US	50223242	R3IRJ6Y0ISEA1G	0824954890	914452424	Miss Fiona's Stupendous Pumpkin Pies	Books	4	3	5	N	N	(4+) Where was Miss Fiona When I Was a Kid?	Since children are always especially entranced while listening to a story about a character who shares their name, when we learned of this book we purchased it as a gift to a very young \\"Miss Fiona\\". While it certainly doesn't rise to the really exceptional level of a potential classic, it definitely is an above average story wonderfully complemented by the accompanying color illustrations by Karen Crouch of Miss Fiona and her multitude of cats and pumpkins.  <br /> <br />As the title suggests, this is a cheery Halloween story. Miss Fiona is a very old woman who dresses like a witch and lives \\"past the spooky graveyard...in a big old haunted house\\". However, if she is a witch, she must be related to the Good Witch of the East rather than the Wicked Witch of the West, since her specialty is preparing MISS FIONA\\"S STUPENDOUS PUMPKIN PIECES which she refuses to serve until midnight after all the other houses have been visited by the youngsters for their \\"trick or treat\\". <br /> <br />The mood is upbeat, and the lessons (regarding how incorrect preconceptions can be - Halloween stories don't have to be scary and witches don't have to be bad) are incorporated into the story in a subtly effective way. <br /> <br />The story is told in rough verse with generally rhyming stanza. It certainly would not win any awards in a poetry contest but is a very effective and appealing way of telling this story to its intended audience.  <br /> <br />It is always difficult for me to rate books outside my areas of specialization, particularly books for very young children. (In addition, my knowledge of the subgenre of children's Halloween stories is almost nil.) Nevertheless, based on my extensive reading many years ago of stories to my two daughters as well as my more limited reading of the genre since then, my opinion is that while the illustrations so perfectly fit the story that they might deserve five stars, the story itself and the verse by which it is told combine to produce a composite rating below that level. However, I want to emphasize that this is a story that I believe will be thoroughly enjoyed by the young children to whom it is read and the slightly older beginning readers who can have the pleasure of reading it themselves. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-21
US	50223242	R12EY60HQSSTWR	0316057851	14392564	Lifeguard	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Incredibly Engaging and Totally Unrealistic	This story is an excellent example of the attributes which have won James Patterson a loyal following of readers and continually placed  his books on the best seller lists. The action is almost continuous and very fast paced; the central characters are frequently in extreme danger; and the plot has enough twists to maintain the reader's interest. In addition, the incredibly short chapters (120 chapters in this 393 page book which includes lots of blank space) draw the reader relentlessly and deceptively along and make it a perfect book whether the reader intends to read it in short stretches on a commuter train, during a few hour flight or on the beach during vacation. Of course, it also suffers from the typical Patterson shortcomings when he writes for this genre (as compared with the deeply emotional SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS or SAM'S LETTERS TO JENNIFER). With the exception of Ned Kelly, the first person narrator, there is no significant character development; furthermore, when the reader takes time to reflect upon the storyline, a few segments are totally unrealistic even within the plot constraints. Finally, one of the primary reasons for my four star rating despite my enjoyment is that Patterson and his co-author Andrew Gross several times use the  incredibly annoying device of playing games with the reader by purposely withholding information from the reader (either knowledge which Ned Kelly possesses or the identity of characters whose actions are detailed but who are referred to only by their descriptive nicknames such as Ponytail). <br /> <br />This review will only briefly describe the storyline because the plot outline is simplicity itself and I cannot provide any significant details without including spoilers. Ned Kelly meets the beautiful Tess McAuliffe on a Florida Beach where he has become a LIFEGUARD after leaving his hometown Boston and former job as a teacher (for reasons which are gradually revealed and integral to the story). They soon are inbed together in her first class hotel room; he fantasizes that the $5 Million score in which his cousin Mickey has included him will allow him to actually have a chance of spending his life with this girl of his dreams. However, things go incredibly wrong for everyone concerned. Confused, shocked and feeling sabotaged,   Ned is on the run away from Florida and the FBI and back to the answers which he hopes he might unearth from family and friends in Boston.  <br /> <br />In Part Two we meet Ellie Shurtleff, a young FBI agent brought into the case due to her expertise as the new head of the Art Theft and Fraud department for South Florida. Ellie's superiors soon conclude that she is too inexperienced to trust her judgment, but Ned gradually comes to believe that despite the obvious difficulties involved in sharing information with her, that may be the only way to discover the truth and clear himself. At this point, the story shifts to third person narration primarily from Ellie's perspective, and this literary device is one of the methods which I mentioned which is used to selectively manipulate ther reader. <br /> <br />Murders continue to occur, and eventually practically everyone who Ned cares about will be dead -if not murdered then from some combination of illness and old age. As Ned continues on the run, it soon becomes clear that not only will he be totally unsuccessful at being a  LIFEGUARD for anyone else under these circumstances, but even his ability to save himself is increasingly in doubt. (The comments by some reviewers concerning the inappropriateness of the title miss this double entendre.) For a while it appears that the best outcome for Ned might be just staying alive and ahead of his pursuers long enough to reach safety, avenge Mickey and receive a long prison term. Meanwhile, Ned's misadventures are interspersed with Ellie's travails given the interplay with her superiors and her aggravation of the powerful and rich Palm Beach businessman who isthe victim of the art theft. <br /> <br />There were a few elements about this story which I particularly enjoyed. First, Sollie Roth, whose character and background deserved more elaboration given the crucial role which he played. Second the bit part played by Ned's friend Champ, a truly outrageous individual who made danger seem like fun. Third, the way the background information concerning the art was included in the story. Finally, the epilogue, which provided an almost perfect conclusion and wrapped up the loose ends. <br /> <br />In summary, LIFEGUARD is a good summer read that is worth the very limited time which it will take you to complete it. It compares favorably with the other three books on which Patterson and Gross have collaborated, although my favorite remains THE JESTER due to their success in utilizing their usual format and techniques to create a work of \\"light historical fiction\\". <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-08-21
US	50223242	RGTWTS6EGA5ZV	0060596341	673057512	Blood of Angels: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	(4 1/2) Another Compelling Story by an Excellent Storyteller	This is the third book by REED ARVIN which I have read, and the third which I have rated five stars.  The author is an excellent storyteller; what I feel differentiates his books from the standard thrillers are the complexity of the plots and the extensive character development of the key participants in his stories. His previous two books (I have not read his first) also raise significant philosophical issues as well.  <br /> <br />BLOOD OF ANGELS has a much more straightforward storyline than his two other books which I have read, and in my opinion is marginally less enjoyable. But the themes are so different that I suspect many readers may not share my opinion. In fact, readers who enjoy a more linear story and also speedreaders for whom nuances are less important may actually find this book the most enjoyable of the three. Another differentiating factor in this book is the importance of the locale in which the story is set and Arvin's choice of the town where he lives, Nashville, TN. The details utilized in the construction of this story, including the regional political climate, the local neighborhoods (especially the juxtaposition of the Nations and Tennessee Village), the nature of the sanctuary of The Downtown Presbyterian Church, and the central role of the \\"lost boys of the Sudan\\" all lend an aura of reality to it. The author has such detailed knowledge of the area that he has created what I call \\"reality based fiction\\"; the real people and places which comprise the background of the story lend it sufficient authenticity so that the reader feels much of it is not beyond the realm of possibility despite the fact is not based on an actual series of events. <br /> <br />There are several intertwined threads to this story; a full description would both be beyond the scope of this review and also impossible without spoilers. The central character is Thomas Dennehy, an Assistant District Attorney in Davidson County, TN whose life is about to be completely disrupted by the intersection two seemingly unrelated cases. Almost immediately, Dennehy and his associates in the DA's office are notified by Georgetown University Professor and death penalty opponent Phillip Buchanan that a prison inmate named Charles Bridges has just confessed to a murder for which they convicted Wilson Owens and then successfully argued for the imposition of the death penalty. Since Owens has already been executed, Dennehy suddenly starts \\"to seriously pay attention. The fact that my life is about to change is vaguely announcing itself now, a light humming in my synapses.\\"   He gradually comes to believe that it is quite possible that he will have the notoriety of becoming the prosecutor on the first case where an innocent man actually was executed. <br /> <br />Coincident with the investigation into Bridges' claims, Dennehy is the lead prosecutor in another potential death penalty case. Moses Bol, a Sudanese refugee living in Tennessee Village (largely populated by immigrants) is accused of the brutal murder of a white woman from the neighboring Nations enclave (a bastion of lower class whites). The juxtaposition of the two cases causes a national media spotlight to be focused on Nashville; inevitably protests are mounted and violence erupts. As in Arvin's previous novels, interwoven with these storylines is the complex personal story of Dennehy himself. While facing perhaps the greatest challenge of his life, his is also attempting to deal with the price which his professional career has led him to pay in terms of his failed marriage and his strained relationship with his young daughter. <br /> <br />This is both an action and a psychological thriller; however, lovers of legal thrillers should be aware that the actual courtroom scenes are almost non-existent. BLOOD OF ANGELS is not about legal maneuvering, but rather concerns a a search for the truth as the upcoming trial of Moses Bol is enveloped by the shadow cast by the long-ago trial verdict that eventually led to the execution of Wilson Owens. The lives of several of the central characters including members of the DA's office are impacted during the course of the story as further assaults and additional murders occur. <br /> <br />This is not only a thriller, but a story where morality and religion and their role in the complex choices which individuals face are central to the plot. While the story utilizes the backdrop of powerful forces arrayed against each other in the debate concerning the morality of capital punishment, the reader is never subjected to either preaching  or propaganda regarding a specific viewpoint (as was the case with the film THE LIFE OF DAVID GALE and so often detracts from my enjoyment of death penalty stories). This is rather a fast moving thriller which also features the intense impact which these cases have on Dennehy's personal life. <br /> <br />As mentioned earlier, It is difficult to compare Arvin's three books which I have read,  I thoroughly enjoyed all three. THE LAST GOODBYE (review 2/17/2004) was the most complex plot but had a somewhat more standard storyline and was much less an investigation of complex societal and moral issues. Due to its philosophical undercurrent as well as the story's complexity, my favorite is definitely THE WILL (review 7/19/20040: however, the more overtly religious theme of certain segments of this story (while never \\"preachy\\") might not appeal to some readers. If you appreciate good story telling you will probably want to read all three regardless of which one you read first, and they are all completely standalone novels.  <br /> <br />One final note: the publisher is to be congratulated for its pricing strategy with this book. I hope that what I assume is an experiment to determine if a lower price would attract more readers to Arvin's fiction succeeds. This is one of the real bargains to be found in a world where so much fiction is overpriced given the frequent short length of novels andthe waste of space with chapter breaks every few pages, blank facing pages and overly large type. Finally, a book where I felt that I got more than my money's worth.  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-08-04
US	50223242	R39H31KNO5YHT	039915289X	197843346	Origin in Death	Books	5	4	8	N	N	(4 1/2) Lessons in the Meaning of Family for Eve and Roarke	WARNING: Many reviews and in my opinion even the bookjacket itself contain significant spoilers. Fortunately, I did not read these until after I had completed the story. Since I believe that such knowledge would have detracted from my enjoyment, this review contains NO SPOILERS. <br /> <br />\\"Death smiled at her, and kissed her gently on the check. He had nice eyes...The father was always nice, just like he was now, when he sat beside her, holding her hand.\\" Immediately upon reading these sentences in the brief prologue of J.D. Robb's newest entry in the   --- IN DEATH series, the reader senses that this book may contain one of the most unnerving storylines in the series. Not in the sense of terrifying or weird, but in the sense of creepiness as Eve Dallas and her associates are forced to confront basic philosophical questions concerning the meaning and order of life itself. <br /> <br />This book remains true to the series storyline, which is centered on NY Police Lieutenant Eve Dallas and combines the standard police procedural format with the futuristic crime solving methodology available to a detective operating in the year 2059.  As is standard, Eve's police partner Peabody and her new cohab McNabb; Feeney from the EDD (Electronic Detectives Division); the police psychologist Dr. Mira; Eve's husband Roarke; Summerset, Roarke's savior and now personal assistant and Eve's nemesis; and the usual varied assortment of droids all have significant roles to play in the story. Of course, there are the moments when some aspect of the case invariably cause Eve's tortured past to intrude upon the present. And concomitantly, as readers have come to expect there are also the interludes where Roarke's passion affords her the comfort, escape and refuge she needs to overcome her emotional turmoil.  <br /> <br />The previous book in the series, SURVIVOR IN DEATH (review 3/30/2005), was a relatively standard straightforward thriller and police procedural which caused Eve tremendous personal distress and cast her in a relatively unsympathetic light with regard to the treatment of young NIxie Swisher and her relations with Roarke and Summerset. However, it did not raise any profound ethical issues or cause her confront significant moral dilemmas. In contrast, this story uses the case which is unexpectedly thrust upon Eve and Peabody both to force Eve to confront moral and ethical questions which are made more difficult due to Eve's  personal background and also to thrust upon her the recognition that there is sometimes no good solution - rather all that an individual can accomplish is to try to right as many wrongs as possible, avoid further tragedy, and protect the innocent to the extent possible. The result of this case is to humanize Eve in a manner which provides hope for the future despite the incredibly tragic nature of the case, in contrast to the personal despair which resulted from the SURVIVOR installment of the series.   <br /> <br />Unfortunately, as mentioned above it is impossible to discuss this story in any detail without providing spoilers. The story begins with Eve and Peabody investigating a celebrity murder committed by Lee-Lee Ten, popular vid star. She had stabbed the \\"hunk of the year\\" Bryhern Speegal and the bloody scene and method of death bring back to Eve the scene of her father's death amid the \\"rivers of blood\\" that resulted from his numerous knife wounds. Lee-Lee is recuperating  from Bryhern's severe beating at the Wilfred B. Icove Center for Reconstructive Surgery; after examining the scene and questioning the Lee-Lee,  Eve and Peabody decide it is clearly a case of self-defense and prepare to return to police HQ and close the case. However, they are summoned to the office of the Center's founder by his son and namesake, to find Dr. Icove, Sr. dead of a single scapel wound to his heart. His friends and colleagues, the Center's staff, and the community at large are devastated given Icove's reputation as a selfless individual so devoted to his work and family that in fact he is known as \\"Dr. Perfect\\". However, Eve knows that appearances can be deceiving, including the security video of his last known appointment and apparent murderer. Additional violence soon occurs, and before long evidence is uncovered which involves Eve in one of the most psychologically stressful cases of her career. in addition, she realizes that she may be in a race against time to avoid  disastrous consequences for many other potential victims.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed this book much more than the previous volume, but cannot compare it with the earlier volumes which I have not yet had time to read. The humor was excellent and interspersed judiciously to lessen the tension and lighten what is essentially a very depressing although thought-provoking story. I especially liked the philosophical overlay and how it interacted with Eve's background story. In addition, this is certainly a book which works well as a standalone story, although it might take a new reader a liitle while to pick up on some of the future technology. Nevertheless, there are three reasons why I reduced my rating from a full five stars. First, even on its terms and understanding that the setting in the future allows for further scientific advances, the plot details stretched my credulity. Second, while the details are extremely clever and make for a good story, it is relatively inconceivable that this complicated a conspiracy could have remained secret for so long. Third, this is simply an interesting twist on a basic plot device that has already been well explored by other authors because of the interesting moral questions involved. Two such earlier novels which I enjoyed were THE THIRD TWIN by Ken Follett and THE GENESIS CODE by John Case.   <br /> <br />In summary, ORIGIN IN DEATH is well worth your time if you are a reader inclined to take the time to read a detective story which is much more a look into the deepest recesses of the human psyche than a standard police procedural. Just remember, to enjoy this book you will have to read it thoroughly; if you choose to just flip through the pages rapidly to follow the plot, you will miss the essence of this story and should instead read SURVIVOR IN DEATH instead.  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-07-26
US	50223242	R2UANXVMDXQ66A	0743250354	196258184	Hark!: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	For 87h Precinct Fans, Not First Time Readers	HARK! All fans of the 87th Precinct series by Ed McBain (the alter ego adopted by Evan Hunter to distinguish this series from his supposedly more serious mainstream literary efforts) will be both delighted and saddened by this latest addition to the series.  <br /> <br />The reader's delight will stem in general from the fact that this story remains true to the essence of the series but especially from the fact that The Deaf Man, one of the most erudite and clever opponents which Steve Carella and his fellow cops have ever faced, returns to challenge them once again after his presumed death years ago. The cops of the 87th Precinct, who - together with their families and their romantic interests - people the basic storyline of each novel and provide the familiarity and continuity which long time readers of the series so treasure, continue to experience the complications of their personal relationships. Sharyn Cooke and Bert Kling head for personal conflict, Honey Blair and Cotton Hawes have the stress of a new friendship compounded by the complications of a case which finds them with opposing interests, Steve Carella tries to overcome the distraction of his negativity towards the upcoming weddings of his mother and sister, and finally Fat Ollie Weeks not only continues to be enchanted by fellow cop Patricia Gomez but also in a bizarre twist of fate Ollie also suddenly receives news which revives his hope of recovering the stolen and apparently irretrievably lost sole copy of the manuscript of his novel, REPORT TO THE COMMISSIONER.  <br /> <br />The reader's sadness and deep regret will stem from the knowledge that McBain's recent death means that the series is about to end after any completed sequels are published posthumously; his faithful readers will now have to be content with rereading their favorite entries in the series or finally having time to catch up on some of the unread volumes among the fifty-four 87th Precinct novels published during a span of almost fifty years. We will also have to live with our lingering uncertainty as to the fate of The Deaf Man, and will never know whether he once again would have been resurrected from a near brush with death as he has been for purposes of this story. <br /> <br />The story begins with a murder, as many police procedurals do. Soon thereafter, a cryptic note is delivered by messenger to Carella, and several others follow rapidly thereafter. Even the name of the communicant presents the detectives with a mystery; as they puzzle over the weirdness of the messages, the unrecognized references and the apparent misspellings, despite their increasing frustration they recognize that they are being taunted by the murderer. As they start to unravel the meaning and source of the earlier notes, additional complications arise from later communications. It seems that they are always several steps behind the murderer and the future crimes which he seemingly is planning.  Eventually, even after they realize that HARK! The Deaf Man has returned! they cannot locate him or identify his future crime. The reader is treated to the fun of trying to unravel the messages which are stymieing Carella and his associates; a knowledge of Shakespeare and an ability to solve anagrams will be very helpful in this effort. This book should especially appeal to readers who like word puzzles. Through such devices McBain has managed to keep the series fresh and interesting, just as he did through combining THE FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH with the pop music scene in the previous installment. <br /> <br />This is much more a book to savor than many of the novels in the series, not only because we know we will soon never meet these characters again, but also because the complexity of the problems presented by the notes mean that a lot of the enjoyment is in the details which speed readers will miss.  Two warnings are appropriate. First, as in many novels of this genre and even more than usual in this series, there is a great deal of VULGAR LANGUAGE and profanity. Second, despite the fact that this book is arguably one of the best in the series, A FIRST TIME READER WILL NOT POSSESS SUFFICIENT CONTEXT TO MAKE THIS A FIVE STAR READ rather than just another clever police procedural. <br />   <br />Thus, despite the fact that the last few entries in the series veered away from McBain's use of titles which by themselves were usually evocative of subject matter likely to be appropriate for a police procedural (beginning in 1956 with COP HATER and spanning such stories as POISON, ICE, HEAT, DOLL, BIG BAD CITY and LADY KILLER), he managed to make this story as entertaining as the many earlier entries in this continuing police drama with its ensemble cast. As would be expected, the writers for many of the recent book and TV series have adopted new methodologies, whether it is the scientific approach of crime scene investigation or the integration of legal thrillers and courtroom drama with detective work. Nevertheless, HARK proves beyond a doubt that old fashioned detective stories, relatively brief and uncomplicated, still have to ability to provide their readers with great entertainment. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-07-23
US	50223242	R1I3EN5KBISARD	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Insights Most Needed by the People Who Won't Read This Book	Harry G. Frankfurt, the author of this slight but thought provoking book, is a Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Princeton University and a renowned moral philosopher. This is a serious discussion regarding the fact that bull---- occupies such a central role in much of the discourse which occurs in practically all facets of our culture, yet to the author's apparent chagrin this phenomenom \\"has not aroused much deliberate concern, nor attracted much sustained inquiry\\". His goal is no less audacious than than \\"to begin the development of a theoretical undestanding of bull----, mainly by providing some tentative and exploratory philosophical analysis\\". In my opinion, this discussion admirably achieves that goal; it also provides wonderful insights into modern day communication. But do not be mislead by the title, while very interesting and quite enjoyable, this discussion is neither light reading nor lighthearted in nature. <br /> <br />This book has three distinct attributes which I am certain in combination (and probably individually as well) make it unique among volumes which have appeared on the adult non-fiction best seller lists. First, the above mentioned fact that its author is a  Philosophy Professor at Princeton University. Second, that it is published by the Princeton University Press, a definite indication that this is indeed a serious scholarly work. Third, that the complete text is only sixty-seven mini-pages in length. Thus, this is in fact only a moderately long essay undoubtedly meant to provoke both debate and further thought.  <br /> <br />There are four elements of Frankfurt's analysis, and while they are largely sequential they do intersect somewhat with each other.. First he proceeds to attempt to provide some sort of definition  of bull----,  or at least to give his readers an understanding of what he means by the term. Second, he examines why there is so much of it. Third, he outlines what functions it serves. Finally and most importantly, hediscusses why \\"we lack a conscientiously developed appreciation of what it means to us\\". <br /> <br />This book should be viewed as a relatively concise introductory volume to the exploration of Frankfurt's radical conclusion that the proliferation of bull---- today is because the notion of honesty and truth has been replaced by a belief in the importance of sincerity and this itself is bull----. My only complaint was that in a few places his discussions of the historical linguistic background of the term seemed a little tedious, but by the conclusion of the discussion I realized that the time spent integrating the historical and descriptive linguistic discussions was indicatve of his academic mode of inquiry and helped buttress his conclusion. <br /> <br />I strongly recommend this thought-provoking essay if you are interested in a possible explanation of why the proliferation of conversation in our culture today (think cell phones, reality TV, talk radio, and over five hundred channels) has combined with the need for \\"instant expertise\\" and focus on supposed transparency to supply us instead with a plethora of bull---- artists who are constantly painting beautiful pictures which unfortunately have only a tangential connection to reality.  <br /> <br />While the author's  understandably discussion proceeds in very broad generalities, I would like to suggest three groups who would be very well served to read this book in order to gain an understanding of why they are held in such low esteem. Undoubtedly, both the politicians and business leaders to whom it so broadly applies will be too busy to take the brief amount of time necessary to study it. In any case, they would  probably would not absorb its implications and recognize its applicability to many of their statements even if they did take the time o read it. Most interestingly, it seems to me that this book is implicitly a very strong indictment of a major segment and perhaps even the majority of Frankfurt's colleagues in academia and their embrace of both deconstructionism and the politics of personal sincerity. He seemingly attacks the professional skepticism rampant on so many campuses, embraces the concept of honesty and rejects the \\"sincere bull----\\" so much in vogue today. THREE CHEERS FOR PROFESSOR FRANKFURT, and his willingness to examine the nature and the weaknesses of the relativism and the lack of concern for the truth which dominate so much of our discourse today. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-07-18
US	50223242	RQNUXZNLTQF1L	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	2	4	N	N	What Do Christo and Terry Schiavo Have In Common?	The artist Christo, whose recent exhibit THE GATES (in NYC's Central Park) created so much attention and resultant debate and conversation, undoubtedly provided the author with the initial inspiration for Valis, the artist constructing a huge and controversial Art deco mural in Vineland Hills, Colorado which is to be destroyed in an act of wonderful symbolism on the day which the new resort which it promotes will open for business. Similarly, Terry Schiavo, the Florida woman whose long term coma also provoked intense debate regarding the removal of her feeding tube, will inevitably be seen as the model for Barbara Mandel, who is one of the central characters in this engrossing thriller despite being in a coma and also kept alive by means of a feeding tube during the entire novel. However, by the end of the tale despite the many similarities to their models which Valis and Barbara evoke, the superficial nature of these seeming resemblances will have been revealed. <br /> <br />WARNING: This book involves the type of gruesome murders, perverted characters and scenes of pain and violence which would normally result in my lowering my rating and significantly detract from my enjoyment of this book. Since I do not normally enjoy literature with such characteristics, the bookjacket summary and a few of the reviews I read caused me to hesitate before purchasing this novel. And if such scenes truly upset you, you might not want to read this story. I decided to read it based on my respect for the author's skills as displayed in the few of his earlier works which I have read and enjoyed immensely. I have chosen to rate it a full five stars despite these elements because they are never sensationalized but are detailed only to the extent that they are essential to the plot, they did not meaningfully detract from my enjoyment although a few briefly caused feelings of intense revulsion. The story was totally riveting and incredibly well constructed with wonderful insights concerning the results of our decisions when confronted with the alternatives which all of us face during crucial moments in our lives, and most importantly against all odds it ended on a  paradoxical note of hope in the face of the seemingly overwhelming inevitability of despair. <br /> <br />Anyone who has read anything about this book or seen the bookjacket knows the derivation of the title of Part One, THE CHOICE IS YOURS. We immediately meet Billy Wiles, the bartender at the Tavern with no other name in Vineland Hills and find him immersed in the type of bizarre conversation so typical of Koontz' work. And before chapter one ends, Billy has discovered on his automobile's windshield the following note: <br /> <br />\\"If you don't take this note to the police and get them involved, I will kill a lovely blond schoolteacher somewhere in Napa County. <br />\\"If you do take this note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman active in charity work. <br />\\"You have six hours to decide. The choice is yours.\\" <br /> <br />Of course, Billy's choice (or perhaps his recognition that the lack of a choice in itself becomes a choice) soon sets in motion an increasingly terrifying chain of events which quickly escalate from simple horror, to fearful anticipation, to intense dread to the pain implied by the title of Part Two, ARE YOU PREPARED FOR YOUR SECOND WOUND? By then Billy realizes that he will undoubtedly carry the physical and psychological pain which is occurring (in a pattern of escalating VELOCITY) with him for not only the remainder of this story but undoubtedly for the rest of his life if he does indeed survive the actions of the sociopath who seems to have him overmatched. <br /> <br />During the early chapters of this story, the reader is puzzled by two unexplained mysteries which clearly will figure in the eventual conclusion to the story. First, what is the cause of the coma which Billy's fiancee Barbara Mandrel entered four years ago and what is the meaning ofher totally understandable yet seemingly incomprehensible utterances which Billy so faithfully chronicles. Second, what is the terrifying event which occurred twenty years ago in the life of the then fourteen year old Billy Wiles which has seemingly left a deep scar upon his soul and is the source of continued hostility between him and Sheriff John Palmer. These questions are answered gradually as the story unfolds in a manner which is both consistent with the tale and at moments which provide maximum impact. <br /> <br />Billy's initial involvement as an unwilling participant in the unfolding drama and his struggles to avoid entanglement in this deadly game whose goals and rules he does not understand only result in his life seemingly becoming totally enmeshed with his tormentor; he is the proverbial creature struggling in a spiderweb from which there is seemingly no escape. By the time the story reaches it climax in Part Three, Billy realizes that ALL YOU HAVE IS HOW YOU LIVE, and that the reclusive tendencies which have been the result of the two great tragedies in his life are no longer an option if he is to have any chance of saving not only himself but Barbara. <br /> <br />One intriguing aspect of this story which distinguished it from the other books by Koontz which I have read is that there is no reliance on anything overtly supernatural nor even any extra-scientific unexplained phenomena. Admittedly the mysterious haruspex Ivy Elgin is the type of character who has appeared in other Koontz books and who seem to inhabit a universe marginally different from our world, but her interaction with Billy at a crucial moment in his life is only to provide perspective  not only regarding his current dilemma but also concerning his relationships with the key figures in his life.  <br /> <br />This is a superbly constructed story, and the integration of art and particularly literature is indeed masterful and by its completion had added considerably to my enjoyment. It asks profound questions concerning human nature and attempts to provide meaningful insights into the role of hope, caring, and indeed life and death themselves. The actions of the villian are truly appalling, and the chilling intensity of this macabre tale kept me totally involved. In fact, the nature of the narrative was such that my \\"eureka moment\\" regarding an insight into the actions of the killer or identity of his next victim often occured simultaneously with Billy's revelation, I seldom anticipated his insights but also did not often need him to detail their reasons. While I highly recommend this book for the reasons discussed in this review,  the hideous nature of the sociopath with whom Billy struggles kept if from being as enjoyable as LIFE EXPECTANCY, although it is both more complex and much more thought provoking. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-07-14
US	50223242	R28VW2ECL6HW8D	034546706X	339969379	Rage (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Wrong Turns and Dead Ends	Segments of this book were absolutely riveting and the plot definitely deserves five stars; yet there were enough discordant notes that I did not enjoy it as much as either THERAPY, the  Alex Delaware book published last year or Kellerman's most recent novel TWISTED. After briefly summarizing the plot and the storyline, the remainder of this review will describe the reasons for my ambivalent reaction to this tale of psychological and physical trauma, sadness, wasted lives, despair and the resultant RAGE and outrage which were the ultimate result.  <br /> <br />The story begins with Alex expecting to relax given the coincidence of a diminution in his caseload and the fact that his new romantic interest Allison is visiting her grandmother in Connecticut. His plans are irretrievably altered by the end of the first page of this novel when he decides to answer his business phone rather than follow his usual practice of letting his service pick up.  He does not recognize the voice which speaks his name, but as soon as the caller identifies himself as \\"Rand\\" the realization dawns upon Alex  that it is Rand Duchay, a disturbed thirteen year-old whom Alex had last seen eight years ago in connection with the senseless murder of twenty-five month old Kristal Malley. However, Rand now speaks with the \\"man's baritone' of the twenty-one year old  who has just been released after serving  eight years of his twelve year sentence in the facilities of the C.Y.A. (California Youth Authority). Rand needs to talk \\"for real\\" about Kristal; before Alex can hang up after elicting Rand's location and agreeing to meet him, Rand declares\\"I am not a bad person\\", a declaration that will influence Alex's actions repeatedly during the course of this story . The next nine chapters and almost twenty percent of the novel are devoted to an extended and detailed flashback which consists of Alex's recollections of the long forgotten and truly tragic case, his reluctant involvement in it at the requestof the presiding judge Tom Laskin, and his impressions of Rand and his sociopathic partner Troy Turner. The flashback concludes with Alex's remembrance of his conversation with Judge Laskin concerning the murder of Troy Turner shortly after he was sentenced as a youthful offender and their conclusion that there may be some problems for which there are no good solutions. Even at this early stage of the story, it is clear that this book will provide a forum for the author to espouse his views regarding youthful criminals, the shortcomings of the Department of Social Services, and the seemingly hopeless and intractable problems which often result from the combination of poverty and childhood neglect.  <br /> <br />When we return to the present, Alex leaves for Westwood to meet Rand, who never keeps his appointment with Alex. While subsequently informing series regular Detective Milo Sturgis that he'll be spending a few days with Allison in NYC, Alex decides to discuss Rand's call and the od case with Milo. Then, as Alex prepares to leave, an unidentified body with Alex's telephone number stuffed into the jean's pocket is discovered dumped next to a freeway ramp in Bel Air. When the body is identified as Rand, Alex and Milo sysyematically retrace Rand's steps since his releases and review the eight year old case in typical police procedural fashion. Soon disturbing questions arise concerning the subsequent deaths and disappearances of other individuals involved in the lives of Rand, Troy and Kristal. This is a story filled with strange individuals and twisted and ruined lives lived on the fringes of society. As the investigation proceeds, Alex and Milo continually change their theory of the case. While their confusion at times is understandable given the nature of the evidence and the misdirection provided by some of the individuals involved who are trying to hide old secrets, they often seemed to unnecessarily and prematurely jump to unwarranted conclusions. This became increasingly frustrating and was more reminiscenta deadly earnest version of The Keystone Cops than the usual deliberative police procedural. It also was totally unnecesssary because the combination of a clever plot, interesting characters, enlightening psychological discussions, and obviously heartfelt insights and commentary concerning the foster care system were more than enough to make this a worthwhile read. <br /> <br />In addition to the above observation, my major complaint is the very abrupt conclusion, which left several questions unanswered which unfortunately I cannot discuss without providing spoilers.  For some reason, once the mystery of the real murderer had been resolved the author decided to simply conclude the story in a summary and particularly violent manner with no explanation concerning either the means by which the final outcome (which did arguably achiev some measure of rough justice) was accomplished. Neither was there any meaningful o closure for any of the other participants or the reader. This lack of an epilogue seemed very inappropriate given the importance of the psychological development of the characters as a crucial aspect of this story. The insights are developed, the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle are finally assembled, and then the reader is never provided any answers to the many of the questions which remain concerning how to view the completed picture.  <br /> <br />So, be prepared for a story which embodies many of the elements which have won Kellerman his many fans and which contains perhaps more complexities than usual. Alex and Milo seem to be constantly taking wrong turns and arriving at dead ends, the puzzle representing the case is solved but the satisfactory closure regarding the surviving characters which is present in some of Kellerman's previous books is missing; this fact is compounded by hints that Milo's and Alex's lives may be subject to futher upheaval in the next series installment. In summary, RAGE is recommended for fans of the series who will undoubtedly enjoy the usual suspense and the realistic psychological details which result from the expertise which Kellerman has gained as a clinical psychologist; nevertheless, this troubling story is likely to leave the reader with feelings of both distress and incompleteness. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-07-09
US	50223242	R18F7S9XMZN7XR	0385336683	516019731	One Shot (Jack Reacher, No. 9)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	(5+) What Links Jack Reacher, Bobby Richardson and Joe Gordon?	As my rating indicates, I found this thriller by Lee Child to be not only extremely compelling as the story rushed towards its crescendo, but also extraordinarily enjoyable as well. The factor that most differentiated ONE SHOT from the majority of other thrillers was the author's wonderful use of seemingly minor details to bring his central character Jack Reacher (and a few of the other characters as seen through Reacher's eyes) into extremely sharp focus for me as a reader. This is the first novel by Lee Childs which I have read, so I cannot compare to the previous eight entries in the series. Instead, I will have to leave it to Child's fans to comment upon whether the formula has gotten stale and repetitive for readers of the series; on the other hand maybe the author has gradually improved as he has honed his skills and perhaps I happen to stumble upon the volume which represents his arrival into the circle of the superior writers of this genre. In any event, this novel is very engrossing on a standalone basis as a ONE SHOT read; during the course of the story the author certainly inserts the necessary background material concerning Reacher's past to provide sufficient context for a reader to fully understand the context of Reacher's actions. There is no tedious detail, it is simply worked into the story; I also appreciated the lack of  references to past exploits which can so frequently frustrate readers who attempt to read a recent entry in a long running series with which they are unfamiliar. While I applaud the author for this feature, it is also made easier for him to accomplish by the fact that Jack Reacher is a man who lives off the grid - in effect a man with no face, no forwarding address, and seemingly a man who has effectively ceased to exist. To paraphrase his comment to the detective who doesn't believe his alibi, maybe he really is Joe Gordon. (Yes baseball fans, that is the Joe Gordon who you think it is.) <br /> <br />The storyline is simplicity itself. A typical Midwestern city in the heartland of Indiana is briefly plunged into chaos when a sniper fires six shots into the crowd exiting a city plaza during the evening rush hour. However the panic is defused when incredibly thorough and very speedy police work by the crime scene investigators allow them to arrest a suspect (James Barr) within hours of the deaths of the five victims of the apparently deranged gunman. The police believe that the case is ironclad; Barr won't say anything until his sister Rosemary finds a lawyer to represent him. He then utters two brief sentences \\"They got the wrong guy\\" and \\"Get Jack Reacher for me\\". While his request provides insurmountable difficulties for the defense team since they cannot even determine who Reacher is, Reacher fortuitously learns of the events in downtown \\"heartland city, Indiana\\" and heads there not to help Barr but with the intent of making sure that he is convicted of the horrible crime of which he is accused. Imagine how shocked he is when he arrives there and discovers that Barr has requested his presence despite the knowledge which he possesses concerning the highly classified secrets of Barr's past. However, he becomes suspicious when it becomes clear that the rush to arrest someone for the crime has left several inconsistencies despite the supposedly airtight case. The more he learns, the more these questions gnaw at him. Thus, he decides to briefly stsay around and work in the shadows alongside Barr's young and inexperienced new counsel (hired after Rosemary realized that her brother's original lawyer was interested in a quick disposition of the case rather than defending her brother). An interesting twist is that Barr's new lawyer is Helen Rodin, the daughter of DA Alex Rodin, whose caution in choosing which cases to try means that he has never lost a major prosecution which he has undertaken. Reacher gradually begins to unravel the complexities surrounding the supposedly random shootings; then his shadowy opponents  manage to limit his flexibility by diverting him from Barr's case through the need to prove himself innocent of a heinous crime of which he is soon accused. <br /> <br />Most of the character development is limited to the extent needed to make the story internally consistent, but the major villains (Linsky and the Zec) certainly are interesting and the characters of Gunny Cash (who was featured in a small but essential part) and Ann Yanni (in a crucial and quite substantial supporting role) were sufficiently developed to be very enjoyable. In fact, the interchange between Reacher and Yanni concerning George Orwell which developed into a brief episode of dueling quotations was one of the unexpected small touches which made this book so enjoyable for me. And long time fans of the series even get to meet an individual from Reacher's Army past, (now) Brigadier General Eileen Hutton, who is one of the links in the chain that might tie former Army sniper Barr to Reacher as well as these shootings. <br /> <br />Is this story realistic? Of course not! Would the series of coincidences combined with Reacher's extraordinary powers and unbelievable investigative ability strain your credulity if you sat back to analyze this book as you were reading it? Of course! In this regard this shares the attributes of all great thrillers, they suck  the reader into the story - the action is so fast paced  and forces of evil opposing the lone hero seem so the powerful that the reader is captivated by the flow of events and his desire to learn how good will triumph in the end and who will have died along the way. The great thing about this book is that it accomplishes its goal while Reacher is still managing to have fun. He attempts to romance his former superior officer, then later he flirts outrageously with Ann Yanni despite the deadly game in progress. His methodology for choosing his identities and the background role of sports in this book will delight all sportsfans and was the touch that caused me to add a plus to my rating of five stars to indicate my total enjoyment of this book,  <br /> <br />So this is a thriller with a superhero as the central character - a police procedural with an investigator of unmatched abilities - and finally an action story detailing how Reacher's hastily assembled army of irregulars (including Ann Yanni and Helen Rodin) supplemented by ex- Marine Gunny Cash fulfill their assigned roles and allow him to execute his fiendishly clever plan for righting the wrongs which have so offended his sense of justice and morality. ONE SHOT hit all the right notes for me, and while may of the nuances which I enjoyed so much may not be quite as appealing to a broad range of readers, I think that most individuals who enjoy this genre will agree that this is a well above average entry in that category. Finally, this is not a book to be skimmed for the plot - both the enjoyment and the genius is in the details. And when you reach the conclusion you will understand the applicability of the title, despite the fact that six shots were fired on that fatal day that set all this Jack Reacher adventure in motion.   <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-06-30
US	50223242	R31VKHWSYHJMDD	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	( 4 1/2) The Chorus of Forgotten Voices	Harry Bosch returns - both to the LAPD and as the lead character in the newest volume of Michael Connelly's detective series! As foreshadowed near the conclusion of THE NARROWS, Harry decides to apply for reinstatement to active duty in the hope that his former partner Kiz Rider is correct in her assessment of the new Police Chief. In the twenty-one pages of the first three chapters Bosch meets the new chief and also Abel Pratt, the officer in charge of the unit where he has been reunited with Kiz Rider as her partner; they will operate as one of the four teams in the renamed Open-Unsolved Unit. The intensity of his superiors convinces him that the renaming of the Cold Case Unit is more than symbolic; instead it is indicative that he may finally have superior officers whose priority is solving crimes and improving police procedures rather than playing politics and turning a blind eye to corruption.  These first few conversations completely set the tone for this novel - I am a Harry Bosch fan that was hooked; you too will immediately know whether this is a book for you. <br /> <br />The next chapter summarizes the seventeen-year-old case which has been assigned to Bosch and Rider because new techniques of DNA analysis have provided a match with trace evidence found on the gun used to murder sixteen-year-old Rebecca Verloren. Her body had been discovered in the woods behind her home two days after the LAPD had mistakenly responded to the missing person report filed by her parents by assuming that she was simply a teenage runaway. As Harry and Kiz review the murder book and retrace the steps of the original detectives, they become aware that additional mistakes were made during the initial investigation. Furthermore, they realize that the DNA evidence on the gun in no way links Roland Mackey, the man who it identifies, to the crime. Thus begins a painstaking police procedural of the type at which the author excels. However, as Pratt warns Bosch, there is a significantdifference when the case is cold and many years have passed -you move slow rather than fast and much of the evidence will be missing. Old cases are emotional, the toll of the violence has accumulted over time. As Harry will soon learn, in this case the impact of the loss of their only child has so devastated Muriel and Robert Verloren that their lives have essentially been destroyed by the events of that day seventeen years ago. Harry soon realizes that the chief's warning to him that there is no such thing as closure epitomizes the situation which he faces here; answers and some measure of justice are the best everyone can hope to finally discover. <br /> <br />The mood that this book evokes is philosophical as Harry often wonders whether he is really prepared to return to the rigors of police work. Despite the changesin the department, not all Harry's enemies are gone and a horrible mistake in judgment causes him to wonder if he is jeopardizing Kiz' career as well as his own. However, his faith remained that \\"he was back in his place now. He was baptized in the waters of the one true church. The church of the blue religion. And he knew that he would find his salvation in those who were long lost, that he would find it in those musty bibles [the city's murder logs] where the dead line up in columns and there ghosts on every page\\". There are echoes in the background of the turbulent times that were the late eighties and early nineties in L.A. and other urban areas; they are a reminder of how much both the city and Bosch have evolved since then. Finally, in a fashion so typical of Michael Connelly there is a tantalizing mention of a minor but memorable character from THE NARROWS; Bosch's reaction to the situation is pitch perfect and a wonderful touch which further humanizes him and reveals his complexity. <br /> <br />This is probably an average police procedural and would only rate slightly more than three stars on that basis. It is the character of Harry Bosch andthe wonderful insights into human nature that are woven into the story for those readers who savor rather than rush through a book which led me to give it what might be a slighly generous five stars. In addition, the final few chapters were excellent and my satisfaction with the appropriateness of the closing twists in both the case and its impact on the LAPD significantly influenced my enjoyment of the story and increased my appreciation of the plot. As Bosch reminds us throughout this book, darkness always comes - and in a story of this type we certainly are aware that a new day will never arrive for some of the story's central characters. Nevertheless, THE CLOSERS eventually close the case; Harry and Kiz are there to support each other at the crucial moments; and Bosch finishes with a renewed commitment to follow the Chief's admonition to never forget that their job is to speak for the dead. <br /> <br />One final note for new readers of this series - this book certainly works as a standalone story, nevertheless I suggest that yo do not begin your introduction to Harry Bosch by reading it. If you understandably are hesitant to undergo the formidable task of reading all fourteen of Connelly's previous books, I suggest that you start with the two immediately preceding volumes,  LOST LIGHT (equally good in my opinion) and THE NARROWS. These provide a lot of background detail concerning the events which have led Bosch to this juncture in his life (including his Vietnam experiences) and made this book more enjoyable for me. And if you don't enjoy those stories then it is unlikely that THE CLOSERS will be of interest to you. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-06-28
US	50223242	R20KDARAX9LCGY	0399152776	340940705	Appaloosa	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A Horse, A Town, Three Men and A Woman	THE HORSE - A gray leopard APPALOOOSA stallion, the leader of a herd that lived in the hills just beyond Randall Bragg's ranch, who symbolizes what Virgil Cole likes about about wild horses. \\"He's free. He's alive. He does what he wants. He goes where he wants. He's got what he wants. And all he got to do is fight for it.\\" <br /> <br />THE TOWN - Also APPALOOSA, a frontier mining town in the old West where the violent scene which opens this novel begins at The Boston House Saloon, the best in town. The die of fate is soon irreversibly cast as a result of the event which occurs at the Circle RB, Randall Bragg's ranch just outside the town limits. <br /> <br />THREE MEN - Everett Hitch, the first person narrator, a West Point graduate (like his father) who decided after five years of soldiering in the Indian Wars that it \\"didn't allow too much expansion of the soul\\" and so turned in his commision and roamed the western territories doing whatever job was available to keep from starving to death. Hitch is one of the best men Virgil Cole has ever seen with an eight-guage shotgun. Virgil Cole was the Marshall in Trinidad when Hitch first met him outside the Rattlesnake Saloon fifteen years ago. The memory of that first time Hitch had seen Cole shoot had stayed clear despite the many gunfights that had followed. \\"Time slowed down for him. He fought with an odd stateliness. Always steady and never fast, but always faster than the man he was fighting.\\" It was there he immediately learned one of Cole's many rules for maintaining order and staying alive - reload as soon as the shooting is over. That day in Trinidad, Hitch becomes Cole's deputy and they are still lawmen for hire fifteen years later when they enter Appaloosa and tell the Aldermen that Cole's and Hitch's rules have to be the law or they will simply ride on. Trouble erupts to force the Aldermen's hand and Cole and Hitch sign on and immediately and face down Randall Bragg, whose men have run roughshod over the towncitizens. Before leaving Bragg declares \\"this town belongs to me. I was here first.\\" By the end of these first few chapters, the reader fully expects that the conflict between the lawman Cole and the villain Bragg will comprise the central theme of this story. <br /> <br />THE WOMAN - However, in the very next chapter, just when the elements of the traditional morality play about frontier justice all seem to be in place,  Allison (Allie) French arrives in town. \\"A little travel-worn but still good-looking\\", she is a widow with only a dollar remaining after breakfast; Cole has Hitch arrange for her to stay at the Boston House and gain employment in the saloon by utilizing her limited skills as a very loud piano player. <br /> <br />This a typical Robert Parker story, short concise chapters, spare dialogue, and a plot with enough interesting twists to keep the reader involved. As Parker's writing style has evolved, he seems to have gradually distilled his books to the essence of the characters and the story. My strong suggestion is that this book should not be skimmed, while such a reading would easily follow the plot, it would eliminate the most enjoyable aspect of the book, the details regarding these interesting characters and their relationships. In any event there is no need to skim it, since in comparison with many modern authors who seem to believe that readers buy their books by the pound and so pad their novels, Appaloosa (as is invarably the case with Parker's novels) is an extremely fast read. The only change for inveterate Parker fans will be their unfamiliarity with these characters. The relationship of Cole and Hitch does bear a strong similarity to that of Spenser and Hawk. At times even the laconic dialogue seems strangely reminiscent of their conversations with the unsaid often more important than the spoken word. However, it is more like the character traits of the heroes of that series have been jumbled and then the pieces reassembled into two verydifferent individuals.   <br /> <br />As the story proceeds, many additional characters are introduced; my favorites are the Shelton Brothers and Hitch's sometime companion and instructor in all aspects of female behavior, Katie Goode. Of course, to complete this story of the Old West some Kiowa Indians play a brief but crucial role. (In fact, if you miss the later explanation of the significance of one of the Indian braves \\"counting coup' on Hitch during their encounter, it's probably an indication that you're just skimming over the details.) We also are treated to many surprising informational tidbits; the reader will probably be as amazed as Hitch when Cole suddenly quotes some advice that we should all remember.from the nineteenth century German strategist Clausewitz regarding the art of war and preparation for your enemies.  <br /> <br />As this tale progressed, I not only came to know Cole and Hitch, but also could also taste the dust in the streets of Appaloosa, listen to Allie's piano playing, and hear the sudden explosion of gunfire during the many shootouts which occurred. My only warning in this five star recommendation is that the characters of Allie and Katie (while undoubtedly typical of the frontier during that period), may offend some ardent feminists. However, I actualy think that this is a misreading of the story, Hitch regards Katie as a friend despite the nature of their relationship; his comments near the end of the book regarding the analogy which he draws between the Appaloosa and Cole (and Allie) implicitly acknowledges the complexity of their actions and emotions.   <br /> <br />In conclusion, I found the ending to be wonderfully appropriate as well as incredibly bittersweet. (If this were a movie, the concluding scene would be extremely emotional and in some ways reminiscent of SHANE.)  With four pages remaining, I still couldn't guess what the outcome would be for the Three Men and a Woman of my review title, with Cole seemingly unable toextricate himself from the internal conflict resulting from his character trait of never backing down being in conflict with his scrupulous adherence to the law as the defining element of his being. Suddenly, we see the true meaning of friendship and indeed love defined and are both heartened and saddened by the knowledge that even as life proceeds the relationships of the individuals remaining alive have been irretrievably altered. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-06-27
US	50223242	R2L5LW3OWM8OJS	0446576670	692371737	The President's Assassin	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	(5-)  The President Will Be Toast In 48 Hours	Are you a Brian Haig/Sean Drummond fan who is wondering if you should read this fifth entry in the series? If so, my answer is an unqualified yes. This book is extremely enjoyable; it includes all the elements which I will discuss later in this review which have hooked me on the series. In the event that you want additional details or a plot summary, read on, although your time might be better spent just ordering the book so that you can start reading it as soon as possible.    On the other hand, if you have never read any of the earlier books, read further to discover why my personal experience leads me to suggest that you do not start with this one. I want to hasten to add, however, that THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSIN certainly works very well as standalone story. I just believe that regardless of what your goals are, it makes sense to read at least some of the earlier books in the series first.    The first book by Brian Haig which I read was THE KINGMAKER; I found it incredibly enjoyable and my only regret was that I had not read the books in the series in the order in which they were written. (My experience is one of the three reasons for my recommendation to first time readers) While it was a great story, the references to Major Drummond's previous experiences and relationships made me wish that I had more than the summary background woven into that narrative. While this is always the dilemma faced by a new reader of a longstanding series, in this case the fact that this is only the fifth book makes it a fairly easy task to start at the beginning. And while the drawback of starting with the first book, SECRET SANCTION, is that it is not as polished a story (a trait shared with many other first time novels), it is still a tight plot which takes advantage of the author's military background while introducing a wonderful character. I also feel that I would have actually enjoyed it more if I had gotten immersed in the series by reading it first. Second, reading the series out of order in at least one case destroys the surprise element (if not shock value) of developments later in the series. Last, if you only want to read one or two of Haig's works (at least initially), my ratings of  both THE KINGMAKER (#3) and MORTAL ALLIES (#2) are a full five stars and thus slightly higher than the five minus which I gave to this story. However, I want to reemphasize that in my opinion you will either enjoy any of Haig's books or find all of them not to your liking.    This plot is really simple and very compelling - six people including the White House Chief of Staff are found methodically murdered and a note has been left which indicates that more murders will be committed and then within two days the \\"President will be history\\". Army Major and JAG lawyer Sean Drummond (the James Bond of the legal profession- except with a better sense of humor and irony) is now working on assignment with a CIA cell called the Office of Special Projects. He is ordered to accompany special FBI Agent Jennifer Margold to observe the scene of the multiple murders. Sean's antennae cause him to make several knowledgeable observations concerning the supposedly secure electronic surveillance at the site, and soon he realizes too late \\"in retrospect, I should have heeded the old warning: Never test the depth of water with both feet.\\" He discovers after he has waded in that he is now not just a CIA observer in case foreign terrorists are involved but has become a full fledged member of the investigative team. The only consolation seems to be that despite her frosty demeanor Agent Margold (eventually to become Jenny) is \\"early to mid-thirties, shoulder-length coppery hair, slender... attractive - not beautiful, more like pretty in an interesting way...light on the makeup, heavy on the bitchiness...eyes...a sort of frosted blue, like chilled cobalt\\". The intrigue is ratcheted up when they discover a shadowy foreign group has supposedly offered a bounty of $100 million dollars for killing the President; subsequently the tension escalates when further murders are committed. Jenny quickly identifies a prime suspect; however, the search for him proves fruitless and Sean attempts to follow other leads as the countdown continues.    The timeline is chronological with historical background information uncovered by the investigators provided as necessary to supplement the plot. The story inexorably races towards the climax; it is unclear who will remain alive, both among the law enforcement team and the country's leaders. Even in such circumstances, however, Drummond remains his wisecracking self, thus managing to frequently defuse the tension for the reader. And best of all, a lot of his asides and throwaway lines are not only really amusing but wonderfully insightful and totally apt. This story involves interesting political and philosophical considerations, but is primarily a psychology casebook involving a lot of fascinating discussion as the team tries to develop helpful insights. Are the strings being pulled by a clever psychopath, or just a team of very competent murderers/blackmailers? While readers may wonder if they are being subject to even more misdirection than the Feds, my conclusion is that the author provided a few fragmentary clues that hinted at the outline of the eventual outcome.     In summary, this is an enjoyable read, a wonderful thriller informed by the knowledge and detail which the author brings to the story.  As is true of all of Haig's books, while the outcome is riveting, there are bittersweet elements to the plot. These stories don't end happily for everyone, even those who remain alive. The intensely emotional nature of the last chapter and especially the final few paragraphs certainly reveal the understandable toll that Sean's exploits have taken on him, and provide a truly poignant counterpoint to the violence and treachery which we have just witnessed. An exciting book, and while it is not quite my favorite of the series I understand how it might become yours.    Tucker Andersen	2005-06-21
US	50223242	R1MWB0D0S4JHXM	0446532436	967980395	True Believer	Books	3	2	5	N	N	(3.5) A Five Star Story Diminished by the Hurried Conclusion	It is indeed unfortunate that after Nicholas Sparks spent so much time constructing a really interesting and nuanced storyline, he utilized it simply as the setup for the conclusion of a true \\"feel good\\" romance, with the final chapter best characterized as five-star schmaltz. Thus, while I realize that some of Sparks' readers will be delighted with a simple love story that eschews the bittersweet nature of much of his work, and I certainly enjoy a well written story examining the mystery of romance, my rating of only three stars reflects my reaction to a plot that had so much unrealized potential. If the author had put a little more effort into providing a conclusion consistent with the earlier complexity of the story and had also provided more closure regarding all the wonderful secondary characters who he made the effort to infuse with life for the reader, he would have made me into a TRUE BELIEVER that his story deserved a full five stars.    The universal question explored by this novel has been asked innumerable times before in story, play and verse - can a young man and woman of very different backgrounds and who have made very different lifestyle choices find enough common ground to experience more than a temporary attraction to each other? In this case specifically -what happens when Jeremy Marsh (a sophisticated and successful young scientific investigative reporter who enjoys life on the Upper West Side of New York City) travels to rural Boone Creek, North Carolina to debunk the supernatural explanation of ghostly lights that recurrently appear in a local cemetery and meets the charming and aloof Lexie Darnell? The setup is leisurely, interesting and complex, and Jeremy is soon drawn into the complex history of the town and finds himself increasingly as intrigued by Lexie as by the mystery which he professionally wants to explain. The inhabitants and their relationships are drawn well enough to make the town come alive, especially Doris McClellan, the aunt who had raised Lexie and whose letter had piqued Jeremy's interest and drawn him to Boone Creek. And while most of the humor is low key, there are a few real laugh-out-loud moments, mostly with regard to Jed, the local taxidermist and proprietor of Greenleaf Cottages, \\"the Museum of Natural history transformed into a horror movie and squeezed into a closet\\". As the novel proceeds, while the threads of the mystery are gradually being unraveled, the background details of Lexie's and Jeremy's previous romantic entanglements and their emotional baggage which remains add depth to the story.    So, what's not to like? There are interesting characters, some humor and a little mystery, to add color to a romantic backdrop. Unfortunately, it is the promise of all these elements which made the abrupt conclusion such a letdown for me. The table was set, a delicious meal served, and then the final course was an overly sweet confection with no substance. In addition, a further minor complaint involved was one major flaw in the rush to conclusion which should have been spotted and corrected by the editors, who were apparently in as much of a hurry to keep to the publishing schedule as was the author. I can't provide details without including a spoiler, but it was disappointing given the attention to detail throughout the rest of the book.     In comparison to Spark's other recent books which I have read, I much preferred this book to THE GUARDIAN (two star review 5/27/2003) but felt that it lacked the spareness, simplicity and emotional power of the excellent NIGHTS IN RODANTHE (four star review 10/24/2002). I also acknowledge that TRUE BELIEVER would make a wonderful movie with the right director and actors. My criticism would be less valid given the visual storytelling nature of that medium; such a goal may well explain Spark's rather summary conclusion. However, I in fact am disappointed by the increasing tendency of authors to shortchange their readers with books which are actually screenplays in disguise and hope that my suspicion is wrong in this case.    Finally, lest you think that my reactions are too ambivalent and criticisms overly harsh, the following statistics provide some indication that other reviewers share my conclusions. There are 81 reviews that have previously posted, certainly enough to provide a valid statistical sample. My observation (admittedly anecdotal) is that in most instances of a fiction bestseller by a popular (and noncontroversial) author, the reviews will be overwhelming favorable. Yet in this case the distribution is almost even, with only a few more five star reviews than the other categories and less than half the reviews being four or five stars. (The totals are 5*-21, 4*-16, 3*-16, 2*-14, 1*-14). Obviously, a lot of readers felt even more disappointed as I was.       Tucker Andersen	2005-06-10
US	50223242	R2CJPSGQNBMKWL	0446612103	601691520	The Up and Comer	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	(3+) The Unintended Consequences of Overconfidence	I discovered Howard Roughan when he co-authored James Patterson's recent book HONEYMOON (4 star review 3/8/2005). Based on my enjoyment of the writing style employed in that novel, I decided to read this earlier work by Roughan. My reaction was very mixed, the writing was excellent (better than four stars) and the story had interesting potential; however, for reasons which are partially personal and I will summarize later the story barely rated two stars in terms of my enjoyment. Thus, my rating is a compromise and a reader with tastes different from mine might react quite differently. (As demonstrated by the fact this book has received ratings from one to five stars.)<br /><br />This is the story of Philip Randall, a true UP AND COMER with a small but prestigious NYC law firm. Philip's beautiful wife Tracy is adored by her very rich daddy, who spares no expense for his daughter including the purchase of the luxurious downtown loft where Philip and Tracy live. Philip is truly on the fast track and also living life in the fast lane. He is smart, motivated and supremely self-confident  - after all, he has always been able to stare down anyone and ad lib his way out of trouble. Thus, while he understands risk and in fact quantifies all his actions on a risk scale of 1 to 10, he can't resist tempting fate by engaging in an ongoing affair with his best friend's wife. They meet whenever possible at a small sidestreet hotel convenient to where they both work; furthermore, they engage in elaborate precautions to avoid ever being seen together in public except when attending events as a foursome with their spouses. However, as the reader undoubtedly expects and Philip should have expected, suddenly their secret is discovered and the risk factor associated with his affair has rises dramatically. Philip is contacted by an extremely dangerous individual, someone from his past with nothing to lose and a belief that successfully blackmailing Philip can both provide him with the means to start over and settle long-held grievances as well. In order not to provide spoilers, I will simply summarize the outcome with the following description - the risk continues to heighten and all the major characters in the story are severely damaged (or worse) by the conclusion.<br /><br />THUS.THIS IS REALLY AN OLD FASHIONED MORALITY PLAY. How the high and mighty have fallen! Play with fire and you will get burned. Pride goeth before a fall.  Do not covet your neighbor's wife.  Take your pick - this combines them all. I liked many aspects of the story; the author's research was good and his phraseology excellent. I work in the same area of midtown NYC which formed the locale for the action, the meetings in Bryant Park and lunches sat the Oyster Bar rang true and imparted authenticity.  Many of the mental asides which we experienced with Philip as the first person narrator were truly enjoyable. And certainly Philip is a composite of many of many of the NYC (superficial) glitterati. Several twists and turns of the plot were quite clever and in a few instances unexpected; several of the minor characters including Jack and Sally Devine were also interestingly drawn. Finally, the very last few pages did provide some brief commentary on the correct priorities in our lives and the possibility of redemption as counterweights to the great majority of the book.<br /><br />A portion of my dislike for this novel is simply due to a misjudgment on my part concerning its nature. I found it tense, disturbing and uncomfortable. I simply had not understood the focus of the drama or how depressing it would be. I also thought that it would be both more plot driven and have a better balance of the ethical and moral dimensions of the characters. If my dislike were purely due to my taste, however, I would not have lowered my rating to three stars. The factor would caused me to downgrade the book was the same factor which caused the story to be the quintessential morality play, theapparent inevitability of the chain of events once set in motion. I found it hard to accept the fact that at a few key decision points in his life Philip would have been so egotistical as to have continued his increasingly reckless conduct when he recognized how greatly the risks had escalated. He didn't have to be able to predict the tragic outcomes which ensued for so many of the participants to realize that his foolishness had become foolhardiness and stupidity. Thus, while I found the story well written enough to finish the book and while the first person narrative helped maintain an immediacy for me as a reader, I became increasingly uninvolved and thus my enjoyment lessened.<br /><br />In summary, this is a well written, thought provoking book which I admired but did really enjoy. The goal of this review has simply been to attempt to provide enough information to help potential readers decide whether it will appeal to them, since it has been both highly praised and panned by others.<br /><br />Tucker Andersenay, the apparent inevitability of the chain of events once set in motion. I found it hard to accept the fact that at a few key decision points in his life Philip would have been so egotistical as to have continued his increasingly reckless conduct when he recognized how greatly the risks had escalated. He didn't have to be able to predict the tragic outcomes which ensued for so many of the participants to realize that his foolishness had become foolhardiness and stupidity. Thus, while I found the story well written enough to finish the book and while the first person narrative helped maintain an immediacy for me as a reader, I became increasingly uninvolved and thus my enjoyment lessened. <br /> <br />In summary, this is a well written, thought provoking book which I admired but did really enjoy. The goal of this review has simply been to attempt to provide enough information to help potential readers decide whether it will appeal to them, since it has been both highly praised and panned by others.    <br /> <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-06-07
US	50223242	R2OY10N60XLHT2	0446531456	26731198	Exact Revenge	Books	4	15	17	N	N	(4+) Lives Changed Forever by a Few Random Moments	I am familiar with the story of THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO by Alexandre Dumas but have never read the book; thus, this review of Tim Green's modern day version of that classic work will make no comparisons of the relative virtues of the two novels although the obvious differences between them deserve a brief comment. This is a much shorter and less complex work than Dumas' book, which is well over 1000 pages in length. This difference combined with its modern day setting in upstate New York will undoubtedly make it much more attractive to today's typical reader of action oriented psychological thrillers. In summary, Green does not attempt to recreate a modern day version of that classic work but rather utilizes the essence of the adventures of Dumas' character to weave an intriguing tale of betrayal and how the victim decided to EXACT REVENGE. Each section of the book begins with a quotation from THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO - taken together they serve both to pay the proper credit to Dumas' for his masterpiece and foreshadow the action which is about to unfold. In summary, as the titles of these sections indicate - this is book about BETRAYAL, ESCAPE, ASCENSION and REVENGE. <br /> <br />This is the story of Raymond White, written in the intensity and with the introspection that a first person narrative allows. The opening lines are \\"there was a time when people wished that they were me. The only boundaries I had were the limits of my imagination.\\" Raymond had been a highly successful NY attorney, a self-made success about to be nominated for political office and hoping to marry the beautiful woman with whom he was deeply in love. Following the conclusion of a very important deal, he agreed to secretly deliver a letter of unknown contents from a dying Congressman to a local woman in upstate New York. This simple act resulted in his BETRAYAL, his conviction for a murder which he did not commit, and the loss of all he held dear - his father (who died while he was in prison), his job, his girlfriend and for a while his hope for the future. We meet White while he is still in prison - twenty years after his 1985 trial he has stayed alive by committing acts which keep him in solitary confinement and away from the dangers posed by his fellow prisoners. <br /> <br />Suddenly, in another seemingly random event White saves an old inmate named Lester Cole. In gratitude, Cole gradually overcomes White's distrust and skepticism and convinces White that he can in fact not only survive but achieve the impossible, ESCAPE from the supposedly escape-proof Auburn NYS maximum-security prison in which they are incarcerated. Lester also teaches White his three rules of survival at Auburn. The third and most important is \\"EXACT REVENGE\\". \\"If you don't do it, you'll be a professional victim.  You exact it and it's exact. Not just a reaction, but planned out. Precise. It needs to send a message.\\" Yes, the double entendre of the title is intentional.   <br /> <br />In addition to the hope that Cole's plan offers for potential escape, Cole also eventually comes to trust Raymond enough to confide to him that he has a hidden cache of wealth from his exploits. These have the potential to provide the means for Raymond's establishment of a new identity and his ASCENSION to a position of power which will enable him to achieve the REVENGE which he so desperately desires to inflict on the villains of twenty years ago. <br /> <br />This is a well-constructed story, taut and spare and with an intriguing subplot regarding Raymond's partially Indian heritage. There are also a few shocking twists as the story progresses. The author Tim Green is intimately familiar with upstate NY and is a member of the NYS Bar and his knowledge adds realistic detail to the story. After my enjoyment of THE LETTER OF THE LAW and THE FOURTH PERIMETER, I was terribly disappointed by his one star novel THE FIFTH ANGEL. Thus, I am very pleased that his latest two books, which continue to examine the themes which formed the basis of that book (i.e., the achievement of justice and retribution outside the legal system), have been much more enjoyable and philosophically consistent. <br /> <br />Despite my praise and the fact that the story captivated me, I did not rate it five stars for several reasons, all of which I freely admit are a matter of personal taste. First, taken as a whole the series of coincidences which combined to allow Raymond to create his new identity strained my credibility even while creating a fascinating story. Second, Raymond's desire to exact a full measure of vengeance before he could move forward with that new life and enjoy his good fortune was understandable but very unsettling to me. Third, Green's vision of humanity as revealed in Raymond's acts of revenge, while definitely less dark than that of Dennis Lehane (who is a much better author than Green), still detracts quite a bit from my enjoyment of his work. Thus, for me the conclusion is made somewhat bittersweet by the knowledge of how Raymond arrived there. Nevertheless, this is not only a good story but also has provides the material to form the basis for an interesting philosophical discussion of the interplay of the concepts of revenge and justice. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-06-01
US	50223242	R1AEHR8ZCCVEXJ	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Great Plot, Wonderful Humor, & Interesting Characters	This is a standalone work of fiction inspired by the author's attendance at a trial in Philadelphia of violent gang members charged with crack-cocaine trafficking. In a particularly clever juxtaposition which highlights two crucial elements of the story, the author introduces each of the four parts with a quotation from William Penn which describes Philadelphia and reproduces the spirit at the time of the city's founding paired with a brief segment of the transcript of the above mentioned trial. The theme of the story is best captured by Penn's admonition \\"right is right, even if everyone is against it, and wrong is wrong, even if everyone is for it\\".  <br /> <br />This novel is in no way a fictional account of the trial, but rather a thriller true to the style of the author's previous works but with a totally different cast of characters. (While some of Scottoline's fans will undoubtedly miss the familiarity of the lawyers who people the all female firm of Rosato and Associates, this novel allows the author the freedom to proceed in directions not constrained by that background.) And the tangential connections to that series which play to the author's strengths are still present. First, the central character, Vicki Allegretti, is still a female attorney, although Vicki resides on the other side of the law. She is a new AUSA (Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Philly federal prosecutor's office) after previously being an Assistant DA in the local District Attorney's office. Second, the action is centered in Philadelphia, a city of which the author utilizes her intimate knowledge gleaned as a lifelong resident to impart tremendous realism to the story. Third, while the legal background is both interesting and essential to the story, it is cast as primarily a murder mystery/detective procedural. Fourth, the action is fast paced, but not at the expense of character development. Fifth, the plot twists are quite clever and in fact more complicated than her previous books. Sixth, while there is plenty of violence, it is described in summary form rather than carried to the gruesome extremes which are so often associated with stories of this genre. The crimes stand on their own for their unacceptability, we don't need every detail of the slayings and autopsies. Seventh, by the conclusion we realize that the story is as much about human frailty and the voyage of self-discovery of the main characters as it is about apprehending the murders. (Otherwise the last few chapters would have been superfluous.) Last, and one of the major reasons for my great enjoyment of Scottoline's (and also Brian Haig's) books, the wonderful injection of humor into the storyline through the thoughts (helped by her trademark clever use of italics) and words of Vicki and her supporting cast.  The humor is of both the smile and laugh out loud varieties. While the use of humor built slowly until the characters had established their identities, as the story progressed there were a great many wonderful lines and asides that I was constantly sharing with my wife until she told me to stop because she'd decided to read the book.  <br /> <br />The storyline itself is straightforward, Vicki has been assigned the case of a previous AUSA who has left the office for private practice. It is a case involving the illegal sale of handguns, so she and Bob Morton (Morty) a well respected and loved ATF agent visit the CI (Confidential Informant) to prepare for the upcoming trial. Suddenly, a panicky teenager races down the steps and points a loaded 9mm Glock in her face and then his partner shoots Morty in the chest and they disappear, leaving the carnage of three dead bodies in their wake. A brick of cocaine is discovered, and the circumstances mobilize all the local and federal law enforcement agencies. Of course, Vicki's case against the defendant, a gorgeous black young black woman, Rheema Bristow, has disintegrated, but Vicki is so enraged by Morty's death that she attacks Rheema and gets suspended. Then in a surprising twist, she and Rheema warily collaborate (this odd pairing resulting in much of the humor, Mutt and Jeff, ebony and ivory) to attempt to clear Rheema's name solve several of the murders which occur as the story progresses. <br /> <br />There are additional intersecting storylines which are cleverly woven into the novel in an integral manner and not just as throwaways or for misdirection. The two most important involve Vicki's love life (or lack thereof) and her very ambivalent relationship with her father, who grew up in the lower class Devil's Corner neighborhood that is now Rheema's home and has become increasingly dangerous as a drug gang attempts to gain a foothold there.  <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this book. I got caught up in the storyline and the solution had some great twists that tied everything together. I empathized with the characters; my one criticism is that on a few occasions their actions seemed too rash to be realistic, even given their emotional involvement and the adrenaline rush that can dominate an individual's actions in such cases. The details were often perfect, such as the choice of songs and their implications at the big party near the conclusion of the story. Another wonderful detail is how apropos Vicki's father name is when it is seemingly incidentally finally revealed. This review would not be complete without a mention of Ruby, her parent's attack Corgi with the extreme herding instincts. Finally, the emotional nature of the last couple of chapters, while certainly sentimental and perhaps even evoking a few tears, perfectly concluded the story and left me feeling really good about both Vicki and life despite the tragedies which dominated the narrative. <br /> <br />Disclaimer: I was contacted by the publisher's agent and offered an ARC (Advance Review Copy) of this novel based on my Amazon reviewer rank and the type of books that I review. While my enjoyment of two of the author's previousbooks led to me eagerly accept the offer, I made no promises with regard to writing a review. Furthermore, I and do not know either the author or anyone employed by the publisher. Nevertheless, in the interest of full disclosure I feel it appropriate to inform the reader of the potential conflict of interest which my receipt of a free copy of DEVIL'S CORNER could have caused; I hope that my obvious enthusiasm for the story as indicated in this review makes it clear my review is free of such bias.  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-05-31
US	50223242	REZJ2TN2RL05N	0316710601	293191939	4th of July	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	(3 1/2) Who Will Be Next To Join The Club?	4TH OF JULY is generally representative of the style that James Patterson (together with his co-authors) has continued to refine into a very successful formula for creating bestselling novels - nonstop action, a relatively straightforward storyline with just enough complexity to keep his readers' interest, very short punchy chapters which make it extremely easy for the reader to get caught up in the action (in this case the 146 chapters average less than three pages each); and finally in the case of his series (first the Alex Cross books, now the Women's Murder Club), characters with whom his readers become increasing familiar. While there are some subtle changes in the fourth installment in the series, Patterson has obligingly continued the tradition of making it easy for new readers to understand the order in which they were written by conveniently numbering them.  <br /> <br />WARNING: This book contains a spoiler if you have not read THIRD DEGREE, the previous installment in this series. If you plan to read that book, do not read this book first. Also, skip the remainder of this paragraph, which comments upon the shocking conclusion to that story. One major difference from the first three entries in this series is that ADA Jill Bernhardt was brutally murdered near the conclusion of that story. Thus, when the remaining three members meet at the neighborhood cafe Susie's, there is a void as Jill's memory still intrudes upon their thoughts. Furthermore, by the conclusion the author verifies the reader's suspicion that this novel has been used as a bridge to reconstitute the Club.  <br /> <br />One of the obvious differences from the earlier books in the series is that Patterson partners with a new co-author, Maxine Paetro. Judging from the differences in style and tone and the injection of more humor, it appears that while Patterson undoubtedly sketched the plot since he owns the franchise, it is highly likely that Mrs. Paetro wrote the majority of the story. Hopefully, Patterson will continue to utilize her skills in future episodes. The second and most important difference is that this is definitely a book about SFPD Lt. Lindsay Boxer with other club members playing only periperal roles with the exception of a few important contributions from Chief Medical Examiner Claire Washburn. The third difference is that most of the action takes place while Lindsay is recuperating in the town of Half Moon Bay and her actions are totally outside the scope of her official duties. Last, the gruesome detailed violence which came to dominate some of the later novels in the Alex Cross series (especially those involving the Mastermind) is more prevalent; while it is integral to the plot in this case I nevertheless did not enjoy it and reduced my rating by half a star because of this factor. <br /> <br />The story begins with the body of a young man found electrocuted in a bathtub in a seedy hotel in the Tenderloin District of SF. Lindsay is called to the scene and ominously notes the words NOBODY CARES which have been spray painted on the door.  Despite the fact that this murder is similar to another recent homicide, the invisible nature of the victims means that the cases have received only cursory media attention. However, Lindsay is very trouble by the fact that they bear a remarkable similarity to a still unsolved case which she investigated when she first joined the police force. A young male was found murdered in his hotel room and the same phrase was painted on the wall; the fact that she has never even been able to identify the victim still distresses her. Soon she and her former partner Warren Jacobi engage in a near fatal car chase in pursuit of some suspects, the subsequent showdown has potentially disastrous consequences for everyone concerned when a brief firefight erupts as the two police officers attempt to rescue the two teenagers trapped in their wrecked automobile. <br /> <br />While Jacobi recovers in the hospital, Lindsayflees SF to hide from the press while awaiting the trial which will determine the course of her career. However, the peaceful community in which she is staying (accompanied by her border collie Martha while babysitting for Penelope, her sister's Vietnamese potbellied pig) is increasingly terrified by several apparently random but very grisly murders. Lindsay decides to unofficially investigate, an action which both alienates the local police chief and soon puts her life in danger. Meanwhile, the reader is quite effectively treated to brief glimpses into the mind of the anonymous killer(s) in a way which increases the suspense without revealing any helpful information. <br /> <br />The action moves quickly to a climax, and the final outcome is quite ingenious if quite improbable.  The title of my review refers to the three parallel and interlated storylines. First, what will happen to Lindsay and will these events lead to the Women's Murder Club being reconstituted by the end of the story. One new candidate soon emerges, but the outcome is not clear until the conclusion. Second, as the dead bodies pile up we soon wonder how many members will join the Victims' Club (my term, but the author can use it in the next book if she wants) before the murderers are caught. Third, it soon becomes clear there is a methodical Murderers' Club with a very specific agenda operating in Half Moon Bay. An essential element of the clever plot is that we only know them by their very descriptive nicknames for themselves.  <br /> <br />This is an excellent beach read, or in my case just the right type of story for a busy airport and a few hour plane flight. As usual in the recent formulaic Patterson mystery/detective books, the lack of character development combined with the rush to conclusion after the case has been solved and the consequent loose ends left dangling (less than usual)  kept it from receiving a higher rating  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-05-30
US	50223242	R1B3JMH6ZWNCVB	0399152725	547962267	Broken Prey (Lucas Davenport)	Books	5	69	85	N	N	(4 1/2) XXX Rated - Profanity and Extreme Violence	BROKEN PREY opens with pervert (and possible murderer) Charlie Pope smelling rancid and miserably scratching out an existence as a garbageman, the only job that he could get since being released on parole from St. John's Security Hospital. Every time Charlie sees a good-looking woman he is reminded of the fact that he is tethered to an electronic ankle bracelet and constantly branded in the press as a danger to the community; after over eight years of incarceration Charlie is desperate enough to fulfill his physical desires by whatever manner necessary.  <br /> <br />The narrative then switches to an upscale Minnesota suburb as Lucas Davenport arrives at a truly horrific murder scene in the Porsche so familiar to the legions of fans of the PREY series by John Sandford. Even to law enforcement professionals involved, the details of the gruesome crime are almost stomach turning. (In fact, it threatens to be the crime which finally causes Lucas' long time associate Sloan to totally burn out and retire from the police force.) The victim is a young woman; her body was systematically scourged, after her throat cut the body was arranged by the killer so that the display would have maximum impact. The details of the killing are not released to the press, both so as to avoid alarming the public and to aid the police in their investigation. When a second victim (a older male who was killed and displayed in the same manner ) is discovered several miles away three weeks later, it is clear that there is not only a serial killer but a true sociopath at large in southern Minnesota.   <br /> <br />All the evidence that Lucas and his team assemble points to Charlie Pope, who has cut off his ankle bracelet and disappeared. And yet confusion and doubt linger. The crimes have been so meticulously plotted and carefully executed that Lucas wonders whether Charlie, a man of limited intellgence and supposedly subject to emotional impulse, could really have committed such acts on his own oris simply being manipulated in some manner by a clever mastermind. (Perhaps Charlie has somehow remained in contact with the \\"Gods Down The Hall\\",  the three most dangerous prisoners at St. John's; they are all kept in solitary confinement due to the extreme danger which they pose to anyone with whom they come into contact).  <br /> <br />This is John Sandford at his best - Lucas and his team (Del Capslock even makes a cameo appearance) trying to track down a deranged killer in a race against time. Small missteps result in further murders and the case threatens to become so explosive that it might demand political sacrifices before its conclusion. Lucas is still working as a freelancer for Rose Marie Rioux, the head of the BCA (Bureau of Criminal Apprehension), but her role in this book is largely peripheral to the story. Lucas' childhood friend Elle (Sister Mary Joseph) plays a larger role than usual. Meanwhile Lucas is at loose ends while his wife Weather and his family spend the summe rin London while Weather at a hospital there. Thus, the enjoyable byplay between them is absent from this story. in fact, one of my major disaapointments is that despite maintaining the wonderful Letty West as an integral element in Lucas' life by making her his ward in the aftermath of NAKED PREY, she continues to have no further role in the series.  <br /> <br />There is an even larger than usual assortment of interesting characters which intersect in various ways with the storyline; however, the only one who seems likely to have a role in a future novel in the series is Ruffee Ignace (read the book to find out how to pronounce his name.) He is a dogged reporter (and one weird dude) with the Star Tribune who plays a crucial role in the story while constantly listening to the different beat of his own internal \\"radio\\". The story has a lot of misdirection, both by the perpetrators of these horrific crimes and by the author of his readers. But it is always clever, never unfair. Thegruesome nature of the crimes and the level of detail kept me from rating it a full stars; in fact, if the story had not been so good and I was not such a fan of the series I would not have read it. But I did round up my rating and simply accompany it with a TRIPLE X warning, since for the story to seem realistic the detailed extreme violence is essential. It also has a huge, impressive, exciting firefight near the conclusion - one of the best in this genre. In addition, Sandford does a great job of tying up the loose ends, all the questions which Lucas (and I the reader) had were eventualy answered. <br /> <br />Finally, a special tribute to the use of Lucas' compilation for his IPOD of the \\"100 Best Songs of the Rock Era\\" as a clever way to provide a unifying theme among almost all the individuals in the book. At first I thought it was an interesting filler but somewhat of a distraction. (You'll have to read the book to get the background.) However, it became increasingly enjoyable as I (a bigtime rock fan) silently joined in the discussion as various suggestions were made and debated. And the last reference to the list was so ingenious it really made me smile. Rather than provide a fullblown critique, my only comment will be that while I can understand why a cop might chose JAILHOUSE ROCK by Elvis Presley (several of the songs had a police connection); only one song by The King is totally insufficient. But if you finally do  choose only one, how can it not be HEARTBREAK HOTEL, the one that began it all?  One last tickler, read the book to find out how Weather could convince Lucas that that his choice for #100 should be Jazz Suite No. 2; Waltz 2 by Dmitri Shostakovich. Huh? <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-29
US	50223242	RDUL08KRTQNFT	0743264894	162896373	No Place Like Home:  A Novel	Books	5	6	14	N	N	(4 1/2) Murder Past and Present	In the dramatic three page prologue which opens this rapidly paced murder mystery, ten-year-old Liza Barton is awakened from her favorite dream (which recalls her dead father Will) by a violent argument betwen her mother Audrey and her estranged stepfather Ted Cartwright. Liza then accidentally kills her mother while trying to defend her and also subsequently wounds Ted; the injury will leave him with a lifelong limp. As we learn in later flashbacks, despite testimony from a vengeful Ted that the shooting was a deliberate act by Liza, the Juvenile Court returns a verdict of not guilty. As a result of the fact that Liza has no immediate family in her hometown of Mendham, N.J. and has been labeled \\"Little Lizzie Borden\\" by the sensationalist press coverage of the case, all the case records are sealed and she is relocated to Santa Barbara, CA. and raised as Celia Kellogg by distant relatives. <br /> <br />After several months of remaining almost completely mute, she eventually begins to speak again and following several years of therapy she returns to the East Coast to attend the Fashion Institute of Technology. She later marries Larry Foster, a wealthy older investment manager whom she meets when he hires her interior design firm. She reveals her past to Larry, then on his hospital deathbed he makes her promise that she will keep it a secret from everyone else so that their son Jack (now four years old) will not suffer the stigma of being taunted as the child of \\"Little Lizzie Borden\\".  After great indecision and much regret over the deathbed promise to Larry, when Celia (Liza) later marries Alex Nolan, a distant relative of Larry whom she had met during her first husband's illness, she honors Larry's request with vague foreboding but with no conception of the disatrous consequences which would result from maintaining the secret of her true identity.  <br /> <br />As the story opens, Alex has given Celia Nolan/Foster nee Kellogg (really Liza Barton) a surprise birthday present which leaves her both speechless and terrified; the \\"dream home\\" often described by Celia so that they can fulfill their desire to move to suburban N.J. and which Alex has secretly purchased is in fact the house where she killed her mother twenty-four years ago. How can she solve the dilemma posed by her secret? She recognizes her grave error in not revealing her past to Alex, yet now feels not only bound by her promise to Larry but is concerned by Alex's potential reaction if she belatedly reveals the truth to him. Upon their on moving day, they find the lawn covered with the message LITTLE LIZZIE'S PLACE - BEWARE and the house despoiled by bright red paint. There is also an elaborate skull and crossbones carved into the front door. Not only does does Celia faint and the press have a field day resurrecting the Little Lizzie story, but Georgette Grove, the realtor, quickly panics when she realizes that Alex has purchased the house in Celia's name and Celia has not been warned of the stigma attached to the house and thus the sale can be rescinded and Georgette's huge commision will be lost. (She had in fact casually tried to warn Alex both of the house's history and incidents experienced by previous owners, but he was unconcerned and was convinced that the house was the perfect birthday surprise for Celia.) In fact, it is this New Jersey law regarding all residential real estate sales in the state which gave the author the initial idea for the plot and serves as a \\"hook\\" on which a significant segment of the storyline is based. <br /> <br />Soon, additional harrassment of the Nolans takes place; before long it is clear someone knows Celia's true identity. Furthermore, she is terified that she will be recognized by townspeople who knew her family; this fear intensifies when the policeman who shows up to investigate the vandalism is Sergeant Early, the same cop who twenty four years ago wrapped a shocked and mute Liza Barton in a blanket in his patrol car after the shooting. Soon the stakes are raised much higher as subsequent murders occur in the quiet suburban community. As the above detailed plot description should make obvious to Mary Higgins Clark's devoted readers, this book follows her usual practice of having a fast developing story line and a backstory that is gradually revealed as the novel proceeds. There are numerous individuals whose motivations are unclear (you might want to keep a list); in addition to the above mentioned Ted Cartwright, the roles of Georgette's employees Henry Paley and Robin Carpenter gradually evolve as the story proceeds. What is the role of the unknown Zach, whose name is the only word a terified Liza spoke for months? There is also the neighbor Marcella Williams, wonderfully drawn as the busybody everybody loves to despise but who may have crucial information about events both past and present. Benjamin Fletcher, the lawyer who defended Liza but is unaware of Celia's true identity is suddenly drawn back into the current case; he soon tangles with Jeffrey MacKingsley, the Morris County prosecutor who realizes that this bizarre turn of events may be the steppingstone which affords him the fame necessary to achieve his goal of winning the next N.J. gubernatorial election. <br /> <br />Thus, this is not only an action filled murder mystery but also a real psychological thriller . Tension abounds, not only for the characters but the reader as well. While I have sufficient minor criticisms to not award the book a full five star rating (especially regarding the occasional seemingly ridiculous actions of a few of the characters and the overwhelming number of coincidences upon which the plot superficially depends),these flaws did not detract from my enjoyment to any significant extent as they apparently did for many other reviewers. I am only an infrequent reader of the author's work so cannot place it in a broader context; however, I am glad that I read NO PLACE LIKE HOME based on my wife'sstrong recommendation and enjoyed it more than her other books which I have read.  The myriad suspects, the N.J. setting with which I am familiar as a former resident of the state, and the frequent and well plotted misdirection which the author frequently employed right up until the conclusion all combined to produce five star enjoyment for me. While certainly not an enduring work of classic fiction, this is a perfect example of why the author continues to see her books at the top of the best seller lists for popular fiction. If you are a mystery fan, it is certainly worth a few hours of your time to see how the story eventually ends for Celia or is it Liza or maybe Lizzie Borden, no Barton or perhaps Kellogg, then Foster and now Nolan. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-05-02
US	50223242	R2QLJIQYG0N761	031615556X	819093043	The Angel Experiment (Maximum Ride, Book 1)	Books	2	138	186	N	N	(2+) Low Priced but Not a Bargain	THE STORY: Maximum Ride is a fourteen-year-old girl with wings (or a mutant freak depending on the current turn of events) who is the result of some experiments at a secret lab to inject avian genes into human embroyos.  Max is the oldest of the six members of her family, or as they refer to themselves, the flock. The others are Fang - a taciturn boy who is four months younger than Max; Iggy - who was blinded by experimentation on his sight at the lab; Nudge - a young girl who talks non-stop; and two siblings, the Gasman - an eight-year-old boy with persistent intestinal problems and Angel, his six-year-old sister. Max and her companions were kept in cages and subject to repeated scientific experiments during their life at the School (as the lab was called); they were eventually freed by one of the lab scientists (who are referred to by the flock as Whitecoats) named Jeb Batchelder. Jeb secreted them at his mountain home and raised and educated them; but Jeb suddenly disappeared two years ago and the flock has been on its own since then. Suddenly, Erasers (experimental beings also developed at the lab who can morph into powerful vicious wolf-like creatures) raid the family's mountain hideaway and kidnap Angel.<br /><br />The remaining five kids determine to rescue Angel, who they assume has been returned to the School. Obviously the mission, for which they are ill equipped, will involve extreme danger despite the advantage of flight which their thirteen foot wing span provides them. Their journey begins with a return to the School in Death Valley, California; after a harrowing ecapes and great emotional trauma they eventually make their way across the continent to search for the clues to the identities of their human parents in another secret lab located somewhere in NYC. The fact that the Erasers possess a seeming uncanny ability to locate the flock adds to the tension which builds as the story approaches the point where the flock may be forced to choose between the bonds which have made them the only \\"family\\" each has ever known and the pull of searching for their biological parents. Each of them wants an answer to the question of how they came to be participants in such a despicable experiment; they also intensely yearn to somehow become members of a nuclear human family with a \\"real\\" mom and dad. As a point of clarification, despite the subtitle THE ANGEL EXPERIMENT, the flock do not think of themselves as angels and while they bear a superficial resemblance to our general conception of angels, there is no mention of this resemblance at any point during the story.<br /><br />THE GOOD: the decision of James Patterson to attempt to realize the potential of Max's character (which first appeared in WHEN THE WIND BLOWS) after her adventures headed toward a dead end in LAKE HOUSE, which received very poor reviews. The basic storyline  is quite clever and it has sufficient elements to develop into an interesting fantasy series, although some readers of the earlier books may be disconcerted by the fact that with the exception of Max's winged nature and her escape from a despicable school, there are few similarities with the earlier books. (In effect, this is a cover of those books not a sequel; it utilizes the same basic character but everything else is diffeent.) The situation in which the \\"children\\" find themselves evokes both sympathy and tension in the reader; the author accommodates his legion of fans with his usual style of very brief action-filled chapters and frequent plot twists. The technique of using Max as the narrator very effectively provides insight into her psychological travails and impacts the reader emotionally. While there is frequent violence, most of it is less disturbing than in some of Patterson's work, both because it is less graphically described and also because it occurs in the realm of fantasy. Finally, the examination of the moral and ethical issues relating to the scientific experiments which produced the protagonists and the discussions of family relationships and responsibilities are cleverly interspersed throughtout the narrative. It is this aspect and it's potentially thought provoking and educational impact on young readers (certainly an important target audience for the book as I will discuss later) which led me to slightly upgrade my two star rating.<br /><br />THE BAD: The potential of the story is never realized, as is increasing the case with Patterson's books. Interesting ideas are never fully developed, even the humorous moments seem rushed. Either Patterson is getting increasingly lazy and just attempting to establish a new franchise to milk or he is involved in too many projects; whichever is the case his editors should have required a major rewrite. The thought process was also sloppy, this is a fantasy set in the real world, not the creation of a whole new world. So, when the flock is in NYC, it frequents Central Park, finds sanctuary in St. Patrick's Cathedral, and takes the Madison Avenue bus. Yet suddenly in a disconcerting switch with no conceivable purpose the kids visit a fictional AFO Schmidt (rather than FAO Schwarz) and dine at the Garden Tavern, which resembles in every detail the Tavern on the Green. The narrative content actually more resembles a comic book or a graphic novel than the usual hard cover of over 400 pages.<br /><br />THE TRULY UGLY: The author seemingly changes the rules at will whenever the flock confronts a problem. While it is difficult to be specfic without providing spoilers, two general examples will suffice. First, in the absence of any source of funds, the family soon confronts situations with which it would be very difficult to cope in their disguised state as regular children. So on two separate occasions, ATM cards very propitiously come into their possession, once in a totally unbelievable manner. In another situation, just when  required one of them suddenly manages to drive a car. (These aren't the most outrageous examples.) But most importantly, THERE IS AN ENDING BUT NO CONCLUSION! Many events remain unexplained. The reader and Max are both left in a state of shock by the apparent implications of a horrible tragedy near the end of the story, yet there is no closure. Even when a book such as this one is intended to be the initial installment of a series, it should satisfy the reader on a standalone basis. This fails that requirement.<br /><br />SUMMARY: While there was no indication either on the book jacket or in the television commercials which I saw that this book was intended for the youth market (perhaps preteen), the price, the nature of the story and the website to which the reader is referred all seem to indicate that is the intended audience. I will obviously be interested in the opinions expressed in the reviews of such readers, but I believe that there are numerous better written alternatives available for both adults and young readers interested in fantasy. Among the best known works of recent vintage are not only the Harry Potter series but the wonderful Thursday Next quartet by Jasper Fforde. Thus I strongly recommend that rather than buy this book you at least wait until the sequel is published in the hope that some of the loose threads wil be tied up. If you are too much of a James Patterson fan to wait that long, either just borrow it from your local library (to which I plan to donate my copy, which is definitely not a keeper), or alternatively wait for the paperback rather than encourage the author and publisher to produce more books of this quality by purchasing the hardcover edition.<br /><br />Tucker Andersenproduced the protagonists and the discussions of family relationships and responsibilities are cleverly interspersed throughtout the narrative. It is this aspect and it's potentially thought provoking and educational impact on young readers (certainly an important target audience for the book as I will discuss later) which led me to slightly upgrade my two star rating. <br /> <br />THE BAD: The potential of the story is never realized, as is increasing the case with Patterson's books. Interesting ideas are never fully developed, even the humorous moments seem rushed. Either Patterson is getting increasingly lazy and just attempting to establish a new franchise to milk or he is involved in too many projects; whichever is the case his editors should have required a major rewrite. The thought process was also sloppy, this is a fantasy set in the real world, not the creation of a whole new world. So, when the flock is in NYC, it frequents Central Park, finds sanctuary in St. Patrick's Cathedral, and takes the Madison Avenue bus. Yet suddenly in a disconcerting switch with no conceivable purpose the kids visit a fictional AFO Schmidt (rather than FAO Schwarz) and dine at the Garden Tavern, which resembles in every detail the Tavern on the Green. The narrative content actually more resembles a comic book or a graphic novel than the usual hard cover of over 400 pages. <br /> <br />THE TRULY UGLY: The author seemingly changes the rules at will whenever the flock confronts a problem. While it is difficult to be specfic without providing spoilers, two general examples will suffice. First, in the absence of any source of funds, the family soon confronts situations with which it would be very difficult to cope in their disguised state as regular children. So on two separate occasions, ATM cards very propitiously come into their possession, once in a totally unbelievable manner. In another situation, just when  required one of them suddenly manages to drive a car. (These aren'tthe most outrageous examples.) But most importantly, THERE IS AN ENDING BUT NO CONCLUSION! Many events remain unexplained. The reader and Max are both left in a state of shock by the apparent implications of a horrible tragedy near the end of the story, yet there is no closure. Even when a book such as this one is intended to be the initial installment of a series, it should satisfy the reader on a standalone basis. This fails that requirement. <br /> <br />SUMMARY: While there was no indication either on the book jacket or in the television commercials which I saw that this book was intended for the youth market (perhaps preteen), the price, the nature of the story and the website to which the reader is referred all seem to indicate that is the intended audience. I will obviously be interested in the opinions expressed in the reviews of such readers, but I believe that there are numerous better written alternatives available for both adults and young readers interested in fantasy. Among the best known works of recent vintage are not only the Harry Potter series but the wonderful Thursday Next quartet by Jasper Fforde. Thus I strongly recommend that rather than buy this book you at least wait until the sequel is published in the hope that some of the loose threads wil be tied up. If you are too much of a James Patterson fan to wait that long, either just borrow it from your local library (to which I plan to donate my copy, which is definitely not a keeper), or alternatively wait for the paperback rather than encourage the author and publisher to produce more books of this quality by purchasing the hardcover edition. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-04-25
US	50223242	R2KYW13BUT8NFC	0312319169	863828045	Company Man	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Lives of Quiet Desperation	A few years before this novel begins, Nick Conover was a man who seemed to be on top of the world and have a great life. After graduation from his Fenwick, Michigan high school team, where he was \\"big man on campus\\" and the center on and captain of his high school hockey.team, he attended Michigan State and returned home to marry his high school sweetheart Laura. They had two wonderful kids -  Lucas and Julia - and Nick rapidly rose through the ranks of Stratton Corporation, the local firm founded by Milton DeVries which had transformed the office furniture industry. Nick was truly the hometown hero when he became the CEO of Stratton, where his father had worked on the chair assembly line. He and Laura moved into the exclusive gated community Fenwicke Estates (Nick always did hate the pretentiousness and implied exclusivity of the final e added to the name) and they seemed insulated from the daily problems of making ends meet which were the focus of the great majority of the town's residents.    By the time the reader is introduced to Nick, his life has taken several turns for the worse.  Stratton's CFO Scott McNally is briefing him on the necessity for another round of layoffs at the plant in response to the economic downturn and the pressures from Atlas McKenzie, the Boston private equity partnership that now owns a controlling interest in the firm. The fact that Stratton, the largest employer in Fenwick, has laid off half of it's workforce had made him almost a pariah outside the company and earned him the nickname of Nick the Slasher. Even more ominously, the security at his gated community has not prevented repeated break-ins at his home; the family has found the words NO HIDING PLACE painted on the walls. Nick and the kids are still trying to cope with the death of Laura in an automobile accident two years ago; the routine chores are performed by the Marta Burrell, the longtime nanny from Barbados, but Nick feels overwhelmed by the task of understanding the needs of his growing children, especially  Lucas, who has become increasing hostile. Suddenly, the tension escalates dramatically when Nick is alerted by the police that there has been another incident at his home. He arrives simultaneusly with Julia (who has been picked up after school by Marta); Julia immediately becomes hysterical when she discovers that her companion Barney, the old family labrador retriever has been killed in a manner which traumatizes not only Nick's family but me as a dog lover and lab owner as well.    The escalation of violence and implicit threat to his family cause Nick to go for help to Eddie Rinaldi, a former cop who Nick hired as Stratton's head of security based on their high school friendship when he played right wing on Nick's high school hockey team. Eddie not only installs a high tech security system at Nick's residence, but combs the Straaton personnel records for any laid off employees whose psychological profile indicates that they might be capable of committing such acts. He soon focuses on Andrew Stadler, a loner who had recently quit when threatened with a layoff. The police are hostile to Nick and have little interest in pursuing Eddie's hunch, then Andrew is found dead under unusual circumstances. While detective Roy Bugbee seems uninterested in pursuing the case his partner Audrey Rhimes is convinced foul play is at work and sonn becomes suspicious of Eddie's previous interest in Andrew.    This novel is similar to PARANOIA, Finder's previous thriller in its utilization of a business backdrop and dealing with difficult ethical choices, but it is much more nuanced and more of a psychological drama.  While it certainly involves a great deal of PARANOIA which frequently surfaces in the lives of the central characters, in my view it is also much more realistic. Early in my investment career I became familiar with Herman Miller, the company whose revolutionary vision of the potential for a restructuring of the office environmentpioneered the concept of the \\"open office\\". Finder's extensive research into the industry and how it evolved from primarily a \\"metal bending\\" assembly line business to a technological and design driven business is wonderfully captured in the book. The evolution of Stratton certainly seems to evoke the history of Herman Miller (which is a public company which survived the econmic downturn in excellent shape - this is where fiction departs from reality) and Fenwick certainly is a composite of Grand R,apids and Zeeland, Michigan and the difficulties corporate managements and laid off employees faced as the economic climate became hostile.    The characters are multifaceted and their development intriguing. As Nick struggles to hold his family together, he simultaneously must also counter the pressure being applied by the partners of Atlas McKenzie and come to terms with Andrew Stadler's death. In a strange twist of fate, his attempts to resolve the situation seemingly lead him to find personal solace by making amends to Andrew's daughter Cassandra, who then is able to bond with Julia and Lucas in a way that Nick finds comforting even as Cassie's success highlights his own inadequacies. Simultaneously, on a parallel track, the deeply religious Audrey Rhimes is fighting a silent battle with her partner Roy over his treament of her while attempting to salvage her marriage to Leon, who has descended into a battle with alcoholism since being laid off from Stratton.    There are myriad crosscurrents and undercurrents throughout the book, and the pace quickens considerably as the novel proceeds. The most descriptive analogy which I can use to describe this book is that of one of those jigsaw puzzles with pictures on both sides - in this instance  one side is from Nick's perspective, the other is from Audrey's. We are given alternate views and they are clearly related, in fact the tension is how the two will be reconciled by the time the author finishes assembling the pieces.Audrey's side resembles a well drawn police procedural and Nick's a psychological study of a COMPANY MAN under severe stress. They both must deal with the interlocking pieces which have drawn their lives together.    Finder has woven a story with interesting characters and sufficient misdirection to keep the reader guessing; yet he fairly still provides sufficient clues to gradually allow the general shape of the the conclusion even if not the specific details to become visible. This riveting story examines the nature of the moral dilemmas and ethical choices which individuals are often forced to make at crucial moments on their lives, and then emphsizes the necessity of living with the often unintended consequences. As it is so simply summarized in the novel \\"maybe there's no right thing to do here. Maybe it's not so much a matter of doing the right thing as trying not to do the wrong thing\\".    While there are a few minor faults about which I could complain, in general they are not worth detailing. More importantly, these criticisms are not sufficient to cause me to reduce my rating. As I previously mentioned, the book is very well researched and the details and backdrop in general very realistic. Thus, I have chosen to comment on only one glaring mistake. Apparently writing novels is often like business, it is the minor details which you overlook and your fact checker ignores which trip you up . All Dairy Queen fans who read this book will immediately recognize my reference. Finder's belief that a DQ Blizzard is a sundae indicates he forgot to confirm this fact with Warren Buffett (who enjoys DQ enough that he bought the company). Clearly a startling if forgivable lapse in enjoyable read.    Disclaimer: I was furnished an advance review copy of this book based on my previous reviews of books of this genre and despite the disappointment which the author had commmunicated to me by email due to the reduction in my rating of PARANOIA to four stars (review 1/14/2004)based on my disappontment with a few aspects of that very enjoyable story. I have no other relationship with either the author or individuals employed by his publisher and simply provide this information in the interest of full disclosure.    Tucker Andersen	2005-04-20
US	50223242	RUPHYAHI4REOC	0525948597	498834007	Missing Persons (Dr. Alan Gregory Novels)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Are You Schzoid or Simply Obsessive Compulsive ?	Alan Gregory (the first person narrator of this story) and Diane Estevez are clinical psychologists and best friends who share an office building in downtown Boulder, Colorado but maintain separate professional practices. Their good friend Hannah Grant, a clinical social worker, has agreed to be the emergency contact for their practices while they attend a weekend seminar in Las Vegas; however, the fact that she has not returned repeated telephone messages from Diane regarding their plans for an earlier departure is of great concern to them, to a minor extent because they cannot leave without her acknowledgement but primarily because Hannan's OCD (obseesive, compulsive disorder symptoms) make an unreturned phone call from her friend Diane about such an important matter an extremely unusual event that is likely to be indicative of some crisis in Hannah's life. Thus, as the story opens, Diane and Alan have just arrived at the office which Hannah shares with Mary Black, a psychiatrist who is currently on maternity leave tending her triplets. When they investigate, they are shocked to find Hannah dead in Mary's office under bizarre circumstances. There are no signs of foul play, and notes on her office door indicate that despite apparently arriving at her office at her usual time she did not keep any of her patient appointments during that day. The Boulder police are baffled and despite their investigation the cause of Hannah's death remains classified as undetermined. Thus is MYSTERY #1 introduced. <br /> <br />A few days later, as Dr. Gregory and his wife are packing to go on a Christmas weekend ski vacation with their young daughter Grace, they hear a news bulletin that fourteen-year-old Mallory Miller disappeared from her bedroom sometime Christmas night. The case is especially disturbing because Mallory lives in the same neighborhood where a six year old girl (then the same age as Mallory) was found dead in her basement eight years ago in what remains an open homicide investigation. (Yes, this aspect of the novel is undoubtedly based on the JonBenet Ramsey case.) When the Gregory family returns home a few days later, the Boulder police are completely baffled but their tentative conclusion is that it is more likely that Mallory has run away from home than that she has been kidnapped. Thus is MYSTERY #2 introduced. <br /> <br />As Alan and Diane focus on Hannah's death, based on a professional consultation that Hannah requested of Diane they suddenly realize that there may be a connection between Hannah's death and Mallory's disappearance. Their problems are compounded by the fact that Alan realizes that he had a professional connection to the Miller family years ago which caused him to refer Mallory's parents to Mary Black for treatment. However, their professional code of ethics absolutely prohibits them sharing this information with the police (much to the frustration of Alan's friend Detective Sam Purdy). Diane becomes increasingly agitated by her conclusions regarding the chain of events, and decides to attempt to track down Mallory's mother Rachel, who is currently living in Las Vegas and the symptoms of whose schizophrenia provide some of the lighthearted moments in the book. When Diane mysteriously disappears after gambling (a pastime whose enjoyment was an additional reason for her eagerness to visit Las Vegas), the police show little interest in locating her. When her husband Raoul arrives in town, he can locate neither Diane nor Rachel. However, he is advised that the mysterious and dangerous U. P. North (referred to behind his back as Canada for obvious reasons) might have relevant information. Thus are mysteries #3 (Diane's diappearance), #4 (Rachel's diappearance) and #5 (Canada) introduced. <br /> <br />Finally, during a therapy session with Alan , his schizoid patient (Camaro) Bob Brandt unexpectedy makes comments concerning the case that cause Alan to wonder if Bob has information concerning Mallory's disappearance. When Bob disappears soon after entrusting Alan with a draft of his \\"novel\\" concerning recent events, Alan once again faces an ethical dilemma which causes him to decide to personally investigate the elusive Doyle Chandler, the owner of the garage where Bob kept his Camaro. Thus are mysteries #6 (Bob's disappearance) and (#7 Doyle Chandler) introduced. <br /> <br />I hope that my enthusiasm for this novel is conveyed by the above brief synopsis. There is everything that I enjoy in a story of this type - complicated plot twists, excellent character development of interesting individuals, the necessary episodes of violence described in summary form rather than gruesome detail, action which proceeds at a rapid pace, and a knowledgeable author who utilizes his areas of expertise (both professional and geographic) to infuse realism into the tale. In this regard, there were two elements which made this story of MISSING PERSONS, which is best described as an action filled psychological procedural/detective story, of particular interest to me. First, it is centered in Boulder, an area in which my daughter attends school and with which I have become familiar during several visits. The descriptons of the Pearl Street mall, Canyon Boulevard, the weather, the Colorado mountains, the university campus, and even the menu of the Sunflower Restaurant all helped  recall  fond memories of the area. Second, the discussions of the various mental illnesses and personality disorders affecting the various characters in this book was not only entertaining and a tremendously effective aspect of the story, but very informative as well. Interesting discussions of subjects such as the differences between schizophrenia and bipolar disease, the strange world which schizoids inhabit, OCD, symptoms of clinical depression, and things as mundane of the enabling of alcoholics by sympathetic friends simply trying to help them are all cleverly woven into the narrative.  <br /> <br />Finally, I enjoyed the author's style, especially his ability to lighten the tension without lessening the mystery through the use of humor. One example of this technique, which occurs throughtout the book, is his reference to someone who I will refer to simply as \\"X\\" in order not to provide a spoiler. (Don't try to guess who, just read the book, you'll probably get it wrong.) When it is revealed that \\"X\\" is using a stolen identity, the author then refers to him as \\"the fake X\\" but then cleverly differentiates him from the person who the police determine is utilizing \\"X's\\" identity by labeling that individual as \\"the fake, fake X\\". This is the first book by Stephen White that I have read, so I cannot comment on which of the characters have appeared in his other novels or compare it to his previous twelve books. I now definitely plan to read some of those earlier works, and highly recommend this book. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-04-19
US	50223242	R3P7CNOOD2YE3M	0345457609	275033463	The Chairman: A Novel	Books	4	26	28	N	N	(3 1/2) Worth Reading Despite Unrealized Potential	The factors which have made several of Stephen's Frey's previous novels extremely enjoyable are his detailed knowledge of the financial markets and investment industry together with his ability to create action filled plots with enough misdirection to maintain the reader's interest. Thus, I have been willing to overlook what I regard as their main failures - the minimal character development with the usual exception of his central character and the completely unrealistic assumption (usually central to his plots) that desperate business leaders in positions of power who find their secrets or wealth threatened will routinely resort to murder in an attempt to solve their problems. Unfortunately, the plots of his recent books have gotten more unbelievable and extreme; THE CHAIRMAN continues that trend. In addition, this book suffers from several instances of extremely sloppy editing and a conclusion that fails to tie up several loose ends and leaves in doubt the fate of one of the major characters. My four star rating is due to the fact that my enjoyment of the plot, the strong character development of THE CHAIRMAN Christian Gillette, and a few other positive factors outlined below offset the several negative aspects which I will mention. Approximately half way through the story, I was actually tempted to speed read to the conclusion; I was sufficiently hooked to want to follow the plot to its conclusion but was increasingly frustrated at times by excesses in which the author indulged. However, the relative brevity combined with some interesting insights made me glad that I paid attetion to the details until the conclusion. <br /> <br />The story opens with Christian Gillette delivering the euology for Bill Donovan, the founder and former Chairman of Everest Capital, one of largest, most successful, and most powerful private equity partnerships in the world. Donovan's unexpected death has led to the necessity of invoking the stipulation in the partnership's operating agreement to choose a sucessor within three days; Gillette is now THE CHAIRMAN after a controversial and razor thin vote. He knows that he will need to consolidate his power quickly - both with regard to several individuals within Everest (particularly his previously three co-equal managers Troy Mason, Ben Cohen and Nigel Faraday) and also with regard to the many competitors who would be waiting for any indication of weakness or uncertainty on his part. While the police investigation has ruled Donovan's death a tragic accident, Gillette's concern that it might indeed have resulted from foul play is heightened when he narrowly escapes death during an attempt on his life  as he leaves the church which results in the death of two innocent bystanders. Immediately, we are treated to the high degree of implausibilty often encountered in the story when everyone at the funeral immediately proceeds to the reception at the mansion now owned by Donovan's widow and acts as if it were business as usual and the fiery explosion and resultant deaths had not occurred. Such behavior is totally ridiculous, both from the standpoint of the emotional impact which it would exact and also police procedure. And what is frustrating is that neither the author or his editor apparently cared that his goals in writing this sequence of events as he did could have been accomplished in a much more believable manner with a fairly simple rewrite that would have made the story much more believable. Such unnecessarily dramatic or over the top scenes occurred throughout the book. One further example that I will mention is the supposed background fact that private equity gunslingers routinely achieve returns of 50 to 100 percent a year. Frey knows this is hyperbole, and furthermore it is totally unnecessary to the plot. <br /> <br />The story races along as Gillette is faced with the need to act on several fronts simultaneously; he confronts a problem by almost immediately firing one of his rivals, then isforced to respond to an offer by a major firm to purchase an energy company in Everest's portfolio which may have an acreage position with huge undiscovered reserves. He soon decides to begin to raise the capital for the next Everest fund, and strives to maintain cordial relations with Donovan's widow, whose unexpected support provided his slim margin of victory and who retains a huge financial interst in the firm. As the story proceeds, further attempts are made on Gillette's life; other actors in this convoluted drama are actually murdered. In a key move Gillette eschews the protection provided by the security firm owned by Everest and hires Quentin Stiles, a security expert with whom he gradually establishes an interesting rapport and an unexpected degree of trust. Nevertheless,  events continue to escalate beyond his control and dangers seemed to multiply both to Everest Capital and to his personal safety as well. <br /> <br />Segments of this story are very realistic, and it is made even more enjoyable by the fact that many of these fictional individuals and companies seem to be patterned after similar real life examples. Furthermore, I found the technique of beginning each chapter (with the exception of the final three) with a brief definition that a provided a necessary introduction and/or summary of the subject matter to be very effective. Some are very insightful, e.g. the comment that while our routines allow us the comfort of maintaining order in our lives and avoiding anarchy, they also allow us to avoid original thought and create opportunity for an enemy. The comments in another chapter concerning the benefits of seeking confrontation in the search for progress were also very apropos. In addition, the complexity of Gillette's character is gradually revealed in a clever manner as the story unfolds, often during his interactions with Stiles. Unfortunately, just as in the case of the plot, some elements are carried to such extremes as to lessen the credibility of the portrait that is drawn. <br /> <br />In summary, I decided that the many enjoyable elements of this story outweighed the substantial negatives by a sufficient margin to round up my rating to four stars. But I want to emphasize how sloppy the editing is. While I can't go into detail without providing a spoiler, during the climactic scene one of the participants faces additional danger because there are no cellphone signals in the rural backwater where the action occurs; yet a few seconds later when it becomes necessary for the plot to succeed his adversary in the same location receives a crucial call on his cell phone. If these sort of inexplicable and unnecessary errors ruin your enjoyment of a story, then skip this book. Otherwise, while you may be as frustrated  as I was by the unrealized potential of THE CHAIRMAN, you should still find it enjoyable.   <br /> <br />One final note: congratulations to the publishers for pricing this slim volume appropriately and at a discount to most hardcovers by established authors. I have become increasingly frustrated at the number of relatively brief novels (often with large print and lots of wasted blank pages) which provide little value for their list prices in excess of $25. This book is a welcome exception. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-04-18
US	50223242	R12ADD9BY4FOTQ	0399152415	71579227	Hard Truth (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	5	54	66	N	Y	(4 1/2)  A Wilderness of Damaged Souls	My daughter was a seasonal (park ranger) in several national parks during and after college; she enjoys the Anna Pigeon mysteries written by Nevada Barr, as do many of her friends who have served in the National Park Service. Since being introduced to the series, I have found the books interesting but not compelling; thus, I have not read the earliest books in the series and so will not attempt to present a detailed comparison of HARD TRUTH to the author's previous novels. I was anxious to read this book based both on the fact that my wife became involved enough in the story to read it almost non-stop and also because the area in which the story occurs, ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK and the surrounding locale, has been the subject of several trips by us to visit our daughter, who lived for a while in Estes Park and whose ex-husband still is a ranger in the National Park. Thus, while the map of the area that is thoughtfully provided by the publishers inside the cover of the book will allow a reader unfamiliar with the Park to visualize the relative adjacencies of the locations described; the fact that we had actually driven several of the roads, hiked the trails, and visited the lakes where the action occurred certainly leant a connection and provided a sense of the terrain which furnished an additional sense of intimacy with the main characters in the story. <br /> <br />The story opens with Heath Jarrod (a paraplegic forty-one year old who has obviously not yet come to terms with the result of the ice climbing injury which fractured her third lumbar vertebra several months ago and left her dependent on a wheelchair for her mobility) setting up camp with her aunt Gwen and dog Wiley (real name Prince Theo III) with their RV in Rocky Mountain National Park. Heath resents her aunt's attempt to encourage her to escape from her self-pity and unwillingness to come to terms with her injury and find new activities which would challenge her and could replace rock climbing asthe center of her life. She is ashamed of her self-pity and resignation, but nevertheless has essentially become mentally paralyzed and unable to attempt any positive changes even while recognizing that she has rejected the depression which might lead to suicide. Wiley (nicknamed for the carton coyote), supposedly her companion and highly trained helper dog but in reality her only close friend, always appears bedraggled and borders on the ugly but fortunately for Heath is incredibly smart and obedient. He is the silver lining in her cloud, \\"the one thin flicker in the great dark firmament, like low summer lightning beneath a midwestern tornado sky\\". Heath suffers an accident as she heads up a trail out of the campground after dark, and suddenly realizes her vulnerability and is ovecome with fear when she hears a noise in the brush next to the trail and fantasizes that it is a  bear from which she cannot escape. However, her fear turns to astonishment when her flashlight reveals two terrified young girls, obviously traumatized, so thin their bones stick out, scratched and bruised, and most disturbingly clad only in their underwear. <br /> <br />In juxtapostion with this scene we are transported to the cabin of Anna Pigeon, newly arrived at the Park just two days ago as the first woman ever to be a district ranger in Rocky Mountain. We learn that since the end of the last novel she has married Paul Davidson, recently reelected sheriff of Claiborne County, Mississippi; then, in order to take advantage of the totally fortuitous chain of events which had unexpectedly allowed Anna to get \\"the position of a lifetime\\" she unfortunately is spending her \\"honeymoon\\" alone thirteen hundred miles away. Anna had hurriedly been summoned to replace the District Ranger who had just retired following an unsuccesful month long search for three missing young girls. All the rangers are on edge given the unfinished business that remained, and her immediate task is to attempt to restore some semblance of normalcy. Suddenly, she is notified of an emergency call for an ambulance, and arrives at a scene of chaos and tension where she meets Heath, Gwen and the two traumatized girls. Immediately she recognizes that they are two of the missing girls, but they claim complete amnesia regarding the events of the past four weeks; despite Anna's skepticism their story remains unchanged. The situation is further complicated by the desire of their families to have the children immediately released from custody and returned to their isolated Mormon enclave after minimal medical attention.   <br /> <br />The story is narrated alternately by Anna and Heath as their interrelated experiences speed toward the conclusion and an eventual collision; the events are interwoven cleverly and in a manner which maximizes the tension. While Anna is attempting to find the third girl and reconstruct events, a dark force settles over the park as small animals are found tortured and killed and the pieces of the puzzle which she is attempting to solve do not seem to fit together. Meanwhile, the girls have bonded with Heath Jarrod, and gradually provide her with a sense of purpose which helps her escape from the cocoon which has enclosed her. However, soon the evil which seeems to lurk just beneath the surface of the case attacks Heath and simultaneously further disrupts the girls' lives. It is becomes increasingly clear that this is a story that involves a sociopath who undoubtedly will stop at nothing, including murder, to cover his/her tracks; the tension builds dramatically as the story proceeds and it becomes clear that it is unlikely that further psychological damage to the girls can be avoided and murders are likely to occur before the mystery is resolved. It is not only a dark and unsettling story, as other reviewers have indicated; in addition to the psychological violence the reader endures several gruesome scenes, there is quite a bit of depravity, and obviously a considerable amount of outright violence ensues.  <br /> <br />The characteristics which I have just used to summarize this novel were the reason that I reduced my rating from a full five stars and they would normally have caused me to round it down to four stars; I debated extensively before I finally decided to award it five stars instead. I did so because the HARD TRUTH is that the author here truly  excels at the things which she usually does well. First, she evokes an aura of authenticity, both in the wonderful sense of place which she creates and also in her description of the benefits and drawbacks of a Park Ranger work. Second, her characters are very well drawn; while this story involves a lot of very intense activity, it is still primarily a psychological drama in which human emotions are the dominant element. Third, as usual, the  plot is very well constructed and results in a compelling story. Fourth, the continued character development of Anna Pigeon is intriguing; I enjoy book series where the reader can develop a familiarity with the central character over time without becoming bored. Fifth, given the intensity and depressing nature of the story, the ending was relatively hopeful if not actually upbeat for at least some of the central characters. Last, the lack of closure and residual curiosity regarding the outcome for the majority of the characters who had uniformly suffered severe emotional and physical damage (Heath Jarrod, the lost girls, the women of the Mormon enclave) was effectively handled by Anna's closing reflection on the immediacy of her job as a law enforcement officer and the fact that the aftermath had to be handled by others. My biggest regret was that Wiley's role, while central at certain key points, was nevertheless so minimal. I always enjoy the addition of dogs to a narrative when appropriate, and Wiley's character  certainly called out for greater inclusion.  <br /> <br />Caution: If you are a reader who internalizes the stories whichyou read and are a Mormon, the portrayal of the fringe sect of that religion in this story may upset you. It is in fact an integral element of the story; without providing spoilers I can only say that it is extremely unflattering to the practioners of that religion who still believe in polygamy and/or the infallibilty of its earthly leaders. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-04-06
US	50223242	R1J1FKREU1H1Y8	0399152083	55533213	Survivor in Death	Books	5	18	25	N	N	(4 1/2) Nixie Swisher Steals the Spotlight	This is the twentieth book book of the futuristic detective series written by Nora Roberts using the pen name J.D. Robb; it is generally referred to as the In Death Series due to the fact that all twenty titles consist of only three words of which the final two are always In Death. This one is very aptly titled, since the plot revolves around the sole survivor of an horrific family slaughter which is described in detail in the prologue and opening chapter of the book. This is the first book in the series that I have read; the necessary background information is woven into the story in a way that made the book very enjoyable as a standalone read. In fact, based upon some comments of other reviewers I believe that I might have benefitted by not being exposed to some of themes regarding the lives of the recurring characters that have been dwelt on at length in previous volumes. <br /> <br />This is a detective story/police procedural which takes place in a still recognizable locale in the near future - the Upper West Side of New York City in the year 2059. The choice of 2059 by the author is very clever - it is just far enough in the future not to be limited by current technology but rather can use its plausible projections with the need to be limited only by some internal consistency rather than reality. In fact most the of technological advances it utilized with regard to IT systems, electronic devices and communication equipment seem quite possible, although in some other areas the advances seem in the realm of the eventually projectible rather than to be a likelihood within the next sixty years. This is especially true of advances in vehicle transportation and the degree of development of off-earth settlements, but I have no complaints since these are devices which are almost throwaway details whose effect is to add interest to the story but which are not central to the plot development.  <br /> <br /> NYC Homicide Detective Lieutenant Eve Dallas arrives at a scenewhere the Swisher family members and their housekeeper, Inga Snood, lie murdered in their beds along with a family guest. A high tech alarm system was negated and the sophistication and violence of the murders appear military like in their efficiency and ruthlessness. Furthermore, the house is totally devoid of clues, not one shred of telltale evidence is discovered at the scene by the high tech equipment available in that era. Then Eve suddenly discovers a survivor - the Swisher's traumatized daughter, nine-year-old Nixie, is covered with blood but has escaped the killers' rampage due to a fortunate twist of fate. In fact, Nixie is an eyewitness who actually observed the murderers from her hiding place and now needs a secure place to stay whose location can be kept secret from the killers. Thus Dallas calls upon all her skill and the resources of the Police department, both to help her solve the case and to protect Nixie. This includes her partner Delia Peabody, still recovering from severe injuries suffered only three weeks earlier and perhaps returning to duty before being at full strength, and also, of course, her husband Roarke who can use his considerable resources in ways not always available to the police. Thus begins a fast moving, often tense, clever and extremely well plotted police procedural/action story. Then suddenly the conclusion comes at the reader in a blur of violence. There are even has a few hilarious asides to relieve the tension, such as the amazement of some of the urban dwellers of NYC that people actually still reside in the rural nether regions of Nebraska and Wyoming.  But the police story alone would not deserve a five star rating.  <br /> <br />What elevated this book for me were the elements which turned it into a novel chronicling an intense human drama of not only death but also emotional trama, human frailty, self-doubt and the search for justice and perhaps some answers which could provide a measure of peace and closure for NIxieeven if if not complete redemption for Dallas. Dallas' discovery of Nixie immediately causes her to recall the demons of her past (with which she still struggles and which often occasion horrific nightmares with which Roarke and Dr. Charlotte Mira are still trying to help her cope). Thus, it is difficult for Dallas to deal with Nixie (both as an eyewitness and to provide her the support which she needs); Dallas' lack of understanding of children and her inabilty to interact with them distress her, as does the fact that she has to rely on Summerset, Roarke's most loyal employee and in many ways her nemesis, to help care for Nixie and keep her safe. The psychological tension is palpable, and Dallas tries to avoid it by immersing herself in the search for the killers, not only to fulfill the promise which she made to Nixie that she would find them and \\"put them in a ... cage\\" but also as the obvious way in which she can avoid dealing with the affection, contact and understanding which NIxie needs. Thus, Nixie becomes the central character, not only because it is becomes increasingly clear that her life is still at risk, but because she directly or indirectly is responsible everything Dallas does. She is wise beyond her years, not just her intelligence but in the simple emotional logic which she applies to the situation. Her confrontation with Dallas where she avoids Dallas' self-protective attempts to distance herself by simply declaring that she has figured out that Dallas is not really mean is very effective. But the most extraordinary scene occurs in the morgue when Nixie says goodbye to her family, draws Dallas in against her will, and talks about her concerns regarding that day and the fact that she alone survived. In its simplicity it is one of the most powerful and emotional scenes which I have read in popular literature, a real tear jerker. This story involves powerful human emotions exposed and rubbed raw. <br /> <br />In comparison to most books which I ratehighly and part of a series which include several predecessors, my reaction to the conclusion of this novel was that I am much more interested in reading the undoubted sequels than the earlier works. This is both because the author did such a good job of providing the necessary background information and because this story literally cries out for a sequel which examines the aftermath of this case for Dallas and Roarke. (However, I am tempted to read NAKED IN DEATH, the first story and recently rereleased in order to see how it all began and learn how much the characters have evolved.) The major reason for my subtraction of a half star from my rating was the detailed depiction of extreme violence, not only in the scene of the initial murders but also additional ones connected to this case and some of the flashbacks involving Dallas' and Roarke's childhoods.   Despite the fact that this violence was admittedly an essential element of the story and in no sense gratuitous, I still found it discomforting. I had a few other minor quibbles about some details including what I regarded as some of the improbabilities of the futuristic elements; however, none of them keep me from highly recommending this story. Finally, the quote from Milton's PARADISE LOST that Roarke utters to describe Nixie as they leave the morgue is by itself worth paying the price of the book and taking time to read it.  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-03-30
US	50223242	R25LKT127S8GOM	0743254880	686805874	Entombed (Alexandra Cooper)	Books	4	10	14	N	N	(4 1/2) For Poe Fans but Not for Claustrophobes	As a long time resident of the NYC region, Linda Fairstein's name and reputation were well known to me even before she published her highly acclaimed nonfiction book SEXUAL VIOLENCE in 1994 and subsequently launched her string of fiction best sellers two years later with the novel FINAL JEOPARDY. Her high profile legal career spanned twenty-five years and included leadership positions in the Sex Crimes Unit of the Manhattan District Attorney's Office. (In fact, arguably it was the success of this unit that led to the highly successful television spin-off series - LAW AND ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT.) Detective stories and novels involving our legal system are among my favorites. Thus, since I was already familiar with the author's reputation, when I read a summary description of the intriguing plot of ENTOMBED, I decided to purchase it. Despite some minor reservations detailed at the end of this review, upon reading it I was captivated by the story.  <br /> <br />The book opens with Detective Mercer Wallace and Assistant DA and sex crimes prosecutor Alexandra (Alex) Cooper (who is the first person narrator of this novel) examining the site of an attempted rape and murder on the Upper East Side of New York City. Immediately after visiting the victim, Annika Jelt, an exchange student from Sweden, in the hospital, they are notified by the chief serologist of the medical examiner's office that DNA from a cigarette butt near the scene identifies him as The Silk Stocking Rapist, a never identified assailant who had disappeared four years ago after a series of attacks (in which the women were bound and raped) all of which occurred in that same neighborhood. A very interesting discussion then ensues between Alex and her boss Paul Battaglia, the DA of New York County (Manhattan) about the legal and political ramifications of Alex's intended strategy of indicting the rapist as John doe based on his DNA profile in order to avoid the statute of limitations with regard to his earlier crimes. This discussion epitomizes one of the most enjoyable aspects of the book for me and in fact a major reason for my strong recommendation; namely, the ability of Fairstein to transmit her knowledge of both the law and police procedures to her readers in an interesting context.  <br /> <br />The focus of the story then abruptly changes that evening when Alex is present at a reception in a nineteenth century lower Manhattan brownstone and workers in the basement discover a human skeleton standing ENTOMBED behind a brick wall. The building was briefly the residence of Edgar Allan Poe, and thus the scene seems reminiscent of his fiction including his ruminations on the topic of the terror of being buried alive, which the evidence seemingly indicates was the fate of the person whose skeleton has been uncovered. Suddenly, however, the impact of the discovery is magnified when forensic evidence indicates that this murder occurred within the last twenty-five years, rather than over a century ago. Instead of calling in a detective from the local precinct, Alex immediately notifies her friend detective Mike Chapman in the hope that he will be able to asume jurisdiction of a case which immediately fascinates Alex. <br /> <br />While these two tangentially connected cases are the focus of the novel, in many ways it is what I term a very well constructed slice-of-life book. Other cases and her routine assignments have to be addressed by Alex, and in addition the author provides sufficient background detail with regard to the three central law enforcement figures from her previous books (Alex, Mercer, and Mike) so that this works very well as a standalone story. Then suddenly at a crucial point in the narrative a major tragedy occurs involving one of these close friends and series protagonists and thus threatens to disrupt their investigation of both cases.  There is excellent character development, and I would guess that in many ways this book accurately portrays thenature of the author's experience and relationships as a DA. (Probably not coincidentally, Alex is incredibly sharp, not just as a legal mind but as an investigator with keen insights as well. in fact she and Poe are clearly the costars of this novel.) <br /> <br />In summary and much to my surprise, the elements of this novel which offered me the most enjoyment and were of most interest to me were the factual elements in the backdrop for the story (especially since I have no desire to think about being ENTOMBED alive). First, as I have previously mentioned, the legal details were very cleverly inserted at various points during the narrative. Second, there is an incredible amount of interesting information concerning not only the New York Botanical Garden (a crucial location in the story) but also several other venues of NYC, most notably the ninety bronze busts (including Poe) at the Hall of Fame for Great Americans, the first such collection in the country and so famous in an earlier era that it was celebrated by the Munchkins in THE WIZARD OF OZ. Third, and by far the greatest source of my enjoyment was the methodology by which details about Poe's life and work were interwoven into the story in a totally seamless manner. In the acknowledgements addenda to the book Fairstein discusses her longstanding fascination with Poe and the pleasure she derived from researching the details of Poe's life and rereading his literary works. In fact, this celebration of Poe's all too brief life and the historical knowledge which it imparted gave me the impetus to get out my poetry anthology and reread several of his poems including ANNABEL LEE, THE CITY BY THE SEA, and his most well known work, THE RAVEN. <br /> <br />After much deliberation I decided to round my rating down to four stars rather than give ENTOMBED the highest five star rating. My first and least important reason for not rating this book five stars was the author's tendency to be a little verbose at times. I think that the book would have benefitted from some tighter editing; on several occasions the minute details which were included slightly detracted from the flow of the action. I actually prefer quite a lot of detail to the outline type of action stories epitomized by James Patterson, but this book seems to cross an admittedly fine and inexact line in the opposite direction and at times engages in unnecessarily prolonged exposition regarding minor points. There are two other more serious problems that I had with the story; while neither interfered with my enjoyment while I was reading it they did slightly lessen my satisfaction upon completing the book. Unfortunately, I can only give a brief and description of these two items without providing spoilers. First, there were a few unresolved aspects of the plot and some ambiguities regarding one of the central characters that I wanted to be answered. (After all, this is a novel; it does not have to mirrror life so exactly that such loose ends, even if not central to the plot, cannot be tied up by the architect of a fictional story even if they must by necessity remain unresolved in real policework.)  Finally, the tension between two of the continuing characters in Fairstein's novels which played out over the final three pages was quite unsettling and a bit of a downer. Since this is the first book by Fairstein that I have read, it may be that this is a technique which she uses as a bridge to her next story; however, given the emotional trauma which had occurred during the course of these cases, I would have preferred more closure (even if not a happily ever after conclusion). I want to stress that these are not major complaints; the plot was excellent and the outcomes of the two major cases were satisfactory; and I strongly recommemd this novel. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br /> <br />	2005-03-27
US	50223242	R8A4U65KLPV1B	0399152407	412179057	Cold Service (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	5	48	59	N	N	REVENGE IS A DISH BEST SERVED COLD	My review title is the epigram which introduces this outstanding novel by Robert Parker and which together with the book jacket illustration summarizes the storyline. However, despite the fact that this thirty-second entry in Robert Parker's Spenser series is as usual told in the first person with Spenser as the narrator, Hawk's and Spenser's usual roles are reversed. In fact, Spenser begins the story with the words \\"It started without me\\". With Spenser, we then learn from Hawk, tethered to an IV line and constantly monitored by the staff at the hospital where he is recovering, that he was shot \\"three times in the back with a big rifle [by a] good shooter [who} grouped all three shots between [the} shoulder blades [but luckily] missed the spine, missed the heart \\" and thus left Hawk to recover and seek revenge.     Hawk had been hired by a bookie, Luther Gillespie, to protect him after he had been threatened by the Ukranian mob trying to take over his book. Hawk has learned that after he went down they killed Luther, his wife, and two oldest kids, sparing only the youngest son who was in day care and now will be raised by his grandmother. Thus, Hawk knows that after a long and difficult recovery, he will need to not only avenge the attack on him and remove any trace of fear and self doubt which would otherwise remain, but more importantly he can most effectively make whatever amends are possible to Luther for failing to protect his family by somehow insuring the future security of Luther's orphaned young son. As Hawk summarizes the situation to Spenser, \\"I want to know who they are and where they are. And I want to know they did it. Not think it, know it.\\" To Spenser's admonition that Hawk \\"won't be ready even if we know who and where\\", Hawk replies \\"sooner or later, I'll be ready. And I'll know it when I am.\\" And of course the die is set when Spenser replies simply but meaningfully, \\"and when you are we'll go.\\" This is the quintessential Spenser-Hawk relationship,where the most important things are often left unsaid.    The bond between Hawk and Spenser is so strong that as information is painstakingly gathered and the outline of a plan of action develops,  Spenser realizes that he may eventually have to chose between betraying his own principles to help Hawk or betraying that lifelong bond with Hawk. As events unfold, Spenser and Susan engage in frequent discussions in which she attempts to provide him both support and insight into the situation in which he has been thrust and the code of honor which guides the plan for retaliation which gradually takes shape. As the plans which will almost certainly result in several additional deaths move toward their inevitable climax, Susan eventually summarizes the situation for Spenser by quoting the writer E. M. Forster, \\"who said that if he had to choose between betraying his country and betraying his friend, he hoped he'd have the courage to betray his country\\". The conversation that follows is the culmination of all the events that have bound Susan and Spenser and Hawk together throughout this marvelous series, and concludes with her helping him understand that his character and his life to date have preordained his decision to \\"stay with Hawk', and that he is strong enough so that the consequences will eventually pass and he will forgive himself, or as he summarizes the situation \\"the truth will set you free\\". But she does then burden him with the knowledge that he is of course not only risking his life but hers as well, since if he gets killed she \\"will want to die, too\\". Pretty heady stuff for a story seemingly about the criminal elements that inhabit the darker side of Boston and human nature.    The most intriguing aspect of this story for Spenser devotees is the fact that it reprises the wonderful SMALL VICES, published seven years ago and subsequently made into a television movie starring Joe Montegna which undoubtedly introduced many viewers to the Spenser magic. Just as that episode inevitably and permanently altered Spenser's life and relationship with Susan, this episode brings new understanding to Hawk about both the power and frailty of human relationships, not only his bond with Spenser and Susan but also through the stress that his girlfiend Cecile endures and his sense of responsibilty for Luther's son. Many of the series' characters familiar to Parker's readers form part of the uneasy alliance necessary for Hawk to exact his revenge. These include brief appearances by Quirk, Healy, Henry Cimoli and Rita Fiore and the essential involvement of Tony Marcus and his lieutenant Leonard, Vinnie (the shooter), and the shadowy government operative known as Ives. However, the most intriguing symmetry by far is the crucial role played by The Gray Man, the individual known as Rugar in SMALL VICES but a man of many names, the consummate professional who had almost killed Spenser. Rugar's knowledge of Ukranian and his survival skills (combined with the fact that their objectives are aligned given the assignment that Rugar has undertaken for Ives) causes Hawk and  Spenser to enter into an uneasy but extremely necessary alliance of convenience with him as the best means of succesfully implementing the plan which they have evolved  As Spenser had parted with Rugar following the conviction of the murderer of Melissa Henderson as the final consequence of the chain of events which had then resulted in the payment of their debts to each, he was left to wonder if \\"not killing [Rugar] may have been an error\\". The lack of closure in that novel clearly appeared ominous for Spenser and undoubtedly had left many readers wondering with Spenser if he would indeed be fortunate enough to escape death again when and if they met in the future. Now, in a story that involves Spenser again defining who he is and realizing the costs of that self discovery, the reader gets to accompany Spenser not only on the journey in search of his honor and perhaps his soul itself, but also once again has to be concerned about the role of The Gray Man, who is the undoubtedly most dangerous opponent that Spenser has ever faced because he is as consummate a professional as Spenser but without any apparent morality except for his loyalty to whomever his current employer might be.    This novel is Spenser at his best even while in a subsidiary role to Hawk - spare dialog, adherence to honor, deep love for Susan, and still devoted to a code of honor even when that may be difficult to define. Furthermore in an interesting twist, while Spenser plays a subordinate role to Hawk in this story, the fact that so much of the violence which occurs is psychological means that Susan plays a much more central role than usual.  This novel is highly recommended, and while it is perfectly adequate as a standalone work, its enjoyment will clearly be heightened for those long time Spenser fans steeped in his lore and who have read and fondly remember SMALL VICES.      Tucker Andersen	2005-03-15
US	50223242	R3KM9SC2Q61532	0892967544	724758185	First Degree	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	(4 1/2) Read FIRST DEGREE Second	FIRST DEGREE is a sequel that will delight the fans of David Rosenfelt's five star debut novel OPEN AND SHUT (review 10/23/2004). The following summary from my review of that book is equally applicable here. This is neither a novel of lasting historical significance or a truly overwhelming literary achievement. Rather it is a story that is great fun to read because of the enjoyable protagonist that the author has created to be the narrator. The story is related in the first person by attorney Andy Carpenter, who lives and practices law in Paterson, New Jersey. Andy's reputation is that of an excellent criminal defense attorney who is occasionally willing to engage in whatever courtroom theatrics and bizarre behavior are necessary to gain a verdict of not guilty for his clients. This methodology of course endears him to most defendants but frequently tries the patience of the opposing district attorney and more ominously on occasion puts him in risk of being held in contempt by the presiding judge. He is often compared, not always favorably, with his father, the legendary and respected ex-district attorney Nelson Carpenter. <br /> <br />As readers of the previous novel will be aware, when this novel commences Andy is considerably richer and much more widely recognized than he was during that story. The wealth is a function of his receipt of a totally unexpected inheritance; the fame is a function  of the central storyline of that novel - his success in the high profile reversal of the sentence of death row inmate Willie Miller (who had been prosecuted by Andy's father). If you are a reader who enjoyed OPEN AND SHUT and have looked forward to following Andy's further courtroom exploits, this book will delight you. Howver, if you have not read that book, there are two reasons why I STRONGLY RECOMMEND THAT YOU READ IT PRIOR TO READING FIRST DEGREE. The most important reason is that paradoxically, in order to provide the information necessary to make this novel totally understandable as a standalone story, at various points enough background detail is summarized from the previous book that it would effectively act as a substantial spoiler to readers who became captivated enough by Andy and the other characters (and dogs) in FIRST DEGREE that they then decided to read the earlier book. Second, I believe that OPEN AND SHUT not only sets the table for readers of FIRST DEGREE, but is marginally more enjoyable for reasons which I will summarize at the end of this review. Thus, if you don't enjoy OPEN AND SHUT there will be no reason for you to read this book anyway; whereas if you do like the earlier novel as much as I did, you will have had the satisfaction of watching the plot in that book unfold as it was intended rather than already having summary knowledge of all the key elements of the story. <br /> <br />Once again, the author has managed to create a compellingly fast read. One interesting and quite effective technique is that there are frequent section breaks (usually between every eight to fifteen pages) but no chapter notations to stop the flow of the story. Just as with the earlier novel, this book begins with Andy reminiscing with regard to the importance of the words \\"opening day\\" in his relationship with his recently deceased father. They had shared memorable times enjoying the thrill of many season openers at Yankee Stadium; he is planning to continue that legacy  by \\"passing the sacred tradition on\\" to his only remaining family member, the irrepressible golden retriever Tara (who was an essential element of my enjoyment of the first novel given the resemblance of her personality to that of my own golden retriever). Of course, he realizes that this will require some creativity and adaptability on his part, and this event forms the delightful introductory four pages of the story.  However, Andy's and Tara's enjoyment of the day is interrupted by startling news from Laurie Collins, the chief investigator for his law practice and the woman with whom he has fallen in love. <br /> <br />Laurie stuns Andy with an announcement that former Police Lieutenant (and Laurie's boss when she was a detective in the Patterson Police Department) \\"Alex Dorsey is dead ... somebody decapitated him, then poured gasoline on his body and set it on fire.\\" Despite Laurie's contentious relationship with Dorsey, which was the reason that she had resigned from the Department, Andy is amazed at her totally atypical emotional response that she is glad that Dorsey is dead. Shortly thereafter, his amazement turns to shock when he is approached by a stranger, the mysterious Geoffrey Stynes, to be his legal representative in the \\"slight chance\\" that he is charged with the murder of Alex Dorsey. When the lowlife Oscar Garcia is charged by the police instead of Stynes, Andy is faced with the dilemma that crucial information which he possesses concerning the case is covered by attorney-client priviledge and therefore cannot be divulged to the police. Thus begins another murder mystery/detective story/legal thriller with frequent misdirection (of Andy and the police as well as the reader, who is seeing this unfold through Andy's first person narration of events). There are enough twists to keep the story interesting; then soon the case becomes even more personal to Andy than he could have imagined.  <br /> <br />All the main characters who remain alive from OPEN AND SHUT play meaningful roles in this story; hopefully the author plans to continue to evolve their personalities through future volumes of their exploits, combining the style of Robert Parker in his Spenser series with legal exploits more reminscent of Dismas Hardy in the books by John Lescroart. In addition to Andy, Laurie, and Tara, Willie Miller plays a significant role in this book including his introduction of a new friend to Tara and his discovery of a cause near the end of the story that will complete his rehabilitation and surprisingly engage Andy as well. Police Lieutenant Pete Stanton and disillusioned lawyer Kevin Randall (the owner of the Lawdromat which dispenses free legal advice while you do your laundry) also figure prominently in the story. To the delight of the author's fans, newspaper reporter Vince Sanders, Andy's secretary Edna, the \\"unchallenged crossword puzzle master of the Western World\\" and Judge \\"Hatchet\\" Henderson also reappear with their eccentricities integral components of this tale. .There is even a cameo apearance by Andy's former wife Nicole. In summary, this is another well thought out plot; the flow of the story is handled exceptionally well, the character development is uniformly good, the sports analogies provide marvelous insights, and Andy's wonderful pesonality makes the story sing and the reader smile.   <br /> <br />There are three reasons why I rated this book only four and a half stars in comparison with the full five stars that I gave to the earlier novel. First, the potential element of surprise of one of the really crucial twists in the story and its shock value is spoiled by the book jacket notes and some of the reviews which I read before purchasing the book. Thus, I suggest that if possible you avoid reading that information, but I suspect that most readers will have the same knowlrdege that I did before they ever start the story. While that is a minor factor in my downgrade, the other factors are more important. Second, even though the actions involved were a crucial element of the storyline, I was as stunned and saddened as Andy by the collateral damage to one of the good guys that resulted from the investigation of Dorsey's apparent murder. Third, and by far the most significant factor, was the fact that the mastermind behind Dorsey's death became obvious to me (and I believe many readers will share my insight) well before Andy made the connection. While admittedly sometimes it is easier for someone somewhat more removed from the frantic pace of the day-to-day investigative revelations and somewhat less emotionally involved than Andy to piece together the directions in which the clues lead, this fact nevertheless slightly detracted from my enjoyment of the story even though I still needed Andy to fill in the outline which I had glimpsed. Enjoyable characters, amusing dialog including Andy's wonderful sarcasm, moments of tense action, and the expected courtroom theatrics - highly recommended when you are in search of a fast paced light reading experience. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-03-14
US	50223242	RO0PS9P5PBEID	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	4	11	13	N	N	(4-) A Decide for Yourself Rating Guide of 1 to 5 Stars	This collaboration with fellow author Howard Roughan is in most but not all respects a typical James Patterson novel -  minimal character development, non-stop action, several murders, primarily chapters of two to four pages (but at least no empty white facing pages wasting trees and padding the page count) and enough plot twists to keep the reader engaged and the story hurtling forward. However Patterson fans should be warned, there are no appearances at all by either Alex Cross or any members of The Women's Murder Club. (I have not read the previous books by Roughan so I cannot comment on this work compares to those novels.) <br /> <br />The book opens with an attention grabbing prologue not for readers with weak stomachs entitled Whodunwhat that begins with the fateful words of which we are reminded frequently throughout the book \\"THINGS AREN'T ALWAYS as they appear\\" and which ends with the narrator thinking \\"I may not know what killed me tonight, but I know for damn sure who did it\\". The scene then immediately shifts to the fabulous mansion of hedge fund wizard Connor Brown in the suburban Westchester town of Briarcliff Manor and his dalliance with his fiancee Nora Sinclair, a highly successful professional with her own decorating business who Connor has met after the death of his previous fiancee five years ago. However, Nore immediately embarks on a business trip that is our first indication that \\"things aren't always as they appear\\". Next we meet a shadowy character known to us only as the Tourist, who is involved in a violent confrontation and robbery in the shadow of Grand Central Terminal. once again we soon learn that \\"things aren't always as they appear\\". Next we learn that Dr. Tom Hollis, Nora's previous husband had died a few years ago, and thus are not surprised when claims adjuster Craig Reynolds from Centennial One Life Insurance chooses to investigate the sudden death of Connor Brown. But once again, \\"things aren't always as they appear\\" and we aresoon left to wonder what are Craig's orders from his boss Susan and what role will their shadowy investigator named John O'Hara play. And the story has barely begun. The money laundering investigation which so interests the FBI has just been introduced and there will undoubtedly be additional violent episodes, not to mention the crucial role of Olivia Sinclair that will gradually develop as this drama unfolds.  <br /> <br />As my rating of almost four stars indicates, I enjoyed this book despite the faults which I will describe below.  But I think that it is a story to which readers will have widely differing reactions depending on their preferences and expectations, and thus have chosen to provide a rating guide below in an attempt to help you decide if you are likely to enjoy this story. <br /> <br />FIVE STARS - If you usually love Patterson's stories, this is better than most of his recent action murder thrillers. The plot is clever and the characters are interesting. This book will be a breeze for speed readers and is certainly worth the very limited time it will take them to complete it. <br /> <br />FOUR STARS - An ingenious plot and engrossing read, I actually had trouble putting it down. I also appreciated the fact that there was less explicit and detailed violence than in many of Patterson's books. But the character development of each of Craig Reynolds - the Tourist - Susan - O'Hara was uniformly disappointing, we got to know only Nora Sinclair in any detail at all. Furthermore, while I cannot provide details without including spoilers, there were several elements near the conclusion that were not dealt with in sufficient detail, even given the usual summary treatment of Patterson. The investigation of the Tourist and its relevance was a very clever plot complication, but needed a little more fleshing out to fully explain its relevance. Also, the final murder needed more closure, and the crucial letter went unexplained despite its utilization as an important plot device. A better editor was needed. (I am not alone in this opinion, it is shared by several other reviewers.) <br /> <br />THREE STARS - Overhyped - in no way is this close to the \\"2005 International Thriller of the Year\\" proclaimed on the bookjacket, nor does it \\"take thrills to the next level\\". And it certainly is not Patterson's \\"scariest novel yet\\", as the inside jacket summary claims. Thus, it is a disappointment. <br /> <br />TWO STARS - The usual superficial Patterson approach, if you don't generally like his work, there is no reason to buy this book. Instead, read the wonderfully crafted SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS or the engaging and heartwarming SAM'S LETTERS TO JENNIFER to see another side of Patterson the novelist. <br /> <br />ONE STAR - Cardboard characters, a plot with a predictable outcome, signifcant flaws and a style that insults a reader interested in character development and who expects chapters that encompass more than a single brief incident. <br /> <br />In summary, I am glad I spent the limited time that it took to read this book, and thought that the plot had great potential which was only partially realized. As usual, my reaction upon finishing the book was a mixture of enjoyment and frustration, since I once again felt that with a better editor and some willingness to subjugate his rapid pace of publication to a few rewrites and some expansion of the narrative thread (Patterson often seems to manufacture his stories rather than craft them), this definitely could have been a five star novel for a much wider range of readers than his usual fans. But it is tough to argue with the results, another number one on the best seller list. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-03-08
US	50223242	R1O6UTLZJN1Z0A	0810948478	14694491	Tequila Mockingbird: A Book of Animal Cartoons	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Buy Two Copies - One for Yourself and One for a Good Friend	Readers of THE NEW YORKER or even individuals who occasionally just peruse the magazine's wonderful cartoons will be familiar with the talent of Leo Cullum, who has had over five hundred of his cartoons published there since 1977. This marvelous collection of his animal cartoons from the pages of that magazine provides the reader with 124 separate opportunities (including the cartoons on the front and back cover) to smile, chuckle, laugh out loud and occasionaly sympathize and commiserate with the animals portrayed. As the author states in his introduction, \\"animals are masters of metaphor...[and] the area of the cartoonist [is] to take an animal's personal cliche and blow it out of all reasonable proportion\\" or to cause us to see it in a new light. Of course we have the chicken crossing the road and the early bird ordering the worm, but we also have the unexpected grazing buffalo on his cellphone confiding that \\"I love the convenience, but the roaming charges are killing me\\". <br /> <br />It's impossible for me to pick a favorite from among this universally good collection, but I will mention a few others to provide some further flavor. While difficult to choose among the several which include political commentary, my favorite is probably the lion looking with regret at his paw and exclaiming to his mate - \\"He damaged a nerve when he pulled ther thorn out. I'd have a surefire malpractice suit if I hadn't eaten him.\\" There are also several that simply include marvelous wordplay, such as the cowpoke explaining to his sidekick as he stands over the hogtied calf while brandishing his branding iron, \\"this part is easy. The tough part is instilling brand loyalty\\". But is is hard to top the title cartoon on the front cover, the TEQUILA MOCKINGBIRD dressed in Mexican garb and enjoying his drink at Jose & Rosa's Cantina. <br /> <br />As I hope it is clear, this book is highly recommended whether you are an avid reader of THE NEW YORKER or just one of the multitude of us whoengage in anthropomorphism with regard to our coinhabitants of the animal kingdom. Warning: this book does not include any of Cullom's cartoons involving dogs; those are in the companion volume SCOTCH AND TOILET WATER (review 10/18/2004), which captures the essence of dogdom and which dog lovers will enjoy but is not quite as highly rated due to the more uneven quality of that collection. in summary, as the title of this review advises, this is a book to share with others. If you need a gift that will bring a smile to the face of the recipient, this is a wonderful choice. But you'll want a copy for yourself after perusing it, so you might as well just purchase two now. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-03-07
US	50223242	R763WZKU9R6YH	0345464540	571416634	Top Dog: Marmaduke at 50	Books	5	14	17	N	N	For Marmaduke Lovers- Buy this Book but Don't Pay Full Price	This collection is A WONDERFUL RETROSPECTIVE on the past fifty years of more than 18,000 newpaper appearances by Marmaduke. Brad Anderson created the beloved character of MARMADUKE when he was in high school, and this collection provides a perspective on the gradual evolution of not only Brad's style, but also Marmaduke's character as well as the changing nature of newspaper cartoons. The book opens with an interesting foreword by Jim Davis and a wonderful cartoon which he penned of Garfield and Marmaduke together. After a brief introduction, the book is divided into six sections organized by decade; each section is prefaced by a brief comment from Brad Anderson.  <br /> <br />The sections are The 1950's: Marmaduke Takes Off; The 1960's: A Dog's Life; The 1970's: A Dog for All Seasons; The 1980's: Dog Gone Funny; The 1990's: The Greatest of Danes, and finally 2000 and Beyond: The Modern Times of Marmaduke. As Marmaduke devotees would expect, most of the cartoons are simple single panel black and white incidents which capture the essence of what made the strip so enduring, the constant humor of the situations which seemed to make Marmaduke a real dog who reminded his fans of how human animals can seem. There is also an interesting brief interview with the cartoonist at the conclusion of the book. <br /> <br />What differentiates this collection from the over two dozen previous collections (including an early one which turned me into a lifelong fan while still a high school student in the late 1950's), is that it spans the entire period of Marmaduke's existence, beginning even before he had gradually morphed from a generic huge mutt into the lovable Great Dane that he is today. Usually I can easily pick out a few personal favorites from a collection such as this, but I have tried to do so several times and always come up with a list encompassing at least half the cartoons in this collection. Sometimes the text is the key, but often it is Marmaduke's body language or facial expression that evokes my enjoyment of the scene before me. <br /> <br />In summary, there are some cartoons to smile at, some to enjoy life with Marmaduke, and some that will cause you to roar with laughter whether you are seeing them for the first time or the umpteenth time. In fact, one of the nice surprises was the memories this book occasionally evoked of long forgotten encounters with some of these cartoons. If you have been a fan for as long as I have, this will provide a nice stroll down memory lane. If you are a recent fan, you'll have the joy of discovering some long hidden gems. And this book should be kept in a place where you and your guests can frequently leaf through it for the smiles that it will occasion; it is not a book to be quickly read and then consigned to a bookshelf where in all likelihood it will be forgotten, My only caveat is that my five star review assumes that you will buy this book at a significant discount from its full cover price, which is exorbitant. As a Marmaduke fan, dog lover and long time cartoon aficionado, I am truly thankful that I was fortunate enough to discover this collection during my browsing for some light reading material. I strongly recommend it, and believe that you too will be captivated by the charm of Marmaduke's personality. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-02-28
US	50223242	RJ53X8QFWJZGZ	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	18	33	N	N	(4+) Fiction with Footnotes - A Science Based Thriller	This thriller by Michael Crichton is barely a three star novel but it is a six star discussion of the flawed science and scare tactics used to advance of the agenda of many of the extreme environmental advocacy groups. If you are a devoted Michael Crichton fan, there is much that you will recognize in this book - specifically, this is another novel where the author utilizes his scientific knowledge to develop an interesting plot which involves an extensive exposition regarding the underlying science interwoven throughout the development of the storyline. (His most successful effort in this regard is, of course, the discussion of paleontology and the potential of genetic engineering accomplished from DNA fragments in JURASSIC PARK. His  most recent prior novel, PREY, postulated a scenario which might result from the development of intelligent machines as advances in nanotechnology accelerate.) However, several factors differentiate this novel from all Crichton's previous work. First, real people, organizations and data sources are frequently footnoted in order to document the accuracy of the scientific arguments advanced in the novel. Second, a brief appendix lists the sources of the graphs which are an integral aspect of the debates regarding global warming and abrupt climate change which populate the  book. Third, there is a twenty one page bibliography which not only lists numerous reference sources but extensively discusses those sources. Finally and most importantly, there is six page appendix discussing why \\"politicized science is dangerous\\". <br /> <br />Nominally, this is the story of the efforts of the National Environmental Resource Fund (NERF), its director Nicholas Drake, and its major financial supporter George Morton to use whatever means are necessary - filing legal challenges, public relations campaigns, and perhaps even  radical activism - to raise public awareness of the dangers of global warming supposedly caused by the increased carbon based emissions of our industrialized society. Of course, not entirely coincidentally, if they are successful the heightened environmental concerns which they generate among the populace will also provide the continual stream of donations necessary to support the substantial budget now necessary to operate NERF.  <br /> <br />The first six sections of Part I consist of relatively brief descriptions of events in six widely scattered locations around the globe.  First a graduate student in physics working at the French Marine Institute in Paris is murdered after demonstrating the operations of the wave mechanics laboratory there to a beautiful young stranger. Next a mysterious stranger travels to the Malaysian peninsula in order to surreptiously purchase sophisticated cavitation technology. Third, a graphics designer in London becomes involved in the secret transfer of half a million feet of wire for anti-tank missiles. Fourth, an important meeting occurs at the International Data Environmental Consortium building in Tokyo. Two of the attendees are John Kenner, an MIT scientist, and Sanjong Thapa, identified as his Nepalese graduate assistant. Both Kenner and Sanjong will play key roles in the drama that unfolds. Fifth, a petroleum geolgist from an unknown firm arranges the lease of a small research submarine from Nat Damon in Vancouver, Canada. These five incidents all occur betwen May 2nd and June 8th, 2004 - this is a story which takes place in the present day. Finally, the reader is introduced to multimillionaire philanthropist George Morton, Nicholas Drake, and Morton's legal representative Peter Evans during an August visit to the Vatnajokull glacier in Iceland, where they are presented deeply disturbing information regarding the research being supported by Morton. Suddenly Morton gets an urgent call regarding the questionable transfer of some of his funds to an unknown organization and confronts Nick and Peter, both of whom deny any knowledge but pledge to investigate immediately.  <br /> <br />Upon their return to Los Angeles, Morton responds to a request from Kenner and Sanjong to meet with him without the knowledge of Drake and we meet Morton's assistant, the beautiful, athletic and talented Sarah Jones. Thus, the stage has been set, and soon the action intensifies just as George Morton is asumed dead after an automobile crash. Peter's faith in the \\"facts\\" championed by the environmental movement is gradually shaken as Kenner and Drake appear to be on a collision course and he and Sarah gradually bond as they face increasing danger during their attempts to unravel the mysteries surrounding Morton's intentions at the time of his death. Shortly thereafter, we meet the last major character, Jennifer Haynes, one of the leades of a legal team assembling the evidence for a significant lawsuit concerning global warming that Nicolas Drake has convinced George Morton to fund.The action rapidly moves to Antarctica, back to the Arizona desert, and eventually reaches a terrifying climax in the jungles of the remote Solomon Islands. Concomitantly, the interactions among Sarah, Peter, and Jennifer even add a romantic undercurrent as well. <br /> <br />Besides the voluminous scientific evidence which Crichton introduces, there are two extremely important points which he addresses. First, in the body of the novel he dramatizes how environmentalists have cleverly morphed their claim from gradual global warming to the more fearsome \\"abrupt climate change\\" without any facts to substantiate that claim. Second, his discussion in the aforementioned appendix of the great risks inherent in the increasing calls for the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol and similar actions on the basis of the \\"precautionary principle\\". Such actions often cause us to misapply resources at great cost to the poorest segments of the world economy. It is not sufficient to measure some absolute benefit; rather the key is to calculate relative benefits from the application of finite financial resources. E.g. at this point, money spent on clean water may provide much greater benefit to the world's population than money spent on reducing carbon and other particulate emissions further. And Crichton's message is simple, let's have the debate both about the facts and the alternative solutions. His goal is equally straightforward, to reduce what he regards as the unnecessary STATE OF FEAR that seems to further the agendas of many advocacy and political groups. <br /> <br />This book could become a fantastic movie, because Crichton would be forced to eschew his overuse of charts and footnotes which interrupt the flow of the novel's narrative. The movie action (and there is plenty) would sweep the viewer along ; instead the reader gets distracted at times by Crichton's passion to detail his concerns. In summary, I enjoyed the book, and am pleased that Crichton has decided to use his fame and devoted readership to discuss his concerns about political advocacy being confused with the \\"search for truth\\" which science provides us, and thus reducing \\"the pursuit of knowledge... to the quest for power\\". It is my hope that this book leads its readers to understand that while each of us is entitled to our own opinions and models (which are only opinions dressed up with mathematics and equations in light of the complexity of the variables involved), we are not all entitled to our own facts given the import of the political decisions being made. I encourage you to read it and discuss it with your friends, hope that you enjoy the story, and will close with a warning that there is one very brief and extremely gruesome segment which occurs in the jungle late in the story that I wished I had skipped over. (Its beginning will be obvious, I advise the sqeamish not to read the following few pages.) <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-02-28
US	50223242	R28G2E487MWJTE	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Riveting Tale of A Baker and A Clown	All six definitions of the word FANTASTIC included in my unabridged edition of The Random House Dictionary Of The English Language could easily be applied to this wonderful story, but I will concentrate on the two that most aptly describe my reaction. First, it is a story of truly \\"unrestrained imagination\\", as readers familiar with the work of Dean Koontz undoubtedly have come to expect. Second, it is \\"incredibly great\\", not in the sense of being a perfect example of what a novel can be, but rather in the sense of being a story which quickly captures the reader and carries him/her along in the rapidly moving first person tale told by  narrator Jimmy Tock, a thirty year old pastry chef whose storytelling ability and life's experiences quickly captivate the reader and make it difficult to return to the world outside this novel until you have finished the story. <br /> <br />The book is divided into six (unequal) parts, and the titles of these sections (with some elaboration), provide a convenient way to review the book. Part 1 is WELCOME TO THE WORLD, JIMMY TOCK, and describes the unusual (and tragic) circumstances which surround Jimmy's birth on August 9.1974. His grandfather Josef (a pastry chef, not a fortune teller) was lying paralyzed in the hospital when Jimmy was born, and in fact died at the exact moment of his birth after making ten predictions to his son Rudy (Jimmy's father) that would shape Jimmy's life. Four of these were facts concerning his birth (time, weight, length and syndactyly - fused digits) which immediately proved correct and five were dates on which Jimmy would experience terrible tragedies during the first thirty-one years of his life. As a violent storm rages outside, the tenth prediction is fulfilled when a traumatic event occurs in the hospital which involves another expectant father, Konrad Beezo - perhaps the greatest clown of his era, and which will in retrospect alter the lives of everyone involved and form the basis of Josef's predictions of future tragedy. This section also provides us sufficient background information about Jimmy and his close knit family that we can appreciate their individuality and yet the bond which they share. The plot device introduced here is vintage Dean Koontz, it contains the key premise of the flight of fantasy upon which the reader is invited to embark; Josef's sudden ability to foretell the future is in fact not nearly as implausible as many of the narrative devices routinely used by Koontz (e.g. in SOLE SURVIVOR or THE FACE) and its acceptance will draw the reader into a truly wonderful tale told by a very engaging narrator.  <br /> <br />The remaining five sections are organized around the five dates which cause an increasing sense of foreboding as they approach. Part 2 (which involves over one-third of the book) is titled MIGHT AS WELL DIE IF I CAN'T FLY; the first prediction involves Thursday, September 15,1994 - Jimmy and his family have no basis on which to judge the nature of Josef's warning, but the events which transpire on this fateful day leave Jimmy with physical and psychological scars which cause him to worry that his fate will forever be influenced by the tragedy which which occurred on the day of his birth and will be linked to Konrad Beezo, Konrad's baby son Punchinello and Konrad's arch enemy and father-in-law the aerialist Virgilio Vivacemente. Part 3 is WELCOME TO THE WORLD, ANNIE TOCK, which provides the background of Jimmy's life following his survival of the the events of that fateful September 9th until the next date on Josef's list, Monday, January 19th, 1998, exactly a wek following the birth of Jimmy's first child. <br /> <br />Part 4 is ALL I EVER WANTED WAS IMMORTALITY, the search for which obviously involves great danger for anyone who might find themselves in the path of the demented individual seeking such a goal. The last two sections quickly crescendo towards the grand finale as surely as any show under the circus big top. Part 5is JUST LIKE PONTIUS PILATE, YOU WASHED YOUR HANDS OF ME - a statement so filled with pathos that its actual utterance takes your breath away. Then the story races towards its conclusion, I AM MOONLIGHT WALKING, THE LOVE OF EVERY WOMAN, THE ENVY OF EVERY MAN. All the loose ends are tied up in a scene of great surprises and incredible power - ugliness and beauty, hate and love, violence and tenderness, the past and the future all intermingled. How many authors could manage to insert  the poetry of both Emily Dickinson and the pop music of Johnny Tillotson into the narration of his  story in a way which not only seems completely natural but actually enhances our respect and affection for Jimmy? <br /> <br />This is a story that charmed me with its humor and insights into the human condition while totally capturing my interest through the wonderful voice which Koontz provides to his narrator Jimmy as he recounts both the major events and the meaningful minor details which shape his life. Pay attention to those details, they often influence the future in very unexpected ways. And while there is frequent misdirection, it is always accomplished and always accomplished through cleverness rathe than trickery. Even the title is a double entendre, is it about Jimmy's LIFE EXPECTANCY (the age when he will die) or is it about what he expects from life? As the crucial free pass to the circus pictured facing the title page boldly exclaims - PREPARE TO BE ENCHANTED! <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-02-08
US	50223242	R6M93S7B2AHI0	0525948449	346222769	The Motive (Dismas Hardy, Book 10)	Books	5	28	36	N	N	(4 1/2) The Diz and Abe Saga Continues	THE MOTIVE, the latest installment in the excellent series of legal thrillers/police procedurals by John Lescroart, is an excellent sequel to the two previous stories in the series. THE FIRST LAW (review 2/9/2003) was a completely atypical story in the series - it involved an incident that would unavoidably alter the relationship of attorney Dismas (Diz) Hardy and Deputy Police Chief Abraham (Abe) Glitsky forever as well as create a significant inflection point in both of their lives and careers. THE SECOND CHAIR (review 4/22/2004) involves Hardy's initial attempts to regain his personal and professional balance in the wake of that incident. In that novel, Hardy agrees to act as second chair to one of his young associates who is tempted to engage in a plea bargain for her young client in view of the apparently overwhelming evidence which the SFPD has assembled. <br /> <br />This story begins with a case of arson which Arnie Becker, the lead arson investigator,  quickly determines also involves a doulble homicide. The victims (although burned beyond visual recognition) are eventually determined by the coroner to be Paul Hanover, a wealthy socialite with excellent political connections, and his fiancee Michelle (Missy) D'Amiens.  Dan Cuneo is the homicide detective immediately assigned to investigate the murders. However, Mayor Kathy West is deeply concerned about the murder of her friend and large campaign contributor Hanover and asks Glitsky to conduct a parallel investigation of the case to ensure that it is solved as rapidly as possible.This puts Glitsky in an incredibly difficult position, not only because of the breach of normal department protocol (even though approved by the Chief), but also because despite the fact that the official police investigation had confirmed the alibis of Glitsky and Hardy in the violent shootout (described in THE FIRST LAW) in which several policemen were killed, Detective Cuneo correctly remains extremely suspicious that they had played a significant role. Cuneo soon decides that Catherine Hanover, Paul's daughter-in-law who he had first met at the scene of the fire, is his chief suspect; he discovers that not only did she lie about her alibi and thus had the opportunity to commit the crime, she also had both the means and THE MOTIVE. <br /> <br />Glitsky believes that several leads have not been adequately pursued but hesitates to fuel Cuneo's resentment by actively investigating the case further. (He is also distracted by a personal emergency which threatens to completely disrupt his wonderful relationship with Treya, his new wife.) However, Glitsky's attempts to placate Cuneo and deflect his interest in attempting to locate new evidence in the Gerson affair are completely undone when Hardy, after an agonizing appraisal of the situation, agrees to represent Catherine Hanover. This decision not only raises the political stakes in the case, but also seems certain to cause a breach in his relationship with Glitsky, who has become increasingly fearful that Cuneo will see any further investigative attempts by Abe as proof of the fact that his personal relationship with Diz is sufficiently strong to cause them to attempt to subvert the law.  <br /> <br />While the the author provides enough background for this novel to be very enjoyable as a standalone read, it probably deserves no more than four stars on that basis. The emotion evoked by THE FIRST LAW is so raw that no summary can completely capture its intensity; thus while I actually did not rate that story as highly as THE MOTIVE, I strongly suggest that it be read first. While THE SECOND CHAIR is a transition story and is not essential background for this book, I nevertheless highly recommend it. As readers of Lescroart's work know, his character development is excellent and an integral part of the success of this series. The characters age as the series proceeds; their kids grow up, spouses die (as has happened to both Diz and Abe), and close friends can get shockingly murdered. Some cops are heroes and some are crooked, many are dedicated to the truth and avenging the victims but a few such as Cuneo have their own agenda. This is a worthy entry in the series, although the police work is often shoddy (including some of Glitsky's efforts), the courtroom scenes are riveting. Finally, while many readers will probably guess various elements of the murder plot; there is enough misdirection to keep the reader interested and Glitsky's dectective work at the end of the story leads to an unexpected twist that ties together the loose ends while providing a truly bittersweet conclusion. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-02-01
US	50223242	R4KTW29Q9PZAT	0525948430	518961183	Whiteout	Books	3	62	71	N	N	(3 1/2)  A Christmas Tale of a Deadly Virus	This story involves the juxtaposition of two currently popular plot devices. The first is one frequently utilized by the author in several his previous novels - thrillers based on the nefarious agenda of a group with motives related to a \\"headline topic\\" of current interest. (E.g. THE THIRD TWIN, which was published during the initial period of the debate over the ethical and practical questions regarding cloning). The second is the attempt by many authors to capitalize on the book purchasing aspects of the holiday season by incorporating (often in a quite nominal fashion) a Christmas element into a story true to their traditional genre, thereby appealing to both their traditional readers and a wider audience looking for a Christmas story. (THE CHRISTMAS THIEF by Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark - two star review 12/6/2004 - is an example of this trend.) Unfortunately, Follett's effort results in a novel that neither lives up to its potential nor is likely to satisfy his myriad fans. <br /> <br />The story starts off as a pretty formulaic thriller, Antonia \\"Toni\\" Gallo, the security chief at Oxenfeld Medical, a Scottish research firm, discovers a discrepancy in the BSL4 (the most secure BioSafety Level) on Christmas Eve and then discovers that lab tech Michael Ross never returned from his recent vacation. As Toni and her staff investigate, the stakes soon escalate and worries erupt about the potential for a virus to have escaped the lab. Toni is the central character in the novel, her career having been resurrected by Stanley Oxenfeld (the company's founder and research director) after her forced resignation from a promising career in the local police department had left her at a seeming professional dead end. Toni is determined to control the problem, both in order to prove to Stanley his confidence in her was not misplaced and because of the catastrophic nature of the biohazard posed by the involved virus. As the story proceeds, lab security is again breached and the problems of the police, Toni and her security staff, and the perpetrators are compounded by a ferocious blizzard that literally WHITEOUTs the entire landscape. <br /> <br />This engaging and well plotted scenario is juxtaposed with several intrapersonal struggles and potential love interests. Toni is attracted to Stanley but convinced that his interest in her is simply professional. Meanwhile, through an unfortunate circumstance Police Superintendent Frank Hackett is assigned to be the lead investigator on the case; he had unceremoniously ended his romance with Toni when she was forced to resign from the force. In addition, a local reporter refuses to stop pursuing Toni, both for information about the situation at Oxenfeld and to try to convince her to date him. At the same time, Stanley's Oxenfeld's dysfunctional family is gathering at his remote country house for the Christmas holidays, and when Toni is invited she is appalled that she will be forced to interact with Stanley's son Kit, who was fired by his father based on evidence of theft that Toni uncovered. A further complicating factor is the role in the story that will be played by the attraction of Stanley's teenage grandson Craig (Stanley's daughter Olga's son) to Sophie (the sullen  daughter of the fianc of Stanley's other daughter Miranda). Of course, the villains also are an intriguing group, especially Daisy, who seems to be a true sociopath.   <br /> <br />This is a very easy and enjoyable book to read - it is fast paced with the chapter titles consisting of the time sequence of the events evolved; it is composed  of short chapters (longer than James Patterson but in his style) which alternate among the various participants. It contains some occasionally moving sequences regarding human emotion, and the idea is actually quite clever. In addition, Toni Gallo is a an interesting and well developed character. <br /> <br />However, despite the fun that I had reading it, it was not what I orprobably other Follett readers expect and certainly not the book that \\"rockets Follett to a class by himself\\" as the dust jacket claims. The ending becomes foreordained, and while I actually appreciate that Follett concluded the story without the seeming obligatory violence and landscape strewn with dead bodies that authors of this genre often employ, the story gradually deteriorated from the standard thriller to a Christmas tale of love and betrayal, and the attempt to provide a feelgood ending went beyond the believable, particularly the last two pages of an unnecessary final chapter. For most of the time that I was reading this book, I felt sure that my rating would be a minimum of four stars. And I still want to emphasize that it is an enjoyable read and many individuals may consider it to be an interesting story; it will probably be especially attractive for speedreaders because there are few nuances and  there is little need to worry about complexities. Nevertheless, I decided to round down my final rating to three stars because my reaction to the contrived conclusion was so lukewarm that the more I contemplated the story in preparing this review the more I realized how disappointing it was in comparison with many of the author's previous efforts. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2005-01-14
US	50223242	R12JQMI5KJ0BE3	0446531081	880645124	Hour Game (King & Maxwell)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	(3 1/2) A Worthwhile Read Despite Its Flaws	As an avid reader of David Baldacci's previous books, I have eagerly awaited this sequel to SPLIT SECOND that was clearly telegraphed to readers of that book in its last three pages. Although HOUR GAME can be read as a standalone story by individuals who enjoy murder mysteries with complicated and multifaceted plotlines, I strongly advise that SPLIT SECOND be read first for two reasons. If you are not going to read both books, I recommend it more highly - there are less digressions and I found the author's technique more enjoyable. On the other hand, if you plan to read both books SPLIT SECOND provides background information and the initial character development of the two central characters. This will probably increase your enjoyment of HOUR GAME. The only area in which this book is superior to SPLIT SECOND is in the complexity of the plot, which I will comment upon in more detail later in this review. <br /> <br />Sean King and Michelle Maxwell are former Secret Service agents who have teamed up as private investigators in Wrightsburg, Virginia after both individuals have had their promising careers destroyed by different incidents while they were in charge of details involving the security of presidential candidates. (This is the background developed in SPLIT SECOND.) This book opens with a hooded individual who is apparently a copycat of the serial murderer known as the Zodiac Killer carefully staging a scene with a woman's dead body in the woods outside Wrightsburg. In chapter two, Michelle a former Olympic athlete who is still in remarkable physical condition discovers the decomposing body during a hard run through the area. Todd Williams, the local Police Chief, and Slyvia Diaz, the local M.E., are called to the scene and briefly discuss the situation with Michele and Sean, who soon joins her there. Michelle notices that Sean and Slyvia seem to be more than simply friends, and potential undercurrents of personal attraction and possible romantic involvement are in fact among the plot complications throughout the story. <br /> <br />Before the first autopsy is even completed, two teenagers are murdered in their car in a secluded area overlooking the lake on which both Sean and Michelle live; when the victims' watches are discovered set to two o'clock and three o'clock respectively (the Zodiac watch on the first victim had been set to one o'clock), it is clear that a sociopath is loose in Wrightsburg, a quiet town where the police are so unused to autopsies that they become ill when forced to be present while Slyvia examines the bodies. The local newspaper soon receives a coded letter regarding the first murder which indicates that the murderer has much more than a few copycat killings in mind. Of course, the HOUR GAME continues to be played as more bodies gradually are discovered; the townspeople increasingly panic; the FBI arrives as Wrightsburg becomes the focus of the national news media; and Todd Williams tries to keep some control of the situation by deputizing Sean and Michelle. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, the firm of King and Maxwell has also been hired by Harry Lee Carrick, a local attorney and former Supreme Court judge, to investigate a burglary supposedly commited by his client, Junior Deaver, a local contractor and handyman. Junior has been accused of a break in and robbery at the home of Bobby and Remmy Battle, the local aristocrats and partiarchs of a very dysfunctional family all of whose members will eventually figure prominently in the story. (Harry Lee is convinced that Junior is innocent of the crimes despite Remmy's insistence on his prosecution.) Bobby has recently suffered a stroke and has emerged from his coma for only brief moments while being cared for at the local hospital; their son Eddie and his wife Dorothea live in the carriage house on the estate.  Eddie's fraternal twin (Bobby, Jr.) died of cancer several years ago, and his very high strung younger sister (with a very interestingly placed tattoo) Savannah has just returned home from college. Other characters who figure prominently in the plot include the hired help at the estate, Junior's wife Lulu Oxley and her interesting profession, and several others including FBI agent Chip Bailey (who several years ago rescued Eddie from a kidnapper). Junior's case gets more interesting; the murders continue; Eddie seems attracted to Michelle; and I stongly recommend that you keep a notepad handy to keep track the interrelationships of all the characters and their roles in the numerous subplots. <br /> <br />In his attempt to totally envelop the reader with the realism of the story, the details which Baldacci includes are voluminous and become somewhat overwhelming. We are even exposed to extensive details of the Civil War reactments in which Eddie participates. It is once again clear that this is an author who is always attempting new and creative things rather than simply stick to a formlaic approach (as both the highly enjoyable WISH YOU WELL and THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN indicated). In this book he utilizes the technique of altering the narrative betwen the viewpoints of several of the participants. At times this is very effective, but during the middle sections of the book I found it to be somewhat distracting as the accompanying asides interrupted the narrative flow. Finally, there is a fine line between clever misdirection and withholding information from the reader which makes it impossible to foresee the outcome and anticipate the solution. In some instances, I felt that line had been crossed in this story. However, by the end of the story all the loose ends had been tied up (except the question of a further sequel - I hope there will be one, I really like the interplay of Sean's and Michelle's characters). So, five stars to Baldacci for a great plot and his attempt to continually reinvent both himself and his characters, but some criticism and a ratings downgrade for the unnecessary level of detail and a storytelling technique that I found irritating and bordering on condescending at times.   <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2005-01-03
US	50223242	R1NLSA56R9MS0P	0743262506	636355870	Alice in Jeopardy: A Novel	Books	4	11	12	N	N	(3 1/2) A Different Type of Ed McBain Story	This is the story of six days in the life of Alice Glendenning, a thirty-four year widow who has tried to maintain a veneer of normalcy in her life since her husband Eddie disappeared nine months ago while alone in a small boat during rough weather off the coast of Florida.  In order to support herself and her two children, Alice has taken a job as a real estate agent until Eddie is officially declared dead and she receives the proceeds of his double indemnity life insurance policy. While Alice is understandably still griefstricken over Eddie's death, she is attempting to move on with her life for the sake of the two kids, Ashley, her ten year old daughter, and Jamie, her eight year old son who has refused to speak since his father's death. <br /> <br />Suddenly on Wednesday, May 12th, ALICE finds herself IN JEOPARDY when she is hit by a car driven by Jennifer Redding while she is crossing Founders Boulevard to have lunch after showing several homes to Reginald (Webb) Webster, a prospective client who she hopes will finally be the source of her first commissions since joining Lane Realty. After having her broken ankle put in a cast at the local emergency room, she returns home only to be greeted by her part-time housekeeper, Rosie Garrity, with the news that her kids were not on the school bus that usually brings them home. As Alice is trying to locate them, the telephone rings and a woman's voice says \\"I have your children. Don't call the police, or they'll die.\\" Suddenly, it appears that ALICE's remaining hope for happiness in her future and perhaps even the children's lives are IN JEOPARDY.   <br /> <br />At this point the storyline could be expected to follow the standard Ed McBain police procedural template, but in fact it heads off in a completely different direction. First, it is not an 87th Precinct story with Carella, fat Ollie, and all the other crime hardened detectives from THE BIG, BAD CITY, rather it occurs in Port October, a small waterfront Florida town with a small town police department typified by detective Wilbur Sloate and his partner Marcia Di Luca, whose efforts to find the kidnappers are initially thwarted by Alice's fears that her cooperation with the police will further endanger her children's lives. But more than the venue is different; the story is told from the various perspectives of several of the participants, often with long segments of stream of consciousness narrative to provide the historical background on the relationship between many of the characters. Furthermore, the characters keep proliferating. There is Charlie Hobbs, one of the few friends Alice can turn to in this time of crisis. Soon Detective Sloate and his partner Di Luca in a juridictional dispute with FBI Agent Sally (Balloons) Bellew and her partner, Felix Forbes. Alice's ex-con brother-in-law and long haul truck driver Rafe unexpectedly stops by and soon her sister Carol is on her way from Atlanta. Then, Alice is distracted by a threat during a meeting with Rudy Angelet and David Holmes, who claim they have Eddie's markers for a large gambling debt. Of course, on a parallel track we are watching the activities of the blond woman who picked up the kids in a blue Impala and her black female accomplice. In addition, there are much more detailed and explicit scenes of seduction and bedroom escapades than are usual in the author's work.  <br /> <br />The surprise is that rather than being written as a straight kidnapping mystery - tense and deadly serious - this written as a parody, the police efforts almost seem like the Keystone Kops at times. The reader soon understands that it will be up to Alice to solve the mystery and rescue her children; thus the story's perspective is really that of a victim procedural. Furthermore, most readers will have figured out the kidnapper's identity well before it is revealed three quarters of the way through the story. And in another surprise from McBain, the reader becomes increasingly hopefulthat rather than this story simply involving the solution of another case and the capture of the perps, it might somehow manage to conclude with at least some semblance of a happy ending for Alice and her family.  <br /> <br />My decision to round my rating up to four stars was based on the fact that I believe that the author achieved his objectives and that the book was enjoyable on its own terms. The story was engaging, it was a very easy, fast paced read, and it contained abundant examples  of McBain's insightful observations about the fragility of human relationships and attention to details during his terse descriptions of people, places and events. Despite my enjoyment of this story once my preconceptions were put aside about thirty pages into the book, I certainly hope that his next novel is a police procedural involving our old friends, the detectives of the 87th Precinct. Thus, if he feels that it is necessary to experiment with his successful formula developed in the almost fifty years since the publication of COP HATER, whether it is to provide a fresh perspective for his readers or to keep himself interested, I hope that he returns to the type of very interesting approaches that he pursued in his recent novels FAT OLLIE'S BOOK (review 1/20/2003) or the truly enjoyable and creative (if depressing) THE FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH (review 12/26/2003). <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-12-20
US	50223242	R343CXOGWDZICC	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	5	238	261	N	N	Is This Book Just Fiction or Actually Fact ?	Nelson DeMille has managed a truly remarkable feat; to write a suspenseful, taut, interesting and engaging novel about the crash into the ocean off Long Island on July 17,1996 of TWA Flight 800. The book is written in memory of the two hundred and thirty passengers and crew members who perished in that midair explosion; in my opinion he uses the flexibility available to the author of a work of fiction to discuss the alternate theories of the crash and perhaps come closer to the truth than any other discussions that I have read.  <br /> <br />The supposedly fictional device which Demille uses to allow him to develop a believable storyline is that a couple engaged in adultery were videotaping themselves on a deserted beach near the site of the crash and caught the flash of light streaking towards the plane from the ocean surface that was seen by so many eyewitnesses but discounted by various alternative explanations in the official version of what caused the accident. Of course, the couple immediately flees the scene and as Chapter One ends they are entering their motel room and arguing about whether they should erase the tape or turn it over to the authorities given the huge personal price each of them would undoubtedly pay if their affair was made public in such a sensational fashion. (The X-rated scenes were very explicit and quite lengthy.)  <br /> <br />The story resumes five years later. The investigation has been concluded with an explanation (the explosion of volatile fuel vapors in the nearly empty middle fuel tank) that failed to satisfy not only the usual conspiracy theorists and but the many individuals such as myself who simply remained confused about several elements of the official version of the causes of the crash. John Corey, a former NYC homicide detective is now pursing \\"the second act of a one act life\\" as a contract agent on the Federal Anti-Terrorist Task Force. His second wife, FBI agent Kate Mayfield, who is also a member of the task force, asks John to attend the beachside memorial service for the victims of the crash. After the service, Kate decides to violate specific instructions given to all agents who worked the case never to discuss it with anyone except on a need to know basis and confides to John the reasons for her misgivings about the official conclusion. They discuss the seven major theories regarding the crash (death ray under development at Brookhaven Labs, underwater methane explosion, reflection of burning jet fuel, etc.); then conclude their evening in a manner that reminds John of \\"that X-Files episode where Mulder and Scully go ....\\".   <br /> <br />Kate and John are obviously conflicted about John conducting his own unofficial investigation regarding the possible existence of a definitive videotape showing the crash; they realize that their discovery may not only ruin their professional careers but could possibly be life threatening if there really has been a cover up involving foreign terrorists and the clandestine operatives of US Government intelligence agencies. Of course, the reader knows that they will pursue the truth whatever the price they pay personally, both because that is the sort of individuals who they are and because otherwise DeMille wouldn't be able to tell his story. And have no doubts, this would have been a wonderful story even if it were totally fiction; the fact that the author did such a marvelous job of never contradicting the known facts concerning the crash makes it absolutely riveting. The discussion of the obvious flaws in many of the wild theories that have been advanced (e.g. a military coverup of a stray missile fired as part of the naval exercises being conducted in the area that night) on occasion added to my knowledge of the events and made the story quite plausible.  <br /> <br />The fact that DeMille clearly had done a lot of research on the subject of the TWA 800 crash caused me to wonder how much of the material which he presents as fiction is actually disguised reality (in order to protect his sources). He states in his author's note that he has relied not only on published reports of the events but also on interviews which he has conducted with both investigators who worked on the case and eyewitnesses to the crash. Since the dissatisfaction of many of these individuals is well known, I strongly suspect that the anonymity which the disclaimer accompanying this work of fiction would provide for such individuals led them to be anxious to assist DeMille in writing a book which clearly is meant not only to entertain the reader but also to present an alternative theory of those events on the night of July, 17, 1996. (After all, how often has it been said \\"If only someone had their video recorder on that night\\"?) <br /> <br />I want to emphasize that this is not only an interesting speculative examination of the crash, but a really good police procedural. John Corey is an extremely interesting and entertaining character. His interaction with Kate is integral to the story, and some of the conversations with his former partner Dom Fanelli are priceless. (I really enjoyed the humor which Demille interjected into the story, both for the realism which it added to the character development and as a counterweight to the depressing nature of the subject.) As the story raced towards its conclusion (the general outline of which becomes obvious about fifty pages before the end), I was increasingly fascinated by how DeMile could end it without veering from the fidelity to all the publicly known facts which he had maintained throughout. I was not disappointed, although of course saddened both by the course of events and by the ambiguity that I knew would inevitably have to remain. <br /> <br />STRONGLY RECOMMENDED both for readers who just like a good thriller combined with an excellent police procedural and also for those who continue to wonder what caused the midair explosion of TWA Flight 800. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-12-13
US	50223242	R13D758352W8XI	0345453824	572584022	Murder List	Books	3	2	2	N	N	(2 1/2) An Excellent Plot but Much Too Predictable Story	This is a book marketed under false pretenses. It has only brief moments which can be characterized as deserving the book jacket description of suspenseful drama and tension, and it certainly is far from the murder mystery that the title implies. The premise is actually quite clever, that an obsessive sociopath gets hold of a \\"death wish\\" list of potential enemies compiled as a seemingly harmless exercise at a self-help seminar and starts murdering the individuals on the list. When the list's author, Regan Hamilton Madison, a wealthy hotel heiress is notified of the murders, she is not only horrified but soon led to fear for her own life as well. We have already been introduced to the murderer early in the book, and thus the mystery is not his identity but the reasons for his sick pursuit of Regan and whether he will succeed in his quest to satisfy his personal demons. The character of the murderer is by far the most interesting element of the book and the rationale for his obsession quite clever; unfortunately he actually appears only relatively briefly at various moments during the story. <br /> <br />The majority of the story involves two other intersecting storylines, with the murderer being use as the thread that ties them together. The major emphasis is on what might be called \\"Regan Madison Grows Up\\", and involves how this experience leads Regan to reinvent herself and finally free herself from the well meaning dominance of her life by her brothers. The second involves Cordie and Sophie, Regan's friends since childhood who convince her to join them in an attempt to expose a self help charlatan (Dr. Lawrence Shields) who they believe might have been responsible not only for defrauding his followers but perhaps even causing the death of one of them. (It is at one of Dr. Shields' seminars that the MURDER LIST was created.) The final key character is Detective Alec Buchanan, who has decided to leave the Chicago PD and join his brother as an FBI agent, probably stationed in Boston. However, Alec's and Regan's lives are both destined to change when his last police assignment is to act as her bodyguard in view of the apparent danger to her life. Voila! Soon it is obvious that a potentially interesting and suspense filled novel of detective procedure and character development is instead destined to become primarily a cute, predictable sentimental romance that suffers from really mundane and prosaic writing only interspersed occasionally with insightful commentary or interesting plot twists. Thus, this is a book which will probably be most enjoyable for speed readers who will find the plot and/or romance interesting and won't mind it's superficiality..  <br /> <br />My undoubtedly overly generous rounding up of my rating to three stars was a result by the following factors. First, the basic idea of the plot appealed to me and kept me intrigued. Second, this is a fast easy read, an uncomplicated story that doesn't pretend to be anything other than the escape fiction which it is. Third, I am still a sucker for a basic \\"justice is served and the hope for the future\\" story ending, and this is about as \\"feel good\\" a conclusion as there can be for the good guys. So, as chick lit with some murders thrown into the story it actually approaches a four star rating. However, as the suspense filled mystery murder that it is advertised to be, it barely rises above one star and is need of an editor who would have forced a comprehensive rewrite.   <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-12-10
US	50223242	R3QB143WLLP121	1400062527	623020428	In the Night Room	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Is this the Perfect Novel Jasper Kohle Seeks?	The fact that I considered all the following titles for this review is an indication of the many diverse ways in which this story can be viewed by a reader:  <br />  <br />CAN TIM UNDERHILL SAVE WILLY PATRICK FROM HER FATE ? (a somewhat weird mystery) <br /> <br />THE BLURRED LINE BETWEEN FICTION AND REALITY  (an examination of how a writer's experience influences his fictional characters ) <br /> <br />A STEPHEN KING TYPE STORY WITH TRACES OF JASPER FFORDE (an alternate universe tale)  <br /> <br />EMAILS FROM THE GRAVE AND A SEARCH FOR REDEMPTION (a tale of religion and the supernatural)   <br /> <br />This is the first book by Peter Straub that I have read, and it was almost immediately obvious how he came to collaborate with Stephen King on BLACK HOUSE and THE TALISMAN. It is weird, absorbing, thought provoking and intense. It is difficult to provide many details without divulging spoilers; in fact, several of the reviews which I read subsequent to my completion of the book would have significantly diluted my enjoyment of the story. Thus, in this review I will provide a brief outline of the concept behind the story which I hope will be sufficient to let potential readers decide if it is their type of fiction without spoiling the development of the story. <br /> <br />This book explores the intersection of several lives and the seemingly inevitable forces which brought them together. Its essence is partially revealed by the title of Part 1 (of 5), \\"Willy's Losing her Mind Again/So Is Tim\\". In Chapter One (a single page) we meet Tim Underhill, a novelist in great distress. We gradually learn the reasons for Tim's distress, which include the struggles involved in writing his current novel, strange emails which he soon realizes are from long dead childhood associates, the appearance of the ghost of his murdered nine year old sister, and the harassment of a seemingly crazed fan named Jasper Kohle who is searching for the \\"real book\\" hidden among all the published copies of LOST BOY LOST GIRL, Tim's highly successful last novel. (Of course, this is the title of Peter Straub's last novel, which received the Bram Stoker award and perhaps did as much for his recognition in reality as it has for his protagonist Tim Underhill in Straub's novel.) <br /> <br />In the next chapter (a mere two pages), we meet Willy Patrick, the perhaps even more troubled author of the Newberry Award (for YA fiction) winning IN THE NIGHT ROOM. (The identical title to the book the reader has just started is of course the initial indication of the examination of the line between fiction and reality that will be explored throughout the rest of this novel. Willy is troubled by her overwhelming emotional response that her daughter Holly needs to be rescued from the Michigan Produce warehouse to which Willy has been drawn, despite Willy's knowledge that her daughter and husband were killed in an accident which so traumatized Willy that she has only recently resumed a somewhat normal life after extensive treatment at a psychiatric facilty in Massachusetts. When we soon learn that Tim also spent time in a similar institution in response to the traumatic stress he suffered while on military duty in Vietnam, it appears inevitable that the strange events which are simultaneously happening to them will eventually cause their lives to intersect. <br /> <br />The remainder of the first section of the book describes the events impacting Tim and Willy in alternate chapters, and it is very effective in creating an increasing sense of foreboding for the future of both characters. As the novel subsequently races towards its conclusion, there are characters too numerous to describe. The complexity is indicated  by some of the more important, who include Mitchell Faber, Willy's mysterious and controlling fiancee; Tom Hartland, Willy's long time friend and confidante; Cyrax, Tim's otherworldly guide from the ancient empire of Byzantium; Merlin  L'Duith, the narrator of a crucial segment of the novel, and the avenger WCHWHLLDN, whose identity the reader is finally left to determine.  <br /> <br />In summary, this is a multilayered story that examines how we determine the reality of events. (I.e. are things what they appear to be?) It is about the lasting impact of evil, and at the same time can be viewed as a tale of how redemption and perhaps even salvation can arise in the wake of horrible tragedy. It is certainly also about the personal responsibility for our actions which confronts us all. Just as mind games are played with the characters of this story, mind games and word games abound for the reader. In this respect, the use of anagrams is another clever elementof this story. This is not a book for speed readers, the essence of it revolves around the details which are necessary to  follow the bizarre twists taken as the plot develops. However, if you are intrigued by the weird concept of reading a story about two authors living in an alternate universe who have written books bearing the titles of Straub's two most recent books, you will probably share my immense enjoyment of this book. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-12-09
US	50223242	R1XSINDZ2ZLU60	0743271556	632350853	The Christmas Thief: A Novel	Books	2	11	15	N	N	(2+) This Idea Deserved a Better Story	This disappointing story results from a suggestion to the authors by one of their editors that they write a story about the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree being stolen. That idea forms the basis of a plot that with a little more effort could have been a reasonably suspenseful mystery. Unfortunately, the whole storyline is revealed on the bookjacket notes, so the only readers to whom this will probably appeal are people just looking for a brief light feel-good holiday story or devoted fans of Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark. (In fact, this reads like a book written by a committee, it probably would have been a better story if one of them had taken on the assignment by herself rather than the two of them attempting to collaborate.) <br /> <br />Supposedly this is a Regan Reilly mystery, and Regan and her fiancee Jack Reilly as well as her parents Luke and Nora all do play minor roles in the story, since the tree destined for Rockefeller center is stolen from the neighboring property during their weekend in Stowe, VT. Simultaneously, Opal Fogarty, a woman  accompanying their friends Alvirah and Willy Meehan for the weekend, disappears and the search for Opal leads them to believe that Packy Noonan, a scam artist just released from prison and the man who had swindled Opal out her lottery winnings might be involved. Unfortunately, the story is told from the multiple viewpoints of all the main characters, so there are no surprises for the reader and the few attempts to inject any suspense into the story mostly fall flat. Finally, the trio of bumbling villians are more like the gang who couldn't shoot straight than dangerous desperadoes. Thus, this short book which makes no pretense of anything other than light holiday reading, barely even fulfills that criteria in its attempt to avoid any real tension and end happily. <br /> <br />Three elements rescued this book from a one star rating. First, the story is told in an easy to read manner, it's very brief andcan be finished  on a short trip or a stormy evening. Second, with the usual discount it is priced right. Third, it is after all supposed to be only a light feel-good Christmas story, and in that spirit it deserves a generous rating. Nevertheless, fans of the authors will undoubtedly find the more complicated plots of their other books and the greater degree of suspense which they provide much more fulfilling. Finally, for readers looking for a truly enjoyable holiday read (and obviously many publishers believe that there is a huge demand for the genre given the recent proliferation of books aimed at the \\"Christmas story\\" audience), I strongly suggest THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN by David Baldacci. That book (review 11/20/2002) succeeds in every aspect where THE CHRISTMAS THIEF fails. It really is a clever mystery which at least keeps the reader in suspense, although in keeping with the holiday tradition it eschews real tension. Baldacci's character development is far superior and additionally it manages to involves a wonderful romantic theme and captures the true holiday spirit. As a Baldacci fan, I felt THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN clearly revealed his skills as a storyteller and heartily recommend that book as far superior to this one.                                                                                                      <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-12-06
US	50223242	R23ZAOCKGCB3Z8	0316710598	224255669	London Bridges (Alex Cross Novel)	Books	3	8	13	N	N	(3 1/2) Another Frustrating Novel by James Patterson	CAUTION: Several reviews of this book by disappointed readers include significant spoilers in the elaboration of their complaints involving the plot. THIS REVIEW INCLUDES NO SPOILERS.  <br /> <br />The storyline of LONDON BRIDGES seems designed to captivate all Alex Cross fans. It includes his two most dangerous adversaries, the shadowy Wolf and the sadistic Weasel (Geoffrey Shafer), and revolves around a plot to blackmail the governments of the most powerful nations of the world by threatening to unleash widescale destruction in major cities around the globe. Part One of the story begins when a contingent of US soldiers evacuates the entire town of Sunrise Valley, Nevada  (population - 315) shortly before it is totally obliterated by a powerful blast of unknown origin. While Alex Cross (now an FBI operative assigned directly to Director Burns' office) is investigating the blast, the Wolf secretly contacts the US Government and outlines his nonnegotiable demands. He also threatens to commence his threatened attacks on major population centers if his demands are not met within four days or if any attempts are made to locate him. When the governments involved temporize due to their reluctance to strike a deal with terrorists, the Wolf demonstrates his resolve by staging incidents in other countries which involve significant loss of life. <br /> <br />Despite the cooperation of Interpol and all the intelligence services involved, only fragmentary and often conflicting evidence is developed regarding both the Wolf's identity or his resources. Of course, readers familiar with Patterson's villians know that they are all masters of deception and purposeful misdirection; unsurprisingly, the Wolf is perhaps the best ever at escaping detection and eluding his pursuers. As the countdown towards the twice postponed deadline occurs, the tension reaches a crescendo and the world seems to be out of options. What a marvelous plot! And implemented in typical Patterson style, extremely short chapters, non-stop action at a truly breakneck pace, and Alex matched against a truly detestable villian. Thankfully, the story also contains much less than the usual amount of  gruesome detail often involved in Alex's pursuit of the sociopaths which inhabit this series. While there is almost continual violence and death, most of it is described in a rather summary fashion and much of it is simply a reporting of the destruction resulting from the attacks initiated by the Wolf.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately for Alex Cross fans, most of the familiar characters in the series have very limited roles in this episode. While Jamilla Hughes, Christine Johnson, and Kayla Coles are all tangentially involved in Alex's thoughts about his future, they as well as Damon, Janine, little Alex and Nana appear only infrequently throughout the narrative. Thus, the background information about Alex's life and cases (including the Weasel and The Wolf) and his decision to end his role with the DC Police Department and join the FBI contained in the earlier books of the series make it likely that while this novel can be read as a standalone story it is likely to be more enjoyable to readers of Patterson's previous works. <br /> <br />The major problem with the story is the number of holes and unexplained occurrences. Even readers wiliing to accept the main premise behind the plot will have to suspend belief on multiple occasions as the story procceds. The pace is so fast and the action so compelling that this is often not immediately obvious, but upon reflection I often realized that seeming loose ends that I assumed would later be tied up and references which I expected to be illuminated were left completely unexplained. In a novel where intrigue and misdirection play such a major part, such clarification is particularly important. Unfortunately, while the author clearly realizes the necessity of such closure and near the conclusion provides the minimal backstory details necessary for Alex to seemingly piece together the Wolf's identity, this summary does not completely compensate for much of the explanatory material that has previously been omitted. In many ways this story seems like an outline of what could have been a great book; it resembles an interesting skeleton that needs some meat on its bones. I suspect that the story will appeal immensely to speed readers and others who primarily focus on the plot rather than the supporting details or related character development. But in this case the author shortchanges his readers, and my frustration and disappointment is increased by the fact that books such as SAM'S LETTERS TO JENNIFER and SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS clearly demonstate that he is capable of the careful attention to detail and more complex plot and character development that would have made this a superb novel rather than simply an undoubted commercial success.  <br /> <br /> <br />In conclusion, this is a story with a five star plot which is presented in such summary form that it is lacking both in crucial plot details and  meaningful character development. While such treatment may be familiar to readers of the Alex Cross series, they seem totally inappropriate when applied to an international political thriller rather the the usual murder mysteries for which Patterson is most famous. Thus, my rating is a compromise between the rating deserved by the excellent plot and and the author's two star execution of the idea. As mentioned previously, the more time I took to contemplate this story, the less satisfying it seemed.  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-11-28
US	50223242	R29PKYM4PAWQ89	0345465253	936069995	Twisted: A Novel	Books	5	52	61	N	N	Can Barbie and a Young Genius Catch the Murderers?	Warning #1: Alex Delaware does not appear in this novel; he is only mentioned briefly due to the fact that he has worked with one of the detectives previously.    Warning #2: There are some truly horrific murders described in gruesome and prolonged detail in this story. Normally such violence would disqualify a book for a five star rating from me, and in fact I might not have read the book if I had been aware of their inclusion. However, since in my view this depiction of detailed violence is essential to Kellerman's extremely clever plot, rather than reduce my rating I have chosen simply to warn potential readers that this is a book that has a true psychopath as one of the villains.    This is a police procedural that has it all: murderers to apprehend, character relationships to explore, and the tension of a race against time. Hollywood homicide detective Petra Conner (already known to Kellerman readers) hopes to take it easy after just solving two murders; however, she is awakened by a 1:15 AM call that four teenagers have just been gunned down in the parking lot of the Paradiso Club on Sunset Boulevard. Disappointingly, the eighteen \\"know-nothing\\" witnesses provide minimal information, no leads and no motive. In fact, the mystery is compounded by the fact that one of the young victims has no identification and as tare received matching her description. Thus, the department quickly reduces the manpower assigned to the case and it appears that it may end up in the cold casr file.     While Petra (you will also find out why she is called Barbie and what happened to Ken) doggedly continues to search for leads in that case, she is approached by Isaac Gomez, a twenty-one year old who genius who is writing his Ph.D. thesis in epidemiology and biostatistics. While Isaac researches his topic, which involves patterns of LA homicides, he is working as an LAPD intern assigned to Petra by a captain who dislikes her intensely. Isaac's statistical analysis has uncovered a seeming repetitive pattern linking several unsolved murders which previously seemed totally random and unrelated. Worse yet, if Isaac's seemingly bizarre analysis is correct, the serial killer will violently kill another victim in a few short weeks. After  some initial skepticism, Petra decides she needs to privately investigate Isaac's thesis even as she hopes that he is wrong.     Juxtaposed against these investigations but extremely central to the plot are the frustrations of Petra's and Isaac's private lives. Due to his Special Forces military background, Eric Stahl, Petra's former partner and current lover, has been sent on a secret mission abroad as part of the new Homeland Security Squad. Meanwhile, Isaac has to handle the dichotomy between his evenings with his poor family in the marginal neighborhood in which they live and the elite world to which his intellect has gained him access.     This plot definitely has more than enough misdirection and action to keep it interesting. Meanwhile, the tight timeline adds considerable suspense as the countdown toward the apparent date of the next murder rapidly proceeds. However, the real charm of this book is due to the expertise of the author as a clinical psychologist; he manages to continually capture the seemingly true to life reactions of the central characters to the unfolding events. In fact, the delineation of the characters was the overwhelming source of the pleasure which I derived from this book. I was especially captivated by Isaac, a precocious young man whose intellectual development had far outpaced his social skills, a fact which leads to many anxious moments and difficult situations. Finally, while there are a few minor errors and one obvious mistake near the conclusion, the author did a better than usual job of tying together almost all the loose ends in a way that actually seemed an integral part of the story rather than just an afterthought. Therefore, this TWISTED tale receives my enthusiastic recommendation despite the gruesome portrayal of violence mentioned at the beginning of this review.     Tucker Andersen	2004-11-26
US	50223242	R22PYFZZ1B6FLX	B0001H0A2K	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	(3 1/2) An Ingenious Plot Full of Emotional Violence	SLEEP NO MORE is a difficult book to present fairly in a review for two reasons. First, any discussion of the essential elements of the plot would involve presenting substantial spoilers, thus my summary of the storyline will be relatively brief and quite general. Second and more important, this is a book capable of generating both strong positive and negative emotions in a reader. (I was both capitivated and repulsed at various times while I was reading it.)  While the five star positive recommendations outnumber the one star critical pans by a considerable margin, this is a book that has clearly entranced some readers while at the same time deeply disappointing other long time fans of Greg Isles.  <br /> <br />To more clearly illustrate the positive and negative aspects of this story, I could easily have written reviews with either of the following two ratings and titles - <br /> <br />Five Stars - A Suspense Filled Exploration of the Dark Side of Obsession by a Master Story Teller; or alternatively, <br /> <br />One Star- A Gripping Pornographic Fantasy Utilizing a Totally Weird and Unbelievable Plot Device, <br /> <br />and fully justified either of those disparate ratings. However, neither extreme would do justice to the complexity of my reactions to the various elements of this story. In many ways this book is quintessential Greg Isles, an intense and gripping story used as the springboard to examine big issues in a nontraditional way. The ideas that this novel touches upon include obsession and depression, life after death, the pull of sex vs. the depth of love and the unintended consequences of our actions that often redirect our lives. And central to this story the question of whether our unique individuality is defined by our soul, our memory or our DNA? <br /> <br />In a foreboding and wonderfully written and first chapter, the author introduces us to all of the central characters of the story. The cast is as follows: <br /> <br />John Waters - a devotedhusband and father who is a successful oilman worried about an EPA investigation which could create significant problems for his business'  <br />Lily Waters - John's wife, whose relationship with John has been strained in the aftermath of a tragedy which occurred several years ago, <br />Annelise Waters - their seven year old daughter whose love unites Lily and John, <br />Eve Summer - a stunningly attractive realtor whose whispered comment to John at Annelise's soccer game frighteningly causes long buried memories of another woman to resurface, <br />Mallory Gray Chandler - the \\"other woman\\" in John's past, brutally murdered years ago (is Eve her reincarnation or an inincredibly talented con artist with a dangerous agenda of her own?), <br />Cole Smith - John's business partner and long time personal friend who seems to be disturbed by problems which he won't discuss with John, and  <br />Natchez, Mississippi - the town where they have all lived their lives, it holds their long hidden secrets contains the cemetery where Mallory is buried and where events will occur which will soon cause John Waters both to reexamine what constitute the most important things in his life and also to question his own sanity. <br /> <br />Greg Isles has created an extremely clever thesis as the basis of the investigation of the question of whether Mallory Chandler's obsession can reach beyond the grave to forever change the lives of John Waters and his family. However, the reader has to be willing to suspend belief and accept the underlying technique essential to the plot in order to experience the incredibly intense emotions of the story's characters. This is at times an extremely depressing story; by its very nature it cannot end well for many of the people whose lives it touches. In addition, central to the plot is an intense and almost continuous emphasis on sex (as obsession, as love, as fantasy, as a means of possesion, and often as a perverted physical act). In the context of the storyline this emphasis is far removed from pornography, but nevertheless it went far beyond the bounds of enjoyability and interest for me.  <br /> <br />This story explores very serious philosophical issues in an intriguing manner. Thus, I decided to round up my rating as the best indication of my overall reaction to the book. I got so drawn into the story and the mystery of who Eve Summmer really was that I had trouble putting it down while I was reading it. And right to the end, I was alternately turned on and turned off as the story proceeded. Even the ending contained a degree of duality; with one chapter to go I thought that it was going to be truly bittersweet and somewhat ambiguous, then the final denouement was incredibly clever but the resultant final paragraphs became almost saccharine in their sweetness and hopefulness. But then again, how can I object to a conclusion that only reflects the optimism which I feel about life? <br /> <br />My goal has been to include enough information in this review to allow potential readers to decide whether it is more likely to provide a one star or a five star reading experience for them. Finally, I would like to strongly recommend Greg Isles' book THE FOOTPRINTS OF GOD (review 9/26/03), which I found to be even more thought provoking than this book and which involves speculation much more firmly grounded in current scientific knowledge. It is a totally absorbing story involving the great questions about the meaning of life that exist at the intersection of philosophy, religion and science. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-11-15
US	50223242	R1VDAIA0ME8SH7	0312316798	529003673	Robert Ludlum's The Lazarus Vendetta: A Covert-One Novel	Books	4	26	28	N	Y	(4 1/2) A Nanotechnolgy Thriller with Nonstop Action	Patrick Larkin has written an excellent and exciting addition to the Covert-One series created by Robert Ludlum shortly before his death. The central protagonist is Army Lt. Colonel Jon Smith M.D., who was first introduced to readers in THE HADES FACTOR, the very fast paced initial book in the series. The other characters familiar to readers of previous books in the series include CIA agent Randi Russell and the British ex-MI6 operative Peter Howells, who team with Smith as he attempts to penetrate the secrecy surrounding the goals and leadership of an environmental group known as The Lazarus Movement. Fred Klein remains Smith's boss as the head of the ultra clandestine Covert-One operation that reports directly to President Sam Castilla; its very existence continues to be kept secret from not only Randi and Peter but even from the CIA and FBI as well as Congress.  <br /> <br />This book follows the classic Ludlum style, a thriller combining fast paced action, a convoluted plot and a few individuals fighting seemingly far more powerful shadowy forces; all these elements linked by a conspiracy that apparently involves high level government operatives. In brief, the original focus of The Lazarus Movement on peaceful reform of environmental policies on a worldwide basis has gradually been replaced by an increasingly strident emphasis on anti-technology protests and an activist agenda of protests and demonstrations in support of its demands for the adoption of its radical eco-conscious agenda. Despite the intense efforts of governmental intelligence agencies around the world, they have been unable to discover either the location of the organization's headquarters or the identity of its leader, a shadowy figure known only as Lazarus. Suddenly, violence strikes a remote Lazarus agriculture experiment in rural Africa; this event seems to legitimize the organization's claims of persecution at the hands of the governments who oppose its anti-development agenda and further energizes the activists who increasingly dominate the Movement.  <br /> <br />A major demonstration is planned to protest the scientific research being conducted at the Teller Institute for Advanced Technology in Sante Fe, New Mexico. This research involves some of the most highly classified and leading edge projects in the field of nanotechnology, the intersection of biology, chemistry and physics; projects whose potential to create machines so small that they could penetrate human cells and so powerful that they could be programmed to change structures at the subatomic level had allowed conspiracy theorists to sow fear with regard to both their misuse and their ability to eventually escape the control of the scientists who had created them. As the protesters assemble, apparently well orchestrated violence ensues which results in the deaths of many of the protesters, supposedly as the result of the inadvertent release of fatal nanophages under development at the Institute. <br /> <br />This story is an action filled thriller which uses nanotechnology as the key element of its story line, rather than a scientific thrller per se in the mold of Michael Crichton's PREY, which was a story utilized by Crichton to both inform the reader in detail about the technology and also aggressively promote his viewpoint concerning the need for scientific safeguards to be established with regard to such research. (See my review of PREY dated 12/2/2002 for a discussion of this issue.) This novel in contrast contains only peripheral discussion of the complex issues raised by the rise of cloning, genetic manipulation, and nanontechnology, such as when one character wonders \\"whether the speed of these advances...offers imperfect men too much power over themselves and over nature\\". However, these regerences only serve to further the plot, there is neither a deep examination of the technology nor an extensive and explicit philosophophical examination of the moral and ethical dilemmas the developers of such technology might encounter or the government's role in such development.  <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book for readers who like action thrillers where the plot is revealed through the adventures of the protagonists rather than through extensive background provided by the author. (There is sufficient background information woven into the narrative for readers unfamiliar with the Covert-One series to thoroughly enjoy this book on a read alone basis, although the nuances of the character developments in those books will obviously be lost.) I was swept along by the compressed time frame of the story. Wih the exception of the prologue and epilogue all of the action takes place within a six day period. I have only two reservations - which are the reasons that I did not rate it five stars although I was very tempted to do so given how much I enjoyed it. First, and most importantly, even for a book of this genre there is an incredible amount of violence, some of it very graphic. While it is not sensationalist in nature and is in fact essential to the storyline, I nevertheless found the detailed description of the effect of the nanophage attacks on their victims sufficiently gruesome and sickening (despite their brevity) to downgrade the rating slightly. In addition, some of the exploits of Smith and his asociates bordered on the \\"superhero\\" variety rather than the merely heroic. In summary, this book ison a par with the best action thrillers that I have read recently, especially in that it avoids the overly detailed background information increasingly provided by authors in an attempt to promote a feeling of realism but which concomitantlyslows down the pace and therefore unavoidably detracts from my enjoyment of so many recent stories of this genre. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-11-13
US	50223242	RCV46KYKG0DWG	089296748X	289602035	Open and Shut	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Good Story and a Fun Read	I enjoyed this book tremendously. Seldom does a writer's first novel strike the perfect chord with me, but David Rosenfelt succeeds with OPEN AND SHUT. This is neither a novel of lasting historical significance or a truly overwhelming literary achievement. Rather it is a story that it fun to read because of the enjoyable protagonist that the author has created to be the narrator. The story is related in the first person by attorney Andy Carpenter, who lives and practices law in Passaic County, New Jersey. He is a sports fan who believes that \\"the most beautiful sight in the world [is] the Yankee Stadium infield\\", and who spends his spare time with the best thing on the planet, Tara his golden retriever. In addition, his feelings concerning the Lincoln Tunnel as a means of getting from New York City to New Jersey are undoubtedly mirrored by thousands of commuters every day. That is, Andy is a delightful character whose personality is skillfully developed by the author. (The fact that I am a yankee fan who owns a golden retreiver and for years traversed the Lincoln Tunnel twice a day five days a week may admittedly have something to do with my empathy with his character.) However, his life is far from perfect. His marriage to his wife Nicole is on the rocks, a fact which disturbs his powerful father-in-law considerably.  This difficulty is compounded by his attraction to private investigator Laurie Collins, who is such a \\"beautiful, sexy woman ... [that she] ... would look great if she were wearing a Winnebago\\". <br /> <br />Andy's reputation is that of an excellent criminal defense attorney who is occasionally willing to engage in whatever courtroom theatrics and bizarre behavior are necessary to gain a verdict of innocent for his clients. This methodology of course endears him to most defendants but frequently tries the patience of the opposing district attorney and more ominously on occasion puts him in risk of being held in contempt by the presiding judge. He is often compared, not always favorably, with his father, the retired legendary and respected ex-district attorney Nelson Carpenter.  <br /> <br />Soon after the story begins, Nelson asks Andy to represent Willie Miller, a death row inmate who Nelson believes has sufficient grounds to demand a new trial. Andy is stunned, since his father was  not only the prosecutor who won the case was also successful in having the death sentence imposed. As Nelson presented the basis of the expected appeal, it appears to be merely based on a technicality and Andy initially refuses the request. However, with a single sentence from Nelson causes Andy to change his mind and agree to take the case, despite its seemingly hopeless nature. Soon thereafter, a tragedy occurs which deeply impacts Andy's life and forever alters his commitment to the defense of Willie Miller. (Don't read the book jacket blurb, there is a mild spoiler regarding this aspect of the story.) Thus begins what is essentially straightforward standard combination courtroom/detective story which leads Andy and Laurie to becoming increasingly convinced that their \\"obviously guilty\\" client might in fact be innocent. The case also posssibly seems to involve Nicole's father, Philip Gant, which of course significantly strains the complex personal relationships among Andy, Nicole and Laurie. <br /> <br />This book is a compellingly fast read, I was actually torn at times betwen just proceeding as fast as possible (I finished it in two evenings) and taking the time to leisurely enjoy much of the author's phraseology and the mood which he evoked. One interesting technique is that there are frequent section breaks (usually between every five to ten pages) but no chapter notations to stop the flow of the story. I found this technique quite effective and would recommend that it be adopted by other authors in similar circumstances. A final suggestion, the characters and their relationship became quite complex as the historical backdrop unfolded; I found it very helpful to simply jot down all the names and the relationships as the story unfolded to avoid having to refer to previous scenes.  <br /> <br />In summary, this is a well thought out plot, although certainly not on a par with the either the best detective stories or legal thrillers . However, the flow of the story is handled exceptionally well, the character development is uniformly good and Andy's wonderful pesonality makes the story sing and the reader smile. It is strongly recommended when you are in search of a fast paced light reading experience. I now plan to read the sequel FIRST DEGREE in the hope that Andy Carpenter once again will bring me such enjoyment. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-10-23
US	50223242	R1QRK1HAOQSJBH	0515127485	926822340	Archangel	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Can Fluke Kelso Uncover Josef Stalin's Secret?	I have not read either ENIGMA or FATHERLAND, the author's two previous books; thus I can offer no comparisons of this novel to those highly praised volumes of historical fiction. However, this suspenseful, action filled historical thriller indicatives the impressive breadth of his storytelling abilities. ARCHANGEL is a very thoughtful, well constructed book which I highly recommend for readers who appreciate complex plots and are willing to allow the author the time necessary to provide the background details required to create an aura of realism. If the reader accepts the premise on which this novel is based, the historical speculations at the crux of the story all logically follow and there is sufficient character development to bring the main actors to life.<br /><br />The book begins with a relatively brief prologue, entitled \\"Rapava's Story\\", in which Papu Rapava, one of Josef Stalin's bodyguards at the time of his death in 1953, relates a story regarding the existence of a secret personal notebook of Stalin covered in a black oilskin which had never been discovered subsequent to his death. The fascinated listener is Fluke Kelso, an historian who had never lived up to the early promise displayed by his book exhibiting the courage to critize Commmunism and the horrors perpetuated by Stalin's regime during a period \\"when every other useful idiot in academia was screching for detente\\". Part One of the story then takes place in Moscow, and is centered around a mid-1990's symposium which Kelso is attending with other Sovietologists to discuss the historical archives of Communism being cataloged and released by the Russian government following the break up of the Soviet Union. The complicated nature of that period, the introduction to freedom so foreign to the Russian poplace, the promise of economic change and the inevitable corrution which accompanied such change, and the political crosscurrents (especially the yearning of the Stalinists for a return to the \\"order\\" of the past) all are wonderfully captured and form the backstory for this intriguing tale. In this section the reader is also introduced to three of the key supporting characters in this alternative history. First, Zanaida Rapava, Papu's estranged  daughter and a thoroughly moden Russian woman. Second, Vladimir Mamantov, a Commmunist party member who Kelso first met after he led a failed coup against Prsident Gorbachev. Last, O'Brian, a reporter for a satellite television news service who won't let go of what he believes could be the biggest story of his career.<br /><br />The notebook eventually points to the fact that the answer to the mystery of Stalin's obsession lies in the city of ARCHANGEL in northern Russia. Thus, the action in the second and concluding part of the story builds to a climax in this remote, frozen area bordering on the arctic circle. While by this time some readers might have guessed the central element of the plot and the secret of the notebook, the eventual outcome is impossible to deduce until the very last page. Meanwhile, we are treated to wonderful details of the desolation of this area of Russia and fascinating insights into the character of Stalin.<br /><br />This book includes wonderful historical detail, and Beria, Malenkov and other figures of the period are cleverly interwoven into the fabric of the story. In addition, the detailed touches add to the realism of the story, such as Zinaida's refusal to \\"trust the banks, either-- thieving alchemists, the lot of them, who would take your precious dollars and conjure them into rubles, turn gold into base metal\\". The mood of the city of Moscow and a Russia in transition are captured very well, and this setting provides the perfect backdrop for Fluke Kelso's search for personal and professional vindication through the dicovery of \\"something true and big and defintive -- a piece of history that would explain why things had happened as they did\\". Finally, in some ways this section is aboutKelso's realization of how many elements of the story have in some way been touched by the power of love in its many manifestations.<br /><br />I highly recommend this book, and only want to provide a few minor caveats. First, as you might expect there is a reasonable amount of violence and torture which is occasionally described in some detail althogh never gratuituosly; there is also a great deal of profanity which revolves around the almost continual use of one particular expression.  My only substantive criticism is that the conclusion, while totally satisfactory in keeping with the remainder of the story, is in some ways so shocking and abrupt that unless the author is planning a sequel, he should have written a prologue to bring closure to his readers regarding the few questions which remain unanswered, especially regarding its impact upon Kelso.<br /><br />Tucker Andersenis about Kelso's realization of how many elements of the story have in some way been touched by the power of love in its many manifestations. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book, and only want to provide a few minor caveats. First, as you might expect there is a reasonable amount of violence and torture which is occasionally described in some detail althogh never gratuituosly; there is also a great deal of profanity which revolves around the almost continual use of one particular expression.  My only substantive criticism is that the conclusion, while totally satisfactory in keeping with the remainder of the story, is in some ways so shocking and abrupt that unless the author is planning a sequel, he should have written a prologue to bring closure to his readers regarding the few questions which remain unanswered, especially regarding its impact upon Kelso. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-10-19
US	50223242	R1ZFR42QH17P1N	0810944391	506380764	Scotch & Toilet Water?: A Book of Dog Cartoons	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	(4+) Cartoons that Capture the Essence of Dogdom	Readers of THE NEW YORKER or even individuals who occasionally just peruse the magazine's wonderful cartoons will be familiar with the talent of Leo Cullum, who has had over five hundred of his cartoons published there since 1977. This collection of his dog cartoons, which in his words \\"seem to be a recurrent theme\\" in his work, will undoubtedly delight all dog lovers with their abiity to generate frequent broad smiles interspersed with many chuckles and occasional outright laughter. Some of them examine the often uneasy truce between dogs and cats, and several simply represent the humanizing of our companions often engaged in by all dog lovers. However, many of the most intriguing are (in the cartoonist's own words)  \\"actually about something else cleverly disguised as a dog cartoon\\". In effect, many of these cartoons use dogs as a metaphor to illuminate aspects of the human condition. <br /> <br />While this book will appeal to almost everyone who has ever had the good fortune to have a dog as a family member, it will particularly resonate with those individuals for whom their canine companions have achieved the special place in their hearts and lives reserved for their closest friends and most loved family members. Those who often ask themselves the question \\"What if my dog were human?\\" or wonder about the secret life of their dogs will enjoy the best of these cartoons tremendously and recognize the truth encapsulated in many of them. My only reason for less than a five star rating for the book was my reaction that the collection included several less than top quality entries. While I recognize that such an evaluation is partially a reflection of my personal tastes, I think that it may also result from an attempt to assemble a collection of commercially acceptable length. Despite this one minor reservation, this is definitely a worthwhile addition to the library of any dog aficionado. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-10-18
US	50223242	R111J3NN7AR68P	0399140433	569723924	The Judge	Books	5	10	10	N	N	(4 1/2)  One of the Best Paul Madriani Stories	It is always an interesting experience to read an early book in a series that I  have recently discovered and see how both the characters and the author's style have evolved in his later works when compared to those early efforts.  In some instances the central character's evolution has been so extensive that their early incarnation is hardly recognizable; in many cases the author has gotten increasingly formulaic in the storylines and the early books (often bestsellers that launched the series) are clearly superior and in fact are a reminder of the reasons for the series popularity.  (Many readers feel that the Kay Scarpetta series by Patricia Cornwell falls into this latter category.)  I have been a fan of the Steve Martini series featuring lawyer Paul Madriani, for several years; in the absence of any additions to the series since the disappointing THE ARRAIGNMENT in January 2003, I decided to fill in some of the backstory with which I was unfamiliar by reading THE JUDGE, originally published in January 1996.  This is a well written novel with an excellent storyline; I highly recommend it to both fans of the author and first-time readers as a standalone novel. <br /> <br />As the story begins, Paul Madriani agrees to do a favor for a friend who once saved his life, Lenore Goya, chief deputy prosecutor for Capital County, CA.  His client will be Lenore's childhood friend and distant relation, Tony Arguillo, a relatively new member of the city's Police Department who has been subpoenaed by a grand jury investigating the police union for corruption.  The situation is compounded by a labor dispute between the city and the union and the upcoming re-election campaign of Judge Armando Acosta (known as \\"the Coconut\\"), who within the first ten pages threatens to jail Tony if he won't testify under a grant of limited immunity.  Suddenly, everything seems to change dramatically for Tony when THE JUDGE is arrested during a sting operation by the Vice Squad for supposedly soliciting a prostitute.  Paul visits Lenore while she is interviewing the undercover operative (Brittany Hall) involved in the sting; Lenore's boss D.A. Coleman Kline suddenly confronts Lenore regarding another case and then imperiously and with great irritation chastises her for interviewing Ms. Hall in his absence.  It appears that the D.A. believes that this high profile case involving a sitting judge may further his ambitions to someday run for governor (in addition to providing ammunition in his personal vendetta against Lenore).  To Madriani's great surprise and the consternation of his long time associate Harry Hinds, Judge Acosta asks Madriani to defend him and adamantly declares that he has been framed by the Police Department in retaliation for his treatment of Tony, the union's fair haired boy. <br /> <br />As Madriani  is just starting to pursue his investigation and develop a strategy for defending Acosta, the case suddenly assumes epic proportions as the key witness against his client is found brutally murdered.  The only witness is Ms. Hall's very young daughter; as the case proceeds the confusing nature of the evidence and the age of the witness present problems for both the defense and D.A. Kline (for whom the political stakes have risen dramatically as he chooses to prosecute the case himself).  This book effectively combines all the elements found in this series - murder, sex, corruption, courtroom drama, politics, detective work, and clever legal maneuverings.  Since it occurs shortly after the death of Madriani's wife Nikki, it also provides some information regarding his relationship with his daughter Sarah in the period after Nikki's death.  In addition, suspense develops as to how the intensity of the case will affect Paul's relationship with Lenore, who is also a single parent and dealing with the problems of raising two young daughters.  The potential cost of the case for Madriani and Lenore suddenly escalates dramatically when violence explodes that might touch the lives of their children as well as themselves and when a situation occurs which might lead to their disbarment. <br /> <br />This book was very enjoyable; a particularly satisfying element was the inclusion of a lot of actual courtroom scenes and legal maneuvering. Some of the more recent legal thrillers by several authors including Martini have seemed to be much more action oriented and focused primarily on lawyers acting as detectives to unravel the evidence in their clients' cases. I much prefer the emphasis on the courtroom drama itself as an integral element of the story.  There were a few minor flaws which I won't bother detailing, but careful attention to the story allows the reader to unravel the case in concert with Madriani.  My only disappointment was my surprising familiarity with elements of the story once I got involved in the book; some research revealed that this book actually formed the basis for the script for a made-for-television movie which I had obviously watched several years ago and then forgotten until reading the book dredged up the forgotten storyline from my memory.  The fact that the book contains substantial additional material and some differences in the plot development allowed me to still enjoy the story as it unfolded, but at the same time undoubtedly made me more alert to certain clues in the narrative regarding the outcome than I otherwise would have been.  But if you have not seen the film, you will definitely find THE JUDGE to be one of Martini's best novels and realize why it became a best seller when originally published. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-10-12
US	50223242	RYB0KIRR5L0J3	0399151788	765401342	Dark Justice	Books	2	9	12	N	N	(2 1/2) A Better Movie Script than a Novel	This is a story with great potential which unfortunately was published while the story was barely developed past the stage of a good outline. Perhaps the author is tired of the series but doesn't want to forgo the lucrative financial rewards still possible from a series that has a legion of devoted readers. Maybe the publisher had too tight a deadline or the editor was asleep. Or more likely, the goal was an action filled adventure that had the potential to be optioned as another formulaic thriller destined for the enjoyment of theater audiences or made into a TV movie.  <br /> <br />In any event, after a breathtaking start involving the attempted assassination of the President of the United States, the novel utilizes a totally straightforward plot more in the manner of an investigative procedural (involving the highest level British government intelligence operatives) than a story of clandestine intrigue. More disappointingly, because the story is told in the third person and alternates between the thoughts and actions of the  government operatives and their opponents (a powerful Russian oilman and the shadowy network which he controls), almost all the action is foreshadowed and the only tension involves who will survive and the price which they will pay. <br /> <br />Long time readers of Higgins' books will recognize the operatives at the center of this story - General Charles Ferguson, the head of the British Prime Minister's \\"private Army\\" and his associates, Major Roper, Superintendent Hannah Bernstein, and most importantly former top IRA operative Sean Dillon. Their primary opponents are Josef Belov, a former KGB agent and now a multibilionaire assisted by his top lieutenant Yuri Ashimov and his recruit GRU operative Greta Novikova. The usual game of chess ensues as British intelligence tries to crack the organization which Belov has assembled while Ashimov attempts to minimize the damage to his game plan caused by the discovery of the presidential assassination plot. <br /> <br />There is little character development, and much of the dialog is of a quite summary nature and somewhat unrealistic. The topic of Muslim fanaticism is touched upon but simply as a plot device, and Hannah's concern about the use of extralegal methods to combat terrorism are only cursorily referenced. The topic of the significantly different nature of a war conducted by terrorists rather the traditional nation-state conflicts of the past (including the cold war) and the necessity for new rules of the game is continually asserted by Ferguson and Dillon, but a philosophical examination of the issue is never pursued. Thus, I was frequently frustrated as the tantalizing threads of a morally complex story were continually shortcirciuted by abrupt yet only cursorily described bursts of action. Finally, Greta's act of incredible ambivalence at a crucial point in the story was left unresolved by the conclusion. <br /> <br />While there is sufficient backstory inluded for new readers to understand the context of this novel, there are  many better Jack Higgins books to read. DARK JUSTICE will only appeal to his most devoted readers. The face off between Sean and his old IRA comrades is only a few pages long, and the implied political implications of the involvement of Russian operatives are never developed. To paraphrase Sean's answer to Billy Salter (who plays a crucial role in this story), if you believe that this is \\"the best of all possible \\" books by Jack Higgins, then \\"you'll believe anything\\". So, we are left with a story that can be summarized in Sean's words near the end of the book - \\"I'm tired. I've been at war with the world for years and it's a darker world than when I started.\\"  This is a story about that dark world and the rough DARK JUSTICE which perhaps is the best that can be achieved. Unfortunately it only superficially examines the impact on the souls of those involved, and concentrates instead on the determination of who will die and who will survive and the price that they must pay. A lot of sound and fury, but it is not clear what it signifies. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-09-30
US	50223242	R2WFXPRVBJ0BK4	0399152180	237402282	Melancholy Baby (A Sunny Randall Novel)	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Susan Silverman Shrinks Sunny Randall	CAVEAT: if you are looking for a mystery laden straightforward detective story filled with surprising twists, in all likelihood this will be only a two star story for you. Furthermore, if you have not previously read some of Robert Parker's books, don't start with this one. While sufficient background information is interwoven into the story to make it work as a standalone novel, any potential reader has the advantage that despite Parker's approximately fifty books in print, this is only the fourth book in the recently created Sunny (Sonya) Randall series. Thus, given the fact that all Parker's books are incredibly fast reads, it makes sense to start with FAMILY HONOR and meet Sunny's friends, family, and bull terrier Rosie as her cases and the complications of her life unfold. New readers will miss some of the crossover references to the Spenser series in this book, but even many longtime Spenser fans such as myself, the task of reading all the early books in that series (which is responsible for the legion of readers that he has today) is still incomplete. But for me, this is the most enjoyable Sunny Randall book to date. <br /> <br />The plot is simplicity itself, Sarah Markham (a college student) is referred to Sunny because Sarah has become increasingly convinced that the couple who have raised her are not her parents. (While they are adamant that she is her daughter they refuse to submit to a DNA test for \\"religious reasons\\" and out of privacy concerns.) Sonny has just been notified by Ritchie, her ex-husband, that given Sonny's reluctance to remarry (anyone -she still loves him) and have children, he is about to marry another woman. Thus, Sarah's case provides a possible distraction for Sunny as she attempts to sort out why she is still so psychologically conflicted about her personal relationships at thirty seven years of age. As soon as Sunny starts detecting (no more an unusual word than Sunny's use of the adjective the griefy or describing her therapy asshrinkage), she realizes what an emotional cripple Sarah is and how totally weird her parents are. Thus, the stage is set. Repairing Sarah's life will be juxtaposed with Sunny's attempt to repair her own. (The plot is simple but the storyline complex.) <br /> <br />Of course, violence soon erupts, and the case becomes the standard Parker detective procedural, heavy on the character relationships rather than the plot. But even for Parker, this plot is thin and the question is how the story will be resolved, not the mystery of Sarah's parentage. Of course, there are the usual few homicides, just to up the stakes and inject an element of physical danger as well as mystery and psychological stress. In addition to Ritchie's brief appearance but central importance both to the story and also to Sunny's future, Spike is once again an important supporting actor and Tony Marcus makes a cameo appearance. During one of Sunny's visits to NYC, series newcomer Detective Sal Corsetti suddenly assumes a key role in the case, and wonderfully plays his character of a surprisingly (to the bad guys) clever cop willing to take on anyone who gets in his way. We even get to meet Lolly Drake, one of the multitude of talk radio icons with whom by now we are all passingly familiar. Most importantly, however, Sunny's attempt to solve Sarah's case combined with her own personal identity crisis helps her to connect with her father (an ex-cop) and provides previously lacking insight concerning his relationship with her mother. <br /> <br />And now the final element of the story that will capture the interest of  long time Parker readers and Spenser fans. Sunny's personal crisis finally leads her to seek professional help in an attempt to move on with her life, and who is recommended as a therapist - none other than Dr. Susan Silverman. Sunny's reaction to their initial meetings and subsequent visits is fascinating, as we suddenly see Susan from the viewpoint of a woman with Spenser's powers of observation but with an objectivity which he lacks and with the remoteness which is often the case early in the therapist - patient relationship. Never have I seen Parker spend so much time on detailed descriptions of someone who is many ways a secondary character to the story, but of course it is because of the fact that Sunny's perception of Susan's competence and their developing relationship is crucial to her future. She comes to realize that Susan cannot provide the answers either to her case or to her future. <br /> <br />There are many wonderful moments in this book, but most of them are only peripherally about the case. Rather, they are about the impact of the case on everyone around Sarah and Sunny, along with a few moments of pure fun with Rosie for all dog lovers. And while the case is eventually closed, there are plenty of loose ends to be picked up in future stories. What will be Ritchie's role in Sunny's life? Will Sarah's bond with Sunny somehow continue in other stories, similar to the reappearance of Paul Giacomin in the Spenser series? Will Sunny find out that Dr. Silverman's partner is also a private detective (her father obviously knows this fact but she doesn't have a clue) and how will this change their relationship? And finally, of course, the ultimate fantasy, will Sunny and Spenser's pursuit of their careers somehow cause them to be thrown into contact and collaborate on a case? We'll have to await future stories for the answers to these questions, and given the author's writing methodology he may not yet know himself. Meanwhile, I wholeheartedly recommend this book subject to the caveat at the beginning of this review. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-09-23
US	50223242	R25SJQV6QRCBCB	0446530689	792252776	The Protector (Morrell, David)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	An Almost Nonstop Action Thriller with Great Tradecraft	IMPORTANT: Many reviews of this book and the bookjacket notes by the publisher provide unnecessary spoilers regarding the storyline. (I strongly suggest that you refrain from reading them if you have not already done so, as I believe this will increase the impact of the story as it unfolds.) While these details did not destroy my great enjoyment of the book, they did detract from some of the surprises wonderfully plotted by the author. My desire to not detract further from the pleasure of any potential reader is the reason that my description of the plot is very general. However, I have attempted to offset this aspect of the review by a detailed discussion of the reasons for my five star recommendation. <br /> <br />Cavanaugh (perhaps not his real name) is a former Delta Force operative still hooked on the adrenaline rush provided only by action invoving great peril and whose avoidance demands great skill. He is now utilizing his weapons training, analytical talents, extreme self confidence and physical conditioning as a member of an elite team of individuals working for Global Protective Services. Their corporate mission is to employ all means necessary (weapons. forged documents, relocation and the creation of new identities, etc.) to maintain the safety of their clients in the face of any legitimate threat. Cavanagh's job as a PROTECTOR has involved the safety of witnesses in high profile criminal cases (one of whom is now his wife), high level corporate executives, and on occasion even top government officials in instances when the federal law enforcement agencies may have been compromised. Global has just been contacted by Daniel Prescott, a biochemist who fears for his life as a result of the chain of events put in motion by  a powerful new mind altering drug that his lab has created under government contract and for which he alone knows the formula. <br /> <br />Since Global often rejects potential clients due to concerns regarding the nature of their activities, Cavanaugh is assigned to meet with Prescott in order to assess his truthfulness and suitability as a client. However, despite the extreme precautions insisted upon by Prescott, who clearly is incredibly paranoid (maybe deservedly so), the meeting itself unexpectedly creates a situation which threatens the lives of both Cavanaugh and Prescott. Only Cavanaugh's thorough training allow them to escape; thus, their fates seem inextricably bound together and a Global team is detailed to protect Prescott while they arrange a failsafe new identity for him as the only way to elude his pursuers. However, an unforeseen violent tragedy separates Canvanaugh from both Prescott and the rest of his Global team and places him in the most dangerous and terrifying situation of his career.  <br /> <br />As is the case with the best plotted thrillers, once the reader accepts the initial premise of this story, the nonstop action all logically follows in a convincing and heartstopping manner. I found the book hard to put down, both because of the intensity of the drama and also because the meticulously researched details add elements of both realism and a \\"gee whiz, I didn't know that\\" reponse from the reader. I have never read a book of this genre with as many details regarding tradecraft (including a lifesaving use of duct tape) and weaponry, and yet they naturally flow from the actions of Cavanaugh and his asociates and are not included as superfluous add-ons. The structure of the book is also well thought out. After a brief and initially somewhat inexplicable but later crucial prologue, it is divided into seven very aptly titled sections beginning with Threat Assessment, through Threat Avoidance and followed by Threat Identification, Threat Confrontation, Threat Escalation, Threat Reprisal and finally Threat Elimination. <br /> <br />I also enjoyed the character development, this is not just a plot with characters thrown in as necessary to complete the story. Indeed, this is in many ways the story of how Cavanaugh (and also his relationship with his wife Jamie) will be changed forever by this assignment. He increasingly realizes that, \\"you want the high of action, you pay the price ..... he often thought of adrenaline withdrawal as a preparation for rebirth, and birth couldn't happen without pain\\". <br /> <br />Reviewers who I respect have frequently mentioned David Morrell as writing outstanding action/suspense novels, but given the great number of books in this genre I had never before read any of his works. (Of course, I have seen the movies adapted from his books, most notably FIRST BLOOD, which not only created such success for Stallone but made Rambo a descriptive term in our everyday language.) This book was immensely enjoyable, I strongly recommend it and definitely plan to read some of the author's earlier works. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-09-20
US	50223242	R2OERYN14NBANF	039915177X	170827342	Lost City: From the NUMA Files - Kurt Austin	Books	3	43	51	N	N	A Great Plot Spoiled by Poor Writing and Editing	This is the fifth book in the Kurt Austin series written by Clive Cussler and coauthor Paul Kemprecos. The prologue and first four chapters of this book do an excellent job of introducing the reader to many of the main characters and the various threads central to the plot of this action/adventure/scientific mystery. Immediately the reader meets Jules Fauchard, fighting for his life in an open cockpit plane over the French Alps in August 1914 on a secret mission as World War I is about to erupt. Chapter One then shifts to the present, and a \\"reality\\" TV show being filmed on a supposedly deserted island in The Scottish Orkneys becomes a little too real for the participants. In Chapter Two, research chemist Angus MacLean is confronted by the violence which he is trying to escape. The scene shifts again in Chapter Three to a research facility and powerplant located deep under the glacier Le Dormeur where a scientific research team makes a startling discovery. Finally, in the next chapter Kurt Austin and other members of his NUMA (National Underwater and Marine Agency) team are collaborating with Skye Labelle, an archeologist with the Sorbonne, to explore the frigid waters of Lac du Dormeur at base of the glacier for hidden evidence of early European civilizations. Thus, less than fifty pages into the story the reader has been skillfully introduced to several of the various threads that will eventually be woven together in the complicated plot which evolves. <br /> <br />And there are additional elements of the story still to be introduced. First, Kurt and his associate Joe Zavala are called upon to save Skye and several others trapped by an explosion deep underneath the glacier. The focus then shifts to Kurt's colleagues Paul and Gamay Trout, who are asked to join a NUMA team investigating an infestation of Gorgonweed threatening to choke the world's oceans and upset both the world's ecology and commerce.  This threat has apparently originated in an area of the Atlantic named the LOST CITY due to the confluence of huge underwater towers and the microbe communities that have become attached to them. The microbial action and an enzyme found in the region have caused the seaweed to mutate into a species that has the potential to create immense havoc by clogging the oceans to the extent that all life on the planet might be seriously disrupted. In addition, it appears that the enzymes produced by these microbes are being secretly harvested by unknown predators. The plot will also be further complicated by the actions of the Fauchard family, many of whom are truly villainous and yet have wielded immense power for centuries. <br /> <br />Several segments of this book are very informative and truly fascinating, especially when dealing with subjects that demand the provision of detailed technical background information in order to make the story believable. I found some of the information on glaciology, oceanography and deep sea submersibles very interestingly presented. And such exotic topics as the features of the Morane-Saulnier N aircraft, ancient weapons, and early trade routes certainly added to the believability of the plot.  <br /> <br />So, WHY JUST THREE STARS? Because inexplicably large sections of the book read like an unedited first draft. I have no idea whether there was a belief that the plot and the series' popularity were enough to make the book successful, whether there was a tight publication deadline, or if there is some other explanation, but the overall effect was very disappointing. Specifically, my criticisms are fourfold. First, a lot of the dialog is either stilted, childish, clich filled or just plain ludicrous. (Most high school students could have made it more realistic.) Second, in several instances the characters actions make no sense. Individuals act with total disregard of the obvious dangers which they face, taking not even the most obvious precautions. Third, much of  the backstory is provided by conversations which seem totally unlikely. I cannot go into detail without providing spoilers, but at one point one the villains (apparently fueled by egotism) willingly and totally superfluously engages in an extended dialog with one of her adversaries the only purpose of which is to enlighten the reader. Last, many of the escapes and much of the action, while wildly exciting and entertaining, are totally lacking in credibility, even for a novel of this genre. <br /> <br />In summary, the story has a hugely imaginative plot, full of the type of intrigue and conspiracy favored by readers of the genre. And there is certainly plenty of heartstopping action. But it is poorly written and obviously manipulative of the reader. In retrospect this is probably a book that will appeal much more to speed readers and individuals who are willing to just quickly skim through the sections to which I objected and concentrate on the action. So, a frustrating three stars, almost five stars for the plot and barely two stars for the authors' execution. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-09-16
US	50223242	R14KIVIBWP6T3Z	0810934884	337651675	The Dog Chapel: Welcome All Creeds, All Breeds. No Dogmas Allowed	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Beautiful and Philosophical Book For Dog Lovers	While attending a conference in Vermont, I was fascinated by several woodcuts of dogs by folk artist Stephen Huneck which were displayed in a local craft store. The ones which particularly caught my interest involved labrador retrievers engaged in simple tasks which captured the essence of the breed, e.g. loyalty, friendliness, joyfulfulness, and perserverance. I then noticed that the artist also had published three children's books incorporating woodcuts of his black Labrador retriever Sally at the beach, in the mountains, and on the farm. However, the book to which I was drawn both by the storyline and the pictures supplementing and illustrating the text was THE DOG CHAPEL. I learned that the author and his wife in fact live in St. Johnsbury, VT with their four dogs and that he has constructed THE DOG CHAPEL on his farm as a place that welcomes visitors of \\"all creeds [and] all breeds, [but with] no dogmas allowed\\". <br /> <br />The preface briefly and movingly describes the near death experience which transformed the artist's (because that is the real occupation of this author) life and led to the construction of the chapel. The book is also movingly dedicated to Sally, the black Lab and his constant companion who helped nurse him back to health after he miraculously awoke from his coma but was unable to speak or move. During his recuperation, he was inspired (or as he puts it, he had the wild idea) to build the chapel to commemorate and share with others \\"the messages my dogs have taught me about the nature of love, joy, friendship, play, trust, faith, and peace\\". The next several pages of the book consist of gorgeous photographs of both the interior and exterior of the chapel. They succeed in capturing its simple beauty in the marvelous setting of the Vermont hills. There are simple stained glass windows and wonderful woodcarvings (the artist also is a sculptor and artisan who fashions hand carved furniture), as well as the accommodations being enjoyed by bothhuman beings and their dogs. ( Of course, the chapel has its own dog door.)  The remainder and overwhelming majority of the book is then devoted to woodcuts illustrating the various attributes and encapsulating the sort of experiences which lead to the deep bond which forms between people and their dogs. <br /> <br />This is a book to be savored and repeatedly enjoyed. It is the sort of book to be left on the table next to your favorite chair so you can open it up and smile at the pictures which capture the essence of some of your favorite moments with your dog. It can also serve to ease the deep pain from the loss of a canine companion. Finally, it will then be conveniently at hand for the enjoyment of any guests who also happen to be doglovers. (Of course, given the prominence of retrievers in Huneck's artwork the book probably had some extra added attraction for me since we currently own a black Lab mix and a Golden Retriever and still mourn the death several years ago of our yellow Lab - Great Dane mix.) Although the price might seem a little expensive for such a slim volume, the cover and the binding are of high quality and the pages display the artwork to great advantage. I highly recommend this book, and as the commentary accompanying one of the illustrations suggests, after buying the book \\"if you feel that you are too old to play, [perhaps your next task should be to] buy a ball and a dog to go with it\\".  <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-09-14
US	50223242	R2IR12MVICDZLN	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	4	15	25	N	N	(4+) Which of these Slimeballs are also Criminals?	The CAST OF CHARACTERS <br /> <br />The RECURRENT FIGURES - <br />Dr. Kay Scarpetta - the central figure of this series by Patricia Cornwell, a forensic pathologist and former Chief Medical examiner for the state of Virginia now a consultant living in South Florida <br />Lucy Farinelli - Kay's niece, a former FBI agent who now runs The Last Precinct (TLP), a top secret specialized security firm <br />Rudy Musil - Lucy's colleague in TLP, also a former FBI agent; currently very aggravated by Lucy's recent actions <br />Benton Wesley - a psychologist, Scarpetta's confidante and lover, resident of Aspen, CO., Scarpetta 's planned vacation with him is interrupted by this case <br />Peter Marino - formerly a Richmond police captain, a freelance investigator frequently hired by Scarpetta; becomes very sorry that he attempted to befriend Suzanne Paulsson (see slimeballs) <br />Dr. Jack Fielding - a former assistant chief of Scarpetta's, still employed by the State of Virginia as a pathologist <br /> <br />The VICTIMS - <br />Gilly Paulsson - a fourteen year old girl found dead in bed while suffering from the flu, Jack Fielding's autopsy has been inconclusive regarding the cause of death <br />Theodore Whitby - an accident victim killed immediately after Scarpetta arrives in Richmond whose autopsy results in a extremely puzzling link to Gilly's death with the discovery of certain unexplained TRACE elements on the bodies of both victims <br />Henrietta (Henri) Walden - an employee and confidante of Lucy's who was brutally attacked while alone in Lucy's Florida's house; being treated by Benton Wesley as a result of the psychological trauma suffered during the attack (Scarpetta knows no details of the attack or that his current case involves Lucy)  <br /> <br />The SLIMEBALLS - <br />Dr. Joel Marcus - recently hired to replace Scarpetta as Chief Medical Examiner; motives for urgently requesting Scarpetta's aid in the investigation of Gilly's death very suspect; his treatment of her abominable <br />Suzanne Paulsson - Gilly's mother, is she just distraught and confused about Gilly's death and the unexplained disappearance of the Bassett Hound Sweetie or is something more sinister involved <br />Dr. Frank Paulsson - Gilly's father, divorced from Suz and living in Charleston, S.C., Lucy eventually manages to uncover his secrets <br />Edgar Allan Pogue - truly a creep, but is he the sociopath respnsible for these incidents? What is his involvement with Scarpetta's investigation or Lucy's stalker? <br />Kate - Lucy's neighbor, is she really just a reclusive, eccentric voyeur and what has she seen from her upstairs window? <br /> <br />The LAW - <br />Detective Browning - Richmond cop assigned to the case who apparently has lost interest after the involvement of the FBI at the governor's request; after initial run in with Marino he provides valuable help as the case proceeds <br />Karen Weber - FBI agent brought into the case due to potential worries concerning aspects involving Frank Paulsson's supposed connection to the Department of Homeland Security <br /> <br />The STORY - <br />Dr. Scarpetta returns to RIchmond to aid in the investigation of Gilly Paulsson's death and is appalled by both her successor's attitude towards her presence and also by the chaos and antagonism that pervade the department. When she reautopsies Gilly she discovers evidence which she believes conclusively points towards Gilly being a murder victim; however, both Dr. Marcus and Suzanne Paulson are very reluctant to accept her conclusion. When unexplainede Trace evidence with similar characteristics appears in another case with no common characteristics (industrial accident), it appears that cross contamination may have occurred and leads to questions regarding the competency involved in the autopsy procedures and thus the validity of Scarpetta's conclusion. Meanwhile, Marino soon gets himself into a very difficult situation which has the potential to place both he and Scarpetta in a very difficult position, jeopardize their whole investigation, and become a political nightmare. Simultaneously, Lucy and Rudi are trying to determine what happened to Henri and keep Lucy safe when it becomes clear that a psychopath is involved. <br /> <br />This is a rather complex and very unpleasant story but an excellent forensic mystery.  As most readers will suspect, as the conclusion nears the two cases eventually intersect and Lucy, Rudy, Marino and Scarpetta uncover bizarre evidence, race against time to TRACE the direction in which it leads, uncover the truth and prevent further violence. My wife has been a long time fan of the author and has read all of the Scarpetta series; she felt that this was quite good but not one of the best. (She didn't like Lucy's character in this story at all.) I finally decided to read one, and found that it provided enough backround for a first time reader (but woven into the story in a way that should not bore readers familiar with the series) so that it worked very well as a standalone story. My rating reflects my conclusion that it is an interesting, well crafted story and that the forensic investigative aspects of the plot are quite clever. I felt that it did not deserve a rating of five stars because the storyline itself was so depressing and the ending itself was quite abrupt. The writing was a little spare and terse for me, and while all essential aspects of the story were covered by the conclusion, there were several minor threads left dangling.  (I recognize that this may be the author's usual method of segueing into her next Scarpetta volume, but nebertheless felt that it made the book seem slightly incomplete.). So, for a first time reader, very good but not truly great. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-09-07
US	50223242	R2O21S2SCPVA07	0670033596	795101432	Something Rotten	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What's Next for Thursday? - Saving the World from Armageddon	Jasper Fforde has outdone himself!  In this fourth installment detailing the life and exploits of the intrepid Spec Ops agent Thursday Next, Fforde introduces several new characters, plot twists and literary devices while simultaneously managing to provide on ramps to connect with almost all the off ramps which filled the first three volumes. (This was his very descriptive terminology at a book reading and discussion which I recently attended; otherwise I would just said that he tied together most of the loose ends.) The series begins with THE EYRE AFFAIR (review 4/14/04), which introduces Thursday to the reader as she attempts to frustrate the attempts of Archeron Hades to delete all evidence of the existence of the novel MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. (You will have to read the book to learn why this became THE EYRE AFFAIR. The following two novels, LOST IN A GOOD BOOK (review 5/10/04) and THE WELL OF LOST PLOTS (review 8/21/04), detail Thursday's adventures as she attempts to recover her eradicated husband Landen and provide rich detail concerning the Book World and Thursday's adventures as a Jurisfiction agent.     My summary recommendation is very simple. Read all four books in the order in which they were written. Start with THE EYRE AFFAIR. Reading it is the best way possible to determine if the world of Thursday Next and the literary skills of FFORDE will appeal to you. This is a world of clever wordplay, convoluted plots, an amazing mix of Book World (fictional) and real world characters which are the product of a fertile imagination, an active mind, insatiable curiosity, and an ability to see the world through a slightly distorted lens. This book and EYRE are the two which come closest to standalone adventures, but Eyre ends with several unresolved issues including the eradication of Thursday's husband and a reader of only this volume would miss the nuances (as well as fun) provided by the earlier works.    There are two key new characters in this book in addition tothe smaller parts played by several others, including Otto von Bismarck and Lady Hamilton. Hamlet comes to Swindon and steals one of the best scenes in the story, as well playing a minor but crucial role in Thursday's attempt to save the world from the probable destruction which will occur (if her father's foresight as a member of the Chronoguards is accurate) if Swindon does not win the Superhoops Championship match (think of it as croquet on steroids). And St. Zvlkx, a thirteenth century figure appears to read his final revealment after an unbroken string of previous successful predictions. Of course, he appropriately speaks only in Olde English; luckily there is a typeface available for the reader and Thursday's brother Joffey of the church of the Global Standard Diety is available to roughly translate for everyone else. We also get to meet the next Next generation as finding reliable child  care for Friday becomes one of the crucial issues in Thursday's life with the continued absence of his father Landen. In addition, a solution must be found for dealing with the rebelliousness of Pickwick's offspring Alan, whose existence is supposedly impossible because cloned dodos were supposed to be infertile.    As readers of this series know, it is impossible to summarize the books, and even if a reviewer managed to accomplish that feat, much of  their enjoyment is in their use of language and the clever details of the universe which they create. So I will simply attempt to pose a few questions which this book raises and then conclude with my reaction to the story. (Don't worry, no spoilers.) What will Thursday's sentence be after her conviction by the Court of Hearts for her role in THE EYRE AFFAIR? Will Granny Next ever finish reading the ten most boring books so that she can die in peace? Will the Cretan Minotaur be located and confined? Who is Millon Defloss and what is his interest in Thursday Next? (It's about time we find this out.) Should Landen wait up for Thursday as she leaves to try to save the world from \\"megalomaniac tyrants keen on global domination\\" or just bathe Friday and go to bed? Is Hamlet's reprise of his role in the style of Mel Gibson in Mad Max an audience pleaser? And, to latte or not to latte?    My enjoyment should be as obvious as the fun which the author had in composing this series. In addition, the use of ALICE IN WONDERLAND as a model for portions of the story was striking, especially the Superhoops game. So, I unreservedly recommend this book, but nevertheless have two caveats. First, in the attempt to tie up all the major loose ends (except one, you'll have to figure out which one yourself), there are a few elements which seemed a little forced and/or not fully developed. Second, when I finished the book I felt a palpable sense of regret that the series was complete for now. In the case of each of the previous three books, you knew that they were part of a serial adventure - you almost could see the invisible writing TO BE CONTINUED - at the end of each final chapter. This conclusion was just that, it was wonderful and in some ways very though provoking and emotional, but there is a sense of finality to this aspect of Thursday's existence. (Especially since in the book discussion which I attended the author stated that his next book will not be a NEXT book and when he picks up the story again it is possible one of the other characters will have the main role.) So, be sure to fully savor this book as you read it.    Tucker Andersen	2004-09-02
US	50223242	R13ENKUBISYZ1I	0670032891	260413038	The Well of Lost Plots: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Behind The Scenes in the Great Library	KEY INFORMATION: This book should be viewed as the third installment or volume of a four part serial novel. (This fact is not only my opinion; the interrelated and sequential nature of the four books was emphasized by the author at a book discussion which I recently attended.) The first novel is THE EYRE AFFAIR (review 4/14/04), an introduction to the fictional literary special operative Thursday Next and the closely parallel universe of 1985 England which she inhabits. The second volume is LOST IN A GOOD BOOK (review 5/10/04) and the final volume is the just published SOMETHING ROTTEN. The novels are unique and defy classification, involving elements of science and science fiction, fantasy, humor, mystery, biography, mythology, wordplay and allusions too numerous to list. They are uniformly both thought provoking and incredibly enjoyable. The only advice which I would choose to give to individuals who have not read the earlier books is that when you are in the mood for a lighthearted adventure unlike any that you have ever experienced, introduce yourself to Thursday Next but start with THE EYRE AFFAIR and read them in order. While this book can be read on a standalone basis, you will miss the power of the story and not fully understand many of the allusions. <br /> <br />If you are a fan of Fforde's and are wondering about this third installment in Thursday's adventures, it continues the transition started in LOST (volume 2) from Landen's eradication at the conclusion of EYRE to Thursday's confrontation with The Goliath Corporation in ROTTEN (volume 4), where she will try to arrange for Landen's return and save the world from a possible Armageddon. While Thursday recuperates from her battles with Hades and Goliath, she needs to find a safe retreat while awaiting the birth of her child. She decides to use the Character Exchange program; she and Pickwick take up residence on a houseboat to allow Mary, a character in an unpublished novel titled CAVERSHAM HEIGHTS, to take a break from her role. This story is quite different from the first two volumes, because it takes place entirely within the realm of the Book World. This is composed of The Great Library, which has twenty-six floors (one for each letter of the alphabet) where the original living manuscripts of all published books are kept. There are also twenty-six subbasement levels, where unpublished books are constructed and kept until they are either aproved for publication or sent for salvage so that their elements can be recycled. This is THE WELL OF LOST PLOTS.  <br /> <br />Miss Havisham  and other characters such as The Cat (Formerly) Named Cheshire and Harris Tweed who we have met briefly are the chief protagonists in this story, and Thursday learns about the elements of fiction writing as she has numerous adventures in the Great Library on the way to becoming certified as a PRO (Prose Resource Operative).   Of course, the fictional characters are fascinated by an Outlander in their midst, since it is the first exposure to one for most of them. This is an adventure story with the background consisting of details of how works of literature are constructed. For example, Thursday learns how level D generic characters can train for leading roles in the books which they inhabit.  <br /> <br />It is not just all data gathering and interesting exposition , however. She is pressed into service to contain the potential havoc and destruction which is threatened by an attack by the grammasites; then when a Minotaur escapes the consequences are disastrous. Finally, the attempt by the Council of Genres to introduce Ultraworld Version 9 as the new standard for creating works of fiction during the Annual Book World Awards must somehow be subverted once the potentially disastrous consequences are understood. These parodies of the Oscars and the similarities to the machinations of a well known and feared software company whose stock symbol is MSFT are wonderfully done and truly hilarious. Interwoven with all these adventures is Thursday's attempt to improve the plot sufficiently to allow CAVERSHAM HEIGHTS to qualify for publication so that the friends which she has found in the book will not be destined for salvage. Finally, Granny Next visits to warn her of the retaliatory plot of Acheron Hades' mnemomorph sister Aornis as payback for Acheron's death. <br /> <br />As with the previous books, it is only possible for a reviewer to give an indication of the nature of this book rather than provide any type of real summary. However, this book is fully as clever as the previous two, and integral to the development of the story of Thursday's biography. (Admittedly, if you are looking for a self contained story, this only rates about three stars.) If you are a fan of Thursday's previous adventures, this next book in the Next series should definitely be high on your reading list. You'll wish that you could visit the Great Library with Thursday and explore THE WELL OF LOST PLOTS. In addition, as an added bonus the completion of this book means that you as a reader will now be able to savor the expectation of embarking upon the reading of the final segment of Thursday's adventures immediately, since it has now been published.  <br /> <br />                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tucker Andersen	2004-08-21
US	50223242	R3JWS30S35WDFH	0060596503	479838228	Whirlwind: A Novel	Books	5	25	26	N	N	(4 1/2)  A Flawed Hero Battles Despicable Opponents	The POSTIVES: <br />1) A well crafted intriguing plot with many surprising twists <br />2) Interesting, well developed central characters <br />3) Fast paced action <br />4) The wonderful cynical commentary woven into the story concerning the motivations of some despicable political operatives <br />5) An epilogue that cleverly ties up all the loose ends in a satisfying and somewhat surprising manner <br /> <br />The NEGATIVES <br />1) Unnecessary violence and scenes of torture portrayed in excessive detail <br />2) Action in the final climatic scene that defies credibility even by the standards of such thrillers <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this action-thriller by Joseph Garber featuring unjustly disgraced CIA agent Charlie McKenzie. Charlie is relaxing at home with his daughter and grandson when he receives a panicked call from the president's national security advisor (a true sleazeball) concerning a national emergency so extreme (way beyond only a crisis) that the President has asked him to secretly recruit Charlie to utilize his unique skills in the service of his country. After some wonderful negotiating (which in other circumstances might be labeled blackmail), Charlie agrees to take the assignment to recover some top secret weapons technology codenamed WHIRLWIND which has been stolen by a Russian spy named Irina Kolodenkova. (Who, in a surprising twist, is not the villian of this story.)  <br /> <br /> This simple plot is made interesting by its myriad complications and a somewhat realistic technological premise; but it is the interaction of the characters and the psychological elements of the tale which result in much more than the standard storyline of this genre (which could be summarized as the struggle of an heroic -but flawed - individual opposed by the overwhelming resources of a major and unprincipled opponent). Charlie assumes that once he has located Irina and recovered the WHIRLWIND information, his knowledge will become a liability and he will be considered expendable, so he has to figure out how to accomplish his mission while preserving his future. At times this effort results in an uneasy alliance of convenience between Irina and Charlie, both of whom need each other if they are to remain alive once a super efficient paramilitary organization headed by a truly evil individual named Johan Schmidt is also hired to recover Whirlwind. <br /> <br />Details are impossible without spoilers, and in any case they wouldn't do justice to the enjoyment which this novel provides since much of it comes from the psychological elements and the tone and the interplay between the characters. There were a few instances where the description phrases were essentially prose poetry. My only reservations are detailed above, especially the violence, and this is my reason for not rating it a full five stars. I understand that it adds to the intensity of the story and provided additional support to the degree of danger faced by Charlie and Irina, but it was too sickeningly graphic for me although relegated to mercifully brief episodes. <br /> <br />In summary, this book is aptly titled WHIRLWIND, not only because that was the clever codename for the technology but also because while reading the story I felt gripped by the same WHIRLWIND in which the characters had been caught up. Highly recommended. <br /> <br />Disclaimer: I was furnished an advanced reader's copy of this book by the publisher based on the type of novels which I frequently review. I do not know the author or anyone affiliated with the publisher, and made no commitments concerning any review that I might write. However, this note is in the spirit of full disclosure, so the reader may decide if this factor may have influenced my opinion in any manner.   <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-08-19
US	50223242	REWMWD5ZKYZNT	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	5	39	46	N	N	An Insightful, Informative and Articulate  Critique	A few months ago I attended a discussion with this book's author with few preconceptions, since it had somewhat mixed reviews. But she is the real deal; both she and the book are fascinating. Miss Manji is a thirty six year old gay (part of the controversy) journalist and TV personality now living in Canada. She was born in Uganda but her family was forced to flee when Idi Amin came to power. At age four she and her very strict parents moved to VA.; the openness of U.S. society began the process which led to her questioning the interpretation of her religion which form the basis for the male domination of the society in which her parents lived.   <br />  <br />The book is written as a letter to the Muslim community. It is both the story of her personal journey of discovery regarding what she considers the true nature of her faith (and why she has not rejected it) and a plea for reinstitution of the idea of IJITIHAD, the spirit of inquiry and discovery which she portrays as originally an integral aspect of Islam. While both Miss Manji's writing style and conversational demeanor in person are non-confrontational and quite unassuming, her inner strength and strong convictions are indicated by her determination and zeal in pursuit of her attempts to stimulate a discussion concerning the nature of Islam despite the death threats which she has received since the book's publication.  <br />  <br />I highly recommend this book to those with questions about the internal conflicts that are inherent in the KORAN (as in other religious texts). There is also an interesting list of readings at the back of the book (including several rigorous academic publications) for those who are interested in further pursuit of the issues which she raises. The reasons for the author's rejection of the totalitarian and inflexible version of what she labels \\"desert Islam\\" and which she perceives to a distortion of the teachings of Muhammad are certainly well documented, and wider acceptance of her viewpoint by other Muslims would certainly be an encouraging development.   <br />  <br />Miss Manji is articulate, thoughtful, insightful and has spent a lot of time and energy in pursuit of answers to her questions concerning many of the issues which are fundamental to the nature of her faith. While she is opinionated and outspoken, she places her arguments in historical context as she shares her journey of intellectual discovery with the reader. In fact, I found her very open minded and courageous, which are two characteristics which I guess one needs to possess if you are a Muslim willing to question the mullahs. I have done some background checking and find that other people who I respect have also been impressed. (As an aside, the New York Times recently chose to publish an interesting op ed piece which she submitted concerning Iraq.)   <br />  <br />An important note for potential readers of this book is the fact its rating is a function of as extreme a split in the viewpoints of reviewers as I have encountered. Of the 102 previous reviews, the overwhelming majority were almost evenly split between one star or five stars. (Thus, while the rating as calculated is three stars, in actuality despite that average  only four of the 102 reviewers gave it that rating.) What is noticeable is that the majority of the one star reviews are personal attacks on the author or her thesis and only occasionally commentary regarding the manuscript itself. So if you believe that the mullahs' interpretations of the Koran are inviolate and that the male domination of strict Islamic societies does not both disadvantage them and repress their populaces, I suspect that you won't enjoy this book However, if you want to read an interesting account of a personal journey with an outcome that we can only hope occurs with increasing frequency as the Muslim world attempts to deal with the dissonant reality which the radical fundamentalists have embraced, this is a fascinating account andits conversational style makes it a very easy read.   <br />  <br />Tucker Andersen  <br />	2004-08-18
US	50223242	R3GQCY6SAISYZN	0399151877	44413543	Blowout: An FBI Thriller	Books	2	38	45	N	N	(1 1/2) This Plot Deserves a Much Better Written Story	ELEVENTH HOUR by Catherine Coulter was the subject of the third review that I wrote for Amazon (8/28/02), and while my five star rating might be a little generous by my current standards I enjoyed the book immensely. Despite mixed reviews, its bestseller status indicated that many other readers shared my opinion. It made me want to learn more about the adventures of (Dillon) Savich and (Lacey) Sherlock, the husband and wife team who are the two main characters in Coulter?s ?FBI Thriller Series?. I was especially intrigued by the ?two for one? aspect of the story; there were two mysteries to be solved that were cleverly woven together as an integral element of the plot. Therefore, I eagerly awaited the next entry in the series, BLINDSIDE (review 7/28/03); unfortunately, while it bore superficial resemblance to the earlier book, the storytelling and the editing were very disappointing and the second mystery was seemingly included as an afterthought. Much to my disappointment, BLOW OUT, the latest installment in the series is even more poorly written and edited. It appears that the author and her publisher have decided that Sherlock and Savich have such a loyal fan club that a peremptory effort at telling a story and the continuation of the two-for-one mystery format will be sufficient inducement for her loyal readers. Well, I am officially going on strike with regard to the purchase of future books in this series until I read some glowing reviews by reviewers whose judgment I trust. I will instead content myself by reading some of Coulter?s much more highly praised earlier stories. <br /> <br />As my review title indicates, my greatest disappointment with regard to this story is that with a little additional effort and a lot better job of editing this could have been a first rate book. For some reason, perhaps to grab the reader?s interest, the book opens with a riveting action sequence which turns out to part of an interesting but totally peripheral plot. Savich encounters an apparition and gets involved in an unsolved murder that occurred thirty years ago. It almost seems that perhaps this story began as the author?s primary interest but she wasn?t sure that she could turn it into a believable full length novel so threw it in as a twofer that provides some interesting asides and gives us readers more for our money. Suddenly, the action switches to DC, where the brutal murder of a Supreme Court Justice inexplicably occurs within the library of the Court itself despite the incredibly tight security that prevails. When additional murders occur, it appears that a very bold and fiendishly clever murderer has an agenda to fulfill. Additional characters are introduced including Ben Raven, the liaison from the DC Metro Police, and Callie Markham, the stepdaughter of the murdered Justice, who in a totally unbelievable fashion is teamed with Ben in order to utilize her unique insights into the case and her analytical skills honed as an investigative reporter for THE WASHINGTON POST.  And for fans of the series, MAX, Dillon?s computer sidekick, provides invaluable help before the chase is over. Unfortunately, much of the dialog is totally inappropriate and becomes almost laughable at times. Furthermore, the paragraph breaks often make it unintelligible who is actually speaking. There are on occasion paragraph breaks in the middle of comments by the same speaker; at times, the narrative perspective seems to suddenly change. Finally, the romantic subplot is so predictable it lacks any interest at all. <br /> <br />In summary, a potentially interesting villain and a plot with great potential have been sacrificed to the apparent desire to keep to a publishing schedule of a book each summer. I only generously rounded my rating up because there are two aspects of the book which certain readers will enjoy. First, there is some minimal further character development for the truly devoted fans of Savich and Sherlock; the true series addicts will probably enjoy this element. Second, the plot?s potential is interesting although unrealized. Very surprisingly, the distribution of the ratings of this book by the seventeen previous reviewers exhibits a wide dispersion of opinion. The average of three stars to date derives from an entirely level distribution ? three readers each rated it one, three or five stars, four readers each rated it two or four stars. I believe that this difference of opinion reflects how different types of readers relate to the various factors that I mention in this review. Someone who is perhaps a speed reader and primarily interested in a plot (or two) with some interesting twists might easily overlook many of the features that I consider to be very significant flaws. Much of my interest in reading derives from the subtleties of character development, the intricate details which clever writers weave into the fabric of their stories, and the careful construction of the narrative and a wonderful use of language. By definition, any subjective rating system incorporates how an individual reader balances all these diverse factors when deciding which books provide a pleasurable and worthwhile experience. The strengths of this book no where near compensated me for the severe weaknesses with regard to any of those factors. <br /> <br />Tucker Andersen <br />	2004-07-22
US	50223242	R37UWDVB1I36D6	0743410165	62211306	The Will	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Henry Mathews and the Birdman Search for Salvation	THE WILL is a complex story that defies simple categorization. It is nominally a legal thriller;  its title certainly reinforces that impression but little of the action actually takes place inside a courtroom. The legal maneuverings instead form the basis for a complex tale that is part mystery, part political intrigue, part romance, part religion and philosophy, and primarily a study of human relationships and psychology.  If you enjoy simple mysteries and action thrillers, this storyline may be too complicated and slow moving for you. However, if your reading interests incline towards stories with a more leisurely pace and substantial character development, then I highly recommend this book. I decided to read it after immensely enjoying the THE LAST GOODBYE (review 2/17/2004) by this author. While this differed in many significant respects, I found it to be an equally compelling read.<br />Henry Mathews is a young associate at a prestigious Chicago law firm with a high powered partner as his patron. His drop dead gorgeous girlfriend Elaine is on an equally fast track at her brokerage firm. Together, they seem to be the prototypical unstoppable power couple with everything within their grasp. Suddenly an apparently minor detour appears in Henry's path; he is notified that Tyler Crandall, the richest man in his tiny hometown of Council Grove, Kansas has died and Henry feels dutybound to return to unseal and execute THE WILL. It had been prepared by Henry's father shortly before he and Henry's mother were killed in a tragic automoblie accident several years earlier; its contents have remained unknown to everyone except Ty Crandall and Henry's father until this moment. When Crandall's family (as well as the residents of the town and several powerfully and poitically connected Kansans) learn that the estate was left primarily to a local resident nicknamed The Birdman (Raymond Boyd), chaos erupts! Ty's son Roger wants to challenge the will, but can only do so at greatpotential cost to both  his mother and himself. Henry is forced to confront his feeling about his father's relatively unsuccessful career and his loss of faith resulting from the accident. (Upon the death of his parents, Henry had immediately left the seminary where he had been studying.) He can still recall his fear of and fascination with The Birdman during his childhood days in Council Grove. Now he quickly has to determine if he should attempt to enforce the provisions of a will that makes a multimillionaire of an apparently crazy man who has spent most of his life in the town park with a huge bird as his only companion and who had no known contact with Crandall. (I found Raymond Boyd to be a wonderfully drawn character, the gradual insights provided into his seemingly mad ravings with spiritual overtones were very well handled.)<br />There are an several intertwined threads to the story; a full description would both be beyond the scope of this review and also impossible without spoilers. The reader is soon introduced to Amanda Ashton, whose efforts to convince the Kansas legislature that she should be allowed to investigate the environmental hazards which old oil wells pose to local groundwater has raised the ire of Carl Durand, a powerful state senator with ties to Crandall and his son Roger. How their lives all intersect become one of the major threads in this novel. Finally, as Henry attempts to balance his time in Council Grove with his job in Chicago, a crisis erupts which forces him to reexamine his goals in order to avoid his own potential &quot;moral deconstruction&quot;. The latter part of this book gradually uncovers the mystery that has lain hidden below the surface of Council Grove for decades and caused the mental anguish of Raymond Boyd. It is about how the cancer of lies can kill souls and destroy lives, and major segments of the book involve Henry wrestling with the deep spirtual emptiness that followed his rejection of a role for God in his life following his parents' death. The author handles this element incredibly well and  I believe that it is essential to the storyline and enhances the narrative, but it certainly separates this from the usual action thriller.<br />This is a powerful story of how Henry's attempt to find redemption and perhaps even salvation for Raymond leads to new insights into his own life as well. There are some characters here who are as complex as the story itself; the reader comes to appreciate their struggles to overcome the roadblocks put in their way and the costly mistakes which they have made.  My only minor criticism/caution is that while the action is almost continuous and often compelling, there are so many elements to this  tale that it takes quite a while for them all to coalesce. Although this book is very differnt in plot construction than THE LAST GOODBYE. I found it every bit as enjoyable. The philosophical discussion of the characters' lives and the role of their ethical choices was an integral element in the richness of both stories; the major difference was the central role which the element of spirituality played in this book.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-07-19
US	50223242	R1Z6S4V3XBX9JB	158851921X	439682540	The Tattered Coat	Books	3	0	0	N	N	(3-) Love is Forever!  Are Hatred and Death Also?	My reaction to this book by Stephen Sulik was complex! I found a great deal that deserves praise but also enough faults that my overall rating rises only to the level of three stars. This review attempts to present a detailed discussion of both the positive and negative aspects of my reaction. A reader with different reading preferences or tastes could easily reach a much different conclusion than mine (as several more favorable reviews indicate). What is completely evident is that the author has strong feelings about several issues addressed by this story and writes passionately concerning them. The book is relatively short and a very easy and quite compelling read; if there are aspects which might interest you, I would urge you to read it and then write your own review.<br />This book begins with a fast paced and stressful account of the last few hours in the lives of  two star crossed young lovers, Laura and Emil, in a war torn country years ago. This chapter contained powerful imagery and intense emotion, and despite its apparent disconnection to the next few chapters of the story, it is in fact crucial and the details are cleverly interwoven into the later segments of the story. My view is that the author would have been well served by expanding this chapter into a quite riveting standalone short story. In some ways, such an approach would have been a much more feasible method of examining the possibility of reincarnation and its effect on our lives and actions (one of the many interrelated storylines).<br />The second and third chapters are set in the present in Houston, Texas and provide the background for the remainder of the story. We first witness an obvious psychopath commit a brutal murder. Next we are introduced to Houston Police Detective Sean Jamison, a loner more interested in whether he is so burned out that it is time for him to retire than in the serial murderer preying on vulnerable female residents of his city. Of course, these diverse elements(a deranged serial killer, Sean Jamison and his solitary lifestyle, and that scene of terror played out long ago and far away) will all manage to coalesce before the story is concluded.<br />The remainder of the story is a straight police procedural with the overlay of a romance which utilizes reincarnation as a plot device. This is further complicated by a philosophical discussion of the role of violence in what he views as a male dominated society (undoubtedly based on Sulik's own experiences during his law enforcement career). An effort to convincingly weave together all these diverse threads would be difficult even if attempted by a more accomplished author in a much longer novel. Despite the author's best efforts, the result here is not wholly satisfactory. He rushes through sections that deserve a fuller and more nuanced treatment, but takes much too long to deliver his sermon and tie up all the loose ends at the conclusion. (He accomplishes this admirably; answers were provided concerning all the details which I had questioned. In contrast, except for the use of reincarnation as a convenient plot device, there is no real discussion of this very controversial topic.) Thus, by trying to do so much, Sulik dilutes his effort and lessens his accomplishment. Due to his career, this story works best as a police procedural, with the romance element as an additional intriguing twist that adds to the reader's interest and Sean Jamison's motivation. I believe that inclusion of the idea of reincarnation, while well integrated into the story, added unnecessary complexity. A simpler story might have allowed for the development of deeper and richer detail about the characters and their actions and emotions. Finally, while the author's message concerning our societal shortcomings is obviously heartfelt, it needs to be more skillfully integrated (a feat very difficult to manage) in order not to impede his ability to reach his potential audience.<br />One major note of praise,I really liked the way in which \\"THE BALLAD OF READING GAOL\\" by Oscar Wilde and to a lesser extent \\"THINKING OF LAURA\\" and \\"MARY IN THE MORNING\\" were integrated into the story. This thoughtfulness and attention to detail was very well handled, and simply made me more keenly aware of the partially unrealized potential of this work. Additionally, the cover artwork was some of the most appropriate that I have seen.<br />Finally, his publisher unfortunately did not provide the editing support which any writer deserves. The primary problem was incorrect grammar and inappropriate usage of words and concepts. (In one case, there were three such errors on a single page.) In my opinion, an important element of writing involves using language correctly; unfortunately for many authors, editing is one of their obligations that seemingly is increasingly ignored by many publishers.<br />Disclaimer: The publisher furnished a copy of this book to me in the hope that I would read and review it. I made no advance commitment to do so and have no relationship to anyone associated with this book. Nevertheless, I believe that I should make this fact known in the interest of full disclosure. I was hesitant to accept the offer, both because I was concerned about the level of violence and because I have had disappointing experiences regarding the quality of the editing with other books from this publisher. My first concern was relatively unfounded, the descriptions of violence are generally brief and not overly graphic; my second concern was completely justified and in fact a contributing factor to my neutral rating.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-07-15
US	50223242	R2SVWFO4JQDGMQ	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	4	9	12	N	N	(4+) A Profound Emotional, Spiritual and Physical Quest	When the author Lawrence McAuliffe contacted me to request that I review PURPLE SUN, I was hesitant to accede to his request for three reasons. First, books by unknown authors and published by small presses are often disappointingly amateurish and also poorly edited. Reading them is frustrating and my review then often disappoints the author. Second, I was in the service during the Vietnam War, but I was stationed in suburban Maryland rather than overseas and do not bear the deep emotional scars that were wreaked upon many of the active combatants in that war. (My emotions about that time in our country's history remain very complex.) Third, most of the literature which I have read involving the war includes a fair degree of graphic violence and is in addition often very depressing, both of these are attributes which I try to avoid in my reading pursuits. Fortunately, after a brief email exchange McAuliife convinced me that my concerns with regard to his book were misplaced, and thus I agreed to read and review it. This is a small book but the story raises big questions and involves the exceedingly powerful and consequential issues of faith and redemption, and the role that our interconnectedness as human beings plays in our lives. <br />As the visually arresting cover of this book indicates, this is an \\"epic tale of war and redemption, leading from the mountains of Vietnam to the mountains of Wyoming\\" and also bridging a chasm of twenty-eight years in the lives of the central characters. It is a narrative of the attempts of several individuals to find the answers to questions which haunt their lives; their interrelationship eventually leads each of them to the peace that emanates from an understanding of their unique role in the drama of human existence. Further, it is an affirmation of the unquenchable light of the human spirit. <br />This story details how the painful experience of the Vietnam War forged an invisible lifelong bond among Corporal Billy Kern, Master Sergeant Isaiah Ross (and his wife Miriam), and Lieutenant Patric Gallo. It is also in some small measure the story of Troung,  a Vietnamese whose life was changed by his experience as Patric's and Isaiah's guide when they returned to search for Billy Kern twenty-eight years after he mysteriously disappeared into the mountains of Vietnam in a search for personal redemption. Finally, the account is framed by Harlan Deveraux, the owner and editor of the BIGWATER (WY.) COUNTY EAGLE, who in fulfilling his role discovered his connection to strangers from worlds seemingly far removed from his own. Thus, it is in part his story as well. (The author is a disabled veteran who served in Vietnam as a Marine lieutenant and later as a chaplain; it is undoubtedly in large measure also a reflection upon his experiences.)<br />Reading PURPLE SUN led me to recall the insights from two of my favorite PROVERBS (quoted here from the GOOD NEWS BIBLE). First, Chapter 20 Verse 30, \\"Sometimes it takes a painful experience to make us change our ways\\" and Ch. 4 V. 18, \\"The road the righteous travel is like the sunrise, getting brighter and brighter until daylight has come\\". Perhaps the impact is best summarized by the conclusion of Isaiah as the chanting of the Buddhist monks reverberated in his brain - that it was \\"not a requiem hymn, but one of celebration\\". While the last brief chapter and the epilogue provide considerable closure for the participants in this tale, the insights resulting from their individual journeys toward their common destination transmit a continuing powerful emotional impact to the reader.<br />This book was short and the narrative was not only compelling but also a fast and easy read; nevertheless, I have found it difficult to compose a review that does justice to the underlying complexity of this seemingly simple story. I only hope that my musings will be sufficiently informative and enthusiastic to encourage potential readers to examine  their own humanity by returning to Vietnam with Isaiah and Patric in a search both for the closure and also the hope for the future that only the discovery of the truth concerning Billy Kern might furnish. While the book will undoubtedly have special significance for Vietnam era vets, it is a story of powerful emotions which contains profound insights for any reader.<br />This book is very well edited and constructed for a novel by a first time author and published by a small press; nevertheless, a few elements were responsible for my rating not rising to five stars. They all relate to the structure of the story, which I found somewhat awkward and not fully satisfying in a few regards. First, the transition from the prologue and three introductory chapters told from the omniscient narrator point of view to a story told by a first person narrator is very abrupt. Furthermore, this transition recurs at other points in the story. Second, and related to this same storytelling methodology, there are jumps in the timeline (including flashbacks) which are a little disconcerting. This is accomplished in part through the technique of Harlan reading Patric's diary, but the demarcation of the various narrators was not always clear. Third, as another reviewer has perceptively commented, the story is effectively neither a novella or a full length novel. While that reviewer would have preferred a more tightly written novella, my preference would have been for a slightly longer story with more character development of some of the minor characters and a slightly expanded conclusion. While none of these are major criticisms, they combined to cause me to reduce my rating slightly.         <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-07-13
US	50223242	R27JBJLL05D4D5	0312331754	399241825	Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Legacy	Books	4	115	140	N	N	(4 1/2) Jason Bourne Outlives Robert Ludlum	Robert Ludlum was often credited with being the creator of the modern day action/adventure/international conspiracy genre that provides a riveting reading experience and at the same time reinforces the cynicism so prevalent regarding our powerful political institutions. The sales of his novels certainly reached unparalleled heights, with each successive book further embellishing his reputation and delighting his legions of devoted readers. As difficult as it usually is to identify the most memorable character among the many created by a writer as prolific as Ludlum, the adventures and experiences of Jason Bourne in THE BOURNE IDENTITY almost undeniably created a character who universally captivated Ludlum's fans and whose presence seemed to demand that Ludlum return to create a series that would further enlighten his readers about both Bourne's future and his past. Thus, over the next several years THE BOURNE SUPREMACY and THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM formed a powerful trilogy which has led to the character coming to life on film, with the timing of the release of this book roughly coinciding with the movie sequel starring Matt Damon.<br />Ludlum's fans know that Jason Bourne was the identity created and embellished by the CIA for a legendary undercover CIA operative whose real name was David Webb. Unfortunately, a deep cover operation in which Bourne/Webb was engaged went perilously wrong, and Webb has struggled for years to recover his lost memories and return his life to a semblance of normalcy. He has officially retired from the life of clandestine ops, has a wife and family and is a professor at Georgetown University. However, his deep friendship with his former CIA controller (Alex Conklin, who plays a key role in this story) allows him to maintain contact with his previous world. Suddenly, Webb finds himself the target of an incredibly skilled assassin and after his escape he finds himself at the center of a very complicated plot to frame him for several murders. Thus, cut off from most of his usual resources in the international law enforcement community, he must retreat into deep cover and use all the skills developed during his career as Bourne to stay alive and untangle the web which has been spun by a master at the high stakes game of international political intrigue and terror. The story is fast paced, the action almost non-stop, and the storyline sufficiently convoluted and the misdirection frequent enough to maintain the reader's interest. There are several other interesting characters, and a really dislikable villain, although I cannot go into details without providing spoilers. <br />This is the first book that I have read by Eric Van Lustbader, so I cannot compare it to his  previous work. Fortunately, he did not choose to attempt to imitate Ludlum's style (this fact might disappoint some readers), but rather chose to continue the Ludlum and  BOURNE LEGACY by adopting the trademark Ludlum techniques which I have previously described but utilizing his own methodology to tell the story. Much of Jason Bourne's backstory in the jungles of Vietnam is cleverly interwoven as an essential element of this tale, I hope that some day it will be revealed how much of this was created by Ludlum before his death and how much was this author's invention. ( Many of Ludlum's fans remain curious regarding his role in the creation of THE JANSON DIRECTIVE and THE TRISTAN BETRAYAL, the two novels completed by others after his death.) This book is also much more philosophical in tone than most of Ludlum's work, but that factor is essential to the story.<br />I highly recommend this book despite one meaningful flaw and one personal dislike. My dislike is the descriptions of torture and violence, which while infrequent were a little brutal for me. More importantly, there were a few instances where the escapes were a little too miraculous and the feats of physical prowess were unbelievable rather than improbable. All authors in this genre walk the fine line of implausibility veering into impossibility, and in some cases I thought this author wrote his characters into situations which left him without any believable methods of achieving the objectives of his narrative. I want to emphasize that despite these criticisms this is a pageturner with the type of palpable tension which epitomizes the Ludlum style. I was fortunate enough to discover Robert Ludlum when THE SCARLATTI INHERITANCE was first published, and read every subsequent book immediately upon publication (except THE ROAD TO GANDOLFO, originally published under a pseudonym) and enjoyed them all tremendously. Not only will this book provide enjoyment to Ludlum fans, but clearly if it achieves commercial success THE BOURNE LEGACY will include a further sequel. The conclusion of this story and the new addition to the cast of characters certainly foreshadow such a development. <br />One final recommendation for Ludlum fans - as you may be aware Ludlum was a fan of the writer Gayle Lynds and she was his coauthor for three of his last books. While the plots were not as complex as the books for which he was the sole author, this collaboration allowed him to increase his productivity in the years preceding his death. While these stories never achieved the success of his other work, they alerted me to the work of Lynds, and I strongly recommend two of her works which I have read. The initial volume (which definitely should be read first) is MASQUERADE (review 3/4/2004) and the sequel is THE COIL (review 3/16/2004).To date these have not achieved the success which they deserve in my estimation, but they are definitely Ludlumesque in plotting and complexity, although with much greater character development.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-07-08
US	50223242	R28NQFA1WDTD46	0785262199	266824494	Uncle Sam's Plantation: How Big Government Enslaves America's Poor and What We Can Do About It	Books	5	47	60	N	N	(4 1/2) Wonderful Insights Gained From Personal Experience	I first met Star Parker several years ago when she spoke at a conference which I attended.  I was impressed both by the story of her personal journey and her articulateness in discussing many of the problems which face our society today; thus I made the effort to speak with her after her presentation and have subsequently become a contributor to her organization CURE, the Coalition on Urban Renewal and Education. She was kind enough to mail copies of her book to her supporters last year when it was first published;  now that I have finally found the time to read it I highly recommend it to any reader interested in the inspiring personal story of someone who has not only overcome the destructive effects of the problems frequently keeping the underclass in poverty and addicted to welfare (as well as personal tragedy which would have overwhelmed many individuals), but who has also utilized the lessons drawn from her experience to preach the gospel of self reliance, faith (in both ourselves and the existence of a higher power who can provide us strength and direction) and individual responsibility as the crucial elements which will empower individuals to escape the poverty trap of the welfare system.<br />Star Parker doesn't hesitate to speak truth to power, since she has the credentials to do so. She has lived the self destructive and joyless life so prevalent in the welfare community and she has overcome incredible obstacles (often self imposed). Thus, while anyone can fairly disagree with her often controversial conclusions and recommendations, she clearly has the moral legitimacy to present them. These are insights invariably gained from personal experience and sharpened by an enquiring mind. The key thesis of this book is captured by the subtitle - HOW BIG GOVERNMNT ENSLAVES AMERICA'S POOR AND WHAT WE CAN DO ABOUT IT. She begins by attempting to define and characterize the poor, she discusses three broad categories of those individuals united by their lack of money. The first is those who are \\"economically challenged\\", who she meaningfully separates into the \\"weary poor\\" vs. the \\"hopeful poor\\". The second category is the \\"lazy poor\\", who can be subdivided into \\"the careless, the sluggards and the scoffers\\". Finally, there are the poor in spirit, or \\"the broken\\". While these are obviously not precisely defined groups based on rigorous academic study, they are very useful constructs which spring from her practical experience. These groupings serve two purposes. First, to remind us that poverty is not a homogeneous problem with a single set of solutions, but rather a complex issue best addressed by \\"creating new possibilities for those who still can be helped, one person at a time.\\"  Second, these practically descriptive terms are much more effective than the usual academic and political jargon in reminding us directly that much of the poverty in which many of these individuals are apparently hopelessly mired seems to be as much a result of their attitudes and expectations (victimology and/or entitlement) rather than being an inevitable outcome of their circumstances. <br />The author is willing to attack the sacred cows of both the left and right, and is critical of both the liberal belief that racism (as the legacy of slavery) is still an impossible barrier for blacks to overcome without government help and also of President Bush's suggestion of government support for successful faith based initiatives in the private sector. (She correctly recognizes that government support means that they will loose the flexibility and moral legitimacy that is conferred upon them by being truly private and thus totally voluntary.) After outlining in detail her criticisms of the \\"poverty plantation operated by a federal government, overseen by bureaucrats, protected by the media elite, and financed by taxpayers\\", she proceeds to her \\"mission-critical challenges\\" and a six pronged agenda as a response to the interrelated problems of race and poverty. First, \\"dismantle so-called multiculturalism\\". Second, \\"abolish affirmative action\\". Third, \\"Abandon the faith-based initiative\\". Fourth, \\"personalize welfare services\\". Fifth, allow school choice\\". Sixth, \\"personalize social security\\". Certainly, implementation of this radical agenda would strengthen the role of personal responsibility in society and at the same time arguably promote freedom and broaden the opportunities for individuals to escape poverty as opposed to simply subsisting on the life support provided by the current welfare system.<br />As I have previously said, this book describes the devastating effects of government dependency not from an academic perspective but rather through the eyes of someone who has escaped from the addiction which entraps so many individuals. The book is almost conversational in tone, yet provides many powerful philosophical insights and much well reasoned discussion. At times, some of the imagery created by the author's prose almost becomes poetic. While I was familiar with both the author's background and much of her philosophy, I still found the book both enjoyable and thought provoking. My only major criticism and the primary reason that I did not rate it a full five stars is her overemphasis (in my opinion) on the importance, indeed necessity, of the religious component as an essential element in her proposed reforms and involvement of the private sector. For many individuals (myself definitely included), this is undoubtedly a major factor in their ability to overcome the obstacles which they face, as it has been for her. (And as it also is for those who experience physical addiction and join such organizations as NA and AA.) Nevertheless, I would have been pleased to see a somewhat more pluralistic approach, and a recognition that personal empowerment can be achieved by individuals through a variety of means more diverse than she recognizes here.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-24
US	50223242	R3RS2BYZZXJN0A	0743453972	977134384	Memorial Day (Mitch Rapp)	Books	5	3	8	N	N	(4 1/2 ) Mitch Rapp Fights Terrorism and the Bureaucracy	This is a fast paced, violent, well plotted thriller devoted to the topic du jour - a terrorist plot directed by Islamic extremists to launch a covert nuclear attack within the United States. It is written utilizing the same style as Flynn's other books featuring Mitch Rapp (see 7/31/03 review of EXECUTIVE POWER); it consists of  rapid fire action sequences mixed with occasional detailed technical discussion of various aspects of intelligence work and weapons systems and coupled with frequent asides concerning Mitch's extreme frustration with the political interference which he encounters. The plot is relatively straightforward, with just enough feints to keep it mildly interesting. The author retains the reader's interest through the detailed storyline which he weaves combined with  the compelling nature of Rapp's character and the timeliness of the tale.<br />The story begins shortly before MEMORIAL DAY 2004, when Mitch uncovers evidence of a plot by a cell of al Queda terrorists which leads to a highly secret Army raid across the Afghan border into Pakistan. Detailed files and maps are unearthed which inescapably lead to the conclusion that the terrorists are planning an attack on DC. Information is gradually assembled that indicates that the attack is to being planned so as to inflict the maximum number of casualties of high ranking political figures by being timed to coincide with the Memorial Day dedication of the new WWII Memorial on Washington Mall. (I don't consider this a spoiler since the title effectively reveals this fact.) As the terrorists and their weapons are tracked to the US through a combination of high tech means and the old fashioned technique of torture, plot complications soon arise. Perhaps there is more than one terror cell operating, with each one having no knowledge of the actions or goals of the others. (Compartmentalization being one of the key methodologies employed by terrorists to keep detailed knowledge of their plans from  fallinginto the hands of their adversaries if one of them is captured.) The clock is ticking, the pace is quickening, and Rapp's frustration is mounting.<br />The usual cast of characters from previous novels is all here, including old friends from the FBI and CIA and Mitch's sympathetic boss Irene Kennedy. There are plenty of new DC operatives too, including super lawyer Peggy Stealy, who turns out to be a formidable roadblock in Mitch's attempts to elicit crucial information from a captive terrorist. President Hayes is still grateful to Mitch for saving his life, but as an election year approaches he is constantly advised by his political operatives, especially his Chief of Staff Valerie Jones, to distance himself from Mitch, who she regards as a political landmine. (As an aside, the political timing is off here, since part of the plot regards some machinations regarding who Hayes will choose as his running mate.) And, of course, there are enough al Queda operatives and sympathizers that I found it convenient to keep a pencil and paper handy to keep track of them.<br />I enjoyed the story, and found much of it to be a very timely cautionary tale regarding the United States' current situation. And I certainly share the sentiments frequently expressed by the author through Mitch and his allies concerning the impact of the political bureaucracy upon our efforts to fight terrorism. While I rounded my rating up to five stars, there are a few criticisms that are worth including in this review. First, as I stated previously, with a few clever exceptions this is a very straightforward plot with very few surprises. Second, as in many novels of this genre, many the characters are so type cast that they approach caricatures with almost no nuances in their actions and beliefs. While this is understandable with regard to the terrorists, it is true of almost everyone - either hero or villain, good guy or pure evil. Last, the author's preaching is way overdone with regard to the controversy regarding the impact of the Patriot Act on the balancing act which is necessary between our civil liberties and the actions necessary to preserve our freedom. This is a very nuanced question about which individuals who consider themselves patriots can disagree, yet at times I almost felt as if the whole purpose of the book was to present the author (using the voice of Mitch Rapp) with a platform for his political diatribe in favor of a no holds barred, anything goes, approach toward our enemies. So, enjoy the book, but don't expect subtlety.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-14
US	50223242	RPOBM94NWEC6G	1572235004	67832717	101 Uses for a Dog	Books	4	5	5	N	N	(4+) Six Star Pictures, Three Star Price	A TRUE DOG LOVER'S DELIGHT! Charming, fun, cute, adorable are all words which can be used to describe this wonderful little book. It is a collection of 101 well-chosen pictures of dogs with a descriptive word or phrase as the title of each picture. The book is divided into four loosely grouped themes. First is titled &quot;in and around the house&quot; and is composed of 24 pictures. Second is &quot;as playmates&quot;, 22 pictures. Next is &quot;as tireless helper&quot;, 28 pictures, Last is &quot;and specialty uses&quot;, 27 pictures. <br />There are a myriad of breeds, but not surprisingly given their popularity and photogenic qualities, golden retreivers and black labs are most heavily represented. (This was fine with me, since we own one of each.) All different sizes and ages appear, and in fact one of the really nice pairings is the juxtaposition of &quot;someone to grow up with&quot; followed by &quot;someone to grow old with&quot;. Some of the other entries familiar to any dog owner or fan are &quot;gardener&quot; (and the related &quot;landscaper&quot;), &quot;exercise partner&quot; and not surprisingly the classic &quot;rescuer&quot;. (Guess which breed?) There are also such clever poses as the &quot;weathervane&quot; and the &quot;water quality specialist&quot;. It is hard to choose a favorite, but I would probably chose &quot;surrogate  sister&quot; although the &quot;lookout&quot; , the &quot;bellhops&quot;,  the &quot;partners-in-crime &quot; and &quot;playing hide and seek' are close runnersup. <br />This is a wonderful book to keep on a coffee table or in a reading basket. Your guests will enjoy perusing it and you will want to just pick it up from time to time when you want to look  at something that will quickly elict a smile. Note that is very small, but the size is appropriate for the format. As noted above, my only complaint is that it is overpriced if you pay full price. It is clearly meant to appeal to people as an impulse purchase or small gift item; I picked it up next to a cash register at a gift shop while on vacation, and I was entranced enough that I decided to buy it but felt as if I was being overcharged (similar to many other items in the store). However, I am glad that I purchased it - the pictures have been a source of frequent joy since then. It would certainly make a wonderful gift for any dog lover who you know, it is appropriate for all ages.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-13
US	50223242	R1MOSVGM0EERUB	0805065334	262562785	The Brass Wall: The Betrayal of Undercover Detective #4126	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Where Is The Outrage?	This is a well written, well documented and SPELLBINDING account of the life threatening betrayal of NYC undercover detective Vincent Armanti by a fellow police officer and his subsequent encounter with THE BRASS WALL thrown up by the NYPD hierarchy in order to protect a powerful commander and in an attempt to shield the department from unfavorable publicity and the ongoing political efforts to implement civilian oversight.  Armanti, detective #4126, was a skilled operative who had successfully completed several undercover assignments due to his ability to adopt the personae of the targets of the operations in which he was involved - whether hit men , drug dealers, gunrunners or the Cosa Nostra. Thus, when he is recruited for an assignment involving the arson investigation of a Queens fire that had taken the life of Lieutenant Thomas Williams, a member of an elite rescue unit and a personal hero to many of his comrades, Armanti eventually finds the assignment irresistible despite his promise to his long time girlfriend Judy that he would not return to the streets after a recent brush with death and his transfer to the narcotics training unit. <br />He perfects the transition to Vinnie \\"Blue Eyes\\" Penisi, complete with the background of an ex-con and the attitude necessary to enter the closely knit world of the wiseguys of Throgs Neck, an insular neighborhood that unfortunately is not only the home of the small time mobsters suspected of the arson of a failed clothing store and the upstairs apartment from which Williams fell to his death, but also the neighborhood in which NYPD Inspector James Wyrnn lives and had raised his son, Detective John Wrynn.. Three months into the undercover investigation, an incident occurs which convinces Armanti that his cover has been blown and leads him to suspect a leak from within the department. He decides to continue despite being terrified that he may become the target of a mob hit and infuriated by the lack of cooperation (and insome instances outright obstruction) that he receives from officers high up the chain of command in Internal Affairs. Despite the lack of support (bordering on open hostility) towards the continuation of his investigation, in cooperation with a friends in the NYPD together with dedicated fire department investigators who still wanted to avenge their comrade's death, and the help of the FBI he manages to gradually develop a very strong web of circumstantial evidence against the suspected arsonist and the owners of the property that had been torched. More worrisomely, he also has assembled a trail of evidence that implicates Inspector Wyrnn of leaking information to his boyhood buddies about several investigations, and, even more seriously, that his father had used his powerful position and reciprocity due him from a favor of years ago to repeatedly interfere with the course of the investigation.<br />As indicated in the author's note, \\"this is a true story. It does not use composite characters, invented dialog, or other techniques of fictionalization.\\" The only literary license was to change the names of the two undercover cops involved in order to protect their safety. Thus, in these pages you will find specific references to the roles in this drama of such well known individuals as Police Commissioners Kelly, Bratton, and Safir, Federal Judge Jack Weinstein and Mayors Dinkins and Guiliani. In fact, one of the really helpful literary touches given the complexity of the case is the extensive cast of characters at the beginning of the book which can be used for easy reference.<br />This is a cautionary tale that unfortunately illustrates exceedingly well the understandable but ultimately destructive tendency of all large organizations to close ranks and protect their own at any cost when faced with scandal or facts which may prove harmful to either the organization or one of its powerful members. Of course, when it the police who are involved, the power which the department wields often makes it almost impossible for the usual safeguards against such abuses of power to function. In this case, bureaucratic inertia and active contempt for the law are both at work. The book's author is a very talented writer who succeeds in making a gripping story come to life. He actually covered segments of the story after meeting Armanti while police bureau chief for the New York Times, and his intimate knowledge allows him to present a compelling story. (The footnotes at the back of the book provide context and list many of his sources. In addition, much of the dialog comes directly from taped conversations conducted by Armanti while undercover.)<br />I found this story riveting, and am thankful for the perseverance of true heroes such as Detective #4126. I am disappointed that the book did not get more widespread publicity when originally published, and hope that it gradually attains a wide readership. One final note: at the time of this review, there have been nine previous reviews written here, of which six have been five stars including one by a seemingly knowledgeable individual who claims to be able to vouch for the accuracy of the story based in his first hand knowledge.  The remaining three reviews (one and two star) are all very brief and with anonymous authorship, and seem primarily intent on disparaging the credibility of the tale. Yet they offer no information to dispute any of the facts, and despite the depiction of several individuals in a very unflattering manner (incompetent, petty, and corrupt), to my knowledge no one has chosen to publicly dispute the charges or file suit against the publisher. (Given the voluminous evidence, including internal police documents and the trial transcripts of the defendants, it is not surprising that the only challenges are from a few anonymous individuals whose reputations have probably been damaged by this book.<br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED !<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-09
US	50223242	R1JHHI1HLLAUZK	039915180X	797916108	Hidden Prey	Books	4	0	1	N	N	(3 1/2) Russian Agents from the Past and the Present	This latest novel by John Sandford begins as dramatically as his other books featuring Lucas Davenport, with a murder being committed that the reader immediately understands will involve multiple threads that will eventually lead Lucas to locations and individuals far from the scene of the crime. Oleg Moshalov is murdered on a pier as he is returning to his ship, which is berthed next to a grain elevator on on the shores of Lake Superior . The case suddenly changes from a relatively low profile murder being handled by the Duluth PD to one with important political ramifications when it is discovered that the murdered seaman operating under the alias Moshalov is actually Rodion Oleshev, the son of an important Russian functionary with connections to Putin. Thus, Lucas Davenport, now officially with the BCA (Bureau of Criminal Aprrehension) but unofficially the chief troubleshooter for politically sensitive cases which might impact the governor's office, is summoned by his boss Rose Marie Roux to coordinate the murder investigation. He is then taken by surprise when the Russian agent sent from Moscow to be their liasion is Nadezhda Kalin (Nadya), a fortyish blond who speaks perfect English but is very unfamiliar with American customs, idiom and signs and is also surprisingly lacking in knowledge of police procedure.<br />This book appears to represent a continuation in the transition in the series for the author, the reader and Lucas himself that was begun with NAKED PREY. Lucas is now married to Weather, has a baby son Sam, is raising Letty West as his ward, and has been working for the BCA for six months while he is trying to figure out what to do with his life because he &quot;wasn't sure that {he} could stop&quot; working. Thus, in many ways it is different in tone than many of the earlier books, and this has understandably upset some of the long time fans of the series. Lucas is a happily married man, and the intersting byplay with women that has been an element of some of the earlier stories is relegated to a signifcant but minor episode between two of the other characters. He still owns the Porsche, but instead drives his Acura in this book, and seems much more mellow and philosophical both regarding his life and the outcome of this investigation.<br />There is plenty of action, several more brutal murders, and lots of interesting obsrvations regarding police work, but this is much more in the tradition of straight police procedurals than a complicated murder mystery. Lucas is the primary narrator of the story, but in an interesting twist, minor but crucially important segments of the story are narrated in the first person by two of the other characters who are central to the story - the homeless woman Trey and Grandpa Burt Walther. As Lucas pursues the truth and his HIDDEN PREY, he will have to travel to the sparsely populated iron range country of Minnesota and back in time to unravel a story that began in the  mists of long ago when the Communist Soviet Union and the US were powerful adversaries. <br />There is more humor and a lighter tone than previously in the series; in fact, the four page episode regarding the garage door incident is truly hilarious. There are also several sections which briefly weave in some meaningful philosophical insights regarding various aspects of life, including a wonderful comment by Nadya regarding the work ethic of Americans and the lack of time which it sometimes engenders when they are &quot;too busy making signs&quot;. And we have a new character apparently added to the cast, Mickey Andreno, a retired cop from St. Louis, who we can expect to appear as an aide to Lucas in some future story. (Unfortunately, Del Capslock, Lucas' frequent sidekick, is busy with another investigation.)<br />So, while I enjoyed this book a lot and certainly recommend it, I was also disappointed. The story is too linear in nature, and the only suspense regards who will get murdered before Lucas (with the help of the local cops and the FBI) eventually solves the crimes. Nadya is an interesting charcter but too one dimensional and slightly unbelievable; however, I would enjoy seeing her again in a future episode. And the conclusion is somewhat anticlimactic and slightly disappointing. The sidestory of Trey is quite interesting but remains largely undeveloped. And finally, after really enjoying NAKED PREY and the development of the character Letty West, I was disappointed that she was away at camp and played no role in this book. My last piece of advice is to keep a chart of the genealogy of the various members of the several families whose relationships form the core of this story. (If you own the software program INSPIRATION, you could use it as Lucas does.) If you are a John Sandford fan, you will probably enjoy this book as long your expectations are not too high, but it is not up to the quality of the last few Lucas Davenport stories or the exceptionally well done THE HANGED MAN'S SONG, where the transition faced by KIDD when Bobby is murdered is much more interesting than is this phase of Lucas' life.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-07
US	50223242	R1HQO13PSWBB7M	052594821X	89678523	The Hundredth Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	(4+) Redemption and Hope Emerge From Violence and Abuse	WARNING: This book is not for the squeamish. It contains child abuse, psychotic and perverted acts, multiple murders, detailed descriptions of autopsies, sexual references and crude and offensive language. In fact, since this is a list of all the things that I normally avoid when selecting literature to read, I am amazed that I enjoyed the book so much and was fascinated enough to not only complete it but in fact give it a high rating. While I knew it contained violence from the publisher's descriptive material, the plot and promotional blurbs combined with my attraction to first time authors to pique my interest; by the time I realized the extent of the normally objectionable material I was hooked. <br />Jack Kerney is a talented wordsmith with a deep understanding of the flawed nature of humankind and the depravity which often results. However, in contrast with the pessimism (indeed fatalism) that Dennis Lehane's writing displays (particularly MYSTIC RIVER) concerning the seemingly inexorably tragic nature of our lives, in the end this is a story about the possibility that redemption is possible and that tomorrow may indeed be better than the past.<br />The main storyline is incredibly simple. Carson Ryder, a twenty-nine year old with an MA in psychology, is a newly minted detective in the Mobile, AL police force and the first person narrator of the majority of this story. He is teamed with old pro Harry Nautilus as the two newly formed members of the Psychopathological and Sociopathological Investigative Team (PSIT - pronounced piss-it by the other members of the department). As the newly rebuilt city morgue is being dedicated after it had been severely damaged during an autopsy on a booby-trapped body, a headless victim is found in a local park and it appears that Harry and Carson will be investigating their first official case. Departmental politics soon become an issue, and the tension increases as further headless bodies appear. Meanwhile, there are multiplesubplots involving Carson's secret past and the reasons for his seeming prescience regarding the actions of the mentally ill and sociopaths. There are additional subplots including the intertwined public and private lives of Dr. Clair Peltier, outstanding pathologist and chief of the Mobile unit of the Alabama as well as her apparently strained relationship with her young associate Dr. Ava Davanelle.  There are also very knowledgeable and sensitive segments which are central to the plot including the personal perdition of alcoholism and the necessity of approaching your salvation one day at a time.<br />Every detail should be noted and remembered, because by the conclusion all the threads in the book come together and have meaning in the same way that the \\"invisible threads\\" in the case that bedevil Harry and Carson start to reveal themselves and unravel the mystery (despite their dictum that \\"memories {of witnesses} are faulty and people lie\\"). So this is a book about the human condition and a story of multiple personal journeys (several tragic) toward the goals of understanding, grace and redemption. The language and visual imagery which it evokes is often superb, but I would expect noting less from a former advertising writer and creative director. Two examples will suffice. First, Jeremy, Carson's brother and a crucial figure in Carson's life and to this story, at one point speculates that the headless bodies are indeed \\"postcards from hell\\" meant to communicate a very specific message from the murderer. (This seems an especially likely possibility since cryptic messages are also written on the bodies.) Second, Clair's husband's fortune (which he brought to their \\"merger' of convenience) was ante-bellum Southern money, \\"one of those snowball fortunes that gathered as it rolled\\" forward in time.<br />Why not five stars if I thought it was an excellent plot, employed engaging imagery, had fascinating characters, and used frequently captivating language? (This question seems especially since it also has the potential to be an excellent movie.) First, for the reasons articulated in my opening comments, stories with this degree of violence and perversion are never totally enjoyable for me, even if captivating. Second, the author tries to do much. He accomplishes his apparent goal admirably, but it might have been better if the case of Joel Adrian (which Carson solved as a patrolman and the description of which is totally sickening even if only summary in nature) had been a separate book that served as the introduction to Carson and this story. It would have made the flashbacks and explanatory asides less frequent and allowed for more leisurely development of the other elements of this story. Last, while the ending itself (by this I mean literally the last two pages) is both full of hope and extremely clever; the climactic action scene that is the final denouement of the story is too long, too unreal (even for this story), and as other reviewers have aptly described it, simply \\"over the top\\" in a way that creates a final impression of unreality. It is almost as if it was written to provide an exciting climax to an action movie, and is eerily parallel in this regard (right down to the raging river) to the final scene in Michael Connelly's new novel THE NARROWS. Despite these reservations, this is definitely a worthwhile read as long as my caveats aren't a major concern to you.<br />Disclaimer: I was furnished an ARC (Advance Review Copy) of this book by the publisher based on my previous reviews of books of this genre,. I have never met either the author or any representatives of the publisher. I made no representations or promises regarding any review that I might write. However, I have included this disclaimer in the interests of complete disclosure so that the reader may have all significant information concerning any facts that may be viewed as having biased my review.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-03
US	50223242	R332WN83EDWS9D	0525947981	608087708	Bubbles a Broad	Books	4	3	3	N	N	(4-)  Bubbles Solves a Murder Mystery and Finds Romance	THIS STORY IS REALLY FUN. This the first book by Sarah Strohmeyer that I have read, and thus it is also my introduction to Bubbles Yablonsky. The author can write, and Bubbles is delightful! When I read the publisher's description of this novel, I felt that it was lighter fiction than I usually read, perhaps resembling a soap opera between two book covers. However, since I am always interested in discovering new authors who I might enjoy and Ms. Strohmeyer's first novel had won an Agatha Award (best first mystery), I decided that her latest book was worth a few hours of my time. While I usually avoid terms such as chick lit because I feel that they are somewhat limiting and not actually very descriptive, in this case the term fits this book about Bubbles perfectly. However, while this book is primarily about chicks (of all types) and probably will be read primarily by chicks, I recommend it to anyone who simply wants a light read featuring a wonderful heroine (although that is not how Bubbles would describe herself).<br />BUBBLES, A BROAD from Lehigh,PA, is a hairdresser who is auditioning for a position as a reporter for the local newspaper, the NEWS-TIMES. She fancies herself an amateur detective and thus perceives an opportunity to secure her future employment by the newspaper when Carol Weaver, a local woman convicted of the murder of her husband, visits Bubbles after escaping from prison and entreats Bubbles to prove Carol's innocence. After being shocked by Carol's appearance on her doorstep, Bubbles quickly regroups and her fabulous powers of observation lead her razor sharp mind to  immediately form the question \\"More important, where did she find that matching sweater set and cashmere pearls ?\\".Bubbles is a star graduate of Two Guys Community College, a recycled discount department store where the location of the guidance counselor's cubicle is still marked by the Aisle Five sign. Therefore, not surprisingly, she has very acute powers of observation regarding all things related to fashion or hair. In one encounter she tries not to react with visible horror when one of her interviewees is actually wearing clothing constructed of \\"so many natural fibers\\". She has a strained relationship with her ex-husband Dan and worries about the advantages which he and his current wife Wendy can provide for their teenage daughter Jean in comparison with Bubbles given her current limited financial assets. Finally, her current boyfriend is Steve Stiletto, an AP reporter whose name certainly seems apt given his physique and charm. <br />So the questions multiply as the action proceeds. Will Steve and Bubbles become lovers? Will the petty jealousies at the newspaper doom Bubblers chance of gaining a permanent job as a reporter? Why doesn't Carol Weaver's pregnant daughter Kiera want to be interviewed by Bubbles? Who is Lorena Ludwig and will she remember Bubbles and the infamous glitter gel incident? Why does Jane's boyfriend \\"G\\" need a brain eraser when  he keeps referring to Bubbles as Mrs. Robinson in one of the most hilarious episodes in the book? And, oh yes, by the way, does Bubbles ever identify the murderer? Is it one of the lesbian lovers, or part of a massive corporate cover up at Lehigh Steel?<br />In the hands of a less talented author, this might have been a pale copy of a combination Harlequin romance, mystery and the soap opera to which I previously referred. But the author's touch is almost perfect, although perhaps slightly overdone at times. The pitch of the language is wonderful, and Bubbles is striving for what we all hope to accomplish - to be the best that she can be. So if you are a chick lit fan, or just want to have a good time enjoying an easy read, BUBBLES A BROAD clearly comes close to four stars. And you if you're paying attention and can get past Bubble's idiom, you'll even find some pretty insightful observations about human nature.<br />Disclaimer: Based on my previous reviews, I was furnished an ARC (Advance Review Copy) of this book by the publisher. I have never met either the author or any representatives of the publisher. I made no representations or promises regarding any review that I might write. However, I have included this disclaimer in the interests of complete disclosure so that the reader may have all significant information concerning any facts that may be viewed as having biased my review.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-03
US	50223242	R182KQSRB4JGH6	0060514957	121138293	Killer Smile	Books	5	2	4	N	N	(4 1/2) Mary DiNunzio Visits Montana and is Changed Forever	While this story can certainly be considered a murder mystery or legal thriller, it could more accurately be described as the story of the whirlwind few days that forever change the life of Mary DiNunzio.  The novel begins as Mary, a young Phildelphia lawyer, answers a threatening phone call (apparently from someone who they have nicknamed Premenstrual Tom) meant for her boss Benedetta Rosato, the founder of the all woman law firm Rosato and Associates. Mary is working late on a pro bono case involving the apparently ancient history of the estate of Amadeo Brandolini, an Italian immigrant and local fisherman who died while interned in a Montana camp as a foreign national during World War II. The estate of Amadeo's son has approached Frank Cavuto, a solo practioner with limited resources, to sue the US Government for reparations. Frank (who was Mary's childhood baseball coach and remains a family friend) has enlisted Mary's help in his efforts to complete the research necessary to determine the basis of any claim for reparations that they might file. Eventually Frank tries to convince Mary that the case is hopeless and she should drop it, but her stubbornness causes her to decide that justice will not be achieved until she has examined the unanswered questions which still bother her.<br />Soon the stakes escalate! A lawyer is killed! Mary's office is trashed and crucial items concerning the case are stolen. She becomes increasingly convinced that a shadowy figure in an Escalade is trailing her as she continues her investigation. And these events all occur in the first few chapters of the story. Mary then enlists Judy Carrier, her best friend and an associate at Rosato, to help in her investigation; she soon decides that to get to the bottom of the case she will have to visit the former internment camp in Montana. Despite the fact that she has never been on an airplane before (one of the three personal secrets she shares with no one - you will have to read the book todiscover the other two) Mary resolutely sets out for Montana, where she unearths very troubling information which eventually places her in great personal danger. The plot twists are frequent, the conclusion is satisfying and the story is fast paced and absorbing as all the various threads are gradually tied together.<br />The story is told entirely in the first person with Mary as a very engaging and likeable narrator. Her inability to move beyond the recent death of her husband Mike, her close relationship with her father Mariano and mother Vita, and the background of her childhood as an Italian Catholic in South Philadelphia are all intriguing and essential elements of the story. Her insights are clever and often self deprecating, and her powers of observation are sharp and expressed in a way which provoke frequent smiles and occasional outright laughter as the story proceeds. (E.G. At one point she imagines Rosato and Associates morphing into the Supremes, with Bennie Rosato as Diana Ross. Later she becomes uptight when she realizes that she is flirting and thus might be dishonoring Mike's memory. But she realizes she hasn't tensed up as usual and concludes that it is because she is flirting outside, &quot;where it went into the air and didn't land anywhere&quot;).<br />In summary, while this is  a clever mystery and the legal elements are essential to the story (but not dominant), it can more appropriately be viewed as a story about Mary and the effect that this case has on her life. The premise is short on realism, but the details are wonderfully realistic and it is long on fun. It is a thriller laced throughout with real humor and character development. It has some serious weaknesses, including at times a very questionable timeline. (Any discussion of details is impossible without including some spoilers.) Usually the weaknesses in the story would have occasioned me rating it only four stars, but I felt that they were offset by its strengths and that the author defintely accomplished her goal of writing a real pageturner. Even the perhaps overly sentimental (and almost corny) nature of the conclusion was completely offset by the cleverness and appropriateness of the outcome of the legal proceedings due to Mary's hard work, persistence and luck. In conclusion. this is a feel good thriller; it will be enjoyed by those readers who can do without the extreme gore, violence, tension and profanity that so often are associated with the genre.<br />Disclaimer: Based  on my reviews of previous novels of this genre, I was furnished an ARC (Advance Review Copy) of this book by the publisher. This is the first book by the author that I have read, and I have never met either her or any representatives of the publisher. I made no representations or promises regarding any review that I might write. However, I have included this disclaimer in the interests of complete disclosure so that the reader may have all significant information concerning any facts that may be viewed as having biased my review.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-06-01
US	50223242	R3JZPK8IBHAR6A	0399151885	102390096	Double Play	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Riveting Story by a Master Storyteller	If you are a Robert Parker devotee and a true baseball fan, you should greatly enjoy this story that features Jackie Robinson, Joseph Burke, and a nine to fifteen year old Bobby (Parker). (I had never thought of the author as Bobby.)  But be warned, this is not a book about baseball, but rather a tale that uses baseball as a metaphor for life. Baseball and Robinson's experiences during his rookie year of 1947 are essential elements of the story, but the games themselves are incidental to the story and almost totally ignored. There is little mention of Robinson's play. (In fact, there is no mention of the 1947 World Series, which included some of the most memorable incidents in Series history.) So, IF YOU WANT A BASEBALL BOOK, THIS IS NOT FOR YOU! But if you want classic Robert Parker - tough guys in difficult situations, life in all its complexity, individuals who believe that they are honor bound to enforce the rules of life, and a conclusion which provides the possibility of redemption - then buy this book and you will also receive the bonus of the author's memories of his adolescence.<br />The story begins with Joseph Burke awakening in the Chelsea Naval Hospital after being almost killed during the Marine assault on Guadcanal during WWII. His wife briefly visits him; however, upon his discharge he learns that she has left him for another man and he is forced to gradually finish his rehabilitation friendless in their soulless apartment. In juxtaposition to Burke's plight we are introduced to Bobby (whose narration is in the first person), a nine year old Springfield, MA native who describes the very interesting twist of fate that has led him to become a Brooklyn Dodger fan at the time when impressionable young boys form those intense and all consuming attachments to sports teams which often last a lifetime. After the season is over, the Japanese bomb Pearl Harbor and what is the excruciating agony of war for Burke is the excitement and drama of a war half a worldaway for a young American boy. The author's reminiscences of the decade are wonderfully on point and will resonate with anyone alive during that period; the unreality and the excitement for Bobby are presented as counterpoint to the absorption of listening to Red Barber's unforgettable style while broadcasting the Dodger games . As the story proceeds, we occasionally get further glimpses into Bobby's life and his wonderful reactions to the issues of race which Jackie's elevation to the Dodgers have thrust upon the country.<br />Meanwhile, Burke has gradually recovered physically from his wounds, but he remains in an emotional dead zone where he feels safe because if he doesn't care then he can't get hurt and is not afraid of danger. He first becomes a fighter but unfortunately never masters the art of boxing. Next, he finds employment as a collector of gambling debts. He eventually ends up in NYC as a bodyguard for Lauren Roach, the self-destructive twenty-five year daughter of a shadowy but politically well connected figure. While successful in this effort, the associated violence leads Lauren's father to dismiss him. This firing and Burke's stoic acceptance of it leads Lauren to become so disconsolate that she reembarks upon her dissolute path . The resulting trajectory of her life will eventually intersect again with Burke's path in the final denouement of the story for both of them.<br />Now we come to the journey of personal discovery (and typical Parker morality play) that forms the core of the story, Branch Rickey learns of Burke's talents and fearlessness and hires him to guard Jackie Robinson during his rookie season. We live the racism that they both experience since they are essentially inseparable companions when Robinson is not on the field and the team is on the road. Burke gradually gains insights concerning Negro unease and mistreatment in white America; his actions and the difficult situations in which they find themselves (many tense, some violent, a few funny) eventually build a bond of trust between them. As the book builds towards its inevitable climactic conclusion for all concerned, we learn that there are depths to Burke which perhaps even he himself was unprepared to acknowledge. There is also a quintessentional Robert Parker side story involving an absolutely crucial relationship that Burke develops with an enforcer named Cash concerning their recognition of the code of conduct respected even by individuals who operate outside the law.<br />So if you want to read a baseball story about life, I strongly recommend this book. Burke will remind you of a Spenser from an earlier era, one shaped by war and dealing with still explicit and often intense racism. (Certainly the author knew his fans would see the similarity between the respect which Robinson and Burke develop for each other and the comradeship between Hawke and Spenser.) This story was so realistic that once I became absorbed in it I almost forgot that I was reading a novel and felt as if I was reliving history. <br /> A few concluding caveats are necessary. Be patient with the rapid changes of the narrative at the beginning of the story, they provide background information essential to the story. Second, look up the word pentimento in your dictionary in order to understand the role of several of the early interludes. Third, one of the box scores providing a further touch of historical reality to the story does not correspond to the brief description of the game described. Last, there are some coarse sexual descriptions, and a lot of violence and profanity. They are essential to the tone of the story and thus impossible to avoid, but make the book inappropriate for certain readers, especially children. In contrast, while there is a lot of violence, its description is summary in nature and not at all offensive.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-05-24
US	50223242	R3SA6RSCHNOSPM	0316155306	561654368	The Narrows	Books	5	2	5	N	N	(4.5) Harry Bosch Meets Rachel Walling on the Road to Zzyzx	In THE NARROWS Michael Connelly ties together the themes and characters from several of his previous novels while returning to the loose end of the unresolved fate of Robert Backus at the conclusion of THE POET. Those readers familiar with the world of Hieronymous (Harry) Bosch know that it is the centered in LA - &quot;a sunny place for shady people&quot;- and that Harry's character and Connelly's style have both evolved in reaction to the events which they have experienced. This book continues Connelly's recent adoption of the first person narrative by Harry Bosch interspersed with third person narrative for the other main characters in the book, primarily FBI profiler Rachel Walling and Backus, the former FBI agent who had for years used his knowledge of police procedures to escape detection as a serial killer. As is always the case in the author's work, this book is as much about the development of the characters and providing the reader with great depth of insight concerning the impact upon them of the events described as it about bringing the case to a conclusion.<br />Rachel Walling is recalled from her exile FBI posting in Rapid City, S.D. by a mysterious message sent to the FBI that unambiguously indicates that the serial killer identified as THE POET has reemerged. The nature of the communication also clearly indicates his desire that his former pupil and associate Rachel should be a member of the investigatory team despite her marginalization with the Bureau as a result the outcome of their previous encounters. Simultaneously, Harry Bosch is hired by Graciela McCaleb to investigate evidence she has inadvertently uncovered that the cause of the death of her husband Terry was not simply the failure of his transplanted heart that occurred during a charter aboard his fishing boat. (As a result of the book BLOODWORK being made into a movie both directed by and also starring Clint Eastwood, Terry McCaleb may be Connelly's most widely recognized character. In awonderful twist, as the story proceeds we learn that Clint Eastwood attended Terry's funeral.) The threads of the two cases become intertwined in a complex story of evil that involves several very intriguing elements. As might be expected, these include the tension betwen the FBI investigators with their agenda of controlling the impact upon the Bureau of any potentially devasting political blowback often coming into conflict with Rachel's and Harry's views of the best procedural steps to follow. Thus, unsurprisingly, an uneasy alliance is gradually forged between Rachel and Harry which concludes in their investigation nearly resulting in disastrous consequences. <br />There are several other elements woven into the plot, including Harry's old LAPD associate Kiz Rider convincing Harry to consider rejoining the Cold Case Unit of the Department under a policy actually adopted by Chief Bratton to encourage the return of recent retirees. Finally, while I won't reveal the role that it plays in the plot, for those readers unaware of the location of the road to Zzyzx, it is on US 15 halfway betwen LA and Las Vegas. (In a wonderful line that both captures the macabre poetry of Connelly's work and is reminiscent of a recent book, it is &quot;a CITY OF BONES at the end of the alphabet.&quot;) As readers of LOST LIGHT have undoubtedly surmised, the  necessity for Harry to travel to  Las Vegas in pursuit of the truth regarding Terry's death means that he can visit Maddie (his five year old daughter who only recently entered his life) and will undoubtedly continue to joust with his former wife (and former FBI agent) Eleanor Wish about the propriety of Maddie growing up in Las Vegas while her mother earns her living during the late night hours of a professional poker player.<br />Providing further meaningful details of this story would almost certainly involve spoilers which would only detract from the reader's enjoyment of the book. They are also unnecessary, since any fan of Connelly undoubtedly knows that no summary can do justice to the richness of the picture which he draws. (He has stated that his goal in his writing is &quot;to paint to all four corners of the canvas {of his story} and fill in the holes.) Like most detective stories, this one is largely about unraveling the past and understanding its impact on the present. But at the same time is does also present a glimpse of fleeting hope for the future despite the evil which Harry has to confront. <br />The reason why I subtracted a half point from my rating was my less than total satisfaction with two aspects of the conclusion. It was action packed and very clever, and certainly tied in completely with Harry's introductory comments that set the tone of the story. But it semed to me somewhat contrived and overly dramatic; more in keeping with the visual impact of a movie than the understated and nuanced nature of Harry's world. But this is still a wonderful story, both for long time Harry Bosch fans and first time readers who want a good psychological detective tale in the tradition of Philip Marlowe.<br />NOTE: If you also obtain a copy of the complimentary DVD - BLUE NEON LIGHT - subtitled MICHAEL CONNELLY'S LOS ANGELES, with commentary by Connelly and excerpts from his work narrated by William Petersen (CSI), be sure to take the time to view it. It is wonderfully produced and provides great background and insights about Connelly's development as a writer and the themes that tie together his novels.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-05-18
US	50223242	R10U2F5CYVJ79M	1566634954	134609828	Liberation's Children: Parents and Kids in a Postmodern Age	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	The Educational Importance of Cultural and Moral Traditions	This book contains a collection of eleven essays written by Kay Hymowitz and which originally appeared in CITY JOURNAL between 1995 and 2002. The subtitle captures the essence of the common subject matter thread which provides the link between them, they are about the relationship of PARENTS AND KIDS IN A POSTMODERN AGE. The essays in the book are arranged to form a sequential analysis of her topic following the age of children from their early experiences in day-care through graduation from college (essay number nine is titled J. CREW U.) and subsequently into a career; they conclude with an examination of the frequent rejection of the goals of radical feminism by many young women today. However, the dates of original publication indicate a much less direct progression of the author's thought process and commentary, they appear to be a combination of responses to her own experiences and research, reactions to the topic du jour and pieces specifically complementing other commentary from the Manhattan Institute (the publishers of City Journal)<br />My experience is that pieces in collections of this nature are often uneven in quality, but these are uniformly very articulate and well reasoned commentaries by an extremely thoughtful author with a very definite point of view. That point of view can be summarized as a belief that our culture has largely lost its moral moorings, and that we have no intellectual and spiritual base of agreed upon beliefs with which to educate our children. She examines the basis of the elevation of moral relativism and our unwillingness to articulate a framework of absolute values, and concludes that it is due to the several factors but places much of the blame upon the destructive impact caused by the embrace of postmodernism by large segments of the intellectual elite and media opinion leaders (as exemplified by the adoption of deconstructionist philosophy and methodologies in the curriculums of many leading academic institutions). This has both combined with and reinforced the pursuit of goals predominantly measured in material terms, and has often led to extremely counterproductive results even with the best of intentions. (In this regard her criticisms of day care for the wealthy and Sesame Street are fascinating.) <br />There is a lot in these critiques that is about as far removed from political correctness as possible, and yet at the same time Hymowitz has probably managed to include some comment in the book which will probably distress even her most ardent supporters. I certainly agreed with the overwhelming majority of her points and enjoyed her style immensely, but on occasion felt her commentary slightly offpoint or her analysis somewhat overbroad (e.g. the chapter on ecstatic capitalism). Regardless of your beliefs regarding our cultural childrearing practices, there is clearly reason to be concerned about the education (in the broadest sense) of our youngsters today. While the Columbine tragedy clearly caught the attention of the nation, the problem is not violence per se but what the prevalence of such violence indicates about the frequent alienation exhibited by the youth of today. The debates about the almost certain overprescription of Ritalin, the abysmal performance of many segments of the population on standardized tests, and the elevation of the goals of diversity and multiculturalism have led to the perverse equation of the freedom which we cherish with the lack of necessity for any internal moral compass. Somehow we as a society have not accepted the fact that the greater the freedom in a society, the greater is the need for a firm personal internalization of the agreed upon moral precepts and shared cultural values which are necessary for the society to effectively function.<br />I highly recommend this book for everyone interested in accumulating background intellectual ammunition in order to more effectively participate in the current debate about society's educational and childrearing practices. After all, there is nothing more important to maintaining the opportunity, freedom and prosperity which we currently enjoy.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-05-11
US	50223242	R361281V4VXCLB	0670031909	409938290	Lost in a Good Book: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Thursday Next Learns the Art of Bookjumping	For those individuals who are not familiar with Jasper FForde's intriguing and delightful heroine Thusday Next, this review can easily be summarized with the very strong advice to read the series in order and start with THE EYRE AFFAIR (4/14/2004 review). That is a wonderful book in its own right, and introduces you to both Thursday and the alternate universe which she inhabits in much greater detail than is provided in this book. While this book has sufficient background to be an enjoyable read on a standlone basis, a reader who starts with this volume would lack a great deal of very important context; since the first book is a wonderful read on its own and in many ways is a much more traditionally structured novel than this sequel, there is no reason not to read it before getting LOST IN A GOOD BOOK. If EYRE AFFAIR does not appeal to you, there is no reason to read this book, because its plot is even more unusual and convoluted.<br />As this story begins, Thursday has become a celebrity based on her stuggle with Archeron Hades and the rebookment of Jane Eyre. She would like time to recuperate, spend time with her new husband Landen and pet Dodo Pickwick (plock plock), and return to the relative obscurity of her posting in Swindon as an SO-27 Literatec. However, Landen soon disappears; his history and their marriage apparently somehow eradicated by the ever dangerous Goliath Corporation, who are intent on forcing Thursday to cooperate in the rescue of their operative Jack Schitt (who was stranded in a copy of THE RAVEN at the conclusion of Thursday's previous adventure). While investigating the mysterious discovery of CARDENIO, a previously unknown but apparently authentic Shakespeare play, a bizarre sequence of coincidences eventually convinces Thursday that she no choice but to become a PRO (Prose Resource Operative) if she is to have any chance of resurrecting Landen and incidentally also deflecting the apparent end of civilization. Thus she arrives in the greatlibrary which houses the WELL OF LOST PLOTS (the third book in the series), meets The Chesire Cat (who annoyingly keeps disappearing) and is apprenticed to Miss Havisham, a woman with incredibly modern tastes for a character from Dicken's GREAT EXPECTATIONS. And the fun and adventure proceeds in Fforde's characteristically unique fashion.<br />This book has all the characteristics which make this series so enjoyable - clever wordplay in abundance, wonderful literary allusions, and the allure of pure escapist fantasy in which the reader can completely lose himself or herself. Not only is this an alternate  universe, but we have another level of (un)reality incorporated through the introduction of the world of Jurisfiction, with its whole new methodology, vocabulary and methods of communication. Time warps are possible; the role of the Chronoguards (including Thursday's renegade father) is crucial to this story.  The reader gets to learn more about many of the characters in the first book, and in addition meet some really unique individuals in the course of this adventure. You will probably be able to guess the fate of SO-5 operatives Phodder and Kannon, and might not even be surprised to learn that their replacements were Walken and Dedmen. But if you are curious about the meaning of the word xplkqulkiccasia, want to learn about the role of Neanderthals in1985 England, and desire to meet the aptly named PR operative Coredelia Flakk, you'll definitely have to read this book. <br />I have tried to furnish a flavor of this story in this review, because a summary is really impossible and a detailed description would both include many spoilers and at the same time not do justice to the author's achievement. One further note, in addition to the clever use of literary excerpts at the beginning of each chapter, a new device is employed through the occasional use of footnotes for a very interesting purpose. And perhaps the most amazing single episode in the book involves a literally Kafkaesque TRIAL in which Thursday participates. My only caution would be that this book is clearly intended to serve as a transition novel, or the bridge which provides the direction necessary to transform the original story into a fullblown series featuring Thursday's universe. Thus, while I loved it and found it extremely clever and a true FUN READ, it is much more a series of interrelated incidents (which lead to a very satisfying conclusion) than the sort of straightforward plot found in THE EYRE AFFAIR.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-05-10
US	50223242	R3C5DWW0NFFCHM	074320607X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time	Books	4	3	5	N	N	(4+) Whooo is the Owl?	NOTE: While this review contains detailed information about this story, none of it is in the nature of a spoiler. In fact, more details have been revealed on the bookjacket and in other reviews. My purpose is to provide the reader with the flavor and nature of the story; almost all the things I discuss are general in nature and occur very early in the book.<br />This murder mystery begins with Alison, the owner of one of the country's largest talent agencies, drowning in her own pool in a manner that causes the police to rule the death an accident. However, the reader knows that in truth she has been murdered by an unidentified figure intent on avenging some past wrong. We then learn that Alison had been about to attend her twentieth class reunion at Stonecroft Academy in Cornwall-On-Hudson, N.Y., but instead will be buried in her hometown cemetery and that a memorial service for her will be held during the reunion. Before the reunion can begin, the scene shifts to that small town where local detective and widower Sam Deegan is reviewing the case file regarding the still unsolved brutal killing of local teenager Karen Sommers twenty years ago before he pays his annual visit to Karen's widowed mother Alice on the anniversary of Karen's death.<br />Next we meet Jean Sheridan, who after leaving Stonecroft graduated from Bryn Mawr, received her Ph.D. from Princeton and has gained public recognition through the recent publication of a widely acclaimed historical study. Despite being one of the successful graduates that Stonecroft has chosen to honor during the reunion, Jean has been very reluctant to return to a town which we learn holds very bittersweet memories for her. However, she feels compelled to attend when she is notified that the memorial servive for her girlhood friend Alison will be held during the reunion. We soon learn that Jean's secret boyfriend, a cadet at the adjacent West Point Military Academy, died in a tragic accident just before her graduation andthat someone has recently uncovered the secret of their relationship and is using this information to psychologically torture Jean. When Jean arrives on campus the final elements of the plot fall into place when Jake Perkins, a reporter from the campus newspaper attempts to interview her concerning the apparent &quot;coincidence&quot; that Alison was the fourth classmate of a group of six girls who regularly ate lunch together to die over the past twenty years in very tragic but seemingly unrelated  accidents. Only Jean and Laura Wilcox, a well known actress who we soon meet when she arrives for the reunion, remain alive.<br />Now that the stage has been set, we meet Jack Emerson, their only classmate who has chosen to remain in their hometown and who has become a very successful real estate developer. Because of his local presence, Jack has agreed to serve as reunion chairman and greets the other honorees as they arrive. First is Carter Stewart, a well known writer of exceedingly dark plays. Next is Mark Fleischman, a therapist specializing in adolescent psychiatry who has become a popular media talk show host. Then Gordon Amory, the incredibly wealthy part owner of several media properties, arrives; he is followed by Robby Brent, a caustic comedian whose empathy and personal warmth are likened to that of Don Rickles. <br />As the story proceeds, Sam Deegan is called upon to investigate some apparently random and unrelated murders that occur in the vicinity. Then Laura Wilcox vanishes and soon after one of the other honorees disappears. What the reader knows is that this is all the work of THE OWL, the mysterious personality buried deep within one of the guests who occasionally emerges to select his prey and then utilize his sharp talons to avenge the humiliations visited upon him as an insecure teenager over twenty years ago. (And of course his mantra is NIGHTTIME IS MY TIME.) So this story is not only a traditional whodunit, but also a &quot;race against time&quot; thriller since the killer's task is unfinished.<br />The strong points of the story are that it has a very interesting plot and it is a real page turner that can easily be read  during a rainy day or on a long flight. And the author does a fabulous job of misdirection with regard to the identity of THE OWL. Each of the male attendees seems to have sufficient motivation so that any of them could be the psychotic killer. The plot is interesting, but the number of suspects and their complex relationship required a paper and notepad for me to keep them all straight. <br />There are two negatives which kept me from a five star rating. First, there is almost no character development; NIGHTTIME is about keeping the reader engaged through non-stop action rather than developing empathy with the individuals involved. Second, since this book is written so that the reader has a broader overview of events than any of the individual characters, the outcome of several of the ancillary storylines will be obvious to most readers before Jean and Sam fit all the pieces of the puzzle together and the book reaches its conclusion. Despite these criticisms, I enjoyed the pace of the action, the complexity of the plot, and the fact the the author tied up all the loose ends in an almost &quot;happily ever after&quot; conclusion for the participants fortunate enough to remain alive.<br />As an addendum, if you enjoy interesting murder mysteries with complex plots but prefer substantial character development so that the participants seem three dimensional, I highly recommend THE LAST GOODBYE by Reed Arvin (review 2/17/2004). This is probably the best murder mystery I have read this year, and is well researched and wonderfully informative as well.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-25
US	50223242	R3NE6MG4J7QXF2	0525947752	196048228	The Second Chair	Books	5	5	6	N	N	(4 1/2) An Intriguing Legal Thriller and Character Study	THE SECOND CHAIR is an excellent addition to the series of legal thrillers by John Lescroart featuring San Francisco lawyer Dismas Hardy and his good friend Abe Glitsky, recently promoted to Deputy Chief of the Investigations Bureau. While the novel is adequate as a standalone story, I don't believe that I would have rated it as highly without the detailed background knowledge of Abe's and Diz's experiences that formed the basis of Lescroart's previous book, THE FIRST LAW ( 2/9/2003 review), which I strongly suggest be read prior to this book. (Since the events in THE FIRST LAW in some ways represented a crucial divide in the lives of all participants, perhaps the numbers incorporated into these titles indicate the author's intention to make it easy for new readers  to understand the order of the subsequent books in the series. If so, his fans will be glad to see that he has left himself unlimited possibilities for additional sequels whereas the author Sue Grafton is already more than halfway through the alphabet.)<br />In contrast with the two most recent novels somewhat deviating from the typical format of this series, this book much more closely resembles the earlier stories. FIRST LAW had been about the failure of the justice system and the emotional and physical damage that the episode described caused to everyone in Abe's and Diz's circles of friends and families. Prior to that THE OATH (9/11/2002 review) had basically been a story that cast Diz in the role of a detective with very little courtroom action and with Abe having only a very minor role. This story combines what initially seem to be unrelated murder investigations by Abe and Diz with legal maneuvering, courtroom drama, and more than the usual quota of psychological stress and character development. While supposedly recovered from the psychological trauma which he recently endured and now managing partner of a successful law firm, in reality the deep scars which Hardy received are far from healed. Hehas essentially switched from being a litigator  defending the innocent to the highly lucrative legal business of negotiating deals for the guilty. And Glitsky has become enmeshed in the political pressures brought on by a recent wave of violence.<br />The parents of Andrew Bartlett, a seventeen-year-old who Hardy's young associate Amy Wu has previously represented for a minor offense, contact her when he is arrested for the double murder of his girlfriend Laura Wright and his well loved high school drama teacher Michael Mooney. Amy ( who is introduced in a manner which suggests that she will be a new addition to the continuing cast of this series) believes the evidence against Andrew to be overwhelming and thus arranges a deal with the DA to accept a plea bargain in return for Andrew being sentenced as a juvenile offender rather than being tried as an adult. When the deal falls apart and Amy incurs the wrath of both the DA and the judge assigned to the case,  Hardy concludes that it is necessary for him to sit as THE SECOND CHAIR with Wu (psychologically numb from the recent death of her father) and help in the preparation of Andrew's case for trial. As further apparently random murders occur and increasingly terrorize the city, a tenuous link finally appears between Glitsky's investigations and Andrew's case. The complex plot is ingenious and the conclusion satisfying. And fans of the series will be glad to see the inclusion of a strong legal element as an integral part of this story.<br />I downgraded my rating from a full five stars for three reasons. First, the book certainly does not deserve five stars on a standalone basis, yet to make the background understandable to new readers it dwells on the events in the previous book in excruciating detail for readers already familiar with that background. Second, I thought that although Amy's self-destructive behavior and preoccupation with her own problems was a totally integral element of the plot, it was carried to such an extreme level that it made her behavior even more frustrating than was necessary. Third, in a few cases the perspective of the narrative made certain elements of the case clear to the reader well before it was obvious to the participants, which somewhat lessened the suspense.<br />On a final note, this book also includes a strong negative perspective regarding the current childrearing practices and self-centeredness of many professional and upwardly mobile parents. In addition to the lack of communication between Andrew and his parents, we are introduced to two wonderful minor actors in this drama. First is Jeri (Honey) Croft, an actress in the play which starred Andrew and Laura, and whose wisdom and sensitivity contrast fiercely with her punk look and outward demeanor of disdain, Second is Catherine Bass, who is an attorney suffering from CDD (the well known but often misdiagnosed affliction Chocolate Deficit Disorder) but more importantly for this story is Mr. Mooney's former wife who specializes in areas which make her very knowledgeable regarding the troubled lives of psychologically estranged teenagers. So, if you enjoy literary series which employ plots with a lot of interwoven threads and that take the time to leisurely provide the necessary details for continuing character development, THE SECOND CHAIR is a very worthwhile addition to the Diz and Abe show. <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-23
US	50223242	R1JIPMO67C34WO	0394475623	48833111	The Happy Valley	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	(4 1/2) Weird and Wonderful with Gorgeous Illustrations	The book jacket description is as follows - \\"the HAPPY VALLEY is a story for young people, written by Dr. Eric Berne, author of GAMES PEOPLE PLAY. The characters in the story include a mixed-up python, an obedient rabbit, a wise little man, a friendly sheep, a dutiful princess, an explorer, a billy goat, a kind prince, and three robbers. Even though there are thieves there and someone wants to eat somebody else and someone needs someone else's skin, the valley is a place where everyone is polite and happy and does what he likes best and, most important of all, still manages to satisfy his own conscience.\\" While this is the first \\"unpsychiatric\\" book that Dr. Berne has written after several works complementary to GAMES PEOPLE PLAY, \\"he says he too would like to be polite and happy and satisfy his conscience and still do what he likes best\\".<br />I was alerted to the existence of this wonderful exposition regarding the possibilities for finding ingenious solutions to the dilemmas which we frequently confront by an essay entitled THE LONELIEST BOOK I EVER READ in a collection entitled REMARKABLE READS (edited by J. Peder Zane - review 4/7/04). HAPPY VALLEY was published in 1968, after Dr. Berne became a well recognized writer on the subject of the complexity and ambiguity of interpersonal relationships; in fact his title became a common household phrase. This book tells the story of Shardlu, a python who \\"was not very handsome to look at, and not very clever. In fact, he was a little mixed up. The only way he could earn a living was by being kind to people on Tuesday night and Friday morning. He was listed on the payroll as Friend & Companion.\\" One day while taking a nap on a hilltop, he became frightened by a dream and as was his wont, he rolled up into a ball and thus rolled down the hill and ended in a strange place identified by a sign as the valley of Lamador. The sign announced that \\"everyone will see something different here. You will see one thing and your father and mother and dog will see something else... But the main thing you will see is what happens next.\\" The story is about wordplay (one of the robbers is named Tobedwego), and surprises, and relationships and the insights gained from seeing things \\"backwards and inside out\\".<br />So this is for young people who can be amused by fantasy, but also for adults who recognize the complex truth so often wonderfully illustrated by seeming simple children's stories. The description in the essay which I read captured the essence of it impact with the phrase \\"thrilling weird\\". In addition, the illustrations by Sylvie Selig add immeasurably to the feeling of weirdness and wonder engendered by the book; they are intensely colorful, slightly whimsical and range from being exact representations of the storyline to almost background illustrations conveying a generic impression of the ambiance of HAPPY VALLEY and its inhabitants. (Several of the animals portrayed are never mentioned in the text.) <br />While I would not claim that this book rises to the status of a somehow overlooked children's classic, I was certainly glad that my reading alerted me to the enjoyment to be discovered between its covers. Furthermore, it reminded me of how much pleasure we forgo (and how many potential insights our children lose) if our lives are too busy to occasionally take time to simply peruse a random selection of the available children's literature. After all, I would guess that few writers provide so much insight and pleasure relative to the time necessary to read  their work as the best authors of children's and young people's books; Maurice Sendak and Shel Silverstein will always remain two of my favorite author/illustrators. So, I was extremely glad that I found this book, and that Jonathan Lethem (the essay writer) chose to share his love of it with other readers, despite the fact that he may well have destroyed its status as the \\"secret garden\\" to which seemingly he alone had the key.<br/>Tucker Andersen	2004-04-23
US	50223242	R13SASVZG3MW2Y	0345452593	660919237	Therapy	Books	5	12	15	N	N	(4 1/2)  Multiple Murders for Alex and Milo to Untangle	Clinical psychologist and LAPD consultant Alex Delaware and his friend Detective Milo Sturgis are having dinner at a restaurant in Beverly Glen when by happenstance the wail of police sirens alerts them to a nearby double homicide. When they arrive at the scene, the victims are a suggestively undressed young man and woman sitting in a red Mustang convertible parked in a secluded driveway; they have both been shot in the head at close range and in addition the woman has been impaled on an iron stake. The male victim's driver's license identifies him as Gavin Quick, but there is no identification for his blond companion. When Alex and Milo arrive at Gavin's home to notify his family of his murder, his mother Sheila is home alone; his father Jerry is a scrap metals dealer who is on a business trip and his older sister Kelly is a first year law student at Boston University. After Sheila overcomes her shock and grief, she manages to briefly summarize for them the recent events in Gavin's life, which revolve around the brain injuries which he received as a passenger in a car during an accident in which two of his friends were killed. The resultant personality changes and mental impairment had led Gavin to drop out of college and receive both occupational and psychological counseling. Sheila incorrectly assumes that the blond with Gavin was Kayla Bartell, a former girlfriend from an upscale Beverly Hills neighborhood whose misidentification provides some difficult moments for Alex and Milo. <br />In some respects, this is a straightforward police procedural, but there are so many interwoven threads and layers that gradually reveal themselves that pursuing the case is more like assembling a complex jigsaw puzzle without a picture to guide them than simply peeling back the proverbial layers of an onion. Their inability to establish the identity of the second victim until very late in the investigation is not only troubling, but leaves the motivation behind the murders more problematical. Furthermore, Alex is troubled when he discovers that Gavin's therapist was Mary Lou Koppel, a media savvy psychologist well known through her talk radio program and someone with whom he had a previous disturbing professional experience. His and Milo's antennae figuatively quiver when they discover that Flora Newsome, another patient of Mary Lou's, had been violently murdered approximately one year ago in a crime with some superficial similarities to the recent homicides. They are further intrigued by the inconsistencies which gradually develop in the stories of the various individuals involved. Jerry, Gavin's father; Eileen Paxton, Sheila's sister and Gavin's aunt; Mary Lou; her associate and Gavin's original therapist, Franco Gull; Gavin's neurologist Dr. Singh and Ray Nichols, Flora's ex, not only seem to have quite divergent views of the events preceding the deaths of Gavin and Flora but also appear to be less than wholly truthful. <br />As you might imagine, when Mary Lou Koppel is found murdered in her own home, the third female victim to be both shot and brutally stabbed, Alex and MIlo decide to concentrate on the connections between the victims.  One such interesting character is Sonny Koppel, Mary Lou's former husband and office landlord, who has made a fortune in the real estate business but keeps such a low profile and has such total disregard for material possessions (or &quot;stuff&quot; as he labels it), that he lives unrecognized in one of his own low rent apartment buildings. (Is it simply coincidence that he is also Jerry Quick's office landlord as well?)<br />In the context of the investigation there are opportunities to enlighten the reader of the series regarding the progress of Alex's recent relationship with Allison Gwynn. And the French bulldog Spike briefly reappears when Alex is pressed into service as an emergency dogsitter for his ex, Robin. Some fascinating insights about Milo's very private relationship with his personal partner Rick are also cleverly introduced . As the story meanders, it is frequently not clear what areas of the investigation will be productive and which might be the author's intentional deadends of misdirection. But there is a lot of interesting detail about areas as diverse as the psychological treatment of patients with head injuries (Gavin felt like an android whose &quot;wiring had been changed&quot;), the Holocaust, patient billing scams based on government reimbursement criteria, and even the genocide which occurred in Rwanda. There is humor and philosophy galore, and some great phraseology. My favorite was the term &quot;misery pimp&quot; to describe the seemingly caring professional liberals who manage to profit from the misfortunes of others, often with the help of such supposedly high minded organizations as the U.N.<br />Since I am not a regular reader of the Alex Delaware series, I cannot compare this to the author's other work. However, I highly recommend this book as a standalone police procedural/psychological detective story with many complexities that are are cleverly woven into a very involved but nevertheless highly satisfactory conclusion. If you want a detective series with psychological overtones but which features more straightforward stories which are faster reads, then I suggest that you instead turn to the series featuring profiler Alex Cross by James Patterson. Speed readers should look elsewhere; the enjoyment of this book comes from the details of the complex plot and character development, the use of language, and the author's professional knowledge of psychology and his insights and commentary regarding human nature.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-20
US	50223242	R2V5PYVLKO3H1G	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	FUN !!  A Weird and Wonderful Alternate Universe	Surreal ! This is a literary adventure in a parallel universe; Great Britain in 1985, the year perhaps chose to leave no doubt that this is science fiction of the \\"almost might have been\\" variety rather than the speculative type which fantasizes about \\"one of many possible futures\\" . The Crimean war still has Russia and England facing off as adversaries after 130 years, air travel is by \\"gas bag\\", the border between England and the People's Republic of Wales is sealed, and occasional rents in the space time continuum are repaired by the Chronoguards (SO-12). (In fact, Tuesday's father is a renegade member of the Office for Special Temporal Stability, but in fact perhaps I need his help since I seem to have gotten ahead of myself.) The Special Operations (SO) network has been formed to handle specialized and unusual police matters, with the thirty departments being denoted by a number in reverse order to their secrecy and hierarchal rank. When we are introduced to Thursday Next (the enjoyable heroine of this tale), she is a Literatec, that is, an SO-27, an operative in the Literary Detective Division.  However, she is about to be temporarily assigned to SO-5, a department so secret that its name cannot be revealed but is attempting to trace the mysterious disappearance of the original manuscript of MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT.<br />So, if you are willing to suspend belief and return to the days of your youth, when the arch villains did battle against the white hats, vampires existed, and reading stories transported you into the worlds of their protagonists, then join Thursday and discover what's Next. This is about clever wordplay and literary allusions, about politics and religion, but primarily about having fun in a wonderful adventure with many interesting twists and turns. You will even be privy to an ingenious explanation of who really was responsible for Shakespeare's plays (a continual question for SO-27 operatives to ponder), as well as experience an hilarious production of RICHARD III.  The more knowledge of literature you have, the more you will appreciate the truly remarkable job the author has done of weaving such illusions into the text (e.g., remember that James Boswell wrote the LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHSON), but even without much specific knowledge the author's Clif Notes are provided so that you can appreciate how Thursday's adventures changed the lives of Edward Rochester and Jane Eyre.<br />When I read the description of the series of which this book is the initial entry, I was not sure that the author would be able to keep my attention while enabling me to engage in the necessary suspension of belief, but he has created a storytelling methodology that fully engaged me. The brief introductory paragraph at the beginning of each chapter (excerpted from various narrative accounts concerning the proceedings), serve to very effectively both convey crucial background information and provide an air of authenticity. I strongly recommend that you read this book when you want to meet such interesting characters as Ms. Paige Turner and the almost immortalized fiend, Felix Tabularasa. The creativeness of Fforde's imagination rivals that of the extraordinary scifi writer Philip K. Dick, except that this is world of exciting adventures and happy endings (at least before the next assignment beckons to Thursday), rather than the stark and often depressing possibilities that Dick's imagination envisioned. I was also impressed with the ability of Fforde to subsequently answer questions which had been raised by certain elements of the narrative and to cleverly tie up several loose ends or unexplained happenings; of course, you have to accept the fantasy of the alternative universe which he creates, but there is internal consistency within the rules of that world.<br />I have chosen not to reveal too many details of the plot, both in order not to spoil it and also because a brief review could not do it justice. But I believe that you will enjoyentering the world of Thursday Next, and will soon find yourself LOST IN A GOOD BOOK (the sequel). And you will also probably fantasize about which novels you would like to enter and perhaps improve the plot, meet the characters, or experience the action if only you had the ability to engage in book jumping. But you'll have to read THE EYRE AFFAIR to learn how to accomplish that feat, I won't tell.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-14
US	50223242	R1OFGXN3QN8FX9	0452281148	605952043	Free Drinks for Ladies with Nuts	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	(4-) The Misuse and Abuse of the English Language	This is a delightful collection of what the author terms \\"mangled English\\"; it includes malapropisms, inappropriate although sometimes technically correct translations, misspellings, and instances that simply reflect a lack of thought or care by the individual involved. Most of the items included in the book are very brief, they often consist of only a few words (e.g. menus items that were translated in a humorous fashion) or a single phrase. Very few of the selections are as lengthy as a complete paragraph. Thus, the book can be sampled and skimmed in bite size morsels, and it is a wonderful item to be placed in locations where people pick it up, get a good laugh by reading a few selections and then return to it at their convenience (e.g waiting rooms in offices, subway briefcases, coffee tables, and magazine buckets in bathrooms).<br />The author has segmented the items into twelve categories; the majority involve inappropriate translations in some context, such as the suggestion at a Bangkok dry cleaner to \\"Drop your trousers here for best results\\" or the Swedish ad that \\"Nothing sucks like an Electrolux\\". However, there are also some sections that involve American misuse of our own native language, such as the sign in a hospital maternity ward that advised \\"no children allowed\\", or the warning in a Pennsylvania cemetery that \\"persons are prohibited from picking flowers from any but their own graves\\". One of my favorites was the Ohio shop that proudly advertised \\"We buy junk and sell antiques\\".<br />Of course, the quality of the entries are uneven, as is inevitable in a collection of this type, Some are clever and will make you laugh out loud, some are quite cute and will occasion a smile, some involve words that are inappropriate and quite embarrassing in the context in which they are used, and a few seem to not deserve being included. But probably each reader's judgment will differ with regard to the level of humor of the individual items included in this collection. This is also a great book for sharing with others. I was reading one section while watching TV with my wife, and found myself frequently reading the more enjoyable items out loud to her. And when I was reading it alone, I'd on occasion feel compelled to note the items that I wanted to share with others in the future. While the pieces are too long to include in this review, my favorite section is definitely \\"Ads with Impact\\", written to appeal English speaking customers by people who often have just enough knowledge of our language to mangle the impression that they are trying to create.<br />So while this is not a great piece of literature, nor a work of wonderful insights, and certainly not filled with action, adventure and romance, Jane O'Boyle has managed to assemble an enjoyable collection of fractured English signs, movie marquees, advertisements, product names and other miscellaneous items that certainly approaches a four star level of enjoyment.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-07
US	50223242	R2UPW8B621AKNB	0393325407	274043501	Remarkable Reads: 34 Writers and Their Adventures in Reading	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	An Interesting Concept Marvelously Executed	J. Peder Zane, the book review editor of the RALEIGH (N.C.) NEWS AND OBSERVER thought it would be interesting to invite several authors (who are also often college professors) to write essays for the newspaper which discussed their favorite books and in so doing capture for the newspaper's subscribers the true adventure of reading. However, these were not intended to be a collection of \\"highfalutin platitudes\\" about the power of literature or laundry lists of worthwhile reads. Rather they were to be specific and detailed, a blend of personal experience and literary criticism/analysis. The request of each writer was very specific, \\"pick a single book and a single adjective to describe their encounter with it\\". And the results exceeded their expectations (and mine as well), which is why the collection has now been published in book form.<br />While this collection is certainly of uneven quality, it is one of the few that I have ever read where the range is from simply interesting to truly outstanding. The selections range in length from five to eight pages, so each is easily able to be completed in one sitting; sometimes I found myself wanting to contemplate one before I moved on to the next piece, while at other times I couldn't contain my excitement and immediately wanted to proceed to the experience chronicled by the next author. Zane chose to arrange them in chronological order, but not when they were written or read but rather approximately in the order of the age of the reader when it was first read. (Indeed several have been reread multiple times; one of the interesting elements of some of the essays is how the authors' reactions to these books changed over time.) While I was familiar with several of the books and a few of the writers included in this collection, the majority were new to me and I now have numerous additional items on my \\"to read\\" list. <br />In some instances the essay is primarily about the book, in a few the book is placed in the context of the body of the author's work, but the majority of the pieces involve the journey (sometimes intensely personal) which the book occasioned for the reader. While this was often just the enchantment which we all feel when confronted by the power of great literature, it was on one occasion the impetus for a twenty five hundred mile actual journey to the scene where the action in the book occurred. In all cases, these essays reveal some aspect of the power of literature and how it can influence our lives.<br />In order to provide some specificity to this review, I will provide a few examples which were especially meaningful/poignant/interesting to me or in some instances where I was moved by willingness of these authors to reveal the depth of their emotional reactions to the books which they had chosen. First, Jonathan Lethem's choice of THE HAPPY VALLEY for \\"loneliest book\\", primarily because I had never considered what would make a book lonely and was intrigued both by his definitional approach and the book itself (which I have subsequently purchased and read, so it is not so lonely any more). Second, I was totally fascinated by the explication by Joan Barfoot of her choice of THE GOLDEN NOTEBOOK by Doris Lessing as the \\"maddest book\\" she's ever read. Third, Clyde Edgerton's description of the most \\"technically elegant\\" (he cheated, two words) he'd ever read and how it had probably saved his life interested me in a topic that I had no idea could hold my attention (STICK AND RUDDER: AN EXPLANATION OF THE ART OF FLYING). Last, Doris Betts explanation of why she completed AMERICAN PSYCHO despite it being the most \\"unpleasant\\" book she'd ever read both fascinated me and reinforced my longstanding decision that it was a book whose covers I would never open. As an aside, I was also appreciative of the fact that H.W. Brands finally explained to me why THE EDUCATION OF HENRY ADAMS was \\"incomprehensible\\" to me when it was assigned reading during my teenage years but why I mightactually enjoy it today.<br />So, I highly recommend this collection. It is by writers who have done a wonderful job of imparting their insights to us, both on a personal level and as practitioners of their craft. You will undoubtedly discover a few works which you will want to read for yourself; there will probably be others which despite your interest in the essay, the books are so alien to your interests as a reader (or so depressing) that you will want to avoid them at all costs. Finally, in all probability there are at least a few of these essay writers with whose works you were previously unfamiliar but that you will now be drawn to read; among the genres represented by these writers are historical novels (including COLD MOUNTAIN), character driven stories, science and ecology, poetry, and children's stories and fantasy. This is collection is truly  an illustration of the reasons for our fascination with and enjoyment of good books, and the lasting impact which they can have upon our lives.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-07
US	50223242	R2XOPYZ3VDOHED	0446612588	851224138	Mortal Allies	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Saved from a Death Sentence by Attila and the Easter Bunny	This is an action-packed legal/military/political thriller; it is not primarily a courtroom drama but rather a story told from the viewpoint of Major Sean Drummond, a JAG officer whose Bermuda vacation is interrupted when the Army summons him to Seoul and charges him with the unenviable task of defending Captain Thomas Whitehall against multiple charges including homosexual rape and murder. Not only is the evidence supporting the charges against Whitehall overwhelming, but Drummond's problems are greatly increased by two additional factors. First, the murdered individual was a South Korean soldier attached a US army base in Korea; thus a firestorm of protest has erupted potentially endangering the United States- South Korean alliance and making the trial a high profile media event. Second, the lead civilian counsel for the accused is Katherine Carlson, a classmate at Georgetown law whose disagreements with Drummond grew so heated that the dean eventually disallowed all personal contact between the two of them. Drummond summarizes the situation, \\"think about what kind of philosophical discussion the Easter Bunny and Attila the Hun might have if they sat down to compare lifestyles\\". Thus, he is stuck with the sobriquet Attila, while she is invariably referenced as Moonbeam in return. Since the Army has fast tracked the proceedings, the defense team is forced to quickly develop a strategy that has some chance of explaining the evidence against Whitehall, who insists on his innocence but provides no helpful insights upon which they can build their case. <br />What makes the story so riveting is the complexity of the plot and the time the author takes to sketch out more character development and interplay than most books of this genre. Sean Drummond is a wonderful hero, part regular Army and part counterculture with his streak of irreverence and humor that infuses Haig's books. In addition, I found the background information concerning Korea and our alliance very educational; my assumption that it was factually correct added to my enjoyment of the book. Most importantly, this book is used as the platform for an interesting and quite extensive discussion of societal attitudes towards gays and lesbians (and the differences between our culture and that of Korea) and implicitly questions the appropriateness of the military's \\"don't ask, don't tell policy\\". The implications of the case and his reaction to Whitehall combined with his interaction with Moonbeam led to an interesting evolution in Attila's views; yet this aspect  was simply part of the fabric of the story, not in any way either extraneous or distracting. This summary only scratches the surface of the story, which includes more murders, potential espionage, involvement of the CIA and other undercover operatives, and lots of trademark Drummond humor tinged with irony and cynicism. And  I haven't even mentioned yet that the murdered South Korean was the son of the country's Defense Minister; Korean police procedures, rules of evidence, and the criminal justice system and prisons are significantly less favorable to defendants than those of the US and the crime was committed off military property. While I cannot reveal any details of several plot elements without providing significant spoilers, I want to attest that the author managed to keep me guessing, and not always correctly. I especially enjoyed one key aspect of the conclusion, which both managed to surprise me and also succesfully pull together several elements of the storyline.<br />This is the fourth book by the author which I have read that features Sean Drummond as the protagonist, but it is the second sequentially which he wrote. The series features a central cast of characters, including Sergeant Imelda Pepperfeld as Drummond's invaluable assistant and General Clapper as his boss, but most of the individuals are unique to the story and it is a great standalone read. However, if you plan to read all the books I wouldread them in the proper sequence, both because there are references to Drummond's previous exploits and because the character development is quite interesting. The first book is SECRET SANCTION (3 1/2 star review 7/30/03), which  I decided to read after thoroughly enjoying the third book written by Haig, THE KINGMAKER (5 star review 5/13/03). The fourth book in the series, PRIVATE SECTOR was published late in 2003, (4 1/2 star review 11/11/03), so I skipped to that before returning to MORTAL ALLIES. In my estimation, the book reviewed here and THE KINGMAKER are the best two books in the series, although all are enjoyable reads. Both are action packed; this has a more complex philosophical dimension and convoluted plot, while the third novel in the series had several interesting twists, an intriguing personal dimension, and a further development of Drummond's character which I really enjoyed. So, you can partake of the complete meal which the author has prepared - appetizer, main course and dessert, or simply choose a la carte from among the choices. Among those choices, this one is especially recommended.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-04-01
US	50223242	R1WPNMW60A4BI4	0465053564	544501017	Butterfly Economics: A New General Theory of Social and Economic Behavior	Books	4	6	7	N	N	(4+) The Importance of Feedback and Chaos in Economic Theory	This book consists of a discussion by Paul Omerod of the obvious failings of conventional economic theory. He has attempted to utilize a framework understandable to members of the general public; in some respects, the author succeeds admirably in his attempt but as he himself comments in the introduction, on occasion simplicity is sacrificed  to the necessity of incorporating complex mathematical models and statistical constructs (with the most advanced math thankfully relegated to the appendices). Omerod's conceptual framework is that mechanistic notions of the economy (and social analysis in general) may have been necessary simplifications in the past given the limited experimental research done in many areas and the lack of computational power on the scale available to us today, but they are at best useless in today's increasingly interdependent world and in fact often are counterproductive. The book posits that \\"economies and societies are not machines. They are more like living organisms. Individuals do not act in isolation, but affect each other in complex ways.\\" Thus, BUTTERFLY ECONOMICS is meant to capture the author's view of society as a living organism; the conclusion implicit in this conceptualization is that the inherent unpredictability of economic systems means that governments' attempts to \\"manage\\" short term economic fluctuations are completely misguided .<br />This text is a well developed exposition of a very important topic that deserves to be better understood, and I found myself frequently writing notes in the margin and underlining worthwhile facts and ideas. I highly recommend the book for readers interested in a systematic critique of conventional economics, especially the extreme reliance on inappropriate mathematical modeling and the often misplaced faith in such models by politicians and their agents. The author's conclusion is that the ability of governments \\"both to make reasonably accurate forecasts and to understand the consequences of policy changes designed to alter the outcome is largely illusory\\". Since this conclusion corresponds with both the empirical data that I have observed and my philosophical inclinations, I was very pleased with the coherent argument which this book presents. Nevertheless, I felt that the framework which he used in attempting to provide an aura of scientific rigor in support of his premise was both a little distracting and left the book open to the charge of being simplistic (although that would paradoxically mean that the systems are even more complex than Omerod claims). While the title utilizes the butterfly analogy popularized by chaos theory and probably thus attractive and recognizable to readers, his book actually extensively relies on a model based on studies done of ant populations in order to incorporate both the notion of biological models and also scientific knowledge concerning the complexity of modeling the activity of interacting agents and the counterintuitive results that often occur. Thus the book should more accurately be subtitled, HOW DOES ANT BEHAVIOR ILLUMINATE ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES.<br />The final chapters of the book examine why long term growth is apparently fostered by capitalist industrial economies with a large free market component but not under other types of economic systems, and why private businesses are much better at creating jobs and wealth than are governments (which provide the necessary macro-environment). His explanation is in contrast to the concept of \\"growth factors\\" or \\"positive externalities\\" so often adopted as explanatory factors in economic literature. And he accurately distinguishes between short and long term predictability, and between fluctuations which simply represent random noise as opposed to significant deviations from trend. Adaptation and evolution are necessary elements of any cohesive theory, but devilishly difficult to accurately incorporate into models with any degree of predictive accuracy. <br />While Ifound this book illuminating and certainly believe that our economies would benefit and growth would be enhanced if its insights were more widely understood (especially by politicians or more importantly their constituents), I do have some criticisms. First, it seemed strange to me that either Omerod was not familiar with or didn't acknowledge the contribution to the conceptual framework which he espouses of Michael Rothschild. Rothschild's book BIONOMICS:ECONOMY AS ECOSYSTEM comprehensively discussed the biological analogy which Omerod finds so convincing. Second, while a topic somewhat peripheral to this book, he also does not discuss the recent advances in experimental economics (as evidenced by the award of the Nobel Prize to Professor Vernon Smith) and the insights which this discipline might provide to the development of his theory. Third, he attempts to accomplish both too much and too little in the book. I think the theoretical statement and implications should be more completely delineated rather than organizationally being so completely interwoven with what is essentially just explanatory and supporting detail.  Fourth, he falls into the common trap of assuming that most economic statistics are in fact a good approximation of reality, when many times subsequent restatements cast doubt on their accuracy. Last, in Chapter 5 he uses an incorrect illustration which shows that his academic training is not in mathematics. When discussing what is referred to as the Monty Hall problem (from the game show), he gives the wrong answer to what he admits is a very simple problem. Thus he inadvertently illustrates how important the correct statement of any problem is in arriving at the conclusion. The simple answer is correct, but he rejects it because he doesn't understand conditional probabilities and antecedent events in the illustration utilized. (Someone in England has clearly published an incorrect article on this subject, since quite surprisingly the exact sameexplanation was also used incorrectly in THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT TIME, another book by a British author.)<br />As Mark Twain observed, the difference between fact and fiction is that fiction has to be plausible. I recommend this book if you are interested in differentiating real facts from plausible fiction. My only caveat is that it is not a fast or easy read. <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-25
US	50223242	RDJX8Y4ROOPQ3	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	4	3	5	N	N	(4+) Action and Radical Politics for Patterson Fans	3RD DEGREE represents the epitome of the style that James Patterson (recently with Andrew Gross) has continued to refine into a very successful formula for creating bestselling novels - nonstop action; a relatively straightforward storyline with just enough complexity to keep his readers' interest; very short punchy chapters  which make it very easy for the reader to get caught up in the action (in this case the 111 chapters average only 2 1/2 pages each); and finally in the case of his series (first the Alex Cross books, now the Women's Murder Club), characters with whom his readers become increasing familiar. Several of his recent books have also included an historical component which I have found intriguing. Of course, the setting of THE JESTER (review 3/15/03) in the time of The Crusades was a complete departure from his previous novels, but previously FOUR BLIND MICE (review 11/25/02) and now also 3RD DEGREE have storylines which involve the Vietnam War era in some way. <br />SFPD Lieutenant Lindsay Boxer and her border collie Martha have just ended their morning jog at the Marina when an explosion rocks a town house across the street. Lindsay risks her life to rescue a young boy and three adult bodies are discovered when the rubble is searched. The investigating team believes that a bomb fashioned from high powered explosives triggered the blast, and the mystery deepens when there is no trace of an infant who lived there and a note is discovered claiming credit for the blast that is reminiscent of the radical rhetoric emanating from the Berkeley campus during the civil rights agitation and Vietnam War protests of the sixties. Very predictably for a James Patterson story, the violence escalates and additional murders occur. The vitriolic notes and emails received from the killers indicate that the agenda of the killers is political, with echoes of the recent anti-globalism protests that have turned vioent at meetings of the WTO and similar venues. Then, the stakes escalate when one of the four women members of the club is herself targeted by the killers.<br />In addition to the political dimension of the story, there is a personal angle as well (as has gradually evolved in the Alex Cross series). Given the high profile of the case and the fact that it appears that the terrorists are targeting high level political functionaries, Joe Molinari, a high ranking member of the Department of Homeland Security arrives to coordinate the Feds' activities with the SFPD search for the killers . As Joe and Lindsay team up on the investigation, it appears  increasingly likely that Joe may become an affiliate member of the Women's Murder Club or that he and Lindsay may team up in their own series. That is one of the reasons for my suspicions that there will be more terorist threats in future books. We are continually reminded that there are always additional soldiers willing to continue the battle, and the potential ambiguity created by the conclusion reminded me of the levels of deceit engineered by the criminal nicknamed the Mastermind who taunted Alex Cross for so long.<br />Of course this book makes no pretense at being great literature, and since the reader is introduced to the perpetrators early in the book, the tension concerns only how much violence the terrorists will commit before they will be apprehended and how they will be identified and caught. Nevertheless, I got caught up in the story and finished it in an afternoon. I enjoyed it more than many of Patterson's books for three reasons. First, I actually found the plot enjoyable, maybe because I remember the violence during the sixties so vividly and this effectively built on events of that era. The juxtaposition of the claim that the perpetrators (sometimes misguided, often manipulated) of such violence were seeking &quot;justice&quot; and yet were willing to use tactics that were anything but just to achieve their goals was vividly illustrated in this book.. Second, it didnot have the detailed descriptive passages of violence that often are an integral part of the author's books. ( I can understand terror, torture and mutilation without reading about the gruesome details.) Third, it actually raised some interesting issues in the context of the story, even if only superficially examining them. So, if you want a quick read that is quintessential Patterson, and can ignore the usual loose ends and lack of character development, you should enjoy this book.  If you are looking for a quick read where the solution to the violence is incidental to the wonderful interaction among the characters, then pick up BAD BUSINESS ( review 3/17/04), the latest Spenser novel by Robert Parker, instead. And if you want a full length murder mystery with a complicated plot and wonderful character development, you should read THE LAST GOODBYE by Reed Arvin (review 2/17/04).<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-23
US	50223242	R17YWK3I6NVUH3	0399151451	786542099	Bad Business (Spenser Mystery)	Books	5	15	25	N	N	(4 1/2) The Secrets of the Rich and Famous	I was fortunate enough to attend a book signing in NYC by Robert Parker immediately after the publication of BAD BUSINESS. The Q&A which preceded it covered a fascinating breadth of topics, including his background, personal philosophy, writing methodology, baseball (and sports in general), Robert Urich and Joe Montegna as Spenser, the lack of appreciation among today's readers for the way Raymond Chandler exercised his craft, and what genre actually characterizes his stories. He opined that while he understood the need for booksellers to include them in the mystery category and it certainly had aided his success, he actually viewed them as more commentaries on human nature and interpersonal relationships than mysteries per se. To roughly paraphrase him, no one reads his books anxiously awaiting the revelation of \\"who did it\\". Rather it's about the how and the why and how Spenser manages to exact some rough measure of justice for those concerned. Of course, if you are one of the many Spenser/Robert Parker fans, you are already aware of this fact and simply want to know how this story compares to the many previous books. Whereas if you are new reader, you undoubtedly are curious about not only the quality of this story but also whether it is the type of literature that you are likely to enjoy. <br />My five star rating is my summary answer to the question of where this book ranks relative to other Spenser novels, it is in the first tier and a natural progression of the series. It includes the wonderfully spare dialog that is a trademark of the relationship of Spenser and Hawk (with the usual commentaries on race), the wisecracking asides and double entendres between Susan and Spenser, the intrusion of Spenser's moral code as the action evolves and of course the ever increasing cast of characters that makes the series stay fresh and alive - Vinnie Morris, brief appearances by the cops Belson, Quirk, and Healy, the lawyer Rita Fiore as well, and almost without saying the essential role of Pearl (the Wonderdog) II. This case begins when Spenser is hired by Marlene Rowley to obtain evidence that will confirm her belief that her husband Trent is cheating on her, which she plans to use for leverage in a possible divorce. Complications begin when Spenser encounters two other low rent private eyes tailing other family members of the executives of Kinergy, the hugely successful and widely respected energy trading firm where Trent is CFO. It is soon clear that the lifestyles of the management team have been influenced by the concepts of pop radio talk show host Darrin O'Mara, whose notions of the role of \\"cross-connubial\\" relationships have provided the cover for the sexual experimentation that is occurring. Suddenly, however, the game being played rises to a much more dangerous level when Trent Rowley is discovered dead in his office one evening. As Spenser attempts to unravel the mystery, another death occurs and it is clear that much more is at stake than marital bliss. Kinergy turns out to be a thinly disguised Enron, and Bob Cooper, the CEO, could apparently be Ken Lay. Since forensic accounting is not Spenser's strong point (there is a wonderful aside by Belson to that effect), Spenser convinces his pal Marty Siegel (self described as \\"the best accountant in the world\\") to examine the books and he discovers an SPE (Special Purpose Entity), in this case the author's art imitates real life. So, it is left to Spenser to discover the roles of the various executives, including Bernie Eisen, the COO, who together with his wife Ellen were enjoying both the marital and financial shenanigans. And more importantly, how did such financial misdeeds suddenly become the backdrop for murder and whodunit? <br />The book is fun, interesting and the quick read that is typical of the series - a train or plane trip or a rainy day will be more than enough time to enjoy it thoroughly. And there are the usual nuggets of insight, such as Susan in her professional role as a shrink commenting upon the probable multiple motivations which Marlene had for hiring Spenser. She suggests to Spenser that in addition to preparing for the divorce, it meant that she could gain the information necessary to not only humiliate her husband and thus gain revenge but also she would no longer feel excluded but in effect become a vicarious participant. And in one of the truly memorable lines that makes Parker so enjoyable a writer and Hawk so unique a character, Hawk actually manages to accuse Susan of being an undershirt bigot. (Absolutely not! No explanation here, you have to read the book to uncover the meaning.) <br />I deducted a half point from my rating for two reasons. First, I was surprised to see Robert Parker utilize something as directly ripped from the headlines as the topic of corporate greed and accounting fraud to form the basis of his plot; even though this had an interesting twist and certainly allows the type of commentary on the human condition typical of Parker's work, it didn't really seem to play to his strengths as an author. (He solved the crime but basically left the financial issues that resulted from the fraud unresolved.) Second, the way Spenser wrapped up the case was very clever and actually quite amusing; while the action was incredibly abrupt the scene was in many ways among his best. However, I felt that justice was not as well served in all respects as in many of his other stories. However, to reiterate, an enjoyable read if you're a Spenser devotee,  and a story invoving a cast of characters that you'll probably want to spend more time with if this is your introduction.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-17
US	50223242	R39V0WU9P8PROA	0312301448	155794080	The Coil: A Novel (Liz Sansborough)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	(5+) A Terrific Thriller with Substance as Well as Action	I suggest that you READ MASQUERADE FIRST; I am extremely glad that I did so. (See review 3/4/04.) This sequel to MASQUERADE clearly incorporates all the necessary background information (gradually as required, rather than force feeding the reader a great deal of info all at one time) for this to be a wonderful standalone read. However, the analogy that I would draw is between an understanding of how turnips taste by listening to an excellent description by someone else versus an understanding gained through the experience of actually tasting them. Or, in this case a better analogy might be that it makes sense to partake of the superb appetizer before moving on to the main course, no matter how hungry one is and how delicious the rest of the meal appears. And that analogy is perfect, since those two wonderful works leave a high standard for the dessert that the author will have to prepare for all the new fans she will undoubtedly gain from the success of this book. It certainly seems that she has backed into a series in the same manner as did Robert Ludlum, her co-author of the Covert One series, with the Bourne trilogy. The difference being that the characters here are more complex, we have a new addition to the cast with this book, and that the several male and female leads take turns occupying center stage. <br />Five years ago Liz Sansborough completed her debriefings with the myriad government agencies interested in her career as an undercover field operative for the CIA and her knowledge of the Cold War assassin The Carnivore. She is now teaching at UC Santa Barbara and has combined her knowledge and intelligence to co-produce a hit cable TV series, SECRETS OF THE COLD WAR. The violence in her life seems a distant memory when she is unexpectedly viciously attacked while jogging and her world is thrown into sudden confusion. Relationships which she has taken for granted are brought into question; simultaneously her cousin Sarah and Sarah's husband have been attacked in Paris by an unknown group that is demanding immediate access to extremely valuable and sensitive information which they believe Sarah or Liz can locate for them. Suddenly Liz is plunged back into a world that she thought she had left behind, not only does she find herself in great danger but concomitantly finds her philosophical commitment to eschewing violence continually tested. As Liz tries to unravel the mystery of who is behind the attacks on her and Sarah, she crosses paths with Simon Childs, an undercover MI6 agent who she has not seen since they were childhood playmates. The shadowy forces pursuing Liz and Sarah clearly have immense resources; their apparent ability to utilize the assets controlled by both powerful governmental agencies and private corporations make them incredibly dangerous enemies and mean Simon and Liz become the proverbial agents afraid to come in from the cold. No brief description can adequately describe the complexity of the plot without including spoilers, so I will not try.  But if you want a wild ride around Europe, with the protagonists having to constantly use their skills to escape the unknown forces in pursuit, this book won't disappoint you.<br />There are three elements which elevate this book above the usual thriller, however. First, as in MASQUERADE, the characters are real people - not just action characters. And yet the author manages this character development through her narrative skill, not through long descriptive asides. Second, I found the extra touches truly enjoyable, e.g. one of the characters picking up a Covert One novel to read, the parking garage scene reminiscent of Jason Bourne's escape and especially the wonderful symbolic use of the Titans, which recalled long forgotten lessons of Greek mythology. Third and most importantly, this is a thriller with a stronger philosophical undertone than the previous story. There is a recurring discussion concerning the impact of globalization, and while not completely balanced it is far from a onesided tirade. More importantly, this is a wonderful and cautionary description of how power tends to corrupt even individuals with the best of intentions (to borrow an insight from Lord Acton). Invariably, the worthiness of the goals being pursued are invoked in an attempt to justify actions which are unexcusable. Just as predictably, the concentration of power also allows individuals corrupted by their personal desires to cause great harm in the pursuit of wealth, power, and fame. This story is an implicit plea for transparency in the major organizations which affect our lives, and clearly illustrates the need for our eternal vigilance and skepticism concerning all concentrations of power. But it is not a sermon, just a first rate thriller that provides cause for thought.<br />This book receives my highest recommendation for readers interested in the genre. Once again, read MASQUERADE first! It will increase your enjoyment of THE COIL, and if you are one of the few people not to like it then there is no reason to read this book anyway. A last important caveat, if you read THE COIL first, it is a true sequel and thus there is enough information provided concerning the events in the previous book so that MASQUERADE may not be nearly as suspenseful or as surprising if read subsequently.<br />Disclaimer: I was contacted by the author and furnished with an advance review copy of this book based on my reviews of previous books of this genre including THE JANSON DIRECTIVE (Ludlum - review 10/30/02) and THE ALTMAN CODE (Covert One - review 7/5/03). I have never met either the author or her publisher, but include this disclaimer so that the reader may have all significant information concerning any facts that may have prejudiced this review. Given my enthusiasm for her work, I am extremely pleased that she contacted me and alerted me to the publication of THE COIL.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-16
US	50223242	RCPJVZOQEEPSP	0345457587	306699785	Shadow Account (Frey, Stephen)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	(4 1/2) Financial Manipulation and Political Intrigue	Populists, Cynics, and Conspiracy Theorists will love this new book by Stephen Frey. It continues his tradition of thrillers which combine some complex financial chicanery with the frequent human desires for wealth, love (and on occasion sex as well) and power. It also provides the usual dose of enlightment for his readers through (perhaps overly) detailed explanations of some arcane financial methodologies and corporate structures essential to the storyline. Thus, despite the mild criticisms detailed at the end of this review, I recommend SHADOW ACCOUNT both for readers who have enjoyed the author's previous books and also new readers who are searching for a thriller where the financial manipulations seem ripped from today's headlines, especially those individuals outraged by recent revelations of corporate greed. (All of the author's books are written as standalone stories, so no knowledge of his previous work is necessary and there are no characters who have appeared in those books.) <br />Conner Ashby is a twenty-seven year old investment banker at Phenix Capital, a boutique firm recently founded by Gavin Smith that is trying to land its first headline grabbing assignment. He is USC graduate with the physique and conditioning common to the surfer world in which he grew up. For the previous three months Conner has had a relationship with the gorgeous LIz Shaw; his frustration has steadily increased due to the fact that although she seems to genuinely enjoy his company she has refused to return the three carat diamond engagement ring (from an investment banker at the bulge bracket firm Morgan Sayers) which is prominently displayed on her left hand. Thus, since their their relationship has to remain very low profile and discreet, Conner and Liz are spending their usual evening together at his apartment while her fiance is away on a business trip. Little does Conner realize how completely disrupted his life will be by the end of the first chapter (i.e. the same evening that we first meet him). He receives an email intended for someone else and sent to him in errorby someone who he doesn't recognize; the message apparently outlines a massive accounting fraud codenamed Project Delphi that apparently involves a major publicly traded company. When Conner leaves his apartment briefly to go to the deli for cigarettes for Liz, he is delayed by a chance meeting with a former girlfriend; when he returns he finds that his apartment has been ransacked and his whole existence turned upside down; he is at the start of a race against time to unravel the mystery surrounding that email before he loses everything that he holds dear.<br />We are subsequently introduced to Lucas Avery, a thirty-four year old chess fanatic, avid student of baseball statistics, and summa cum laude graduate of Northwestern University who seems the opposite of Conner in practically every way imaginable. He is a slight, prematurely balding individual who still has a crush on his lost college sweetheart and after failing to land a job on Wall Street is on a slow track to political oblivion. After a dozen years in DC, Lucas has only managed to climb to the level of a small office in the West Wing of the White House as Deputy Assistant Political Director to the President. But as befits a chess player, Lucas is extremely patient and believes that the opportunity to become \\"a player\\" and insider in the political game will eventually come his way. Voila! Unexpectedly Lucas is approached by Franklin Bennett, the President's Chief of Staff, to head up a top secret operation for the tough reelection campaign that is about to begin.  The storyline consists of the constantjuxtaposition of the two parallel heartstopping adventures involving Avery and Conner, which the reader knows will eventually intersect with potentially career destroying (and increasingly life threatening) consequences for both of them. As they try to unravel the mysteries surrounding the circumstances into which they have been thrust, no one can be trusted and nothing can be taken at face value.<br />The plot is quite intricate and relatively realistic; however the author apparently felt that it would  raise the stakes for Lucas and Conner if some deaths actually occurred and more violence was threatened. While the sensationalism created increases the tension, it is actually the source of one of my major criticisms; namely that it is almost impossible to believe that corporate malfeasance and political intrigue of the type involved in this story would have resulted in the level of violence commited by the malefactors (the beliefs of conspiracy theorists notwithstanding). In fact, the author also uses these deaths to avoid further complications that would arise if the individuals remained alive. On occasion he also uses a similar technique of allowing the protagonists to engage in acts that are somewhere between highly improbable and impossible in order to achieve the insights which are required at that point in the story. (I cannot provide details without including a spoiler.) My last criticism is that on occasion he provides such overwhelmingly detailed explanations concerning the rationale and methodology of the financial shenanigans that it seems that his goal is to furnish his readers with a textbook on accounting malfeasance and the problems of corporate governance rather than further the narrative. And on one occasion he does it by having Conner listen to a long explanation from a friend about subjects which he should have fully understood given their importance to his profession.<br />While my criticisms and a few inconsistencies were sufficent to keep me from giving a five star rating to SHADOW ACCOUNT, I want to emphasize that this is a highly recommended read and real page turner. The characters are interesting and there are several times when they manage to surprise us with their insights. So just don't expect realism - accept the author's shortcuts, and beglad that your problems are less threatening than those Conner and Lucas confront.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-16
US	50223242	R3KMJO9JCWMGZM	1413406114	444977471	Walk-On	Books	4	7	8	N	N	(4+) Choice, Temptation, Football and the Meaning of Life	Actions have consequences, and the unintended effects of the ever widening ripples of those consequences often touch not only the original actors and their friends and loved ones but complete strangers as well. This is the story of the actions which cause Mike Wilson's past to intersect with the future of his younger cousin Justin Chastain in a way which has life altering consequences for both of them. This story exists on many different levels, and thus it is difficult to briefly summarize the plot. At its simplest, it is a story of an obsessive dream that is lived out continually in the psyche of many middle aged  American males with limited athletic ability who hope to become sports legends by excelling in their favorite sport before thousands of energized fans in a championship game. Or as the title indicates, it is the dream of every non-invited non-scholarship WALK-ON to so dominate the tryouts that the coaching staff has no choice but to make a roster spot available for the new phenom. But the book is much more! In some respects it incorporates elements of the classic dilemma which Goethe masterfully and poetically described in FAUST- the potential cost of satisfying the yearnings inherent in the human condition. But in content and scope, it seemed to me to more closely incorporate elements of several films which I thoroughly enjoyed - FIELD OF DREAMS, THE ROOKIE (review 10/7/02), THE MAN ON THE TRAIN (review 7/9/03), and FREQUENCY. These all involve some elements of \\"the path not taken\\" as Robert Frost phrased it, and whether it is really possible to change the course of our lives. Two of them directly involved sports, and two also used unexplained scientific phenomena to tell their story, but my enjoyment of them was heightened because they could all be viewed as allegories rather than simply interesting films. However, my favorite is THE ROOKIE, because it was a true story and no literary sleight of hand or visual tricks were necessary.<br />Mike Wilson has become bored with his successful suburban life selling insurance while helping his wife Karen raise their two children. He is an extremely competitive weekend athlete who still remembers his moment of glory during a crucial high school football game. Unfortunately, his physical attributes are so ordinary and talent so limited that he never had any chance at all to fulfill his dreams. Suddenly, a family tragedy results in Mike inviting Justin Chastain, a cousin who he barely remembers from infrequent family visits long ago, to temporarily move in with the Wilsons. A freak storm causes a gradual transformation of these two men, and through Justin, Mike finds himself with the ability to belatedly pursue his dream. And that dream is to star on the big stage - college football at OU (Oklahoma University)! The first few chapters introduce the characters and provide the necessary context for the remainder of the story, but they were not compelling reading and the intervals in the timeline were not well choreographed. (This is one of the two reasons for the lack of a five star rating.)  However, once the stage is set, the story moves incredibly rapidly and smoothly and the author superbly captures the essence of the high stakes pressure cooker that is the world of Division 1-A football. It is riveting reading for a sports fan; I would guess that the book would be equally interesting to someone who enjoys the drama of human achievement and its often considerable cost. While such a reader might be tempted to skim some of the sports details, it is those details that give the story its realism - such as when we watch the week by week change in the polls as we inevitably move toward BCS selection time and the battle for the national championship. And on a parallel plane, the battle intensifies for the soul, heart and mind of Mike Wilson. Is his fate inevitable? Can the train be stopped?  What is destiny? There is no further description that I can provide without spoiling the story, but if you believe that in many ways sporting competition represents an analogy for aspects of our lives, you should enjoy this book as much as I did. <BR> <BR>In addition to the fact that the introductory chapters could have used some help from a good editor, the book also suffers from the occasional minor (and fortunately relatively infrequent) proofreading oversights often encountered in books from second tier publishers. My major reason for not rating the book five stars was my mixed reaction to the conclusion. On the positive side, it was extremely clever and unexpected, and certainly one of hope and redemption, both characteristics that I enjoy in the books that I read. And, I accept the author's chosen methodology of achieving the metamorphosis central to the story and in this regard the conclusion was consistent with the defining moment early in the story. But I felt that the redemption and renewal was too clever and too complete and the conclusion too hopeful, not in a saccharin way of overwhelmingly feelgoodism, but rather in the fact that there seemed to be relatively few permanent consequences to this attempt to change destiny and tempt fate, except perhaps that the outcomes of a few football games were affected and lives of other individuals tangentially changed. While a morality play doesn't have to explicitly discuss the ethics or moral lessons which it examines (and this book certainly has not even a hint of any explicit religious or philosophical implications), I was slightly disappointed that the complex issues raised were never examined. So, my rating is a compromise. Five stars plus as a football story, four stars for the author's attempt to use sports in order to examine and illuminate an age old human dilemma, and three stars for an ending that was dazzling but too simplistic. <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-03-05
US	50223242	R2NLI9MVV8VRK4	0312986033	545051235	Masquerade	Books	5	6	7	N	N	(4 1/2) A Hard To Put Down Ludlumesque Thriller	The novelist Gayle Lynds comes highly recommended by none other than the best selling thriller author of all time, Robert Ludlum. I am referring not to the standard \\"you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours\\" book jacket blurbs but rather to the fact that Ludlum actually selected her to co-author three books with him late in his career. Since I have been a Ludlum fan since his debut novel, THE SCARLATTI INHERITANCE, I have been intending to read some of Lynds' novels for the past few years; thus I purchased MASQUERADE when I noticed a new paperback edition on display. While I found their joint efforts to be worthwhile reads, I didn't feel that the plots were as complex and the tension as palpable as some of Ludlum's early books. Thus, I was extremely pleased to discover how successfully this book captures many of the elements that consistently made Ludlum's books so entertaining but at the same time gives the author the freedom to define herself and her style in an individualistic way that was impossible as Ludlum's collaborator.<br />I will only very briefly summarize the plot, since an extensive discussion would involve the spoilers that are difficult to avoid when summarizing most thrillers given the fact that unexpected plot twists are an essential element of the genre. Liz Sansborough has complete amnesia, and thus is totally dependent on her companion Gordon as she attempts to reconstruct her past. She finds that many of the skills which she possesses supposedly are the result of her previous career - CIA agent. However, she is living under the identity of Sarah Walker, an alias created by the government to protect her from elimination by a shadowy international assassin - the Carnivore. (In fact, there are several MASQUERADEs within the covers of this book.) Suddenly violence erupts, and Liz grows increasingly frustrated as Gordon and her government handlers continue to attempt to control the information available to her concerning her past while at the sametime recruiting her to reenter the clandestine world of international covert ops that the Carnivore inhabits. Soon Liz and a companion are on the run, not sure what the truth is and trying to stay alive while figuring out the real motivations of both sides - her supposed colleagues in the intelligence services and the Carnivore and his associates. (Shades of Jason Bourne in terms of the amnesia and a sidekick to help her unravel the mystery and watch her back, but the rest of the plot is totally original.)<br />This has the standard elements of the fast paced international thriller including several plot twists. First, the overmatched heroine who somehow keeps managing to overcome the odds. Second, the truly evil government operatives with their own motivations only gradually revealed. (Stay tuned for OPERATION GRANDEUR.) Third, a lot of violent action. Fourth, some financial chicanery and international currency manipulation involving both a quest for power and large sums of money. Fifth, some emotional connections between the central character and other persons as an element of the narrative. However, this story is more complex and with more plot twists than the standard novel of this genre. It involves interesting elements of psychological conditioning and mind control, and a distinguishing element is that a few of the characters are more fully developed than those usually featured in most thrillers. This is especially true with regard to several personal complex relationships that are only gradually revealed (pay attention !); this feature is in fact essential to the storyline. The author also uses the flashback technique effectively. While such a device is probably a necessary element of a story involving amnesia, it is also used in other contexts as well to tie up loose ends much more completely than is often the case. Several times when I noted unexplained occurrences or had unanswered questions, this technique was used in an explanatory manner later in the story.<br />As my rating indicates, I strongly recommend this book if you like action packed international thrillers pitting good against evil. The message is not at all preachy, and the author's point of view with regard to the subject matter in no way intrudes on the story. An additional bonus turned out to be that my edition included a sneak preview for Gayle LYNDS' soon to be published new book, THE COIL. The preview makes clear why MASQUERADE has been reissued; THE COIL is in fact a sequel and Liz Sansborough reappears as a central character. Therefore, this book is not only enjoyable as a standalone story but also concludes with the anticipation of another great read. The first reason why I only rated the story four and a half rather than a full five stars is that a few elements of the story line (and particularly the key plot twist) were somewhat predictable to the reader as the story unfolded even though the characters involved were still unaware of the factors at work. While this was probably unavoidable given the construction of the story and the structure of the plot, I felt that it was enough of a negative to slightly reduce my rating. In addition, Liz's incredible talents and well trained intuition at times seemed too great for someone in her position and yet these fantastic strengths which she possessed alternated with her making some pretty basic mistakes at times.  However, I want to reiterate that this is a first rate story, with plenty of mystery and a few twists that came out of left field and hit me right between the eyes. <BR> <BR>Tucker Andersen	2004-03-04
US	50223242	R1KN1MFDX3CZTE	1930865538	899630309	You Can't Say That!: The Growing Threat to Civil Liberties from Antidiscrimination Laws	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Beware the Ever Increasing Power of the Speech Police!!	Early in life my parents taught me the childhood ditty \\"Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me\\" in order to inculcate into me the realization that my belief in myself was more important than what anyone else thought about me. After all, America was a \\"free country\\", and an essential element of that freedom was encompassed by the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment to our Constitution, the document which together with the Declaration of Independence outlined the political philosophy of the founders of our country. However, as David Bernstein shows in this marvelous new book, increasingly over the past few decades intolerant activist zealots have managed to \\"impose their moralistic views on all Americans\\". And one fascinating aspect of this trend which he discusses is the \\"psychological endowment effect\\", that by promoting monetary remedies and subsidizing feelings of outrage over alleged injustices, we have reinforced the probability that the trend will continue. <br />The primary focus of this book by Professor (at George Mason University School of Law) Bernstein is the tendency of the judiciary to abandon our Constitutional protection against government's ability to regulate speech when such speech (and very worrisomely even acts such as laughter or simply staring) conflicts with antidiscrimination laws and the regulations of the agencies charged with their enforcement. The book is very well organized; it begins with a general background discussion of the problem including important contextual history and proceeds to discuss several related aspects of the problem including the threat to artistic freedom, workplace regulation, speech codes on public university campuses, the regulation of religious schools and the threat to the autonomy of private organizations. Some of the most enlightening material outlines the increasing tendency of the judiciary to defer to the bureaucratically promulgated regulations of such governmentagencies as HUD, the EEOC and the DOE, which often seem to view their own intentions as above criticism and attempt to censor and even legally punish individuals who express disagreement with their goals. <br />This is a book that should be widely read and debated, since the topic influences all individuals in a myriad of ways.  I hope that the academic approach to the subject does limit the audience for the book to readers with a legal background; despite copious footnotes the book is very readable and many of the references and cases discussed are fascinating. Despite my long standing layman's interest in the area of Constitutional law and my exposure as a member of the Cato Institute Board of Directors to previous publications discussing various aspects of this topic, this is by far the most comprehensive and systematic treatment that I have seen. The final chapter includes a fascinating discussion of the gradual transformation of the ACLU from an organization that was a stalwart defender of civil liberties to one increasingly captured by the adherents to a \\"liberal\\" code of political correctness. <br />The conclusion then examines the trend in other countries to adopt even more draconian impositions of statist authoritarian regulations, e.g. an Australian ban on dating services that tried to match partners with a religious preference (perhaps antidiscrimination marriage regulations will follow) and a Canadian criminal conviction of a high school teacher purely on the basis of \\"hate speech\\". As a Canadian professor of constitutional law has opined, \\"Canada now is a totalitarian theocracy... ruled today by...a secular state religion [of political correctness]. Anything that is regarded as heresy or blasphemy is not tolerated.\\" Such a result is consistent with the goals of such free speech opponents in this country as well known Professor Stanley Fish, who attempts to deconstruct our legal traditions in the same way that he has deconstructed literature and who claims that all decisions regarding allowable speech are political and based on an exercise of power. Therefore, according to Fish, the targets of offensive speech and acts have every right to be legally protected from the indignity (read psychological harm) which they might suffer as a result of such acts. Contrast this view and the current climate regarding the imposition of limitations on permissible speech with the 1943 Supreme Court decision which eloquently concluded \\"If there is any fixed star in our constitutional constellation, it is that no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion or force citizens to confess by word or act their faith therein. If there are any circumstances which permit an exception, they do not now occur to us.\\"<br />In summary, this book is about the conflict between an increasingly expansive view of civil rights versus the traditional primacy of civil liberties, and about the imposition of \\"civility\\" through political power and judicial reinterpretation of the Constitution rather than by argument and debate within civil society. As one reviewer cogently observed, this book might be deemed incomplete in that it does not include a discussion of the philosophical grounding of our First Amendment rights in the Founders' belief that these rights derived from the natural law view that we each possess a \\"property right\\" in ourselves and our actions. However, such an examination might easily have in fact become a distraction to the excellent focus which the book provides on the author's stated goal of examining and documenting the erosion of our civil liberties and the resultant implications for our personal freedom and privacy rights, thus I have chosen not to reduce my rating despite this omission. <br />Disclaimer: as stated above, I am a member of the Board of Directors of The Cato Institute, which published this book. While I do not feel that my objectivitywas compromised in composing this review, I felt it incumbent upon me to disclose this fact to provide you, the reader, with the necessary information to decide if you believe that I have a significant conflict of interest which might have influenced my rating.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-02-19
US	50223242	R28UDIFUQJ6JKO	0060555513	583963115	The Last Goodbye	Books	5	11	16	N	N	(5-)An Intense Thriller/Love Story by a Very Talented Author	I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS BOOK. Reed Arvin does a masterful job of weaving together several elements into a fast moving thriller with a complex plot. But this is much more - it is a powerful story of love and death, right and wrong, joy and grief, medical ethics and biotechnology research, the obligations of friendship, modern day Atlanta, addiction and the culture of illegal drugs, computer and software technology, racial attitudes and Black success in modern day America, the possibility of redemption, and the interaction of free will and determinism in our lives. It even manages to incorporate a crucial role for opera into the book in a way that even I (a person with scant knowledge of and little interest in the topic) found both very illuminating and enjoyable. <br />This book opens with a powerful self indictment by the first person narrator, Jack Hammond, regarding his conduct in an incident which took place two years ago which is responsible both for his current circumstances and more importantly for &quot;the scar on his soul&quot;. Jack is currently a struggling lawyer with an office in a run down section of Atlanta. As he is reminiscing about the sage advice of a former law professor, he is notified that the police have discovered the dead body of his friend, Doug Townsend, in Doug's own apartment. Doug died of an apparent drug overdose, and they plan to close the case and rule it DBS (Death By Stupidity). Since Doug has recently turned his life around, Jack decides to investigate and quickly discovers evidence that amazingly Doug might in some way have been secretly involved with Michele Sonnier, &quot;the most exciting female voice to have emerged in the opera world in the last ten years&quot;. Perhaps not coincidentally, Michele is also Mrs. Charles Ralston,  the CEO of a biotech company about to engage in an IPO that will make her husband one of the richest black men in Atlanta. It would be impossible to do justice to the plot without providing several spoilers, so I will simply summarize by saying that there are several additional elements that are integral to the story and amazingly the author manages to weave them all together in a coherent plot. He also cleverly employs language in a manner which creates images that add to the enjoyment of the book.<br />A bonus is that the story involves not only an interesting and multifaceted plot but actually raises significant philosophical issues as well. Furthermore, the character development is first rate. Obviously given the number of individuals who have key roles to play, we do not completely get to know each of them, but they are not the mere cardboard cutouts so often found in this genre. In fact, even a relatively minor character such as Blu McClendon, Jack's secretary, comes alive as the story proceeds. While this story can be a fast read, it is not the sort of mindless and escapist storyline which is so frequently found in the thriller genre and consequently requires little attention from the reader. Thus, I suggest that you plan to read it when you have enough time to enjoy the complexity of the storyline. You will miss the essence of the author's achievement if you simply speed read the book, since it is the overall experience which the details create that is so extraordinary. Finally, you should be prepared for a philosophically satisfying ending that is consistent with the tone of the story and the title, but understand that this is not a feel good tale where everything ends well for all concerned.<br />Despite my high praise, I have two reservations which are responsible for my rating  being lowered to five minus, rather than a full five stars. While they did not detract significantly from my enjoyment of the book, they were meaningful. I will only describe them in general terms, so as not to reveal any crucial elements of the plot. First, I think that the actions engaged in by certain businessmen and which were central to one element of the plot were  extremely unlikely to happen in corporate America, regardless of the stakes involved. Second, there is a minor plot element regarding the financial markets which is cleverly introduced near the end of the story to add a further complication. While it won't bother readers without specialized knowledge of trading and the stock market, this an area of my expertise and the sequence of events and legal implications as depicted by the author are both wrong and impossible. (E.g. the word bid is incorrectly substituted for offer.) This is not in any way crucial to the plot, but is nevertheless unfortunate. (I have contacted the publisher and they will try to correct this in future printings. I was also been assured that the details regarding the technology elements central to the plot had been reviewed by experts in those fields.) I just want to emphasize that I regard my criticisms as minor, and believe that THE LAST GOODBYE will turn out to be one of my favorite books of 2004.<BR> <br />Disclaimer: This review is based on an advance review copy (ARC) which I was furnished by the publisher. I had been contacted by their marketing department based upon my previous reviews of books in this genre. After receiving a description of the plot and checking the reviews of THE WILL (the author's previous book), I agreed to read the book but furnished no guarantee that I would submit a review. I have no relationship with and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher. If anything, I have presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve in order to prove my objectivity. Furthermore, in the majority of my previous reviews of books where I have received ARCs I have rated them less than five stars. Nevertheless, I believe that such disclosure is appropriate and thus choose to include a standard disclaimer whenever I may be perceived to have a potential conflict of interest. <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-02-17
US	50223242	R31ERXJ5BTN4K9	0446530980	861999493	The Zero Game (Meltzer, Brad)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A Clever Political Game Turns Deadly	For his fifth novel, Brad Meltzer returns to the D.C. locale of two of his earlier books, THE TENTH JUSTICE (his first) and THE FIRST COUNSEL (his third). This story follows the same format as his previous works; it is a fast paced thriller that is built around a particular branch of government, in this case Congress, especially the inner workings of the appropriations process. (The other books dealt with events inside the Supreme Court and the White House, respectively.) In keeping with Meltzer's past work, events quickly transpire which involve the main characters in situations well above their pay grades and place them in extreme danger as a result of knowledge which they possess. Then, as is common to all of the author's work and in keeping with the format of the genre, there is a race against time and a struggle against seemingly overwhelming odds to unravel the mystery before the protagonists are killed.<br />The first sixty pages of THE ZERO GAME are much slower moving than most of Meltzer's stories, but are very cleverly utilized to present the backdrop for the plot. We meet Matthew Mercer, a 32 year old assistant in the office of Congressman Cordell and his older college friend, Harris Sandler, who has been employed on Capitol Hill since graduation and now works for Senator Stevens. They have been recruited to participate in a clandestine game that is only known to the participants. In fact, an integral element of the game is that it is conducted as an anonymous chain where the identities of the other players involved are furnished only in code form. It appears to be a harmless diversion that involves betting on relatively inconsequential Cogressional items and which injects some excitement, risk, strategy and the possibilty of financial gain into the frequent tedium of the day-to-day legislative process. The author has created a really ingenious idea and his descriptions of both the conduct of the game itself as well as the inner workings of the Capitol (the staff, politicians, lobbyists, and the building itself) are very informative and create a completely credible aura for the story which follows.<br />Surprise! It suddenly seems that the game may not be as innocuous as it appears; someone regards its current subject as important enough to attempt to manipulate the outcome regardless of the cost. People start to die, and it is totally unclear who can be trusted and what comprises the real agenda of Martin Janos (a stone cold killer masquerading as an FBI agent) and his unknown associates. A sixteen year old Senate page is reluctantly enlisted to help unravel the mystery, and a breakneck and almost continuous chase develops as the Congressional aides, isolated from their friends and associates, try to develop an understanding of the goal of the high stakes game in which they are caught while simultaneously managing to stay alive. The plot is quite original, and I have chosen not to include more specific details in order to avoid spoilers.<br />The author states in his acknowledgements,&quot;in every novel, the goal is to make a complete fabrication sound like absolute fact. The only way to pull it off is to arm yourself with details.&quot; And as I stated above, he does an incredibly good job of creating a credible premise because of the level of convincing detail that his research has provided for the major elements of this book. The influence of lobbyists, the Congressional appropriation process and House-Senate conference procedure are all accurately portrayed in detail, and the author even descended into a mine to make sure that the portion of the story that takes place in such a venue would ring true. (N.B. If you suffer from claustrophobia do not read this book, two lengthy segments of it take place in confined quarters underground.) Unfortunately, as in Meltzer's previous books, the action eventually gets so sensational and so far fetched that he does not achieve his goal. An occasional difficult escape is standard for this genre, but some of these are nothing short of miraculous, usually without the benefit of either the training or equipment which would lend them any credibility at all. <br />Two other elements deserve comment. First, there is the usual lack of character development in such stories, although enough details are provided concerning each of the main characters to keep them from appearing unidimensional. (Perhaps the most interesting involve Janos' observations in regard to his love of automobiles.) Second, as with THE FIRST COUNSEL, this story is told in the form of a first person narrative. This is very effective and serves the author's goals well, but there is a disconcerting element. Since no person is present for all the action, we witness the events through the eyes of multiple individuals. This was a little disconcerting when the transitions occurred; fortunately they were not too frequent and handled well by the author.<br />In summary, there are several really interesting elements to this story, and the premise is indeed very clever.  If you are a Brad Meltzer fan or like action thrillers with a political flavor, you should enjoy this book.  Despite its weaknesses and the fact that several of the plot twists were foreshadowed as the story proceeded, I decided that it deserved a four star rating. However, with a lot less sensationalism and a tighter plot it would easily have deserved a solid five stars. Thus, in the end I was both disappointed and tantalized by its unrealized potential.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-02-10
US	50223242	RMJP99OCOKCSX	0446531448	19562226	The First 48 (Green, Tim)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	(4-) A Book with an Excellent Plot but Unrealized Potential	In many ways, this is a typical TIm Green thriller, a fast moving story relatively light on character development but held together by a tight timeline, non-stop action, and at least one unexpected plot twist. The story begins with a brief prologue whose relevance is only established later but which provides sufficient context to allow the reader to guess the motivations of some of the important protagonists as the story unfolds. Unfortunately, therefore, this somewhat reduces the suspense regarding one element of the story. In Chapter One we meet Tom Redmon, an almost fifty year old former prosecutor now barely making ends meet as a low-rent defense attorney who drinks too much in order to keep in touch with his dead wife Ellen and to ease the pain that remains from the long ago incident that ruined his career. Soon thereafter, we meet Tom's only friend and part time investigator, Mike Tubbs - a thirty year old, three hundred pound reformed motorcycle gang member and computer genius who feels that Tom's legal skills and persistence were responsible for keeping him out of prison and that he thus owes Tom a debt that can never be adequately repaid.<br />We have only just been introduced to Tom long enough to learn a little of his eccentric nature when the scene shifts from Ithaca, NY to the newsroom of THE WASHINGTON POST. There a shadowy source is feeding Tom's daughter Jane, a young reporter, very damaging information about none other than Michael Gleason, the cause of her father's downfall many years ago and now a senior and very powerful U.S. Senator. As Jane becomes convinced that she may have a story of Pulitzer Prize potential if her source is trustworthy, she decides that she has to visit her father and confront him in order to finally learn the secret of how Gleason destroyed Tom's career as background for her understanding of the Senator and in order to decide if he is  as corrupt as her source has indicated. Under a morning deadline from her editor, Jane returns to DC later the same night to prepare the story for the editor's approval, but she fails to appear at work the next day. When Tom contacts her editor the next afternoon after becoming concerned about her, he learns that the police are investigating her disappearance and that her apartment has been ransacked.<br />Tom was a policeman before attending law school, so he immediately recognizes that THE FIRST 48 hours after a subject's disappearance are crucial to successfully locating the person alive. Since the countdown has effectively begun several hours earlier, he and MIke immediately pack up Tom's old diesel pickup truck and head for DC. Tom finds that his sense of urgency is not shared by either the POST management or the DC police, both of whom are treating Senator Gleason with the deference that the powerful in Washington so often command. Tom's reputation as an oddball and his aggressive behavior quickly end all chances for their cooperation, so he and Mike decide to independently investigate Jane's disappearance. Of course, Tom is totally convinced that Gleason is undoubtedly the key to the puzzle, and makes the Senator the initial target of his inquiry. He and Mike also pursue the parallel track of determining the identity of her shadowy source.<br />The plot has several threads that are ingeniously woven together, and the depiction of the intrigue surrounding the Washington lobbying scene is accurately drawn. The book is an easy read and a real page turner; I started it during an afternoon and had finished it by bedtime without speedreading. Also, in some ways, the central charcters are much better developed than in Green's earlier books. During explanatory flashbacks, we learn a lot about Tom and a fair amount about Mike, and we are treated to a wonderful tradition which has evolved which involves the exchange between them at appropriate moments of relevant philosophical insights drawn from recognizable historical figures . So, why not a five star rating? The story suffers from the two interrelated flaws which plague the author's other books which I have read. First, there are a few too many tricks played on the reader in regard to certain events. (I cannot be more specific without creating a spoiler.) While this makes the story more exciting and unpredictable, it does so in a way that is basically a shortcut for the author at the reader's expense. Second and much more importantly, Green does a great job of providing many accurate and interesting details in order to create a realistic backdrop, but then in an apparent effort to increase the &quot;thrill quotient&quot; and keep the reader's adrenaline pumping he makes some elements of the story so farfetched as to cause it to lose all credibilty. It undoubtedly is a great story for a speed reader, who would probably primarily care about the plot and love the action; in some ways it is a better movie outline than a book.<br />If you are a Tim Green fan or are just looking for an action thriller that has an interesting plot and which is a fast read, this book should provide a few hours of enjoyment. This is the fourth book by Tim Green that I have read, and it is much superior to his last effort, THE FIFTH ANGEL (review 3/21/03). It is about on a par with THE LETTER OF THE LAW, but not nearly as good as THE FIFTH PERIMETER, so if you haven't read that one I recommend it highly.  <br />Tucker Andersen	2004-02-08
US	50223242	R1JYE2IXJ4UB8W	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	(4 1/2) The Sins of the Fathers	Dennis Lehane is that rare author who manages to combines the ability of a masterful wordsmith with interesting plots and storylines that raise significant issues. I first read SHUTTER ISLAND (review 5/7/03) and was so blown away by the conclusion that I immediately decided to read more of his work. I next chose MYSTIC RIVER given the wonderful reviews that it generated; while it fully confirmed his incredible talents as an author, it was so unrelenting dark and depressing that I literally had trouble completing the book (review 6/27/03). My conclusion was that Lehane's view of the human experience (at least in regard to the subjects of his novels) could almost be summarized by the well known admonition \\"abandon hope all ye who enter here\\". I recently decided that I would attempt to read his acclaimed debut novel A DRINK BEFORE THE WAR since I am an avid reader of the genre (detective series). I knew it was the first of five volumes in a series with Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro as the central characters, and I was interested in reading his original work in order to see how his style and talents had evolved since then. I am very glad that I decided not to abandon his books after MYSTIC RIVER, since I found this a wonderful read despite my reservations described later in this review.<br />This is a dark story involving a group of Boston politicos who hire Patrick Kenzie and his associate and high school friend Angela Gennaro to retrieve some documents purportedly stolen by a cleaning woman who has subsequently disappeared. However, their assignment quickly becomes complicated by violence directed against Patrick and by a subsequent murder; they realize that a simple case whose solution would ingratiate them with the wielders of political power in their city (and thus the dispensers of meaningful favors on occasion) involves much more than a few missing documents. Thus begins a powerful story that foreshadows many of the themes in Lehane's later books, especially the theme of abuse so powerfully examined in MYSTIC RIVER. Sin and redemption, hate and love, the continuation of hope in the face of overwhelming odds and the possibility and role of forgiveness in human relationships all figure prominently in this story. Numerous instances of both child and spousal abuse (physical and psychological) are central to this story; they are gradually revealed very skillfully by the author as we get to know Angela and Patrick. In addition, there are significant racial overtones and the threat of gang warfare is omnipresent as one of the many personal battles and turf conflicts to which the title refers.<br />The conclusion is somewhat predictable and certainly foreshadowed, but the pleasure in this story is in the wonderfully descriptive passages which Lehane provides and the psychological depth of the main characters counterposed with the well recognized caricatures of many of the peripheral actors in this drama. My caution concerning this book and the indecision which I have about reading more of Lehane's work stems from the extreme amount of brutality and violence graphically depicted. While most of the violence is essential to the storyline, there is one torture scene so shockingly detailed that I recommend that the squeamish not read this book. However, my enjoyment of the author's narrative skills combined with an ending ambivalent enough to provide hope for the future that I decided that despite my qualms the book deserved a five star rating. AND THE TWO PAGE OPENING IS ONE OF THE BEST THAT I HAVE EVER READ, it provides a great hook and accurately sets the tone for the reading adventure that you will experience.<br />Tucker Andersenthe theme of abuse so powerfully examined in MYSTIC RIVER. Sin and redemption, hate and love, the continuation of hope in the face of overwhelming odds and the possibility and role of forgiveness in human relationships all figure prominently in this story. Numerous instances of both child and spousal abuse (physical and psychological) are central to this story; they are gradually revealed very skillfully by the author as we get to know Angela and Patrick. In addition, there are significant racial overtones and the threat of gang warfare is omnipresent as one of the many personal battles and turf conflicts to which the title refers. <br />The conclusion is somewhat predictable and certainly foreshadowed, but the pleasure in this story is in the wonderfully descriptive passages which Lehane provides and the psychological depth of the main characters counterposed with the well recognized caricatures of many of the peripheral actors in this drama. My caution concerning this book and the indecision which I have about reading more of Lehane's work stems from the extreme amount of brutality and violence graphically depicted. While most of the violence is essential to the storyline, there is one torture scene so shockingly detailed that I recommend that the squeamish not read this book. However, my enjoyment of the author's narrative skills combined with an ending ambivalent enough to provide hope for the future that I decided that despite my qualms the book deserved a five star rating. AND THE TWO PAGE OPENING IS ONE OF THE BEST THAT I HAVE EVER READ, it provides a great hook and accurately sets the tone for the reading adventure that you will experience.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-02-03
US	50223242	R1Q9RB1P2K21LS	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	304	356	N	N	An Intriguing Personal Journey from Liberal to Libertarian	As a long-time resident of the greater NYC Metropolitan area, I have been familiar with the work of John Stossel since his appearances on WCBS-TV as an in-your-face consumer reporter early in his career. I took notice when he moved to network TV after being hired by Roone Arledge, and continued to enjoy his reporting even though I sometimes disagreed with some of his premises. I then became a viewer of his specials which often questioned liberal orthodoxy with such catchy titles as \\"Are We Scaring Ourselves To Death?\\"  I regularly found these to be both informative and provocative. Thus, I was very pleased to meet when we both attended a conference several years ago. Since then I have seen him once or twice a year at other events that we have both attended and regard him as a casual friend since we share a common philosophical outlook with regard to the role of government in our lives.  When I happened to see John at a recent meeting and he mentioned that he was about to have a book published, I asked him if I could get a review copy in order to review it for Amazon and his publisher agreed. Of course, I recognized that if I didn't like the book, a bad review might chill our friendship, but fortunately this is a thoroughly enjoyable recounting of John's career.  As a disclaimer, I want to mention that my belief in the educational value of John's work (and its potential to be a catalyst for classroom discussion of the topics involved) has led me to also provide some modest financial support to intheclassroom.org, the organization which provides copies of John's programs and classroom guides to high school and college teachers interested in the material. <br />I view this book as a semi-autobiography, because while it is John Stossel's story told in his own words it involves his professional life supplemented by anecdotes from his personal life only where necessary to inform the story. (E.g, in one case he uses his experience as a father of a boy and a girl to discusshis insights regarding the \\"no gender difference\\" agenda of radical feminists. In another instance he discusses his stuttering in the context of the ADA - Americans with Disabilities Act.) This book benefits from the author's long media experience; as opposed to many non-fiction books which I have found necessary to read in short segments interspersed with other tasks, this narrative  flowed quite smoothly and the material was presented in sound-bite segments which were both interesting and comprehensible. There were many complex ideas, but the author's presentation benefited from having had to thoroughly analyze and understand them in order to present them convincingly on TV, a medium which is often geared towards viewers with  short attention spans and their fingers on their remote controls. <br />Stossel uses extensive examples throughout this book to illustrate how his consumer reporting led him to a better understanding of how the profit motive and capitalism encourage entrepreneurs to act in ways that provide enormous long term benefits to consumers despite the cheats and scoundrels that he so often successfully exposed as a zealous reporter. concurrently he noticed that the proposed \\"solutions\\" provided by government regulations and runaway lawsuits were often counterproductive in that the problems often remained or were sometimes even made worse. Attempts to redistribute the wealth accumulated by the businessmen who provided innovative goods and services meant that their innovation was often stifled, and government attempts to correct \\"market failures\\" led to such disasters as `public housing \\" being trashed by tenants who had had no influence over the management of their developments and no economic interest in the property. The book is filled with examples of politicians selectively favoring their friends and enforcing the laws, often to the detriment of the least fortunate in our society. It also contains interesting material that his researchers assembled that questions the common wisdom in many areas. He presents some wonderful statistics concerning such controversial areas as the relationship between poverty and societal freedom and the relative danger which we face from different commonly perceived risks. (Are you aware that despite the general dread of toxic waste and massive spending on remediation, fire is responsible for the loss of five times as many days of life on average for an American as is toxic waste?)<br />Stossel deserves great credit for actually letting the reality of his experiences overcome many of the preconceptions upon which his beliefs were based, and recognizing that many of the sacrosanct liberal solutions to people's problems were counterproductive despite the best of intentions. This is an easy book to read, since it is written in a conversational style. It is likely to make the extreme liberals who read it apoplectic, since the evidence which Stossel assembles is so antithetical to many of their beliefs. But it will also make many conservatives uneasy, since he is as critical of their attempts at social engineering and the limitations which they try to impose on personal freedom and the rights of privacy in the guise of morality as he is of the liberal's desire for government intervention in the economic sphere and attempts to impose their \\"politically correct\\" solutions upon us. Thus, he advocates legalization of drugs, not because he sanctions their use but because he views the \\"war on drugs' as very counterproductive to our society, other goals of our law enforcement community, and our international relations.<br /> I greatly enjoyed this book and strongly recommend it for anyone with an open mind and an interest in the libertarian view of the world. My one caveat is that there is some repetitive material in here for those who are familiar with the author's reporting and watch his programs regularly, but this was definitely not enough of a negative to affect my great enjoyment or my rating.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-01-20
US	50223242	R2404FN0I32FXU	0670031380	293390331	The Terra-cotta Dog (Inspector Montalbano Mysteries)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Inspector Montalbano's Curiosity Is Finally Satisfied	This is the second translation by Stephen Sartrelli that I have read of an Inspector Salvo Montalbano mystery by Andrea Camilleri, and I enjoyed it immensely. While THE SHAPE OF WATER (four star review 12/18/03) was an entertaining introductory volume to this series (which has become a best seller in Europe), I found the author's technique in this story of utilizing a present day mystery which Montalbano has to unravel as the introduction to an unrelated fifty year old murder mystery to be both clever and unusual. Usually when such crimes are resurrected decades after their occurrence, it is because they have some direct connection to the present day events under investigation, not the casual and coincidental connection which is the case in this story.<br />Several threads are very cleverly intertwined in this story, which begins with a meeting with Montalbano's boyhood friend Gege Gullota, a small-time hood to whom we were introduced in the first volume in this series. A famous and highly placed Mafioso has requested that Gege arrange a meeting between the Inspector and this individual, and the consequences flowing from this meeting form the backdrop for much of the storyline which dominates the early part of the book. There is another element of the story which at first appears unrelated but in typical Camilleri fashion is eventually interwoven with the main plot, this involves a strange supermarket heist in the middle of the night only to have the loot found in an abandoned truck the next day. Unexpected deaths and attempted murders soon occur, and the trail of events leads Montalbano to a mysterious mountain hiding place for contraband and the eventual discovery of evidence of a fifty year old crime in a hidden and long sealed grotto watched over by THE TERRA-COTTA DOG whose presence is the basis for the title of the book.<br />As the story proceeds. Montalbano's life itself is threatened, and the resultant events ironically enough provide him with the opportunity to engage in a digression from his police work and satisfy his curiosity regarding the long ago tableau which he literally unearthed. This is both a police procedural and a character study, and it succeeds wonderfully in both respects. Part of the charm is that many of the characters from the earlier story appear, providing continuity and a feeling of familiarity. We gradually become better acquainted with the Inspector's police associates, as well as with his personality quirks and eating and reading habits. Finally, a scene where Livia (his friend and lover), Anna (the young woman infatuated with him), and Ingrid (the beautiful foreigner whom he has secretly helped in return for her secret aid in his investigations) all appear simultaneously to express their concern for his safety is a wonderful moment. Thus, some part of my greater enjoyment of this book than the first volume clearly resulted from the fact that in the tradition of other successful detective series this book continued and built upon the foundation of the earlier volume. Sicily and the fictional town of Vigata and its citizens and environs seem to come alive with the help of the author's careful attention to detail. One nice feature of this series that deserves comment is the fact that this is one of those Penguin soft covers that really are pocket sized, so they conveniently fit in a corner of your bag or coat pocket and are easy to read on the train or plane. <br />My only caution would be that these are stories of detail, both with regard to Montalbano's personal habits and also with regard to the mysteries themselves. There are only brief moments of intense action, and most of the violence happens outside the direct scope of the narrative. The details are cataloged and evaluated by the author with regard to Montalbano and by Montalbano with regard to the various mysteries which he is trying to unravel. The solution to the mystery of THE TERRRA COTTA DOG is clever, very intellectually satisfying, internally consistent but in some ways very quiet and anti-climatic in tone.<br />Disclaimer:While I was contacted by an employee of the publisher and asked to review the most recent book in the series, I wanted to introduce myself to the character as the author intended and decided to read the volumes in order to determine if the series was of interest to me. Based on my enjoyment of the first two stories, I definitely plan to further enjoy following Detective Montalbano as he attempts to solve additional cases. As a disclaimer, I know no one employed by the publisher and have had no contact with either the author or translator. However, I believe it appropriate to disclose that as is customary I was furnished a review copy of this book but I did not provide any assurance that I would produce a review or what its contents would be if I did so.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-01-14
US	50223242	R27RODSLYD09JJ	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	8	13	N	Y	(4 1/2) Has the Potential to be a Fabulous Film	This is an incredibly fast moving, well researched, well plotted thriller by an author whose potential has already clearly been recognized, as evidenced by the fact that  his novel HIGH CRIMES became a successful film starring Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd. The book is a very fast and engaging read, and I enjoyed it quite a bit. I will indicate my reasons for not rounding up my rating to five stars later in this review, after first providing a summary of the plot.<br />Adam Cassidy, a bored twenty-six year old employee of Wyatt Telecom, decides to hack into the company's database in order to get the necessary authorization to throw an executive level retirement party for Jonesie on the loading dock. When discovered and threatened with criminal prosecution and a possible prison term by Arnold Meacham, Corporate Director of Security, Adam's impromptu excuse so impresses both Meacham and CEO Nick Wyatt that they offer him an alternative, become a Wyatt spy by obtaining a position with their chief competitor, Trion Systems. Soon, Adam is driving a Porsche, has a gorgeous girlfriend, a wonderful apartment and is special assistant to Trion CEO Jock Goddard. Adam is surprised by how talented he has become and the insight which he has developed based on the coaching from Wyatt operatives and the inside information which they can feed him.<br />Eventually, however, Adam comes to respect Goddard and his honesty and business acumen and develops complete disdain for Nick Wyatt and his cutthroat and often unethical competitive tactics. In fact, Adam realizes that Goddard has come to view Adam as a replacement for the son who Goddard tragically lost. But when Adam threatens to stop spying on Trion and providing information to Wyatt, he finds that he is sinking further into the quicksand and is forced to engage in extremely risky actions in order to extricate himself. And the sands are continually shifting beneath his feet, as each layer of reality is gradually peeled away to reveal another problem for Adam to confront. And then, BOOM, without providing a spoiler the ending turns everything on its head once again as almost all the loose ends are wrapped up except for the most important one, the future direction of Adam's life and career.<br /> Joseph Finder is a tremendously talented author who obviously did a lot of research with regard to the current state of technological innovation, corporate governance and the financing and acquisition policies of high tech firms. Furthermore, he throws in some informative tidbits, such as Goddard's choice of the name \\"the ship of Theseus\\" for his \\"perfectly restored 1949 Buick Roadmaster\\". Then the applicability of that phrase to the car is suddenly transformed into a discussion of the reference and its symbolism with regard to the possibility of achieving corporate success while retaining personal integrity.  Thus, I enjoyed not only the action in the story, but much of the philosophy inherent in it as well. And I kept trying to figure out if any of the characters were modeled on some of the larger than life corporate personalities who inhabit Silicon Valley.<br />So why not five stars?  Three reasons, the first two minor but the last meaningful to my enjoyment of the book. First, in some cases, the book reads too much like a movie script; action sequences and risks that seem logical in a movie don't always hold up well to the scrutiny of a careful reader. Second, while the details of the ending were clever and consistent with the story, the conclusion was far from a total surprise by the time the book ended. Third and most importantly, the totally cynical portrait of most businessmen and their method of operation disappointed me somewhat. The White Hats were few and far between in this story; it is about business as all out war with little regard for truth and ethics. So, it is very obvious why Adam needs to be paranoid in the corporate world in which he lives.<br />In elaboration, compare the reasons for Adam's PARANOIA with the thoughts expressed by one of the most successful Silicon Valley entrepreneurs of all time, Andy Grove of INTEL, in his masterful book ONLY THE PARANOID SURVIVE. That book wonderfully outlines Grove's reasons for continual PARANOIA in the battle for corporate survival and dominance, but they relate to the difficulty of recognizing the necessity of taking the huge business risks required in order to meet competitive threats from new technologies that potentially represent transformational paradigms. Thus, Grove is paranoid that he will delay crucial decisions because of risk aversion or lack of insight and let others gain competitive advantage, not that he has to recruit capable corporate spies in order to outflank his competition. I believe that this is the kind of PARANOIA which actually drives the best corporate managements, rather than the kind described in this book. But Joe Finder can write and PARANOIA is still a HIGHLY RECOMMENDED READ!<br />Disclaimer: While I have not read any of the author's previous books, I have seen the movie HIGH CRIMES and enjoyed it immensely. Thus, I was pleased when I was contacted by the author and furnished an advance review copy of this book based upon my interest in this genre as evidenced by my previous reviews of similar books. I have no relationship and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher, and furnished no guarantee that I would even submit a review. If anything, in order to prove my objectivity I perhaps presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve. Nevertheless, people in my business have belatedly learned too much disclosure is preferable to not enough, so this disclaimer is offered in that spirit - especially since this book encourages PARANOIA with regard to the real motives of the individuals involved.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-01-14
US	50223242	R23KRY80L2Z8E5	1588515710	861591817	Spine	Books	3	4	6	N	N	(3 1/2) The Voice of Experience from a Promising New Author	Segments of this book had the feel of deep personal experience; at least some elements seemed based on the author's reactions to some intense personal experiences if not directly autobiographical. At times the character development and various incidents that occur within the story seem so realistic that I would have guessed that the author had been a teacher even if the book jacket had not confirmed my suspicion. My reactions were complex, and I will describe them and the reasons for my rating after providing a brief overview of the story (which due to its nature will unfortunately only do it partial justice).<br />The story is set in Careytown, PA, in many ways the embodiment of rural America. The opening chapter introduces us to several of the main characters, Grayson Lord (the narrator at times), an English teacher at the local high school; Clipper Ostrander, Lord's newsboy and a student at the high school; Sy, Clipper's aged beagle and the object of the aggression of Asa Aftanas, a new resident in town who will be a senior when the new school year starts. The opening incident is both intense and foreboding, and in some ways sets the theme for the remainder of the story by foreshadowing the breakdown in both educational standards and the gradual circumscribing of the ability of educators to exert their authority without concern for both political and legal challenges. The next several chapters present an interesting juxtaposition in tone and pace to the novel's start, as we are gradually introduced to the town itself and many of its inhabitants, including several of the faculty members, one of them history teacher George Nesbitt, Lord's closest friend and in some ways the most pivotal character in the story.<br />We gradually learn  about the conflicts among faculty members and other schisms within the town, including a sect led by the Reverend Millard Touchstone. Several themes are interwoven very cleverly, including Lord's sexual proclivities, the state of education in rural America today, Lord's and Nesbitt's friendship, and the personal stories of several of their students. Meanwhile, in the background  is always the potential for evil represented by Asa Aftanas and his father Randy, especially following a classroom confrontation between Lord and Asa which has great ramifications for all the elements of the town's educational system: the school principal, the superintendent of schools and the school board itself. Faced with his almost certain dismissal as a teacher and his dissatisfaction with his life, George Nesbitt suddenly disappears just before final exams and the story once again turns into a mystery and the reader is drawn to the inescapable conclusion that the question is no longer whether or not this story will have a happy ending, but instead whether or not justice will be served. After so many individuals have acted so spinelessly, in the end whose character will exhibit some SPINE?<br />This is at times a very powerful story in two respects, both in the sense of place and character that it evokes and also in the underlying questions of morality which it addresses. Given the author's use of wonderful verbal imagery at times, his character delineation, and especially his comments about the educational system, I wish that I felt that it deserved five stars and I hope that his next effort sufficiently builds on his literary strengths so that it does. I loved Lord's discussion with school board member Serena Cantor about educational philosophy and governance, and his summary that perhaps schools are abusing children \\"now in a silent fashion that makes a lot of the adults feel good\\" by not imposing educational standards or doing more to alter unacceptable and ultimately counterproductive behavior. But that discussion is indicative of the apparently dual goals of the author both to write an interesting mystery, in which case it is almost a digression, and also a \\"year in the life of story\\" about education in smalltown America. I found the myriad of characters hard to remember and the first part of the story interesting but far from compelling. I wanted the story lines to come together and the action to proceed; thus the strengths of the book and its weaknesses were inextricably linked. <br />But the storyline does proceed to a well thought out conclusion where all the various threads are cleverly and logically brought together in a satisfying although purposely ambiguous ending that lets each reader reach his own conclusions regarding whether the degree of SPINE finally exhibited was appropriate. Thus your enjoyment of this book will be highly conditioned by your interests and expectations. However, as long as you understand the somewhat split  nature of its appeal I would encourage you to read it with one final caveat: as in so many books published  by second tier presses, there are a significant number of minor editing oversights, but they do not rise to the level of being a major annoyance to the reader as I have found them to be on occasion in other efforts by lesser known authors. <br />Disclaimer: In the interest of full disclosure, I was furnished a review copy of this book by the author based upon my interest in this genre as evidenced by my previous reviews of similar books. As is the case with many authors published by second tier presses with small promotional budgets, he is hopeful that a wider base of reviewers might stimulate additional interest in his book. I have no relationship and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher, and furnished no guarantee that I would even submit a review. If anything, in order to prove my objectivity I perhaps presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve. Nevertheless, people in my business have belatedly learned too much disclosure is preferable to not enough, so this addendum is offered in that spirit.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-01-08
US	50223242	R3IVRY50Q2DP49	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	(4 1/2) Why Does this Book Begin with Chapter Two ?	This is a story whose narrator is Christopher Boone, a fifteen year old autistic boy who lives in Swindon, England and attends a school for &quot;special needs&quot; children. Christopher begins the narration by describing his discovery of the dead body of the recently killed poodle, Wellington, who belonged to his friend Mrs. Shears. After a misunderstanding and minor altercation with a policeman (due to Christopher's autism), he decides to solve the mystery of Wellington's murder and his detective investigation is to form the basis of the book which he has decided to write. (He has read several Sherlock Holmes mysteries and thus is familiar with the methods employed by detectives.)  <br />The early chapters are cleverly written so that Christopher introduces us to himself, his family and neighbors, his school and favorite teacher Siobhan, and the nature of autism. We learn how Christopher's mind works, and while in other circumstanes several of the chapters might seem like digressions, this presentation is such that in fact they provide the basis for the remainder of the book. As Christopher discusses why he cannot lie, lists his behavioral problems, and compares his mind to a DVD recorder, the reader is  provided a wonderful understanding of the life of an autistic boy (and the difficulties for those who come into contact with him). And Christopher's encyclopedic knowlege is interesting in it's own right; e.g., I certainly never understood how our brains porocessed visual information during the eye flicks called saccades. I recognize, of course, that one of the reasons why I was so entranced by this book is that Christopher's interests mirror many of my own, e.g., math, logic, Star Trek, etc. As an SF fan, I was delighted to be reminded of the Daleks in the pathbreaking BBC series DOCTOR WHO.<br />But be forewarned, we as readers have been subject to some misdirection and the nature of the story abruptly changes approximately midway through Christopher's narration. (I cannot go into details without in effect introducing a spoiler into this review.) The story is no longer simply about Christopher's life with his father in Swindon and the search for Wellington's killer, but instead about events that will change Christopher's life forever. His plans to become the first student from his school to sit for A-level maths and apply to University will be disrupted, and he will have to adapt to situations in which his autism is very disrutive and counterproductive. While this half of the book was extremely effective in providing many insights regarding how autistic individuals react to stress, I found myself much less enthralled by the narration and much more caught up in concern for Christopher and his well-being (as the author no doubt intended).<br />So, in summary, I highly recommend this novel and believe that reading a story from the perspective of an autistic person will undoubtedly be a unique and rewarding experience for most individuals. And before you proceed too far into the story you will discover why it begins with chapter 2 and ends with chapter 233 but has only fifty-one chapters. (My recommendation is despite the fact that the ending seemed a little too contrived and feel good, which in most circumstances would have caused me to round down my rating).<br />READER ALERT: There is one error in this book which I would like to highlight. When Christopher discusses a math/logic problem which he labels THE MONTY HALL PROBLEM, he uses it to illustrate how complicated numbers are and why he likes them. But in this case the problem was so complicated that both Christopher and the noted Marilyn vos Savant (who he references) arrive at the wrong answer. (I will blame the author for this error, since he is not a mathematician.) The solution can be addressed in three different ways: first, by utilizing conditional probabilty theory, second,by calculating the joint probabilties of the events, or, third, by a logic diagram, but thetwo solutions provided in the book are both flawed because they treat the sequence of events as independent when they are not. Thus, the intuitive answer which Christopher rejects is in fact correct. However, while this temporarily distracted me from the story it did not detract from my enjoyment of the book; and it was the only factual error which I discovered in the areas of Christopher' s knowledge with which I was conversant.<br />Tucker Andersen	2004-01-05
US	50223242	RG2DNCH4KWITN	0465054803	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	(4 1/2)  A  Mathematician Learns A Hard Lesson	Alternate titles which I considered for this review of the book by the well known  professor John Allen Paulos were: <BR>\\"A Survey Course in Investment Theory\\", or<BR>\\"Don't Confuse Intelligence with Insight\\", or<BR>\\"How Smart People Do Dumb Things\\" or even,<BR>\\"A Little Knowledge is a Dangerous Thing'.<br />This book is really two separate literary endeavors, and while they are intertwined the first forms the platform for the second. In some ways, the book needs a bifurcated review, since it suffers from seemingly being directed at multiple audiences. The basis of the book is Paulos' cautionary story of his disastrous flirtation with the stock of Worldcom during the final phase of the \\"market bubble\\" in 2000 and 2001. The tale is remarkable only for the fact that it proves that knowledge and intelligence may be necessary conditions for avoiding investment disaster but they are far from sufficient (as logicians would say). A very smart college professor suffered exactly the same sort of disastrous losses in the stock market as many other traders and investors who forgot to balance risk and reward or let greed overwhelm fear in the constant tug-of-war between those opposing emotions. Paulos uses this tale, whose various aspects are interspersed throughout the book, as the basis of a very interesting discussion of many aspects of investment theory. There is also an excellent bibliography for those readers who are interested in pursuing some of the ideas which he discusses.<br />The author presents an excellent discussion of the intersection of mathematics and psychology  (with some economic and business theory added) that is comprehensive enough to provide readers with a solid basis for understanding market fundamentals. He also discusses stock picking techniques and strategies, including the differences between fundamental and technical analysis. And his discussion of such topics as The Efficient Market Hypothesis, Chaos Theory and Expected Value are rigorous yet understandable. Unfortunately, the strong point of the book will undoubtedly be its major weakness for many readers. That is, it elucidates the theoretical underpinnings of the current state of academic research with regard to investment theory in a very understandable fashion, but except for the cautionary impact of his personal tale and some general investment guidelines which emanate from the material presented, there is little here of practical help to an individual investor. (As a student of the market and former managing partner of an investment firm, I found the book very enjoyable. It succeeded in filling in some gaps in my knowledge base and in some cases reminded me of lessons that I had forgotten.)  So, if you are looking for an interesting in-depth introduction to some aspects of the mathematics and psychology of investment theory written in a very entertaining manner, this book is highly recommended and my four star rating is appropriate. (I should probably caution that my approach was to read a chapter at a time, since that gave me time to reflect upon the material rather than losing it's impact by immediately proceeding to a new concept.) However if you are looking for light reading or a practical investment handbook, then this book may disappoint you.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-12-30
US	50223242	R1DXD2EEXM5S0E	075969222X	334045570	The CIRCLE of SODOM: A Gripping New Thriller	Books	4	5	8	N	N	(4-) A Captivating  Plot by an Author with Great Potential	This is the first novel by Pat Mullan, who is the author of a  previously published a book of  poems (CHILDHOOD HILLS). It follows the form of a classic action thriller with a political backdrop, and the author successfully engages the reader right from the opening paragraph. The prologue is a mysterious surgery performed on an unknown Army Colonel in a Mash unit in Korea in 1975 that was witnessed by Owen MacDara, who was then sworn to secrecy regarding all details of the event.<br />The story is then resumed twenty four years later; MacDara is the head of the firm which he co-founded in 1984, Global Management Associates, an incredibly successful financial advisory firm. MacDara still meets monthly at his favorite bar in NYC with three of his Army buddies, but on this day tragedy will strike as one of them is killed in an apparently random killing in the topless bar which the dead man owned. While MacDara is still sitting at Costelloes (their meeting place) in shock, a picture appears on the TV screen that reminds him of that long ago night in Korea and makes him wonder if his friend's killing was not the random event that it seemed but in some way connected to the current political  situation in our nation's capitol. As Owen attempts to unravel the truth concerning his friend's murder, he becomes involved with operatives at the highest levels of government. Further murders occur, and both his life and the government itself appear to be increasingly threatened as the story races ahead. The almost obligatory romantic thread is also interwoven into the story, but not in an entirely credible manner. (The way the romantic angle is handled is one of my mild criticisms, as it is used as a device by the author to increase the suspense and introduce some elements of the plot but is somewhat unconvincing under the circumstances in which MacDara finds himself.)<br />Overall, this was a fast paced story with the elements of a good plot and an interesting hero in Owen MacDara(who is undoubtedly destined for greater exploits in the next book by the author). And I really liked the technique the author utilized of  indicating the time and date of each segment of the story, which both kept the reader informed and also added to the sense of urgency as the pace quickened. Furthermore, the use of multiple narrators both to tell the story and also to provide historical background was handled much more adroitly than similar attempts by other authors with whom I am familiar.<br />So, why not a five star rating like many other reviewers? Least importantly, while the editing was much superior to most books from second tier publishers, there were some typos but more annoyingly some minor errors that should have been caught.  <BR>(E.g. the description of the stock market panic during one scene included the phrase that \\"The Dow Jones has hit an all time low\\" which was a gratuitous exaggeration that only serves to annoy a reader familiar with financial markets.) More importantly, this sense of unnecessary exaggeration and unreality pervades several critical segments of the story.  I have already mentioned the nature of the romantic involvement between MacDara and a key character, but more disconcerting is the way in which the MacDara repeatedly esxapes danger in a manner reminiscent more of Superman than a real life individual, even one of his extraordinary ability. Finally, in an attempt to further the plot and explain the motivation of the conspirators confronted by MacDara, many of the characters seem more like caricatures than real life individuals. Thus, paradoxically since my complaint concerning most novels of this genre is that the authors are too verbose (especially Clancy),  this book needed to be somewhat longer in order for the plot to proceed in a more believable fashion and for many of the characters  to be more fully developed. <br />In summary, while I recommend this novel, my criticisms are the reason that I did not give it a higher rating. I agree with several reviewers who have suggested that it would make an excellent movie, since the storyline is exciting and may of the details which bothered me would be inconsequential or even nonexistent given the inevitable limitations concerning such details in any film version. Finally, I suspect a speed reader or others who read only for plot would probably not be bothered by the factors that I mentioned and might well find this to be a five star read.<br />Disclaimer: In the interest of full disclosure, I was furnished a review copy of this book by the author based upon my interest in this genre as evidenced by my previous reviews of similar books. As is the case with many authors published by second tier presses with small promotional budgets, he is hopeful that a wider base of reviewers might stimulate additional interest in his book. I have no relationship and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher, and furnished no guarantee that I would even submit a review. If anything, in order to prove my objectivity I perhaps presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve. Nevertheless, people in my business have belatedly learned too much disclosure is preferable to not enough, so this addendum is offered in that spirit.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-12-29
US	50223242	RTS585C2Q5LR7	0743250346	773909635	The Frumious Bandersnatch (Mcbain, ed)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Most Difficult Review I've Ever Composed	I have been a great fan of the award winning author Ed McBain/Evan Hunter ever since discovering his talent for police procedurals in THE BIG BAD CITY. I have read all the books published since then in the 87th Precinct series, as well as several of the earlier ones and various other works by him including one of the Matthew Hope series. And recently I was delighted to find a first edition of ANOTHER PART OF THE CITY while browsing in a used book store. While anyone as successful and prolific as McBain has certain formulaic elements in his work, I have enjoyed all of his novels that I have read and have been intrigued by the character development that both provides continuity and creates the interest of familiarity for his readers. In this context, THE FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH is in many ways THE BEST OF ALL OF HIS WORKS THAT I HAVE READ. (It certainly has the most distinctive and enigmatic title.) <br />As always in this series, the outline of the story is very simple; it is the author's execution of the storyline that makes these police procedurals so enjoyable. THE FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH is a new song to be released by Bison records featuring an unknown but incredibly talented and gorgeous new artist, Tamar Valparaiso. The lyrics are straight from Lewis Carroll, and as with much of what he wrote they are subject to many levels of interpretation. In an attempt to gain the maximum amount of publicity, Barney Loomis, the impresario owner of the Bison label, has decided to launch the debut of the album and incredibly suggestive video with a celebrity cruise to be covered by Honey Blair of Channel Four news (familiar to readers of McBain's previous books). However, Tamar's performance is interrupted by two AK-47 toting masked men wearing Saddam Hussein and Yassir Arafat masks who abduct her and disappear in a waiting motor launch.<br />Through a twist of fate, Steve Carella of the 87th gets the case, but is soon forced to coordinate with an FBI task force when the kidnapping becomes incredibly high profile due a combination of the power of Tamar's video performance and the fact that Channel Four actually is continually broadcasting their footage of the actual abduction. We know who the kidnappers are, it is a question of whether their ransom demands will be met, what Tamar's fate will be, and how the police and joint task force will proceed. Several of the familiar members of the force play a role as the investigation proceeds, including among others Kling, Andy Parker and Lieutenant Brynes. And there are several references to previous cases and even a cameo appearance by the Reverend Gabriel Foster when a suggestion of racism with regard to the case rears its ugly head. <br />Most importantly, there is a parallel track in the story regarding Ollie Weeks (featured in FAT OLLIE'S BOOK) and his relationship with Patricia Gomez. While this element seems superfluous or at best background, it is is used by McBain in an incredibly clever fashion to comment on his craft and the story that is unfolding in this book. I can't discuss this at length without spoiling the plot, but Ollie finds that in some ways he has been the victim of misdirection just as Carella and the readers have been. The other element that was somewhat unique to this book was how McBain used the lyrics of the video and Tamar's performance to examine and implicitly criticize the current nature of the music industry. Usually his plots are much more local, individual and often prosaic. Once I got involved in the story (which took me a few chapters), I understood the reason that he spent so much time analyzing the lyrics of the song. This has more universal themes than the fictional island of Isola (which as readers know bears a striking resemblance to Manhattan). The story is interesting and has several very clever elements, it is a fast read, I really admired the juxtaposition of Ollie's discussions with Patricia with Carella's progress on the kidnapping case, there was sufficient misdirection to keep me interested, and the stuff about the music industry is brilliant. So why was this review so difficult to write? Because there are two points that I feel need to be made that are very difficult to   state without including a spoiler. I will try to make them in as general a way as possible, but warn readers that they might not want to read the next paragraph. For reasons that I explain below, these points also made me hesitate before giving this book a five star rating, but in the end I decided the author deserved one  since it was a wonderful read and he certainly accomplished his objectives. <br />BEWARE: this paragraph contains some general comments that might be regarded as spoilers. My first criticism is that in some ways the outcome here is totally predictable, in a general sense it is actually what I expected and many readers will guess after the first few chapters, but the misdirection was good enough and the story engaging enough so that I kept reading and enjoyed most of the book. My second criticism is much more personal. My enjoyment of the book was severely set back by the outcome of the case. (The story ending itself was totally in keeping with McBain's usual style.) Perhaps I was more affected than usual by the death during the conclusion of the case of someone that McBain had caused me to know and respect because I finished the story on Christmas Night and certainly did not feel good about the ending. But I think that it was more than that; in most police procedurals the victims have alredy been murdered and while we gradually become acquainted with them we know that they are already dead; this is supposedly a kidnapping case, and the tragedy occurs near the end. While I knew that it was inevitable that someone would die (guns everywhere) I was very shocked by the suddenness and nature of the death. Still five stars and high praise! But if the characters in a novel come alive for you as they do for me, you will mourn thedeceased.	2003-12-26
US	50223242	R227WFPQGBXZ9J	0142002399	261421472	The Shape of Water	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Five Star Ending for the First Inspector Montalbano Story	This is the first book in a series of police procedurals featuring the Italian Detective Salvo Montalbano. The series has become very popular in Europe and has been the basis for an Italian television series, so Viking decided to purchase the American rights and publish an English language version. It has been translated from the original Italian in a pleasing manner by Stephen Sartarelli, an American poet and translator. (Since I have no familiarity with Italian, I cannot vouch for the accuracy of the translation, and whether the stylistic and linguistic differences from American police procedurals are a function of the translation or a faithful reflection of the original text.) This book was originally published in Italy in 1994 but was first published in the US in 2002. Subsequently, three additional volumes in the series have been translated and published here very quickly. <br />Inspector Montalbano is awakened by a phone call from his Sargeant to inform him that they have a new client, a local big shot politician named Silvio Lupanello. That Lupanello is now their \\"client\\" means that Lupanello's dead body has been discovered and it is up to them to investigate the circumstances surrounding his demise. And the manner of his death coupled with his position in the community lends both some urgency and some delicacy to their task, since he has been discovered in the passenger seat of his parked car with his pants down around his knees in a section of town frequented by prostitutes and others engaged in various unsavory and illegal activities. Because the coroner finds no evidence of foul play and there are obvious political ramifications, Montalbano's superiors want him to quickly close the case, but there a few loose ends that trouble both him and also the victim's wonderfully portrayed widow. <br />As  the investigation proceeds, the contradictions deepen. If this sounds like Peter Falk's portrayal of Columbo in the long running TV series, in many ways it is. However, there is more profanity, and Montalbano's character idiosyncrasies are fully developed. He is equally adept at enjoying the merits of a good meal or discussing the book WESTERN ATTITUDES TOWARDS DEATH. There is some wonderful humor, and I was gradually drawn into the story line as several various threads were woven together after a somewhat slow beginning. I was very surprised and pleased by the somewhat unexpected but appropriate solution which cleverly tied together all the disparate elements of the case which had been unearthed by Montalbano. This is really a first rate ending, which is one of the most important elements to a successful police procedural. And woven throughout the story are some elements of the detective's romantic involvement as well. In addition, this is an easy book to read. It is short, the story is told in an uncomplicated manner, and there is a short section of notes at the back of the book to explain references to Italian currency, political structure, etc. that may be unfamiliar to Americans. The setting is a fictional town in Sicily, so there is no need for any reader familiarity with specific geographic detail. Another nice feature is  the fact that this is one of those Penguin soft covers that really are pocket sized, so they conveniently fit in a corner of your bag or coat pocket and are easy to read on the train or plane. Finally, you will have to read the book to find out what is THE SHAPE OF WATER and why it is the perfect title for this book, I won't reveal the secret here.<br />While I was contacted by an employee of the publisher and asked to review the most recent book in the series, I wanted to introduce myself to the character as the author intended and decided to read the first volume to determine if the series was of interest to me. Based on my enjoyment of this story, I definitely plan to further enjoy following Detective Montalbano as he attempts to solve additional cases. As a disclaimer, I know no one employed bythe publisher and have had no contact with either the author or translator. However, I believe it appropriate to disclose that as is customary I was furnished a review copy of this book but I did not provide any assurance that I would produce a review or what its contents would be if I did so.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-12-18
US	50223242	R1MFC8MDOKXSIJ	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	5	3	5	N	N	(4 1/2) A Delightful Christmas Fantasy	The numerous reviews already posted for this delightful book by John Grisham clearly obviate the need for me to weigh in with my comments. Nevertheless, I have decided that there is such a wide diversity of opinion that I might as well add my voice to the mix and hopefully provide a slightly different perspective that perhaps might be of value to a potential purchaser. Several summary points - first, this is not at all a typical Grisham book, it is more a novella than a novel and a satire/ comedy that expands the range of his accomplishments as a writer. (In the latter regard but not in tone it is similar to BLEACHERS - see review of  10/6/03.) Second, while it is very engaging and there are certainly some moments of tension, it is light and easy reading - only 177 pocket book sized packages. Third, it encompasses a wide range of emotions but is a feel good story exploring the meaning of Christmas, the complexity of our interpersonal relationships and the unexpected twists of fate. Last, some aspect of the story will undoubtedly provoke a spark of recognition in most readers regarding some similar incident in their own lives.<br />The plot is simplicity itself -  Thanksgiving weekend Blair Krank waves goodbye to her parents (Luther and Nora) and boards a plane to begin her service as a Peace Corps volunteer in Peru.  Nora is consumed with worry about her daughter's safety, and Luther soon realizes that the family's Christmas routine of the past twenty-three years has now been completely altered. Being an accountant, Luther soon performs a cost/benefit analysis and reaches the conclusion that the costs of Christmas (financial combined with the psychological and physical stress) outweigh the benefits, especially given Blair's absence. Therefore, he plots how to convince Nora that they should consider SKIPPING CHRISTMAS and enjoy a holiday cruise instead. While she is initially resistant, they eventually agree and plan to avoid the usual Christmas routine (parties, gifts, decorations, etc.) and instead prepare for their holiday respite.<br />However, Luther soon finds that he has forgotten the other side of the ledger and there are hidden costs to forgoing their Christmas celebration and some overlooked benefits of the usual routine. While a few of Luther's associates are supportive and he suspects many more are secretly envious, Nora's friends view their decision with suspicion and she remains very ambivalent about their plans. Also, they become neighborhood outcasts as their yard remains devoid of decorations and (as depicted on the bookjacket) their rooftop alone on Hemlock Street remains without Frosty the Snowman to celebrate the season. And just when it seems they have successfully overcome all hurdles and their departure is within sight, as is often the case fate takes one last unexpected twist.<br />Any doubts about the tone and message of this book should be dispelled at the very beginning; after all, who except a Krank would decide not to celebrate Christmas? And yet, there is undoubtedly some aspect of the decision to which every reader can relate. And the ending was close to perfect, with the outcome reflecting the human condition and our relationships very poignantly. The final two brief sentences captured the ambivalence of the book extremely well. The book can be read during a plane or train trip or while relaxing during a winter evening, and its cleverness and Grisham's ability to perfectly capture the essence of the character types involved caused me to round up my rating to five stars despite its brevity and its lack of any true surprises.<br />As an aside, I also recommend David Baldacci's THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN (review 11/20/02) as another out-of-type story by another well known author for any readers who want a delightful and uplifting Christmas story with a somewhat more complex plot and less predictable storyline.<br />Tucker Andersents, decorations, etc.) and instead prepare for their holiday respite. <br />However, Luther soon finds that he has forgotten the other side of the ledger and there are hidden costs to forgoing their Christmas celebration and some overlooked benefits of the usual routine. While a few of Luther's associates are supportive and he suspects many more are secretly envious, Nora's friends view their decision with suspicion and she remains very ambivalent about their plans. Also, they become neighborhood outcasts as their yard remains devoid of decorations and (as depicted on the bookjacket) their rooftop alone on Hemlock Street remains without Frosty the Snowman to celebrate the season. And just when it seems they have successfully overcome all hurdles and their departure is within sight, as is often the case fate takes one last unexpected twist.<br />Any doubts about the tone and message of this book should be dispelled at the very beginning; after all, who except a Krank would decide not to celebrate Christmas? And yet, there is undoubtedly some aspect of the decision to which every reader can relate. And the ending was close to perfect, with the outcome reflecting the human condition and our relationships very poignantly. The final two brief sentences captured the ambivalence of the book extremely well. The book can be read during a plane or train trip or while relaxing during a winter evening, and its cleverness and Grisham's ability to perfectly capture the essence of the character types involved caused me to round up my rating to five stars despite its brevity and its lack of any true surprises.<br />As an aside, I also recommend David Baldacci's THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN (review 11/20/02) as another out-of-type story by another well known author for any readers who want a delightful and uplifting Christmas story with a somewhat more complex plot and less predictable storyline.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-12-11
US	50223242	R1BUTHLC4ABMHL	0399151397	851299406	The Hanged Man's Song (Kidd and LuEllen)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	(4 ) Kidd's and Luellen's Lives Changed Forever !	I am an avid John Sandford reader and Lucas Davenport fan but the Kidd series is my favorite. Since there have been relatively few books featuring Kidd, I was delighted to see the publicity for this book until I read on the book jacket that Bobby's murder and its ramifications form the central element of the plot. Bobby has been such an essential supporting character in the previous books that I was afraid that the author had chosen this method to end the series and thus my enjoyment of this story might be bittersweet. While it is always disappointing to say goodbye to an old literary acquaintance such as Bobby, Kidd fans should be relieved that the ending holds out the possibility that the series will continue. But beware, Kidd and Luellen will be forever changed.<br />The story is very simple, superhacker Bobby, Kidd's online lifeline and friend, goes silent and when Kidd and a friend assemble the clues that reveal Bobby's physical location (they have known him only in cyberspace), they discover that he has been murdered.  Ominously, Bobby's laptop has been stolen and Bobby's circle of friends are very worried about what secrets might be revealed (including clues to their identities) if the encryption is cracked.  Therefore, they have the dual goal of avenging Bobby's death and protecting themselves as well. Soon, secrets from Bobby's laptop start becoming public that involve powerful people, strike at the heart of government, and increase the risks to all concerned; thus their quest becomes a race against time. This is the quintessential Kidd, a libertarian loner with his own agenda, operating on both sides of the law and torn between his artistic impulses and his computer skills. And, as usual, his sometime partner (in crime and romance) who he knows only by her alias of Luellen figures in the action as the puzzle gradually unravels.And we are left with Kidd to puzzle out the identity and the meaning of the Hanged Man who keeps appearing in the Tarot spreads which he does to attempt to stimulate his insights about the problems which they encounter.   <br />As Kidd and Luellen match wits with Jimmy James Carp, we see the ambiguities that develop when combating evil; at times they have to decide whether the ends justify some questionable means. This is a fast paced story that I found hard to put down, and I suspect that we may meet Rachel Willowby (the young hacker whose role is crucial to the story) if there are future sequels in this series. So the story raises many questions, from whether Bobby's death will be avenged to such existential musings as whether people are really dead if elements of their lives continue to exist. As Luellen muses about Bobby \\"he's like Janis Joplin... I heard ME AND BOBBY MCGEE on the radio... Janis is dead, but I never knew her personally, and I keep hearing her song so to me, it's the same as if she is still alive...\\" Can Bobby's computer keep him alive, or can Lemon (whoever he may be) successfully become his successor? And, you may even discover Luellen's real name.<br />I rated this slightly less than a full five stars for two reasons. First, a few loose ends were not satisfactorily tied up. Second, it had a few incidences of some pretty gruesome violence and very unpleasant situations. (However, they were relatively integral to the story.) But, it was a great read and I loved the existentialism and ambiguity of the ending, which cries for a sequel.<br />The one caveat I would provide is that while this is a self contained story, a reader will have much more depth of understanding of Kidd's and Bobby's (and Kidd's and Luellen's relationships) and of some of the references if the previous books in the series are read first. (Even though computer technology has changed so rapidly that some of the stuff is now obsolete.) This is especially true of the immediately preceding book THE DEVIL'S CODE, especially re: the identity of the man known as Bill Clinton. I believe that at a minimum that book should be read first, and it is as good a story as this one.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-12-11
US	50223242	R8BPK88KVO95W	0970548540	216729205	Saving Lives & Saving Money	Books	4	56	62	N	Y	Worthwhile Ideas and References That Need Editing	This book was written by former Speaker Gingrich and his associates for several reasons. First, to lay out the case in Chapter 2 \\"why reforming healthcare is doomed to fail and only a process of [completely] transforming health and healthcare can succeed\\". Second, to provoke a national debate and evolve a strategy for the solution one of the greatest potential political and budget crises of the early part of this century as the baby boomers reach retirement age and Medicare's unfunded liabilities skyrocket. And last, to provide examples of \\"transforming methodologies\\" that are actually being successfully utilized today and references to other information sources (including many web sites). He firmly believes that is possible to achieve the twin goals summarized in the book's title and have better health care while spending less at the same time.<br />This book posits that the single greatest problem (but by no means the only one) with our current healthcare system is the third party payor system that has arisen from the perverse incentives introduced into the tax code that have made employer provided healthcare the dominant organizational methodology in our country today. The effects of these incentives are exacerbated by the increasing share of medical spending being reimbursed through the government Medicare and Medicaid programs. Consumers of healthcare are frustrated because their choices are limited; providers are frustrated by the bureaucracy, paperwork and interference with their medical judgment as well as the lack of tort reform; and the funders (taxpayers and employers) are horrified by the rate of increase in their costs. One of the unintended consequences of these incentives is that the system treats illness much more effectively than it promotes health and personal responsibility for the consequences of your actions. <br />The book contains many interesting insights on the role of technology, not only in the administration and provision of more responsive service by providers and in recordkeeping that minimizes duplication of effort and decreases the prevalence of errors but also in the furthering of scientific advances themselves. The frontier of medical and scientific discovery today is at the intersection of chemistry, physics and biotechnology, and chapter nine provides some observations in this regard. The overall tone of the book is both urgent and hopeful, as the author clearly understands the huge political difficulties in changing such a complex system with so many different constituencies.<br />This book definitely a worthwhile read for anyone interested in a broadbrush approach by a serious student of the subject with the perspective that the author brings to the topic. However, the book suffers from some flaws. First, it is a collection of loosely connected chapters. They are somewhat sequential but can stand on their own. The disadvantage of this approach is that there is an incredible amount of repetitive material if one reads the whole book. While the emphasis of some of the points is appropriate, this is a mix of anecdotes, exhortation, well thought out proposals, interesting information, and moral outrage at the consequences of the perverse incentives of our current system (unnecessary death and suffering). Second, the former Speaker lapses into his habit of occasionally getting so excited about the potential impact of something that he believes it is necessary to mandate it at the federal level (e.g. an immediately accessible computerized database of all medical information for each individual) despite all the evidence that this will stifle creativity and curb further beneficial evolutionary developments. In addition to the very negative implications for our liberty.) Third and most discouraging, he proposes very large increases in federal spending in several areas, indicating his belief in market failure and his lack of faith that individuals and private industry will make the appropriate choices with regard to such areas as funding basic research, preventive treatment for diabetes, etc. Such suggestions seem at odds with the basic premise of this book, i.e, that informed consumers with the appropriate knowledge deserve the maximum amount of flexibility in their healthcare choices and need to accept as much personal responsibility in their consumption of healthcare as in other areas of their lives. Thus, while I want to encourage widespread readership of this book and discussion of its ideas, it does not deserve five stars.<br />Disclaimer: the author is a personal friend of mine, but he never requested that I review it and my copy was purchased at this site, not provided free to me. I serve on the Board of Directors of an organization which he once headed, and healthcare reform is one area that we both agree is crucial to our country's future, although we disagree on many aspects of various proposed reforms. We agree in the areas of public policy where my libertarian ideals intersect with his conservative principles, while strongly disagreeing in such areas as the decriminalization of many currently illegal substances. I believe that my review is objective with regard to this book but wanted the readers of this review to have all relevant information that might have influenced my recommendation.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-11-21
US	50223242	R2KKE9EXDW51KF	0393057550	467312085	Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville: A Lifelong Passion for Baseball	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Five Star Essays about Baseball and Life	This book should provide plenty of enjoyment for every baseball fan and all the devotees of the late essayist Stephen Jay Gould. While I will touch on the flaws later (because in some ways the totality of this posthumously published collection of Gould's essays is less than the sum of the parts), this is a wonderful book to sample at your leisure. Many of the pieces manage to be thought provoking and incredibly nostalgic at the same time. One of my favorites in this regard was an incredibly brief piece (The Babe's Final Strike) originally published in the NY Times in 1984 regarding the strikeout of Dale Mitchell by Don Larsen to complete the only perfect game in World Series history. It  revived both my memory of watching those final moments on our small black and white TV on October 8, 1956 after arriving home from high school late in the game and also recalled the controversy that raged over the strike three call by Babe Pinelli that both guaranteed Don Larsen a place in the record books and also ensured that particular film clip of Yogi Berra jumping into Larsen's arms the status of perpetual inclusion in world series highlight collections.<br />One of the best pieces in the book is actually the introduction by David Halberstam, a good friend of Gould's, a fellow intellectual, and an ardent baseball fan himself. It is literally the perfect bookend for the last selection in the book, a wonderful reprint of  a long piece in the NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS which manages to incorporate a meaningful summary review of ten diverse  baseball biographies into a discussion of the elemental attraction of baseball, the parallel changes in the sport and our culture while mixing grandiose generalizations with little known facts. In between these two marvelous selections  are pieces as diverse as a lengthy tribute to THE AMAZING DUMMY (about both the often overlooked exploits of Dummy Hoy and also the role of nicknames in baseball)  and FREUD AT THE BALLPARK, a very brief piece about how the author finally came to terms years later with the loss of the 1955 subway series by his beloved Yankees to the hated Brooklyn Dodgers.<br />The book is composed of four sections. The first is REFLECTIONS AND EXPERIENCE, which is comprised of thought pieces about various aspects and events of the game. The second is HEROES LARGE, SMALL, AND FALLEN, which includes pieces on Mickey Mantle, Dusty Rhodes, Mel Allen, Jim Thorpe, Joe Dimaggio and \\"Shoeless Joe\\" Jackson in addition to the selection on Dummy Hoy;  of course all these selections are about much more than the individuals profiled and their impact on the game. The third section is titled NATURE, HISTORY, AND STATISTICS AS MEANING. It examines some of the myths of baseball and such questions as \\"why no one hits .400 any more\\" and whether Joe Dimaggio's 56 game hitting streak really was an achievement in a class by itself. The last section is simply entitled CRITICISM. It is a collection of some of the best topical book reviews which Gould wrote, which are always a taking off point for an elegant discussion of some aspect of the game.<br />Despite the fact that I consider the great majority of the essays in this collection to deserve five star ratings, there are several factors about the book which kept me from rating it five stars. First, with the exception of Halberstam's foreword and Gould's introduction, these are set pieces all of which have appeared elsewhere and thus suffer from repetition of some of the author's favorite musings and ideas. (I suspect that given his death the editors were less ruthless than he would have been about correcting this flaw.) Second, some of the pieces are slightly dated and the reader is left to wonder how Gould would have responded to recent events impacting the sport (e.g. the undoubted effect of questionable substances on the obliteration of power hitting records in such areas as home runs and slugging average). Last, in a collection of this length and this diversity, it is almost inevitable that a few of the selections will suffer in comparison to the best of the group. Even if this reaction is only due to my preferences and prejudices as an individual reader, it still is a factor that influenced my overall reaction to the book. While there are several pieces that I found very memorable and/or educational (some of which I have in fact reread), others seemed only of average quality compared to the work of other good sportswriters. So I heartily recommend the book with the caveat that most readers will probably want to take time to savor some of the pieces while quickly browsing others. But practically everyone will reflect that we are all undoubtedly the richer for the unique insights furnished us by Gould as he managed to combine the knowledge gained from his lifelong career as a paleontologist with his passion for the game of baseball.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-11-21
US	50223242	R21Z226BOMH0IO	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	4	4	8	N	N	(4+) Will the FBI Change Alex Cross ?	The long awaited next book in James Patterson's Alex Cross series is back with Alex now beginning his FBI career after being recruited by the new director Ron Burns. Readers of the series know that Alex has decided it is time to leave the Washington PD and continue his career elsewhere. Despite Alex's trepidations about bureaucracy within \\"The Bureau\\", Burns has convinced Alex that his police instincts and profiling skills would be incredibly useful as Burns tries to achieve the seemingly impossible task of eliminating both the bureaucrats and cowboys from the FBI's ranks. This is typical James Patterson, mostly two to four page chapters, a  rapidly developing plot, minimal character development, and a clever villain with a violent streak. In juxtaposition is the pull of Alex's family, Little Alex, Jannie, Damon and Nana Mama as well as his long distance relationship with Jamilla Hughes. <br />While Alex is involved in his FBI intake orientation and training, a series of widely scattered and very unusual unsolved abductions cause Director Burns to involve Alex in the case, creating enmity within the ranks (including from Alex's superior) due to the special treatment that he receives. There are no ransom demands, and Alex and his associates believe that the victims are being sold and traded as part of a white slave ring operated by wealthy individuals with bizarre and illegal inclinations. When two particularly high profile  kidnappings catch the attention of the media, pressure increases on the FBI to solve the case and (not unexpectedly) a few clues create the suspicion  that a shadowy figure (THE WOLF) whose existence has never been verified by the FBI is at the center of this kidnapping ring. He is reputed to be a former KGB agent who now is head of the Red Mafiya in the US, but there have been no clues to his identity or location. A few breaks create momentum that eventually makes Alex optimistic that they are on the trail of THE BIG BAD WOLF, but of course youknow the villain will create several instances of misdirection and layers of reality for his pursuers to fight through. Meanwhile, Alex's personal world is rocked by the reappearance of Christine Johnson (Little Alex's mother) in DC and her desire to become a part of her child's life despite her (temporary and understandable) abandonment of him given the turmoil that a previous case of Alex's had caused in her life.<br />This is a fastmoving, intricately plotted very fast read - you would be surprised at anything else in an Alex Cross story. And you have the \\"pleasure\\" of seeing Kyle Craig continue to play a (very peripheral ) role in Alex's life. The background element regarding the need to reform the FBI echoes the daily headlines and rings true. While the thread regarding Christine is interesting, there is much less involvement of Alex's family than in several of the other books. There is a great degree of violence, including the sexual incidents which are an integral part of the story, but in most cases the descriptions are very brief, and in only a few cases is there nauseous detail. Besides the obvious pursuit of the WOLF and the discovery of his real identity, the biggest mystery that the reader faces is whether this is a self contained story or whether it will simply be the first installment of several stories regarding the necessity of unraveling the several layers of the WOLF's identity. (You won't find out until the last ten pages.) And at the same time it is not clear whether Alex's complex relationships with Jamilla and Christine will be resolved. The factors that kept this from attaining a five star rating were the even more than usual number of loose ends to the story and the complete lack of any character development at all. I was especially disappointed at the minor role of  Lili Olsen, a fourteen and a half year old (\\"going on twenty-four\\") computer genius whose abilities to hack into web sites help Alex despite the skepticism of his associates. She seemed a wonderful character with a lot of potential, but with the exception of one memorable line she simply disappeared as the story plunged forward. <br />So when you want a quick read for a short flight or a rainy day, you will enjoy this if the Patterson formula appeals to you. But don't expect much detail, and be ready to suspend your belief about the plausibility of many of the events. Certainly not his best, but much more enjoyable than many for me because of the lack of gruesome detail contained in some of his other books.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-11-19
US	50223242	R3EXUU3EO6AWWE	0312319517	604432126	Avenger	Books	5	67	73	N	N	A Thriller Written Like A Jigsaw Puzzle	While AVENGER is not of the superb quality of DAY OF THE JACKAL and perhaps a few of Frederick Forsyth's others novels, it is still an outstanding work of fiction that should be enjoyed immensely by readers who have the patience to follow the author's narrative methodology. But for reasons detailed later in this review, this book is not for everyone. There are several elements to the story, and the author integrates them gradually in a somewhat unusual fashion, so much of the first few sections of the book are descriptions of events which have occurred in the past and which form the basis for the two complicated and interwoven aspects of the plot.<br />Attorney Calvin Dexter is a (superbly conditioned) triathelete who lives an apparently ordinary life in suburban N.J., a local boy raised by a working class father (who had been deserted by Cal's mother) and who returned from an Army tour of duty in Vietnam to earn a college degree and seemingly move on with his life. However, his experience as one of the members of the elite but unknown team of &quot;tunnel rats&quot; has combined with his own personal tragedy to form the basis of his alter ego - THE AVENGER of horrific crimes who can be hired to find and return the perpetrators of such crimes to face justice in a court of law. In a world of moral relativism and frequent lack of accountabilty, he still believes in the concepts of right and wrong, and of the possibility  of justice and the necessity for punishment. In a parallel thread that forms the basis of Cal's next quest, an idealistic young volunteer,Ricky Colenso, disappears while working for an humanitarian aid organization in Serbia during the upheaval caused by the disintegration of Yugoslavia. Unfortunately for Zoran Zilic, the gangster responsible for Ricky's brutal murder while operating under the protection of Milosevic, Ricky's mother is the daughter of Steve Edmond, a Canadian billionaire and injured RAF ace during WWII. Edmond's vast resources and political connections enable him discover the existence (but not the identity) of THE AVENGER, and Edmond manages to contact Cal and interest him in attempting to uncover the truth concerning Rick's disappearance. As Cal verifies the facts of Ricky's murder and the perpetrator, he agrees (anonymously) to accept Edmond's request to capture Zilec and bring him to the United States to stand trial.<br />Two factors complicate Cal's efforts. First, he has to locate Zilic, who became very rich as a dealer in contraband and drugs during the war and subsequentlty disappeared. Second, unknown to Cal, the CIA head of counterterrorism, Paul Devereaux, has recruited Zilic to aid in the CIA's efforts to locate and eliminate an Islamic terrorist named Usama Bin Laden (the story takes place in 2001 pre- September 11.) Thus, as Devereaux learns of the existence of THE AVENGER and his quest (but not his identity), the CIA utilizes all means at its disposal to locate and neutralize Cal in order to protect Zilic as one of its most valuable assets in the wor on terror. (It has in fact helped Zilic relocate to his seemingly impregnable compound in the fictional South American Republic of San Martin.)<br />This is a very methodically organized and well constructed story, but the various threads are only slowly woven together. We are first introduced to Cal, but only gradually learn his history in chapters interspersed with our introduction to Ricky, to Steve Edmond; the the formative events in each of their lives are gradually revealed. Only after the necessary background for the thread that binds their lives together has been provided does the author introduce  Devereaux's history and his personal philosophy regarding his justification that in order &quot;to achieve the greater good&quot; he may have to engage in immoral acts and even allow evil to go unpunished.<br />There are long sections regarding Vietnam and military actions during that war, WWII, the CIA, and other background elements which are crucial to the story but at times read almost like an educational text. There is also incredible detail about Cal's formulation and implementation of his plan, which readers of Forsyth will recognize as one of his trademarks and which serves to prolong the story while making it more believable and increasing the tension. (JACKAL is a wonderful example of this.) However, the conclusion is worth the wait. The outcome is a tribute to Forsyth's narrative skill, although given the complexity of the moral questions raised some readers may disagree with my elation at the ending. Finally,the two page epilog was stunning in its ability to capture the best of the autho's efforts.  <br />So, I highly recommend this book if you want  to read a complicated thriller with a lot of detail. The story emerges gradually as the individual elements are pieced together, just as in the construction of an elaborate jigsw puzzle. And in fact, this analogy applies as well to Cal's attempt to fullfill his mission. But I do have two caveats. First, this book is heavy on history and philosophy and is meant to educate as well as entertain, if you want fast moving action and a linear plot, look elsewhere for your entertainment. Second, there are a few instances of really gruesome events decribed in great detail, especially Ricky's murder and Cal's experiences in Vietnam and his family tragedy. The are close to nauseating, and would normally keep me from reading a book with such sequences or at least cause me to reduce my rating. But because they are elemets crucial to the story and because I hold the author in such high regard, I decided to continue reading and did not reduce my rating. But, be prepared if you are somewhat squeamish; however, their description is as minimalist as possible while still achieving the desired impact and relevance. There is also, of course, the standard violence in such a novel, but that should be anticipated by a reader of this genre.	2003-11-15
US	50223242	RFPHXIDPDZVYS	0446531782	514796291	Private Sector	Books	5	21	22	N	N	(4.5) Another Action Thriller by an Underappreciated Author	I was hooked on Brian Haig's central character JAG lawyer Sean Drummond when I read THE KINGMAKER (five star review of 5/13/03); thus, I resolved to read the earlier books in the series to watch both the character development and changes in the author's technique and style. I subsequently finished SECRET SANCTION (3.5 star review of 7/30/03) and found it enjoyable but not nearly in the same class as THE KINGMAKER. Before I could get to MORTAL ALLIES (#2 in the series), PRIVATE SECTOR was published and I decided to read it before starting the earlier book. I highly recommend both the author and this book, although for reasons summarized at the end of this review (some of which may be entirely personal) I did not find it as completely enjoyable as THE KINGMAKER. But it is a fast moving, excellently plotted, well crafted story and continues the character development of Sean Drummond, who has the potential to be one of the enduring protagonists of this genre.<br />When Major Drummond is notified by his boss, General Clapper, that he is being assigned to the PRIVATE SECTOR law firm Cupler, Hutch, and Westin under a \\"loan out\\" program whose supposed goal is to broaden the experience of the JAG staff while creating goodwill in the public sector, he immediately begins to plot the best method to sabotage the assignment without creating such enmity between himself and Clapper that he effectively terminates his Army career. He realizes that the combination of his natural personality traits should easily be able to be honed to accomplish the task, and immediately begins to alienate those with whom he comes into contact. The one interesting element of the assignment is that Sean is replacing fellow officer Lisa Morrow, whom he has come to know and respect during previous assignments and for whom he harbors a great deal of apparently unrequited affection. When Lisa indicates a desire to meet Sean, he is both curious about what aspects of her experience at Cupler he needs to be briefed and hopeful that she may be more attracted to him than he expected. Unfortunately, their meeting never occurs due to Lisa's apparently random murder in a DC parking lot (this minor spoiler is included because it is revealed on the book jacket) and Sean immediately decides he should supplement the efforts of the DC police and the CID ( the Army's Criminal Investigation Division) in investigating Lisa's death. Since he quickly comes to believe that Lisa's death may be related to Lisa's work at Cupler, he realizes that in order to effectively further his goal of catching Lisa's killer he has remain in the good graces of both the partners of Cupler and General Clapper, not at all an easy task for Sean.<br />As the clich goes, the plot quickly thickens as further increasingly brutal and apparently random murders occur. Meanwhile Sean is involved in helping the firm's largest client, Morris Networks, a telecommunications firm spawned during the financial market and technological excesses of the nineties successfully win a major government contract. He soon suspects that Lisa's death and the other murders might somehow be related to Cupler `s representation of Moriss and it's \\"new economy\\" CEO Jason Morris.  As the story unfolds, there are as usual in Haig's novels many excellent lines from Sean, a well thought out although convoluted plot, and a knowledgeable and quite informative discussion of the latest uses of sophisticated financial instruments and their accounting implications (a la Enron, which is mistakenly referred to as Exxon).<br />This is an enjoyable and well told story; although I had the advantage of understanding the business aspects of the plot the details are not essential to the story. (I also had the disadvantage of knowing enough to be aggravated at his admittedly minor mistakes.) The author did excellent research and his information is essentially correct with regard to both the details and the overview. However, I was disappointed by the anti-corporate tone of the book, there are basically no honorable people either at Morris or Cupler. In addition, Sean's idiosyncratic characteristics actually were a little overdone at times during the early part of the story and stretched cleverness to the edge of inaneness, which bordered on losing credibility. My only major criticism is the technique of writing this story with Sean as the first party narrator but interspersing segments where the killer became the narrator. (There was no confusion when this occurred, it was identified with a change in typeface. I just found it a little disconcerting although I understand the author's reasons for utilizing the technique.) So, I highly recommend this book as a good legal/action mystery by a talented author. You will benefit from reading the earlier books in the series prior to this, but that is not at all necessary. But if you only have time for one Brian Haig book, I recommend THE KINGMAKER instead as a superior read. (It is now in paperback.)<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-11-11
US	50223242	R22H4VSWJMSJZI	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	(4 1/2) A Page turner by an Excellent Storyteller	David Baldacci burst on the scene with his action-adventure novel ABSOLUTE POWER; while his next four books included some elements of mystery they were all basically in the genre of the original work. However, when SAVING FAITH was followed by WISH YOU WELL, an intensely personal story of Applachian hardship and its effect on all the lives that it touched, it was clear that he possessed more versatility as an author than his early work had indicated. He then returned to the action-adventure genre with the successful LAST MAN STANDING, an incredibly suspenseful but overly long story involving the unraveling of a very complicated mystery (four star review of 9/18/02). He then once again demonstrated his versatility with THE CHRISTMAS TRAIN, a delightful novel with marvelous character development in the guise of a mystery (five star review of 11/20/02). SPLIT SECOND returns to his original genre but with sporadic intense action interspersed with a complicated mystery involving two Secret Service agents whose careers were each destroyed in the &quot;SPLIT SECOND&quot; that it took for the presidential candidates whom they were guarding to be the victims of foul play. <br />On September 26th, 1996, Clyde Ritter was killed by an assassin while campaigning for President; that assassin was then immediately shot to death by Agent Sean King. But as Baldacci observes, &quot;three men had actually died that day, and King had been one of them... [but King] had it far worse than the others...they went into their coffins and were forever mourned...after his death his burden was that he had to keep right on living&quot;. Eight years later, King has gradually constructed an &quot;unspectacular&quot; life for himself, but this life is suddenly disrupted by a seies of killings in which he becomes a suspect. At the same time, Agent Michelle Maxwell's Secret Service career is destroyed when John Bruno, the candidate whom she is guarding is mysteriously kidnapped and a fellow agent in her detail murdered by individuals whose motivation is a complete mystery. Michelle becomes obsessed with the simalarities between the Bruno and Ritter incidents and eventually convinces Sean to join forces with her in attemting to locate John Bruno and investigate the highly improbable fact that there is a connection between the recent killings in his community and the events involving Bruno and Ritter. A romantic complication and additional intrigue and plot complications are provided by the appearance of Joan Dillinger, a fellow agent of Scotts who was at the scene of the Ritter assasination and is now working for a private agency hired to find John Bruno.<br />Needless to say, the plot is complicated, and it is often unclear which events are truly connected and what are just surprising coincidences. While I really enjoyed the story and found it hard to put down, it had some flaws which after some deliberation kept me from rating it five stars. First, the narration switched between the first person and the third person, and while the technique was very effective it was irritating at times. Sean King would be the narrator and yet suddenly you would not be privy to certain thoughts that he had or conclusions which he had drawn. Since this was offset by information provided by the author that Sean did not have available, it was like the reader was trying to solve the mystery with different (although overlapping) clues than the characters in the story. Second, while the story was very clever and internally consistent some elements were quite unlikely or farfetched. Third, while in retrospect there were some clues available to the reader as to the eventual solution to the mystery, the misdirection and withholding of some crucial information make it overly difficult to anticipate who the mysterious central character &quot;Buick Man&quot; really is and what his motivation might be. Last, the ending was quite contived and abrupt, although it does seem to indicate that we might meet Sean and Michelle again. So, I highly recommend this book to those readers who want a blend of mystery and action in the typical Baldacci style, and felt that it benefitted from the fact that it was more concisely written than LAST MAN STANDING.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-11-01
US	50223242	RFNNIHAE0X6ZE	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	5	7	9	N	N	(4 1/2) The Lessons of Life by a Master Storyteller	This book is defintely not for everyone, as illustrated by the fact that at the time that this review is being written aproximately one third of the reviews are highly negative. While I throughly enjoyed it, many readers were apparently disappointed in that it is not at all a &quot;typical Grisham thriller&quot;. So, I will try to both outline the nature of this deceptively simple story and detail both my reactions to it and also the reason for my high rating.<br />An important fact in any description of this book is that it is really an extended short story. This is a book of only 163 undersized pages; it is comprised of only four chapters, which nominally encompass four days in the life of Neely Crenshaw, a high school all- American quarterback who played for the Messina Spartans under their legendary coach Eddie Rake. The team's multiple state titles and 84 game winning streak defined both  the town and the players, and now as Coach Rake lies dying of cancer Neely returns to Messina for his first visit since his college days. However, rather than being the hometown heroes who are idolized on the playing field by their classmates and the townspeople, the players gather in solitude in the BLEACHERS and wait for night to come and the coach to die. And as they reminisce and relive the past, they have to come to terms with their feelings for the coach who molded their lives and drove them to excel whatever the cost. We gradually learn how high the cost has been for some of them; eventually the story of Neely's life and how Coach Rake's need for forgiveness is inextricably intertwined with Neely's need to let go of the past together form the basis for several cleverly handled flashbacks which illuminate their lives.<br />While this is not a sports book as such, an appreciation of sports and understanding of football will undoubtedly add to a reader's enjoyment of the story since it uses experiences molded within the crucible of sports as an analogy for life. However, the lessons are universal and occasionally worth contemplating, and this book reveals the superb storytelling talents of the author in that regard. As we read the absorbing story, we are faced with the age old dilemma of whether youth is wasted on the young, and the missed opportunities that we often realize only much later in life. The book captures the joy of victory counterbalanced by the agony of defeat, and the inevitable nature of their juxtapostion. It is about the unintentional impact that our goals sometimes have on others, and about the cost of the quest for greatness and fame. But most of all, this book is about the irrevocable nature of the forces often set in motion by a momentary decision and as Robert Frost so well articulated, how it is often impossible to return to the fork in the road and explore the direction not taken. If only!! - as Neely had belatedly come to realize, whether it related to rolling out rather than staying in the protection of the pocket during a crucial game or in his choice of the girl to date while enjoying his years of adulation as the team's star. <br />I actually debated how to rate this book since a novel of this brevity omits much potentially enlightening material. In the end, I decided that Grisham had accomplished his objectives quite well despite some shortcomings, and since these didn't detract significantly from my enjoyment I would round up my rating. In fact, a great deal of my enjoyment of the story was due to the fact that its limited length and fluid nature made it extremely easy to read. Therefore, I decided that since some of my criticisms (e.g. the need for more background information and more character development) would have interfered with its rapid pace, the author's tradeoffs may well have been appropriate. So, I suggest that you wait for a time when you are in the mood to reflect upon the lessons of life and the unexpected turns of fate and then spend a few hours reading BLEACHERS and enjoying the storyof Eddie Rake and his boys as told by a master storyteller.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-10-06
US	50223242	R31SGOZZG0D3P6	0399150986	58937551	Smoke Screen (Mills, Kyle)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	(4 +)  WEIRD & CLEVER - But Still The Essence of Kyle Mills	I bet Kyle Mills really enjoyed writing this book. In some ways SMOKE SCREEN is a major departure from his earlier works (summarized in my review of FREE FALL on 8/17/03); it is a story of corporate and political intrigue told in the first person from the viewpoint Trevor Barnett, a third generation  member of one of the founding families of Terra, America's preeminent tobacco company. In order to receive the income from the trust established by his grandfather, Trevor must remain an employee of Terra; his status as a \\"trustafarian\\" (read the book for a great definition) has left him bereft of both ambition and any real goals in life. He spends his time writing largely irrelevant reports, hoping for a meaningful relationship with the girl of his dreams (who unfortunately works for an anti-smoking organization), and amusing his aging Great Pyrenees, Nicotine. In a moment of drunken frustration he inadvertently submits a (really clever) summary of the new Surgeon General's report to the company's Board of Directors which he believes will probably get him fired by the CEO, Paul Trainer. Instead, he unexpectedly and inexplicably receives a series of promotions which make him Trainer's key aide and put him in direct conflict with his father, the company's chief counsel.<br />As a Montana trial proceeds that appears to be likely to force the industry into bankruptcy, Trevor's outspokenness and articulateness lead Trainer to choose him to be Terra's spokesman for their new strategy. In a game of political hardball, the tobacco industry halts the production and sale of all cigarettes until Congress and the President implement legislation which will shield the industry from future product liability by recognizing that smoking is a choice for which individuals have to bear the responsibility for the consequences of their actions. (Previous readers of Mills' earlier works will recognize a reprise of discussions of many of the same philosophical issues that have arisen with regard to the use of illegal drugs.) The political pressures quickly mount on the hypocritical politicians pictured in the story, both because of the panic of smokers cut off from their nicotine but also because of the economic effect caused by the loss of jobs (not just in the tobacco industry itself but also retailers, trucking companies, etc.) and the loss of the huge tax receipts and payments to the federal and state governments under previous legislative compromises. Even the anti-smoking forces have ironically lost their major source of funding.<br />So, Trevor eventually faces his \\"fork in the road\\" moment, when he has to decide which side he is on, what his real beliefs are, and how much risk he is willing to take to achieve his goals if he can finally decide what they are. (And maybe have a chance to win the girl of his dreams at the same time.) There are many great moments of dialog along the way, some deeply philosophical and consonant with the author's libertarian tendencies, many others just fun as Trevor's  thoughts and words reflect Mills' cleverness with language. I particularly enjoyed the scene where Paul Trainer \\"jumped up with the creaking bones and boundless energy of a nursing home escapee on amphetamines\\",  and also one early in the book when we first meet Trevor's boss Chris Carmen, who was \\"as fine a specimen ...of a Double-Breasted Seether\\" as Trevor had ever run across.<br />Since this story is written as a cross between a satire and a serious thriller, I am not sure what the readership appeal will be. However, I really enjoyed it, both because I thought that it was well written and because I believe that if it were possible for our society to adopt this fictional agreement between all the parties involved we would be both better off and truer to the principles on which this country was founded. In fact, I only wish my hope were realistic that tobacco industry managers and politicians could be forced to have their eyes opened by reading  thisbook.  My two criticisms and the reason that I did not rate it five stars are that the character development is not as good as in some of Mills other books (perhaps because of the fact this was a first person narration) and that the action on occasion seemed somewhat inconsistent and quite improbable within the storyline constructed by the author.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-10-02
US	50223242	R34FFLA5MDOGRJ	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	13	19	N	N	(4 1/2) Mitch Albom As The Modern Day John Donne	The reviews to date validate my reaction to this book - that you will probably love it or hate it.  Forty-five people have written a review, almost exactly divided between high praise and complete scorn. Twenty-two five star ratings, a single four star rating, a single three star rating, six did not indicate complete disdain with a two star rating, and the remaining fifteen rated it one star. I rated it five stars for three reasons, first I really enjoyed it - both the content and the style. Second, I thought that the author's technique and its implementation were interesting. Third, I concluded that the author accomplished his apparent goals exceptionally well. The goal of this review is to provide enough information for potential readers of Albom's allegory to decide whether it is the sort of book that they might enjoy and from which they might derive insight; THIS DEFINITELY IS NOT A BOOK FOR EVERYONE.<br />This is literally and nominally the story of Eddie, an 83 year old maintenance man who we meet on the birthday on which he dies in a tragic accident at Ruby Pier, the amusement park where he spent most of his life and where his father had worked before him.  But it is also an allegory about what it means to be a human being and our search for meaning in our lives. The story literally starts at  \\"The End\\", with the first section being a description of the moments before Eddie's death , which occurs  as he tries to save a little girl who is about to be crushed by a falling cart that has come lose from one of the rides.  The remainder of the book consists of flashbacks to various birthdays as mileposts in Eddie's life and a few brief intrusions of the present as life proceeds for Eddie's coworker Dominguez, but it primarily involves the journey which Eddie begins as he enters heaven. This journey involves THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, each of whom has played a meaningful role in his life (perhaps unbeknownst to him), and each of whom has chosen to wait forhim to join them in heaven in order to help him understand his earthly path. The experience of each person contains a lesson for Eddie, and the cumulative impact is to help him put his life in a context that is far different from that which he perceived during his day to day existence. As one of them tells him, heaven is so you can finally understand the past, \\"to make sense of your yesterdays\\". The story is well told, logically consistent, and arrives at a very powerful and unexpected conclusion. It contains moments of humor but is primarily bittersweet, since Eddie views himself as having lived a life of missed opportunities, lost love, and little consequence. <br />One point of the story is that what appear to be simple situations often mask profound truths and unexpected complexity. The author manages to combine the same elements of seeming simplicity and complexity within this story. The simple language employed is yet perfectly evocative of the possibilities of heaven juxtaposed against the often mundane realities of life. Indeed, many of the diverse aspects of life are touched upon including the effect of war not only on the participants but on the noncombatants as well, parental love and expectations for their children and the meaning of friendship and the role of duty in our lives. Thus if you are interested in an allegorical tale utilizing Eddie Maintenance (the name on his work shirt and adopted by the kids who enjoyed the rides at Ruby Pier) as the means to think about life's meaning, our relationship to God, and ourrole here on Earth, I highly recommend this book. My advice would be to savor it, rather than rush through it. It is only 196 small pages of relatively large type and can be read at a single sitting, but that would not do it justice. I found that I actually enjoyed it more because I had to occasionally put it away for a while to get other tasks accomplished; then I could come back and get reacquainted with Eddie as he proceeded on his journey. Of course, one advantage of the book being so short is that if you do not enjoy it as much as I did you haven't wasted much time.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-10-02
US	50223242	R30FFZXHR1KASD	0399150870	884197365	Stone Cold (A Jesse Stone Novel)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	(3 1/2) Not A Paradise For Jesse Stone	Within the past thirteen months, author Robert Parker has accomplished the literary equivalent of hitting the trifecta by publishing a Sunny Randall novel SHRINK RAP (review 9/20/02), followed by a Spenser novel BACK STORY (review 3/16/03) and finally this Jesse Stone story. Unfortunately, while certainly enjoyable and still superior to the vast majority of other novels of this genre (the lean detective story with spare prose and even sparer dialog peopled by interesting individuals whose personal problems almost never intrude upon their professional tasks), I don't believe that STONE COLD quite lives up to the exacting standards set by Parker's other recent works.<br />There are three separate story lines: the first two relate to cases in which Jesse is involved as the police chief of Paradise, MA and the third concerns his personal life and continuing struggle to remain sober while dealing with the ambiguity of his relationship with his ex- wife Jenn. The opening chapters introduce us to a pair of serial killers and their victims, all of whom unfortunately for Jesse Stone reside in Paradise. This is obviously a case that will strain the capabilities of a small town police department, but luckily for the town and unbeknownst to the killers, while Jesse is now a small town cop he was trained in LA and knows how to systematically pursue an investigation as difficult as the one presented by this case. Unfortunately, the killings appear to be random and with the exception of the spent shells and the evidence in the immediate area of the crimes there are very few leads for the police to pursue. Meanwhile, another case intrudes when a girl from the local high school appears at the police station with her mother to report a [physical abuse]. Jesse is stymied when the mother refuses to let the girl either identify her attackers or press charges when she learns that the incident may result in a public trial of the perpetrators and the identification of her daughter and involvement of their family. <br />Due to the unavoidable stress inherent in pursing such a high profile case as the serial  killings while  simultaneously attempting to investigate the [physical abuse] allegations in an extremely sensitive manner, Jesse is in danger of losing his battle with the alcoholism and becomes  even more conflicted in his relationship with Jenn. One clever element of the book is that despite the book being written in the third person we become privy to Jesse's thoughts regarding his emotional problems and their relationship to his addiction through the sessions with Dix, his therapist, in which he has to verbalize them.<br />The investigation of the murders is written as a standard police procedural, and since the characters are only slightly interesting and truly despicable, the only question is how many victims will they kill before they are finally apprehended? (A reasonable conclusion since we know that the author has a strong sense of good and evil.) In my mind, the [physical abuse]case, though ancillary, was much more interesting. It was nuanced, the police work was cleverer, and the outcome was a far from perfect compromise.  Many of the same elements that make Spenser's character so appealing were revealed to also reside in Jesse as that case progressed. Finally, the book's conclusion certainly led the reader to not only cheer for Jesse and wish him well but to expectantly await the next chapter in his and Jenn's relationship. To reiterate my conclusion, Robert Parker has lost none of his gifts for writing stories which are populated by interesting characters, easily and rapidly read, and which implicitly comment upon the triumphs and frailties of the human condition. STONE COLD is highly recommended as a fun, fast read; it's not just quite up to the quality of his best work.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-10-01
US	50223242	R13LGWA0XR9W20	0743234693	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Philosophy, Religion and Science in the Guise of a Novel	This is my first book by Greg Iles, and I loved it! I had recently purchased two of his earlier works based on the reviews and topic matter, but they are still in my large pile of uncompleted good intentions. However, I was so captivated by the title and subject matter of this story that I decided to read it first. I guessed that any author with as ambitious as goal as the subject of this book represents would either succeed brilliantly or totally disappoint me, and I was not disappointed.<br />This is a thriller that encompasses not only the standard action packed sequences of murder, political intrigue and military operations but also a discussion of such wide ranging topics as religion, the essence of our individuality, cutting edge science and information technology, the definitions of life and death, and obviously the existence of GOD. I am always looking for books in which I can become completely absorbed in the action while concomitantly expanding my knowledge and introducing me to new ideas. Then it is an added treat if the author's phraseology is clever and his use of the language also resonates with me. This book accomplished all those things, so I strongly recommend it with three caveats. First, it should be read when you want to be challenged to think about ideas and concepts, not when you are simply looking for a fast paced thriller. Some of this stuff is complicated, and as the author recognizes he has to walk a fine line in  making it both understandable and technically believable. Second, from other reviews it is obvious that this is somewhat of a departure from the author's previous efforts. The stylistic differences (less character development and more cutting edge philosophical inquiry) have clearly disappointed some of Iles' devoted readers. Therefore, discard any preconceptions that you may have regarding the author other than with regard to his obvious talent. Third, certain elements of the book dealing with religious inquiry may offend individuals with deeply held religious convictions that I would label as Christian Fundamentalism.<br />It is difficult to do justice to the plot with a brief summary, but of course that won't keep me from making the attempt. The first person narrator for much of the story (alternating with third person descriptive narration) is Dr. David Tennant, a renowned M.D. and ethicist appointed by the President as the official representative of the White House with regard to the ethical implications of a supersecret scientific project in operation in North Carolina's Research Triangle. The project involves several Nobel Laureates in various disciplines attempting to create a supercomputer that would be an improvement upon the human brain. But the approach is unique and startling in its implications, and is a radical departure from previous attempts which have basically relied on raw speed, huge memory, and learning algorithms and fuzzy logic to create what is normally referred to as AI (artificial intelligence). Essentially, this project's to duplicate and improve upon an existing individuals and speed up evolution. Disturbing events increasingly occur, and when fellow scientist Andrew Fielding dies of what is officially reported to be a massive stroke, Tennant soon becomes convinced that Fielding was murdered. There is the complication that Tennant's only confidante is Dr. Rachel Weiss, his psychiatrist, who is very skeptical of his claims since he has been suffering apparently hallucinatory experiences which he believes are related to the project and she believes are related to the accidental death of his wife and young child. And this is just the backdrop to the story. <br />The complications are numerous and there are many intriguing characters, several of whom are extreme caricatures for maximum dramatic effect. The book races toward two interrelated climaxes. First, the personal attempt of David and Rachel to avoid their pursuers as they attempt to unravel the dual mysteriesof David's hallucinations (which eventually involves literally following IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF GOD) and who is attempting to kill them. Second, can the project be stopped or redirected before a superior intelligence is created that may be able to subjugate mankind? (One subject of countless sci-fi fiction, from the earliest days of the genre to the present, has been the possibility that thinking machines may weaponize themselves.) <br />So if you want to read a fast paced story, probably gain some new scientific knowledge, and ponder the same questions as the ancient philosophers about GOD, our existence, good and evil, and whether we can exist independent of our physical body, all in the light of current scientific knowledge, then you should enjoy this book. But, it not a book for everyone; I encourage you to read some negative reviews to balance my strong recommendation.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-09-26
US	50223242	RIS050ASG9BD3	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	(4 1/2)  Read This Review - Not The Book Jacket	I was first introduced to the concept of  \\"last to die\\" by a runaway bestseller titled THE TONTINE which was written by Thomas Costain  published as a two volume set in 1955. I read that book at the age of thirteen, and it was a riveting introduction to the magnificent possibilities presented by historical fiction written by a first rate author. The tontine was a type of insurance policy written during the middle ages, and that book not only chronicled with amazing historical sweep the events of that period but convincing demonstrated the concept of \\"moral hazard\\" and the perverse incentives involved in such a scheme. (Of course, present day insurers attempt to minimize the moral hazard occasioned in their business, and I believe that tontines are in fact universally illegal.) Meanwhile, the concept has been widely used by mystery writers who slowly kill off their characters and challenge their readers to guess who will be LAST TO DIE.<br />The scope and goals of the author of this book are much more modest than Costain's but the central premise of the book is the same. If a large enough  financial reward is payable to the last surviving member of a group, unexplained and perhaps violent deaths of the group's members will begin to occur within a relatively short period of time. The following brief summary of the plot reveals less of the story than the book jacket, since my advance knowledge of a few of the details mentioned there actually detracted from my enjoyment of watching the plot unfold. In this novel, Sally Fenning, a gorgeous divorcee is shot in her Mercedes on the streets of Miami, and her multimillion dollar estate (the book jacket says $48M, the text says $46M) is left to the last survivor among six apparent strangers with unclear connections to her. One of the potential beneficiaries is Tatum Knight, the brother of the best friend of Miami criminal defense attorney Jack Swytek and now Jack's newest client. Jack not only has to prepare for the legal maneuvering that is sure to ensue, but also try to maintain the secrecy of many details of Tatum's past life from the glare of the media publicity that is sure to evolve. <br />This is a well written legal/mystery/action story with some surprising plot twists and interesting characters. Jack Swytek and his sidekick Theo Knight have an appealing relationship, but since this is the first book that I have read by this author I cannot comment on how his characters have developed over time. It is a very easy and fast read; I basically finished it on a long weekend without it monopolizing my time.  I also enjoyed the occasional philosophical forays and asides and as well as the clever phraseology, e.g the chain link fence that had \\"razor wire running across the top like a man-eating Slinky\\".<br />Despite my enjoyment, there are three reasons why I did not give it a five star rating. The first is minor, there are a few editing and proofreading oversights of the sort that I do not expect in a book from a major publisher. More significantly, after the first murder (or certainly the first two occurred), it seemed highly improbable that such intelligent people as the remaining beneficiaries appeared to be would not taken greater precautions to avoid the obvious danger in which they had been placed. Last, I found the ending rather abrupt and contrived and not up to the quality of the remainder of the book. It seemed as if the author decided that the script has achieved its desired length and the storyline had been plumbed sufficiently so that it was just time to tie up all the loose ends and go home. Unfortunately, it left me with a slight feeling of anti-climax. But I do want to emphasize that my rating reflects the fact that I enjoyed the book and recommend it enthusiastically. I just felt that the promise of the plot was not completely fulfilled.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-09-26
US	50223242	R34ZOEOPL41VNM	1588514897	234462023	Boatswain's Mate	Books	3	6	6	N	N	IGNORE THE COMPROMISE RATING  - READ THE REVIEW	This book could easily have been titled THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JAKE RICKMEYER, or A NAVY MAN WITH THE SCARS OF VIETNAM. It is a fictional autobiography, written in the first person and is the first novel written by the author, Patrick Johnston, following a very varied and quite nomadic career. <br />Due to family problems, Jake Rickmeyer leaves Hodskins, Oklahoma before his high school graduation and although underage enlists in the Navy during WWII and sees action in the Pacific before the end of the war. Jake decides to make the Navy his career and sees his next action during the Korean War and then subsequently in Vietnam. He is a conscientious seaman who performs his duties well and earns the admiration and friendship of many of those brave men with whom he serves. These include an Admiral and a US Senator, due both to his achievements and also specific events which put each of them individually in his debt. <br />Jake also marries too young, but long after his divorce he and his ex-wife eventually reunite. However, she remains justifiably concerned about the dangers he faces. Men under his are killed, and he eventually ends up with a chest full of ribbons for his service, his combat actions and his injuries. In other words, Jake is a quintessential example of those brave individuals in the Armed Forces who protect us and make the world safer for democracy and freedom.<br />Unfortunately, in my view the author tries to do too much and thus appeals to a limited audience. (E.g., Jake's whole experience in WWII takes less than twenty pages.) Thus, while the reader comes to respect and care about Jake, the action never becomes so compelling that it actually engages the reader. There are many interesting observations, not only about war, combat and military service, but also about such happenings during that period as the start of the Civil Rights struggle in the South and, of course, the political upheaval concerning the Vietnam War. But these are all touched upon only briefly, and never with intensity or real passion. Thus, this book did not particularly appeal to me for the same reason that I seldom read biographies and autobiographies, even when they involve the lives of very interesting and important people. I prefer a complicated plot, intense action or at least real mystery or suspense (hopefully combined with clever conversation and new insights about the subjects involved) rather a simple narrative account of events.<br />As some previous reviews indicate, this book will undoubtedly appeal to those readers who served in the Navy and can relate to Jake or who want a relatively accurate and insightful narrative about what such a life might have entailed. (Although there is not surprisingly too much profanity to make it suitable for young readers, for whom it might otherwise provide a great historical education.) So if my description makes it sound like the book would appeal to your reading interests, you should purchase it and will undoubtedly feel that it deserves at least four stars. However, while the author accomplished his goals, I believe that that for the majority of readers such as myself it is only worth a two star rating; so I have compromised by splitting the difference. <br />I should add that this is a print on demand book that suffers from the usual spelling and grammatical mistakes that most such endeavors contain. They are not disruptive but frequent enough to be noticeable. As often happens in the case of works published by smaller presses, the author has been frustrated by the relative lack of promotion that his novel has received. Therefore, he contacted me to request that I review it. (He is a complete stranger to me, we have no friends at all in common.) Since I am always anxious to discover new authors, I agreed to his request despite the hesitancy that I expressed to him since the nature of the work seemed somewhat removed from my normal interests. In retrospect my concern was justified; I only hopethat this review  manages to be fair to him and at the same time helps the readers of this review decide whether the cbook would be of interest to them.  <br />Tucker Andersen	2003-09-23
US	50223242	RYFHR0DJ8L9ZZ	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	(3 1/2) A New Generation -  But An Incomplete Beginning	Tom Clancy has tried to extend and renew the Jack Ryan franchise utilizing various techniques, e.g. RAINBOW SIX involved a plot centering around John Clark and a new anti-terrorism rapid response unit while RED RABBBIT utilized Mary Pat and Ed Foley as the primary operatives in a clandestine CIA endeavor. While these both achieved a good deal of commercial success, Clancy has apparently decided to pursue a more direct approach to the aging of his hero combined with the transition to a unipolar world where the United States is the dominant global power and the main threat comes from terrorists and the states that harbor and perhaps sponsor them.<br />THE TEETH OF THE TIGER seems to be an attempt to revitalize the franchise (after the disappointing and ponderous RED RABBIT - see review of 10/7/02) while maintaining continuity through various connections with the characters and plots of his previous books. Thankfully, the novel is much shorter than his recent works and includes many more action sequences although still bearing the Clancy trademark of a lot of descriptive background material. And it resurrects  the Columbian drug cartel that central to the plot  of CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.<br />The plot of TIGER can be easily summarized as follows: to counteract the threat of stateless terrorists, Jack Ryan (while President) authorized the establishment of a ultra-secret  quasi-governmental organization operating completely independently of all military and national security agencies. It is named Hendley Associates, and is nominally a low profile financial organization funded in a very ingenious manner. Carefully chosen contacts within the government help it to recruit the operatives necessary to accomplish its mission. Among the early recruits are Dominic Caruso, a young FBI agent who took decisive action in a kidnapping case in which he was involved and his brother Brian, a Marine who distinguished himself during a combat mission in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, unbeknownst to them, their cousin Jack Ryan,Jr. independently finds his way to Hendley as an intelligence analyst. Soon, a crisis erupts which involves the three of them in a plot that is vintage Clancy. Some of the insights concerning the intelligence business and global events are very clever, although the writing and dialog have subtle stylistic differences from previous Clancy novels, as if he either had a different editor or a collaborator in the actual writing.<br />My major reservation is that the author tried to do do much. He created a new agency, peopled it with primarily new characters, constructed a very complicated plot in order to achieve his storytelling goals, and then tried to tie it all in with his early works through constant references to the individuals involved in those adventures. As a consequence, in order to keep this book to a manageable length compared to his recent verbose monstrosities, he doesn't complete the mission and resolve the conflict among the main characters. Since Bin Laden is apparently still alive, this may in fact be indicative of the status of things in a world faced with the threat of terrorism; however, it is a less than satisfactory outcome to a Clancy reader and ending is handled  substantially less skillfully than a similar conclusion to DEBT OF HONOR. Thus, until I can read VOLUME II, or whatever the sequel is called, it is very difficult to fairly rate this book.<br />Thus, if you are an avid Clancy fan, this book shows some promise that the series can be revived, but it is far from his best work.  If you are a first time reader, I suggest that starting with THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER and then following the career of Jack Ryan through subsequent volumes will be a lot more interesting than this book as long as you don't mind reading Cold War fiction in an era when the Soviet Union no longer exists. This book should definitely have included a reference list to put in context for new readers all the characters to whom it refers; however, since RAINBOW WARRIOR is a much better story and more readable on a standalone basis as well, if you just want to sample Clancy read that instead.	2003-09-22
US	50223242	R3U5RCSLDK4EXP	0060086629	603736518	Barracuda 945 (Robinson, Patrick)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	(4 1/2) A GREAT READ But NOT For Bill Clinton Fans	I really enjoyed this book and found myself becoming completely absorbed in the story. This was the first book by Patrick Robinson that I had read, and given the length I was somewhat concerned that it might be overburdened by detail, as  many books of this genre have tended to be as author's have followed Tom Clancy down the path to boredom. However, the methodology  utilized by the author kept that from occurring although there were certainly a few instances of unnecessary digressions or more detail than necessary to advance the action and create an aura of believability.<br />After the action involved in a brief but essential prologue which occurs in 1995, the remainder of the story occurs during the years 2004 thru 2008, and while I concur that the essential details of the plot are quite improbable, I do not consider the general outline of the story to be as far outside the realm of possibilty as some other reviewers. In fact, one reviewer has criticized as totally impossible one essential element of the plot that actually is historically accurate - that is the fact that the Clinton administration under terms of the Panama Canal treaty negotiated by the Carter administration essentially allowed control of the Canal to be turned over to a company that many people believe is an agent of the Chinese government. The fact that the author is a  very knowledgeable military journalist who obviously possesses excellent political contacts is one of the factors that made the book so enjoyable for me. The way such details are inserted into the story in most instances make them much less disruptive to the flow of the story than other books of this type. However, as my title indicated, there are several sections late in the book with scathing criticisms of the Clinton administration by some of the characters, and while I actually agreed with the commentary and enjoyed it I agree with other reviewers that it was probably overdone in the context of this story.<br />The outlineof the story is very simple, and I actually wish that I hadn't read the book jacket but will not reveal anything here that the publisher has not revealed in the promotional material. (However, if you have already decided to purchase the book and don't know the plotline, you might want to skip this paragraph and let the story develop as you read it.) A brilliant former high-ranking SAS officer with a detailed knowledge of military tactics defects to a Middle Eastern terrorist group and quickly rises to a position of importance as one of its key strategists. He devises a plan to obtain a nuclear submarine (which are almost impossible to locate and track while submerged if manned by a patient well trained crew); his goal is to create enough havoc (while minimizing the loss of life) so that the United States will withdraw from its activities in the Middle East. Arrayed against him are the Admiral Morgan, the President's National Security Advisor, and the military and intelligence resources of the US government. The action is fast paced, there are several interesting subplots, the character development is good, and I gained a fair amount of knowledge from the descriptions concerning some of the political and military aspects of the story. <br />Two final important points. First, this book had two very thoughtful reader aids that added greatly to my enjoyment and which are much too seldom employed by the publishing industry. There is a cast of all the principal characters involved in the several different theaters of action which is arranged to promote maximum ease of use by the reader, you don't have to keep flipping back to refresh your memory if your reading is interrupted. It also has maps of most of the areas involved, although these should also have been placed together at the front instead of somewhat randomly interspersed with the text. Second, this book demands a sequel. The ending is very clever and completely satisfying, and yet - the major adversaries (who respect each other enormously despite their desire to confound each other's goals) are implicitly destined to meet again since their titanic struggle is unresolved.<br /> <br />Disclaimer: In the interest of full disclosure, I was furnished a review copy of this book by the publisher based upon my interest in this genre as evidenced by my previous reviews of similar books. I have no relationship and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher, and furnished no guarantee that I would even submit a review. If anything, in order to prove my objectivity I perhaps presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve.  Nevertheless, people in my business have belatedly learned too much disclosure is preferable to not enough, so this addendum is offered in that spirit.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-09-11
US	50223242	RWHVP4T2DKJBA	0525947612	850019131	Everyone Dies: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	(4+) An Excellent Police Procedural By A Former Lawman	This could have been subtitled MURDER CLOSE UP AND PERSONAL. It is the first novel that I have read by Michael McGarrity, and is a tense and succinct story in the police procedural genre whose realism stems from the fact that it is written by a former sheriff who has been there and done that. The detailed descriptions and insightful observations throughout the book clearly ring true because of  the author's background and training. Interestingly enough, despite the fact that the story occurs within a very compressed time period, both the level of detail and complications introduced by the subplots made it seem to progress in an orderly fashion rather than the nonstop pace of much of contemporary crime oriented fiction. This and the New Mexico locale clearly are partially responsible for the similarities to Tony Hillerman's books upon which others have commented.<br />The basic storyline is simplicity itself. A well known local attorney (and friend of Police Chief Kevin Kerney) is gunned down outside his Santa Fe office. There are no witnesses and relatively little evidence, so in the search for a motive the police begin an investigation into both his professional cases and his personal life (he was gay). The investigation turns disastrous when two innocent people die, perhaps as the result of the overzealous pursuit of an apparent suspect who is totally innocent of any involvement in the crime. Then Kerney's horse is viciously destroyed, his pregnant wife threatened, and the discovery of another victim is accompanied by a note that the end result will be that EVERYONE DIES.  <br />This a story in which the tension builds as the book proceeds, both for Kerney and his wife Sara and for the reader. It is like you are watching someone assemble the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, but where you know what the picture looks like and he doesn't. This is because the story is written from multiple perspectives, sometimes in the third person but also from the viewpoint of several ofthe participants including that of the murderer. Thus, the reader gradually understands the motivations behind the acts of violence and eventually learns the identity of the killer, but in a way that heightens the tension. (Remember. this is not a detective story, the mystery for the reader is what will happen, not who did it.)<br />The book provides an interesting profile of a genuine psychopath and the cleverness involved in his acts. And there are some wonderful philosophical insights as well, my favorite probably was how the investigation led Cruz Tofoya to observe how the ripple effect of murder always seemed to destroy so many lives beyond that of the victims. <br />While I really enjoyed the book, there are a few reasons why it did not rise to the level of a five star rating. First, the violence was quite graphic in spots, especially with regard to the animals involved. (Although arguably essential to the story, it is not to my taste.) Second, the ending was quite abrupt and one of a few instances near that conclusion that seemed somewhat unrealistic. While, I can't discuss them without revealing more of the plot than what is on the book jacket, it seemed at times  the author chose to reach his desired results by having  some of the individuals act somewhat out of character. Third, the book would have been improved considerably for me by the simple expedient of including a map of the area. I was reading most of it where a map was not readily available; I am not familiar with New Mexico and while such geographic knowledge was not essential there are numerous references to the various locales and I would have really enjoyed referring to a map on the front overleaf.<br />One final suggestion is that if you are not familiar with Kevin Kerney, the recurring protagonist of McGarrity's books, you might want to read the previous volume before this book. I wish that I had. In THE BIG GAMBLE, Kerney  investigates a case with another lawman, Clayton Istee,  a son whoseexistence his Indian mother had kept secret from Kerney. Since Istee plays a pivotal role in this story (both in terms of the investigation and emotionally for Kerney), the background of that book would have been helpful.<br />Disclaimer: In the interest of full disclosure, I was furnished a review copy of this book by the publisher based my interest in this genre as evidenced by my previous reviews of similar books. I have no relationship and have never met either the author or anyone employed by the publisher, and furnished no guarantee that I would even submit a review. If anything, in order to prove my objectivity I perhaps presented my criticisms in more detail than they deserve.  Nevertheless, people in my business have belatedly learned too much disclosure is preferable to not enough, so this addendum is offered in that spirit.<br />Tucker Andersen	2003-08-20
US	50223242	RZI3BXXZDLB6W	0061098027	771444694	Free Fall	Books	4	8	9	N	N	4+ A Comparison of Kyle Mills First Five Books - This Is#3	Since this book was published several years ago and there are already several reviews posted on Amazon, I will attempt to provide a somewhat different perspective that might be helpful to readers interested in Kyle Mills' novels. FREE FALL is the third novel written by Mills to be published, and they all have had Mark Beamon, a maverick FBI agent, as their central protagonist, as does Mills' fifth novel, SPHERE OF INFLUENCE (see five star review 10/16/02). Beamon is only referenced in passing by his FBI associates involved in BURN FACTOR, which was published after this story.<br />FREE FALL involves the search for a top-secret FBI file code named Prodigy by J. Edgar Hoover and purposely misfiled and therefore \\"lost\\" subsequent to his death. Tristan Newberry, a graduate student who uncovered the file has been killed and Darby Moore, the young woman and longtime friend of his who was with him at the time is now trying to stay alive while being hunted by Newberry's killers in the belief that she possesses the file. Meanwhile, a high priced attorney acting on behalf of an anonymous client (who is aware of Beamon's past successes against extraordinary odds) contacts Mark and offers a large sum of money if he is successful in locating Darby. Beamon has been suspended by the FBI and is facing possible prosecution as a scapegoat for the political fallout from his recent exploits in STORMING HEAVEN, and thus is intrigued by the possibilty of obtaining enough cash to defend himself against the resources of the US Government. Beamon's job is made extremely difficult by the fact that most of his usual investigative techniques are useless due to the fact that Darby Moore is the top woman rock climber in the world; she lives out of an old VW van, has no address or credit cards and few worldly possessions, and spends most of her time engaged in adventures in areas of the globe totally inaccessible to the average individual.<br />The story proceeds as the presidential election of 2000 nears its conclusion, and it appears the contents of the Prodigy file might influence its outcome. The election is complicated by the presence of a third party candidate, David Hallorin, who comes eventually plays a crucial role in this book. Thus, this book allows the author to explicitly detail Beamon's views of politicians and the role of government in our lives after having  indirectly addressed them in the earlier books. The action is fast paced, and the basic plot actually quite straightforward compared to Mills' earlier books, but there are enough unexpected developments to keep it interesting. And the author's knowledge and obvious love of rock climbing allow him to provide incredibly interesting detail of an activity that I previously knew little about. It is these details that form the basis of the superb character development of Darby Moore and imbue several of the essential sequences of the book with believability. (And the wisdom discovered by Darby carved into the walls of an abandoned monastery in the jungles of southern Cambodia and imparted to Mark at the height of their travails is emblematic of the details that make Mills' writing so enjoyable.)<br />If you have read previous books by Mills, this novel is consistent with his other works. All are action adventures, contain interesting characters and dialog, involve plots that revolve around marginally believable conspiracy theories, contain political sermonizing, recognize the flaws inherent in human nature, and in the end involve the triumph of some semblance of good over evil but always in an imperfect way and often with a heavy price to be paid. Thus, if you have enjoyed previously reading Mills, this book should appeal to you.<br />If you have not read other books by Mills, I would suggest you read the ones involving Mark Beamon in order. While each story is self contained, there are numerous references in the later books to the earlier incidents, and the background details will provide context  as well as the history of Beamon's personal relationships. Also, I believe that the author gets better at character development as the series proceeds. If you only want to read one book, I enjoyed the last one SPHERE OF INFLUENCE the most. It is the most topical (present day foreign terrorists on US soil) and the plot actually seemed to me somewhat believable. It was the first Mark Beamon story that I read, and intrigued me enough so that I went back and subsequently read the first three in order. If you want the most original plot and the story that involves the most intriguing moral ambiguities and involved philosophical dissertations (e.g. the wisdom of the war on drugs), then read RISING PHOENIX. The benefit of reading this first is that if you like it you will have started at the beginning of the series, as I have strongly suggested.<br />The one outlier is BURN FACTOR. As I previously mentioned, this is an FBI story, but the key character is Quinn Barry, a young researcher who has discovered that the anomalies in an FBI computer system were not a simple programming error but an apparent attempt to bury some case files that suggested a bizarre conspiracy. This is an incredibly intense story, but the plot demands almost complete suspension of the reader's belief and is by far the most cynical and sensationalist in the implications of its conspiracy. The book was recommeded to me and I got so involved that I wanted to finish it, but several times I was totally repulsed not only by the nature of the crimes but the absolutely gruesome and stomach turning detail in which they were described. This description added to the realism of the story and its spellbinding quality, but at several points I was tempted to simply skim the remainder of the book rather than endure the horror of the sequences involved. So, if you like reading the intimate details of serial killings and the torture of the victims, you might enjoy this book. Otherwise, I suggest that you skip itsince it is completely nonessential to the context of the rest of Mills' work.	2003-08-18
US	50223242	RU6VPOBUPWF40	0399148760	892853054	Seizure	Books	2	29	31	N	N	(1 1/2) A BARELY READABLE STORY From A Talented Author	If you fall into one of the following four categories you might be considering reading this book, but BEWARE, with the possible exception of number four you will in all likelihood be very disappointed. First, you are a diehard Robin Cook Fan. Second, you read SHOCK and understand that Spencer Wingate and his cohorts at the Wingate Clinic play a relatively small but central role in this book. Third, you are interested in the medical aspects and the ethical debate concerning cloning and stem cell research. Last, you are a speed reader who only skims most novels for the central element of the plot and are not bothered by unlikable characters and uneven writing.<br />The plot is as described in other reviews and on the book jacket. Dr. Daniel Lowell, a brilliant medical researcher (previously employed by Merck) resigns the Harvard faculty to start his own biotech firm. He is joined by his younger associate, Stephanie D'Agostino, with the hope of commercializing a procedure developed by Daniel, HTSR (Homologous Transgenic Segmental Recombination). Their future is threatened when the powerful Senator Ashley Butler threatens to introduce legislation banning the procedure at a time when Daniel's firm is in need of a further cash infusion from his venture capital backers. Meanwhile, Senator Butler's staff research has led him to believe that the HTSR treatment might successfully provide a cure for his recently diagnosed but rapidly progressing Parkinson's Disease. (Since it would threaten his political career, his disease has been a closely kept secret, known only to his long time aide Carol Manning and his physician.) There are several subplots including a DNA sample extracted from a fragment of the Shroud of Turin, the use of the facilities of the Wingate clinic (which has relocated to the Bahamas), and Stephanie's family connections to the Boston Mob (in an unbelievable use of stereotyping).<br />As the author has explained, he views himself as writing \\"faction\\", and wants to use his books to inform and enlighten, as well as preach whatever happens to be his message of the moment. However, he has apparently forgotten that his stories should also be interesting and entertaining. He claims that he needed to research the political aspects of this book in D.C., and yet the political insights are minimal. The information on the Shroud of Turin was new to me, but the segments on therapeutic cloning were much too technical and lengthy to maintain my interest. Thus a story with several potentially interesting subplots and which had the potential to involve an interesting discussion of the potential ethical dilemmas involved in biotech experimentation tried to do too much and as a result accomplished almost nothing.<br />In addition, without exception the characters were totally unlikable stereotypes and caricatures. Daniel was a selfish individual lacking in judgment who was only interested in fame and fortune; the Catholic clergy were primarily interested in their political goals; Senator Butler was a totally self-centered fraud, Stephanie was portrayed as the typical female companion who was too weak to resist Daniel's and the Senator's plan even though her instincts and her intuition told her it was wrong and would probably fail; finally, the distractions caused by her family had no discernible purpose except to lengthen the book. And if you plan to read this book to find out what happened to Spencer Wingate, Paul Saunders and Kurt Hermann you will be disappointed as well. Even the dialog and the writng style seem unnatural for much of the book.<br />The only reasons I rounded up my rating are that there are a few moments of real tension if you plough through the whole book, there is some interesting information presented about the controversy concerning therapeutic cloning, and the plot has promise (although unfulfilled). So , if you fit into category four at the begining of my review, you might find this book marginally worthwhile. Unfortunately, I got over my disappointment with the author's last few books (since I used to be a big fan of his) and read this in my usual thorough style, only to be disappointed once again.	2003-08-05
US	50223242	R1COS2OZSIAWVZ	0743453956	213780897	Executive Power (Mitch Rapp )	Books	4	2	4	N	N	(4+)  It Is A Shame No Real Life Mitch Rapp Exists	This is the first book I have read by Vince Flynn, and it is totaly understandable why it was on the bestseller list for several weeks. The action is fast paced, the two interwoven plots are timely, Mitch Rapp is an interesting character, and the  political implications and philosophical questions which it raises are fascinating. <br />Mitch Rapp, the central character of the book, is a Special Services operative whose cover has been blown in a highly sucessful commando operation in Iraq and is now a special advisor to CIA Director Irene Kennedy and with strong ties President Hayes. When a team of Navy Seals is ambushed during a a top secret mission to rescue an an American family kidnapped in the Phillipines by Islamic radicals, the President charges Rapp and Kennedy with the responsiblity of discovering what went wrong. A man of strong convictions and decisive action, Rapp devises a plan to both rescue the family and discover the source of the leak which led not only to the failure of the raid but the deaths of two of the sSeals involved. And despite his promise to his new wife, news anchor Anna Reilly, that the time of his direct involvement in such dangerous incidents is past, he cannot resist the opportunity to participate. Meanwhile, there is a greater international crisis brewing, as an unknown conspiratorial group is engaging in assassinations of political figures, apparently intent on sparking a Middle Eastern war that will involve the United States.<br />Both plots are at the extreme limits of credibilty (the main one is nevertheless quite clever) , but Flynn's style and the interesting nature of the geopolitical questions which the book raises make for a fascinating read. I certainly learned in a very interesting manner not only facts about Phillipine history and politics of which I was ignorant, but also some additional background historical details regarding Iraq, Jewish and Palestinian relationships, and Jerusalem. The two threads run in parallel, andthe narative technique is quite effective as the reader views the events from the perspective of the key participants. <br />While I don't want to reveal any details of the plot, one of the most interesting aspects of the book is that various readers will probably react differently to the story depending on their individual views concerning the causes of global terrorism and their sensitivities regarding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Rapp is a character who sees things in black and white with few shades of grey, while \\"David\\" , the key Palestinian character is developed in great detail and in a relatively nuanced way. What I really enjoyed about the book was the questions which it implicity examined concerning the political expediency which often passes for policy in governmental affairs, the examples of bureaucratic hypocrisy and incompetency which it highlighted, and the rejection by Rapp of today's widespread  moral relativism and situational ethics and the policy paralysis which often results.  Rapp knows in what direction his moral compass is pointing and acts accordingly despite the potential consequences. Even more controversially, he is also willing to attempt to provide severe retribution to those whom he believes deserve it.<br />Thus, I highly recommend this political thriller both for its engaging action and it's examination of many of the relevant issues with which we are faced today regarding what are the allowable limits of government action in the face of the threats of terrorists. I did not feel that it deserved five stars for two reasons. First, while I understand the context for the inclusion of the sections involving Anna and they were helpful in some ways to both Rapp's character evolution and the plot, they still often seemed superfluous and a distraction. Second, while I cheered him on, some of Rapp's actions and viewpoints seemed so extreme and doctrinaire (even to me) that he almost became a charicature of himself. The final point I would make is to emphasize that this is my first Vince Flynn/ Mitch Rapp book. Upon perusing the previous reviews, I noticed that the several low rankings and expressions of disappointment were from reviewers who were already familiar with the author and his protagonist and felt that this was a disappointing sequel. So, if you want a great read revolving around international political intrigue and the author is new to you, you should really enjoy this book. (Based on my enjoyment of this book and my attraction to Mitch Rapp,I have already purchased one of Flynn's previous novels.) But if you are a previous reader you might want to weigh the advice in some of other the other reviews.	2003-07-31
US	50223242	R2R7K43IO8SE26	0446611816	505534631	Secret Sanction	Books	3	36	39	N	Y	(3 1/2) A Good First Effort But THE KINGMAKER Is Five Stars	I read this first novel by Brian Haig after immensely enjoying THE KINGMAKER (five star review of 5/13/03), the third novel with Major Sean Drummond as the central character. I wanted to understand the character development of Drummond and surmised that this book would be a fast paced easy read. If you are interested in the military/legal thriller genre, you will probably enjoy this story by Haig, a West Point graduate and the son of former Secretary of State (\\"I am in charge\\") Alexander Haig. The obvious reason is that Drummond's previous experiences are relevant to the later stories in the series, but in addition I would guess my recognition of the flaws in this book was substantially increased (and perhaps my rating influenced negatively) by the progress the author has made as the series has progressed. In my review of THE KINGMAKER, I labeled Drummond \\"The James Bond of the Legal Profession\\"; in this book his skills are not nearly as developed, the action is less intense, and his personality is not as appealing.<br />The storyline is straightforward. Drummond is chosen to lead a team investigating an apparent massacre of thirty-five Serbs by an elite Green Beret team in retailiation for the slaughter of a group of Kosovars who they were advising during the Balkan war. His team also includes a beautiful but aloof defense attorney, Lisa Morrow, and a by-the-book prosecutor, Captain James Delbert, both of whom possess more impressive credentials than Drummond. In addition, given the high profile and potentially explosive nature of the incident, they have been given a very tight deadline in which to complete their report. As you might imagine, they are met by a wall of noncooperation if not complete silence. However, the physical evidence certainly calls into question the official version of events. Additional violence and intrigue occurs, and it isn't clear whether it is related to attempts to hinder their invetigation or just misdirection by the author.<br />Thisis what might be termed a military investigation procedural, and unfortunately I am not an expert in a lot of the areas with which this book deals. (E.g, JAG procedure and rules of evidence, Army ranks, etc.) and thus cannot address the criticisms of some other reviewers about the technical aspects of this story. But it is fast moving and certainly plausibly plotted. The major positives were actually the knowledge imparted by the discussion of some of the history and geography relevant to the Balkan conflict and the examination of the moral ambiguities often highlighted in retrospect by such events as that portrayed in this book. Drummond is conflicted by his role in not only trying to assemble the facts but present his conclusions in a way that balances all the competing interests involved. At the same time, tensions develop within his group and along the chain of command above him.<br />The major negative was the straightforward presentation of the story and the seeming inevitablilty of the eventual conclusion. The plot is neither particularly complex or intrinsically interesting. Thus, the tension involved the interactions among the participants (including Drummond and Morrow's evolving relationship), whether and how the truth could be assembled, and how the \\"greater good\\" embodied in the major geopolitical considerations involved would interact with the determination of the details and \\"small truths\\" of this particular event. And this is done in a very balanced and thoughtful way. (I imagine such issues as what ends justify what means are of great interest to the author, and they are certainly playing out in the military engagement in Iraq today although in a very different way.)<br />I enjoyed the book enough so that I also plan to read MORTAL ALLIES (the second book in the series) in the hope that the evolution of Drummond's character and the author's skills will have proceeeded meaningfully by that point. In summary, I was satisfied but not excited by this book, while I loved THE KINGMAKER (now available in paperback). So, if part of your enjoyment is finding new authors and following their development and the evolution of their characters, then read this series in order. But if you want to read only the best story and to meet a really intriguing fictional character combined with a fascinating plot, go straight to the third book in the series.	2003-07-31
US	50223242	R1UNFD75S67WGE	0399150560	200095985	Blindside (FBI Thriller)	Books	3	37	39	N	N	(2 1/2) BLINDSIDED AND DISAPPOINTED	Catherine Coulter's editor did her a major disservice by not insisting on an extensive rewrite prior to the publication of this book. While it is advertised as &quot;an FBI Thriller&quot; and the next book in the series featuring Dillon Savich and his wife Lacey Sherlock, the author's attempt to fit the book into that mold in order to appeal to her loyal readers will probably backfire by disappointing them. Just as in her previous book, THE ELEVENTH HOUR, Savich and Sherlock are peripheral to the main plot, as is in fact the whole FBI. AND BY TRYING TO GIVE THEM A MEANINGFUL ROLE SHE HAS DETRACTED FROM WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN A FIRST CLASS NOVEL.<br />The book begins as a standard FBI procedural, with Savich trying to track down an apparent serial killer of math teachers in the Washington, D.C. area. However, after a few chapters that case becomes almost an afterthought to the central plot, the kidnapping of six-year-old Sam Kettering, the son of Savich's friend and widowed former FBI agent Miles Kettering. Sam escapes his kidnappers after being mysteriously tranported to eastern Tennessee and is saved from being recaptured by the local sheriff, Katie Benedict. (This all happens within the first thirty pages.) As he gradually recovers from the post traumatic stress brought on by his ordeal, Sam forms a strong bond with Keely, Katie's five-year-old daughter.<br />So, the stage is set. The kidnappers are still on the loose.  The reasons for Sam's kidnapping are a complete mystery. Miles is a former FBI agent who wants to interface with the local FBI office. Of course, Savich and Sherlock want to help their good friend. As the investigation begins, it soon leads to the Reverend Sooner McCamy and his beautiful wife Elsbeth. They appeared in town several years ago and he has founded a very strict fundamentalist evangelical church and which has attracted an extremely devoted congregation. Clearly these elements provide enough potential for a great plot, an interesting policeprocedural, and a concomitant opportunity to examine how moments of stress can become life changing experiences (for Sam, Keely, Katie, and Miles). Unfortunately, the negatives of the book outweigh the positives.<br />The dialog is stilted and often seems contrived; it was also jarring to me that in their conversations the characters are consistently referred to by their first names as is Dillon (Savich), yet throughout the book even in the same paragraphs the author constantly refers to him as Savitch. It is understanable since this has been his personna throughout the series, but the constant juxtaposition is disturbing. (This is one of the many things a good proofreader should have caught; among other errors  even the number of teachers murders as listed in the promotional blurb on the dust jacket is incorrect.) The chapter breaks were on occasion absurd. It seemed like in an attempt to mimic James Patterson the publisher decided no chapters could be too long so some breaks were even right in the middle of conversations. (E.g. pages 196 and 232) One other minor complaint is that I still have no idea why Valerie Ripper was in this story except to provide some misdirection. <br />More importantly than these minor annoyances, I have five major complaints which are responsible for my low rating. First, the story is more like a Harlequin romance novel than an FBI thriller. Second, the villians seem almost immortal. They are constantly put in situations where they should be captured or killed but continually and sometimes miraculously escape to continue to torment Miles, Katie, Keely and Sam. However, after the first few times the surprise element is gone and it just seems unreal. And it also seems that it would have ocurred to Katie and Miles that danger continued to exist. Third, early during the book it becomes relatively obvious who is behind the kidnapping, and while the reasons remain a mystery a lot of the intrigue disappears. Fourth, Sam and Keely are wonderful, but a lot of their charm is the innocence engendered by their youth. Yet, in order for the plot to work, they have to be so precocious for their ages that it strains the reader's credulity. Last, the D.C. murders are solved almost as an afterthought to flesh out the book and give Savich a larger role, but the two cases are totally unrelated and the reader is provided basically no meaningful clue in that case until after the murderer is apprehended.<br />So what saved this book from a one star rating? First, Sam And Keely and their magical relationship. The author actually made it come alive. They and Katie, whose character was wonderfully drawn, were the central elements of the story and if a lot of the distractions were eliminated this story could have been first rate. Second, the way the story evoked the small town rhythms of eastern Tennessee and the beauty of the Smoky Mountains resonated with me. Third, the basic elements of the plot had great potential if there had been a greater element of mystery and the solution had involved a greater examination of the philosophical implications inherent in the crime. Fourth, it was a very fast moving, easy read that kept my attention despite its flaws.<br />So, I generously rounded up my rating to three stars, and recognize that die hard C fans might enjoy this book. But if you haven't read ELEVENTH HOUR, read that instead. It is a better plot, although the characters aren't quite as good except with the exception of Nick Jones. But the reason that the technique of two mysteries works so well in that story is that they are ineluctably interrelated, rather than simply a device which in the end detracts from a more nuanced development of the main story.	2003-07-29
US	50223242	R2NGRGW12B9P23	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	14	20	N	Y	(4 1/2) Does This Book Deserve One Or Five Stars?	READ IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF! Since I am reviewing this book several months after publication, there have been thirty-three previous reviews posted on Amazon (although some of them seem primarily to be attempts to discredit or criticize Profesor Lewis rather than discuss the book in any detail). Rather than the rankings approximating the usual normal curve or clustering in agreement, they follow a pattern more common when many of the individual ratings are based on the politics of the reviewer (although fortunately nowhere to the same extent as in the cases of Hilary Clinton or Ann Coulter). Thus almost half the ratings (15) are five star, followed by 7 four star ratings, 6 with one star, 3 with two stars and only two ratings with 3 stars. Ergo, everyone loved or hated the book (or Bernard Lewis); almost no one was neutral.  <br />I have begun my review in this manner for several reasons. First, there are several reasonably succinct and well thought out reviews of this book already written by individuals probably more qualified than I and which articulate my thoughts. (My rating should make obvious what my reaction was.) Second, I want to emphasize that if you are interested in this book it is more important than usual to read a fair crosssection of the reviews. Third, my methodology is meant to illustrate the reason for my opening advice. Last, I wanted to put in context the following description of my reaction.<br />I have relatively little detailed knowledgs of Islam and have gradually been trying to become more informed since 9/11, a day on which several of my friends were killed. I have been aware of Professor Lewis' reputation and had previously read a few excerpts from his NEW YORKER article and his previous book WHAT WENT WRONG and was impressed by his easy to read writing style. A newspaper review of this book convinced me that it was time to stop procrastinating and begin my education concerning Islam. I was not disappointed. This book far exceeded my hopes. The organization of the text was straightforward, starting with a definition of Islam and proceeding through a history of the various sects (including the role of the Saudis in the rise of Wahhabis) and its contacts with and views of Christianity, the Soviets, and Western democracies. It is incredibly easy to read for a book this scholarly; it increased my knowledge and aided my perspective immensely . My only complaints were that if anything it was too brief, contained too few references to additional material (the appended notes are very brief), and that given his knowledge the author's insights were kept to a bare minimum. This is especially true in that the implications of this book are relatively pessimstic regarding the possibility of establishing a detente betwen the current Islamic extremists views of a secular society and our own.<br />I cannot comment on the criticisms regarding the accuracy of the scholarship, although what I did already know corresponded with the author's presentation. However, the other criticisms are unfounded. As I stated, it is easy to read and relatively well written. It is balanced, it specifically is careful not to equate all of Islam with these extremists and carefully differentiates the terms Arab fom Islam. Last, it directly criticizes the House of Saud despite the close ties of our government with the Kingdom's rulers (who are close friends of the Bush family), thus the criticism of others that Professor Lewis is a blind supporter of this administration's policies is blatantly false. These false accusations lead me to believe that the majority of the negative reviews are based on poltical disagreement rather than careful reading of the book.<br />My usual practice is to read nonfiction books one chapter at a time and then take a break to digest what I have learned, This book was so interesting and easy to read that I often found myself engaged enough to continue reading further than planned. So, if you are a Middle Eastern scholar, an Islamic fumdamentalist, or have strong political views, you may not like this book. I recommend that everyone else take the time to decide for themselves and believe that you will likely gain some insights from reading it.	2003-07-27
US	50223242	R1CGCZ5M7GW6KM	047122684X	546495678	Wealth of Experience: Real Investors on What Works and What Doesn't	Books	4	25	26	N	N	GET RICH SLOW - Wisdom And Advice From Successful Investors	This book represents truth in advertising, it is exactly what the title and the book jacket claim it to be. The Vanguard Group, the world's second largest mutual fund company, conducted a detailed survey of six hundred of it's clients who had been successful enough investors to amass substantial wealth. From this survey it filtered and organized the information and insights which these investors provided into a comprehensive overview of how investors can maximize the probability of achieving their goals. While some readers may view this book as overly simple, it is in no way simplistic and in effect reinforces the importance of attributes of investment success that are often overlooked because of their apparent obviousness. It is an evcellent complement to the previous books published by Vanguard which were written by the current Chairman John Brennan and the previous chairman and often quoted champion of indexing, Jack Bogle. <br />In the interest of full disclosure and for the perspective of the readers of this review, I am an investment consultant and retired co-managing partner of an investment firm concentrating on the equity markets. Investing was my hobby early in life and I was fortunate enough after I changed careers to be successful doing something which I loved. I am also a long time Vanguard client utilizing their expertise in areas where my knowledge is limited, their low cost structure allows me to obtain excellent asset diversification in such areas as municipal bonds and Ginnie Mae securities. Finally, I am preparing to author a book on investments which I hope will appeal to I was interested in whether the lessons which the Vanguard respondents emphasized coincided with my beliefs.<br />This book is organized thematically, beginning with the importance of saving and developing investment goals and a plan to meet those goals.  It then proceeds to a discussion of the importance of diversifcation, how to select your investments and how (and how often)to measure your progress and when it may be necessary to alter your course. It also discusses at length in a fair and balanced way the importance of low costs (a Vanguard advantage) and how to think about taxes. It briefly presents some thoughts on estate planning, not just for your heirs but as a broader legacy for future generations. And it concludes by summarizing &quot;The Eight Commandments&quot; for investment success and providing a useful glossary of the investment terms referenced  in the book.<br />The structure and logical progression of the book make it exceedingly easy to read. Each chapter contains a discussion of the subject matter, often with explanatory charts or tables. There are usually quite extensive and interesting quotes from the participants in the survey, and then a concise summary provided by one of Vanguard's investment professionals. As a self taught individual investor, I was not surprised that I agreed with a lot of the advice (which in some cases goes against sophisticated Wall Street wisdom) and had shared a lot of the experiences included in the book. It emphasizes the basics heavily, especially the need to be patient and let the long term trend of the market and the power of compounding be your friend. And while such elements of investing as the necessity for diversifcation and the need to balance risk and reward seem obvious, they were lessons that even such successful investors as these often had to relearn after the extended bull market of the 1990's.<br />There are three aspects of this book about which I want to caution readers. First, as I have already mentioned, don't mistake it's simplicity for lack of acumen. However, it may be too elementary for those individuals with a lot of investment experience. E.g., it contains no specifics about choosing individual investments. Second, it attempts to help new investors learn from the mistakes of others, but does recognize that some of our most meaningful lessons inevitably come fromour own mistakes. Thus, given the advanced average age of these investors, the lessons of this book may be difficult for young readers to internalize. Third and by far most important, while this is very useful advice, it doesn't reflect the full spectrum of methods and alternatives available to in order to become a successful individual investor. (As I and many others have done.) It stresses the factors which are important to Vanguard clients: low costs, index funds, broad asset class diversification and the usage of mutual funds as a core investment vehicle. These are all very valuable messages, but as the book specifically acknowledges they are just part of a broad range of alternatives that allow an individual investment success. Thus, the most important lesson of this book is clearly the importance of an investor's self evaluation: one's abilities, temperament, time priorities, risk tolerance, self confidence and ability and interest in continual self education. For me, investing is about continual learning, there is always some new and potentially profitable product, service or retailing technique; in addition, everything in the political economy impacts the markets. For others, such topics  may be a collossal waste of time best left to the professionals. Reading this book should help you decide where you fit into that spectrum.	2003-07-26
US	50223242	R2W72GPEOIDNDU	0345441745	508002073	Death Row	Books	3	2	4	N	N	(3+) My Reactions To a Novel Have Seldom Been So Conflicted	At various times during this novel I was deeply moved, horrified by the violence, completely turned off by a diatribe by the author, marveled at the character development, was incredulous that characters who were so smart could act so dumb, was nonplussed by the unbelievability of some segments of the plot, and continued to read almost breathlessly to see what would happen next. By the conclusion I felt that the title could have been IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE  - UNLESS YOU'VE BEEN MURDERED OR ARE ON DEATH ROW. As a disclaimer, this is the first book that I have read by this author, so I am not familiar with attorney Ben Kincaid and cannot compare it to Bernhardt's other novels.<br />The basic storyline seems to be that of a typical legal-murder thriller. Ray Goldman was convicted of the horrific murders of his co-worker Frank Faulkner and all other family members except the teenage daughter Erin. Despite Ben Kincaid's successful rebuttal of most elements of the prosecution's case, the heartrending and emotionally powerful testimony of Erin essentially convicted Ray, who seven years later awaits imminent execution.<br />However, as Ben and his partner are about to make their final appeal after a last minute stay of execution (a habeas corpus petition to the federal courts) Erin recants her trial testimony in a meeting with Ben and Christina but is subsequently found dead. Without any corroboration all hope seems lost for the Appeal Court hearing, but the belief of Ben and Christina in Ray's innocence has been reinforced. Thus, they  begin the race against time to find some hint of exculpatory evidence. Meanwhile, several other storylines are developed which involve Tulsa Police Officer Mike Morelli (Ben's longtime buddy), Mike's new partner Sergeant Kate Baxter, paroled sex offender Gabriel Aravena and psychiatrist Hayley Bennett. The many intersecting plot elements and the constant misdirection allow for a very satisfying plot development.<br />Be forewarned however; this is no way a police procedural and detective story. Rather it is primarily about the character develpment of the various participants in the drama. Ben and Christina's relationship (or lack thereof) and Mike and Kate's hostility play as large a role in the story as their attempt to save Ray from his date with the executioner. Moreover, while the author's opposition to the death penalty was expected given the subject matter, it is skillfully handled in an understated but very effective and emotionally powerful way.  However, the author gets sidetracked into a diatribe against the fast food industry (influenced by his apparent dislike of large corporations in general) that is aggressively pursued in so much more detail than is essential to the plot that I almost lost interest in the story.<br />So, as I stated at the beginning of this review, I am very conflicted. I admire the attempt, and found the basic outline of the plot very clever. And as a reader  I really felt like I got to know the characters; however, at times their actions seemed very inconsistent with their intelligence and experience. So, in conclusion I have decided to recommend this book despite what I regard as serious flaws. However, I cannot bring myself to rate it too highly in spite of my satisfaction with its conclusion and the fact that the author nicely tied up all the loose ends. If you decide to read it, given my ambiguity I hope that you will also write a review to let other readers know how you feel.	2003-07-22
US	50223242	R11MFOJNB98Z50	0375422366	416229475	Flynn's World: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	(4 1/2)  Philosophy in the Guise of a Police Procedural	THIS IS A MARVELOUS BOOK if you are interested in reading a clever and humorous philosophical discussion of several topics (including the meaning of life and the value of history) by a highly gifted author. But if you simply want the enjoyable fast paced mystery stories replete with the wonderful character development that was characteristic of the previous FLYNN and FLETCH books you will be disappointed. While there is some traditional detective work involved in bringing to conclusion the three separate mysteries which FLynn confronts, it is clearly secondary to a discussion of the ideas generated by the situations and individuals which Flynn confronts.<br />Francis Xavier Flynn is an Inspector in the Boston Police department, which would make this a standard police procedural except that the BPD has no such rank. (You will have to read the book to learn the intricacies behind and relevance of that particular detail.) His early evening sleep is interrupted when his daughter Jenny awakens him to have him help Billy Capriano (whom he later discovers is Jenny's boyfriend), whose ear has been nailed to a tree in the local cemetery. Since Billy will reveal neither the reason for this strange occurrence or the perpetrators, the next day Flynn determines that he will set about attempting to solve the mystery. However, his curiosity is also  soon piqued by the fact that a celebrated local cop with a very high conviction record has apparently arrested people based almost solely upon their race. Meanwhile, the fact that his designated assistant, Sergeant Richard &quot;Grover&quot; Whelan is trying to get the BPD to fire him provides some distraction from his endeavors. Finally, he suddenly receives a very high priority although unofficial assignment to discover who is threatening the life of renowned Harvard professor Louis Loveson.<br />Flynn is a truly charming and erudite individual, who proceeds about his tasks with an insight born of strong beliefs combined with an attention to detail. The humor is wonderful, but much of is composed of implicit (and sometimes explicit) ridicule of those beliefs and practices which Flynn finds abhorrent. Thus, these cases all revolve around the clash of values and the ideas that inform them. The story touches on such subjects as adolescence, modern day child rearing practices, political correctness in the acadenmic environment, the validity of the concept of progress, and the impact of television and computers on our beliefs and intellectual habits. A pretty amazing panoply for a book comprised of only two hundred ten (small) pages that is a very fast read! FLynn is a traditionalist, and so is Loveson, whom Flynn desperately wants to protect despite Loveson's unwillingness to cooperate. Loveson believes in rationality and progress and the value of a knowledge of history, rather than the chaos and deconstruction in vogue with so many academics today and often culminating in what the book aptly describes as &quot;existential nihilism&quot;. (In all probabiltity this book will be very unpopular at Harvard for its portrayal of that campus and its politics.) Much of the commentary is implicit and very effective, such as the juxtaposition of the traditional childraising methods in the Flynn and Capriano families with that of one of the Harvard professors figuring prominently in the story. <br />All three mysteries are solved satisfactorily and the resolutions are often somewhat painful. Furthermore, we again get to visit with Elsbeth and the wonderful Flynn family and Flynn once again is ably assisted by Walter &quot;Cocky&quot; Concannon. So, I found this story a joy to read and uncharacteristically decided it to round up my rating to five stars despite one major flaw. It is too short. This is clearly a detective story used as a platform for the discussion of ideas, yet that discussion is tantalizingly incomplete. The author is as spare in fully debating the ideas involved as Flynn is in his conversation. The primary appeal of this book will surely be to readers interested in the topics that form the basis of the story and not to those interested in a standard police procedural. Thus, in my opinion this is one of the few instances when a modern author leaves us wishing for a lengthier exposition about his subject rather than buried in unnecessary detail. Despite that, the story would be worth reading just for the last two paragraphs, which form a near perfect conclusion.	2003-07-15
US	50223242	RAFNXYUGM3FFP	0312289901	969649163	Robert Ludlum's The Altman Code: A Covert-One Novel	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A Mediocre Posthumous Ludlum Covert-One Novel	In addition to the novels Robert Ludlum wrote before his death and which are being published posthumously, he also created the idea for the Covert-One series. He wrote brief outlines (approximately eight pages) for the plots of the introductory books in the series and then critiqued the work of the authors assigned to write the stories. Thus, the early books were quite Ludlumesque in the intricacy of the plot and the intensity of the action. However, it is now sevral years since his death and this story could best be dubbed \\"Ludlum-Lite\\" since his actual involvement in this story appears minimal. The plot is complex but much more straightforward than his own novels; the action is not as heartstopping although just as deadly, and the geopolitical intrigue is much more straightforward. Gayle Lynds (this is her third Covert-One book) has the genre right, but not the Ludlum intensity and surprise factor.<br />The story involves a potential showdown between the United States and China regarding a ship that has a cargo bound for Baghdad that is suspected to include chemicals used in weapons of mass destruction. The suppposedly true manifest of the ship's cargo has beeb acquired by an American agent in Shanghai. Captain Jon Smith is sent to rendezvous with that agent and obtain the manifest so that the US Government will have the proof required that any attempt to board and search the ship before it enters the Straits of Hormuz is not an act of aggression. However their meeting results in an ambush and the death of Smith's contact before the manifest can be transferred. However, the agent did have time to inform Smith before Jon's escape from the assasins that President's Castilla biological father is still alive after fifty years of captivity in a Chinese prison. <br />The efforts to both obtain a copy of the manifest and ascertain the truth with regard to Castilla's father are complicated by the fact that a human rights treaty is in the final stages of negotiation and there are hard line factions in both governments that would like to destroy the increasing detente between them. Finally, there appear to be leaks at the highest levels of the US Government regarding all secret actions taken during the heightening crisis. As usual, Covert-One Director Fred Klein is the link to Smith's clandestine operations. And to the surprise of no reader of this series, CIA operative Randi Russell (the sister of Smith's dead wife first introduced in THE HADES FACTOR) plays a key role in Smith's survival and the ultimate success of his mission.<br />As the above summary should make clear, this is an action spy thriller in the Ludlum style - the heroic operator with powerful forces arrayed against him and with only minimal help. There is also the usual cynicism regarding the political motivations of most leaders and the necessity for political considerations often overwhelming simple choices between right and wrong. What is missing is the Ludlum touch that turns the routine thriller into a story that you can't put down and are often surprised by the outcome. My rating is intended to convey that this is an average novel of this genre. I enjoyed it, especially the fact that the series involves a continuing cast of characters who we are gradually coming to know. So, if you have read and enjoyed the earlier books in the series, you will probably find this worthwhile. And it is a very fast read. But you should read this series in order. One warning, the book suffers from inferior editing and proofreading.<br />Most importantly, unless you find Ludlum too time consuming and complex or the violence too graphic, all the books published under his name exclusively are far superior to this series. Their consistent quality helped create and define the genre, and even the recently published THE JANSON DIRECTIVE continues that tradition. Reading them will not only prove truly enjoyable but show you why he is the bestselling American author of all time. So read theBOURNE triology and all the others first, then read these if you have time and still want more.	2003-07-06
US	50223242	R1QKC13OWIOWEP	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	2	8	14	N	N	AN EXTREMELY DEPRESSING STORY by a Very Talented Writer	This is a book that I had trouble finishing despite the writing talents of Dennis Lehane. He is an author withj an ear for dialog, the ability to capture a mood with wonderfully descriptive prose, and in addition can capably develop a complex plot. Unfortunately, all these talents combine in MYSTIC RIVER to tell an overly long story of tragic proportions but without any of the offsetting heroic characters or acts that can turn tragedy into great literature. This is a very ambitious book; it has multiple storylines woven together and raises many serious and interesting issues. However, the dark side of these characters' lives dominates the story. Fate inevitably seems fate to totally eliminate the possibility of redemption for almost all the characters involved despite their best efforts to build meaningful lives for themselves.<br />The storyline has been described in detail in many previous reviews, so I will offer only a brief summary. Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus, and Dave Boyle were eleven year old boys who lived in East Buckingham, MA, an old penitentiary town on the banks of the Mystic River. Sean was from The Point, where people \\"owned\\", Jimmy and Dave lived in The Flats, where people \\"rented\\". One day Dave is abducted by some perverts; after the townspeople celebrate his escape, the incident is only occasionally whispered about in the future. The story then skips ahead twenty-five years, and the three boyhood friends have become three men with nothing in common except their past. But a brutal murder causes their lives to intersect with tragic consequences none of them could have predicted.<br />So the themes are epic and cry out for examination - childhood sexual abuse and the effect of repressed memory, class struggle as gentrification threatens to change The Flats, the power of love (and hate) to totally dominate the existence of someone, and the interelationship of predestination and free will. Unfortunately, the author continuously chooses to opt for a descriptive story rather than an analytical one and loses the opportunity to turn this into great literature. I actually had to read the book in instalments, which I practically never do with fiction. I would keep hoping that one of the themes would come to dominate the book and some hope would offset the tragedy in these characters' lives, but instead it was written as a mystery with some clever plot twists but a preordained conclusion. No matter what the characters did, their attempts to earn redemption were repaid with occurrences that provoked additional despair or death.<br />The quality of Lehane's writing saved this story from a one star rating, but I highly recommend that if gritty stories with tragic elements interest you that you instead read SHUTTER ISLAND by Lehane (Amazon review 5/7/03). It does not have the depth of MYSTIC RIVER but is a much better plot with an extremely clever although equally depressing conclusion. Another book which in many ways mirrors the elements that Lehane has included in this book and with an equally engaging style by the author is the underappreciated THE BARBED WIRE KISS by Wallace Stroby (Amazon review 4/30/03). In contrast to MYSTIC RIVER, I had trouble putting Stroby's book down. The story is told with much sparer prose and less character development and the plot is somewhat less complex; however, the conclusion is infused with hope and the redemptive power of love rather than despair.riptive story rather than an analytical one and loses the opportunity to turn this into great literature. I actually had to read the book in instalments, which I practically never do with fiction. I would keep hoping that one of the themes would come to dominate the book and some hope would offset the tragedy in these characters' lives, but instead it was written as a mystery with some clever plot twists but a preordained conclusion. No matter what the characters did, their attempts to earn redemption were repaid with occurrences that provoked additional despair or death.<br />The quality of Lehane's writing saved this story from a one star rating, but I highly recommend that if gritty stories with tragic elements interest you that you instead read SHUTTER ISLAND by Lehane (Amazon review 5/7/03). It does not have the depth of MYSTIC RIVER but is a much better plot with an extremely clever although equally depressing conclusion. Another book which in many ways mirrors the elements that Lehane has included in this book and with an equally engaging style by the author is the underappreciated THE BARBED WIRE KISS by Wallace Stroby (Amazon review 4/30/03). In contrast to MYSTIC RIVER, I had trouble putting Stroby's book down. The story is told with much sparer prose and less character development and the plot is somewhat less complex; however, the conclusion is infused with hope and the redemptive power of love rather than despair.	2003-06-28
US	50223242	R2MSO4MGVRLO8E	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	3	1	2	N	N	(2 1/2) A Disappointing Effort Saved By An Ingenious Plot	This book seems to be Tony Hillerman attempting to masquerade as James Patterson. Some familiar characters, a murder and related violence, short chapters, almost continual action and extremely limited character development. (Eliminate the many blank pages between chapters and it is barely two hundred small pages of large type. Thus, it is overpriced.) <br />The story has great potential. It has the well known characters of Sergeant Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police and Bernie Manuelito, now separated geograpically from Chee as a rookie Border Patrol officer and with the future of their relationship in doubt. When a puzzling murder in Chee's jurisdiction intersects with Bernie's work, the retired \\"Legendary Lieutenant \\" Joe Leaphorn is called upon for consultation. At the same time there seems to be a puzzling interest emanating from a powerful source in Washington, D.C. concerning the ramifications of the case.<br />There is an intimation that the dead man may have been investigating the actual scandal concerning the loss (probably due to a combination of theft, embezzlement, indifference and incompetence) of billions of dollars of royalties from the Indian Tribal Royalty Fund held in trust by the Department of the Interior. This is a topic with great potential for an author with Hillerman's skills and knowledge, but it becomes peripheral to a pretty standard police procedural combined with the mystery of how the romance between Bernie and Jim will conclude. There is some excellent misdirection regarding both the nature of the underlying crinimal activity and its participants and who or what is the real \\"SINISTER PIG\\". But a lot of the oppportunities to develop the potential plot complications and resultant suspense were simply never pursued. Also, there were several loose ends that were never satisfactorily tied up despite the attempt to do so in the epilogue. (I cannot go into details without revealing too much of the plot.) It is almost as if Hillerman had anoutline for a wonderfully complex story and then decided it was too complicated and so decided to quickly bring this part of the story to a close and leave the rest for a sequel. <br />As the title of my review implies, a few elements helped me decide to generously round up my rating to three stars. First, the plot is clever, and there is sufficient misdirection to keep the reader's interest. Second, it involves familiar characters. Third, this is a incredibly fast read. It is definitely a book for a short trip or a rainy afternoon. So if you are a Hillerman fan, lower your expectations and enjoy a few hours updating yourself on the latest happenings in New Mexico.	2003-06-17
US	50223242	R2482U31HNLZK5	1591292360	214779291	Strike Swiftly	Books	2	12	12	N	Y	A Four Star Plot For A Movie Script But a Two Star Book	This is the second novel by Kevin Grover, and unfortunately it suffers from many of the same flaws as his earlier work. This is a sequel to STRIKE HARD, and I suggest that you read that book prior to reading STRIKE SWIFTLY. Tony Wilson (now an FBI agent) is the main character in both books, and this book reunites him with his former Army boss Nathan Hooks to battle their previous adversary, aging Nazi Hans Reinhardt. While the action in that story is summarized during the course of this book, the reader will have a much better understanding of the motivations and personalities of the major characters by first reading that story. <br />During the six years since Tony broke up the plot to steal the gold from Fort Knox (and cused Hans' nephew Josef to be imprisoned), Hans has been plotting how to exact revenge on Tony. He now intends to kill Tony and cause massive destruction by detonating a 50 megaton warhead in Tony's hometown  of Findlay, Ohio. But he also wants to torment Tony by challenging him to prevent the explosion while in reality making the outcome inevitable. There are several other clever plot twists, including the \\"real explanation\\" concerning the wildfires in the vicinity of the Los Alamos Nuclear Laboratory at the time of the reported disappearance of two hard drives.<br />The author does a good job of assembling the elements of a real techno-thriller, and also introduces the essential quota of reasons for skepticism regarding the motivations of the political operatives involved in this case. While he does not possess the detailed background information regarding this subject and the FBI that he did regarding the military, he did enough research to maintain credibilty.<br />Where the story falls short is in the same areas as the earlier book, which I labeled \\"a diamond in the rough\\". I will not repeat my earlier criticisms in detail, since they are all contained in my April 25, 2003 Amazon review of STRIKE HARD.  They fall into three broad categories. First, the book needs better proofreading and especially editing. While there are fewer typos in this book, there are numerous grammatical mistakes, colloquialisms and in some instances inconsistencies. Second, the story reads more like an outline than a complete book. The character development is almost nonexistent (the often detailed physical descriptions are an improvement from the first book) and several details are left unexplained. (E.g, how were the hard drives stolen?). As a result of this brevity, things proceed so quickly that the author fails to take advantage of the many opportunities to heighten the tension and sharpen the reader's interest. (There is a happy medium between the unnecessary and boring detail into which Tom Clancy has evolved and the lack of detail of this story.) Movie scripts have to be simple and straightforward and the actors become the characters and help convey the story, here we need more nuanced action and more detail. Third, the writing style is frustratingly uneven. There are a few truly riveting passages, very well written and a pleasure to read, but much of the writing needs the help of a good coach. Likewise, some of the plot twists are very clever and well thought out, and the final few pages are great preparation for a sequel and the final sentence is a complete surprise out of left field but yet in hindsight is totally consistent with the story. Yet, in contrast much of the action is predictable and the supposedly climatic scene a letdown.<br />So, if you want to read a new writer with promise, these books qualify. But regrettably I feel that their flaws are too major to give them a higher rating. I am hopeful that the author's future works will build on  the promise of his strengths while minimizing the weaknesses of these two books.	2003-06-05
US	50223242	R14GLQYPYBRIR9	0060194367	734909175	What Color is a Conservative?	Books	5	71	71	N	Y	The Story of J. C.  WATTS is the Story of America	Julius Caesar Watts, Jr. recently became the chairman of an organization of which I am a member; since I only knew of him as an outstanding wishbone quarterback from the Barry Switzer glory years at the University of Oklahoma and as the first black member of the Republican Congressional leadership, I figured that reading his autobigraphy was the best way to begin to learn about the man. My hopes were tempered by my usual skepticism concerning books by and about politicians because of the agenda and vanity of the writers, but I was encouraged by the fact that J.C.'s book was published after he had announced his retirement from Congress rather than as a stepping stone to higher office. This book exceeded all my expectaions. You learn about J.C. - his family, his upbringing, his values, and the crucial experiences in the formation of his character and outlook on life. The story is told in a straightforward yet very interesting manner, by the end of the book I had developed a real understanding of what makes J.C. \\"tick\\". Usually, I have trouble staying interested in this  type of book because they are either boring, BS, or both. This was an easy read, several times when I had planned to only read a single chapter I found myself continuing due to my fascination with the story.<br />The other surprising aspect of the book is that the subject of race does not dominate every discussion; obviously it is one one the key formative factors in J.C.'s life and is dealt with openly, as are the subjects both of religion and the role of faith in his life and also politics and the impact of him being the first black southern Republican Congressman since the reconstruction era. This story begins with J.C. as a boy growing up during the struggle to end segregation; he was one of two blacks to integrate his town's all white elementary school. He later faced the pressure of becoming the first black quarteback for OU. His parents \\"never gave [him] an excuse to fail\\", rather he learned theethic of hard work from his father Buddy who had grown up during the depression with the added burden of being black. He also had the love and discipline of his mother Helen, the \\"sheltering oak\\" in his life who counterbalanced \\"the strong wind\\" of his energetic and ambitious father. In addition, he learned from the example of his Uncle Wade, who overcame the prejudice and animosity of the Grand Wizard of the Klu Klux Klan so completely that this former KKK member actually spoke in tribute at Wade's funeral.<br />In summary, this is an inspiring story which provides the insights necessary to understand a remarkable man, but it is also the story of America. It is about personal responsibilty, hope, faith, belief in our power to overcome obstacles (even when the mountain is as high as our past history of racial injustice) and create a better tomorrow  for future generations. As he explains, J.C. Watts is an American of African descent who has chosen not to let his race either deter or define him; as such he has confounded not only the proponents of victimhood who view him as a \\"traitor\\" to their cause but also those Republicans who had hoped that he would become the \\"black spokesman\\" for their party. While his experiences inform his choices and viewpoint, as he often says - most issues should not be about the black or white view, but about the facts and your goals.<br />In the words of Martin Luther King Jr., J.C. Watts Jr. is clearly delineated by \\"the content of his character\\" rather than the color of his skin. He is living proof of the view espoused by John McWhorter in AUTHENTICALLY BLACK (Amazon review 3/20/03) that while blacks undoubtedly often still face additional hurdles on the road to success, that the biggest stumbling block to their success today is the culture of victimhood that denies the opportunities that do exist and creates a feeling of self pity rather than self worth.	2003-05-29
US	50223242	R1WQFOIVT6QRU7	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	2	106	131	N	N	A Potential Five Star Film But Very Disappointing Novel	Despite the eight major revisions discussed in the Author's Note at the end of this novel, the final version still doesn't work for me. The final revision should have been to turn it into a film script. Due to differences in the nature of print as compared with film media, I think that the key elements of this story could be an excellent movie (perhaps that is the eventual intention). <br />The storyline is very straightforward: Julie Barenson's best friend and husband Jim died of cancer when she was only twenty five years old, and four years later when the novel begins she is only beginning to truly deal with the grief which overwhelmed her. She has decided to stay in Swansboro, N.C., which is where Jim found her a job and they later married after he met her as a lost young woman on her own. While her presence in Swansboro is a painful reminder of how Jim's premature death cut short their time together, the town also provides the support of their friends and the comfort of her memories. Furthermore, she feels safe there, protected both by Jim's promise that he would always look down as her guardian angel and also by her constant companion Singer, the Great Dane who was delivered as a Christmas Eve gift from Jim exactly forty days after his death. This aspect of the plot is similar to other books by the author that examine the relationship betwen grief and love, but he chose to also make the book \\"a thriller' (this is his word for that aspect of the plot). Julie is at the point in her life that she has started dating again , but a meaningful romantic relationship still seems to be impossible given her emotional state combined with the paucity of potential candidates in such a small town. However, when Richard Franklin, a consulting engineer on temporary assignment, asks her for a date, Julie enjoys herself tremendously and feels an instant affinity towards him. This soon creates tension between Julie and Mike Harris, Jim's best friend who has been Julie and Singer'susual companion since Jim's death. While Julie and Mike have been hesitant to become involved romantically, all their friends believe that they would be the perfect couple.<br />The story is told from the multiple viewpoints of these three characters in a fairly effective manner; the downside of this technique is that the reader's knowledge is much greater than any of the participants. When complications from the relationship turn jealousy into something much more sinister, we don't the outcome but we sure know who we hope wins. In addition, the minor characters, several of whom have crucial roles, are very poorly developed and in some case charicatures of small town America. This is especially true of the two police officers drawn into the situation as disturbing incidents begin to occur and the violence escalates. Pete Gandy is portrayed as a typical MCP cop and in contrast his trainee associate Jennifer Romanelli seems to possess unfailing instincts at every turn. The best character by far is Singer, whose humanness will be immediately recognized by all Great Dane lovers. <br />My main complaint is that the attempt to meld the two genres did not succeed. Almost immediately it becomes obvious that one of the characters is evil and the resulting tension is intense as the reader waits for the story to develop. Yet the book proceeds at an incredibly slow pace as the details of all the various relationships are leisurely described (this part of the book is much like some of the author's other work, which is fine for descriptive tales of love and heartbreak where the details add to the mood of the story, but not for thrillers) I could only read a few chapters at a time and almost just skipped ahead to see how it ended.  Then, slightly more than halfway through it turns into a typical thriller and proceeds at breakneck pace, almost nonstop action with litle further character development. While this would have saved the story if there had been unexpected developments inthe plot, the conclusion was as close to predictable as you can get given the nature of Nicholas Sparks' previousstories. <br />While I recognize that a negative review may earn me some unhelpful votes from the author's most loyal devotees (my wife thinks that I am too harsh and that the book deserves four stars), writing this review reinforced my convictions that this is too trite and straightforward for a real thriller. While it works as a love story, I don't enjoy tension filled ones with such bittersweet endings. Thus, I recommend that if you are interested in a story by Nicholas Sparks about grief and the healing power of love you should instead read the wonderful NIGHTS IN RODANTHE. If you want a real mystery thriller with a subplot involving the nature of perserverance, love and potential redemption, then instead read LOST LIGHT by Michael Connelly.	2003-05-28
US	50223242	RJOD3IZB9YXQ	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	5	12	15	N	N	HOPE vs. DESPAIR  -  LOVE vs. HATE  - LIFE vs. DEATH,	BE PREPARED for a marvelous story, full of clever wordplay, stunning images, clever plot twists, violent action sequences, thought provoking occurences, riddles to be solved, weird occurrences and even weirder characters. This is typical Dean Koontz, a simple story told in a leisurely convoluted way that invariably incorporates some elements of the supernatural or extrahuman powers. The mood is set almost immediately, you will soon be hooked by the story and the images which the lush verbiage provkes or you will rapidly conclude that it is a verbose waste of your time with a plot too unbelievable to warrant your interest. This is about good versus evil, the vanity and frailty of human beings and the redemptive power of love, but it is also a classic thriller. It reads incredibly rapidly for a book of over six hundred pages, the images evoked and the language used are so clear and enjoyable that that I found it difficult to put the book down. I consider the mood that it evokes and the impression that it leaves with the reader a stunning achievement.<br />The story is very straightforward, and the fact that the narrative is told from the multiple viewpoints of the major participants works well in this case. Channing Mannheim is THE FACE, the most famous Hollywood star of the era and wealthy beyond measure. His Bel Air estate includes the magnificent Palazzo Respo (whose wonderful translation is known only to his son and the readers of this book). During Channing's brief marriage to supermodel Freddie Nielander they had a son Aelfric (Fric) who resides with a huge and wonderfully described staff on the estate as Channing films his hugely successful movies and Freddie pursues her career. Ethan Truman is the estate's security chief, whose job includes anticipating all possible threats to the compound and its residents as well as overseeing Channing's personal safety. While Channing is on location for his next film (the only appearance by the face is at the end of the book), mysterious and theartening packages arrive anonymously at the compound. As Ethan tries both to puzzle out their meaning and track down the sender, he finds it increasingly hard to separate reality from illusion. <br />The remaining cast is gradually assembled, including the strange Rolf Reynard, whose whole existence is a study in black and white, and Corky Laputa, master of chaos and perhaps one of the few incarnations of pure evil in Ethan's experience. Hazard Yancey, Ethan's old partner who is still on the force gets entangled in the case and provides a resource that allows Ethan to obtain some help and also maintain his belief in his own sanity. Ethan seems to be facing impending doom, and perhaps not even the help of the walking dead (or the appearance of guardian angels) can avert the tragic sequence of events that seems to unfold with a seeming inevitableness.<br />What made this book so enjoyable for me were four interrelated elements: first, the character development, which is especially wonderful with regard to Fric; second, the sophisticated messages implicit in many of the characters, especially Corky; third, the philosophical discussion of the most basic metaphysical issues such as the meaning of life, hope, love, truth and reality as well as the space-time continuum; and last, the wonderful use of language. Hopefully, the following examples will provide sufficient illustration<br />\\"Premonition. Precognition. Psychic Vision. Clairvoyance. The TWILIGHT ZONE DICTIONARY turned its own pages in the library of his mind, but no possibility that it presented to him seemed to explain his experience.\\" (Ethan)<br />\\"Every palace and every work of art is only dust as yet unrealized, and time is the patient wind that will wither it all away. Nevertheless, men and women ... hope, against all evidence, that their lives have meaning and that in their talents lies a purpose larger than themselves.\\" (Duncan Whistler)<br />So, I highly recommend this book, whose incredibly enthralling and entertaining message is that our hope is indeed not without foundation, and that love and friendship are perhaps the eternal verities rather than chaos and entropy.	2003-05-28
US	50223242	R2WKECGPK9B941	B000065V2X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too Many Dead Bodies and Too Many Girlfriends	Lucas Davenport is called in to head the investigation into the strangulation death of supermodel Aliiee'e Maison at a society party following a photoshoot; the investigation soon uncovers the body of Sandy Lansing stuffed in a closet and the complications begin. As the story unfolds, these deaths are followed by evidence of drug use, lesbian sex, incest, and further murders interspersed with the complicated family and personal relationships of the people involved. Given all the interrelated aspects of the plot, the narrative jumped around a great deal and was further complicated by the influence of Lucas' personal relationships on the plot.  <br />Readers of this series know that Lucas has been estranged from his former fiancee Weather Karkinnen since the horrific hospital shootout in SUDDEN PREY; this is the story that allows Lucas and Weather to have a chance to begin to reconnect. Meanwhile, his former girlfriend and fellow cop Marcy Sherrill plays a crucial role in the story, and Lucas is fascinated by and attracted to Alie'e girlfriend, the former model (who has taken up pottery) Joel Corbeau. And just to add a further complication he is distracted by a chance meeting with a college girlfriend who rekindles old memories (and perhaps more). Another female integral to the plot is Rose Marie Roux, who is still the chief of police and very worried about the political complications and widespread media attention. Finally Lucas needs to call on his old friend Ellie Kruger (Sister Mary Joseph) for advice once again.With the added backdrop of Lucas' personal relationships, at times Lucas and old friend Del Capslock seem even more confused than the reader and not at the top of their game.<br />I enjoyed the book, and found it a very fast and engaging read. But I read it as a Lucas Davenport fan rather than a devotee of the PREY series; I have just recently started the series and have been reading the books out of sequence and thus did not have the disappointment of some of the long time readers that this represented a break in style from the earlier works. This is about Lucas and how this case causes him to reevaluate his life and his relationships, the murders are clearly a means to that end for the author. Thus, the case was confusing, and some of the elements seem quite contrived relative to most of Sandford's books. Finally, the solution to the last of the unsolved murders and the ending of the book were not as at all foreshadowed as they are in most police procedurals and classic detective stories.<br />Thus, if your goal is to get to know Lucas, this book does a good job of character development and is four stars on that basis; it includes the usual supporting cast and the expected clever exchanges between Del and Lucas. You will be disappointed if you are expecting a book that follows the model of the previous books in the PREY series, as the many one and two star reviews indicate. While I definitely felt it was a wothwhile read and recommend EASY PREY, be prepared for what it is - a book which transitions the series from straight police procedurals to stories involving more character development and more complex storylines with interrelated subplots.	2003-05-20
US	50223242	R4MBR1F63MZL3	0446530557	863755985	The Kingmaker	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Meet Sean Drummond: The James Bond of the Legal Profession	This is the first novel by Brian Haig that I have read; it works very well as a standalone story although definitely made me want to read his two earlier novels with Major Sean Drummond as the chief protagonist. While this is a story within a legal framework, it is much more an action-adventure, espionage, political intrigue, romantic thriller with frequent comic relief to offset the tension. It is an incredibly fast paced, easy read which I enjoyed tremendously.<br />The storyline is simplicity itself, Brigadier General William Morrison is in Fort Leavenworth, accused of the most damaging acts of treason in the history of the country. Despite their personal animosity, he chooses Major Sean Drummond of the JAG Corps to not only save him from the death penalty but prove his innocence. Not only does Drummond dislike Morrrison intensely, but the General's wife Mary, a high level CIA employee who had been stationed in Moscow with Morrison, had an affair with Drummond before she dumped him to marry up in class. Just to raise the stakes, the prosecuting attorney, Major Eddie Golden, has twice been the recipient of the Hangman Award (the JAG equivalent of Top Gun status). Further stumbling blocks are that most of the evidence is classified top security and knowledge of Russian appears to be a mandatory skill. Sean locates a civilian associate, Katrina Mazorski, who is both fluent in Russian and has top secret clearance but whose experience since her recent graduation from law school has primarily consisted of cases from the local police blotter. With her pierced navel and non-traditional dress, she is the perfect foil for Drummond. Many of their interchanges are wonderful.<br />The case seems hopeless and Morrison appears guilty, but when Drummond is forced to protect himself and Katrina on multiple occasions from attempted ambushes (including during a visit to Moscow), they conclude that there is a massive coverup being attempted and perhaps their client really is innocent of the most serious charges, although still guilty of being an overbearing, ambitious and egotistical jerk. This is a story whose plot very cleverly includes a conspiratorial explanation for the dissolution of the Soviet Empire and the eventual rise to power of Putin. It even includes characters who appear to be loosely based on President Clinton and Strobe Talbott. It is an alternate history, where you just accept the background as you are swept along in the story. <br />The characters are so sharply drawn that they are almost all charicatures of themselves, but tremendously enjoyable ones. In many instances, Drummond's wisecracks and his repartee with Katrina strike just the right note in keeping him true to the story. (Just the same sort of embellishment to the role that has made James Bond's character so universal and so durable despite the stories having an element of unbelievability.) For those who want a fast paced tale, this is the legal equivalent of James Bond without the futuristic aspects that have increasingly become the trademark of that franchise. While I doubt Sean Drummond will be as durable a character and as good a franchise as Bond (and the genre of legal action adventure thrillers is a lot narrower), I enjoyed this book as much and felt it was as true to the period in which it is set as the early Ian Fleming books which I read voraciously approximately thirty years ago.	2003-05-14
US	50223242	R5W0OUBXHHJZH	0399150439	893493496	Naked Prey	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Letty West Upstages Lucas Davenport as the Star of this Book	This is the fourteenth novel in John Sandford's PREY series, and it's almost perfect conclusion makes it one of the best that I have read. There have been some changes in Detective Lucas Davenport's life; he is now married to Weather and they have a young son, Sam. Lucas has also changed jobs, following his boss, former chief Rose Marie Roux, to her assignment as Director of Public Safety for the State of Minnesota. Lucas is now her chief troubleshooter and liasion for the most politically sensitive cases. Not surprisingly, such a case is about to explode into the headlines as the story begins. There is enough background information provided that first time readers of this series can throughly enjoy the story on a standalone basis and should not hesitate to read this book with the caveat that they may well get hooked and want to read some of the earlier novels. At the same time, the changes in Lucas life and job add an element of the newness necessary to make the series of continuing interest to long time readers.<br />Letty West, a twelve year old muskrat trapper who lives in the far north small town of Broderick, discovers two nude bodies that have been hanged from a tree near her trap line and are frozen \\"like popsicles\\". The sensational nature of the discovery is magnified by the fact that Jane Warr, the female victim, is white and Deon Cash, the male victim with whom she lived, is the only black resident of the entire rural county. Thus, the media and a well known racial agitator are quick to commandeer the term lynching to describe the killings. Lucas and his frequent partner Del Capslock are helicoptered to the area; they soon discover that there appears to be much more to the case than an interracial double homicide. As they begin to investigate the connection of Warr and Cash to a surprisingly variety of illegal activities centered in Broderick, additional violence erupts although none so dramatic and described so vividly as the NAKED PREY. The small town has many interesting  characters including a group of ex-nuns doing charitable work and who end up playing a crucial role in the story.<br />The mystery here is not who committed the crime or their motive, both the reader and Lucas know those answers before the book is half complete. Rather, the story revolves around the attempt of Lucas and Del to make semse out of the remaining pieces of the puzzle. The author continually provides the reader with partial insights into the interrelated mysteries by changing the narrator as the story proceeds. The effect is excellent, the overview provided actually increases the tension and the realism. The reader wants to see how Lucas will piece the threads together without the benefit our knowledge, it is a difficult technique to master but works because the final outcome is unknown.<br />There are a few truly despicable characters in this story, but little detailed violence after the initial murders. The real hero and central character is in many ways Letty West. She is wonderfully developed as she deals with the traumas which she has experienced (begining well before this incident). As she attempts to help Lucas puzzle out the case both Lucas and the reader come to care as deeply about her as bringing the criminals to justice. Both aspects of the conclusion, Letty's future and the fate of the criminals are consistent with the narrative development, they ultimately both provide a profound sense of justice and also delight the reader while making it appear clear that we will have the pleasure of reading about further cases under investigation by Lucas Davenport.	2003-05-13
US	50223242	R1YB5OGJY87KD8	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Foreboding, Depressing Story with a Five Star Conclusion	It is Hurricane Season 1954 and U.S. Marshall Teddy Daniels and his new partner Chuck Aule have arrived on Shelter Island in Boston Harbor shortly before the arrival of a killer hurricane which is almost as menacing as the events which they are sent to investigate. The island houses a former civil war installation (and lighthouse important to the story) which has been transformed into Ashecliffe Hospital for the Criminally Insane. They are there to investigate the escape and disappearance of Rachel Solando, an inmate patient at Ashecliffe who murdered her three young children. There are cryptic codes to be unraveled and bizarre and unexplained happenings that are very unsettling to Teddy and Chuck. Furthermore, Teddy has a personal agenda to pursue while on the island and his own demons to confront.<br />The medical staff seems very secretive at times, and Teddy and Chuck soon conclude that they are being manipulated and that a substantial portion of the truth is being withheld from them. They also becomes concerned about the possibilty of secret experimentation being performed at the facility. The book is set at the time when controversy was rampant regarding the effectiveness of different treatment modalities for the mentally disturbed - traditional psychotherapy versus physical methodologies (lobotomies and electroshock) versus the newly emeging experimentation with psychotropic drugs - and discussion of these alternatives is an integral element of the plot. Unfortunately, this discusion was quite limited and superficial, probably in an attempt to maintain the fast pace of the action but at the expense of the possibility of a much richer and more nuanced although somewhat lengthier story.<br />The book is a very fast read, it contains a lot of dialogue and with the exception of Teddy most of the character development is limited to the minimum necssary to advance the narrative. Given the nature of the patients' and the staffs' personalties, often caricatures were sufficient in any event. Until the conclusion, I was wavering in my rating between two and three stars, but the shocking (althogh still depressing ) conclusion completely changed my view of the story and the author's technique. It also led me to believe that some of his storytelling methodology which I disliked was integral to the mood which he had been trying to create. (This is my first Dennis Lehane novel so I had no preconceptions.) In retrospect, the ending is foreshadowed, but as a reader caught up in the story the misdirection certainly worked on me. The closest analogy I can give is to the movie SIXTH SENSE, which you need to see again to reinterpret all the clues. This book is not nearly as well done, and the final chapters actually review a lot of the misdirection for you, but the impact for me was the same. Interestingly enough, a perusal of the thirty ... reviews available as I submit this review indicates that a clear majority of readers came to my conclusion but the reaction of a significant minority ranged from lukewarm to very disappointed. There are twenty-one five star ratings and in a real oddity no one until now has rated it four stars; the other nine reviewers came to the conclusion that it deserved only one to three stars. I definitely recommend the book but felt that the depressing nature of the subject matter and my desire for a more detailed story with more deeply drawn characters kept it from deserving the unqualified endorsement that five stars implies.sufficient in any event. Until the conclusion, I was wavering in my rating between two and three stars, but the shocking (althogh still depressing ) conclusion completely changed my view of the story and the author's technique. It also led me to believe that some of his storytelling methodology which I disliked was integral to the mood which he had been trying to create. (This is my first Dennis Lehane novel so I had no preconceptions.) In retrospect, the ending is foreshadowed, but as a reader caught up in the story the misdirection certainly worked on me. The closest analogy I can give is to the movie SIXTH SENSE, which you need to see again to reinterpret all the clues. This book is not nearly as well done, and the final chapters actually review a lot of the misdirection for you, but the impact for me was the same. Interestingly enough, a perusal of the thirty ... reviews available as I submit this review indicates that a clear majority of readers came to my conclusion but the reaction of a significant minority ranged from lukewarm to very disappointed. There are twenty-one five star ratings and in a real oddity no one until now has rated it four stars; the other nine reviewers came to the conclusion that it deserved only one to three stars. I definitely recommend the book but felt that the depressing nature of the subject matter and my desire for a more detailed story with more deeply drawn characters kept it from deserving the unqualified endorsement that five stars implies.	2003-05-08
US	50223242	RKDUSLYFY1UKG	0743206061	789567455	The Second Time Around (Clark, Mary Higgins)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Page Turning Suspense - DOES THE CANCER CURE WORK?	Nicholas Spencer is the charismatic head of Gen-stone, a company attempting to develop a cancer vaccine and cure based on research conducted by Nick's deceased father during his years as a practicing physician. After the death of his first wife due to cancer, Nick has become obsessed with finding a cure in order to spare others the heartbreak caused by the disease. As the story begins,  Nick has disappeared during a severe thunderstorm while piloting his plane to a conference in Puerto Rico, where he had hoped to convince additional investors to fund Gen-stone's research. While he is at first presumed dead, his body has not been recovered and subsequent events raise questions regarding his disappearance.<br />Following the plane crash, Gen-stone reveals that recent clinical trials of the vaccine have not duplicated the earlier encouraging results. In addition, an investigation has uncovered evidence that substantial corporate funds have been embezzled. Marcia \\"Carley\\" DiCarlo is a financial columnist extremely interested in Nick's death for both personal and professional reasons. She is the central protagonist and primary narrator of this novel. Carley's stepsister is Lynn Spencer, Nick's second wife. Lynn's father only recently married Carley's mother. While Carley is very pleased with her mother's newfound happiness, she has intensely disliked Lynn during their three brief encounters, considering her an upwarding mobile socialite with whom Carley has no common interests. Conversely, she was very favorably impressed with Nick's sincerity and charm. In fact, she invested her savings toward the downpayment on a NYC apartment in Gen-stone stock based upon Nick's assurances of the promising nature of the vaccine research.<br />Carley decides to attend the Gen-stone investor meeting which is not surprisingly dominated by hostile stockholders who are afraid that their money has been lost. Their pain is magnified by the fact that several had invested in the hopes of achieving a cure for the cancer from which their family members were suffering; thus in some cases they had lost both their hope and their financial resources. After a disastrous performance during the meeting and her fear of the legal and public relations consequences, Lynn attempts to enlist Carley's help in proving that she is innocent of any involvement in whatever illegal activities might have been engaged in by Nick.<br />Carley is assigned by the editors of her new publication to collaborate with two other staff writers on a cover story investigating all aspects of the Gen-stone story, financial, legal, personal and medical. As Carley tries to uncover the truth, Lynn's Bedford mansion is torched and Lynn narrowly escapes the flames. As the story develops,there are several interrelated plotlines which are all woven together in a very engaging way. There are enough twists and turns to keep the reader's interest, altough with the exception of the gradual revelation of the truth concerning Nick's role at the center of all of the main events, most of the time the good guys are readily distinguishable from the villians. However, the reader is kept guessing until the very end as to who will remain alive and who might be murdered either to keep the truth secret or in revenge for shattered dreams.<br />This book is well written and fast moving; it has all the elements necessary to keep the reader's interest including a boyfriend for Carley with an essential role in the story. I enjoyed the book; it is just right for a quiet weekend or a vacation trip. Therre are two factors that kept me from rating it five stars. First, with the exception of Carley, only one other (very unsavory) character (who is the narrator at times) had any meaningful character development. We did get to know Nick posthumously as Carley stuggled with her positive assessment of him in the face of so much apparently damaging evidence concerning his actions. But this is a story that largely eschews character development in favor of solving the mystery regarding Nick's disappearance and how it related to Gen-stone. This approach shortened the narrative at the expense of lessening the reader's involvement. Second, the extent of corporate malfeasance and the related criminal behavior that are the core of the plot are so extreme and unrealistic that they make Enron seem like some hanky-panky at a church picnic. Therefore, while the story is a pageturner and the plot is complex, the price that the reader pays is that a complete suspension of belief in the novel's plausibility is necessary to accept the conclusion. Thus, when I finished the book I felt that it was very clever but that nonetheless the author had left me somewhat dissatisfied as a result of attempting to nicely tie up all the loose ends. While I am sure that these minor criticisms will not keep THE SECOND TIME AROUND from the bestseller lists, they did keep it from receiving my five star rating.	2003-05-06
US	50223242	RTD8X2GDXBLT6	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	5	66	70	N	N	Harry Bosch Through The Eyes of a First Time Reader	While I have been aware of Michael Connelly's impressive reputation as an author and the many readers who are fans of detective Harry Bosch, this is my introduction to this series. My five star rating indicates that I enjoyed the book tremendously and felt that it was exactly what the book jacket led me to expect and what the author was trying to accomplish. This is neither a great work of fiction nor is it even the best crime story that I have ever read, but it is well plotted, fast paced and very enjoyable with enough surprising details before the case is solved to keep the reader's interest.<br />Recently retired LAPD Detective Harry Bosch is still haunted by the four year old unsolved murder of twenty-four year old Angella Benton, an assistant to a famous movie producer. He is also bothered by the apparently coincidental robbery and murder that occurred on the movie set as he was investigating Angie's murder a few days later. The two million dollars taken in the heist was never recovered. Furthermore, the cops in the Robbery-Homicide Division who took over the case became the victims in a subsequent apparently unrelated robbery that left one dead and the other completely paralyzed and extremely bitter.<br />This is a classic detective story, and while it has many of the ingredients  of a police procedural one of the important elements is that Harry is no longer on the force and has to rely on favors from his friends rather than having the power of his badge to get to the truth. The reader knows what happened and suspects that the question of why will in some way relate all the apparently random elements to the heist, then waits for Bosch to uncover who was involved and how they escaped apprehehension. <br />The thing that I appreciated about the story was the author's ability to add enough complexity so that even when the clues were sufficient to lead the reader in the general direction of the solution, you still wanted to learn how all the various threads wereinterrelated. The other surprising fact was that my concern about reading a novel whose main character had appeared in so many previous books was totally misplaced. The references to Harry's previous cases and relationships were self explanatory, and the use of the first person technique with Harry as the narrator of the story allowed a first time reader to easily develop a familiarity with him, since his motivations are an integral part of the story. In fact, as is often the case in long running detective series, this book is as much or perhaps more about Harry and his life in a post-LAPD world than it is about the case.<br />This is a very fast read, and should be enjoyed by long time Connelly fans as well as first time readers such as myself. The details and relationships of the characters are as important to keeping your interest as is the major story line; if you succeed in solving all the unexplained elements of the various crimes before Harry, then you should undoubtedly become a mystery novelist yourself. I also found the last scene both unanticipated and very upbeat. LOST LIGHT was so entertaining that I definitely plan to read some of the earlier books in the series.	2003-05-01
US	50223242	R1AUW3N1GXZS5P	0312300344	995952902	The Barbed-Wire Kiss: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Drugs, Violence, Death And A New Beginning	I picked this book up to read because the title intrigued me. It also provided the adventure of reading an unknown author's first novel and it took place in New Jersey, where I lived for over twenty-two years. I was not disappointed. The author is a journalist for the New Jersey Star Ledger and so well captures the aspects of the areas and the lives which he writes about that at times they become stereotypes. It is not a happy book, and the characters are not happy people (even excluding the many who are killed during the course of the book). It is spare and gritty with a reasonable amount of violence and profanity, but these are used for the sake of realism, not gratuitously. It is a novel about drugs and the mob, but also friendship, fate, love, a philosophy of life, second chances and barbed wire kisses (which finally get defined near the conclusion in a wonderfully appropriate touch).<br />The plot is simplicity itself. Harry Rane is a retired NJ State Trooper. His wife died recently, and while in mourning he almost got killed while on duty and is now drifting aimlessly through life. His high school friend Bobby Fox comes to him for help when he is left owing $50,000 to Eddie Fallon, a small time gangster, when Jimmy Cortez, a casual friend who has drawn Bobby into a \\"one time easy money drug deal\\" disappears. Harry likes Bobby and his wife Janine and so agrees to help by talking to Eddie and trying to find Jimmy. Of course, complications soon ensue and violence results. A potentially major complication occurs when Harry unexpectedly learns that Eddie Fallon's wife Christina is an old high school sweetheart who left town years ago. Seeing Christina causes Harry to reevaluate his directionless life, and as additional violence ensues there is aforeboding sense that a tragic outcome is perhaps inevitable for many of the participants.<br />This is a book that moves straight ahead and tells the story with only minor detours to fill in some necessary details. In addition, Harry's ruminations upon the meaning of his life, his friendship with Bobby, and his goals for the future were all very well integrated into the story and made his character come alive. The fact that Harry can feel a sense of accomplishment and redemption at the end of a story marked by so much death and violence without the conclusion feeling overly sentimental is a sign of how successful the author has been in creating a mood that keeps the reader interested.<br />Thus, altough in many ways this is not at all typical of the type of books which I usually enjoy and rate highly, I found it so true to its goals that I felt that it deserved four stars. But be prepared for the despair of lives that often seem small and of little consequence, even to those who live them. But when you are through, you'll probably hope to meet Harry again in another book to learn what happened to him and how his life is progressing.	2003-04-30
US	50223242	R3ARJEZYJC5MDN	158851322X	789585456	Strike Hard	Books	2	7	9	N	Y	A DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH	I had very mixed feelings about this book by first time author Kevin Grover. The idea of the plot was excellent, and the prologue set the stage for a great story. But unfortunately the author was given bad advice when told (probably by friends since it was apparently self published) that the final version was ready for publication. Just like the proverbial diamond in the rough, it needs a lot more shaping, cutting and polishing for the potential brillance to be revealed.<br />The plot line is very straightforward. this is supposedly an account of an attempt by a group of neo-Naxi's to steal gold bullion from Fort Knox to finance their political activities. The author was actually based there during two tours of duty while in the US Army, and thus utilized his knowledge to provide the background for the storyline and create a credible operation logistically. His feel for military routine and procedure provides an authentic feel to the military elements of the story; however, on occasion he assumes reader familiarity with  military terminology (especially acronyms and abbreviations) which need explanation. The central character is Sgt. Tony Wilson, a drill instuctor about to leave the Army and taking classes in criminology. The first few chapters introduce us to Tony and  supply Sgt. Karen Harris, who has become a good friend (in a platonic relationship) while also stationed at Fort Knox. Meanwhile, weapons have been disappearing from several military posts and armories in the region; Tony brings fresh eyes to the investigation while temporarily assigned to assist Lieutenant Colonel Nathan Hooks. Several promising leads turn into dead ends when the suspects are murdered but the investigation gradually uncovers evidence of neo-Nazi involvement. Finally, as you might gues Tony and Karen become increasing attracted to each other but afraid to reveal their true feelings. If it sounds like a plot with a lot of potential, it is.<br />Unfortunately, the development of the story in this book seems more like  an outline or an early draft. The characters need a lot more development; only Tony is fleshed out in much detail, including such interesting angles as his interest in cooking. The story  proceeds in too linear a fashion, there should be more misdirection and intrigue to hold the reader's interest. Also, as is true of most books from small publishing houses the proofreading and editing appear non-existent; there are a lot of typos and grammatical errors.<br />The author clearly has potential, on a few occasions there are flashes of brillance and in a few instances he creates real tension regarding the outcome of violent events. My final criticism is the opposite of my usual complaint regarding this genre, this story should be longer. There is a middle ground between the brevity of STRIKE HARD and the mind numbing detail of Tom Clancy's RED RABBIT .... Kevin Grover has a very long way to go before the comparisons with Clancy are apt, but his subject matter is similar and if he continues to write about subjects of which he has this much in depth knowledge he will move in that direction . However, the story's brevity doesn't allow enough time to provide the necessary detail and color in his stories to maintain the reader's interest in the action and the characters. More detail would paradoxically make a somewhat longer book more cohesive and therefore fast moving by involving the reader (as Clancy and Ludlum do) rather than leaving him (or her) only an outside observer.<br />I do plan to read the sequel, STRIKE SWIFTLY, which involves many of the same characters and hopefully will benefit from the feedback which he received from readers of this novel. The subject matter of that appears quite interesting, and it is worth encouraging new literary voices with the determination and thought provoking plots of Kevin Grover.	2003-04-26
US	50223242	R2TSQ63MJL99NU	0060083107	515757629	Should America Pay?: Slavery and the Raging Debate on Reparations	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Moving Rhetoric and Great Passion but Disappointing Analysis	I am very interested in the issue of reparations andpurchased this book based on the dust jacket blurbs and looking at the table of contents. While I found it very informative in some respects, I was quite disappointed and had to struggle to rate it three stars. My disappointments concerned three different issues, discussed below following a description of the book.  <br />This is a collection of essays accompanied by thirty eight pages of documents with relevance to the reparations issue. The book is organized thematically, with sections providing historical context, a legal overview, organizational initiatives, opinion pieces, and alternative methodologies. Many of the selections are quite short; at one extreme some are heavily footnoted and scholarly in format, at the other extreme some are conversational in nature. The book is quite easy to read, and while I read it in its entirety (but not in sequence), each selection stands on its own. Its strength is that Raymond Winbush, the editor has provided in one place a meaningful and diverse introduction to the literature on the subject for those who are interested in the arguments supporting reparations. He includes many of early advocates of reparations articulately presenting the case.<br />My first complaint is that its strength is also its weakness. This is not a book that examines the issue in an unbiased manner, but rather a sermon being preached to the choir. Despite the book jacket proclaiming that the there would be sufficient counterarguments to provide balance, this is definitely not the case. There are only three such articles (Armstrong Williams, Shelby Steele, and John McWhorter) presenting a countervailing point of view, and they are among the briefest in the collection, totaling 27 pages out of 366. In my view, this is indicative of the same sort of tokenism rightly decried by civil rights advocates. Winbush clearly had the right to produce a pro reparations book, but don't sell it under false pretenses and advertise it as representing both sides of the debate. There is no meaningful debate between these covers.<br />My second criticism is that despite the apperance of scholarship, most of the articles lacked real substance and analysis. They were wonderful at presenting historical context and had substantial descriptive and in many cases emotional content, but this cannot substitute for academic rigor. Advocacy, no matter how forceful and heart felt, cannot effectively replace convincing argumentation. Because of their accurate depiction and understanding of the evils and horrors of slavery, many of the authors in this collection are such true believers in their cause that they have lost all objectivity. For instance, Tim Wise concludes that \\"innocence ... in the mouths of persons born in the United States is beyond interesting ... it is stunningly infantile ... [it ] is [in fact] beyond the comprehension of the rational mind\\". This sort of rhetoric may make one feel good and win loud cheers from your allies but is unlikely to help you engage the interest of those undecided in the legitimacy of your claimed remedy for the agreed upon historical injustices.<br />My third disappointment was very articulately summarized in various ways by Armstrong, McWhorter and Steele. The essence is that the reparations argument is based on three assumptions, all of which are often assailed as racist in other contexts. First, that blacks are basically a homogeneous group rather than individuals. (This is of course necessary for class action lawsuits or political redress to be successful.) Second, and most destructive, that blacks cannot escape their victimhood caused by the continuation of pervasive racism in America today. Third, that blacks are Africans forced to live in America, not Americans.<br />I will not take time to comment on the historical inaccuracies and popular misconceptions in some of these articles, because while disappointing they are not central to the discussion in any instance. This book is worth reading both for background and revealing the mindset of the advocates. E.g. one of the most interesting articles was originally published in Harper's Magazine, and is a fascinating discussion among four of the top class action lawyers in the country. They unwittingly reveal the weakness of their legal case through the following interchange; they \\"love big stuff', don't want to lose on a technicality\\", need to find \\"elegant solutions to major national social problems\\", will \\"need help politically... since we don't have the law squarely on our side\\" and thus the first question should not be who are the plaintiffs, but \\"Who are the defendants,i.e. who pays?\\" That is, if they can find some deep pockets and earn their fees, then they'll try to build a case that appears to solve the major problem of slavery and residual racism. If you want a book that examines the current state of race relations in America in a much more hopeful and helpful light and provides real insights and decries the cult of victimhood, I suggest that you read the essays in AUTHENTICALLY BLACK by John McWhorter (see my Amazon review of 3/20/03) in addition to this book.	2003-04-23
US	50223242	R79UODS2JMOF4	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	33	44	N	N	A Review That Compares Dan Brown's Four Books	THE DA VINCI CODE has been #1 on the best seller and as I write this it has already been reviewed exactly one hundred times on Amazon. Thus, after summarizing the plot, I will attempt to make this review as helpful as possible by briefly discussing the author's four books, comparing the plots, and describing and analyzing his writing style in summary fashion.<br />Harvard professor and symbologist Robert Langdon is summoned to the Louvre to help Captain Bezu Fache of the Paris Judicial Police unravel the clues surrounding the body of the murdered curator, Jacques Sauniere. Sophie Neveu, a police cryptologist soon arrives, and it almost immediately becomes clear that it will take their combined skill and knowledge to follow the trail laid out by Sauniere before his death. As they attempt to uncover the hidden secrets of The Priory of Sion (a real organization that is hundreds of years old and has included as members Issac Newton and Leonardo Da Vinci, both of whom figure in the story), their search leads them to several Paris locations and eventually to England. Of course, others are also on the trail, including Captain Fachu, a huge albino monk, and an unknown formidable opponent who appears to be the only person in possession of a complete overview of the puzzle which they are trying to solve. The story combines history, murder, intrigue, wordplay combined with cryptanalysis, romance, religion and art. These elements are combined in such an incredibly captivating way that the pace never slackens as you are constantly being bombarded with both new facts and puzzles to solve. (I only solved one of the puzzles before Langdon and Neveu, and it is the one on which the author gives the reader some help.)  The pace is fast and the narrative has several threads which merge to provide a surprising and satisfactory conclusion.<br />This is Brown's second book involving Robert Langdon. My review of ANGELS AND DEMONS (Amazon 4/1/03) provides a detailed overview of that book. While this is not a sequel which requires that book to be read first, ANGELS has additional background regarding Langdon's character and academic specialty which made this book more enjoyable for me. Both involve religion, art and symbology, and both a have well researched and accurate historical basis. Thus they are superficially similar. However, ANGELS has three significant differences. First, it assumes further scientific advances and takes place in the future while DA VINCI takes place in the current day. Second, philosophical questions regarding the frequent conflicts between religion and science form the basis of the story and are the basis of some of the best passages in ANGELS. The philosohical implications of the mysteries involved in this story are just as complex but the discussion is much less profound. Third, in ANGELS the conflict among the various religious factions of the Catholic Church did not go the heart of the basis of Christian beliefs but rather to the existence and nature of God, the questions raised by this story are much more profound for Christianity. (This factor accounts for some of the  critical reviews.)<br />A common element in all Dan Brown's books is the very compressed time frame in which the stories occur. The tension is heightened by a race against the clock as an integral element of the nature of the various adversaries; this technique helps to make the stories real \\"page turners\\". In DA VINCI, the complete story except for a short epilogue incredibly takes place within approximately twenty four hours, yet the pace seems true to the events. (In order to give you an idea of the compressed time frames Brown utilizes, this is roughly double the time frame of ANGELS.) Both DECEPTION POINT (his third novel) and DIGITAL FORTRESS (his first book) also utilize this technique.<br />All the author's books involve extensive knowledge about the subjects involved, which is always imparted in a manner that keeps the reader's interest. Thus, they are for the reader who wants not only fast paced action but intelligent and absorbing fiction, a very different genre than the also enjoyable best selling James Patterson (at least until THE JESTER, see review of 3/15/03). DECEPTION POINT involves computer hacking and introduces the theme ofcryptanalysis which is revisited in DA VINCI. DECEPTION POINT involves science, oceanography, NASA and politics, unfortunately it veers into implausibilty.<br />In summary, Dan Brown knows how to keep his readers' interest. While each of the four books can be read independently, I would recommend reading ANGELS (available in paperback) if you only have time to read one or before reading DA VINCI. DIGITAL FORTRESS is an excellent first novel although not as polished as the later works. The subject is more specialized and probably won't appeal to as wide a range of readers. DECEPTION POINT is well written but  had the only conclusion that disappointed me  thus is not as highly reccommended as the other three novels.hey are for the reader who wants not only fast paced action but intelligent and absorbing fiction, a very different genre than the also enjoyable best selling James Patterson (at least until THE JESTER, see review of 3/15/03). DECEPTION POINT involves computer hacking and introduces the theme ofcryptanalysis which is revisited in DA VINCI. DECEPTION POINT involves science, oceanography, NASA and politics, unfortunately it veers into implausibilty. <br />In summary, Dan Brown knows how to keep his readers' interest. While each of the four books can be read independently, I would recommend reading ANGELS (available in paperback) if you only have time to read one or before reading DA VINCI. DIGITAL FORTRESS is an excellent first novel although not as polished as the later works. The subject is more specialized and probably won't appeal to as wide a range of readers. DECEPTION POINT is well written but  had the only conclusion that disappointed me  thus is not as highly reccommended as the other three novels.	2003-04-21
US	50223242	R305OWBVOLU94Q	0595243827	941562606	The Raid: More Than a Body Ought to Bear	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Eye Opening Account of the Abuse of Government Power	This novel utilizes an actual DEA raid as the basis for a fictionalized account which dramatizes the unintended consequences which often result from such actions. It puts in context the arrogance of power often involved in the government's use of its police powers, and explicitly questions the moral legitimacy of such action.<br />The diary farm of Jake Drummond is raided one night based on a tip from an anonymous informant that his Mexican workers were involved in illegal drug smuggling. No evidence of such activity was found, but property was destroyed, serious injuries resulted, some of his workers were deported, and his wife required hospitalization. Jake, of course, wants justice, but soon learns how difficult that goal can be due to the \\"sovereign immunity\\" of government entities from legal action. His frustration mounts as his personal problems escalate and the dairy's economics rapidly deteriorate. The theme is accurately conveyed by the subtitle, \\"more than a body ought to bear\\". As Jake's frustration/depression increases, so does the reader's sense of foreboding that the resolution of Jake's search for justice will be replaced by a desire for vengenance.<br />The story is told in straightforward chronological fashion, in fact one of the effective techniques is that each chapter title consists of a calendar date to allow the reader to guage the passage of time. The novel nicely captures the aura of the rural Colorado home of the author; in it's beauty, it's relatively poor economy, the difficult nature of dairy farming, and the residual racism towards \\"meskin\\" laborers. While I recommend the book, it is a basically depressing story although some measure of rough justice and an element of hope does infuse the ending. My only real criticism is endemic to most books published by minor presses, there are a lot of typos and a much more thorough proofreading was needed. While the rating was a tough call, I decided to round up three and a half stars because therewere enough plot twists to keep my attention from waning. <br />For readers such as myself who are familiar with the frequent abuse of power by government agents (and who worry about the additional powers authorized by the Patriot Act), this book reads all too true. (Of course, the real conspiracy believers will argue that the author didn't go nearly far enough, and point to the raids where many innocent people have been mistakenly killed and property seized under the slimmest of pretexts using the nonforfeiture laws.) In summary, read this book not because it is a great work of literature but because fiction such as this is not only enjoyable for its own sake but also reminds us to contemplate the warning of George Washington that \\"like fire, government is a dangerous servant and a fearsome master\\".	2003-04-08
US	50223242	R1BV9Z301HD7NY	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	8	12	N	Y	Awesome! !  Action, Adventure, Religion, Science & History	I had been very impressed by DIGITAL FORTESS, Dan Brown's first novel, and found his treatment of a complex subject matter both knowledgeable and compelling. I had then missed the publication of ANGELS AND DEMONS, but felt that he had overplayed his hand in his third novel DECEPTION POINT, which started with an interesting premise but wandered into unnecessary complexity and violence and ultimately complete implausibilty. With the publication of THE DA VINCI CODE, upon learning that Robert Langdon is the central character in both DA VINCI and ANGELS, I decided to first read ANGELS in order to keep the stories in sequence. This is a mesmerizing page turner as long as you accept the author's central technological premises concerning scientific achievements in the near future.<br />Robert Langdon, a professor of iconography and religious symbology at Harvard, is awakened by a telephone call from Maximilian Kohler, head of a prestigious European scientific institute. One of Kohler's fellow scientists has been murdered and an ancient symbol burned into his chest. Langdon feels compelled to investigate, and soon finds himself in the midst of a plot involving not only the death of Leonardo Vetra, a priest who is the world's leading antimatter researcher, but of the revival of a centuries old vendetta by a secret society, The Illuminati, against the Catholic Church. Langdon is forced by circumstances and the nature of the threat to join forces with Vittoria Vetra, Leonardo's adopted daughter, in an attempt to uncover the Illumunati's secret and halt not only several additional murders which have been threatened but the destruction of The Vatican itself.<br />Incredibly, the entire story takes place within a time span of just over twelve hours, which adds to the compelling nature of the action. The book is typical Dan Brown, meticulously  researched (despite the complaints of a few reviewers about some details), with lots of interesting information about a variety of subjects related to religion, the Vatican, art, science and morality. It is a well constructed story, with several plot twists and enough misdirection to make it extremely difficult to anticipate the conclusion. (I doubt that the outcome was as expected by those critical reviewers who didn't finish the book after identifying their choice for the \\"obvious villian\\". I also did not feel that the story was at all anti- Catholic, in fact the author met with the Pope and was helped by the Vatican during his research efforts.) While there are several gruesome scenes, they are integral to the context of the story and the violence is usually minimized and only briefly described. <br />The real bonus of reading this story is the wonderfully well articulated discussion of the tension between science and religious faith, which forms the heart of the story. The last section of the book has a particularly insightful monologue in this regard, but the subject infuses the whole discussion woven into the plot concerning the historical conflict between the Illuminati and the Church. For instance, early in the book Vittoria challenges Langdon's evasion concerning his apparent lack of a belief in God with the observation \\"I did not ask if you believe what man says about God. I asked if you believed in God. There is a difference.\\"<br />In addition, the book is almost worth reading just for the ambigrams (words or phrases which read the same right side up or upside down) which Dan Brown had created. These are truly works of art and their design is incredibly clever and beautiful. Finally, if you are familiar with Philips Exeter Academy, the author's alma mater, you will also have the fun of recognizing the source of the names of several of the characters referenced in the book.	2003-04-02
US	50223242	R1O39DOS3U2IFO	0446530859	377934412	The Fifth Angel (Green, Tim)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	A Total Disappointment - They Should Have Saved The Trees	I have been a Tim Green fan and looked forward to this book with great anticipation after my enjoyment of LETTER OF THE LAW and especially THE FOURTH PERIMETER, which I highly recommend. I think the author chose a great title for his subject (the Biblical reference is explained in the book), and although the idea of vigilante justice has been previously examined by many authors Green's twist certainly seemed to have promise. However I am being kind to say his execution is pedestrian, there is no inspiration, surprise is totally lacking and furthermore his characters are really caricatures of themselves. There is no discussion or examination of the morality of the situation in which they find themselves. This is especially disappointing given the potential of the story to involve a recognition of the complexity of the issues involved and engage in a nuanced examination of those issues.<br />Jack Ruskin is a partner in a prestigious law firm and a former prosecutor whose fifteen year old daughter Janet is abducted and brutalized by a man who preys on young girls. Although she eventually escapes, she has been so traumatized that she is institutionalized in a near catatonic state. Without her testimony and the inadmissibilty of some evidence due to incorrect procedures utilized by the police, the perpetrator receives a minmal sentence. Jack considers himself responsible for her condition; he eventually becomes a psychopathic killer utilizing his knowledge of the law to locate and kill pedophiles who have committed similar crimes. He also understands police investigatory procedures and the rules of evidence so he manages to avoid detection for a while. <br />At the same time, FBI agent Amanda Lee, a specialist in apprending sexual perverts, solves a case but the death of another agent leaves her traumatized and questioning her ability to capably fulfill the dual roles of mother and professional investigator. And Jack develops a  romantic relationship with Beth, an adminstator at his daughter's facilty. This of course provides him with some psychological stabilty.<br />David McGrew, a young, ambitious and politically connected cop notices the pattern of murders commited by Ruskin and Amanda then gets assigned to work with him. Of course, they eventually track down Ruskin and a public debate ensues regarding the morality of his actions. Meanwhile, Amanda's family is threatened by the suspected partner of the suspect who she killed in the previous case.<br />There is an incredible sense of foreboding as the story hurtles towards its conclusion. Obviously a serial murderer such as Jack cannot overcome his complusion to fulfill his destiny, and by so doing he therefore will inevitably further hurt the daughter who so desperately needs his support and alienate Beth, his only life preserver.  However, miraculously  at the conclusion of  this very depressing story suddenly in a well telegraphed series of events everything ends well for the avenging angels Jack and Amanda and badly for the forces of evil.<br />This book could have been a meaningful examination of the tragic impact that sexual perverts have on children, the inadequacy of our current judicial system to deal with the problem, and the moral ambiguity of the choices faced by Jack and the law enforcement officers who pursued him (or in some case chose not to do so). But the only person whose actually understands that Jack's actions are not compatible with the rule of law in a civilized society is McGrew, who is otherwise the greatest caricature in the whole book. I find it appalling that an author who is actually a lawyer would conclude this book in the way that it ends, and hope that it was not just for profit but because of some experience that he had that deeply and perhaps understandably colored his view of the issues involved.<br />So as my title said, they wasted the paper it took to publish this. It is one of the few books that I have ever read that could only get more subtle and suspenseful as a TV movie. I will only read another Tim Green book if it gets rave reviews from reviewers who I trust. In the meantime, skip this and spend your time reading THE FOURTH PERIMETER.	2003-03-22
US	50223242	R3DLVE0DSD1IQ	1592400019	655636593	Authentically Black: Essays for the Black Silent Majority	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Superb Insights Into The Black Experience	I was very impressed by the observations of John McWhorter when I attended a speech he gave last fall regarding the topic covered in his previous book LOSING THE RACE. He was able to cogently expound upon his ideas not only in his prepared remarks but also in the give and take of the subsequent dialog with his audience. I find that the latter is often a much better indication of the depth of an author's convictions and familiarity with his subject (especially when faced with confrontational and hostile questioners). Thus, I was delighted that this collection of his recent essays was given to me by a friend and made reading it a priority as soon as I quickly perused the topics included in his commentary.<br />McWhorter is not only obviously intelligent, but also a keen observer and someone who can assimilate his observations and assemble disparate facts into a cohesive and consistent whole. The advantage that he then brings to his task is his background as a linguist. It allows him to wonderfully and precisely articulate his viewpoints regarding the role of race in black life and consciousness today. I found his presentation very helpful in furthering my understanding of the barriers which both races have to overcome to achieve true racial equality in America and the colorblind opportunity which was the dream that I was privileged to hear Martin Luther King espouse.<br />This is a book with which conservatives will have more agreement than liberals, but I believe that it will provide many insights (and probably some new facts as well) to anyone who approaches it with an open mind. And it certainly presents many opportunities for debate about significant issues influencing black opportunities for progress. As McWhorter admits, it is not intended to be a scholarly work, but it is clearly a work that benefits from his credentials as a scholar.<br />The central theme of the book is in the last few decades black Americans have adopted an ideology that has become couterproductive to their continued progress. This has been reinforced by black academicians and politicians for their own reasons and in order to maintain their power and leadership credentials; it might best be characterized as the politics of victimization. This involves the continual reinforcement of the attitude of hopeless occasioned by a belief that even though legalized discrimination has been eliminated, pervasive racism remains a roadblock preventing advancement rather than an occasional hurdle to be overcome. Thus reparations rather than opportunities are sought. He advances this viewpoint through an examination of several different aspects of society and the distorted lens through which the progress in these areas is viewed. His chapter on blacks in television and the media, entitled The \\"Can You Find The Stereotype\\" Game is a wonderful discussion of how preconceptions distort reality (which could only have been written by a self confessed TV addict such as McWhorter). Other powerful insights are provided in his discussion of \\"white guilt and university admissions\\", the debate over quotas to which he brings his informed perspective as a faculty member at the Berkeley campus of UC. Probably the most controversial chapter involves his criticism of the individuals annointed by the press as the current black leaders, Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton. <br />The two discussions most illuminating to me were the identification of what he labels \\"the new Black double consciousness\\" and the crucial role that profiling (even when justified) plays in this and his discussion as a knowledgeable academic of the Cornel West - Larry Summers widely reported face off at Harvard. These discusions helped more clearly formulate my opinions on these matters and while basically reinforcing my thoughts caused me to much more fully comprehend the importance of the issues involved.<br />Compared to most texts, this is a relatively easy book to read regarding such controversial public policy subjects. All relevant references are incorporated into the text, there are no distracting formats or obtuse formulations of obscure points. I did reread several paragraphs simply because they were so insightful and enjoyable, and I wanted to reinforce their impact on my thinking. And I have incorporated some of his phraseology into my discussions regarding these issues. for instance, one line I loved was the general belief of many liberals is the solution involves \\"government as savior\\", yet these people often reject the success that private and voluntary religious efforts have had in aiding the poor. And his phrase that the salad bowl has replaced the melting pot as the goal which many people now have for America actually captures both the problems we face and the disregard of the truth that there has never been a time in our history where there has been more cultural and racial interaction than the present. In this regard, he traces convincingly the influence of the musical tradition of Blacks on popular music over the last fifty years.<br />So I strongly rccommend this book for anyone interested in an articulate, informative discussion of the black experience in America today. Hopefully the dialog which the author and other members of his generation will engender will lead us to a better understanding of how to become a society in which all citizens feel that they are first and foremost Americans. The author's goal is not to convince his fellow Blacks that everything is perfect, but that a paradigm of hope and opportunity and an ethic of hard work is the best road to achieving the progress which will benefit us all individually and collectively.	2003-03-20
US	50223242	R30QD0AK2TF96P	0399149759	396777762	Flashback (Barr, Nevada)	Books	4	67	72	N	N	A Reluctant Four Stars	I recently began reading  Nevada Barr's books featuring Ranger Anna Pigeon at the suggestion of my daughter, her husband (they have both been rangers in the National Park Service) and my wife, all of whom have enjoyed the series. I enjoyed HUNTING SEASON  enough that I decided to read FLASHBACK, and as my review will make clear my reactions to the book were very ambivalent. The book involves Anna's decision to accept a temporary post at Dry Tortugas National Park located near Garden Key off the coast of Florida. We actually attended a talk and book signing for Nevada Barr recently; she revealed that the location for this story had been suggested to her by three different readers during a previous book tour. Thus, if you have any suggestions for her, I recommend that you locate the nearest stop on her current tour and feel confident that she will listen carefully to you.<br />Dry Tortugas Park consists primarily of Fort Wadsworth, a military fortress constructed prior to the civil war but utilized instead as a Union prison for reasons explained in the novel. In addition to Confederate Civil war prisoners, the Lincoln Conspirators were imprisoned there, and this fact is an integral part of the story. Anna is temporarily replacing the previous superintendent of the facility, who has been institutionalized after seeing apparitions and apparently suffering a nervous breakdown. Shortly after assuming her post, Anna begins to delve into the Fort's history through reading the letters of her great-great aunt Raffia, who lived at the Fort during the civil war while her husband was the military commandant of the prison. Two parallel mysteries unfold and need to be solved, one involving some mysterious events and disappearances described in the letters and one involving present day events. The unexplained explosion of a mysterious cigar boat in the waters near the Fort and accompanying loss of life lead to a series of incidents that endanger Anna and cause her to question her own sanity. Thus she is distracted from what she hoped would be a quiet assignment during which she could resolve her indecision about the proposal of marriage which she recently received from  sheriff and ex-priest Paul Davidson. Additional complexities eventually develop, including the real motivations of Anna's coworkers; given the closed and isolated nature of the post she suspects that recent deaths, disappearances and apparently illegal activities must involve the complicity of someone stationed at the Fort.<br />This is a very well plotted mystery, and the conclusion is very satisfying (altough a little contrived) as Anna unravels the threads of both the present day events and also finds a soluion to the unexplained occurrences  outlined in Raffia's letters. There are some really interesting characters, and their interaction with Anna is a joy at times. In addition, there are some observations that really ring true and are articulated quite enjoyably, for instance:<br />Anna mirrored my own frustration at times when she kept exchanging messages with a law enforcemant officer on the mainland and observed &quot;it seemed with each new invention developed to make communication easier- call waiting, forwarding, voicemail, pagers, cell phones - the more dificult it became to get in touch with anyone&quot;<br />or tourists at the Fort &quot;made the place mundane,{robbing it} of  mystery and romance&quot;.<br />And what a great personal insight, &quot;of the various neuroses, the one she most lusted after was the one that she could never quite attain&quot;.<br />Finally what a wonderful reply by Paul to her indecision concerning his marriage proposal and her question about its duration. &quot;It will stand forever. Maybe lean a little after eight hundred years like the Tower of Pisa, but it will still be standing.&quot;<br />So, why did I only reluctantly rate this book as high four stars, and not a glowing five stars? I found that the technique which the author used to weave the two stories together significantly inhibited my enjoyment. Anna's adventures are interspersed in alternate chapters with the letters of Raffia, which relate the events during the Civil War. Furthermore, many of the chapters end in the midst of very tense situations, while this seems somewhat natural in the case of the letters it seems totally contrived in Anna's situation. Thus, I found it very easy to put the book down since I knew the next chapter provided no continuity with what I had just read. This is just the opposite of what I expect from a good mystery, where I want to get so involved that I stay up late to keep reading. I was tempted to sometimes just skip ahead, but was never sure whether I would lose context by so doing. So I found the effort by the author interesting and credit her with the attempt to do something new, but in the end I found it unsatisfying and while it was intellectually interesting it detracted from my enjoyment of the story. And from both other reviews and the reaction of my wife and friends, I realize that my feelings are quite widely shared. So I recommend the book, but with the caveat that you should be prepared for this very unusual literary technique.	2003-03-19
US	50223242	R3MXLQKCXALPT2	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	5	19	26	N	N	An Excellent Spenser Book Despite The Death Of An Old Friend	As a reader who was introduced to Robert Parker and his Spenser detective novels by watching Robert Urich in the television series, I was saddened by Urich's death last year since in a way a part of the Spenser mystique for me had died with him. Thus, I was delighted that Spenser reappeared in BACK STORY, which  as the thirtieth book in the series seems to have refined the characters to their essence. And we also have Jesse Stone, the chief of the Paradise police department and the main character of three Parker novels, become periperally in this Spenser case as Parker devotees probably guessed was inevitable. (Will Sunny Randall be next?) <br />Paul Giacomin, a character in previous Spenser novels (and a surrogate son for Spenser) and now a successful playwright, visits Spenser with Daryl Silver, an actress and friend. While visiting Daryl's aunt in Boston twenty-eighty years ago (when Daryl was six years old), Daryl's mother Emily Gordon was murdered during a bank robbery by the Dread Scott brigade, an unknown revolutionary black power group reminiscent of the Black Panthers. The murder was never solved and the group members were never identified, and Daryl hopes Spenser will investigate the case so she can finally have closure. The police had hit a dead end, but of course Quirk still remembers it and would love to close an old case but isn't particularly hopeful regarding Spenser's chances of so doing. Things look even bleaker when it becomes apparent that all copies of the FBI file regarding the case have mysteriously disappeared.<br />As Spenser follows up on old leads, he is soon threatened (first verbally and then shot at my a group of hit men). Of course, the danger that first he and then Susan Silverman face mean that Hawk is an almost continual presence in this story, much to the delight of all true Spenser fans. The story includes almost all the usual cast of characters that have made this series so successful (in addition to Quirk, Hawk, and Susan - Vinnie Morris, Tay Bop and Frank Belson all have bit parts). We are introduced to Nathan Epstein, who is delightful in his essential role as Spenser's FBI liasion. The bad guys include both the mob and other assorted characters from Daryl's childhood years. None of them are likely to appear in future stories, especially since more than the usual quota meet their demise at the hands of Spenser and Hawk.<br />As Spenser gradually uncovers the truth and learns that it is not exactly as Daryl described, she becomes so emtionally distraught that she asks him to quit the case. However, since he had agreed to take the case as a favor to Paul and his only fee had been a box of Krispy Kreme donuts, he declines to end the investigation. Partially because he believes since he now has reopened the case that he and Susan will continue to be in danger unless it is solved, but also because as Susan observes using her fine psychoanalytical skills and thorough knowledge of Spenser's character (and reinforced by some wonderfully rich imagery from Hawk), he  \\"can't quit early... [he] has to know how it will turn out\\".<br />This book does not  present an especially difficult mystery for the reader to solve, as several of the elements of the solution are in fact telegraphed relatively early in the story. However, there are enough details which involve the usual misdirection to keep the interest of the reader. And some of the characters, such as the aging hippie who is Daryl's father and the associated imagery are wonderful. It also has some of  best dialog and psychological interplay between Spenser, Susan, and Hawk in any of the stories in the series. Over the years, their characters have grown comfortable with each other, in fact they have become among the most enjoyable characters in this genre. Both the male/female and black/white interplay is done in a meaningful and enjoyable manner. So, if you are a new Robert Parker reader, don't hesitate to start with this book although you will probably not enjoy it as much as those readers with an extensive  background in the series. And if you are already a fan, this is another excellent addition to the series, despite the death of another old friend besides Robert Urich.	2003-03-16
US	50223242	R1YRDKPN86YN5	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Very Different Subject Matter For James Patterson	This book is a strange blend of the quintessial James Patterson in format and pace with an entirely new type of story for him (as was the moving and enjoyable SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS). This is an historical novel based in medieval times, with the Crusades and French serfdom as the backdrop. It appears to accurately capture the nature of the times, with townspeople barely scratching out an existence while dependent for protection on the whims of the local nobles and their knights.<br />The central character is Hugh De Luc, an innkeeper in a small French village who leaves his wife Sophie to join the First Crusade to fight the infidels and free Jerusalem. The first section of the book graphically describes the hardships which he and his companions endured during their journey, and his lifechanging experience in Antioch which convinced him to end his journey and return home. Upon his eventual return he finds his village plundered and destroyed, the infant son previously unknown to him murdered and his wife kidnapped and believed dead. The remainder of the book involves Hugh's attempts to locate his wife (he believes that she is still alive) and mete out vengenance on those who are responsible for his son's death. <br />While near death after an encounter with a wild boar, Hugh is befriended by Emilie and her mistress Anne from neighboring Boree, which Anne rules while her husband Stephen is away fighting in the Crusade. Hugh attempts to develop a strategy for infiltrating neighboring Treille, a walled city ruled by the evil Baldwin, who is apparently responsible for Sophie's kidnapping. Emilie has the idea that Hugh can use his intelligence and natural talent for comedy to pose as a JESTER, and thus disguised Hugh resumes his search for Sophie. As you might assume since this is a James Patterson book, at this point the plot complications and misdirection begin. Hugh soon discovers that in fact one of the souvenirs that he brought home to France is perceived to beof great historical value and the prize sought by the Black Knights still wrecking havoc on the countryside and its inhabitants in their search for it. The latter parts of the book turn out to be not only an historical action/adventure but a philosophical examination of the role of individual freedom and private property that eventually transformed the nature of arrangements between nobles and the monarchy and their subjects and led to the adoption of the rule of law versus the rule of force. Hugh assembles an army of his friends and neighbors to first confront Baldwin of Treille and later Stephen of Boree (upon his return from the Crusade), and combines his insights with the knowledge and skills that he learned during the battles in which he participated to overcome superior odds and eventually prevail. Yet the style of Patterson and his co-author Andrew Gross keep the pace very rapid and the story interesting and fast moving. <br />There is an incredible amount of bloodshed, violence, vulgarity, and gore. These are obviously typical of the period and true to the experience of the Crusades, although much of the dialog seems much more attuned to our current patterns of speech than to the Middle Ages. The difference between the violence in this and some of Patterson's especially gory books is that it seemed essential to the plot and not carried to mindnumbing and gratuitous extremes. There is also the usual misdirection, although more obvious clues in some cases (such as Emilie's identity) than is usual for a Patterson story. In summary, Patterson's style and the short chapters and rapid pace of action actually hide the much more ambitious effort that this book represents. As an affirmation of the power of love and laughter, its overriding tone despite the violence is quite different from many of his other stories. And the fairy tale ending is very different from his usual conclusion, perhaps to offset this essentially accurate portrayal of the depressing nature of the history of the that time.<br />So, if you are a James Patterson fan, be prepared for something very different but just as engaging as his best work. And I certainly agree with the comments of other reviewers that this appears to be a prime candidate for an epic movie, I just hope that they manage to make it more that an historical adventure, as the authors have done. It is a fast paced easy read, but somewhat  longer and with a lot more to think about and enjoy than most of his books. So, if you want a detective story, look elsewhere; and if you want a serious  historical novel with carefully drawn characters and slow paced action examining the time in great detail, you will also certainly be disappointed. But if you want a story to read on the train or plane, during a vacation, or while relaxing before bed, this is well worth your time.	2003-03-15
US	50223242	RNGB5TJA8AG7V	0345443268	327363343	Silent Partner	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	A Real Page Turner - Fast Paced If Unbelievable Action	Angela Day, the central character of this story, has managed to overcome a life of poverty and tragedy to to create a rewarding career as a respected lending officer with Sumter Bank in Richmond, VA. However she is still haunted by the death of Sally Chambers, her childhood friend and college roommate, during their senior year at the university. (It is a central element of the story that Angela is white and Sally was black.) Over a decade later, Angela still feels reponsible for the circumstances of Sally's death and the racism that was responsible for the tragic incident; this experience has imbued her with a deep seated hatred of the residual traces of racism that still may be shared by some of the top managers of her bank. Thus, she has chosen to help Liv Jefferson, a local reporter, unearth material for an expose concerning the lending practices of Sumter bank.<br />The other major regret in Angela's life is her divorce from Sam Reese, the son Chuck Reese, one of Richmond's wealthiest men and a sworn enemy of Bob Dudley, the chairman of Sumter Bank. Chuck believed Sam married beneath himself and convinced Sam to divorce Angela and marry into society. He also arranged for Sam to win the custody case for their six year old son Hunter, so that Angela has minimal visitation rights and is fearful that her relationship with Hunter will deteriorate as he grows up with the advantages that the Reese family can offer him.<br />Suddenly, an opportunity is offered for Angela to advance her career and regain custody of Hunter at the same time. She is summoned to a secretive meeting in Wyoming with the reclusive multi-billionaire Jake Lawrence to be his go-between and do due diligence for an acquisition that he wants to consummate. Jake Lawrence has also been acquiring an ownership interest in Sumter Bank, and Bob Dudley and his management team become paranoid that Angela (who has been sworn to secrecy by Jake) is really helping Jake prepare for a takeover of Sumter. Soon itbecomes evident not only that Jake Lawrence has to fear for his life given the powerful enemies that he has created, but that Angela has taken on an assignment that has put her in serious danger as well. Thus Jake's ranch foreman and trusted lieutenant John Tucker is commissioned as Angela's aide and bodyguard.<br />The above description only gives the most elementary outline of the complexity of this story. The author's familiarity with the financial world allows him to provide enough detail to allow the reader to develop the necessary understanding of corporate takeovers and financial maneuvering to make the individual elements of the plot believable. And the only error that I noted in this regard was referring to the key decision elements of leading edge predictive software as logarithms rather than algorithms. The key to my enjoyment of this story was the complexity of the plot, the many separate but interrelated (and in the end essential) story lines, and the incredible misdirection. In many ways reading this is like trying to anticipate the next development in a detective story. The clues are there, but most evident only in retrospect. (Although I was successful in anticipating the story in a few instances.) However, despite the fact that the roles of many of the characters are not what they seem, after reading the conclusion I felt that I had been mislead unfairly in just one instance.<br />In conclusion, I found this book to be a real page turner. While the elements involving financial markets were the centerpiece of the story, this was more action filled and concerned with personal relationships and questions of ethics and morality than Frey's other books. The character development is adequate for his purposes but certainly not the reason to read the story. I recommend this book strongly, my only reason for not rating it five stars is that while the story was cohesive and internally consistent, the combination of all the elements makes it necessary for thereader to suspend belief as the layers of complexity are revealed.	2003-02-20
US	50223242	R1EIGLOZ5ZQUWH	0847825043	620431349	The Rage and the Pride	Books	4	29	37	N	Y	Worth Reading - 5 Stars for Passion, 3 Stars for Translation	This is an impassioned and at times bitter diatribe directed at those Europeans (and particularly Italians) who either excuse the Muslim extremists whose goal is to destroy Western (especially US) culture or who are afraid to criticize them because of the supposedly religious nature of their beliefs. The attack on the twin towers of The World Trade Center caused celebrated columnist Oriana Fallaci to break her silence of the past ten years in order to voice her rage and her pride (in the values of Western culture). The book was a best seller and created an uproar and enormous debate when published in Italy and subsequently in other European countries.<br />Fallaci chose to translate the English language version herself in order to be true to her thoughts. While it clearly is effective in conveying the depth of her feelings, she would have been better served using a translator and then being her own editor. The book is a rambling stream of consciousness discussion of the events of 9/11 in the context of her life experiences (including as an Italian during WWII and her numerous interviews with world leaders including heads of several Muslim countries). The perspective which she has gained from these experiences imbue her passionate call to the West for a recognition of the nature of the current struggle with Islamic fundamentalists.<br />Fallaci has been accused of being racist, but as she correctly responds this book is about religion and culture, not race. It is about her claim that the goal of bin Laden and radical Islam (not Arabs) is to destroy our civilization and our way of life. They do not want to coexist, they want to destroy. Her insights are very interesting, especially her knowledge of Buddhism gained from her interview with the Dalai Lama and her contrast of that religious leader with many Islamic clerics. There are many boring and overdone passages, and she repeats much of her family history in unnecessary detail in order to provide background for her personal perspective.<br />Thus, while the book is very uneven, it is definitely a worthwhile read (and quite short). Her attack on moral relativism is first rate, and the insight and analysis which she brings to her subject reminds us of why she was such an acclaimed (and controversial) journalist. She takes accurate aim on the appeasers, cowards and pseudo-intellectuals who fail to recognize the dangers of the current situation and seem doomed to repeat history; her passionate defense of the benefits of freedom and liberty is first rate and almost lyrical at times. As she succinctly observes, \\"Memory may fade, hypocrisy may win, but History cannot be cancelled...It can be ignored or forgotten,yes. It can be falsified as Big Brother does in Orwell's novel, but it cannot be cancelled.\\" So read this call to action based on Fallaci's historical insights; then decide if you agree with her.personal perspective.<br />Thus, while the book is very uneven, it is definitely a worthwhile read (and quite short). Her attack on moral relativism is first rate, and the insight and analysis which she brings to her subject reminds us of why she was such an acclaimed (and controversial) journalist. She takes accurate aim on the appeasers, cowards and pseudo-intellectuals who fail to recognize the dangers of the current situation and seem doomed to repeat history; her passionate defense of the benefits of freedom and liberty is first rate and almost lyrical at times. As she succinctly observes, \\"Memory may fade, hypocrisy may win, but History cannot be cancelled...It can be ignored or forgotten,yes. It can be falsified as Big Brother does in Orwell's novel, but it cannot be cancelled.\\" So read this call to action based on Fallaci's historical insights; then decide if you agree with her.	2003-02-17
US	50223242	R30P5H2OBP8CBL	0525947051	489134276	The First Law: An Abe Glitsky/Dismas Hardy Mystery	Books	4	14	16	N	N	WHO WILL REMAIN ALIVE BY THE END OF THIS STORY ?	THE FIRST LAW is the latest book in the series involving San Francisco lawyer Dismas (Diz) Hardy and police lieutenant Abe Glitsky. However, it is neither a legal thriller or courtroom drama as the earlier books have been, but is a straight police procedural (with  the investigation handled in a totally inept way) interspersed with fast paced action. Glitsky has recovered from the severe wounds suffered in THE OATH, but has been replaced as head of the Homicide Unit during his recuperation and is now head of payroll. When his father's best friend is murdered during a robbery at his pawnshop, Glitsky soon finds his requests and suggestions during the investigation are viewed as interference and an attempt to regain his former position. Meanwhile, the detectives in charge uncover evidence that points to a good friend and former client of Diz, John Holiday.<br />As subsequent murders occur and Hardy uncovers evidence that calls into question Holiday's guilt, he tries to convince an increasingly reluctant Abe to enlist the help of the police and subsequently their mutual friend DA Clarence Jackman. However, these leads point in the direction of the family of Wade Panos, the politically well connected head of the Patrol Special, a private SF police force which has been the source of much of the information being used to develop the case against Holiday. Concomitantly, Hardy and his long time mentor and associate David Freeman are pursing a multimillion dollar civil case against Panos and his organization (and also the police department as their liaison) based on allegations of brutality and evidence tampering. Thus, when apparently conclusive evidence against Holiday appears and Holiday subsequently disappears, Hardy is viewed as having lost all credibilty because of his conflict of interest. Further murders and violence incidents occur, eventually both the Hardy and Glitsky families are directly threatened.<br />This story is filled with the characters that we have cometo know through the course of the previous books, including Diz' wife Frannie and kids Rebecca and Vincent, his brother-in-law Moses McGuire, Treya Glitsky, and Gina Roake. They and their relationships are further developed and are an integral element of this story. The reader has to accept the premise that police investigators can be so totally misled, and the compounding of their errors is extremely frustrating at times. However, the story proceeds in a way that is totally internally consistent, and it will immediately resonate with any reader who has either has experienced police incompetence/malfeasance or knows someone who has.<br />In the author's preface preceding the story, Lescroart acknowledges the inspiration derived from  BLOODY SEASON, a book about the gunfight at the OK Corral. THE FIRST LAW then begins with a brief scene involving Diz and Moses that takes place chronologically very near the end of the story, and that effectively creates the tension that will build for the rest of the book with regard to whether the faith in the law upon which Hardy and Glitsky have relied their entire lives is misplaced. Midway through page three  Moses defines \\"the first law\\" for Diz as \\"you protect your life and the people you love\\", and we immediately are aware that this story may well end with the modern day equivalent of the OK Corral shootout. Thus, there is never any real mystery of who the murderers and criimnals are, although there are a few minor surprises. The real question is who will be left standing and who might suffer collateral damage, and it is not pretty. In fact, even several of the good guys and long time characters in the series are not immune from the violence which results from the original botched robbery and murder. <br />So, if you want an action filled story with some legal twists and are a fan Hardy and Glitsky, you should like this book.	2003-02-10
US	50223242	R1FQFLTF68EHTT	0743202708	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	GO OLLIE !   A Fun Read But No Real Mystery Here	This book is for all Ed McBain and police procedural fans, but if you have not read MONEY MONEY MONEY you should read that first because this is a direct sequel. Detective (Fat Ollie) Weeks is the first detective on the scene to investigate the murder of  councilman Lester Henderson, who was considering a run for mayor. The murder actually occurs in the 88th precinct where Ollie is stationed, but this becomes the next book in the 87th precinct series because Henderson lived in the 87th and (despite the reluctance of their lieutenant) Ollie decides to enlist the help of detectives Steve Carella and Bert Kling, with whom he worked in the MONEY MONEY MONEY case. The murder is solved in a straightforward way (with the unintentional help of the murderer), but that is background to the main story and almost incidental.<br />This is not FAT OLLIE'S BOOK just because he was lead detective on the case, but also because he had just finished his manuscript for the dectective story which he had decided to write during his and Carella's previous case. As he was investigating the Henderson murder, his briefcase with his only copy of REPORT TO THE COMMISSIONER (written using the pen name Olivia Wesley Watts) was stolen from his car. Thus, Ollie is simultaneosly trying to retrieve his manuscript and apprehend the murderer. We revisit not only Carella, Kling and Ollie, but several other characters from previous books, including the Reverend Gabriel Foster, and detective Eileen Burke, a previous love interest of Kling who gets assigned to the 87th in a move that threatens to complicate his relationship with Deputy Chief Surgeon Sharyn Cook. And we meet Officer Patricia Gomez, to whom Oliie becomes attracted in the process of Gomez helping Ollie solve the case. We gradualy get to read Ollie's manuscript interpersed with the Henderson case through a clever device which McBain adopts which introduces another complication and very funny thread to the book.<br />Ollie remains his bigotedself, and this element plays an integral role in the story. It is carried to such extremes that it is at times hilarious, but not, of course, for the targets of his bigotry. And it does remind us of how such attitudes lurk just below the surface in many organizations. Before reading very far into the book I decided that it was to be read in a lighthearted way, sort of a parody of mystery writers, detective stories, bigots, racial agitators, drug addicts, and homosexuals. From this viewpoint, it was a fun, very fast read, while further developing the characters with which I was already familiar as an avid McBain reader. While I loved the cleverness of the idea of parallel cases for Ollie as  the basis of this book,  a few unanswered questions (which would reveal too much of the plot) and the (perhaps intentional) superficiality of the story kept me from giving it a five star rating.	2003-01-30
US	50223242	R37BLW4DKEOZOO	0399148787	222942872	The Arraignment (Paul Madriani Novels)	Books	3	24	24	N	N	For Paul Madriani Fans  -  Probably A Better Movie Than Book	If you are a Steve Martini - Paul Madriani fan, this latest book is worth your time but not up to his best work. If you are a new reader and are looking for legal mysteries that involve complicated cases and courtroom strategies, I would suggest that you read some of Martini's other books first. If you like action adventure with some legal twists, then you will enjoy this book and probably rate it four stars. <br />Nick Rush, friend and lawyer at a prestigious San Diego firm, approaches Paul Madriani to take on Gerald Metz, a client who supposedly poses a conflict of interest for Nick. After a conference with Metz, Paul declines and Metz and Nick are soon gunned down in front of the courthouse prior to Metz's grand jury testimony. Dana, Nick's trophy wife, requests that Paul investigate her insurance benefits, and interesting legal manueuvering ensues between Nick's employer, the insurance carrier, Dana, and Nick's former wife. This is vintage Paul Madriani (and Harry Hinds, his partner), clever and interesting. It also intoduces us to Adam Tolt, managing partner of Nick's firm whose apparent attempts to protect the firm's reputation and replace Nick lead to several interesting developments.<br />For various reasons including loyalty to his dead friend and inconsistencies regarding the events concerning Nick's death, Paul (with reluctant help from Harry) decides to supplement the police homicide investigation with his own efforts. Eventually additional violence ensues, and Paul and Adam follow the confusing trail of Metz and Nick and the other assorted unsavory individuals that Paul has unearthed to Mexico. While any of the individual incidences of violence and danger might be believable, the cumulative effect defies belief. Of course, almost nothing is what it appears, and misdirecton is rampant, both for the reader and the participants. Paul repeatedly and often unnecessarily puts himself in incredibly perilous situations, and often his escapes defy belief. This seems totally out of keeping with his character in previous books, especially given his concern for his role as sole parent for his daughter since the death of his wife. It almost seems as if Martini was writing this book with the goal of maximizing it's potential as a movie project and wanted to create additional complexity and action a la James Patterson. <br />While almost all the loose ends are tied together in the final chapter, and while the action and several clever plot twists kept me totally involved, my final reaction was one of disappointment. Steve Martini can undoubtedly write a good altough implausible action-adventure story, and the major elements of this story were well thought out. But I was in the end let down not just because it was not what I expected as a Paul Madriani fan, but because the result of the attempt to meld the two genres (legal mystery and action story) was less than the sum of the parts. It suffered from the conclusion being both unbelievable and complex, and my reaction upon finishing the book was disappointment even though in some ways justice and right prevailed.	2003-01-23
US	50223242	R25B7HBNFMA0MZ	0312313195	221999323	Sons of Fortune (Archer, Jeffrey)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	AN ABSORBING STORY  with a disappointing ONE STAR ENDING	This is an well crafted, well researched novel by the master storyteller Lord Jeffrey Archer that I decided to read immediately because of its special interest to me. It is a tale of destiny and fortune that spans the last half of the twentienth century, and is fast paced and foreboding. It is set in Connecticut, with the birth of two twins who are separated at birth and raised in disparate circumstances by parents who are unaware of the switch which occurred in the hospital nursery. (Of course, the reader's knowledge of the situation and desire to to see how the resultant issues are finally resolved is one of the compelling aspects of the book.)<br />Nathaniel Cartwright grows up with his middle class parents, an insurance salesman and schoolteacher. They all believe that his twin brother Peter died shortly after birth. Meanwhile, only two individuals are aware of the fact that the baby who leaves the hospital as Fletcher Andrew Davenport, son of a millionaire and major benefactor of the hospital, is in reality Peter Cartwright. We follow their lives as they grow up in CT. <br />Nat wins a scholarship to Taft, meets his lifelong friend Tom Russell, attends the University of Connecticut and eventually serves in Vietnam. Also, while at Taft Nat first opposes Ralph Elliot for school president, whose cunning and manipulative ways will influence both Nat's and Fletcher's lives in unforeseen ways. Meanwhile, Fletcher attends rival Hotchkiss, meets Jimmy Gates, son of a state Senator and eventually goes to Yale and studies law. Their stories seem to alternately move in parallel and then diverge as their fortunes rise and fall. After initial careers in NYC they both return to CT., Nat as a banker and Fletcher as a criminal defense attorney; as befitting a saga  of this type they both become devoted husbands and fathers as well. As their careers proceed, it seems inevitable they they will both eventually run for public office.<br />This is a story that does a very good jobof capturing the era. In fact, it is divided into seven books, and the very aptly chosen titles clearly indicate the author's intent for this to be a major literary work - GENESIS, EXODUS, CHRONICLES, ACTS, JUDGES, REVELATION, and NUMBERS. This book is of special interest to me. I was born and raised in CT, won a scholarship to a New England prep school and also attended college There. And now my wife and I once again live there, in close proximity to Taft and Hotchkiss. The narrative rings true to the time and locale. Even the politics are relatively accurate.  <br />It took me a short while to get used to a story written totally in the third party, but after a few chapters I was completely involved. The story moves rapidly and continually between the two protagonists' lives; I almost hesitated to start the book (503 pages, not 400  as indicated), but it read very rapidly. The juxtaposition of the lives is very effective, but be warned, this is story, not a book of personal reflection and psychological insights.<br />I became increasingly involved, and several of the climactic developments during during the last few sections took me by complete surprise. I was tremendously impressed by the author's ability to weave a tale. If, I had had to guess at my rating with twenty pages to go it probably would have been five stars. Then, total disppointment. The last section seems excruiatingly slow, totally predictable, and completely unsatisfying and unrealistic. It is inexplicable; perhaps Sir Archer felt the story had been so good that the reader would accept a conclusion that basically says life goes on, but that is not the mark of a great story teller. <br />A few other minor complaints. First, for as meticulous research as was done, it is surprising that two of the towns involved in political events were Ipswich and Chelsea, both of which are in reality in Massachusetts rather than CT. (Any map or atlas would have shown this.) Second, at a crucial point the vote for the two candidates on page 498 is sloppily transposed. Last, the final election scenario is riduculous for 1992, and the consultation regarding the election outcome indicates an utter lack of knowledge of the difference between federal and state authority in elections. (This is too bad since I am quite a political junkie and most of the political background and maneveuring and mind numbing attention to detail of political campaigns was very accurately portrayed.)<br />So, if you like good stories of a broad sweep, read and enjoy SONS OF FORTUNE. You will be entertained (and surprised), but I suspect that like me you will also feel that the conclusion is an anticlimax. However, perhaps you won't care, especially if you are a confirmed Jeffrey Archer fan.	2003-01-07
US	50223242	R29D3E61L4OUE9	097189860X	5595303	The Fractal Murders (Pepper Keane Mysteries)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A GREAT STORY - Don't worry about the fractals	Seldom do you feel like a book has been specifically written for you, especially when it is a first novel by an unheralded author published by Muddy Gap Press in Boulder, CO. However, in my quest for mysteries by new authors I was intrigued by the uniformly glowing reviews for THE FRACTAL MURDERS, and after the first two paragraphs I knew that I was hooked.<br />This is hopefully the first in a series of Pepper Keane mysteries, a former prosecutor turned PI as he deals with his existential anxieties by reading Heidegger, listening to country music and Credence Clearwater, running and working out at his brother's gym, and hanging out with two great dogs in his mountain Colorado home, and hoping for enough interesting cases to support himself. And a mathematical and business angle to boot, two things with which I am familiar enough to increase my appreciation of the story but not essential to your enjoyment. ( The author's explanations are very clear and concise and a detailed understanding is not at all crucial to the story line.)<br />Doctor Jane Smymers, a professor at the Boulder campus of the University of Colorado learns of the recent apparently unrelated deaths of three specialists in fractal mathematics, and her knowledge of statistics convinces her that the provbabilty of these being random events is extremely small. She involves the FBI but is dissatisfied with their decision to close the case, having found no relationship between the individuals, the modes of death being very dissimilar, and the geographic locations being widespread (East Coast, West Coast, and midwestern college campuses). Despite his reservations, Jane convinces Pepper to conduct a preliminary investigation of his own, and his interest is heightened by the fact that one of the FBI agents on the case is someone whose history is a source of great aggravation to Pepper. <br />The author is a former JAG lawyer and now a municipal court judge in Boulder, so he knows the law, the FBI, and the area, and captures the essence of them all. He never writes down to the reader, and we get to feel that Pepper is someone who we would enjoy getting to know. (A western version of Robert Parker's Spenser with more existential angst.) And, as you may guess, Pepper becomes increasingly attracted to Jane and this plot line adds another dimension to the story.<br />A few examples of some of the great lines,<br />\\"A girlfriend once told me that I spent too much time thinking about things. I'd thought about that a lot over the years.\\"<br />\\"How was Wall Walla?\\" asked Scott. \\"It's the city so beautiful they named it twice.\\"<br />\\"This trip has been a real education,\\" Scott said. \\"First I find out that there's a National Forest in Nebraska. Now I learn that there are black squirrels in Kansas.\\"  \\"I think that the politically correct term is 'squirrels of color'.\\" <br />And one last thing, you'll have to read the book to discover how to communicate in E-Prime. A true delight, a real education , and a good mystery all in the same book..It was so involving that I had to keep reading it to find out how it ended, but I was enjoying it so much I was disappointed when I was done that I would have to wait for the next volume. Definitely as highly recommended as anything that I have read in the last year, even if your interests are not as closely aligned with the subject matter as mine. If you like clever wordplay, fun characters, and mystery, you'll like this book.	2003-01-03
US	50223242	R5IZQQVLFMJHO	0394820371	595713080	The Phantom Tollbooth	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Masterpiece - For All Ages - Totally Captivating	I cannot believe that I did not have the incredible enjoyment that I received from reading this book until I was sixty years old. My only consolation is that it is occasional finds like this book that help keep me young; what a tremendous treat! Normally I would not bother to review a book with so many glowing reviews (almost 300 as I write this), but in this case I guess that I probably suffer from the same compulsion as many of the other reviewers to share this wonderful find with as many other friends as possible who may have also somehow overlooked it. When the anniversary edition of THE PHANTOM TOLLBOOTH was published six years with an introduction by Maurice Sendak (WHERE THE WILD THINGS ARE was one of my favorite books to read to my growing children), someone sent it to me and I put it in that large \\"to read \\"pile but somehow never got around to it. After all, after thirty five years what could the hurry be. A few days ago, I was looking for a quick fun read and picked it up; the rest is history, I couldn't put it down until I was finished. Perfect, including the great illustrations by Jules Feiffer. I start telling my wife all the great lines, but realized that it was so good that I didn't want to spoil it for her.<br />This is the story of Milo, the boy bored with life whose worldview is suddenly changed forever when he visits the lands on the other side of the phantom tollbooth. He ends up traversing the foothills of confusion, the sea of knowledge, the mountains of ignorance and Dictionopolis ( a kingdom of words) and Digitopolis (a kingdom of numbers) as he searches for the sisters Rhyme and Reason. And seldom have we met a companion as delightful as TOCK, who is, of course, a literal \\"watch dog\\" in a world where words mean what they say.<br />The word play is so wonderful and the characters so self explanatory (e.g. the Mathemagician or the Soundkeeper in the Silent Valley), that the profunditry and power of the insights contained in this simple tale can easily be overlooked. Hopefully, an illustration will help, as Milo, Tock and their friend The Humbug travel along, they unexpectedly find themselves in a strange place:<br /> \\"To be sure \\" said Canby, \\"you're on the Island of Conclusions. Make yourself at home. You're apt to be here for some time.\\"<br /> \\"But how did we get here?\\" asked Milo, who was still a bit puzzled by being there at all.<br /> \\"You jumped, of course\\" explained Canby. \\"That's the way most everyone gets here.\\"<br />So don't jump to a conclusion that you have better things to do than read a children's book, since this book is for anyone who is young at heart; in fact, the longer that you have lived the more that you will recognize the power of its simple yet sophisticated truths. And even if you are not as totally capitivated as I was, the word play and just pure fun make it worthwhile. And it is a very fast read. Only one flaw that I spotted, which as a former math major I cannot resist including a comment. The author doesn't know the rules of  math, one long equation does not sum to zero as claimed, so just accept this and continue with the story rather than let it distract you as it did me.<br />Please read this book, unless you are too busy and too serious to have fun. No wonder it has become a classic, and good ideas  should always be shared, especially when they are this enjoyable.I only hope that after you finish reading this book that you share my excitement and feel as compelled it to share it with others as I now do.	2003-01-03
US	50223242	RE497RNVMH7UR	0679449310	489706931	Bad Chemistry	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A REALLY INTENSE PAGE TURNER DESPITE A FEW FLAWS	This is an excellent first novel, apparently quite different from the earlier published short stories of the author. At times it is dark and troubling; an air of foreboding and the potential for evil enveloped this reviewer as I read the book. The author uses words well, and the story proceeds at a rapid pace to the conclusion. As sometimes happens, I had seen it while browsing and decided to purchase it since I am always on the lookout for new authors. But once I put it on the bookshelf I had no urgency in reading it and obviously got distracted by new novels. But I am certainly glad I finally picked it up and notice that the author has subsequently written some more novels that have gotten good reviews. Perhaps some of the readers of those interested in his earlier works will find this helpful.<br />This book begins with a creepy misfit, fourteen year old Evan Potter (in the throes of adolescent uncertainty about his identity) keeping his discovery of a headless corpse in the woods near his home a secret. It then immediately shifts to a introduction of Kate and Joel Baker, who are throwing a dog birthday party for their German Sheperd Hermann. When tragedy mysteriously strikes during the party and Joel then fails to return from a supposedly quick trip to the grocery store, we soon surmise that these two seemingly separate events may be related. As Kate stuggles to deal with her husband's disappearance, she is aggravated by the initial skepticism of the police thay foul play was involved. Thus, by the time the corpse is reported to the police and identified as an associate of her husband, and evidence of illegal drug activity is unearthed, she has alienated the authorities to the extent that she is considered a suspect. Meanwhile, we gradually learn Kate and her husband were quite an odd couple who married only three years ago after a whirlwind courtship shortly after her move to DC to begin a new career. He was a counterculture student turned businessman who ran an importing firm, and as his mother told Kate \\"had no repect for fences\\", physical or legal. Kate's background could not have been more different - Kate Theodorus, formerly a Chicago cop from a family of cops and with brothers still on the force.<br />Kate soon discovers that her husband apparently led a double life, and the truth and nature of their whole relationship is called into question. And as the danger mounts and intrigue deepens, in a wonderful description she finds herself becoming \\"proto-Kate, a discontinued model. But now... she wondered how much things had really changed. Here she was again, loading up, giving herself the power to do harm.\\" As she wonders if she will now have to kill, something she never did while a cop, we get some powerful insights into human emotions and relationships. <br />Kate and Evan eventually use their skills to unravel the mystery and track Joel and his former college friend and gradually discover their location and the secrets of their relationship. And Kate has to confront the ambivalence between her feelings as a former cop about illicit drugs and her husband's belief in the right of each individual to control the substances which they choose to put in their own bodies. The twists and turns are rapid, and the psychological profiles of Kate and Evan very well drawn.<br />I really wrestled with my rating, and almost made it five stars. I was captivated by the book, and stayed up late to finish reading it. And I really liked Kate and hope she reappears in another book. However, the following flaws bothered me. First, some of the actions by Kate, Evan, the police, and the other characters were a little too unbelievable (even when made in the immediacy of the moment under duress). Also, on a few occasions Kate's discovery of certain items of evidence seemed a little too convenient (especially the videotape). I accepted these aspects and kept reading, but they just didn't ring true. Second, Joel's character perhaps would have benefitted by being fleshed out a little; except very briefly at the start and finish, we only glimpsed him thru Kate's eyes. Third, I found the ending vaguely unsatisfying - a little unbelievable and somewhat of an anticlimax. But if you like thrillers that are more than the usual action and delve into the lives and thoughts of some weird and interesting characters, I recommend this book as an excellent read.	2002-12-08
US	50223242	RSUQX45R1ZBRL	1930865279	363421446	Toward Liberty: The Idea That Is Changing the World	Books	5	13	15	N	N	IDEAS HAVE CONSEQUENCES - 50 of the best essays from Cato	This book is a collection of some of the best speeches, public policy reports, and articles published by The Cato Institute in its twenty five years of existence. It has been edited by David Boaz, executive vp of Cato and author and editor of several other books regarding libertarianism. Cato is a public policy institute headquartered in DC that promotes limited government, free markets, peaceful coexistence and a return to the rule of law as envisioned by our founders, especially Madison and Jefferson. While this political philsophy is generally known as libertarianism, it is more correctly labeled the dominance of civil rather than political society. As a disclaimer, this reviewer has been a member of the Board of Directors of Cato for fifteen years and regards David Boaz as a friend; however, those who know me will vouch that I have been an vocal critic of Cato on those occasions where I have disagreed with its policy positions. Therefore, despite my position, I believe that my review provides a useful summary of this book.<br />The editor provides an introduction which attempts to summarize the changes in the political landscape over the past quarter century and concludes that classical liberalism is on the ascendancy after a century of many failed experiments in statism.The book is then divided into nine topics with several selections for each topic - these are Ideas and Consequences (3 articles), Economic Growth (3 articles), The Welfare State (5), The Regulatory State (4), A World In Transition (11), Foreign Affairs (4), Trade And international Finance (4), Law And Liberty (8), and Democracy And Culture (8). Read in order, which few readers will probably do due to both time constaints and lack of interest in some of the topics, the book provides both a wonderful retrospective on the  changes in the political debate over the past twenty five years and also serves as a comprehensive overview of the relevance of these ideas today. The authors include such well known figures as Milton Friedman, Alan Greenspan, an interview with F.A. Hayek, Dick Armey, Lord Peter Bauer, Jose Pinera and Antonin Scalia, but regardless of the fame of the author all pieces are both enlightening and intellectually stimulating. P.J O'Rourke's brief comments at the dedication of Cato's current headquarters, titled \\"THe Right To Do As You Please And Take The Consequences\\" even adds some trenchant and well directed wit to the collection. The longest piece is only fourteen pages and several are only three pages in lenghth, so while some of the topics are difficult if the ideas are new to the reader any can be digested in a single session.  <br />It is impossible to chose a few favorites, although I thought the strongest topic was the collection regarding law and liberty; perhaps that is only due to my intense interest in the area and my belief that a return to the Constitutional protections of life, liberty and property are essential to our continued freedom. And I do strongly recommend that everyone read the article by Scalia (as a judge on the Court of Appeals) and the brilliant critique and reply by Ricahard Epstein.  For some added flavor, some of the other articles include \\"The Case For US Stategic Independence\\" (Ted Carpenter), \\"Myths Of Individualism\\" (Tom Palmer), \\"Are Libertarians Anti-Government\\" (David Boaz), and \\"Enviro-Capitalism Vs. Enviro-Statism\\" (Terry Anderson and Donald Leal).<br />In conclusion, this book is for anyone who cares about the advancement of liberty and wants to sharpen their understanding of the topics which it covers. If you want to understand these ideas, whether to argue for or against them, there is no comparable collection that covers them so succinctly and states them so well by their most ardent proponents. N.B., the book is 460 pages long, not the 250 indicated in the description, and all the material is worthwhile but it is a long read that has to be accomplished gradually.	2002-12-03
US	50223242	R26GJEREVLUUYH	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Worthwhile and Compelling Read But Far From His Best Book	Ever since I read THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN  shortly after its publication in 1969, I have been a Michael Crichton fan and have always eagerly awaited his next book. And PREY IS QUINTESSENTIAL MICHAEL CRICHTON, a story to tell and a message to get across. He begins with an introduction that discusses the recent advances in technology and warns of his concerns regarding their dangers. (Just as JURASSIC PARK was not only a great story, but a book about the possible abuses of cloning.)<br />Unfortunately, while I have enjoyed several of his recent works, in my estimation few of them, including this one, fulfill the promise of the his first novel. First, his recent books seem to be written primarily to become movies, in fact this one is almost indistinguishable from a film script. (And it could be a five star movie, but book readers need more detail and character development.) Second, as the review by Roger Buffington indicates, as I understand the technologies involved, the events in this story are highly improbable and some crucial developments go unexplained. (I cannot describe them in detail without giving away the plot.) Third, while the author attempted to clear up a lot of the loose ends in the final chapter, I found the conclusion to be relatively unsatisfactory.<br />The story opens with Jack Forman, an unemployed computer programmer and software engineer, playing the role of Mr. Mom while his wife Julia pursues her career at Xymos Technologies. She is a former venture capitalist turned corporate vp in charge of a top secret apparently \\"bet the company\\" project in which Xymos is engaged. The project involves biotechnolgy, nanotechnology, massively parallel computer processing systems and extensive software development of learning algorithms. As the project nears deadline, the pressure on Julia intensifies, and as their relationship deteriorates Jack suspects that she may be having an affair with someone at the company lab where she is spending an increasing amount of time. The project goes seriously awry, and Jack is called in as a consultant and soon learns the ominous truth. The machine has mutated and escaped from the lab and is acting as a lethal virus that has the potential not only to murder the lab employees but infect the human race. Nothing is as it first appears, and the race against time begins to halt the spread of the virus.<br />This is a true techno thriller and very fast paced. All the action takes place within seven days, and in fact in a very effective technique the chapter breaks consist of discrete rapidly moving time segments in sequential order. Thus, despite my reservations I found the book hard to put down until I had finished it, which is one of the reasons why I decided after much reflection it deserved as high as a four star rating. Also, the discussions of the technologies involved were quite interesting and well done. I am familiar in concept with several of them and found this part of the book very enjoyable. (However, if you are not scientifically literate, you will have to either skim them and accept the premises of the book or they will slow you down cosiderably.) Also, while the premise seemed implausible, once accepted the story was internally consistent.<br />The book suffered from two additional irritating flaws. First, several developments were well telegraphed to the reader, yet despite Jack's obvious intelligence and attention to detail he was oblivious to the implications of certain events and some of Julia's actions. Also the last chapter was a forced attempt to clear up some of the unexplained happenings, but seemed to be an afterthought addendum which still left several crucial things not cleared up to my satisfaction.<br />While I recommend this book with the aforementioned reservations, I would suggest that anyone interested in a serious discussion of the topic read the article by Bill Joy, the respected chief scientist at Sun Microsystems, which appeared in WIRED MAGAZINE a coupleof years ago about the dangers of technological innovations developing human like intelligence capabilities. At times as I was rading PREY it seemed as if that article had been the genesis of Michael Crichton's plot line. Also, if you are interested in a truly prescient sci fi story regarding the potential of self replicating machines, read the short story AUTOFAC by the great Philip K. Dick. (It is included in the collection titled MINORITY REPORT AND OTHER STORIES - the title story is a great classic and much better than the movie.) In conclusion, I believe that Michael Crichton's introduction to PREY indicates that he had a message that he wanted to convey (and his cautions are in fact well taken); nevertheless, while he developed the story in an entertaining and arresting manner, he stretched the technologies involved to do so and also ignored the historical evidence that technology and human ingenuity have much more often been the source of progress than disaster.	2002-12-02
US	50223242	R2HRYW3Q1OQAE4	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Don't Believe the Book Jacket Hyperbole but a Good Read	This is a more than adequate prototypical James Patterson assembly line thriller involving another case for fans of DC Detective Alex Cross. The dialog is simple, the action is fast, the murders are brutal, there is a mastermind to catch, and the chapters are shorter than ever (less than four pages on average). However, I found this book much more enjoyable than the last few Cross books. First, we don't get so many mindnumbing gruesome details about the murders. Second, John Sampson's character gets fleshed out and he has a more instrumental role in the story. Third, it was much more a straighforward police procedural and detective story despite a few stupid and unrealistic actions by Cross (including breaking and entering at the home of one of the suspects). Last, I personally was glad that a bestselling author like Patterson addressed the continuing effect of the Vietnam War on many veterans and the ethical dilemmas which they faced, even if this is a very superficial treatment.<br />As usual, Patterson hooks you through immediate action and the fact you're several chapters in the book almost before you have begun, since it's always easy to read another three or four pages. This is no literary masterpiece and there are no long descriptive sections, just the necessary facts to advance the plot intermixed with more than usual degree of involvement in the personal lives of Cross (and his new girlfriend Jamilla), Sampson, and Nana, Cross' grandmother.<br />Sampson's Vietnam buddy, Ellis Cooper, is convicted of a brutal triple murder based on compelling physical evidence. He contacts Sampson from Death Row and he and Cross become convinced that he was framed. As they investigate, they uncover several previous murders where Vietnam vets were apparently similarly framed and executed. We are then introduced to the three killers, a professional hit squad that was a covert assasination team in Vietnam. (Thus, in this book the suspense is more about how Cross and Sampson will trap the killers and why the murders have been committed than by whom or how.) Further murders occur and Cross and Sampson confront the killers but run into hostility from the miltary as they attempt to build their case. The action soon moves to the campus of West Point and direct involvement of the Army, and it becomes clear that there is someone directing events behind the scenes. Kyle Craig (known to previous Cross readers as the murderous FBI agent now in a maximum security federal penitentiary) appears briefly as a confidante of Tran Van Luu, also a prisoner, former Army agent in Vietnam, and leader of the NY Vietnamese gang, the Ghost Shadows.<br />I found the conclusion more satisfying than recent Alex Cross books, and the explanation for the killings and the revenge exacted for long hidden events a sort of rough justice for all involved. Of course, as usual in Patterson novels a lot of questions concerning the details are left unanswered. For just a few examples, we don't know how all the evidence was fabricated, why the innocent victims were chosen, or how Kyle and Tran operated from supposedly solitary confinement. This book is recommended for both Alex Cross devotees and new James Patterson readers who want a quick easy read with a plot with a few intriguing twists.l trap the killers and why the murders have been committed than by whom or how.) Further murders occur and Cross and Sampson confront the killers but run into hostility from the miltary as they attempt to build their case. The action soon moves to the campus of West Point and direct involvement of the Army, and it becomes clear that there is someone directing events behind the scenes. Kyle Craig (known to previous Cross readers as the murderous FBI agent now in a maximum security federal penitentiary) appears briefly as a confidante of Tran Van Luu, also a prisoner, former Army agent in Vietnam, and leader of the NY Vietnamese gang, the Ghost Shadows.<br />I found the conclusion more satisfying than recent Alex Cross books, and the explanation for the killings and the revenge exacted for long hidden events a sort of rough justice for all involved. Of course, as usual in Patterson novels a lot of questions concerning the details are left unanswered. For just a few examples, we don't know how all the evidence was fabricated, why the innocent victims were chosen, or how Kyle and Tran operated from supposedly solitary confinement. This book is recommended for both Alex Cross devotees and new James Patterson readers who want a quick easy read with a plot with a few intriguing twists.	2002-11-26
US	50223242	R2OFSPKOQSNG5B	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Trip Across America Becomes A Journey Of The Heart	Tom Langdon, a globetrotting journalist and Pulitzer Prize winner, is forced by circumstances to take a transcontinental trip aboard Amtrak to meet his current girlfriend Lelia Gibson in LA for the Christmas holidays. Tom's family connection to Mark Twain had inspired him to become a writer, and according to legend, Twain had taken a similar trip with the intent of writing a story based on his encounters across the country. Thus, Tom decides to use this trip to write the story Twain had never completed and fulfill one of the last requests of his father before his death. Always in the background of Tom's consciousness is what he now regards as the major mistake of his life, that he never proposed to his true love and fellow foreign correspondent Eleanor Carter, with whom he has now lost touch but still cares for deeply.<br />The first section of the book consists of the segment of the journey from DC to Chicago aboard The Capitol Limited. Readers are introduced to the major characters and the outline of the limited plot and interrelated mysteries become clear. We also get a lesson in intercity train travel and learn that this will be a combination holiday story, romance and mystery as well as an advertisement for Amtrak and the joys of leisurely travel and seeing America rather than overflying the country to simply speed to your destination. We meet the eccentric Agnes Jo, who Tom believes is hiding some secret: Steve and Julie, who are planning a marriage on the train since their parents disapprove of their relationship; Amtrak employee stalwarts Regina and Tyrone, and numerous other characters where it is not clear who has a bit part and who is central to the plot. But on a train you have time to get to know all of them.<br />The second section of the book consists of the trip aboard The Southwest Chief from Chicago to LA. Here the plot thickens, the action quickens, the mystery deepens, and the passengers and crew are threatened by potential tragedy. My use of stereotypes in my description is intentional; Baldacci cleverly uses stereotypical characters such as Lelia, the actress whose fame derives from her role as the voice of Cuppy the Beaver, Gordon Merryweather, the despicable class action attorney who soon gets his comeuppance and Max Price, the famous movie director who is accummulating material for his next epic involving train travel, to quickly get us involved with the story without the necessity for a lot of background. At the same time he lets us know that this will be a fun trip of the sort many of his readers have probably dreamed about taking.<br />All the usual adjectives apply - heartwarming, charming, schmaltzy, romantic and just plain fun. It is a very fast read, a great story for a long afternoon or evening in front of a Christmas fireplace or a short trip; ironically much too brief for a long train ride but about right for a high speed Acela ride between NYC and DC or Boston. This book, along with WISH YOU WELL, shows the versatility of the author, but I certainly hope that he has not completely abandoned the action-adventure-mystery genre. While it is hard to write a suspenseful Christmas story since an ending of renewed hope, forgiveness and the fulfillment of dreams is almost essential to the feelgood spirit of such a story (as well as its commercial success, even for Scrooge and the Grinch), Baldacci does include enough plot twists and character misdirection so that fans of his previous stories will recognize his hand at work here. Finally, the ending was very clever, and helps renew our faith in Santa Claus. I debated my rating and some readers may think five stars is overly generous, but as I completed my review I was reminded how thouroughly I had enjoyed the book and how it had completely lived up to my expectations. Thus, I am convinced that Baldacci has accomplished his goal as an author, and felt that such a feat deserved at least close to five stars. This book cannot and should not be comparedto ABSOLUTE POWER or SAVING FAITH, but has to stand on its own and be rated on that basis.	2002-11-20
US	50223242	R2E8W21FY2KLVT	0399149155	249229548	Q is for Quarry: A Kinsey Millhone Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Mixed Review From A  First Time Sue Grafton Reader	For many reasons, it is always difficult for a new reader to start with a new novel in the middle of a well-established series by a best selling author. Thus it is important for readers of this review to understand that I have no background in the letters of this series from A to P. In fact, despite my wife's high praise for several of the earlier books, I had decided that I was already overwhelmed enough by the output of several other of my favorite authors writing in the mystery/dectective genre (I recommend that you sample Robert Parker and John Lescroart if you have not) and did not need to try to catch up with a series on it's seventeenth book. However, my curiosity combined with the hook of this novel being based on an actual twenty-three year old unsolved murder  case (of a still unidentified victim) stimulated my interest and I decided to read the book after my wife had finished it.<br />In summary, there was much that I liked about the book, but overall I was mildly disppointed and that is the reason for my rating. First, the positives - I liked Kinsey Millhone a lot (perhaps partly because I am a runner and fast food addict myself), and felt that Sue Grafton did a more than adequate job of providing some summary of Kinsey's character development and personal history as the series had developed but also cleverly weaving in new background info for long time readers. I also liked Lieutenant Con Dolan and Detective Stacey Oliphant, and thought that the personal detail and interplay among the characters was interesting and fun. And I thought that as a pure police procedural with all the intimate real life detail that is often involved in dectective work the book was first rate and highly recommend it to readers who enjoy such stories.<br />So, why only three stars? First it was a little slow moving for me, not too long, just too little true suspense and uncertainty. I didn't really get involved until roughly the last one hundred pages. Usually I tend to read such books almost nonstop, my wife was amazed that I spaced this one over several days. As I realized that this was not a book that I could unreservedly and enthusiastically recommend to my friends and thought about my reaction after finishing it, I think it was more complex than the lack of action. First, perhaps my expectations were just too high and since my relationship as a reader with Kinsey was not that of an old friend, this was not a visit that I started with a lot of background comfort. But, most importantly, my conclusion and my warning to other readers is that in retrospect what most excited me about the book before reading it was in the end bound to disappoint me. That is, here is a true murder case that we all have a lingering hope can still be solved, or at the least the victim identified. Yet, of course, when you finish the book the one thing of which you are sure is that none of this speculation is what really happened; we are at the end of the story but in truth there is no conclusion. I wanted to know what really happened and I did't. I did not anticipate or initially understand this outcome, but preparing to write this review made me realize that was the case for me.  <br />Despite my disappointment, kudos to the author for her effort, and we can all hope that her publicity of the case and work with a forensic artist to provide a facial reconstruction of the actual victim and publicity in connection with a bestseller will lead to some progress in her identification. And, now I will read at least one more Kinsey Millhone book to see how much I enjoy meeting her again as she usesher detective skills to solve a fictional case where my desire for the \\"real truth\\" won't get in the way	2002-11-14
US	50223242	R2XCGMSCIGO1IH	0767905040	535658780	The Case Against Lawyers: How the Lawyers, Politicians, and Bureaucrats Have Turned the Law into an Instrument of Tyranny--and What We as Citizens Have to Do About It	Books	4	34	40	N	N	Verdict: Lawyers and Politicians Guilty As Charged	This in an interesting and disturbing book about how the law today has frequently been used to abuse citizens and weaken our democracy and economy rather than protect us. Catherine Crier observed the inner workings of the legal system as a private attorney, distict attorney, and judge; her frustrations with the current day practice of law in contrast to her beliefs regarding the underlying intent of the founders of our country led her to write this book. It has a theoretical base but primarily consists of anecdotes and case studies so outrageous that she hopes that her readers will heed her call for a return to commonsense and personal responsibilty. It is easy to read and contains a lot of very diverse material, some widely disseminated but most probably unknown to casual students of the subject. And  I believe that she proves her case.<br />She begins with a brief introduction which outlines in very cogent form her view of nine characteristics with which our laws should uniformly conform but which are often lacking from modern jurisprudence. Then she goes on to examine several areas of particular concern to her: among these are the perversion of our educational system by the search for equality rather than excellence, the police state tactics of regulatory agencies, the extremes to which enforcement of the ADA has beeen carried, civil rights vs. civil liberties, the role of money and lobbyists in politics, and particularly effectively in my opinion how our war on drugs has become an \\"addiction to insanity\\". Her conclusion that in some cases we seem to have entered the Twilight Zone in such areas as personal damage awards regardless of whether any neglience was actually involved and discussion of how attorneys often use the threat of punitive damages as \\"a sledgehammer\\" is right on the mark.<br />Nevertheless, I recommend this book with mixed feelings and found it hard to rate. While the author does a very good and often entertaining job of proving her case, her discussion of our Constitutional principles and how they have been subverted could have been better. She also vacillated frequently between her apparent libertarian impulses (with which I am generally in agreement) and populist outrage which was naive and very disappointing. While she pays lip service to the fact that politicians and businessmen usually just respond to the incentives with which they are presented, she often seems to be reflexively and almost rabidly anti-business. At the same time she pays no attention to such other sources of power as labor unions and associations and groups such as AARP and Jesse Jackson's Rainbow Coalition.<br />I was also disappointed by the brevity and unconvincing or incomplete nature of her suggestions for reform. She seems to fail completely to recognize that most of the things which she finds outrageous result from the sheer size our our government today and the potential for abuse which this provides. Thus if the problems are systemic in nature they need a comprehensive solution. She convinces us that we have suffered horrible injury, then offers us a few bandaids. <br />She seems to agree with  the Jeffersonian vision of limited government, personal responsibilty, and a dominant role for civil rather than political society. In fact, she refers to Jefferson often and contrasts his views with those of Hamilton. Yet she refrains from aggressively endorsing  a return to Constitutional first principles, especially a reinterpretation by the courts of the Commerce Clause and the Ninth and Tenth Amendments. She wants us to take action, but apparently is hesitant to call for an activist role for the courts in defense of liberty. Perhaps she is afraid of the harm that an activist judiciary has done in creating the meaningless idea of \\"a living Constitution\\", but an activist judiciary in defense of first principles is quite different. In this fight, only the framers understanding that the Constitution is the shield of the people against the sword of government will save us in the end from the tryanny to which she believes we are now subjected. Hopefully her next book will reach this conclusion and more clearly articulate this point.	2002-11-12
US	50223242	R2EU7WZ3H31BVC	0312253486	991869571	The Janson Directive	Books	5	22	24	N	N	ROBERT LUDLUM AT HIS  BEST (undoubtedly with an assist)	Suspense - Action - Intricate Plotting - Wonderful Intrigue - All the things which Robert Ludlum provided the reader in his most successful books are contained in THE JANSON DIRECTIVE. This is an action adventure thriller to rival the Jason Bourne trilogy, and fans will hope that a sequel for Paul Janson was also conceptualized before Ludlum's death.<br />Paul Janson, a retired field operative from the covert agency Consular Ops is clandestinely recruited to attempt an exfiltration of Peter Novak, a billionaire and Nobel Peace Prize winner who has been kidnapped by nationalist rebels on the island kingdom of Anura and is to be executed in three days time. After being informed of the details of the mission by Marta Lang (head of Novak's philanthropy - the Liberty Foundation), when Lang thanked him for providing she and her associates with hope Janson remained silent but concluded that \\"perhaps false hope was better than none at all\\". And indeed, on the verge of apparent success a terrible tragedy occurs as Part One ends. For reasons totally unknown to Janson or the reader, a  \\"beyond salvage\\" is then issued by Janson's former agency and he is targeted for death. <br />The remaining eighty percent of the book involves unraveling the intertwined mysteries of the life of Peter Novak, the Vietnam wartime experiences of Paul Janson, the role of the secret ops of the U.S. government, the disappearance of Marta Lang, and the continuing role of the masterful Anuran rebel leader, the Caliph, who has also a fateful link with Janson's past.<br />The intricate nature of the conspiracy as it unfolds rivals the best books of this nature that I have read, and the characters are well drawn, especialy Jessica Kincaid, the young sharpshooter of unbelievable ability (literally, her achievements were a bit too good) who is on the team chosen to pursue Janson, but also several of the bit characters as well including the Russian Grigori Berman. I was especially intrigued by Peter Novak, who Ludlum clearly seemed to model on George Soros in many details. However, Novak chooses to achieve his goals through an activist \\"directed democracy\\" rather than Soros' methodology of simply promoting \\"Open Society\\". Nevertheless, the existence of Soros as a real life model for the accumulation of such vast wealth makes Novak's character more believeable.<br />As most of Ludlum's books, this displays deep cynicism regarding the actions of our government, and great understanding of the arrogance of power. I found Janson's contempt for \\"the best and the brighest\\" and his analysis of their faults truly refreshing. Several things argue against this being written (rather than plotted) by Ludlum. Most noticably, the contemporary idiom relative to his other books, as well as the more graphic and detailed violence. I was repulsed by a few of the descriptions of torture, as was undoubtedly the intent given their context. However, the fact Ludlum stepped out of character to write THE ROAD TO GANDOLFO and THE ROAD TO OMAHA keep me from reaching a firm conclusion regarding the extent of his role in the preparation of this manuscript. But is is good enough so that the publisher should have informed its readers concerning whatever collaboration occurred in its preparation and provided appropriate credit, as this would not have detracted from its appeal.	2002-10-31
US	50223242	R2K99CTMLOP1WC	0446531332	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe	Books	4	52	56	N	N	A  Simple,  Absorbing  Well Written Love Story	At age sixty, Adrienne Willis is faced with the fact that her daughter Amanda has been unable to regain her emotional equilibrium after her husband died of cancer. Adrienne becomes increasingly worried about the impact on Amanda's two young sons. Amanda rejects her mother's attempts to lend support, since she believes that her divorced mother does not \\"know what it is like to live through something like \\" the death of a loved one. Adrienne decides that Amanda needs to learn about a part of her mother's life that has been kept secret from her family, and as she reviews the items she has saved from her NIGHTS IN RODANTHE and as she rereads the letter from Paul (Flanner), by the end of the first chapter not only has the complete plot been revealed but we guess the conclusion in a general way. <br />Thus, the attraction of this story is its simplicity and spareness as the author gives us enough details to fulfill our curiosity but makes no attempt to embellish it beyond the necessary minimum. In a flashback to fifteen years ago, Adrienne agees to watch a coastal inn for a friend who has to attend a wedding. Because it is past the tourist season and a hurricane is forecast, Paul Flanner (a very successful surgeon who has just sold his practice to go to Ecuador to be with his son) is the only guest. They are both attempting to recover from failed marriages, and their few brief nights together become a life changing experience for each of them. This is the eternal story of our search to instill meaning into our lives, and the question of what constitutes real love.<br />I have read none of Nicholas Sparks' other books or THE BRIDGES OF MADISON COUNTY, but did see the movie MEASSAGE IN A BOTTLE. My only response to the critics of this book who compare it to those other works is that their disappointment seems to be based on their expectations, rather than on an evaluation of what the author was attempting to do with this story. In fact, I WAS GLAD THAT AN AUTHOR HAS DECIDEDFOR ONCE THAT LESS CAN BE MORE, and the essence of a really good and compelling story about human emotions can be strong enough to stand on its own without a lot of embellishment. I believe that this story succeeds in fulfilling that goal, and therefore while I understand the very disparate reviews which it has received I strongly recommend it for those readers interested in what it purports to be, a story of life and rembrance of the healing power of love, even when fate has intervened to make those recollections bittersweet.	2002-10-24
US	50223242	R30L0QM9CKEEYU	0743403525	383165877	The Nominee	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Riveting Well Plotted Action Thriller With One Major Flaw	Jack Flynn is the ace reporter for THE BOSTON RECORD and good friend of the publisher (and current generation of the founding family) Paul Ellis. As Jack is about to break a major political story regarding Lance Randolph, the current governor of Massachusetts, Paul informs Jack that he needs his help in opposing a secret takeover offer by Terry Campbell, owner of a major media chain. Paul further informs Jack that he believes that the death five years ago of his predecessor as publisher, his cousin John Cutter, may have been related to a previous takeover attempt by Campbell. At the same time, Paul's mentor, legendary Record columnist Robert Fitzgerald, is furnished a scoop that Democrat Randolph is about to be nominated for U.S. Attorney General by a Republican president. Suddenly the stakes are raised considerably regarding Jack's planned expose. Soon Ellis is dead, an attempt has been made on Jack's life, Fitzgerald's veracity is in question, the takeover proposal is public, and Jack gets reinvolved with his ex-girlfriend and reporter for the competing newspaper, Elizabeth.<br />Since Jack soon comes to believe that the police may have interests which conflict with his own (fueled by his suspicions regarding the relationship of the lead detective with Elizabeth), he is basically dependent on the help of Hank Seeeney, a retired Boston P.D. detective who he tracks down in Florida. He also soon involves Vinny Mongillo, his best friend and fellow reporter at the Record, and his dog Baker (whose appearance is much too brief but key to some events early in the story).<br />Action is nonstop, the plot is complex, and the insights which author McGrory provides about the newspaper business and political reporting are first rate. He weaves all the pieces of the puzzle together in a way that made me want to keep reading the next chapter to discover the latest turn of the intricate plot. Also, his evocation of the Boston area is very good. Lastly, he is a excellent wordsmith, and his descriptive phrases and asides are often wonderful. (E.g. the evidence locker for closed cases existed as \\"the room where shouted questions were diminished by time to a barely audible whisper\\".)<br />I strongly recommend this book, and plan to read THE INCUMBENT, McGrory's first novel and introduction to Jack Flynn.That plot and events in Jack's life are integral to this book, but are explained as necessary as this story unfolds. However, I could not rate it five stars because of two irritating flaws. First, a relatively minor one, is that the book alternated between the third person, including action that occurred both when Jack was and was not present, and the first person, when we would suddenly be privy to Jack's unspoken thoughts. Second and much more annoying to me, in order to further the plot and increase the suspense, at times the characters would act totally inconsistently with their personnas. This was especially true of Jack, who is protrayed as a very smart reporter who knew how to piece together a story but did some pretty dumb things in this book. It only occurred infrequently but on a few other occasions, I said \\"get real, these people aren't supposed to be that dumb\\". I do not want to give any specifics away, but the author could have accomplished his goal in other ways. I suspect and hope that Hank Sweeney will make an appearance in the next Jack Flynn book, scheduled for 2003, and that Elizabeth and Baker will have larger roles. <br />My unrealistic dream as a Spenser fan (Robert Parker) is that perhaps a Boston case will come along that Flynn, Sweeney, Elizabeth and Baker could team up with Spenser, Quirk, Susan Silverman, and Pearl the Wonder Dog to solve. However, that is for another day. If you do like action mysteries that evoke the Boston locale, I suggest that you read Robert Parker's SHRINK RAP after you finish this book.	2002-10-23
US	50223242	R56LEXMY801CR	0399149341	786063504	Sphere of Influence	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Who Is More Deadly - Criminals, Terrorists or the CIA ?	In his latest thriller, Kyle Mills combines the convoluted plotting, conspiracy paranoia and rapidity of action in the best Ludlum books with the international political intrigue with government agents operating around the edges of legality found in the best of Clancy. FBI agent Mark Beamon returns as the central character of this present day adventure involving a confluence of individually believable events that have been woven into a fascinating and extremely fast moving if somewhat implausible scenario. <br />As readers of Mills' previous novels know, for political reasons Mark Beamon has become persona non grata at FBI headquarters and thus has been \\"promoted\\" to Special Agent in Charge (SAC) of the Phoenix office, a job which suits neither his temperament or skills. As he is trying to decide whether to move on with his life, a terrorist cell inside the US sends videotapes to media outlets which indicate that they possess a rocket launcher and plan to attack a major city. This causes a political firestorm, so Mark's friend and previous FBI associate secretly enlists Mark to help locate the terrorists before they can carry out their threat. Meanwhile when Mark is unable to prevent the murder of a fellow undercover FBI agent who has infiltrated the mob in an attempt to get information regarding their heroin distribution operations, he goes on a personal crusade to avenge the death which he could not prevent. Mark eventually develops a speculative theory regarding a possible connection between the two cases, and goes deep undercover himself. Mark manages to affiliate himself with an international crime organization run by Romanian expatriate Christian Volkov, and is pursued around the world by both the FBI and the CIA (in order to keep their own role hidden). While trying to stay alive and keep Volkov from guessing his identity he has to stop Al Queda from firing the rocket while simultaneously disrupting their source of income from supplying the Mob with drugs. And he is still motivated primarily by the need to find out who ordered the hit onhis friend killed and exact revenge. So, as I hope is clear, if you like political intrigue combined with non-stop action, you should enjoy this book, especially if you are a cynic regarding the motives of politicians and government agents. <br />Additionally, Mills cleverly integrates some infrequent philosophical asides as Mark has to face such issues as the counterproductive nature of the war on drugs and prosecution of victimless crimes and whether the government uses its power more ruthlessly and often causes more harm than the the criminals who it prosecutes. That this is a subtly political novel added to my enjoyment, since I agree with the apparent philosophical inclinations of the author.<br />I only have two minor cautions, the first few chapters move slowly but they are essential for providing background on Mark's character for first time readers of Kyle Mills and also provide elements which figure heavily in Mark's motivations as the story proceeds. Second, there are a few minor editing and proofreading errors. These were offset by my relief that the graphic violence in this story is kept to an essential minimum, as opposed to BURN FACTOR, which featured almost non-stop incredibly gruesome scenes of torture and death.	2002-10-16
US	50223242	RS747COX3J4VN	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	2	6	7	N	Y	Some Good, More Bad and Ugly - Wait for the Movie	This review is written by a huge fan of Tom Clancy. By far the worst Jack Ryan book.<br />**Summary**<BR>The Good - The Idea <BR>The Bad -Tom Clancy's execution of his idea<BR>The Ugly -618 pages for a 350 page idea  <br />**Details**<BR>THE GOOD - The plot is simple and an interesting idea. Jack Ryan early in his career as a CIA analyst is posted to London and brought  into a situation involving the attempted assasination of Pope John Paul II. It has cold war intrigue, spycraft and gives us the opportunity to see Ed and Mary Pat Foley at work early in their careers, as well as Admiral Greer and DDO Bob Ritter. At the same time Tom Clancy gets to write some historical fiction and speculate on the details behind the event including the roles of Brehznev, Andropov and Suslov.<br />THE BAD - Of course, the villians are the KGB, communists and the assassin that a defector (the Rabbit) identifies. Also, as an aside, according to Dr. Cathy Ryan (who joins a hospital staff there) socialized medicine in the UK is so  pathethic that one hopes never to need surgery while there. (This is the illustrative of the level of mind numbing detail in the book.) Of course, we are reminded at length how bad the communist economies were and how delusional were their leaders and while such reminders are probably worthwhile and do explain the thesis of the book, they continually interrupt the flow of the story.<br />THE UGLY - The details of the torture methods used by Stalin and the KGB. The lack of fact checking and several editing mistakes, especially since Clancy's strength is his attention to detail. E.G. the assasin is twice misidentified as one of his previous victims with a similar name and even more incredibly the attempt on the Pope's life in actuality was made in 1981, yet in the book it occurs the year that the Orioles won the world series (1983) and when Cal Ripken was supposedly a rookie (1982). If you are going to write historical fiction rather than about events in some parallel universe, get your facts right.<br />Jack Ryan fans will probably want to read this book despite its serious shortcomings, all others should wait for the movie which can keep the plot and action while getting rid of the extraneous material. Let's hope the apparent sequel, The Mask of The Red Death if the hints throughout this book mean anything, is better.	2002-10-08
US	50223242	R1W7EZ9URKA41Z	0312301790	142366218	Showdown: Confronting Bias, Lies, and the Special Interests that Divide America	Books	4	45	47	N	Y	GREAT IDEAS AND EYE OPENING FACTS	Larry Elder is a libertarian, and powerfully documents his thesis that the country and its citizens would be better off if we returned to the type of limited government and personal responsibilty envisioned by the founders of our country as outlined in the Constitution. As he states, \\"Americans are good enough, smart enough, competent enough, and forward-thinking enough to control their own lives with little government interference\\". He provides extensive examples of how most government programs limit our freedoms, reduce our wealth, and usually are counterproductive due to their unintended consequences.<br />No topic is off limits to the author, the host of a top rated LA radio talk show who overcame an attempt by pressure groups opposed to his views to organize an advertiser boycott and drive him off the air. After all, a Hollywood celebrity who is a libertarian is threatening enough to the \\"\\"toe tag liberals\\"  and victicrats; when he is black it is imperative that he be discredited or silenced since he is viewed as a \\"traitor to his race\\" in Larry's words. <br />The book strongly makes the case that the terrorist attacks of 9/11 should cause us to focus our efforts on the country's self defense and should have made us aware of how the involvement of the federal government in areas that are Constitutionally defined as the responsibilty of individual citizens or local officials has led to the diversion of both personnel and financial resources away from its primary duty of the protection of its citizens.<br />Among the issues that the book discusses are the problems of our educational system, race relations and environmental policy. It illustrates how media bias interacts with the desire of both major political parties to retain their power and thus creates the pressure for an ever expanding role for the federal government.It shows how the threat of terrorist action is likely to accelerate these tendencies. His historical analysis is quite interesting and he takesno prisoners, Republican or Democrat.<br />I tremendously enjoyed the book, and even though I am politically active and very interested in public policy the book includes many fascinating facts and quotations of which I was not aware. (All of which are meticulously footnoted.) I did not rate it five stars because I thought that at times it jumped around rather than concentrate on facts and arguments furthering his main point.While these were interesting and often outrageous, they actually diverted the reader's attention. Several of the chapters should have been more focused; in this regard his previous book THE TEN THINGS THAT YOU CAN'T SAY IN AMERICA was much better at making his points. At times SHOWDOWN almost seemed more like the transcript of an excellent radio talk show than a book. Also, while I share the author's beliefs in the need for limited government, a return to Constitutional principles, the counterproductive nature of such programs as the war on drugs, and the innate goodness and ability of the American people to solve their own problems and manage their lives, I think his call to President Bush and the other politicians currently in power to voluntarily reverse the course started upon by FDR is naive. We probably need structural reforms enacted to accomplish his goals and he does not touch on these and the real showdown that would accompany their implementation.	2002-10-07
US	50223242	R1L0BZOFUSNFPJ	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	36	51	N	N	A Review By Someone Who Actually Read The Whole Book	Myself: The biases of a reviewer are very important in judging a review of a book of this nature, so here are mine. I am a libertarian because the classical word liberal used to describe Thomas Jefferson has been hijacked by the Democrats, who only believe in affording me liberty when I agree with their agenda. The Republican Party has plenty wrong with it too, and looks good only when compared to the alternative. I believe in limited government, maximum individual freedom and peaceful coexistence through minding our own business, staying strong and eradicating terrorists. In the words of that immortal song, GOD BLESS THE USA.  <br />THE BOOK: As my rating indicates, I found this a very enjoyable and informative book. The subtitle, \\"Liberal Lies About The American Right\\",  accurately conveys the book's thesis. The voluminous footnotes (almost 1000) more than adequately illustrate her points.(Any reveiwer who says that she does not document her case is either totally biased or hasn't read the book.) SLANDER begins with an overview of Miss Coulter's viewpoint and then examines the media coverage and liberal viewpoints regarding several issues such as John McCain's presidential campaign, the adolation and subsequent vicious attacks on Bob Packwood as the liberals' agenda changed, the Clinton impeachment fiasco (regardless of which side you were on), and best of all, the coverage of the 2000 presidential campaigns by Bush and Gore and the subsequent Florida election brouhaha. And she does a wonderful job of showing how the media treatment of George W Bush changed in the patriotic fervor that followed the events of 9/11. Her well deserved prime example is the New York Times, which she credits in her introduction with making the book possible because of the target rich opportunity which they provide. She also illustates the many examples of the liberal supporters of free speech and art trying to suppress through such devices as campus speech codes opinions and political speech with which they do not agree.<br />The author's insights combine with rapier like phraseolgy to skewer the opposition, and she puts her linguistic skills to excellent use. In fact, one of my few criticisms is that occasionally she gets carried away by her own hyperbole, an accusation which she frequently makes regarding her adversaries. Also, the frequency of the footnotes is almost overwhelming; yet I felt they should be read because many additional information regarding the referenced subject and I am a political junkie interested in all the details. As the title hopefully makes clear, this is a book with a point of view and not an attempt to provide a balanced study of the subject. But it is required reading for anyone who either agrees with the point of view or is simply interested in it.	2002-09-24
US	50223242	RY1SI6JYKK94C	0451200101	520057645	The Experiment	Books	3	7	7	N	N	INTRIGUING PLOT BUT DISAPPOINTING EXECUTION	This is the first novel by John Darnton that I have read. It is very well plotted and well researched, has interesting characters that you care about, moves very swiftly, and clearly explains the basis of recent genetic research. In spite of all these positives it nowhere near lives up to the potential that it could have achieved for a book by an author of his proven abilities. It appears that Darnton vacillated; he has written a book that has elements of a major work of fiction that philosophically and scientifically investigates such phenomena as cloning, gentic experimentation, organ transplants, and the effect of hereditary influences on identical twins but then also attempted to create an action-filled suspense novel to be quickly read without much contemplation. <br />The story begins with Jude Harley, a newspaper reporter, investigating a murder where the corpse had been mutilated, apparently to conceal the victim's identity. He is concurrently assigned by his editor to research a story on identical twins, which leads him to interview a leading expert in that field, Dr. Elizabeth Hurley. Meanwhile, alternate chapters introduce us to Skyler, a young man caught up in very strange circumstances on an island off the Atlantic coast. As you may guess, the lives of these three major protogonists are interwoven in strange ways that form the basis of this story. Jude and Skyler come face to face under dangerous circumstances, and appear to be twins despite the apparent immpoosibilty of that fact. For various but connected reasons several other murders  occur and despite their suspicions regarding each other Skyler, Jude and Tizzie go on the run together in an attempt to discover their buried history and to unravel a conspiracy which reaches to the highest levels of the FBI and is attempting to destroy them.<br />I found the plot absorbing enough to get totally hooked, and some segments are incredibly well written and absolutely riveting. Unfortunately there are also some sloppy and unbelievable sequences that seem out of character with the reality that the author is trying to create. At times it seems that Darnton didn't quite know how to keep the reader's interest while getting to the ending that he desired and so forced action that is inconsistent with human nature and the pcharacters in this story. In summary, I liked the suspense, was glad that I read the book, but disappointed that it did not live up to the potential of the plot and its best parts.	2002-09-24
US	50223242	R1VP24IALGUCHS	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	5	11	15	N	N	THE BEST ROBERT PARKER IN YEARS	Sunny Randall is back in a prototypical Robert Parker book; an investigation to be conducted, a mystery to be solved, characters to be developed, spare restrained dialog to be enjoyed, and good to triumph over evil by the conclusion. Even the title is a perfectly minimalist description of the events which we will watch unfold.<br />In this fast paced and quick read, Sunny is hired to \\"babysit\\" Melanie Joan Hall by her book publisher as the author embarks on a book tour for her new bestseller. The reason for the bodyguard is that Melanie Joan is terrified of her ex-husband, the \\"shrink\\" identified by the title. He does in fact soon begin to stalk her, and the pace quickens when a bloody incident during a book signing leaves Melanie Joan unconscious on the floor. We only very gradually learn the reasons for her terror as we and Sunny get to know her through their conversations while they are on the road together.Meanwhile, the characters that provide the continuity in Sunny's life - her own \\"ex\\" Richie, Spike, her friend Julie, her family, and of course Rosie, her companion bull terrier - are all woven into the story as appropriate in typical Robert Parker fashion by an author who both understands and enjoys delving into the complexity of human relationships. <br />When Sunny is threatened with physical harm,she decides that she needs to investigate Dr. Melvin (the \\"ex\\") or Melanie Joan will never feel safe. As she and Melanie Joan have traveled together she has come to understand that the author is both likeable and intelligent, not at all a shallow writer of superficial romance novels. Thus, she soon finds herself visiting two shrinks, both Dr. Melvin and a background resource to aid her investigation. At that point she realizes how interconnected her feelings about her complex relationship with Ritchie are to this case, and despite her best intentions gets drawn into her developing own theraputic insights.<br />Since Sunny is still a relatively new acquaintance ofRobert Parker fans rather than a old friend like Spenser, we are only gradually learning about her and perhaps that is part of the reason why this book is so enjoyable. In fact, her therapy and the nature of the plot are a wonderful way to make sure that the reader cares what happens next in her relationship with Ritchie. And it is hard not to want to see Spike and Rosie again. Of course, she is not as physical as Spenser, and there is very litle actual violence in the book although two murders and several other violent acts are integral to the plot. However, psychological suspense and tension due to potential violence are almost omnipresent. It is an incredibly fast read, I bought it to start on a two hour flight and finish on the way home but because of a delay due to engine trouble I actually finished the book before we landed, which was probably good since I quickly got swept up in the story and would have gotten aggravated if I had to interrupt it to attend my meeting. The only suggestion that I might make is to read the three books in this new series in order if you have the time; this will let you get a better feel for the nuances of Robert Parker's gradual development of Sunny's character. But if you only have time for one and like intricate psychological thrillers, read this one since it is the best!	2002-09-20
US	50223242	R3PARSB50B5J48	0446611778	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	4	6	9	N	N	ALMOST FIVE STARS	This Baldacci thriller is guaranteed to please his many fans given the nonstop action and convoluted twists and turns as the plot unfolds. Web London, the leader of an elite FBI Hostage Rescue Team (HRT) is the only one that survives a cleverly plotted ambush during one of the team's missions (hence the title)and the facts surrounding the incident are clouded in mystery. The deaths of Web's team members combined with his inabilty to offer a satifactory explanation of the chain of events cast suspicion on him and lead him to attempt to unravel the mystery and also seek psychological counseling from Dr. Claire Daniels. Soon we are faced with a plot involving Earnest B. Free, the head of a paramiltary cult who Web was responsible for sending to prison in a case which involved the death of a teenage boy during a previous mission of the HRT.Additional complications ensue as Francis Westbrook, a black drug dealer, becomes involved due to the apparent role of his ward Kevin during the ambush.And this is all in the first few chapters!<br />Romance, murder, drugs, race, psychotherapy, high tech action and frequent violence make this a page turner. Even after the villians become clear the outcome remains in doubt and the missing pieces of the very complicated puzzle are only slowly revealed.As a David Baldacci fan who had trouble putting this book down to get to sleep at night, I was tempted to give it a five star rating. However, it is too long, like Tom Clancy Baldacci seems to increasingly believe that the more details and complications the better. This seems a little too much. Second a lot of the detail is incredibly graphic violence which is unnecessary given the intriguing nature of the plot, and while in the opening scene this is both necessary and riveting, it is carried to extremes elsewhere.Remember, read it when you have lots of time, on vacation or a long plane flight.	2002-09-19
US	50223242	R3CPZZFNWD4JMK	0525945768	106793233	The Oath (Dismas Hardy)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Barely  Deserves Four Stars	THE OATH is a murder mystery involving the apparently accidental death of Tim Markham, the well known head of San Francisco's largest HMO in his own hospital as the result of the injuries sustained in a hit and run incident during his early morning jog. However,an autopsy reveals that his demise was aided by an overdose of potassium administered in his own hospital and the Homicide Chief, Lieutenant Abe Glitsky, suddenly is investigating a case with manifold political implications. Meanwhile, Dr. Eric Kensing, who was on duty in the ER when Markham was admitted and who has hired Dismas Hardy as his lawyer, soon becomes the prime suspect.(Understandably so, since he has had several professional controversies at the HMO regarding the standard of care being afforded patients as financial pressures interfere with physician decision making. Furthermore, Kensing is separated from his wife due to her long running affair with Markham.) Soon other murders occur; in addition, it appears that several severely ill patients at the hospital have died recently under suspicious circumstances.    Thus, Hardy and Glitsky soon square off and their friendship that has been chronicled through several previous books by Lescroart becomes severely strained. For previous readers of the author , one of the most enjoyable elements of this book will be the further evolution of the lives and relationships of the several of the other characters that have appeared over the years in this series. This is a police and legal procedural, as well as a commentary on medical ethics, politics and greed. Lescroart's plotting is good, but the attempts at misdirection are not as clever as in several of his earlier works. In most instances, it soon becomes obvious in what direction the facts are leading.    This is a fast paced, easy and fun read; it was great not only to catch up with Glitsky and Hardy again as they eventually teamed up to solve another case, but also have another mystery which involved revisiting old familiar friends including David Freeman,Jeff Elliot,Clarence Jackman, Treya Glitsky, and ,of course, Diz's wife Frannie, and their two great kids Rebecca, and Vincent Hardy.     As usual, Lescroart's plotting is believable and his phraseology is enjoyable, I particularly chuckled over the \\"no-humans-involved\\" cases, where everyone already has a substantial criminal record and which are the diametric opposite of this white collar, high rent district crime. What made this novel less compelling than some of the earlier Diz and Abe books were two factors, First,,while the multiple threads of the story were all woven together very well and in the end and all details were explained, they also in some ways made the outcome less surprising. Second, this was not a well edited book; there were some incorrect facts and several small errors which were not caught and while they were of no real consequence they were nevertheless annoying.In the end, I decided that these factors were not enough to lower the rating to three stars but definitely kept it from being on the five star level despite my enjoyment.	2002-09-11
US	50223242	RJCCNV8B2G5CM	0345435281	796467564	Vitals	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Promising But Disappointing - Overambitious and Confusing	Greg Bear has attempted to combine an action thriller about the search for eternal life and its scientific and philosophical implications with a murder mystery and the ultimate conspiracy plot to control humankind. It is a valiant attempt but less would have been more; there are too many story lines and no real conclusion. Perhaps a sequel could sort some of this out, but I would guess most readers will not want to take a chance on repeating the ultimately unsatisfying experience of trying to follow this plot line any further.    The beginning is immensely promising and very fast paced, with Hal Cousins pursuing his search for a scientific basis for eternal life among the mysteries of the ocean depths.A suicide and murder follow, and it soon becomes clear that some unknown organization is able to engage in mind control. Hal's twin brother Rob, competitively and independently engaged in the same quest, is murdered soon after a cryptic conversation with Hal. Hal's life is soon in imminent danger as well.Since Rob is dead, we are cleverly introduced to a second narrator,Ben Bridges, to tell Rob's  story until Ben and Hal join forces.After this, the science and the many story threads become very difficult to follow as they uncover a decades old global conspiracy to control the world begun by the Communists Beria and Stalin utilizing bacteria in our cellular structure for both life extension and mind control. (It has even succesfully infiltrated the US government at the highest levels.)Vitals is further confusing because the biology is esoteric enough so it is not at all clear what is science fact, what is science fiction, and what is science speculation.    There is enough material here so that a writer as talented as Bear could have writen several excellent stories, but less would have been much more enjoyable. Either a sci fi murder conspiracy mystery or a story about the search for eternal life and its philosophical implications would have been both more interestingand more comprehensible.Just like life, this book certainly leaves you with more questions than answers and perhaps it is the final comment on the subject matter that there is really no conclusion, just an ending.	2002-09-03
US	50223242	R9BYBSK45QCIL	0399148779	18749417	Eleventh Hour (An FBI Thriller)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Two for the Price of One	This is a fast moving, well plotted story with two two interrelated mysteries to solve.Father Michael Carver is murdered in his confessional in S.F. and the only witness is Nick Jones, a homeless woman on the run and with a desire to keep her past a secret. Father Michael's twin brother Dane,an FBI agent, of course devasted by the news of his brother's death,immediately rushes to SF from DC and unofficially joins the murder investigation being conducted by the local police.Dillon and Sherlock Savich, Dane's FBI compatriots, soon become involved when evidence of a serial killer develops.(While this is the first book by Coulter that I have read, it is clear that these are characters who have previously appeared in her series of FBI mysteries and readers of those books may be glad to become reacquainted with them.)    This is not an FBI procedural, but rather an action story (potential TV movie) with multiple plot twists and a plethora of suspects.The ingenious device of the murders mimicing a recent TV series adds further complications to the police investigation, as does the unknown relationship of the current events to Nick's past. And, as could be guessed, romance also manages to blossom as Dane and Nick become attracted to each other as they try to stay alive and solve the mysteries they both confront.    I was one for two, as I was kept guessing until the conclusion as to Father Michael's killer but did unravel the clues regarding Nick's real opponent.This had the advantage of being a fast read but still having a complicated plot and good character development. I definitely plan to read another one of the series both for enjoyment and in order see whether the author is simply a formulaic  writer or sufficiently varies her stories to keep my interest.	2002-08-28
US	50223242	R2EMUAM4BCUYE2	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Fun Fun Book	This is vintage Michael Lewis. Entertaining and informative at the same time. The book reads like a novel, you want to keep reading even if you know some of the details of the story. It describes the essence of the New  Economy and the new world of financial markets and fully illustrates how  this era of entrepreneurial capitalism combined with the breakthough  potential of current technological developments are different from any  previous experience. Venture capital is now in the sphere not only of  public consciousness but public participation. And reading about Silicon  Graphics certainly made me glad that I avoided an investment in their stock  when their troubles appeared to be only temporary. The book has something  for anyone interested in the world of business and investing, whether a  professional or casual observer.And it will probably reinforce whatever  your existing prejudices may be, either that this is a once in a several  hundred year opportunity or an insane speculative bubble - or perhaps both.	2000-01-19
