US	50226616	R2Q51E23IMMF97	0374279659	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century	Books	3	4	5	N	N	worth reading, but becoming less relevant as years pass	I will summarize my thoughts briefly on Bill Emmott's book.<br /><br />20:21 Vision begins as an entertaining read and keeps one's attention throughout the book, even to the post-logue.  The book discusses two themes, the rise of Capitalism and its future, and the rise of America and its future.  As you can imagine, Capitalism and America are tightly entwined, but Emmott's book also discusses capitalism's successes and failures in other countries and the effects of globalization.<br /><br />Bill Emmott clearly has his biases.  He is pro-globalization in the same was as Thomas Friedman.  He believes globalization will build an inclusive world where all can participate in a free market.  However, he does admit that government must play a role to make those free markets fair, and that even the free market of the US has governmental controls that work well.  Bill also takes a balanced view to the environment.  To me, it seemed rather optimistic to expect that market forces will choose to uphold environmental values or that there isn't as much risk to the environment as some believe.  I suppose I'm just one of those environmental doomsayers, and Emmott admits he is an optimist in a chapter on 'Paranoid Optimism'.  I would love to believe in his future-vision for globalization and the environment, but I find it all too rosy and unlikely.<br /><br />His chapters on the cause of terrorism were well-founded.  In addition, I enjoyed the lessons on economic ups and downs that are a part of Capitalism, as they help me understand why recessions/depressions happen.<br /><br />Sadly, this book is already out of date in mid-2005, as any future-looking book will be.  An particularly relevant example of the inability to predict the future was the mention that some environmental scientists believe that there could be more hurricanes if the temperatures of the ocean rise above 26 celsius.  Emmott writes that the effect of ocean temperature on weather remains to be seen.  In 2005, there were more hurricanes than any previous year, and the US was rocked by two major hurricanes back to back.  Global warming is having an effect on US politics even while the administration denies its existence.were more hurricanes than any previous year, and the US was rocked by two major hurricanes back to back.  Global warming is having an effect on US politics even while the administration denies its existence.	2005-10-03
US	50226616	R18FRKIRWGLSVT	0970535457	722733375	Jump Start: Crystal Reports Version 9, Level 1: The Basics	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great for classroom training	I used this coursebook to train a class in Crystal Report writing.  Despite the fact that I have been using Crystal Reports for 5 years, I learned new techniques and tips from this book.  The best feature is the story-telling style of the book, taking you from modifying simple reports to creating complex reports on your own.  You play the role of a report designer and are asked to do tasks for a cast of characters.  My personal favorite was your manager - I.M. Bossy.  The class is fun to teach, keeps students engaged, and also achieves its goal.  A good teach-yourself book as well.	2005-08-24
US	50226616	R1HDBB6AR9MURQ	0060523867	783016934	The Confusion (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 2)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Happy jack is back, but otherwise, bored.	The Baroque Cycle is Neal Stephenson's latest fiction undertaking.  Like his other books, it is set in a complex world.  However, unlike his other novels, this three-volume set has a historical setting, and is reminiscent of Russian novels with its many characters and intricate plot.  Three major stories intertwine, along with other episodes, through the three volumes, often intermixing in the most surprising ways.  It has bits of humor, and many references to science and mathematics, as well as other arcana.  Fans of Umberto Eco would enjoy this series.<br /><br />Reading all three volumes took me four months.  As a whole, these books should be read in sequence, and if possible, in rapid sequence.  Otherwise, it is too easy to lose the threads of the plot.  It goes without saying that one would not get much enjoyment from reading one of these out of order or on its own.<br /><br />In this volume, Stephenson tells us that two stories will con-fuse throughout.  Each chapter is also labeled with the name of the book, and the two books are intermixed throughout.  Readers will be glad to see that Jack is in fact not dead.  The first book of the volume opens with Jack working as a galley slave.  He soon forms up a group of likeminded galley slaves and they formulate not only a plan to escape, but also a way to become fabulously wealthy.  The story of their adventures consumes their chapters.  Meanwhile, we see Daniel mature into middle age, until the point where he leaves London for America.<br /><br />The sections on Daniel's life are perhaps the most boring of the series, and thankfully are punctuated with episodes of Jack's adventures.  Sometimes it can be quite difficult to keep one's attention rapt.  It is important to make a mental note of even the tiniest details, as all do appear later in the plot.  I found myself doing a lot of re-reading.  Even Eliza's court intrigues could be a bit hard to follow.	2005-03-30
US	50226616	R2N1Q0TJ0W6FKK	0060593083	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Best Volume of the Three	The Baroque Cycle is Neal Stephenson's latest fiction undertaking.  Like his other books, it is set in a complex world.  However, unlike his other novels, this three-volume set has a historical setting, and is reminiscent of Russian novels with its many characters and intricate plot.  Three major stories intertwine, along with other episodes, through the three volumes, often intermixing in the most surprising ways.  It has bits of humor, and many references to science and mathematics, as well as other arcane.  Fans of Umberto Eco would enjoy this series.<br /><br />One of the main characters is half-cocked Jack Shaftoe, who we watch grow from a childhood in London to old age.  His story reads like a picaresque or pirate novel, and he is probably my favorite character.<br /><br />Another set of characters are a group of Natural Philosophers, mathematicians, biologists, and even alchemists.  These characters are often involved with the complex court politics of this era.  The history of science is here, with many famous names such as Sir Isaac Newton.  However, our main focus is on Daniel Waterhouse, a mild-mannered philosopher who dabbles in many areas, but whose main talent is being the catalyst of the story.  Rather than being an important person, he is that supporting figure without whom the important people could not survive.<br /><br />Finally, the most prominent female character of the series is Eliza, who we meet as a slave of the Ottoman Turks.  Using her wits as well as her beauty, she rises through the ranks of European society.<br /><br />Reading all three volumes took me four months.  As a whole, these books should be read in sequence, and if possible, in rapid sequence.  Otherwise, it is too easy to lose the threads of the plot.  It goes without saying that one would not get much enjoyment from reading one of these out of order or on its own.<br /><br />Quicksilver is the most readable of the three volumes.  After setting up the trilogy with a mystery visitor to Daniel Waterhouse's home in Boston, the story flashes back to split into three distinct sections. The first section deals with Daniel Waterhouse's evolution into an adult and his early friendships with the Royal Society, England's foremost scientists of the Restoration period.  Part two introduces Jack Shaftoe and shows how he meets Eliza during the siege of Vienna, and their adventures together.  In part three, the story focuses solely on Eliza and the early history of stock markets in Amsterdam, as well as the intrigues of Versailles.  Although some of her motivations can be confusing, Eliza ends up being the most dynamic and interesting character.<br /><br />All in all, this is the most exciting volume of the three.  However, once you read this, you will not be able to stop here.  Despite the tedious bits, I wanted to know what happened to Eliza and what exactly happened to Jack.a mystery visitor to Daniel Waterhouse's home in Boston, the story flashes back to split into three distinct sections. The first section deals with Daniel Waterhouse's evolution into an adult and his early friendships with the Royal Society, England's foremost scientists of the Restoration period.  Part two introduces Jack Shaftoe and shows how he meets Eliza during the siege of Vienna, and their adventures together.  In part three, the story focuses solely on Eliza and the early history of stock markets in Amsterdam, as well as the intrigues of Versailles.  Although some of her motivations can be confusing, Eliza ends up being the most dynamic and interesting character. <br /> <br />All in all, this is the most exciting volume of the three.  However, once you read this, you will not be able to stop here.  Despite the tedious bits, I wanted to know what happened to Eliza and what exactly happened to Jack. <br />	2005-03-30
US	50226616	R378Z435FWHJ1I	0060523875	870846652	The System of the World (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 3)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	sometimes felt like more of a challenge than a pleasure.	The Baroque Cycle is Neal Stephenson's latest fiction undertaking.  Like his other books, it is set in a complex world.  However, unlike his other novels, this three-volume set has a historical setting, and is reminiscent of Russian novels with its many characters and intricate plot.  Three major stories intertwine, along with other episodes, through the three volumes, often intermixing in the most surprising ways.  It has bits of humor, and many references to science and mathematics, as well as other arcana.  Fans of Umberto Eco would enjoy this series.<br /><br />Reading all three volumes took me four months.  To say that I feel relieved would be an understatement.  I feel like I just accomplished something huge.  On the other hand, I might have put the same amount of time and effort into reading a REAL classic and been better for it.  Neal Stephenson's writing can be very intellectually challenging, and at times, I wondered if I was up to the task.<br /><br />The final volume, The System of the World, opens with Daniel Waterhouse arriving in London.  London is chaotic, with disagreements about the king's line of succession and mysterious explosions that seem to follow Daniel around.  With new and old acquaintances, he forms a \\"clubb\\" to investigate the explosions.  Meanwhile, strange things are afoot at the mint and Sir Isaac Newton is intent on finding the villain.  Eliza also appears in this book as a supporting character, arriving in London to assist Princess Caroline in claiming her rightful throne.  Jack, too, has come to London with his own secret mission, and of course, his lifelong love for Eliza still intact.<br /><br />This volume falls somewhere between Quicksilver and the Confusion in entertainment value.  While Quicksilver is definitely the quickest read, this volume has its sections.  The story is easier to follow than the Confusion, or perhaps I had finally gotten the hang of remembering the minutiae.<br /><br />One notable thing about this volume is that it has a terrific denouement, which ties up all the loose ends from the entire series and leaves the reader with a warm feeling.  In the past, Stephenson has been criticized for his endings, some ending too quickly, others having a feeling of Deus Ex Machina.  Not so here - the story wraps up in a timely fashion and leaves no one's story untold.his volume is that it has a terrific denouement, which ties up all the loose ends from the entire series and leaves the reader with a warm feeling.  In the past, Stephenson has been criticized for his endings, some ending too quickly, others having a feeling of Deus Ex Machina.  Not so here - the story wraps up in a timely fashion and leaves no one's story untold.   <br /> <br />	2005-03-30
US	50226616	RY2IWO5N7Q7IP	0971594031	557660115	To Asia With Love: A Connoisseurs Guide to Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam	Books	5	38	41	N	N	One of the most delightful travel guides I've come across	This guidebook makes an interesting proposition. Certainly I devoured all the information I could get before my trip to Southeast Asia, and the website associated with this publishing company (thingsasian.com) is one of them.  This book presents itself as a series of anecdotes, sorted into topics that interest travellers.  The food of Southeast Asia, the famous, infamous, and unknown sites, and the people and customers are all covered here in detail.<br /><br />It is part of a new trend of guidebooks that, unlike the \\"yellow-pages\\" listings of a Let's Go or Lonely Planet, covers a few topics deeply.  You may not be able to look up the closest place to buy stamps, but you will read this and become inspired about where you would like to go.  And, unlike many other guidebooks, it's actually entertaining to read even if you are not visiting Southeast Asia.  In fact, I read it a year after I returned from my trip.  I enjoyed both reminiscing over my experiences and dreaming about future trips. Indeed, it was just like attending a party full of experienced travellers.<br /><br />This is a beautiful book, with lush full-page pictures and textual illustrations.  Although you cannot judge a book by its cover, I certainly enjoyed the aesthetics of this guide.  Its small form factor also makes it a good candidate for travel.  I would recommend it as a second book, as it doesn't cover every place in encyclopedic detail.  Nor does it intend to.  It's the kind of book you read as you plan your trip, or to while away a hot tropical day in a Southeast Asian hammock.<br /><br />Each section includes stories, website links, tips, and references.  Yes, there are restaurant recommendations here.  I like the fact that each piece of information comes from a fellow traveller or expat, advice I can trust.<br /><br />It also includes the essays of one of my favorite Internet writers, Andy Brouwer.  I remember pouring over his website for hours.  I'm glad that his writings will now be shared with the reading public.  His essays are only some of the great writing in this book.e shared with the reading public.  His essays are only some of the great writing in this book. <br />	2004-11-02
US	50226616	R3RFU5VLEYB009	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	6	7	N	N	a mediocre suspense-puzzler	Dan Brown's Angels and Demons must often be compared to his bestseller The Da Vinci Code.  As I read Angels and Demons after mostly enjoying the Code, I could not help but make comparisons.  Many have said that these two books have identical plots and that is true.  Brown's depictions of Rome do not irritate the reader as much as his tour guide descriptions of Paris in the Code.  In this book, he describes the sights and sounds of Rome without sounding like the Lonely Planet.  On the other hand, the plot did seem tired.  Older Harvard Professor gets mysterious phone call about a murder, meets young female relative of murdered luminary, and they solve the mystery together while making that special connection.  Depending on which topic you are more interested in, I would suggest that you pick one of these two books and read only that one.  Then you will remain under the illusion that Dan Brown is an illustrious writer.<br /><br />Actually, I won't give him that. Dan Brown is a talented writer that aims his books squarely at the mass market.  His mysteries are designed to make average people feel clever, but sometimes clever people find themselves groaning at Brown.  His tidbits of information, some very common knowledge, can annoy the reader.  It's like hanging out with a know-it-all who can't stop telling you all the great things he has learned.<br /><br />A huge complaint I have with this book is in the characterization of the villain.  This villain is not fleshed out in the least.  He represents a stereotype of evil without any explanation for his behaviour.  Worst of all, the author associates his evil characteristics with his culture and religion - Islam.  This book will no doubt be offensive to most Muslims and/or people from the Middle East.<br /><br />So, is this book exciting?  In parts, yes, Angels and Demons does manage to grab the reader and hook them.  The slow leak of anticipated information is a great technique that Dan Brown uses to the fullest.  The descriptions of Rome are top-notch and as a Bostonian, I do appreciate that the main character hails from my fair city.  If I hadn't already read the Da Vinci Code, I definitely would have appreciated this book more.chnique that Dan Brown uses to the fullest.  The descriptions of Rome are top-notch and as a Bostonian, I do appreciate that the main character hails from my fair city.  If I hadn't already read the Da Vinci Code, I definitely would have appreciated this book more.	2004-08-10
US	50226616	R380M56TUW7T9I	0844244988	939619105	Conversational Italian in 7 Days	Books	4	3	4	N	N	great way to really learn to speak	Conversational Italian in 7 Days is part of a great series.  I used this book and the tapes to learn a bit of Italian before visiting Northern Italy.  With the help of the book, I was able to converse on all the important topics: getting a hotel, buying train tickets, ordering food and drinks, and buying things.  When limited to these areas, I had all the needed vocab to understand the person I was talking to.  I ended up having whole conversations in Italian!<br /><br />One person complimented me on my beautiful Italian accent and asked where I had studied Italian.  I showed him my little book!  The tapes really help with pronunciation and with memorization.  I liked having the book to explain the concepts from the tapes, but I primarily learned from the tapes.  Once in Italy, I used the book as a refresher course.  For example, if I were to ask for a train schedule, I would look up that section in my book.<br /><br />If you are going to Italy, buy this book!  Italians will be charmed when you can speak their language.  You will have access to much more with the language in command.  No longer will you be relegated to the tourist restaurants.  The book also gives cultural tips, which I found very useful.	2004-05-06
US	50226616	R1B4CYJUKH66VK	1889392138	287513911	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thumbs Up to Bridal Bargains	What a fantastic book!  Although it runs the risk of scaring the would-be bride or groom too much of all the scams out there, this resource is one of the best I've found.  The extensive wedding gown section alone is worth the price of the book.  Bridal Bargains covers every area of wedding planning, from cakes to ceremonies.  Each section covers ways to save, pitfalls to avoid, and questions to ask your vendor.<br /><br />The gown section offers many more ways to buy a gown than a simple trip to the bridal salon.  Discount stores, seamstresses, trunk shows, and the biannual rush at Filene's are all covered in detail.  Numerous discount websites are listed, with reviews of their content and service.  Plus, the bride may educate herself on common practices of bridal salons, making her a savvier customer.<br /><br />This book is written in a frank and funny manner.  For once, reading a wedding book, the reader is taken seriously as a fellow adult.  Unlike many bridal magazines, the authors never condescend to the reader.  They talk straight to you, bypassing all the commercially-driven fantasies that most other resources contain.  As I understand it, the authors frequently update this book and welcome feedback from their readers.  I have nothing but praise for the book, but I'll be sure to write in if I come upon any unlisted bridal bargains.	2004-03-02
US	50226616	R132NXU5QVD4PK	1582342644	244690394	Urban Tribes: A Generation Redefines Friendship, Family, and Commitment	Books	2	26	31	N	N	don't believe the hype	By the time the reader realizes that Urban Tribes doesn't even merit the genre &quot;pop-sociology&quot;, he/she is sucked into the narrative of Ethan Watters' personal quest for meaning.  The first several chapters explore human social behaviour in a form that many young adults are familiar with.  With self-congratulatory tones, we read about how our post-college lifestyles have been beneficial not just to ourselves, but to the world.  I, for one, wasn't concerned about whether or not my lifestyle had meaning and had never sought to prove its worth.  This author, however, was clearly very concerned about the merit of his choices and uses the first half of the book to demonstrate that the Urban Tribe lifestyle is both steeped in human sociology and a novel way to deal with the vagaries of singlehood in the early twenty-first century.  Even this section, while peppered with statistics, consists mainly of anecdotal evidence.<br />The second half of the book descends into personal narrative.  Although I did find it quite amusing, Ethan's exploration of male/female relationships as they pertained mostly to himself and his friends did not as I saw it further the message of the earlier part of the book.  I laughed as Ethan attempted to navigate various pop-psychology theories about mating, particularly when he tried to convince his friends that evolutionary psychology should dictate the rules of the game.  Then there is his analysis of the latest dating advice books, such as The Rules.  I hadn't realized that anyone had taken them seriously, but there was an astonishing amount of articles pressuring women to marry.  It is all very entertaining.<br />At the end, as Ethan describes his happy marriage and the transition from tribe-life to married-life, I felt dissatisfied.  If this was to be a book about the Urban Tribe, it should not have become a book about marriage.  If this was a book about marriage, why muddy it with the concept of Urban Tribes?  In the beginning, he takes great care to describe how the &quot;never-marrieds&quot; of his generation are much more than single people, and how they are forging a new type of life for the coming century.  However, his ending reveals that he too believes that marriage is the eventual goal for all people. I don't have a problem with marriage, but I think he lost his way on his own argument.<br />In summary, this book contains a great introduction to the Urban Tribes concept, followed by a very funny personal narrative about dating, and ends with an analysis of marriage in our times.  I cannot say it was a good book, but if I had read each of its parts individually, I would have said I enjoyed them all.kes great care to describe how the &quot;never-marrieds&quot; of his generation are much more than single people, and how they are forging a new type of life for the coming century.  However, his ending reveals that he too believes that marriage is the eventual goal for all people. I don't have a problem with marriage, but I think he lost his way on his own argument.  <br />In summary, this book contains a great introduction to the Urban Tribes concept, followed by a very funny personal narrative about dating, and ends with an analysis of marriage in our times.  I cannot say it was a good book, but if I had read each of its parts individually, I would have said I enjoyed them all.	2004-02-19
US	50226616	R1GG7CF241U3B5	007137230X	537333087	Off the Planet: Surviving Five Perilous Months Aboard the Space Station Mir	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	The truth about life on Mir	Jerry Linenger wrote \\"Off the Planet\\" to describe his out-of-this-world (literally) experiences on the Mir spacestation, as an American astronaut working with the Russians.  This autobiographical book goes into Jerry's adventures with Mir's copious mechanical problems, his reflections on life on earth, and the politics of the cooperative space program between Russia and the United States.  I received this book after Jerry spoke at a conference I attended.  I do not usually read books in this genre, but to my surprise, it was an entertaining read and I ended up purchasing another copy for my father.<br />The format of the book is not exactly chronological.  Each chapter could be a standalone essay, focusing on a different event or issue on Mir.  The early chapters introduce Jerry, and show the progression of his career up to his training for Mir.  The last few chapters go into Jerry's newfound perspective on existence, and the difficult adaptation back to earth life.<br />Jerry's writing style is as direct and unceremonious as his speeches.  He explains complicated scientific issues with ease, and even this liberal arts major could understand what he was talking about.  He talks about lofty topics, like Russian-US relations.  Then he'll move on to discuss how astronauts use the bathroom, or the difficulties of eating pretzels in space.<br />There have been quite a few criticisms of this book.  Some have said that Jerry is egotistical.  If he hadn't admitted this fault in the book, I wouldn't have noticed it.  It seems appropriate for an accomplished astronaut to be proud of his work.  Others claim that there is another side to the story, but there is always another side to the story.  I know that I am reading about Mr. Linenger's perspective of the events on Mir, and I can put it into context with other published works.<br />I already agree with the sentiments with which Jerry Linenger sums up his book.  He tells us that we should live each day as if it is our last, to enjoy all the natural bounties that the earth gives us, and to value our precious time on the planet.  Each breath of oxygen and moment in the sunlight should be cherished.  I completely agree.  One way that this book has changed me is that it has made me more aware of the space program.  When I hear about unmanned landings on Mars or even events on Mir, I perk up and listen more closely than I had in the past.ast, to enjoy all the natural bounties that the earth gives us, and to value our precious time on the planet.   Each breath of oxygen and moment in the sunlight should be cherished.  I completely agree.  One way that this book has changed me is that it has made me more aware of the space program.  When I hear about unmanned landings on Mars or even events on Mir, I perk up and listen more closely than I had in the past.	2004-01-14
US	50226616	R2TQL84J3XUASS	1573228737	595147475	Affinity	Books	5	4	4	N	N	dark and surprising	Affinity is more polished than Waters' previous award-winner \\"Tipping the Velvet\\".  While Tipping the Velvet was an epic of love and position lost and gained over a lifetime, Affinity focuses on a short period of time and two main characters.  The scope of this novel is as tight as a short story, with no trailing pieces left unresolved.  There is definitely a Gothic touch, with the dark brooding prison, the yellowish London fogs, and the black mourning clothes that the heroine must wear.  This book could be described as a mix of the mysteries of Sherlock Holmes with a Dickensian critique of Victorian society.<br />The story is about a Lady Visitor, Margaret, who begins visiting the women of Millbank prison because charity work should help get her mind off her dear father's death.  There she meets Selina Dawes, a spiritualist who is jailed for an assault that occurred during one of her seances.  There are many mystical things that happen in this book, and the reader is left to puzzle out whether to believe in the spirits or look for a logical explanation.  Margaret herself is a skeptic, not sure whether to believe in Selina's tales of spirit friends.<br />The ending comes as quite a surprise, and like the Sixth Sense or Fight Club, will have you paging backwards to look for the clues you missed.	2003-12-29
US	50226616	R365KLYRTAK8A7	043942089X	708788000	The Thief Lord	Books	5	3	3	N	N	this book defies the oft-resigned world of adulthood	This book was billed as the next Harry Potter, and while it probably will not create an international craze, there is a quiet buzz about it among children and children's booklovers.  It takes place in Venice, as seen through the eyes of children.  The heroes are streetkids, runaways, powerless in the world of adults but adept at creating their own world.  They live in an abandoned movie theater, and their leader is the Thief Lord, an pre-adolescent boy himself with a penchant for wearing dramatic masks.  Prosper and his little brother Bo join the gang, having run away from their aunt after being orphaned.  Their aunt wished to take Bo as a child but put Prosper in a boarding school far from his brother.<br />The adult perspective in the story is Victor Getz, private detective.  He is hired by Esther to seek out the boys, but becomes their friend.  With his eccentric habits and his unusual job, he can relate more to children than to other adults.  Still, through him, we view reality as it is and can contrast it with the children's experiences.<br />When the Thief Lord and his gang are asked to perform a job, stealing a wooden wing from a wealthy woman on behalf of a mysterious Comte who promises to pay them 5 million lire, the adventure truly begins.  The story masterfully unfolds, keeping the reader hooked on its plot twists.  It is really quite a wonderful book, with a heartwarming ending that only true children can still believe in.  Adults too often become cynics.  Appropriately, this book is much about the world of children vs the world of adulthood, and the places of dreams and fantasies vs. the grim reality.	2003-11-28
US	50226616	R1VQ5UXYW087I4	1560255110	726638181	Genocide of the Mind: New Native American Writing (Nation Books)	Books	4	56	58	N	N	Eye-opening, diverse in its opinions, a good read.	Genocide of the Mind: New Native American Writing  is a series of essays on a variety of Native American topics, from the naming of mascots to stereotypes to growing up with a mixed background.  There are even opinions about whether it's appropriate to use the term Indian, Native American, or indigenous people.<br />One question it presents is whether Native Americans have a different way of relating to the world than other Americans.  Also, there is much in here about racism, the more subtle racism that exists today vs. the obvious genocide that occurred in past centuries.  Reading the book, I felt sad that my family traditions were lost, wondering if my great-grandfather was forced to assimilate. Perhaps he was sent to a boarding school or resettled with a white family. Was it because of racism that he did not pass down the culture or even the name of his tribe?<br />The book is a compilation of essays, so there are many different viewpoints.  Because many Native Americans are now also part-European, there was much discussion on what is a real Indian and if that question is even valid. Some people believe that you can never be Native American if you were not raised in that culture.  Another idea I've heard elsewhere repeated here is that no one is part Indian - you are either Native American or you're not.  Some wrote that it was important to learn and preserve your tribal languages and customs, even if your predecessors did not do so.<br />The essays on mascots was very eye-opening.  Previously, I always thought that mascots shouldn't be a big issue, as long as we have teams called &quot;the vikings&quot;, why not &quot;the Indians&quot;. But after reading several essays on it, I have completely changed my mind. Apparently &quot;redskin&quot; has nothing to do with skin color but because of a bounty that the English government put out on native americans (red - i.e. bloody). In that light, it is really horrible that &quot;redskins&quot; is a team name! To continue on the topic of my reactions to the book, I have wondered whether I would have the same strong reactions if I was reading a book about a different race, one that I have no connection to.<br />The book made me think about a lot of things that I haven't thought about it before, or not all at once. I especially could relate to the sections written by people who were of mixed ancestry like myself. We have had a lot of common experiences, from comments on our hair and skin color to confusion about our ancestry.  As it turns out, I am not the only one that is often mistaken for Spanish or Italian!<br />The last section was about perceptions of Native Americans vs. the reality. For example, many Americans believe that Native Americans have died out. History and anthrolopogy books speak about Native American tribes in the past tense.  Then there are the depictions of Native Americans on television and in children's books.  Pocahontas, the nymphette of the Disney movies, does not represent Native American woman.  Nor does Sacajawea.  Or any of the Western sidekicks or villains.<br />Because of these stereotypes, some modern Native Americans have been told that they are not Native American by Caucasians because they do not conform to the stereotype - i.e. the feathers, the tipi, etc.  This story sounded so familiar that I was quite sure it had happened to me as well.e on the topic of my reactions to the book, I have wondered whether I would have the same strong reactions if I was reading a book about a different race, one that I have no connection to. <br />The book made me think about a lot of things that I haven't thought about it before, or not all at once. I especially could relate to the sections written by people who were of mixed ancestry like myself. We have had a lot of common experiences, from comments on our hair and skin color to confusion about our ancestry.  As it turns out, I am not the only one that is often mistaken for Spanish or Italian!<br />The last section was about perceptions of Native Americans vs. the reality. For example, many Americans believe that Native Americans have died out. History and anthrolopogy books speak about Native American tribes in the past tense.  Then there are the depictions of Native Americans on television and in children's books.  Pocahontas, the nymphette of the Disney movies, does not represent Native American woman.  Nor does Sacajawea.  Or any of the Western sidekicks or villains.<br />Because of these stereotypes, some modern Native Americans have been told that they are not Native American by Caucasians because they do not conform to the stereotype - i.e. the feathers, the tipi, etc.  This story sounded so familiar that I was quite sure it had happened to me as well.	2003-10-24
US	50226616	R2Z29BY9CB6RUJ	1573227889	440138927	Tipping the Velvet: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	engaging lesbian romance	No one would say that Tipping the Velvet is a great work of literature that will live on for time unending.  Rather, it's an engaging historical romance of a lesbian nature.  It is written far better than your average romance novel, but follows the same basic plotline of girl meets girl, girl loses girl, girl finds love in the end.  The novel paints a bright and dark picture of Victorian London, of music halls and renter boys, toms and socialists.  In this way, it goes beyond the typical romance material and explores the social issues of the time in great depth, always from the perspective of the characters.  The sex scenes are quite eye-opening, and are the only reason I could not recommend this to my mother.  That is not to say that I did not enjoy reading them!  In fact, all of Sarah Waters' first book is quite good at putting the reader in the moment, your hopes soaring along with the main character and dropping like a stone when she experiences heartbreak.  I am looking forward to reading the author's other books, because this book's ending was bittersweet.  Nancy, our protagonist, has found love, but I, the reader, must put the book down and leave this lavishly painted world for the 21st century.	2003-10-22
US	50226616	R3TVESTYAZHQ52	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	the most engaging biography of the geisha lifestyle	This is an excellent read, and one that I recommend to all of my friends.  I read this book twice, demonstrating that it was worthy of a re-read.  I have even given this book as a gift, the highest praise of all.<br />Memoirs of a Geisha is simply the most engaging biography of the geisha lifestyle.  It follows a geisha from her sale to an okiya or geisha house as a child to her triumph over a competitive housemate and ending at her retirement to New York City.  The storytelling is supreme, and it doesn't matter if literary license is taken.  At heart, Memoirs is a love story.  It is also a coming-of-age story that most young women can relate to.	2003-10-17
US	50226616	R24KAX9J2LROPQ	074343059X	87427385	Geisha of Gion: The True Story of Japan's Foremost Geisha (Memoir of Mineko Iwasaki)	Books	3	25	52	N	N	nice autobiography but lacks something	Having read both Memoirs of a Geisha and the Geisha of Gion, one must include that either the geisha life changed very much from pre to postwar, or that one of these two girls is mis-representing the truth.  While there are many similarities in the two books, the Geisha of Gion paints a prettier picture than Memoirs.  Of course, little Mineko was always the adopted daughter of the okiya and did not have to contend with the hardships that other geisha faced.<br />At first, the main character seems strange for a little girl, even a little obnoxious.  One must assume this is because the author is remembering her childhood, and hindsight is as they say 20/20.  The story begins a bit slowly, but does become quite interesting and follows the geisha's career to her retirement at a young age.  Her life is a brighter, happier place than other geishas I've read about although she is oddly introverted and anti-social.  There is a bit of romance in the story, but it is told matter-of-factly.<br />In total, it is quite obvious that this is  an autobiographical work because it is lacking the storytelling genius of Memoirs of a Geisha.  It starts at the beginning of Mineko's life and ends with her retirement, with little suspense inbetween.  To learn more about geishas in the mid-twentieth century, it is undoubtedly an excellent source.  As a story, it lacks magic.	2003-10-17
US	50226616	R20N897MXD3MU3	0609809547	96463930	Tales of a Female Nomad: Living at Large in the World	Books	3	55	87	N	N	first two sections worth reading	How can a book go from great to terrible so quickly?  Rita's story starts out inspirationally, a divorced housewife starting life anew in a small Zapotec village.  Rita continues to visit Honduras, Guetemala, and Nicaragua, all during a time of political strife and US interventions.  It continues, the reader fascinated, as Rita manages to get a place to stay in Borneo with a famous anthropologist.<br />Then she arrives in Bali, where she stays for many years.  The soliloquies are weaker here, the story less detailed, and certainly less interesting.  Suddenly, Rita, an exciting journeyer, starts to lose her charm.  The story in Bali isn't fleshed out enough to make it come alive.<br />It is difficult to read as Rita goes from intrepid traveller to an overweight senior.  As a lifelong exerciser, it was hard for me to sympathise with Rita's admitted difficulties in training for the trek.  She writes that she simply couldn't motivate herself.<br />I found myself skipping pages and speed-reading, vainly hoping that the book was going to get good again.  It didn't.	2003-08-12
US	50226616	RU5URZKRHVMY8	0312267177	568984342	Catfish and Mandala: A Two-Wheeled Voyage Through the Landscape and Memory of Vietnam	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One part travel novel, one part family saga	Catfish and Mandala is about the author's journey to Vietnam to get in touch with his roots. Andrew is a Vietnamese-American that immigrated to the US shortly after Vietnam's reunification. &quot;Mandala&quot; signifies a bicycle wheel, as Andrew's journey is undertaken on bicycle. His stories of modern-day Vietnam are interdispersed with his mother's memories and his own memories of his childhood in Vietnam and the US. This story is mind-broadening -- I am amazed at the difficult trials he experienced at such a young age. Andrew also has to come to terms with his incredible luck when compared to people still living in Vietnam. Viet-Khieu - Vietnamese-Americans - are not always received warmly in Vietnam.<br />At the same time that Catfish and Mandala reveals truths about Vietnam that no Westerner would ever unveil, it also tells about the racism in US society that many of us never experience. I was shocked to read about the subtle and outright racism that is a part of his life in the US. At the same time, the author maintains a love for the United States, only made stronger by his visit to his fatherland.<br />The writing is fantastic. The descriptions are vivid, employing all five senses. I enjoyed the invented words - combinations of two English words - that Pham used to express concepts in Vietnamese. I am learning Vietnamese, so I could appreciate what he was trying to translate. They say that when you learn a language, you learn more about its culture and people. Andrew Pham bridges the gap for non-Vietnamese speakers. Words like &quot;Brother-Friend&quot; and &quot;Neighbor-Relative&quot; express the relationships between Vietnamese people. In Vietnamese, you use different words depending on the age, status, and intimacy of a relationship between you and another person. Andrew explains this early in the book, and so his phrases make sense.<br />Catfish and Mandala, so far, is one of the best books I have read this year, perhaps the best. 24 hours after I started it, I had finished it. The writing is hilarious, tragic, vivid, visceral. I can see the beggars, smell the rain-damp air, visualize the author's changing relationship with his homeland as he immerses himself in it. This book definitely deserves all the awards and accolades it has already received and then some. I am of a mind to go out and buy it for everyone I know.<br />For the past two days, I have come home from work, sat on the couch to read it, and not moved for several hours. Not even hunger could interrupt me. I have even attempted to read it in the car, during those long traffic lights. Such is the grip that this book takes hold, having a sense of when to lighten the story with tales of cultural misunderstandings contrasted with the intense stories of his family.rted it, I had finished it. The writing is hilarious, tragic, vivid, visceral. I can see the beggars, smell the rain-damp air, visualize the author's changing relationship with his homeland as he immerses himself in it. This book definitely deserves all the awards and accolades it has already received and then some. I am of a mind to go out and buy it for everyone I know.<br />For the past two days, I have come home from work, sat on the couch to read it, and not moved for several hours. Not even hunger could interrupt me. I have even attempted to read it in the car, during those long traffic lights. Such is the grip that this book takes hold, having a sense of when to lighten the story with tales of cultural misunderstandings contrasted with the intense stories of his family.	2003-08-11
US	50226616	R3GNKD6PEDD899	0312267177	568984342	Catfish and Mandala: A Two-Wheeled Voyage Through the Landscape and Memory of Vietnam	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unveils the complex relationship between Vietnam and America	Catfish and Mandala is about the author's journey to Vietnam to get in touch with his roots.  Andrew is a  Vietnamese-American that immigrated to the US shortly after Vietnam's reunification.  &quot;Mandala&quot; signifies a bicycle wheel, as Andrew's journey is undertaken on bicycle.  His stories of modern-day Vietnam are interdispersed with his mother's memories and his own memories of his childhood in Vietnam and the US. This story is mind-broadening -- I am amazed at the difficult trials he experienced at such a young age.  Andrew also has to come to terms with his incredible luck when compared to people still living in Vietnam.  Viet-Khieu - Vietnamese-Americans - are not always received warmly in Vietnam.<br />At the same time that Catfish and Mandala reveals truths about Vietnam that no Westerner would ever unveil, it also tells about the racism in US society that many of us never experience.  I was shocked to read about the subtle and outright racism that is a part of his life in the US.  At the same time, the author maintains a love for the United States, only made stronger by his visit to his fatherland.  <br />Catfish and Mandala, so far, is one of the best books I have read this year, perhaps the best.  24 hours after I started it, I had finished it.  The writing is hilarious, tragic, vivid, visceral. I can see the beggars, smell the rain-damp air, visualize the author's changing relationship with his homeland as he immerses himself in it. This book definitely deserves all the awards and accolades it has already received and then some.  I am of a mind to go out and buy it for everyone I know.<br />For the past two days, I have come home from work, sat on the couch to read it, and not moved for several hours. Not even hunger could interrupt me. I have even attempted to read it in the car, during those long traffic lights.  Such is the grip that this book takes hold, having a sense of when to lighten the story with tales of cultural misunderstandings contrasted with the difficult stories of his family.	2003-08-08
US	50226616	R3DSI0XT2L9AJ	0060505664	629884050	The Warrior's Bond (Tale of Einarinn)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nobles are dull subject matter for the Warrior's Bond.	Juliet McKenna's latest installment focuses again on Ryshad.  We have seen many sides of Ryshad now, from intriguing swordsman to clever slave.  Here, we see Ryshad the servant.  Returning to service with the D'Olbriots isn't easy for Ryshad, who has gotten used to making his own decisions.  Nor is it easy to be separated from his beloved Livak.<br />The Elietimm must be taking time off from terrorizing the land, because we see little of them in this book.  No, the villains of this book are closer to home - the Tor Bezaemar family, rivals of the D'Olbriots.  Temar, the newly-awoken noble from Kellarin, is caught up in the intrigues between noble houses, all the while trying to catch up on what has happened during his long sleep.  Ryshad assists Temar as best he can while still honoring his oath.<br />This book is not as interesting as previous books.  The idylls of the rich and famous are not as fascinating as the jams Livak would get herself into.  It does serve as an history of the Empire, and a tome to the complex social hierarchy of this land.<br />Sometimes both sorcery and artifice seemed just a little too convenient, devices to get our protagonists out of trouble or to tie up loose plot ends.  I hope this trend doesn't continue, as I lauded the low-magic aspects of the first book.<br />I was relieved when I finished the book, after struggling to get through some of the duller moments.  I usually give my favorite authors a few chances to redeem themselves, and the end of this book sets things up nicely for a better fifth installment.	2003-08-05
US	50226616	R1CD8471BBD6MP	0375405844	927362025	The River's Tale: A Year on the Mekong	Books	4	3	6	N	N	enjoyable travelogue - good backgrounder	This is an enjoyable travelogue to read that covers Tibet, Southern China, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam.  The author has a different perspective on the countries than an ordinary traveller, and even has his own ideas about travellers.<br />I enjoyed reading this book as I prepared for my upcoming trip, because it gave me a taste of what I would experience.  You can easily read a chapter, all of which stand alone, or read the entire book from cover to cover.	2003-07-16
US	50226616	R1I1MBKKEXZMJX	020139815X	596566839	Software Engineering (6th Edition)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	most definitely a textbook	This book is an encyclopedic volume of knowledge about Software Engineering, and proceeds from the beginning of the process to the end, with tangents being in the last few chapters.  It has the feel of a textbook, with exercises and Key Points at the end of each chapter.<br />That said, it isn't very entertaining and if it hadn't been my course book, I would have chosen a different Software Engineering text.  This book is a great supplemental reference to get more detailed information.  I keep it on my shelf at work as a handy reference.	2003-07-15
US	50226616	R348IIWC5MRH4R	0812992180	435704271	Vagabonding: An Uncommon Guide to the Art of Long-Term World Travel	Books	4	190	198	N	N	great little travel philosophy book	Rolf Potts' tome of vagabonding is an inspirational work rather than a practical guide.  While the same practical information is contained in other books, this book shines in the area of travel philosophy.  Travel is like a religion, where some people are incredibly fervent about it, while others just don't understand.  This book makes you realize that long-term travel is not only possible, but desirable and worthwhile.<br />I particularly liked the section on working for travel.  As a 9-to-5 worker planning a long-term trip, I needed the inspiration to keep going.  I liked being told that working will actually make me appreciate travel more.  After all, to afford travel, I have to be here anyway.<br />Throughout the book, there are great little excerpts from famous travellers, philosophers, and explorers, as well as anecdotes from ordinary travellers.  Rolf has a particular liking for Walt Whitman, and I may just have to go pick up some Walt poetry now.  The literary references in this book let you know that world travel and a simple life aren't new concepts.<br />The only problem I see with this book is that it may soon become dated with its references to specific websites.<br />The book is of a small and convenient size to take on the road.	2003-07-14
US	50226616	R1VS6LSAD07U9T	0312305931	457272776	Let's Go 2003: Southeast Asia	Books	3	9	9	N	N	covers a lot, but not in detail	It goes without saying that trying to cover a huge region of the world is going to be broad and shallow.  As of June 2003, Let's Go Southeast Asia was the most recently revised of all the general books on Southeast Asia.<br />Let's Go Southeast Asia would be good for a traveller spending a great deal of time seeing most of the countries, or for someone trying to decide which countries to visit.  The book manages to cover a huge amount of material about both the mainland and island portions of Southeast Asia, including a large section on Indonesia and the Phillipines.<br />The book fails when it comes to hotel and restaurant recommendations.  Only a few budget places are mentioned in each section.<br />I applaud the book for covering even the non-touristy cities.  For example, it tells you that Suribaya is a dangerous place to visit and does not recommend going there.  This is a useful piece of information since many flights go into Suribaya, and the traveller might otherwise been tempted to go there.	2003-07-14
US	50226616	R1LJOY9RE93JAM	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Amazing As Usual	Some have called Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix the darkest hour for Harry, the \\"Empire Strikes Back\\" of the series.  I would disagree.  The book does stay in darker territory for much of the text, but ends on an elated note as the primary enemy is defeated and some of the series-long enemies are deflated.  Cedric's death and Harry's vision of his parents at the end of book IV was a lot more shocking than anything that happens in book V.<br />The Order of the Phoenix starts out slowly, taking over 200 pages before Harry is back at Hogwarts.  In the meantime, we are exposed to more adult wizards.  This book is really about growing up, as the teens think about careers, difficult exams, and the opposite sex.  There is also a theme about family, and getting new perspectives on other people.  It's definitely clear that Harry has become a teenager, and you will groan as you read about his foibles in dating.<br />This book ends on a contemplative note, with Harry knowing much more about himself and his family.  Going back to Privet drive doesn't seem like it's going to be as terrible as previous years, and the reader ends the book with a satisfied smile, content to wait for Rowling's next installment.	2003-07-10
US	50226616	R1TADIXHY5L61P	0449211827	395182601	Plague Dogs	Books	3	13	24	N	N	not necessarily enjoyable, but important	This may not be an enjoyable book, but it's an important book.  It is important because it touches on the horror of animal experimentation, which so contrasts with Western culture's professed love for domesticated animals.  If you don't already boycott animal-testing companies, it will make you want to check the labels on all your products.  You will want to write letters to your congresspeople after reading this book, and you will be glad that many corporations already have taken heed and ceased animal testing.<br />It is difficult read for a number of reasons.  The poetic writing style can make it confusing as to whose mind we are hearing, and the fact that one of the characters is quite mad can also add to the confusion.  Add to that the dialect used by the characters, and you will have to concentrate to understand what is being expressed.<br />The first half of the book is far more exciting and interesting than the second half, but it is important to stick it out to read the end.<br />One thing that bothered me was the author's self-referentialism.  He actually refers to himself and the book 'Watership Down' in the third person.  And at another point, he breaks the scene to start speaking frankly to the audience as the author.  For this reason, Plague Dogs seemed amateurish next to his other works.  Because of its important message, I wish it could have been a better book.	2003-05-28
US	50226616	R1AGVZFCVLEIPZ	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	0	1	N	N	fast and compelling read	This is another hit from Amy Tan about mother-daughter relationships.  Once again, it focuses the similarities and differences between a Chinese-American daughter and her traditional, even superstitious, mother.<br />The tale of Lu Ling, and of her bonesetter mother, is really inspiring.  I really enjoyed reading about early 20th century China, and there is even a sort of mystery in the book about LuLing's past and the identity of her mother.  The story unfolds to us at the same time that it unfolds to Ruthie, the daughter who is dealing with her mother's memory loss.  My close friend's mother also suffered from a stroke, and I know firsthand how difficult it can be when a parent becomes more like a child.  Also, Ruth's relationship with her live-in lover is very commonplace and identifiable.<br />I read many Amy Tan books when I was still a child and they were wonderful then.  As an adult woman, they resonate so much more in that parts of my own experiences are reflected.  This book is a fast and compelling read.  I'm sorry I waited so long to pick it up.	2003-05-22
US	50226616	R3CKJ3M6FPAWA7	0684845911	302270862	The City In Mind: Notes on the Urban Condition	Books	3	16	16	N	N	a quick if disjointed read	A City in Mind is a quick read.  Each chapter presents a city from Kunstler's unique point of view.  He often spends a great deal of time on the history of the city - sometimes too much time - but the reader learns about why the city developed as it did.  Some chapters are brilliant.  The history of post-revolution Paris is quite fascinating, especially when compared to London.  Rome, as one of the first major Western cities, is thankfully not left out.  And as a Boston resident, I greatly enjoyed the chapter on Boston, particularly as he named Boston as the city most likely to thrive in the coming century.<br />Kunstler rips into Las Vegas like no other city before.  I enjoy his sarcastic diatribes, but I know some people who are annoyed by them.  After reading about Las Vegas, I can honestly say I'm glad that I've never been there.  On the other hand, I think I could have attempted to have a bit more fun than JHK had I spent some time there.<br />This is not the best of Kunstler's books, but as a die-hard Kunstler fan, I had to read it.  I would recommend the would-be reader to start with Geography of Nowhere or Home from Nowhere.  Both lay the groundwork for understanding where A City In Mind is coming from.  Kunstler writes a kind of sarcastic, comedic commentary on the state of our world when he isn't praising new urbanism - my favorite urban movement.	2003-05-22
US	50226616	R4F2HM0SF9NKX	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	4	7	N	N	good historical feminist fiction	This is a great story that highlights the life of Biblical figures I had previously known little about.  I think we can all agree that women besides Mary are not often elaborated on in the actual bible.<br />The concept of a Red Tent, a place where women go for menses and childbirth, is a wonderful concept.  Menstruation was celebrated instead of something to be ashamed of.  One of the messages I took out of this book was that being female is something quite special.  I also felt it emphasized sisterhood and caring for other women.  These are all values we could stand to have a little more of.  I can see why this book was so popular.	2003-05-22
US	50226616	R2K31T6FIVBBPQ	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	4	8	8	N	N	a new way to think about life's ups and downs	Let me just say upfront that I'm a pretty skeptical person and I don't go in for touchy-feely stuff very easily.  That said, I really enjoyed this book and think that almost anyone could get something out of it.<br />It is a series of discussions with the Dalai Llama and the author's reflections on his words.  The author makes an honest attempt to understand the presented doctrine, but doesn't hesitate to ask probing questions.  Sometimes he even gets the Dalai Llama to think about things in a new way!<br />For me, the main theme of the book was about patience, tolerance, and understanding.  It has certainly changed my perspective on human behaviour, and I feel I am calmer for this.  Although I am not capable yet of embracing all the qualities that this book espouses, I am definitely changed by reading it.	2003-05-22
US	50226616	R1ZIEISXY3AXMQ	1570424810	1192464	Naked	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Surprisingly Disappointing	This is my first audiobook and thus my first experience with the effect live narration has on text.  I will say that every other David Sedaris essay I have read has been uproariously funny.  I read both Holidays on Ice and Me Talk Pretty One Day.<br />This book wasn't as funny.  I enjoyed the honest and heartfelt coming out story of &quot;I Like Guys&quot;.  However, many of the essays were sad or even boring.  I felt myself wishing the segment would be over so I could see if the next one would be funnier.  I had no idea David's childhood had been so painful.  I guess this just wasn't what I expected from the author of Holidays On Ice.<br />I cannot gauge if I may have found it more entertaining to read than to listen to.	2003-02-24
US	50226616	R24ZN3QXPV2ZLX	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Does everything well.	Rarely have I been more riveted to a book.  I even dreamed about the characters when I'd put it down for the night.  Martin's world is vividly frescoed across his epic tale.  This is a high fantasy in its complexity, but grittily realistic in its medieval setting.<br />I was impressed by Martin's restraint.  He doesn't linger on any topic gratuitously as so many authors are prone to do.  Sex scenes, war scenes, love scenes, and descriptions will never make you groan, as they are all described with just the perfect portion of words.<br />There is a character in this book for anyone to relate to.  My particular favorite were Jon Snow - the Stark [guy] who pledges himself to the austere life on the Night's Watch, a near-monastic order that guards a Hadrian-like wall from the savageries of the  north.  I also enjoyed the tomboyish Arya - a noble-born girl who learns to swordfight with or without her father's permission.<br />I am not one for battle scenes, but I enjoyed this in this book.  Also, complex politics can bore me in a fantasy novel, but they are so well-done that I enjoyed these sections as well.  Normally, if a book has a chapter on each character as this one does, I will dislike some characters and want to skip their chapters.  However, each character's story is so interesting in its own way that I didn't want to do that this time.<br />In short, read it.	2003-01-30
US	50226616	R366HA3DJD8SBO	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	2	4	N	N	eye-opening book makes one thankful	Nickel and Dimed is a documentary of a middle-aged, middle-class writer that goes undercover in a variety of low-wage positions: waitress in a family restaurant, hotel and in-home maid, nursing home helper, and Wal-Mart associate. Her goal is to determine whether these common jobs could support a single person. These jobs challenge the author's expectations. She learns that no one can tell the difference between her and the other low-wage workers; all her education and upbringing do not distinguish her. She also had her belief confirmed that it is difficult to support one person, let alone a family, on minimum wage. Throughout all this, Barbara keeps us entertained, with the sometimes funny, sometimes depressing, anecdotes of her experiences.<br />Much of the benefits that the professional classes take for granted - affordable healthcare and flexible hours for example - mare not offered to the low-wage worker. This consciousness-raising book delivers the news that America's poor are not lazy - they have a much harder lot than many of us can imagine.<br />Some have criticized Ehrenreich for her background, but it gave her a better perspective because it was so different. Having experienced the benefits of an autonomous writing career allowed her to make a comparison between that and the near-dictatorial nature of low-wage work. Some of her co-workers seemed almost content with conditions that Barbara realized were inherently unfair. It took someone from a different milieu to recognize the injustices fully, and the author was in a position to express these thoughts to a large audience.	2003-01-14
US	50226616	R24VAO7VFGZQ7E	007138331X	849557705	Fed Up! : The Breakthrough Ten-Step, No-Diet Fitness Plan	Books	5	9	10	N	N	revolutionary yet so natural!	This excellent book was a wake-up call that I sorely needed.  I have been on Weight Watchers for a year and a half, and thought I had dealt with all my food demons.  Yet I was living in fear of food - going to the extent of throwing it away and hiding it from myself!  Wendy Oliver-Pyatt's book covers why many Americans have a love/hate relationship with food, and why diets do not work.<br />The first several chapters are about one's psychological relationship with food.  Much of it stems in the way we are raised, and the way that our culture treats food.  We have an abundance of food in America, and at the same time, thin bodies are the ideal.  Both food and thinness are fetishized, leading many men and women into a quandary.<br />Wendy explains how diets do work in the short-term, but in the long-term they can cause depression, food cravings, and weight-gain.  She struck a chord with me when she mentioned how many people are afraid to eat normally because they fear gaining weight.<br />I have already started to try Wendy's suggested mindset.  She talks about honoring your hunger without overeating, and exercising to the extent that you still enjoy it.  I have friends that can seemingly eat whatever they like without worrying about it like I do.  Then I notice that they don't seem to obsess over food, and they naturally take as much as their body needs - no more no less.  This is what the book's author suggests as the way to reach your optimum body weight.<br />Of course, I already eat fairly healthy and exercise regularly.  I think this book is best for dietaholics, people who are tired of restricting themselves, but are concerned about maintaining a healthy weight if they stop.  I already want to send copies to some of my friends and am planning on bringing this book to my Weight Watchers meeting.	2003-01-12
US	50226616	R2NS7Q218OMKGE	0967673712	414994066	Princess Sultana's Circle	Books	3	2	4	N	N	More personal than political.	Princess Sultana's Circle is the third book of Jean Sasson's biographical accounts of a Saudi Royal's life.  To be honest, Princess and Princess Sultana's Daughters were better books.  However, if you enjoyed those, you will enjoy this one too.<br />There is far less of a focus on women's rights in this book, and it reads like a series of anecdotes from Sultana's life.  However, the extravagant lifestyle and the restrictive (by Western standards) customs of the Saudi Arabian elite make for interesting reading.<br />In this book, Princess Sultana learns a bit more about herself, as she visits Bedouin tent villages, attends her niece's wedding to a much older man, and battles with alcoholism.  The title refers to a protective circle of women, which Sultana asks us to form whenever we see women in trouble.	2002-12-26
US	50226616	RV431BPZHQE8K	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	5	5	N	N	engaging and fast-paced dark fantasy	I just finished Neil Gaiman's Neverwhere.  Both my friend and myself read through it at a ravenous pace, as the book is difficult to put down.  For all its fairytale otherwordliness, this is no children's story.  This deals with adult themes and situations.<br />The setting is London's underground tunnels and rooftops - an alternate reality that exists in the spaces inbetween.  Richard, the main character, is an ordinary man who stops one day to help an injured girl and finds himself thrown in this alternate reality.  No one from his previous ordinary life can see or hear him, and he is forced to deal with this new and confusing world.  In this world, rats can speak and a raggedy earl holds court in abandoned subway stations.  Here is where the book becomes an engaging fantasy in a dark milieu.  Richard, not having other options, joins a quest to help the girl avenge her family and hopes someday to return to the surface.<br />Previously, I had only read Gaiman's graphic novels, and Gaiman can paint a picture with prose just as well as with colored inks.  The settings and characters are lavishly drawn, and each scene is fully imaginable in three-dimensions.  The connections between real London locations and the underworld add a touch of reality.<br />The book touches on the theme of homelessness, and &quot;invisible people&quot;.  The people of this alternate universe look like vagrants to ordinary Londoners, if they are seen at all.  To most people, they are invisible.  This is a metaphor for all the invisible people in our world.  Gaiman even touches on the fact that service people can be invisible, as Richard greets the doorman of his office building for the first time after experiencing being invisible himself.<br />The setting reminded me of the documentary book, The Mole People, if it were taken one step further.  Neverwhere poses the question whether the homeless man talking to himself is crazy, or is it just that we cannot see what he sees?	2002-12-09
US	50226616	R3DLFBEQKTXJZ6	0201694719	522974154	Database Design for Mere Mortals: A Hands-On Guide to Relational Database Design	Books	5	12	13	N	N	a turning point in my career	If a computer book can be life-changing, this one would be.  I had been working with databases for some time, but had no formal training.  Often, I didn't understand the terms flying around, although I understood the concepts.  This book defined all those database terms from normalization to join tables.  It revolutionized the way I design databases.<br />I particularly liked the focus on designing on paper first, because this provides a great requirements document and the basis for a user manual!  Hernandez teaches you how to talk to the stakeholders and determine what the database needs to represent.  He has a method for transforming a user interview into table and field names.<br />The book is well-laid out with lots of examples, a typeset that's easy on the eyes, and extremely clear prose.<br />I can't imagine where I would be today if I hadn't bought this book a year ago.  My employers paid much less for this book than any class I have taken, and yet this has had the largest impact on the way I develop.  Database applications I created after reading the book have gotten lots of good feedback from users.	2002-12-06
US	50226616	RTPAB3PJ7FDZ7	0596002734	520627480	Access Database Design & Programming (3rd Edition)	Books	2	32	37	N	N	disappointing	True to its title, this book has an excellent section on database design, particularly as it pertains to Microsoft Access.  However, I found it particularly frustrating when none of the code examples in the book worked with my databases.  When I read Balter's \\"Mastering Microsoft Access 2000 Develoment\\", also available at Amazon, I found out why.  DAO has been replaced by ADO.  This book covers DAO first, and mentions only later.  I spent five days trying to get DAO to work and failed.  I am so glad I had my other Access book to steer me straight.<br />The great introduction to relational databases is useful, but you could glean the same information from Hernandez's \\"Database Design for Mere Mortals\\" and it would apply to all DBMSes.<br />I hate to give an O'Reilly book a bad review, but this one didn't meet my expectations.  It is advertised to apply to Access versions 97-2002, but I don't think it is as up-to-date as some of the other books on the market.	2002-12-06
US	50226616	RVXGD84HFRWXV	0072224282	464857541	High Score! The Illustrated History of Electronic Games	Books	5	1	2	N	N	comprehensive and beautifully laid out	For anyone that has played games in the last 30 years, this book is sure to bring back memories.  Nostalgia and reminiscing will abound when you see old screenshots, game covers, and other game memorabilia reproduced in full-color.  It also reads well, with game company histories and the rise and fall of a variety of game systems.  Everything from pinball and Pong to Tomb Raider and Unreal is covered.  This is one of those books that you'll pick up to flip through, and then find yourself an hour late for wherever you had to get to.	2002-11-15
US	50226616	R3TUZKFYNAUIDK	0553801481	130881552	Fool's Errand (The Tawny Man, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	mature followup to her first trilogy	Fool's Errand begins a new trilogy from acclaimed fantasy novelist Robin Hobb. It is not required to read the previous trilogy, but it does make the experience richer. All important past events are mentioned a few times, so I kept up although I hadn't read the first series for several years now. There are great tie-ins with both her other trilogies, so if you have read her other books, you will really enjoy this one.<br />I wasn't able to relate as much to this older, more mature character as I was to the characters in the Liveship Traders trilogy. I suspect this is because I am a young female and this book's main character is a middle-aged, experienced man. However, this very reason may make the book appealing to older readers, as so many fantasy novels focus on a youthful hero.<br />Robin Hobb's matured writing style is reflected in the matured characters and broader range of human emotions. This is a complex book character-wise, although the story is easy to follow.<br />As with all of Hobb's series, this one starts slow, allowing us to know our main characters before thrusting them into the action. However, it is never dull as so many introductions can be. Words and events are used judiciously.<br />I liked the underlying premise of this particular book, which seemed to be that beasts can be more noble than humans. This is shown both in the character of Nighteyes, Tom's wolf companion, and his distaste for unnecessary killing, as well as in the villain's disregard for the well-being of animals. I cannot say much more without giving away the plot, which has many surprises. These surprises are well set up in the beginning of the book, without giving away what they are. That kind of foreshadowing takes talent.	2002-11-12
US	50226616	R3P7DB50XJSAQ0	0596001320	743185491	Learning Perl, Third Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	my favorite teaching book	Learning Perl is a great reference text, not just for learning.  Of course, if you already know Perl inside and out, you won't want this book.  However, if you are a beginner, you can use this book to teach yourself Perl and then keep using it after you are experienced.  The writing style is far from dry, and at times is downright witty.  The examples are short and sweet, no piling on of so much code that you forget what the example is supposed to show.<br />There are a few reasons why this book is always on my desk.  I code in several languages, so I often need a reminder of syntax.  Rather than open a thick reference book, I just go to one of Learning Perls dog-eared pages on the subject.  The authors seem to anticipate common questions that you might have asked if you were just reading a language definition.  You can easily carry with you this small, manageable book.<br />I use this book in conjunction with the Perl Cookbook, also by OReilly.	2002-11-12
US	50226616	R4I1Z5406RK6J	0375705171	330040046	Trans-Sister Radio	Books	4	5	5	N	N	highly readable &amp; well-researched	Trans-Sister Radio is the first book I've read of its kind.  It is the story of  Allie Banks, Vermont schoolteacher, and her lover Dana Stevens.  Dana as it turns out, is a male-to-female transsexual and this causes many issues for Allie internally and for her career.  The story is told from many perspectives - Allie, her daughter, Dana, and Allie's ex-husband Will.  Each chapter is interspersed with the text of an NPR piece.  It is so realistic that I sometimes forgot this was fiction.<br />The author did a great deal of research, obviously, and I felt he was very sensitive to the subject.  Although I couldn't sympathise with all of the character's feelings, both Carla &amp; Allie had thoughts &amp; feelings exactly like my own at times.  Of course, it was unfortunate that Allie was unable to deal with the physical reality of her lover's new body, but it shows that you can't change who you are inside.  Dana couldn't continue to live as a man any more than Allie could magically transform into a lesbian.<br />I would like to say this would be a great book to teach people about being transgendered or loving a transgendered person.  However, the surgery section - while realistic - might be a little much for some people.  It is the one chapter that will prevent me from giving this to my mother.<br />At times, the book felt a bit preachy, like a tutorial on transsexuals.  However, most of this information will be new to your average reader, and it's important to educate as well as entertain.  It is a far better introduction to the topic than one might get on daytime television.	2002-11-07
US	50226616	R3CIRGFYAGU5N9	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	the original Fight Club fills in the blanks.	I am a huge fan of the movie, so much so that after many of my viewings, I will get into long discussions about the motivations of the character, the intention of the film-maker, and the point of the film.  A friend recommended I read the book and get the author's viewpoints directly.<br />Reading the book may be a bit irritating if you have seen the movie many times, as the movie liberally used dialogue from the book.  However, many differences that make this book worth reading.<br />For one, Marla is a more prominent character.  While the movie portrays Marla as secondary - a distraction from the pursuits of manhood, she is a central figure in the book.  She is the reason why things happen.<br />Lines in the movie that may have seemed like non-sequiturs are given their due in the book.<br />The ending is far more appropriate, and I will not discuss it here.  I will say that I have seen both alternate endings to the film and I prefer the book's ending to all of them.	2002-10-29
US	50226616	R3F6T8QTKRI1DH	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	better than expected!	This book is not the sort of thing I normally read, but many people said the movie was more enjoyable for those who had read the book.  I normally steer away from mass-market paperbacks, particularly if they've been converted to movies.  I saw so many people reading this in public that I picked up my own copy at the supermarket.<br />The story picks up quickly, and I have always been a lover of a) stories about women b) stories about The South and c) mother/daughter stories.  This book covers all three, a mother-adult daughter relationship framing vignettes of the lives of four women - the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.  That the book reads so easily is not a flaw.  When a well-formed novel is written so clearly that anyone can understand it, it deserves to be a mass-market success.<br />The author excels in the telling of the details, as well as characterization.  Each character has her own voice, and by the end, you know each woman so well you could pick her out of a lineup.<br />Indeed, sisterhood was present in this book.  Each woman, distinctively portrayed, contributes to a warm friendship that is the envy of this Yankee.  The Divine Secrets of these womens lives reveal a rebellion against society, as well as a submission to, that makes for a fascinating read.<br />A certain level of suspense keeps this from being a book of distinct stories, as you want to learn what events caused Vivi and her daughter Sidda to be estranged.  The author slowly adds to the reader's knowledge, slipping in bits and pieces.  At the end, you have heard both sides of the story in full.  The book finishes with a valuable lesson about letting go of past hurts.	2002-10-29
US	50226616	R3005ZWP83AW44	0130471771	955090687	Core Java 2, Volume I: Fundamentals (6th Edition)	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	perfect	I am a somewhat experienced programmer and this book was the text for my graduate-level course on Java.  I also purchased some of the optional books, and this book is far and away the best purchase.<br />Sun publishes this book, so it contains the definitive information.  In fact, it goes into great detail without being boring or elementary.  The sample programs are quick and to the point.  I admire that the discussion of the programming language admits the language's flaws as well as its benefits.  The book also talks about how the language is really used, vs. how it was designed.<br />A particular feature of the book are sections where they explain how Java is different from C++.  This is very useful for a C++ programmer.	2002-10-02
US	50226616	RES8KFR9I9PZ4	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	best first books to a series and best first novel attempt	Wizard's First Rule is one of the best first books to a series, and it made a fan of me in 1995.  In 2002, I re-read the book after recommending it to a friend.  I have actually recommended this book and series to many, and I think very highly of Goodkind's storytelling.<br />A strong female lead and many other strong female characters are present in this book, and that's something I do look for in fantasy novels.  In fact, Goodkind treats many uncommon subjects well.  Elderly people, such as Zed &amp; Adie are portrayed with humor and humanity, and its refreshing to see an older couple portrayed in a similar fashion to any young couple.  His villains all have a proper motivation, and I appreciate that people are not painted in white and black.  I also like that his characters can make mistakes and learn from them.  The characters are very realistic, and sympathetic - that can be lacking in much high fantasy.  Goodkind also has a talent for creating suspense, and I can distinctly remember reading feverishly to make sure that my favorite hero and heroine got themselves out of the situation they were in.  The story has lots of surprises, and ties together all its loose ends very effectively.	2002-09-30
US	50226616	R2BASXUD4WZSWC	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	4	4	4	N	N	balanced and broad	I enjoyed this book because of the wide view of Islamic women it portrayed. From reports of the Taliban and books like \\"Princess Sultana's Daughters\\", we hear of very restrictive regimes where women are oppressed. Geraldine Brooks shows us that many women choose the veil, and that there are many different kinds of Islam.<br /><br />I also enjoyed the chapters on women in Islamic texts, and where the traditions evolved from.	2002-09-30
US	50226616	R1B4VGRPDVDSAX	0684837374	612083066	Home from Nowhere: Remaking Our Everyday World for the 21st Century	Books	3	28	36	N	Y	Resonates with me	I read Kunstler's work on New Urbanism because it resonates with me. I used to drive an hour each way through work through mind-rending traffic, and I lived in subdivision where I could only leave by car, although most destinations were within 1 mile.  I know the suburban sprawl of which Kunstler speaks, and it is refreshing to read a point of view that gels with my own experience.  I see some issues in what he writes about, particularly in that many solutions are feasible only for the well off, but much of it strikes me as true.  It may be polemic - although Home from Nowhere is packed with facts compared to Geography of Nowhere - but this polemic speaks to me at times.<br />Home from Nowhere has several chapters with tangible plans for civic improvement, including both urban renewal and `greenfield' development.  Concrete examples are given to demonstrate the principles of New Urbanism, as well as examples where New Urbanism failed to make an impact.<br />Sections of the book seem like a rebuttal to responses to Geography of Nowhere.  He mentions that he has traveled more and acquired an education in architectural principles, and his facts and research do make the book more worthwhile.  If you have already read Geography of Nowhere, this book can fill in some of the gaps between the rhetoric.<br />The last several chapters began to drag.  First, the reader spends some time in Florida with a like-minded developer.  Then there is the scathing chapter on local politics in upstate New York.  Finally, an interesting chapter on organic farming seems tacked on without connection to the rest of the text.  Most amusing of all was the autobiographical segment, where we learn the author was teased in his inner-city high school.  One might draw the conclusion that the author's early experiences formed many of his opinions.  While I am sure that was the intent of this chapter, I doubt he intended some of the conclusions I drew from his early life.<br />I might mention some of the stereotyping that may offend readers of this book, and in fact, may lead me to write a letter to Mr. Kunstler.  I will mention a few incidents.  In one chapter on Memphis, Kunstler painstakingly reproduces the southerner's dialect, although he does this for no one else.  In another chapter, he discusses muggings in NYC, and describes a typical mugger wearing hip-hop fashions.  He apologizes in advance and then continues to discuss the problems of the inner-city poor.  He mentions WASPs and all the evils they proliferate in passing.  Finally, I was most shocked by his stereotyping of women.  He writes: \\"An unmarried schoolteacher could not afford to live near the schoolchildren she taught, not to mention the cleaning lady.\\"  Apparently the author associates teaching and cleaning with women - their traditional roles.  He should take more care in his use of gender pronouns.<br />If you took the good parts of Geography of Nowhere and the good parts of this book (particularly the first few chapters, which were very fact-filled), you would have an excellent book on the principles of New Urbanism.  The writing style can be very appealing.  However, this book is not perfect.e of the stereotyping that may offend readers of this book, and in fact, may lead me to write a letter to Mr. Kunstler.  I will mention a few incidents.  In one chapter on Memphis, Kunstler painstakingly reproduces the southerner's dialect, although he does this for no one else.  In another chapter, he discusses muggings in NYC, and describes a typical mugger wearing hip-hop fashions.  He apologizes in advance and then continues to discuss the problems of the inner-city poor.  He mentions WASPs and all the evils they proliferate in passing.  Finally, I was most shocked by his stereotyping of women.   He writes: \\"An unmarried schoolteacher could not afford to live near the schoolchildren she taught, not to mention the cleaning lady.\\"  Apparently the author associates teaching and cleaning with women - their traditional roles.  He should take more care in his use of gender pronouns.<br />If you took the good parts of Geography of Nowhere and the good parts of this book (particularly the first few chapters, which were very fact-filled), you would have an excellent book on the principles of New Urbanism.  The writing style can be very appealing.  However, this book is not perfect.	2002-09-30
US	50226616	RQQXAE7A00JBN	0553575651	331407913	Ship of Destiny (The Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	masterful closing to an engaging trilogy.	First a bit about the series that this book is the final volume in.  I am a huge fan of Robin Hobb, and it was this series that started me in reading all of her books.  I just completed the entire Liveship Traders series for the second time.  You could read it over and over again, wanting to be with these characters for longer.  It says something that I own the second and third volume in hardcover, because I had to rush out and buy the next installment.<br />Robin Hobb incorporates a vivid level of detail about the world, and Ship of Destiny ties together all the threads that a reader of the series has been wondering about.  The peoples of this world are molded by their environment, and Hobb has clearly planned a long history for this world.  The amount of time that must have gone into the creation of the world really pays off in the readability of the books.<br />Her characters are so much like live humans.  I could relate to Malta from my years as a teenage girl, to Althea, and to all of the other characters.  The same rebellions any teen has with the authorities are reflected in this fantasy novel.<br />The quality that makes this one of the best trilogy-enders I've read is that all the characters have their ends tied up, have changed in some way, and all my questions were answered.  It is very rare for a writer to be able to tie everything together and create a satisfying ending for an involved story like this.	2002-09-05
US	50226616	R3E4RP43ETHD39	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Don't eat during breakfast!	You'll be very careful about what you eat after reading Fast Food Nation.  Not only does it have drastic effects on the world's health, but Fast Food impacts all sorts of other things -the environment, children's education, worker's unions, and the minimum wage.  You'll learn about the unsafe conditions in the meat factories and the prevalance of e coli.  You'll learn about how fast food chains have infiltrated our schools and foreign countries, and about the obesity epidemic in the US.<br />Reading this book changed my mind about unions.  While formerly I had believed they were bad for society, I now see why there is a need.  Eric spends quite some time discussing the plight of the transient workers who process and serve our hamburgers.<br />Better treatment of workers and animals would produce healthier meat and a healthier society, and Eric Schlosser always shows an alternative.  From the pizza franchise that gives college scholarships to its workers to the beef farm that allows its cows to roam free, there is a good example to counter every sad story.<br />Still, the majority of fast food practices harm us.  This book will tell you how they harm us and even suggest ways that each of us can make a change.  It is pointed out that these multi-national franchise have and will continue to change to please their customer base.  This is one of the few social issue books that makes the reader feel empowered.	2002-09-05
US	50226616	R2MDN01TGKRQKO	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	3	0	0	N	N	it's pretty good	A fair effort from a new writer.  First, I'll tell you what I didn't enjoy - a plot/world that wasn't all that fresh and an ending that spiraled out of control.  I thought the world and plot were stock fantasy and not all that original.  The ending became suddenly metaphysical when most of the book stayed firmly in the realm of reality.<br />I enjoyed the equality of men and women portrayed in this book, as well as the 'can-do' attitude exhibited by the heroine.  The book is also a safe read for pre-teens with no inappropriate sexual asides.<br />I also appreciated that the book began and ended within a single volume.  Most fantasy writers would try to stretch this epic across a number of books.	2002-07-23
US	50226616	R1567PFP3M5ENH	0886779065	874990469	Mountain of Black Glass (Otherland, Volume 3)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	get to the point already	This series grows tiresome in volume III, and more and more, it seems to be Tad Williams' way of writing about every single setting imaginable.  Look, we're in an another alternate universe!  These books have always wandered, but this one seems to have no point whatsoever.  The first book was great, an interesting cyberpunk novel by a well-known fantasy novel.  Books 2 and 3 are virtually the same novel, an endless journey through Otherland with little plot development.<br />When I saw there is now a IV volume, I decided to stop bothering.  Science Fiction greats could tell a tale in a single novel, or even in a short story.  No reader should have to put up with this &quot;NeverEnding Story&quot;.	2002-07-05
US	50226616	RWREJOF0TP6OP	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	5	11	12	N	N	now I'm hooked.	I read this on my flight to Turkey, as I experienced my first entry into a truly foreign country.  Although I didn't take the risk of travelling outside of the &quot;bubble&quot; that Kaplan talks about, sections of this book definitely pertained to my trip.  It altered the way I perceived the world around me.  Instead of seeing some Istanbul neighborhoods as helplessly impoverished, I looked for signs of the middle-class ambition that Kaplan spoke of.  I also realized that my standards of living are not available to most of the world, and The Ends of the Earth was a good introduction to this concept.<br />I find particularly interesting the political context in Kaplan's travel writing.  Not only do you get the direct visceral experience of travelling through so-called &quot;third world&quot; countries, but you get the political history.  My friend said that the book itself is a journey through thought as it is a journey through countries.  There is no final answer to why certain cultures develop in one way and others develop in other ways - but you'll certainly appreciate the process as Kaplan visits developing nations across the world and attempts to analyze the past's impact on the present.<br />This book is highly readable.  You simply do not get bored, and I can't think of another non-fiction book that I didn't want to put down at some point.	2002-07-05
US	50226616	R1CH7YSRX603OA	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	not the best of the series	Goodkind spins the same tale as always, and I am getting bored of Richard and Kahlan.  However, Goodkind's grasp of suspense kept me reading until the end.<br />I like Goodkind's use of the Old World politics and the way that it reflects on governments of our world.  It made me think about social policy, and especially the merits/demerits of extreme socialism.	2002-06-17
US	50226616	R3S6072VN1YEKK	0765300265	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	such an refreshing addition to the series!	Terry Goodkind's writing has always been excellent, but I think we all tired of the good Kahlan and Richard's exploits.  Now, with new characters, he injects new life into the series.  Jennsen is a very likable girl with some misguided ideas - you are rooting for her all the way while at the same time hoping she learns the truth.  Oba is disgustingly evil, but Goodkind provides childhood reasons for it.<br />When I ended this book, I found myself wondering when the next one would be out.  Again.  This is after buying Pillars of Creation almost out of duty and thinking I wouldn't enjoy it.  Just like Jennsen, I learned the error of my thinking.	2002-06-17
US	50226616	R26K8YKXCC6SOS	0385425473	378897199	Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a good learning experience	What distinguishes this book from other books of Chinese women (Amy Tan, Maxine Hong Kingston) is that it takes place during the post-war era.  The story of the grandmother will be familiar to Tan and Kingston readers, but this is where similarities end.  The book mostly focuses on the rise of communism in China, from its idealistic beginnings until the author leaves China in the seventies.<br />The book is split into three parts.  The grandmother was a concubine to a warlord and later marries a kind older doctor.  The mother joins the communist party, and marries a communist official.  The daughter struggles between dedication to Mao and her own ideals.  Most of the book focuses on the life of author, the daughter in the story.<br />What I took out of this book was a greater understanding of communism, why it appealed to the people of China, and how communism can be twisted into something far less ideal.	2002-06-04
US	50226616	R1XLXCRZOBXVKV	0441007023	632655694	Sword, Ring, and Chalice: The Sword	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	a nice escape for a fantasy lover	When you're in the mood for some traditional fantasy, pick up Deborah Chester's \\"The Sword\\".  I have just finished the first book in the trilogy, and enjoyed it thoroughly.  Although the story sticks to some of the most basic tenets of fantastic literature - orphan boy of royalty, teeming undead forces, and spoiled prince - it manages to make these themes interesting again.	2002-05-30
US	50226616	RJG7FWQ5DEQ55	0345435265	37195968	The Wolf King	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	good supernatural story dissolves into disjointed politics	The Wolf King is the final book of a three-book series on lupine shapechangers.  Silver Wolf was a worthy entry to the series, and while readers get to see Regeane again in the Wolf King, this final book is not of the first one's quality.  The story becomes somewhat disjointed, and one can easily lose track of all the characters and how they tie into the plot.  It's entertaining, to be sure, and worth it if you have enjoyed the rest of the series.<br />I found the ending most disconcerting.  I wasn't sure when the climax was going to come, but the ending seems to have come either long before or longer after.  It feels unresolved, but if I think back, the best part of the book revolved around the mysterious character of the Bear and the reappearance of Regeane's half-brother Hugo.  This riveting story was completed some time before the final chapters.	2002-03-31
US	50226616	R165GKXZLV5WTZ	068484480X	727460693	Orphans of the Living: Stories of America's Children in Foster Care	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	good, unbiased, study of the foster care system	Orphans of the Living starts out with a bang, but drags to an end.  The initial story of the two orphanages in a small southern town educates the reader on the foster care system and children's homes as they function today.  It is much different than Annie or the Cider House Rules.  I was riveted to the way different children reacted to being separated from their parents, and how they dealt with the typical sexual and physical abuse present in their lives.  It even helped me understand the behaviour of certain disadvantaged children in my personal history.  Unfortunately, much of it was all too familiar to me from children I knew growing up.<br />Perhaps it's a liberal cliche, but it's important to understand the criminal.  Many of the foster children were involved in criminal behaviour, but much of the time, it was almost not of their own will.  One child does not understand why it was wrong for him to rape another child, because it was the way that 'love' was shown to him in his formative years.  Orphans of the Living covers this topic particularly well in the first section.<br />Orphans of the Living does a particularly good job of showing all types, a wide variety, of foster children.  White or black, from good family or from none.  Whatever your mental stereotype, it will be challenged.  I also liked the way she did not specify race unless necessary, which allows us to escape our own biases as we read.<br />I only gave it 3 stars because it wasn't as interesting as her previous book - The Mole People.  Some chapters are inordinately long.  Luckily, none of the sections rely on one another, so if one child's story simply bores you, you can safely skip it and read the next.  However, The Mole People was never boring, so I had to take some marks from Orphans of the Living.  It also hasn't become a topic of constant conversation like other books I've read lately.  Still, I would recommend it to anyone interested in this area of study.	2002-03-04
US	50226616	RB1KDYFB32RRB	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	5	106	115	N	N	revolutionary	Geography of Nowhere is a wonderful, life-changing book.  I wish I could make every developer, every SUV owner and every town council read this book.  Its main topic is the physical environments that Americans live in, in contrast to our historical environments and to overseas.  Kunstler shows how the advent of the automobile has changed the face of cities, small-towns and birthed the suburb.  The choice to live without an automobile is now a very difficult one for most people, and also comes with certain social assumptions.  Yet, after reading Geography of Nowhere, I am seeking ever more ways to take public transportation and reduce my reliance on a vehicle that both pollutes the natural environment and despoils the man-made environment.<br />Some chapters in the book focus on cities gone wrong, such as Detroit.  Others discuss the ideal community, involving mixed-use neighborhoods (both purpose - commercial, residential, industrial - and class - working, professional, wealthy).  Kunstler makes the case that prior to the development of suburbia and the reign of automobiles as our primary form of transportation, we had a kinder, cleaner, and happier world.  Disney World's Main Street was used as an example of how car-free neighborhoods have become an American dream, and at the same time, few people understand why cars have had such a negative effect.<br />Geography of Nowhere has confirmed my choice to live in a city with public transportation, in a mixed-use neighborhood, within walking distance of most of my needs.  It may be more expensive and it may be unconventional, but  I now have the evidence to back up my convictions.	2002-03-04
US	50226616	R17CNZ6W4W73Y2	0345443993	269057755	The Dragon Queen (Tales of Guinevere, Book 1)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Best Guenivere Ever!	There are two flaws in this wonderful book, and I will discuss them first.  One, it does not stand alone and is obviously meant to be followed up by sequels.  Thus, the ending is not entirely satisfying.  It is comforting to know that more books will follow.<br />About halfway through the book, the plot begins to wander, switching locations quickly.  Because of the fantastical landscape, this can be confusing for a reader who was just newly introduced to this world.  Once you get through this section, the book becomes a pleasure to read once again.<br />I really enjoyed the grittiness of the world and I felt that the historical facts were well-represented here.  I love how Borchardt takes atypical perspectives in history, such as having Guenivere raised in the poorer North of Britain.<br />This Guenivere is without a doubt the strongest Guenivere you can encounter.  Step aside, other Gueniveres.  This Guenivere is gonna bodyslam you!  She's impressively intelligent and resourceful.  However, the other women are not downplayed.  Kyra and Morgana are equally interesting and capable women.  Even Igraine, portrayed as an self-serving sorceress, has a strong role.  Borchardt doesn't neglect the men either.  I would say that this book has a fair treatment of both men and women, when so many books in this genre will tend to sanctify one sex and villify the other (on both sides).<br />I am really looking forward to the next installment of the series.  Even with the gritty realistic feel, there is plenty of magic and mystery to keep any fantasy-reader entertained.	2002-01-24
US	50226616	R255PQYE54ENO5	0375503315	838011633	Brothel: Mustang Ranch and Its Women	Books	5	19	24	N	N	thoughtful and sensitive study	This is an excellent book in a documentary style about the Mustang Ranch in Nevada and legal prostitution.  While most of the book covers the sex workers, there is also a chapter on their customer's perspectives.  It offers a very interesting view into legal prostitution.  It also talks about whether sex is a right, and sex as therapy.  I think it fairly portrays both the good and the bad sides of this profession.<br />This book argues for legal prostitution, and I think that most objective people will be convinced by the ample evidence that is offered.  At the same time, legality doesn't make it any more fun, nor does it remove the social stigma of prostitution.<br />The topic is fascinating, but so is the writing.  I finished this book in a single evening, reading it from cover to cover.	2002-01-10
US	50226616	R2LTHDG24OQNEB	0451456521	221787283	Lady of Avalon (Avalon, Book 3)	Books	2	22	24	N	N	a disappointing rehash of historical romance themes	The book contains three loosely connected novellas, loosely connected in that each character is the incarnation of a previous character.  It provides background story to the classic Mists of Avalon.<br />Either Bradley's writing has suffered, or my tastes have matured since Mists and The Forest House.  Without a doubt, Mists of Avalon is a classic.  Lady of Avalon compares rather poorly with it.  The character's stories become triter with each incarnation, so much so that I felt as though I had read it before.  The events of the story were entirely predictable if you read anything else in this genre.  It seemed like it was intended to be a manual for novitiates of the mysteries, rather than an entertaining book.  One almost felt like one was being preached to about the religion.  By comparison, Mists presented the religion of Avalon without making it feel like a textbook in pagan theology.  You are never given enough time to become attached to the characters, and after a while, they all seem the same (even if they *are* reincarnations).<br />In short, it is boring.  The first novella is good.  The last one survives on the virtue that it tells the story of Viviane.  I would not recommend it even to Bradley fans, however.	2002-01-09
US	50226616	R3OU8N6CN2N4R	0764565176	265070623	Weight Watchers Make It in Minutes: Easy Recipes in 15, 20, and 30 Minutes	Books	3	88	99	N	N	a little too gourmet for me	True to its title, this Weight Watchers cookbooks has easy recipes for breakfast, lunch and dinner.  I was happy about the inclusion of multiple meals.  I also liked the listing of point values.<br />My only problem with the book were the fancy foods.  I'm not an amazing cook.  When I hear &quot;make it in minutes&quot;, I'm hoping for something like my Betty Crocker &quot;Easy&quot; recipes, where I can use pre-bought ingredients and throw it together.  I also want to see familiar recipes.  There are a lot of different and unique recipes here, and I'm sure that most people would enjoy them.  However, I was looking for a basic cookbook that would allow me to make simple meals with ingredients I am familiar with.  I'm sure this book will be great for experimenting and trying new foods, only that's not what I expected.	2002-01-09
US	50226616	R3JL6YXJPUWDTD	155652241X	909665314	The Mole People: Life in the Tunnels Beneath New York City	Books	5	157	168	N	N	intriguing cross-section  of tunnel life	My birthday gift was &quot;The Mole People - Life in the Tunnels beneath New York City.&quot; Both subterranean landscapes and alternative societies have always fascinated me, and this book contains both. New York City has some of the largest and most inhabited underground spaces of any city in the United States, and the homeless population is more visible there than some other cities.  The book changed how I thought about the homeless. I avoided contact with them because they can be unpredictable.  I pretended I didn't see them, thinking soup kitchens and shelters would help them.  Although the book reinforces that homelessness is often a choice, it taught me that the homeless are not much different from me.<br />It's amazing how much space there is belowground. So many abandoned tunnels for trains, gas lines, and water.  One can still wire electricity, and some abandoned subway stations still have working bathrooms. Cubbies built to house maintenance workers now house the homeless. One community got water from a broken pipe where they showered and washed their clothes. Another even had a microwave. One wonders if any of them have Internet access.<br />I found it  interesting that many tunnel-dwellers did not want to return to the surface, or to a normal life. They are the ultimate outsiders, and they have idealist views  of their own lifestyle, while believing the surface is not for them.  They are invisible, outcasts, on the surface world.  Life is not better there.  Underground they have a family and a purpose. Men who couldn't find work and provide for the family on the surface world can be productive members of &quot;society&quot; beneath the ground. It amazed me how much they helped one another, forming communities where each person had their role. Of course, there were the loners and the drug addicts and the alcoholics, but others went down for ideological reasons.<br />Close to the surface, many people still held normal jobs above ground, and one child still attended school. With rents so high, people resort to this - you can't work minimum wage and have an apartment in Manhattan.  Close to the surface, there is less community and more of a transient population. The police have a higher presence, an outreach program that sometimes helps and sometimes hinders the homeless. Many inhabitants report being beaten by the officers, while the officers say that they endanger themselves daily trying to help these people.<br />So often, the inhabitants would say that they believed life was better for them underground. One self-styled mayor told Jennifer that undergrounders were superior people to whom the human spirit was more valuable than material comforts.  The leaders of these communities were usually quite educated, sometimes with degrees. This particular man had a library that he had brought down over the years. A schoolteacher and a nurse lived in his community, both trained in the aboveground world, but choosing to live and work belowground.  Appointed runners fetched supplies from the surface.<br />Another common phrase is &quot;these people need me. I'm needed down here.&quot; In the anonymous surface world, many people are not successful and end up alone and nameless. Below, they can be someone. In some ways, it is a utopia. Free from a society where they don't fit in, they no longer pay taxes or follow rules and they can live a more authentic life, where survival is a day-to day struggle, but they can feel as if they are really contributing.<br />Most of the interviewees were living under ground actively. I wonder if those who have left tell a different story.  An exotic dancer often has an idealized view of her role, but after she has left the profession, her opinions are more jaded.  Maybe people idealize their own lives,in order to mentally survive hardship. Yet, I was impressed by their ethics. As an atheist myself, I too believe we must find our moral compass on the inside. The more idealistic communities talkedabout the &quot;human<br />morality&quot; and &quot;human religion&quot;, ethics like honesty and compassion. Without rules and laws, these people generally act out of their own hearts to care for their neighbors. They care for people that most of us would turn away from in disgust - crack addicts, AIDS-infected people, and the mentally unstable.<br />Of course, there are crazy and drug-addled people. The writer encountered one man called the Dark Angel that everyone, from the police to the tunnel-dwellers feared. He lived alone in the tunnel, and few would come near him. He believed that he was evil's incarnation on earth. There are bands of roving teenagers, and gang-members who plan their assassinations and<br />drug deals beneath the ground. It's a haven for those who do not want to be seen, some of whom are bad people.  Rarely was the writer without a guide for her own safety.<br />Even ensconced in the surface world of professional jobs and rat-free air-conditioned apartments, we can see why these people chose to leave all that for a life underground, without laws and structure.  They survive better than one would expect. It allows people to start over, or even to start for the first time. For some people, it is the best option they have, and reading about the rapes and thefts at surface-world shelters, one understands why they would flee to deeper and deeper bowels of the earth.<br />Jennifer Toth did a brave thing, and her compassion and courage impressed me.  She entered their world, nearly unbiased, and she kept in touch with her subjects. Her book, though scholarly, is not the least bit boring. She writes with a personal style and a first-person perspective, and her landscapes are hard to forget. She communicates that the mole people are more human than their name implies, sometimes more human than those of us<br />above.ed about the &quot;human <BR>morality&quot; and &quot;human religion&quot;, ethics like honesty and compassion. Without rules and laws, these people generally act out of their own hearts to care for their neighbors. They care for people that most of us would turn away from in disgust - crack addicts, AIDS-infected people, and the mentally unstable.<br />Of course, there are crazy and drug-addled people. The writer encountered one man called the Dark Angel that everyone, from the police to the tunnel-dwellers feared. He lived alone in the tunnel, and few would come near him. He believed that he was evil's incarnation on earth. There are bands of roving teenagers, and gang-members who plan their assassinations and <BR>drug deals beneath the ground. It's a haven for those who do not want to be seen, some of whom are bad people.  Rarely was the writer without a guide for her own safety.<br />Even ensconced in the surface world of professional jobs and rat-free air-conditioned apartments, we can see why these people chose to leave all that for a life underground, without laws and structure.  They survive better than one would expect. It allows people to start over, or even to start for the first time. For some people, it is the best option they have, and reading about the rapes and thefts at surface-world shelters, one understands why they would flee to deeper and deeper bowels of the earth.<br />Jennifer Toth did a brave thing, and her compassion and courage impressed me.  She entered their world, nearly unbiased, and she kept in touch with her subjects. Her book, though scholarly, is not the least bit boring. She writes with a personal style and a first-person perspective, and her landscapes are hard to forget. She communicates that the mole people are more human than their name implies, sometimes more human than those of us <BR>above.	2002-01-04
US	50226616	R3FFRXVADXM6YT	0141301163	996901595	Zel	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	disturbing, different - these words describe the book Zel	Zel is a retelling of the Rapunzel story.  It shows the story from three alternating perspectives, a spoiled young prince, an enthusiastic peasant girl - Zel, and her aging foster-mother.  Unlike the original story, we are brought to understand why the foster-mother keeps her captive in the tower - it is to keep her ever a child, and to save her from men.  It is all mother's impulses taken to an extreme.  Zel's ensuing madness acquired in captivity is disturbing, yet realistic for this fairytale situation.  The mother-daughter relationship is something most women will be able to relate to, particularly the struggles for independence of young womanhood.  In particular, I could recall my own desire for a boyfriend, my mother's protective urges that forbade me from dating.<br />While the book is written for a teen audience, I found some of the subject matter rather mature.	2001-12-31
US	50226616	RXK7AS6B47A9F	096291620X	398515910	Getting in Touch with Your Inner Bitch	Books	4	24	25	N	N	I don't think so! has become my mantra.	This book was enormously funny.  It is more of a humor book than a self-help book, although much of the advice could be taken seriously.  I commend the idea that women should ask for what they want, and say &quot;I don't think so&quot; when they aren't being treated right.<br />I read this right after my engagement broke off.  It had the immense effect of cheering me up and made me look forward to the life ahead of me.	2001-12-20
US	50226616	R1AUZHHOZTTMM9	0312263287	798973869	Girls on the Verge: Debutante Dips, Drive-bys, and Other Initiations	Books	4	2	4	N	N	funny *and* educational	I love a good read about womanhood in America, and I got this one off the discount rack at (a local store).  I read it to my friend on a road trip, and we both found it incredibly interesting.  Unlike some feminist-oriented books, there was little that a man could take offense at - and in fact, my male driving partner enjoyed it.  We both still make reference to lines from this book.<br />The most amusing chapter was on sororities.  The author was actually able to infiltrate the greek system and experience rush the way a first-year would.  As my college had no greeks, I was both amused and horrified at the rush system.  The chapters on debutantes and quinceaneros were more academic in nature, because she couldn't participate undercover.  Another great chapter covered girl gangs.  As I've always seen a similarity between girl gangs and sororities, I loved contrasting the two chapters.<br />This book spawned many interesting discussions with my co-reader, and I recommend it to reading groups.	2001-12-05
US	50226616	R1YZP51MEU6SV4	0345423631	308559103	Night of the Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 2)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	quite a good followup	At first, the Night of the Wolf didn't grab me in the same was as her previous book - The Silver Wolf.  This could be because, like others, I was disappointed at the absence of Regeane.  But Maeniel's tale soon caught me up in its intricacies.  I was fascinated by the lush descriptions of Caesarian Rome.  I even ended up dreaming about the book and its characters.<br />The book takes the reader to many settings and involves many characters, but I did not find it confusing in the least.	2001-12-05
US	50226616	RVDCY6CA3JETE	0345423615	279350331	The Silver Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	wow, an incredible book	Anne Rice's sister, Alice Borchardt, has surpassed her.  This book is excellently written.  Set in dark ages Rome, the story is about a young woman that has the strange quirk of turning wolf.  She is treated poorly and kept nearly-captive by her stepfather and brothers.  They live in squalor despite the fact that they have some small claim to nobility.  The story then focuses on her escape from her family, her reunion with her true father, and Roman politics.<br />This is a riveting start to a great series, and is the best of the three.  The author capably makes the reader sympathetic with Regeane.  This story is exciting and romantic.  Despite its focus on werewolves, it is not a horror story.  This is a very sympathetic series to wolves and werewolves.  These days, most schoolchildren know that wolves are not inherently dangerous and evil creatures, and Borchardt's werewolves reflect this century's enlightened point of view.  She surely must have watched many hours of The Nature Channel, because her descriptions of wolves are right-on.<br />I bought this off the shelf at a bookstore, and it did not disappoint me as so many other whim book purchases have.  In fact, I have become a fan of Alice's writing and intend to read everything she puts out.	2001-12-05
US	50226616	R18EW98NVQHAJZ	0553581279	51302526	The Silver Metal Lover	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	an excellent take on the future of artificial intelligence	It can be hard to identify with Jane, the spoiled teen heroine.  However, Silver Metal Lover is well worth the read to explore this world of robotic humans.  It is a future-vision only slightly brighter than A.I.  It is certainly an interesting question that we will eventually face when artificial intelligence can make robots as realistic as ourselves, and Jane has to wonder if Silver truly loves her or not - and does it matter?<br />I did find the book dragged at the beginning and the end, and I'm not sure I enjoyed it as thoroughly as some of Lee's other work.  I suspect it was aimed at a teen audience.	2001-12-05
US	50226616	R3MCBGKDAY3LFL	0345423631	308559103	Night of the Wolf (Legends of the Wolves, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	quite a good followup	At first, the Night of the Wolf didn't grab me in the same was as her previous book - The Silver Wolf.  This could be because, like others, I was disappointed at the absence of Regeane.  But Maeniel's tale soon caught me up in its intricacies.  I was fascinated by the lush descriptions of Caesarian Rome.  I even ended up dreaming about the book and its characters.  <br />The book takes the reader to many settings and involves many characters, but I did not find it confusing in the least.	2001-12-05
US	50226616	R3UPJWFLIWWTN3	0764551183	602309363	Quilting For Dummies? (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	4	67	69	N	Y	good start	This is a pretty good beginner's guide to quilting.  I am a complete beginner and bought 3 books, including this one.  I like the projects in this book best.  Many are small.  As a beginner, I would prefer to try to do a number of small, varied projects than work on one large project.  Also, while another book focused on creating different squares, this one gave me a better idea on how to complete a full project.<br />It's also pretty entertaining to read.	2001-11-29
US	50226616	R1IPHVBVY71TEJ	0786915889	208021139	The Dark Elf Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Homeland / Exile / Sojourn)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This trilogy stands the test of time.	Perhaps it is just my personal fascination with drow society, but I think this is the best of the many trilogies Salvatore has penned.  He goes into great and fascinating detail on life in the Underdark, but you never become bored with the exposition.  It is cleverly tied in with the lifestory of Drizzt Do'Urden, a hero that one quickly becomes extremely sympathetic with.<br />The character of Drizzt is appealing for a number of reasons.  Many people will relate to him because Drizzt does not fit into his society.  But this is because his innate goodness goes against the nature of most drow.  The first book details his upbringing as a noble in Menzoberranzan, where he excels at fighting, but fails to understand the cruel nature of the world around him.  In the second book, he is forced to leave the city and ranges the Underdark, finding some friends along the way.  Finally, on the surface world, he is outcast as well - because of racial stereotyping.<br />I would actually recommend that people read this volume first, before Salvatore's first series (&quot;The Crystal Shard&quot;, &quot;Streams of Silver&quot;, etc).  It is a great prequel to that series, and I personally think it's superior storytelling.  Not that all of Salvatore's work isn't exciting, riveting stuff - this is just the best.<br />I read these books when I was 17, and I thought they were fantastic.  It is now 8 years later, and I still enjoyed them.  One great thing about this package is that you can sit down and read it cover-to-cover without carrying around 3 books.  I had originally bought this set in order to have a complete copy for my future children, but decided to refresh my memory.  It was delightful, and inside of a week, reading every night, at lunch, and at the breakfast table, I had finished the trilogy.  It was so good that I didn't want to do anything else.	2001-10-19
US	50226616	R1N2YMUUMHTE84	0609806505	148189446	Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country (Guenevere Novels)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	very different take on the Arthurian legend	But I still didn't like it.  The book is very readable, but I was unhappy with this retelling.  This retelling just wouldn't stop beating me over the head with how the world would be better if women ruled over men and everyone worshipped The Goddess.  Paxson and Bradley also wrote feminist pro-pagan versions of the Arthurian mythos, but their books had a more balanced point of view.  I prefer Paxson's more neutral account, with balanced perspectives on men/women, christian/pagan, and saxon/briton over Miles' extreme agenda.<br />One issue I had was her treatment of men.  Rosalind Miles' usually portrays men as being base creatures, and women as good. Arthur is a child of rape in Miles' book, because Uther rapes Igraine. And of course, King Lot is an evil person who, naturally being male (if you follow Miles' logic) wants to rape and abuse women.  There are few males in the book that are treated sympathetically.<br />In Miles' earth religion, the goddess is supreme above all, with the god being a mere footnote. Rosalind equates men with christianity and women with paganism. There are pagan men, but for the most part, she portrays men taking the part of Christianity in order to have power over women. In Miles', the grail is a coveted object that the Christians plot to steal and make their own. To compare to Paxson, the grail is all things to all people, both pagans and christians see the beauty in it.  Paxson's characters find spirituality in the union between men and women as Gods and Goddesses incarnate.  Miles portrays Arthur as weak, ineffectual, and limp - similarly, her male Gods are nigh-invisible.<br />Particularly, her treatment of Merlin is unusual.  Most Arthurian retellings show him as good or neutral.  Miles' Merlin is somewhat ambigious, but mostly misguided and being male, wants to give all the power to men. Instead of sacrificing himself, he is locked up by the ladies of the lake.<br />In general, I disliked her treatment of the characters and her views about women (I too am a feminist, but I believe in equality and that men are as good or evil as women).  If you can get past her biases, the book is a good read.  I, however, do not think I could take the propaganda again, so I will not be reading the followup novels.iews about women (I too am a feminist, but I believe in equality and that men are as good or evil as women).  If you can get past her biases, the book is a good read.  I, however, do not think I could take the propaganda again, so I will not be reading the followup novels.	2001-10-19
US	50226616	R24E2GQPEXQ94Y	0380819023	656753993	The Gambler's Fortune: The Third Tale of Einarinn (The Tales of Einarinn)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	and they just keep getting better	I just finished this book, which I devoured very quickly, since all of Juliet McKenna's books cannot be put down.<br />The story now returns to Livak, the spunky female thief from the first book in the series.  The Livak-Ryshad romance is put by the wayside, as they go their separate ways.  One can only hope that we will see their relationship to fruition in future books.<br />Livak is again on a quest to find out more about aetheric magic, the new magic that we have been learning about since the very first book.  The hope is that they will be able to use the magic against the Elietimm threat.  However, Livak's simple goal is to make enough cash on this job so that she can settle down with Ryshad.  I've always praised this series' character goals, which always seem realistic, not always altruistic.  Some charming new characters are introduced - Sorgren and Sorgrad.  In addition, there are some new &quot;villains&quot; on the scene.  As usual, they are fleshed out so that we understand their motivations and we can almost sympathise with them.<br />The third book doesn't seem to conclude the story, although all of McKenna's books feel complete at the end.  And so far, the characters and stories are staying fresh - something I cannot say of other writers who continue with the same characters and world for several books.<br />As usual, I am eagerly awaiting the next one.  You may enjoy this book and series if you have enjoyed the work of Terry Goodkind or Robin Hobb.	2001-08-21
US	50226616	RBCQHCIJ7CNB0	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	3	4	6	N	N	great girl hero, but first few chapters drag	Unfortunately, Robin McKinley's The Blue Sword takes some time to pique your interest.  This is why I gave it only 3 stars.  The initial setting has the feel of the Victorian English settlers in India or Africa.  The first few chapters go by slowly, and you may wish to put it down.  Don't.  The friend who recommended this assured me that the story would grow more interesting very shortly, and it did.  More detail than that would give away the story.<br />McKinley's female role models are her strong point, and the main character is no exception.  She is not portrayed as particularly beautiful, the book prefers to focus on her quick learning and athletic ability.  Also, there are numerous male/female relationships that are *not* love relationships.  The one love relationship is rather untraditional - between an older man and the young girl, but it is kept rather chaste so that the book is appropriate for young readers.	2001-08-21
US	50226616	R13GJFPS8O4XVO	0061020370	85444315	The Swordsman's Oath: The Second Tale of Einarinn (The Tales of Einarinn)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a great followup	This is a fantastic sequel that doesn't let down the audience from the first book.  The story is even more interesting, as it switches from the past to the present.  I don't want to give too many details here, but the new developments are really interesting.<br />As usual, once you start reading, you'll find it hard to stop.  The pace quickens at a tolerable level, to a point near the end where you will find yourself reading late into the night, or forgetting that your lunch hour is only an hour.<br />The characters are as rooted in reality as always.  McKenna does an excellent job writing from the point of view of a man as she did for Livak.  This book is written from Ryshad's perspective, though Livak does appear in the book as well.<br />If you're tired of the fantasy genre, you'll probably still enjoy this book.  The characters aren't necessarily heroic.  Like most of us, they have reasons for what they do - even the villains.  The best thing about McKenna's writing is the reality she infuses into the characters - the way they swear, have sex, joke, and love one another.  It feels like real life, and it truly reflects the 'commoner' status that her characters have.  Unlike most fantasy novels, these are not princes and princesses, or noble knights.  She writes about a maidservant turned expert gambler, a craftsmen's son that signs up in the service of a lord.	2001-08-10
US	50226616	R1TBUZQG1AHPPH	0441008658	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	4	0	1	N	N	an okay read, but an excellent retelling	This is a magical retelling that will certainly keep the attention of any adult, but is appropriate for a child of any age.  One thing I particularly love is the tomboyish characterization of the main character.  I think that young girls could learn a lot from Rosie, about love, independence, and friendship.  It does take place in a fairytale land, so even readers of Fantasy will have suspend their disbelief.  By which I mean, it is fully part of the fairy tale world - there is plentiful magic, enchantments, and animals can speak.  At the same time, Rosie and the other characters don't act wooden and stereotypical.<br />Another item of note was that it kept my interest from the first page.  Robin McKinley has a great writing style which really sweeps the reader away.	2001-08-10
US	50226616	R1YI8TIVH7WQUB	0452268060	459663146	How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents (Plume Contemporary Fiction)	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	wonderful book for adults or teens	This book will appeal to people of all ages.  While some of the men in my book club didn't find the subject matter interesting, I think most women will enjoy the book.  It tells stories of their childhood in the Carribbean, and then growing up to adulthood in the U.S.  Readers of Amy Tan will enjoy this book, with similar themes but with a Hispanic touch.<br />Thoroughly enjoyable, I did not have to struggle through any part of the book.  It is also an easy and quick read.	2001-08-07
US	50226616	R1DO2K7XY4WPGG	1878067613	813505271	DEL-Listen Up: Voices From the Next Feminist Generation	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	a good read for feminists and non-feminists alike	But you must be interested in women or social politics . . .<br />Even if you think you know what feminism is all about, one of this book's essays should give you a new perspective.  It consists of collections of essays from the many different women that call themselves feminists.  From lesbians, straight women, bisexuals, african-americans and caucasians, aerobics instructors to full-time writers . . . there is a lot of variety.  One section made me cry and I can't forget what I read in there.  Another section made me understand a feminist perspective that I had never understood before.  If you are a feminist, some of this book may be self-affirming.  If you are not yet a feminist, maybe you will learn that you can be one without losing any of your ideals.  There is room for everyone in this book.	2001-08-07
US	50226616	R3C4HW5RZMP9SM	0060957409	698013469	Slut! Growing Up Female with a Bad Reputation	Books	5	33	35	N	Y	a riveting read - close to heart	I have recommended this book to everyone I know, and I hope that I will be able to pass it onto my daughters.  Or rather, I hope my daughters will not be in a society that encourages the sexual double standard and punishes young women for natural feelings.<br />The book is non-fiction, and the author interviewed many women and girls about their experiences.  Some of the book is quite academic, quoting from various studies and going over the history of this kind of behaviour.  Other parts are retellings of people's experiences, and analyses of those.<br />Reading this book brought back many memories and emotions.  I realized that my experience as a teenager was not unique.  I had already done my own thinking, but it was great to read that someone else had come to the same conclusions.  That there still is a sexual double standard, despite the sexual revolution, and that women are punished by both men and women for having sexual urges.<br />One redeeming factor was that she definitely doesn't place all the blame for the harassment on teenage boys. She talks a lot about competitiveness between girls and how the girls are usually worse to each other. Kinda like the person who seems most homophobic is the gay one? Yeah, like that. And also about how often the adults don't report it, or stop it, or ignore complaints because they see it as correct behaviour that keeps girls in line even as it is damaging their self-esteem forever.<br />It's amazing, the more people I talk to about it, the more people bring up their own experiences. Everyone knows someone who experienced the phenomena, or they went through it themselves.  Even so-called &quot;good girls&quot; will be able to relate to the book in that the ways in which they constrained themselves.<br />It's about time someone wrote a book about this.	2001-08-07
US	50226616	R35XHU2W0NGKKC	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	One of the Best	I've read a lot of fantasy novels, but few as unique as this one.  What's unique about it?  For one, it's written from the perspective of a thief.  There aren't too many of those out there, and unlike many fantasy novels,  the character isn't a do-gooder - she simply get swept into the grand plot  mistakenly as she pursues her own opportunistic goals.<br />Secondly, it's  written from the perspective of a woman.  But not your typical fantasy  novel heroine.  This one is not just strong and independent, cunning and  intelligent.  She also doesn't harbor any silly ideas about the one true  love that's going to save her.<br />The book was very exciting, and I can't  wait for the next installment.	2000-06-27
