US	50234666	R30U9B5O3AYQ0	0871565099	6316244	In the Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of Technology and the Survival of the Indian Nations	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Good, if disjointed.	Mander was working on two books, one on the negative effects of technology on our culture, and the other of the continued exploitation of native cultures in the U.S. and around the world. He says that, somewhere along the line, he realized that these two issues were one in the same. IN THE ABSENCE OF THE SACRED is the result.<br /><br /> The scope of this book is incredibly ambitious. It reads like a wandering survey of many of the most important issues that face our globe. I agree with much of what Mander says. A lot of it I disagree with. And a fair amount of it seems tangential and unrelated. To cover everything would take a book in itself. But here are some of the highlights.<br /><br />On Technology and Corporations<br /><br /> Mander's view on technology is that we should be skeptical of it. Technology is presented to us in a biased manner; namely, by the people who want to sell it to us. True. But he suggests that technology should not be viewed as neutral, but guilty until proven innocent. He says that the only way to balance current \\"technology worship\\" is to view it negatively. I disagree. Technology has many negative aspects -- a devaluation of people, an increase in environmental hazards, an increase in psychological disorders related to the overuse of television and computers, to name a few -- but it also has positive effects, most notably in the field of medicine and person-to-person connectivity.<br /><br /> Mander lists several reasons, mostly potential but unrealized dangers, to be skeptical of computers. Some make sense. For instance, using computers in warfare dehumanizes the effort. We are not killing people, merely blips on the screen. But some of his arguments against computers are ludicrous. For instance, he cites that computerized radar systems often mistake birds for enemy aircraft, as if this proves that technology has a negative impact. He is confusing the precision of our technology with the concept of technology itself. It's like arguing that because some books have typos that books in general are bad.<br /><br /> There is a considerable amount of space devoted to the evils of television, the negative effects of the consolidation of the media, and the psychological ills television can create. While again Mander makes a few dubious assessments, overall his arguments against television are pretty solid.<br /><br /> Mander also makes an important point about the nature of public corporations: profit is the top motive. Always. So to think that a corporation will act in an altruistic manner, or in the interest of the environment alone when it is not in alignment with the profit motive is naïve. This is key when it comes to environmental issues or issues involving native cultures.<br /><br />On The Indian Nations<br /><br />The second half of the book is an overview of the dire situation many native cultures find themselves in. It is sickening to read about the continued exploitation of Native Americans by the U.S. government and U.S. corporations with very little, and typically mis-represented coverage by the media. In general, Native Americans hold lands with valuable mining, timber, and other resources (even those tribes that have been run off to the most useless, remote corners of nowhere find their lands now sought precisely because it is in the most remote corner of nowhere -- so the government can test weapons on it). The typical modus operandi is that the government creates a committee \\"representing\\" native \\"interests.\\" They then offer the tribe money for land that the U.S. has \\"wrongfully taken\\" from the tribe. This is in effect a purchase of the land. If the tribe accepts the monetary reward, they lose rights to the land. If they refuse, the money typically goes into an account for the tribe and the government takes the land anyway. Meanwhile, the committee \\"representing\\" the tribe works to iron out the deal with the government while most of the tribe shows their disapproval in the common Indian way-by dissociating themselves with the process. It is a difference in cultures. To outsiders, it seems like they are abstaining from voting, but to them, that is how they show their disproval. Thus, the only people involved are the minority that favor giving over their lands.<br /><br /> Mander gives a whirlwind around-the-globe tour of oppressed indigenous people and discusses the various ways and degrees to which these ancient cultures are persecuted and misrepresented in many parts of the globe. It is shameful to read, and surprising to hear how big of an issue it continues to be, since we rarely hear of it in the mainstream media.<br /><br />Like I said before, I agree with much of what Mander says. His environmentalism, skepticism of corporations and technology, and concern for native cultures are all important issues that should be discussed. But I have three major criticisms with how Mander presents his argument:<br /><br />A) He makes statements that he fails to adequately back up with factual information. He does this most often in his arguments against technology, making blanket statements that couldn't possibly be proven. Among other things, he correctly argues that television centralizes power, but also argues that the Internet does the same thing. This book was published in 1991, so whatever Mander says about the Internet is prediction (an inaccurate one, in this case) and he had to know that at the time.<br /><br />B) The book feels like two different books: one a critique of our technologically-driven society, and an great, but not completely relevant, overview of the predicament of native cultures. Rather than summarizing the plight of indigenous cultures around the world, it would make more sense to focus on what the native cultures understand that we don't and what we can learn from their stewardship of the Earth.<br /><br />C) Mander offers little in the way of solution. He recognizes this, saying that this is the most common criticism of his arguments. But recognizing it doesn't mean you don't have to address it. To think that someone would read 400 pages outlining some of the planet's most important problems and not look to the author for a hint of a solution seems odd. And while this book is a good overview of the problems we face, I would think there is a better wrap-up than the rather obvious statement that we must \\"do something.\\" Mander provides us a list of organizations whose aims align with his, but how about some concrete examples of what we can do? Not just individually, but as a movement. What should our strategy be? Paul Hawken, in his ECOLOGY OF COMMERCE, does a much better job at describing the change in attitudes that must take place to make progress.<br /><br />Overall, this is a great book for the myriad of issues it raises. And what the arguments lack in cohesiveness, they make up for in scope. Though a little dated, this book is a good starting place for anyone interesting in environmentalism, the plight of native cultures, or both.hemselves with the process. It is a difference in cultures. To outsiders, it seems like they are abstaining from voting, but to them, that is how they show their disproval. Thus, the only people involved are the minority that favor giving over their lands.  <br /> Mander gives a whirlwind around-the-globe tour of oppressed indigenous people and discusses the various ways and degrees to which these ancient cultures are persecuted and misrepresented in many parts of the globe. It is shameful to read, and surprising to hear how big of an issue it continues to be, since we rarely hear of it in the mainstream media. <br /> <br />Like I said before, I agree with much of what Mander says. His environmentalism, skepticism of corporations and technology, and concern for native cultures are all important issues that should be discussed. But I have three major criticisms with how Mander presents his argument: <br />A) He makes statements that he fails to adequately back up with factual information. He does this most often in his arguments against technology, making blanket statements that couldn't possibly be proven. Among other things, he correctly argues that television centralizes power, but also argues that the Internet does the same thing. This book was published in 1991, so whatever Mander says about the Internet is prediction (an inaccurate one, in this case) and he had to know that at the time.  <br />B) The book feels like two different books: one a critique of our technologically-driven society, and an great, but not completely relevant, overview of the predicament of native cultures. Rather than summarizing the plight of indigenous cultures around the world, it would make more sense to focus on what the native cultures understand that we don't and what we can learn from their stewardship of the Earth.  <br />C) Mander offers little in the way of solution. He recognizes this, saying that this is the most common criticism of his arguments. But recognizing it doesn't mean you don't have to address it. To think that someone would read 400 pages outlining some of the planet's most important problems and not look to the author for a hint of a solution seems odd. And while this book is a good overview of the problems we face, I would think there is a better wrap-up than the rather obvious statement that we must \\"do something.\\" Mander provides us a list of organizations whose aims align with his, but how about some concrete examples of what we can do? Not just individually, but as a movement. What should our strategy be? Paul Hawken, in his ECOLOGY OF COMMERCE, does a much better job at describing the change in attitudes that must take place to make progress. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a great book for the myriad of issues it raises. And what the arguments lack in cohesiveness, they make up for in scope. Though a little dated, this book is a good starting place for anyone interesting in environmentalism, the plight of native cultures, or both.	2005-09-11
US	50234666	R1IMJ05L4IXCMT	0876859260	10211078	Pulp	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Clever at best.	This was Bukowski's last published work before he died. It's an old-fashioned detective novel, or a parody of one, and an allegory about a man getting ready to die. It's clever at best. There are some great one-liners. At worst, it's convoluted and easy. Taken in context of Bukowski's life, it's a big middle finger to all the literary elitism Bukowski despised. But as a stand-alone book, it's little more than its title suggests: pulp. Fluff. And if you're not interested in Bukowski's life, this book has little to offer.	2005-09-11
US	50234666	R22P7PVL53L7UM	0316472573	696326869	Cold Snap: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very solid collection	This collection of short stories by the celebrated author of THE PUGILIST AT REST offers more of the same: hard-hitting writing, edgy story-telling, and characters that are gritty, flawed, and likable all at once. Jones proves his mastery of the short story, and if many of his characters seem to be versions of each other, it is usually a welcome redundancy. You get the feeling that Jones is experimenting to see what else he can do with these various anti-heroes, what other versions of their lives he can tell. Or perhaps he is telling stories of the sort of characters he knows best. Some of the elements that held Pugilist together resurface here-boxing, drug addiction, tough men past their prime-and a few new ones surface: Africa, diabetes, eccentric doctors. My favorite stories include \\"Way Down Deep In the Jungle\\" about a Kiwi doctor in Zaire with an alcoholic baboon as a pet, \\"Oh Baby Baby\\" about a hot-shot Hollywood plastic surgeon with problems with his insides, and \\"Dynamite Hands\\" about some boxers. While I didn't like the collection as a whole as much as I liked PUGILIST, these stories in particular are fantastic.	2005-08-22
US	50234666	R59V888XZP9CS	1400063833	97937991	Until I Find You: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Good, but not Irving's best	John Irving has been my favorite author for years. Two of his books (A Prayer for Owen Meany and The Cider House Rules) are in my top ten favorite novels. So every time he publishes a book, I have very high expectations. His last book, The Fourth Hand, was a disappointment. His writing style was different. The characters not as deeply developed. It seemed as if he were writing for a movie (who could blame him--he'd just won an Oscar). It was my least favorite of his books. So, when I heard that Until I Find You would be his longest book, I was excited. The girth of this story hinted at a return to form for Irving. 820 pages! Character development aplenty. Like Owen Meany and Homer Wells (Cider House), I figured we'd follow a character from childhood through adulthood. And indeed, we do.<br /><br />********WARNING: PLOT SPOILERS. JUMP AHEAD TO SKIP PLOT SYNOPSIS*********<br /><br /> Jack Burns is an actor. His mother is a tattoo artist, his father a tattoo-addicted church organist (tattooed on every inch of his body except his hands, face(...)). The story begins with Jack as a four-year-old. His mother drags him all across Europe in search of his father, who has purportedly absconded. His mother funds their travels by running a tattoo parlor out of their various hotel rooms. They chase Jack's father from country to country, hot on his tail, and we are introduced to a host of tattoo artists with names as colorful as their tattoos. Jack's mother finally gives up searching for her father when she learns that he has left for Australia. At least, this is the story we are told. But, as Irving tells us \\"So much of what you remember is a lie, the stuff of postcards.\\" Especially true when you're a four-year-old boy.<br /><br /> Jack's mother takes Jack to Toronto and enrolls him in an all-girls school that's just started admitting boys. Even so young, Jack is a magnet for older girls. His father, he learns, was quite the womanizer, legendary among the faculty and students alike. His father's reputation seems to be what many of the women find intriguing in Jack, and he is molested (though he never sees it as being particularly bad) by any number of older girls before he is a teenager and, in what is the most disturbing part of the book, an unattractive older heavyset woman named Mrs. Machado. This will all shape Jack's future neurosis (and his attraction to older women).<br /><br /> We follow Jack through his school days, as a budding actor who finds special talent in playing the roles of women. After college, he moves to L.A. to live with his closest friend Emma and to pursue his acting career. This portion of the book is vintage Irving-outlandish, at times perverse, and hilarious. It culminates in Jack's eventual success, celebrity, and Oscar win. The best moment comes when, backstage at the Oscars, Jack stands at the urinal in the men's room, awkwardly attempting to hold his Oscar (he doesn't want to put it on the floor) and do what he needs to do when someone asks is he needs a hand. He looks over to see none other than Arnold Schwarzenegger. It is odd to read Irving describe a world populated with modern movie stars and celebrities, but it is perhaps this part of the book that is the most successful, certainly the most humorous.<br /><br /> But even Oscar can't fulfill Jack. He's missing something in his life. This causes him to become reckless with his fame, a bit of a loose cannon, and he gets himself into potentially explosive situations that never quite explode. He also finds himself in therapy, recounting his life to his psychiatrist. Up to this point (and this is 600+ pages into the book), we still don't really know Jack as a character. He's certainly no Homer Wells or Owen Meany. Irving readily admits this. His psychiatrist says to him: \\"'I regret that, in your case, you've been a very faithful storyteller-and a very thorough one, I believe--yet I don't feel that I know you. I know what's happened to you. Do I ever know it-adnauseam! But you haven't revealed yourself, Jack. I still don't know who you are. Please tell me who you are.\\"<br /><br /> It's not an easy question to answer. Especially when Jack begins to discover that much of what he believed to be true about his mother, himself, and his father was completely fabricated by his mother. He literally doesn't know who he is or what happened to him as a kid. He leaves for Europe to retrace his young childhood, meeting with old tattoo artist friends of his mother's and people who knew his father. The story of what actually happened when Jack traveled around Europe as a four-year-old is told, and much of what we believed took place, as well as our opinions of characters, is reshaped.<br /><br /> The book culminates with a call from a sister Jack never knew he had, and an invitation to come meet his father, who is still alive and still tattooed, but slightly insane. It is here that Jack, not surprisingly, finally finds meaning in his life.<br /><br />******************END PLOT SPOILERS******************<br /><br /> Much of the criticism of Until I Find You surrounds the length. It is certainly a book you wouldn't want to drop on your foot. But as an Irving fan, I never got bored with the story. It is populated with Irving standards-wrestling, sexual taboo, absent fathers, and New England prep schools-and it introduces some new elements as well-Hollywood, tattoos, and church organs. His meticulous and obsessive research of the latter two are obvious. In truth, I'm not sure what he could have cut if he'd wanted to.<br /><br /> Despite his insistence on telling what his characters are feeling, unnecessarily italicizing words of emphasis, and explaining the obvious, Irving is still a master craftsman. My two biggest criticisms of Until I Find You are that Jack Burns never feels developed, or at least revealed. I never get a grip on who Jack Burns is. I know, that's the point. He's an actor who's acting through much of the book. He doesn't even know himself. True, but it doesn't make for a lovable main character (again, he's no Owen Meany or Homer Wells). I found myself liking the secondary characters more. Claudia and Emma in particular. I love Emma.<br /><br /> My other criticism is that there seems to be a lack of conflict. In a story of finding oneself, much of the conflict is, of course, internal. But getting out of messes seems to come too easily to Jack, and that seems like a missed opportunity. As a character, he is most likeable and sympathetic when he squirms. I would have liked more squirming.<br /><br /> I thoroughly enjoyed Until I Find You. I loved parts of it. But, unfortunately, I didn't love all it. If you've read every other Irving book, go for it. Otherwise, I'd start with Owen Meany, Cider House Rules, A Widow For One Year, The World According To Garp, or The Hotel New Hampshire.urself, Jack. I still don't know who you are. Please tell me who you are.\\"      It's not an easy question to answer. Especially when Jack begins to discover that much of what he believed to be true about his mother, himself, and his father was completely fabricated by his mother. He literally doesn't know who he is or what happened to him as a kid. He leaves for Europe to retrace his young childhood, meeting with old tattoo artist friends of his mother's and people who knew his father. The story of what actually happened when Jack traveled around Europe as a four-year-old is told, and much of what we believed took place, as well as our opinions of characters, is reshaped.     The book culminates with a call from a sister Jack never knew he had, and an invitation to come meet his father, who is still alive and still tattooed, but slightly insane. It is here that Jack, not surprisingly, finally finds meaning in his life.     ******************END PLOT SPOILERS******************     Much of the criticism of Until I Find You surrounds the length. It is certainly a book you wouldn't want to drop on your foot. But as an Irving fan, I never got bored with the story. It is populated with Irving standards-wrestling, sexual taboo, absent fathers, and New England prep schools-and it introduces some new elements as well-Hollywood, tattoos, and church organs. His meticulous and obsessive research of the latter two are obvious. In truth, I'm not sure what he could have cut if he'd wanted to.      Despite his insistence on telling what his characters are feeling, unnecessarily italicizing words of emphasis, and explaining the obvious, Irving is still a master craftsman. My two biggest criticisms of Until I Find You are that Jack Burns never feels developed, or at least revealed. I never get a grip on who Jack Burns is. I know, that's the point. He's an actor who's acting through much of the book. He doesn't even know himself. True, but it doesn't make for a lovable main character(again, he's no Owen Meany or Homer Wells). I found myself liking the secondary characters more. Claudia and Emma in particular. I love Emma.     My other criticism is that there seems to be a lack of conflict. In a story of finding oneself, much of the conflict is, of course, internal. But getting out of messes seems to come too easily to Jack, and that seems like a missed opportunity. As a character, he is most likeable and sympathetic when he squirms. I would have liked more squirming.      I thoroughly enjoyed Until I Find You. I loved parts of it. But, unfortunately, I didn't love all it. If you've read every other Irving book, go for it. Otherwise, I'd start with Owen Meany, Cider House Rules, A Widow For One Year, The World According To Garp, or The Hotel New Hampshire.	2005-08-16
US	50234666	R3OBABU40NJ0CW	0804718849	406992553	The Wizards of Armageddon (Stanford Nuclear Age Series)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An interesting read	This is the history of the strategy behind the U.S. nuclear arsenal, from the moment we dropped atomic bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima through the Reagan years. While the book does get into specifics about meetings and memos, the over-arching story is quite interesting, especially as it pertains to the current state of affairs with U.S. foreign policy. If there is one lesson to take away from the book, it is that strategy and intelligence can and will be built around a predetermined political goal, when an administration chooses to use it in such a way. Bush Jr. is not the first, nor will he be the last president to have intelligence manufactured to support his specific strategy. From early on, when the Air Force and Army officials crafted their intelligence reports to favor themselves when it came time to create the budgets, to Kissinger's altering of CIA reports on Soviet missiles to support his own missile defense agenda, intelligence and strategy has been slave to policy, not the other way around.<br /><br />But aside from the political maneuverings and dealings, this book covers the rise of the defense intellectua--strategists born of academic economic theory rather than hardened by battlefield experience--to the highest ranks in devising nuclear strategy. It covers the cycles, from an all-out destroy everything strategy to a counterforce/military targets strategy, from viewing the atomic bomb as the ultimate weapon to considering it merely another tool in the conventional arsenal. Through the years, the strategies came and went in phases, but in reality there were only a few recycled strategies, and basically the same problem holds for each: we just don't know if they'll work. They're all theory, despite the illusion, during the Reagan years, that these are tested, scientific truths. After more than fifty years, the only truth is that we still haven't figured out how to use the atomic weapon. The only thing that can be said for certain is that we have, to date, avoided nuclear holocaust. Considering how close came on more than one instance during the Cold War, that is a feat in itself. Whether the atom bomb can be credited for deterring Armageddon or whether we managed to avoid it despite the bomb is a question this book examines. But there are really no fast and true answers.te, avoided nuclear holocaust. Considering how close came on more than one instance during the Cold War, that is a feat in itself. Whether the atom bomb can be credited for deterring Armageddon or whether we managed to avoid it despite the bomb is a question this book examines. But there are really no fast and true answers.	2005-07-06
US	50234666	R1XDHN8TCZAY82	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Moving hypnotic.	I saw this movie, Sophia Coppola's first, and thought it was very well done. From the narration in the movie, it's obvious that the book is well-written. But it's always hard to read a book after you've seen the movie, so I didn't think I would. Then I read Eugenides's MIDDLESEX and immediately wanted to read everything he'd written.<br /><br />While SUICIDES doesn't have the scope of MIDDLESEX, it's a great book nonetheless. Haunting and funny and familiar and perverse, it deftly picks the strings that tie memories of childhood together. Especially for male readers, it captures perfectly the wonder with which adolescent boys regard the fairer sex and the degree to which these affections occupy us, even as adults.<br /><br />The brilliance of this book is in the point-of-view Eugenides creates. The unnamed narrator-one of the boys who lived within view of the Lisbon home, where five young girls grew up-looks back many years after the fact. He, and his friends, have been unable to shake the memory of the Lisbon girls, or find sufficient explanation for their tragedy. Much of the information has been collected from interviews and \\"exhibits\\" collected from the Lisbon's trash. This point of view allows the narrator to control the information with precision. Even though we are on the outside, we are given measured glimpses within the walls of the Lisbon house. And even though we are privy to the wisdom of an adult with the benefit of age and perspective, most of the story is told with the wide-eyed naivet&eacute; of a teenage boy. Although complicated, Eugenides uses the POV to great success, and tells a story that, in more ways than one, I was sad to see come to an end.	2005-06-29
US	50234666	R2I2YXDTQRO8O8	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great companion to CATCHER IN THE RYE	This is an incredibly complex book for its brevity. Two inter-related stories take place in only five scenes, but the scale of the story and depth of the characters is much greater. Part of this is due to Salinger's uncanny ability to hit the nail on the head when it comes to young people coming to grips with the realities of the world and how they fit into it. In a few pages, we know the characters because we were the characters. We went through the same things they're going through. Whether it's Holden Caulfield in CATCHER IN THE RYE, or Franny Glass in this book, there's a little bit of us in the characters and a little of the characters in us.<br /><br />Franny and Zooey is about a teenage girl going through the crisis of finding herself and her brother coming to her aid as she borders on nervous breakdown. Franny and Zooey are the youngest of seven children, all geniuses and all showbiz prodigies. The first story, \\"Franny,\\" is a pretty straightforward scene of Franny's breakdown. It has smart dialogue and I absolutely love Franny by the end of it, but the real meat of this book comes with the second story.<br /><br />Some people have latched onto exactly what causes Franny's condition as the main question in the story. I thought it a more interesting question: Who is the narrator of \\"Zooey?\\" We are told early on that it is an elder brother, Buddy, but I'm not so sure we should take this at face value, especially considering Zooey's tendency to act and impersonate, as exemplified later in the story. Could Zooey possibly be the narrator, and how does that change our perception of the story?<br /><br />There is a line in \\"Zooey\\" that goes: \\"...all legitemate religious study must lead to unlearning the differences, the illusory differences between boys and girls, animals and stones, day and night, heat and cold.\\" This seemed one of the major themes of the book, one of the lessons Franny is learning. It also applies to a comparison between Franny and CATCHER's Holden Caulfield. There's more in common between people, things, etc., than one may think. Sometimes it just takes a higher viewpoint.<br /><br />This is a great book for a lit class, with many questions for discussion. Zooey's point, as he talks Franny out of her hole, that what motivates her-the quest for knowledge and enlightenment-is no different than than what motivates the people she looks down upon-those seekind money, fame, culture, property. With one swift stab, he pokes a hole in her stance of intellectual superiority. Whether one agrees with his argument or not, the dynamic between the younger, searching sister and older, slightly wiser brother is laced with insight and interest. A great, quick read.re in common between people, things, etc., than one may think. Sometimes it just takes a higher viewpoint.    This is a great book for a lit class, with many questions for discussion. Zooey's point, as he talks Franny out of her hole, that what motivates her-the quest for knowledge and enlightenment-is no different than than what motivates the people she looks down upon-those seekind money, fame, culture, property. With one swift stab, he pokes a hole in her stance of intellectual superiority. Whether one agrees with his argument or not, the dynamic between the younger, searching sister and older, slightly wiser brother is laced with insight and interest. A great, quick read.	2005-06-29
US	50234666	R3K8I8OFGOG4PA	0472089579	998227991	A Frieze of Girls: Memoirs as Fiction (Sweetwater Fiction: Reintroductions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful slice of growing up.	Allan Seager is an incredibly under-rated writer. I came across one of his short stories in an issue of McSweeney's and have been trying to get my hands on as much of his stuff as I can (sometimes tough as all but this book have been out of print for quite some time). There is a tenderness and subtlety to Seager's writing that recalls the best writers of the last century. He has been compared to Hemmingway and Sherwood Anderson. A Frieze of Girls is memoir as fiction. \\"Time makes fiction out of our memories,\\" Seager says in his preface. A beautiful and sad thought in its own right. \\"The feel of truth is very like the feel of fiction.\\" This is a collection of stories about a young man's coming of age. It is Seager finding himself, finding the author, intellectual, and smartass that he would become. The stories are reminiscent of other authors who write of life as a well-off scholarly boy among other well-off scholarly boys. James Joyce, John Irving. Chronologically, A Frieze of Girls fits between the two. The history is different, but the themes of crossing the brink from boyhood to manhood never change. And Seager paints it as beautifully as any of the other masters who have written on the subject.	2005-05-06
US	50234666	R3UJKCW8OOSL7U	0060555602	126822241	Confessions of a Tax Collector: One Man's Tour of Duty Inside the IRS	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Engaging, interesting, at times hilarious.	I'm a firm believer that everyone has enough drama in his line of work and, if told with a compelling voice, anybody's story can be interesting. I'm also interested in the day-to-day of people's chosen lines of work. So that alone would make this book educational. But Yancey's wry sense of sarcasm and the obsession he develops with his job make this story fascinating. This is an autobiography, and although Yancey admits to exaggeration and embellishment, you sense nothing but stark honesty in his portrayal of himself and his trip to the dark side. He passes no judgment and makes no apologies. There are moments where I questioned whether or not I liked him as a person, wondered about his ethical compass, suspected him to be the perfect example of why people hate the IRS. But in the end, I couldn't help but like him as a narrator. While Yancey's description of life with the IRS is interesting, what's most fascinating is how quickly he becomes obsessed with the power the IRS bestows upon him. It literally becomes the one and only focus of his life. He shows no regret for this. Likewise, in his moments of moral heroism, he doesn't boast. He merely tells the story. And a good story it is.<br /><br />If you like this book, you may want to check out THEM by Jon Ronson. It has the same wry sensibility and is pretty outlandish.	2005-05-04
US	50234666	R2JC78Q8XX6E02	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious, Haunting, Unforgettable.	As is usually the case when I see a movie before I read the book, I couldn't help but picture Jack Nicholson when I read about Randle Patrick McMurphy. Considering how good the movie is, though, this isn't a bad thing. My only complaint about this book is that I didn't read it sooner. Hilarious, touching, infuriating, and haunting, this is the complete novel. Although the story is told from the point of view of Chief Bromden, a supposedly deaf and dumb half-Native America mental patient at an asylum in Oregon, this is really the story about McMurphy and how he changes the lives of the patients around him as he competes in a game of wit and will with Nurse Ratched. It's a classic clash between authority and rebellion, structure and whimsy, and mindless traditionalism and common sense. What's most amazing is that Kesey has created a handful of unforgettable characters in this one story, but has balanced them so well that they serve as perfect complements for each other's idiosyncrasies, and none of them overshadows the others. I loved every page of this book. It makes my top ten. I'd give it seven stars out of five if I could.	2005-04-21
US	50234666	REF1B0JTSEZBX	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very quick, very smart, very good.	This story is told from the point of view of Christopher, a 15-year-old autistic boy. A brilliant left-brained thinker and problem solver, Christopher cannot read people's emotions, cannot detect sarcasm, does not understand metaphors (but does understand similes because they use \\"like\\" or \\"as\\"), thinks the concept of God is silly, doesn't not like to be touched, cannot bear crowded rooms, will wet his pants rather than use a dirty public toilet, and has trouble focusing in our over-stimulating modern world.<br /><br />Christopher loves to solve problems, so when he finds his neighbor's dog, Wellington, pinned to the ground with a pitchfork in the opening chapter, he decides this is a mystery he must solve. What he uncovers is much more than who killed the dog. And what we are treated to along the way is an insightful, convincing look into the mind of someone whose mind works in a completely unique way. What seems like the everyday to most of us, takes a lot of courage for Christopher. In fact, anything out of the ordinary is a heroic effort for a boy who feels comfortable only in routine. And although we may not be able to relate to his exact mindset, Hadden does a wonderful job of making us feel how Christopher feels, and we certainly have sympathy for him.<br /><br />Aside from the convincing voice with which Haddon tells the story, the brilliance of this novel is that Christopher's point of view allows the reader to see and understand things the narrator does not. It reminded me of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD in that regard. We know more about what is happening around Christopher than Christopher does. This also adds to the potency of some of the situations. Because Christopher does not grasp the gravity of death or divorce, he does not sugar-coat them like a \\"normal\\" adult narrator would. The writing is engaging, the narrative voice captivating, and I felt at times like I cared more about Christopher than he did. A very quick, very good read.	2005-04-01
US	50234666	RAHODG7EOBMSJ	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	3	46	59	N	N	More of the same from Chuck--Not a bad thing if you like it.	Trying to describe a Chuck Palahniuk novel is like trying to describe a freak show-you just kind of have to be there to appreciate it. The power of Palahniuk's novels isn't in the satire-he attacks fairly easy targets, and most of what he has to say about them has been said before. What make his novels enjoyable are the off-the-wall characters. Invisible Monsters is no exception.<br /><br /> This book is about people who want to be someone else-anyone other than themselves. The narrator says upfront that this is not going to be a linear story. It will jump from here to there. And it does. It's a hodgepodge of fragments that you have to piece together. When you do so, what you see is twisted. A former beauty queen who had half of her face shot off, along with a transvestite who wants to be a beauty queen, and a not-so-by-the-book cop are on a road trip, visiting upscale homes during open houses, stealing drugs from the medicine cabinets, and selling them to kids on the street. And that's just the tip of the iceberg.<br /><br /> If there's one thing for which Palahniuk will never be criticized, it's being predictable. Still, there's predictability to his chaos. He has a formula: pick a target (in this case the fashion world), scrounge together some psychopaths, come up with a twisted plot with a handful of shocking surprises, chop is up so it's out of chronological order, and invent a couple of writing devices to help tell the story. The only problem is, once you've seen one freak show, the next one isn't quite as freaky. Once you've met a few Palahniuk characters, the psychotic becomes commonplace. Once you've experienced one or two Palahniuk endings, the next one isn't as surprising. Once you get used to the style and devices, they start to wear on you. (Remember in Fight Club, his \\"This is Jack's...\\"? He uses similar devices in this book. Repeatedly. Over and over again.) And although his voice is strong, it never varies from character to character. I always hear Tyler Durden, regardless of who the narrator is supposed to be. Finally, he explores the same themes over and over in his books (Identity, our conflicted selves, our struggle to break out of our modern homogenized lives). There's nothing wrong with this if he does it in a different way, but it adds to the feeling that you've been down this road and heard this story before.<br /><br /> So it comes back to the characters. You never really care about a Palahniuk character. They're not sympathetic. So you hope for insanity. Just so they're interesting. The more messed up, the more shocking and disturbing their actions, the better. And don't get me wrong: Invisible Monsters definitely has its moments. But it doesn't live up to Fight Club or Choke. I'd start there. If you've already read those and liked them, and would like more of the same, then maybe Invisible Monsters is a good book for you.egardless of who the narrator is supposed to be. Finally, he explores the same themes over and over in his books (Identity, our conflicted selves, our struggle to break out of our modern homogenized lives). There's nothing wrong with this if he does it in a different way, but it adds to the feeling that you've been down this road and heard this story before.      So it comes back to the characters. You never really care about a Palahniuk character. They're not sympathetic. So you hope for insanity. Just so they're interesting. The more messed up, the more shocking and disturbing their actions, the better. And don't get me wrong: Invisible Monsters definitely has its moments. But it doesn't live up to Fight Club or Choke. I'd start there. If you've already read those and liked them, and would like more of the same, then maybe Invisible Monsters is a good book for you.	2005-03-27
US	50234666	RDS93N6F58H0X	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	BRILLIANT	Eugenides deserves every bit of the Pulitzer prize he won for this amazing story. I cannot recall a more original, well-written, well-paced novel. The deftness with which Euginides skips through time and jumps from one character's point-of-view to another's is, from a writer's viewpoint, stunning. The story is so convincing and unique that it is hard to believe Euginides didn't live through it all himself.<br /><br />To say that Middlesex is about a hermaphrodite would be incomplete and give an incorrect impression. While the main character is indeed a boy who was raised half his life as a girl, the story is more about what makes a person who he is. Sprawling in scope, the story begins several generations before the birth of our narrator, Cal Stephanides, in Greece.  It follows Cal's grandparents as they flee a war to America and settle in Detroit. It is an immigrant song and a history lesson, and the first act of a Greek tragedy, as Cal's grandparents are also brother and sister. This incestuous coupling leads to a gene mutation that will, two generations later, culminate with the birth of our narrator.<br /><br />Despite its physical girth (500+ pages), Middlesex is a surprisingly fast read. This is a testament to both Eugenides's writing and seamless plotting. Not once, even though it is 125 pages before the narrator is even born, does the story drag. Not once did I flip forward to see how many more pages were left in the chapter. If anything, I wanted more. Cal's narration is engaging and likable, &aacute; la Holden Caulfield, and even though he tells the story as a thirty-five-year-old, he nails perfectly the confusion of a young teenager trying to find himself. That's where the greatest strength of this novel lies: even though the narrator has more to discover than the average teenager, the emotion and turmoil of what he experiences is completely relatable. Because of this, the story becomes not about freakishness, but about what is most human in all of us. It's an incredibly ambitious undertaking for a second novel, and Eugenides pulls it off brilliantly. I could not recommend this book more.an incredibly ambitious undertaking for a second novel, and Eugenides pulls it off brilliantly. I could not recommend this book more.	2005-03-22
US	50234666	R3JU7PECIELDBM	080503756X	909237037	Off for the Sweet Hereafter: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Good Yarn	I read this a few years ago because I thought it was a different book. It was a happy accident. Pearson has an original style. His book flows with very little punctuation like the mind of someone on his fifth cup of coffee. He writes of southern life as a southerner. He can poke fun, but it's in good fun. He cares about his characters, and  because of that we do too. This book is at times hilarious, at times dark, at times touching. I disagree with the review that said this book has no plot. There's plenty of plot here. Much of it just happens inside the characters.	2005-03-15
US	50234666	R2P7LZ7KP8FDXD	0595132456	341391359	The Powells.com Interviews: 22 Authors and Artists Talk About Their Books	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good way to broaden your reading list.	Powells.com is an independent bookstore in Portland, Oregon and online bookseller that operates like Amazon. I get their monthly newsletter, which has reviews of the latest books as well as interviews with authors. Sometimes I read the interview, depending on who the author is. This book, however, is all interviews. All kinds of writers and artists talking about their books. Bill Bryson, Mary Higgins Clark, Roddy Doyle, Ian Frazier, A.M. Homes, Anne Liebovitz, Paul Thereau, and others. It's well done. Weich keeps the interviews interesting. And although I enjoyed some more than others, I read a lot of interviews I would usually pass on, and found some of them surprisingly interesting, even added some of their books to my wish list.	2005-02-24
US	50234666	R2G6F0TC2ZLKYP	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Vintage Vonn, or so I hear	An apocalyptic satire of some of the institutions most easily satired-government, religion, military. But Vonnegut is wholly original, as always. His satire holds up today, and there is nothing expected about this book, which involves, among other things: the midget offspring of one of the inventors of the atomic bomb, a form of dangerous ice with the power to freeze people, a tropical island with natives exploited by Americans, and a made-up religion that is just weird enough to be believable. My only criticism, if any, is that although I found the characters interesting, hilarious at times, I wasn't emotionally attached to any of them. I didn't enjoy it as much as Vonnegut's Breakfast of Champions, but it was a good read nonetheless.	2005-02-24
US	50234666	R36G1GSF1PKP0C	1591840783	646849300	Brand Hijack: Marketing Without Marketing	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Fascinating case studies, interesting philosophy.	I was fortunate enough to get an advanced copy of this book, just by pure chance. Wipperfurth saw my review of Malcolm Gladwell's THE TIPPING POINT and emailed me to see if I'd be interested. Guess some good things do come of writing all these reviews.<br /><br />More focused on brands than Gladwell's book, which was about broader social epidemics, BRAND HIJACK is a fascinating book. The term \\"brand hijack\\" refers to a group of consumers taking your brand and giving it an identity you as a marketer were not counting on. Like when punk culture re-appropriated Dr. Marten's, originally a worker's boot, into footwear that makes a political statement. While traditional marketing wisdom would say that this is a bad thing, that the last thing a marketer wants to do is lose control of their brand's meaning, Wipperfurth proposes that in some cases it can be a good thing, even something to encourage.<br /><br /> Brand Hijack is choc full of case studies, both successful and unsuccessful. Dr. Marten's, Red Bull, Napster, Ipod, Southwest Airlines. Great brands. It presents examples of how a brand should and should not treat its customers if it's looking for true, long-term loyalty. And it argues that one powerful method to create the powerful bonds that lead to such loyalty is through allowing and encouraging your brand to be hijacked. Hijacking of brands is a risky, unpredictable, and potentially long process that's a far cry from the traditional marketing formula, but if anyone doubts its potential, consider this: According to Landor's 2001 survey of global image power, Napster had a global rank near that of Sony's. In one year of its existence, with a marketing budget of under $1 million (compared to Sony's $1 billion+ lifetime budget). Something to make one take notice.<br /><br /> Brand Hijack also has an interesting section that compares the psychology of what Wippperfurth calls a \\"brand tribe\\" (a group of people who use a brand, such as Ipod, to foster social connections) to that of a cult. And he includes a much-needed and heart-felt call for responsibility as marketers. Although it's a topic that could fill a book itself, it certainly deserves a place in any discussion of non-traditional marketing. Where do we draw our lines?<br /><br /> As a writer at an ad agency and teacher of an advertising class on branding, I would recommend this book to any marketer, advertiser, student of advertising, or fan of Gladwell's THE TIPPING POINT. It gives one a lot to think about, and inspiration to think of consumers in wholly different ways.ections) to that of a cult. And he includes a much-needed and heart-felt call for responsibility as marketers. Although it's a topic that could fill a book itself, it certainly deserves a place in any discussion of non-traditional marketing. Where do we draw our lines? <br />  <br /> As a writer at an ad agency and teacher of an advertising class on branding, I would recommend this book to any marketer, advertiser, student of advertising, or fan of Gladwell's THE TIPPING POINT. It gives one a lot to think about, and inspiration to think of consumers in wholly different ways.	2005-02-10
US	50234666	R3P5ZBOUUCKU8W	087067935X	810488714	Pimp: The Story of My Life	Books	4	42	47	N	N	A nice place to visit, but I wouldn't want to live there...	This is the autobiography of a pimp. There's nothing apologetic in it. The author regrets the line of work he chose, but you never get the impression that he's overplaying or underplaying any story in this book. It doesn't judge. It doesn't glamorize. It is nothing but honest. You get the impression that he's is telling this to you, or wrote it as it came to him and never went back to edit. Even the typos and misspellings added to the authenticity.<br /><br />As a look into an unknown world, this book is fascinating. As a piece of writing, it certainly expanded my vocabulary. There's a glossary in the back for all the slang, but I found that I didn't even know a lot of the words that weren't included in the glossary, presumably because their meaning is well-known. And for all the sex and brutality in the book, the writing is well-crafted-you know enough, but it's never graphic for the sake of it.<br /><br />The story itself is basically the life of this pimp, nicknamed Iceberg Slim. He tells you upfront that he was very lucky he didn't end up dead or in jail, as most people of his profession do. The story follows him from a young naïve kid to a wise old pimp at the top of his game. The book was written in the late 60s, but the story runs mostly from the '30s-'50s. From different cities to different jails, from whore to whore, the entire book oozes seediness and grit. It makes very clear that there is nothing glamorous in the life of a pimp.	2005-02-10
US	50234666	R1R3PTWF3NL584	0824516451	498013555	Violence Unveiled: Humanity at the Crossroads	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Good, but not what I was expecting	Bailie asserts that the Gospel has fundamentally changed the way humanity views what he calls sacrificial violence. Taken in the big scheme of history, the Bible is relatively new literature.  And regardless of one's personal beliefs, it is hard to argue that the Bible hasn't been the dominant moral influence on the Western World. The argument Bailie makes in the first half of this book is that violence, along with many obvious negative effects, can positively affect a society's structure. Ancient cultures engaged in sacrificial violence, often in the form of ritual sacrifice. While to a Christian outsider this may seem immoral, it served a purpose within those cultures by unifying them. In it's simplest form, often as a scapegoating device, a religious leader would select a person to sacrifice before a tribe went to war, or to appease the gods so that the crops might grow. While it is tough to believe that these sacrifices had anything to do with the outcome of a war, Bailie suggests that they actually did. It wasn't that the gods were pleased and thus helped the tribe, but that the tribe was united by this ritual. It served as a kind of primitive pep rally. It was more a psychological advantage than a divine one. That was the nature of many cultures throughout the world. They were bound by ritual violence in one form or another. What the story of Jesus did, was flip that on its head. The Bible was the first religious literature to be told from the point of view of the victim. Jesus was by choice a victim of ritual, state-sanctioned violence. \\"Forgive them, Father, they know not what they do.\\" This, according to Bailie, threw back the curtain, or unveiled the machinery that was in place. Bailie uses several examples of groups engaged in a frenzy of impulsive violence, shocked to their senses by an outsider stepping in and questioning it. That, on a cultural level, is what Jesus did. He threw the world into a crisis because the Christian viewpoint can no longer accept this ritual violence (there's a section on the church and church-sanctioned violence, but that's something else), and thus one of the pillars that held civilization together has been removed. We are desperately searching for something to replace it.<br /><br />I had hoped, from this point, that Bailie would go into HOW we are trying to replace it, what this means for modern culture, and how we can survive this crisis as a unified world. Instead, what follows is an in-depth analysis of the Gospels, where he dissects many of the stories to support his grander assertions. I wish he'd gone the other way. Rather than support his assertions, I was more interested in the implications of his assertions. What are some current forms of sacrificial violence? There are many, I believe. Our current wars. Our criminal justice system. Capital punishment. One does not need to look further than the spectacle of the Scott Peterson case to see that this is the current equivalent of tying someone to a tree and stoning them. This is not to comment on Peterson's guilt or innocence, merely on the effect this spectacle has on society. It has been said that nothing brings a country together like a war. I wish Bailie had explored these topics, but aside from a short bit on nationalism as the new religion and a brief examination of a few modern genocides, he turns inward to Biblical analysis.<br /><br />Perhaps it's unfair to criticize this book for not doing something the author never intended to do in the first place. Bailie's breadth of source material (he draws from all facets of history, literature, poetry, and religious material) is incredible. But as someone uninterested in Biblical analysis, and as someone who was on board with Bailie's theory already, I would have found an application of his theory much more interesting than a support of it. Maybe that will be another book.pt this ritual violence (there's a section on the church and church-sanctioned violence, but that's something else), and thus one of the pillars that held civilization together has been removed. We are desperately searching for something to replace it. <br />  <br />I had hoped, from this point, that Bailie would go into HOW we are trying to replace it, what this means for modern culture, and how we can survive this crisis as a unified world. Instead, what follows is an in-depth analysis of the Gospels, where he dissects many of the stories to support his grander assertions. I wish he'd gone the other way. Rather than support his assertions, I was more interested in the implications of his assertions. What are some current forms of sacrificial violence? There are many, I believe. Our current wars. Our criminal justice system. Capital punishment. One does not need to look further than the spectacle of the Scott Peterson case to see that this is the current equivalent of tying someone to a tree and stoning them. This is not to comment on Peterson's guilt or innocence, merely on the effect this spectacle has on society. It has been said that nothing brings a country together like a war. I wish Bailie had explored these topics, but aside from a short bit on nationalism as the new religion and a brief examination of a few modern genocides, he turns inward to Biblical analysis.  <br /> <br />Perhaps it's unfair to criticize this book for not doing something the author never intended to do in the first place. Bailie's breadth of source material (he draws from all facets of history, literature, poetry, and religious material) is incredible. But as someone uninterested in Biblical analysis, and as someone who was on board with Bailie's theory already, I would have found an application of his theory much more interesting than a support of it. Maybe that will be another book.	2005-01-27
US	50234666	R29J2CM5T8ALYJ	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Imperfect	WHITE NOISE is a book not about death, but the fear of death. It centers on a man, Jack Gladney, and his family. It's hard to figure out which of Jack's kids are from which of his several marriages, and even harder to discern their age (since all of his characters speak with the depth of a 50-year-old college professor). This all adds to the surreal feel of the book. In a way, I felt like Delillo was trying to create noise of his own. The ideas and themes and plotlines come all at once, from different angles, from different characters. There is an absurdity to it all-Jack is a professor in Hitler studies, his wife is taking a drug that helps her deal with the fear of death (something Jack desperately wants), his son's friend is trying to get into the Guiness Book of World Records by locking himself in a box with two dozen poisonous snakes, there is a train wreck and chemical spill which force the Gladneys to evacuate...It mimics the randomness of life, although everything is more dramatic in the book.<br /><br /> One Amazon reviewer called Delillo's style \\"uniquely contemporary,\\" which I think describes it well. It is sparse, laced with sardonic humor and satire. His prose jumps from topic to topic without warning. It reads fast and kept my attention throughout. Parts of it, notably the satire of academia, are hilarious. But I felt like I was wanting either more or less of his themes. He rather heavy-handedly explores death and life through dialogue that sounds like nothing anyone would ever say (I didn't mind that aspect of it-again, it adds to the surreal nature of everything), yet repeatedly touches on consumerism but never does anything with it. I would have liked a little more development. I read WHITE NOISE because it was on some list of the top 100 contemporary novels. I'm not sure I would give it that. But it is good.	2005-01-25
US	50234666	RKFHPZQ4MORNN	1932416137	91571388	How We Are Hungry: Stories	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	Great writing, interesting characters, occasional plots	Eggers's first book, A HEARTBREAKING WORK OF STAGGERING GENIUS, was amazing (although I've talked to several people about it and nobody can really remember what the story is about-it's just great style). His second book wasn't as fresh, mostly because the style was no longer new.<br /><br />This, his third book, a collection of short stories, reads more like a collection of ideas that never grew up to be bigger. Some, only a page or two long, never even made it to short-storyhood. His writing is fantastic, but I felt like, for most of the stories, I was reading about him or someone he knows. The characters are interesting, but all tend to act and sound the same. His stories have a bit of desperate sadness to them, but they never really go anywhere. Sometimes this is nice. Other times it would be nice to go somewhere with these interesting people. I was a little disappointed that my favorite story in the book is one I read years ago in a short story anthology. It's a great story told from the point of view of a dog. Perhaps I'm being unfair to expect to be blown away by everything Eggar's writes,  but there are so many fantastic lines, brilliant descriptions and details laced throughout his stories that I want the stories themselves to be as good.	2004-12-10
US	50234666	R2LTQCHNZKGDWM	0395974690	481440098	The Edna Webster Collection of Undiscovered Writings	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Good Insight Into the Man's Writing, Not All Good Writing	When Brautigan was 21, before he moved to San Francisco to find fame, he gave a stack of poems and stories to Edna Webster, the mother of his girlfriend. This is it. They're not Brautigan's best. They were just his first. Many of them are actually quite bad. That said, there are a few gems in here. You're more likely to find a brilliant line here or there than an entirely brilliant poem. But as a Brautigan fan, it's interesting to see him finding his voice even at such a young age. If you're looking for consistently good poetry, or good Brautigan poetry, you should look elsewhere. If, however, you're like me and have read every Brautigan you can find and are as interested in the man as his writing, this is an interesting read.<br /><br />As to the paging controversy, I have to say that undiscovered or not, these poems would read better if they were each given their own page. If nothing else, so I can feel like the poem's over and I can think about it before the next one's there, ready to be read. This layout just seems sloppy to me. But to each his own.	2004-11-30
US	50234666	R22BC0SJ6IW5DO	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Simply fantastic.	I have only read a handful of books about war, fiction or non-fiction, and maybe two or three about the Viet Nam war, but this collection of stories is by far the best. It's simply fantastic. O'Brien writes with a voice that is both powerful and invisible. He lets the stories tell themselves, but often talks about the stories, as stories, in a kind of behind-the-scenes look. Himself a vet,  O'Brien makes it clear that he is still dealing with his own demons, that writing this collection of stories is part of his therapy, and you can literally see the demons take shape as each story unfolds. Every story examines a part of his Viet Nam experience from a different angle, often from a different character's point of view, and although this is a collection of short stories, he so adroitly weaves elements and themes that it holds together as a cohesive work with power greater than any of the stories taken individually. I would recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn more about (a) war-it shows war in a whole new light, an impressive feat considering the body of work on the topic, (b) writing-it illustrates better than anything I have read how a writer should \\"write what they know,\\" meaning start with their own personal experience and invent from there,  or (c)  just the human condition-life, death, and how we cope.	2004-11-28
US	50234666	RJY8FZ7GFIOIJ	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Could have been funnier, but really good nonetheless	Jesus was a kung fu master. He traveled extensively throughout Asia. He befriended the Yeti (a.k.a. abominable snowman) actively fought demons, taught yoga to an elephant, and spent years living on a cliff face as an ascetic in India. And his middle name, the \\"H\\" in \\"Jesus H. Christ,\\" stands for Hallowed, not Harvey as rumored.<br /><br />These facts appear in the newest of the gospels. The one according to Levi, who is called Biff. Biff was Jesus's best friend growing up. He was left out of the Gospels because he does something late in the book which doesn't sit well with some folks (although Biff is certain it's because the other disciples were jealous). He's a bit of a punk. A foul-mouthed loudmouth. And, like any teenage boy, a horny bastard. But he's always looking out for the Son of God, and he usually has good intentions. Biff has been resurrected in modern times by an angel to tell the story that was left out of the Gospels-namely, the first 30 years of Jesus's life.<br /><br />In concept, this book is hilarious. At times, the humor is a little heavy-handed for my taste. The dialogue gets a bit too punchy at times, and the characters are a little too goofy in some scenes. And the fact that it's Jesus makes the jokes pretty easy. Because blasphemy is funny, even if it's just imagining someone else getting offended. The Savior calling his apostles \\"the dumbest sons of bitches to ever walk the earth\\" is hilarious, right? Moore's humor is more potent when it has a purpose, when he uses it to make an interesting point, which he sometimes does.<br /><br />Moore made the conscious decision to keep this story very light. It never takes itself very seriously. It's not what he thought did happen. It's more like, hey, wouldn't it be funny if... By doing this, he sacrifices some of the emotion you might otherwise feel for the characters. There were times when I thought being more true to the character of Jesus that we all know would have made the story more genuine and the humor even funnier as a result. Still, by the end of the book, you can't help but like Biff and feel for the loss of his friend. And overall, Lamb is a good, fast, funny read.ne and the humor even funnier as a result. Still, by the end of the book, you can't help but like Biff and feel for the loss of his friend. And overall, Lamb is a good, fast, funny read.	2004-11-24
US	50234666	R38MKDDGXXRL8B	1570627401	25756088	A Brief History of Everything	Books	4	24	29	N	N	A convincing call for  global well-roundedness	This is the first Ken Wilber book I have read. I got halfway through A Theory of Everything and realized I should have read this first. So I did.<br /><br /> Wilber is a prolific and uniquely American philosopher who has written extensively on his developing Theory of Everything. Unlike other all-encompassing scientific theories (systems theory, string theory, m-theory, etc), Wilber's philosophy encompasses thought and spirituality as well. In fact, Wilber's central point is that our modern mode of thinking unfortunately focuses solely on provable, measurable science, ignoring the spiritual and emotional internal aspects of individuals and of society. We are living in a state of what he calls \\"flatland.\\" This book is basically a call to global well-roundedness in thought.<br /><br /> This is probably the most challenging book I've read in a long time. I have never read anything like it. Wilber's theory fascinating. It joins many of the great philosophies, sciences, and spiritual beliefs and shows how they can live in accord rather than at odds with one another.  It traces our development as humans using aspects of developmental psychology, and examines the evolution of our thought from a historical perspective.<br /><br /> As an attempt to incorporate all modes of thought-psychological, scientific, philosophical, religious, etc.-this is a fantastic book. Several of the reviews I've read criticize Wilber for his inability to scientifically prove his theory. But that criticism is missing one of the main points of his theory-namely that science is only one aspect of thought, only one facet of our world. Not everything can be proven through science. Love,  sorrow, joy, humor-these things are not measurable with instruments. There is definite moral right and wrong (e.g. Nazis wrong) that can't be proven with science. And Wilber's point is that science can't be used to prove things of a spiritual nature any more than prayer could be used to calculate the boiling point of water. For an individual and a world to be healthy, it must operate and evolve in all quadrants, not just one. It must break out of this \\"flatland\\" approach.<br /><br /> My biggest criticisms of A Brief History of Everything are of style more than content. The book is set up as a dialogue between a questioner and answerer. Why this was done is beyond me, and it actually became very annoying. It's a technique a writer might use to help flush out his thoughts, but there's no need for the questions to be included in the final draft.<br /><br /> My other criticism is that, although Wilber's philosophy is not New Age, the terms he uses to describe his concepts have that flavor. He often makes up several words which mean the same thing and unnecessarily uses them interchangeably. It gets a tad confusing at times. And Wilbur has a tendency to end his chapters with a flurry of this language in an overly dramatic way that seems more like bad New Age poetry than anything else. It detracts from his otherwise brilliant theory.iling point of water. For an individual and a world to be healthy, it must operate and evolve in all quadrants, not just one. It must break out of this \\"flatland\\" approach. <br /> <br /> My biggest criticisms of A Brief History of Everything are of style more than content. The book is set up as a dialogue between a questioner and answerer. Why this was done is beyond me, and it actually became very annoying. It's a technique a writer might use to help flush out his thoughts, but there's no need for the questions to be included in the final draft.  <br /> <br /> My other criticism is that, although Wilber's philosophy is not New Age, the terms he uses to describe his concepts have that flavor. He often makes up several words which mean the same thing and unnecessarily uses them interchangeably. It gets a tad confusing at times. And Wilbur has a tendency to end his chapters with a flurry of this language in an overly dramatic way that seems more like bad New Age poetry than anything else. It detracts from his otherwise brilliant theory.	2004-11-18
US	50234666	R1KZDZRATUX0XL	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Quite a ride	That this book is considered a literary classic is probably due more to its utter uniqueness for its time period than its literary merit. I realized halfway through, and Burroughs says it in the \\"Atrophied Preface,\\" that you can pick this book up, start at any page in it, and not lose any of its narrative. That should tell you something about the narrative, or lack thereof. As for the imagery, it is perhaps some of the most vile, violent, grotesque depictions of hell or nightmare I have ever read. Parts of it made me physically queasy. In that regard, it is a powerful book and I applaud Burroughs' abilities. At the same time, though, I admit I enjoyed very little of this book. Working in a creative profession, I've been warned more than once about getting drunk or high and expecting it to enhance my creative output. I've tried it, and the best I've ever written drunk is hardly coherent sober. That's how I felt about much of Naked Lunch. When a master of Burroughs' obvious literary talent shoots up and then spills his head onto the page, there are bound to be moments of brilliance and depth. But as a whole, perhaps I would have enjoyed reading this more had I not been completely sober.	2004-10-27
US	50234666	RZNU3B5Q2XW2B	0312423799	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A very good read.	Burroughs is better known for his bestselling Running with Scissors. He's a funny writer. Dry. Sarcastic, with a smart, crisp style. He's also a former advertising guy, which is partly why I read this book. Being an ad guy myself, I thought it would be chock full of ad characters I could relate to and laugh at. \\"Ha! I know that moron! He's just like that!\\" But it wasn't so much about advertising. It was about Burroughs fight with his alcoholism. It's a true story. It takes you from his initial days of rehab through his recovery, temptations, lapses, and paints it all very vividly. He also pulls off some great emotional scenes without being overly sentimental or sappy. I was expecting more laugh-out-loud humor, but I was happily surprised by how much cared about the people in Burroughs' life, how much I sympathized with him, and how much I appreciated his honesty and openness. Reading Dry, you get the feeling that he holds absolutely nothing back. And partly because of that, he's a very likable narrator.	2004-09-16
US	50234666	R35NM7J6O7O7SM	0743233212	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Pushes the bounds of believability, hilariously.	This is a humorous account of Ronson's several years spent with various extremist groups, from Islamic radicals to the KKK. Ronson's a British journalist, and he plays it so straight that at times I couldn't tell if he was making fun of a person, agreeing with them, or just getting out of the way to let them hang themselves. I was expecting more laughs from this book. There were some hilarious parts,  particularly when the logistics of extremism come into play-At a cross burning, KKK novices wonder if they should douse the cross, then raise it, or raise it then douse it? And an Islamic Fundamentalist hatches a plot to release thousands of mice into the U.N. But for the most part, it was just a well-written account of the personal side of extremism. There's a pretty moving bit about the standoff and subsequent shooting of a mother and her son by the FBI at Ruby Ridge.<br /><br />It was interesting to see the politics of extremism, how people whose views aren't that radical are lumped in with other radicals and labeled extremist by the media in an effort to sensationalize and polarize. It was also interesting how Ronson thematically tied the book together-all these extremists, from different parts of the world, all believe in a ruling elite that pulls the strings that make things happen. They don't necessarily agree on who this elite is-politicians, Jews, or a race of 12-foot lizard people (seriously)-but they agree that these secret rulers exist.  I've got to hand it to Ronson-he's got some balls. Not only does he, a Jew, hang out with Muslim extremists and the KKK, he infiltrates a neo-nazi skinhead group and sneaks into a secret ceremony of the world's elite in which they hold a mock sacrifice and dance around in druidic robes. This last part is so bizarre but is delivered in such a straight way that I began to question if the whole book wasn't a hoax. A sort of mockumentary. But it's not.	2004-09-16
US	50234666	R202XE7EHL8MDL	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Fascinating case study of fundamentalist religion	When I first saw this book in the bookstore, I thought it was about the Taliban because of the title, and from the image on the cover-rugged red mountain peaks. I was surprised to see that it was a book about fundamentalism, but fundamentalism in America, in the Mormon Church. Krakauer, known as an adventure travel writer, tells the story of the murders of a woman in Utah and her infant son by her two brother-in-laws, who claim to have been instructed by God to commit the murders. Krakauer examines the history behind this crime, both the history of the brothers and the history of the Mormon Church. While the story of the murders themselves reads a little like a true-life crime drama, the history of the church is a fascinating look at a religious phenomenon. Not only is Mormonism one of the fastest growing religions, but it was born less than two hundred years ago. While most ancient religions have the benefit of being \\"cleaned up\\" over thousands of years of writing and re-writing their history and myths, the Mormon prophets, most notably Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, existed in a time of newspapers, affidavits, police records, etc., so the story of their lives, the good and the bad, are readily available. Krakauer makes this point well. And while the beliefs of Mormonism and the prophets they believe in may seem strange to non-Mormons, and while the history of the founding of the Mormon faith seems particularly bloody and violent, it is actually very similar to other major religions. But Mormonism differs slightly is that any member of its church can speak directly to God. Because of this, there have been a great many Mormons who have received \\"revelations\\" that differed from mainstream Mormon teachings and have thus broken off to form their own fundamentalist branch of Mormonism.<br /><br />Historically, the most debatable issue in the Mormon Church, and thus the one responsible for the most schisms, has been the issue of polygamy, or \\"spiritual wivery\\" as the fundamentalists refer to it. It was from one of the more fanatical fundamentalist branches that the brothers in this book formed their belief system which eventually led them to murder. Overall, this was a fascinating look at the history of the Mormon Church and the nature of fundamentalist religions and religious fanaticism. Krakauer's delivery sometimes crossed the lines of objectivity and I would have liked more exploration into the nature of religious belief in general, but as a story I thought this held together pretty well.fundamentalists refer to it. It was from one of the more fanatical fundamentalist branches that the brothers in this book formed their belief system which eventually led them to murder. Overall, this was a fascinating look at the history of the Mormon Church and the nature of fundamentalist religions and religious fanaticism. Krakauer's delivery sometimes crossed the lines of objectivity and I would have liked more exploration into the nature of religious belief in general, but as a story I thought this held together pretty well.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R1QXHLEWR0C0QU	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Fascinating	This is a fascinating examination of social epidemics and what causes them. Gladwell takes several interesting case studies of social epidemics from the past fifty years or so-everything from teen smoking in the U.S. to a teen suicide epidemic in Micronesia to Sesame Street-and dissects them to illustrate the types of people necessary to start an epidemic, the environmental factors that contribute to the start or stop of an epidemic, and the nature of the epidemics themselves. The \\"tipping point\\" the title refers to is the point at which the epidemic in question takes on a life of its own and \\"tips,\\" or spreads without encouragement. For some things, the tipping point is what causes an idea or behavior to spread. For others, it is what causes people to stop thinking or behaving a certain way. But Gladwell's point, which he makes very well throughout the book, is that tipping points are usually small, non-instictive things. This is a great book for anyone interested in marketing, trends, group think, or just what makes societies tick.<br /><br />I also found Malcolm Gladwell's website, gladwell.com, which has his New Yorker articles, to be have some really interesting stuff.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R3SWKJ8SZ05EKL	0345433017	32508504	Creepy Susie: And 13 Other Tragic Tales for Troubled Children	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Delightfully Dark and Disturbing	Any fan of Edward Gorey's morbid comics will like this dark (and I mean dark) illustrated book of children's tales. Most start out like slightly twisted fairy tales. Simple storyline. Obvious moral. Then they take a twist that usually ends up with someone dead, typically by dismemberment. The only negative reviews on Amazon are \\"In the age of Columbine...simply sick!\\" and go on to criticize it for encouraging kids to kill other kids. Sick, true. But this book is obviously not for 12-year-olds, but reasonable adults with a dark sense of humor. I liked it.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R38760BBLYJSCY	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Under the circumstances...	This book is one of those classics you've never heard of. It won the Pulitzer Prize in 1958. I've had it on my shelf for a while. I probably would have had a completely different perspective on it had I read it six months ago. Recently, one of my best friends  died in a freak bike accident. I'm not sure what made me decide to read this book now-if I was looking for insight, answers, or just trying to relive it again. I definitely relived it. I suppose anyone who has ever lost a loved one suddenly could relate to many parts of this story. But for me, the book was eerily similar to my own experience. It's about a man, Jay Follett, a father of two, who dies one night in a car crash. Through the eyes of Jay's wife, his son, and his brother, Agee paints an incredibly moving picture of a family struggling under the weight of Jay's death. By switching views, he blends innocence, anger, tenderness, and love in a way that, somehow, conveys all these emotions at once. I feel like I lived this story two months ago, and everything about it rang true to me. There were no answers to help explain anything, but this book is a beautiful articulation of what it's like to suddenly have life turned inside out in the worst way. And the opening chapter is one of the most touching I have ever read.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R1UZ2DOA4TZBP3	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	1	702	1124	N	N	Ugh.	WARNING-- PLOT POINTS GIVEN AWAY. IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK YET, YOU MAY NOT WANT TO READ THIS REVIEW.<br /><br />Oh boy. What to say about this one. How about, first, that it's 1070 pages long. I was reading it on the train one day, and a guy leaned over and said, \\"That is really small type.\\" This is Rand's opus, the culmination of her philosophy, Objectivism. I can picture her, after the success of The Fountainhead, walking into her publisher and saying, \\"Here it is. Don't cut any of it. Publish it just like this or not at all.\\" Included in this 1070 pages, about 950 pages in, as the climax, is a FIFTY PAGE speech by the hero about the evils of socialism. It reads more like a bad thesis at that point. Here's a sentence: \\"Swinging like a helpless branch in the wind of an uncharted moral wilderness, you dare not fully to be evil, or fully to live.\\" Now imagine that for fifty pages. I was furious at that point. The arrogance of something like that... Get off it. Please.<br /><br />Basically, her philosophy boils down to a justification for selfishness. Her characters are static, the \\"heroes\\" extol her philosophy in dragging, unrealistic monologues, and the \\"villains\\" are so unbelievably evil and stupid that they're little more than paper targets. I really liked the story early on. I was into it for the first 700 pages or so. I liked the characters, thought they were admirable and heroic. I liked the arguments between people, the clashes of logic and intelligent debates. But the more I understood her philosophy, the more I despised the book. The only character I thought was moral ends up losing his mind, sobbing on a railroad track in the end. But then again, he wasn't moral according to Objectivism, because he was actually a loyal, caring, kind man.<br /><br />As for the plot: Basically, as America's leaders turn to Socialism, a group of America's greatest thinkers withdraw themselves to a hidden Utopia, refusing to have their genius taken advantage of by the \\"looters.\\" One by one they vanish from society to join this Utopia, until in the end only one is left. The thing that kept me reading was to see whether or not this last person was going to give up and vanish like the others (which I equated to a kind of suicide) or fight against the government. I won't ruin it, but I was not happy with the ending. Oh, and get this. In order to get into this Utopia, you have to vow: \\"I swear that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another to live for mine.\\" Basically, any kind of Good Samaritanism, Christian moral values (or pick any religion, except maybe Scientology), are in complete opposition to the ideals of Objectivism. Yeah. Sounds like a great way to build a better world. Every genius for himself.<br /><br />A word of warning in reading the reviews. This book topped a \\"Reader's List\\" alternative to the National Library's list of the top 100 books. Also atop that list were other Ayn Rand books and a bunch of L. Ron Hubbard books. That might tell you something about the slanted reviews you'll get about this book. Although believers in Objectivism don't strike me as the same cultists as Scientologists, there is certainly an element of belief that everything Ayn Rand ever wrote was genius scripture. It's not. From a literary viewpoint, or a philosophical one. So when this book averages 4 stars, take it for what it's worth.vanish from society to join this Utopia, until in the end only one is left. The thing that kept me reading was to see whether or not this last person was going to give up and vanish like the others (which I equated to a kind of suicide) or fight against the government. I won't ruin it, but I was not happy with the ending. Oh, and get this. In order to get into this Utopia, you have to vow: \\"I swear that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another to live for mine.\\" Basically, any kind of Good Samaritanism, Christian moral values (or pick any religion, except maybe Scientology), are in complete opposition to the ideals of Objectivism. Yeah. Sounds like a great way to build a better world. Every genius for himself.     A word of warning in reading the reviews. This book topped a \\"Reader's List\\" alternative to the National Library's list of the top 100 books. Also atop that list were other Ayn Rand books and a bunch of L. Ron Hubbard books. That might tell you something about the slanted reviews you'll get about this book. Although believers in Objectivism don't strike me as the same cultists as Scientologists, there is certainly an element of belief that everything Ayn Rand ever wrote was genius scripture. It's not. From a literary viewpoint, or a philosophical one. So when this book averages 4 stars, take it for what it's worth.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R1LTVBEQC37CDI	1890447048	10912282	Actual Air	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Very cool.	I like poetry, but I don't really know where to look for the kind of poetry I like. So when a friend recommended this book, I picked it up. Really cool poems. Simple, insightful, sometimes funny, sometimes moving. A few of the poems floated into the clouds a bit for me, but most were totally cool.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R3II0X8GZS69XJ	0316473049	1677156	The Pugilist at Rest: Stories	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A great find	This is a critically acclaimed collection of short stories from a writer many people put near the top of the list of great living writers. It starts off with three Viet Nam stories, then eight other stories. Many of the characters and themes repeat-Viet Nam vets,  boxers, epilepsy, philosophy. The stories are raw and the characters are intense, violent, very flawed heroes. Online, the majority of the criticism about the stories is that they exude a stereotypical machismo. I thought the opposite. I thought the machismo was very unstereotypical. I can't think of anyone I've read about who would break your face and then contemplate Schopenhauer. There was one story, about a woman dying, that I thought was a bit melo-dramatic, but most of the stories were quick, hard-hitting, and insightful.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	RYF272Y7CB1FI	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not quite Salinger, but a good read nonetheless	This is a modern Catcher in the Rye. A coming-of-age story about a confused but empathetic young man. The story is told as a series of letters from Charlie, a socially inept and emotionally distraught freshman in high school, to an unnamed person somehow linked to a character in the novel. It doesn't say who that person is, and I never figured it out.<br /><br />Although Charlie has more severe emotional issues than Holden Caulfield, and although his thoughts are more explicit and leave less for the reader to figure out in terms of theme, I thoroughly enjoyed both the story and the character. It took me back to my high school days and I found myself remembering all of my foibles and follies as I read about Charlie's. My only complaint is that the emotion of the kids in the book seemed to be a bit too public. It seems someone is crying in every chapter. I don't remember that being the case in high school. To the contrary, one of the most difficult aspects of high school is dealing with these welling emotions while trying NOT to just burst out in tears because...well, that's just not cool.<br /><br />Walflower won't ever be the classic that Catcher in the Rye is, but it's a great read nonetheless.	2004-09-15
US	50234666	R1FY8KEPP41K8E	0571146333	78909561	Lake Wobegon Days (Lake Wobegon Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	If you love the radio program, you'll like this.	I'm a huge fan of Keillor's Wobegon radio stuff, and the stories here were mostly as good as the ones on the radio. But it loses a little not being read by him. His voice is so good and his story-telling so engaging, I missed that a little. But being familiar with his voice, I could \\"hear\\" him reading it anyway.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2OH4N89FNZ9PF	0618118780	622997083	The Best American Travel Writing 2001	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Some great ones.	What is there to add here? It's the best from last year. Some of the essays were about things I didn't care about, like a tedious thing on wine, but I just skipped those. The ones I was into, I was really into.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R3U7CZ6YQYOAME	068485970X	177919765	An OCEAN IN IOWA: A NOVEL	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Charming.	From the author of What's Eating Gilbert Grape, one of my favorite books, this is a story of a year in the life of a 7-year-old. Although it's 3rd person, it's told from his POV, and we understand more of what's going on than he does. A light read, it has its poignant moments. It's also a good one to read out loud to somebody, if you're so inclined. Charming overall. Most admirable is Hedges ability to tell a compelling story from a child's POV without lapsing into child-isms.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	RWTXFVRYGVUXO	0395500761	84629820	Richard Brautigan's Trout Fishing in America, The Pill Versus the Springhill Mine Disaster, and In Watermelon Sugar	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	The Brautigan to start with	This is one of three collections of re-released Brautigan. It's the best of the three. TROUT FISHING is his classic. It's unlike anything I've ever read. I felt like someone showed me a new way to use words. A reviewer suggested calling his works \\"Brautigans,\\" as they're an original artform.<br /><br />IN WATERMELON SUGAR is my favorite of the eight or so Brautigan's I've read. At once funny, touching, nostalgic, smart, insightful...good stuff.<br /><br />And THE PILL VS THE SPRING HILL MINE DISASTER is a collection of his poems. To have a collection of his poetry thrown in here with these two fantastic books is just icing on the cake.<br /><br />Brautigan has been called the last of the Beats. Perhaps he killed the Beat movement by pushing it as far as it would go.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	RDN5K151BYO4K	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Unless you've read all of Irving's other stuff...	Irving's my favorite, and I read everything he writes as soon as it's out, but this was a little of a disappointment. I didn't feel the same connection to the characters that I normally do, and the prose was much lighter and faster than his better books. This was widely panned by critics, and although I didn't dislike it, it wasn't my favorite.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R3I0SJOKOYNEV	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Angry but convincing	A \\"What's wrong with things\\" book from the founder of Adbusters. Lasn's a radical, and has some radical views, but a lot of them make a lot of sense. He's more angry than someone like Wendell Berry, but his examples are more concrete. When I finished this, I felt like I needed to go do something. Very good.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2LZ0JLXLOJMRK	0553574574	956782258	Beach Music	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Ehh, not my cup of tea.	Conroy's a bit too emotional for my taste and he tends to overwrite. I enjoyed The Great Santini a lot, but this one didn't do much for me. There's one chapter, when a few teenagers get stranded at sea on a motorboat, that's great. And his portrayal of southern life is cool, but I wasn't crazy about this one overall.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R1DYBH6O0M3OUU	067977548X	523607559	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting read, just wanted more of a conclusion.	Basically a book on speed. Some of the facts were fascinating, especially when it got into the lengths we go to as a society to do things faster and be more efficient. I was hoping for a little more on the negative psychological aspects of this kind of mindset though. Still, pretty good.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	RHKKI6GHZR76L	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Not bad, but not his best.	Bryson's one of my favorite travel writers. Hilarious. A Walk in the Woods is my favorite of his. This one is about his travels around small-town America, which isn't as interesting for someone who knows what small-town America is like. And I thought Bryson's sarcasm was a little snotty and mean in places, but pretty enjoyable.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R20YDSELMVKUN4	0865474370	815189517	What Are People For?: Essays	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A good argument for a return to our roots	Berry is a highly-respected environmental writer who advocates a move back to smaller communities more closely tied to the land. This is a collection of his essays. They are good, although I enjoyed his book Sex, Economy, Freedom, & Community better because it was more of a cohesive unit.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2MYS7EJEAG7XZ	0375706917	4435858	For Common Things: Irony, Trust and Commitment in America Today	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Something to think about	A good look at the state of our communities and how the deterioration of the traditional community has led to a lack of responsibility when it comes to the use of our natural resources. An important book. It opened me up to some new ideas about what we're doing.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R8RS1JHASFU6C	0684853868	896219190	The Last Picture Show (Thalia)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fantastic novel.	I disagree with the readers who thought McMurtry's characters are flat and undeveloped. Part of the beauty of this novel is that everything in it works to convey the listlessness of these high schoolers. They're bored, lonely, lost souls looking for something to fill the void. And you feel their aching melancholy throughout the whole of this short but powerfully deep novel.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R28KZRYLG90I9N	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	I hated the Civil War in history class	A narrative account of the battle of Gettysburg. Anyone who likes Civil War history or, like me, thinks they should know at least something about the war, should read this. Shows the battle from the point of view of the generals involved on both sides. The only thing I would have liked more was a little broader perspective at times -- like why they were fighting, what was going on politically, etc. A good read though.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	RTCP3GDCQEU75	0316925195	200852558	Brief Interviews with Hideous Men	Books	2	18	30	N	N	Ick. Not for me.	Supposed to be great. Critics loved it. So original. I thought it was boring and annoying. A collection of short stories about unlikable people, a lot of gibberish that was intentionally unintelligible. Which is fine for a while, but an entire book is too much. I really disliked it. I applaud any attempt to do something completely different, so I give it two stars instead of one, but jabbing knitting needles into my eye sockets would be different too, and I wouldn't like that much either.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R1DVA976NOT1BI	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you haven't read it since high school, read it again.	Never read it in high school. I'm glad because I don't think I would have enjoyed it as much. Perhaps the best ending of a book as I have ever read. Seriously almost made me cry, which a book has never done. Guess that's why it's a classic.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R1CM4YSRF6FRDP	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Fantastic	Possibly one of my top five all-time. A fresh voice, an engaging non-story, and although Eggars gets a little annoying sometimes, it's endearing. He wrote everything in this book, including the legal type in the front. It's snarky, wholly irreverent, and wonderful. I want to write something as original.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2PZ1XKQWA3OAT	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Is there a need to review this?	It tops more than one list of the greatest novels of all time. Sure, it's subjective, but everyone should read this book. I somehow didn't read it in high school, so I picked it up recently. It's great. And the movie with Robert Redford did a nice job of adapting it too.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2HE3ZRP6IS3MR	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Believe the hype.	All the hype got to me. It's good, for all the reasons everyone else says.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R1RRPX1E4D3R4A	0140481346	826622434	Death of a Salesman (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you're going to read one play...	An excellent one-sitting read. Since it's a play, it's a great place to go if you're looking for some good dialogue. Too bad movie dialogue can't all be this good.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R24M2ZZ3K0V3PL	0486268705	167266492	Dubliners (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great craft, but not so enjoyable to read	Had to read this for a class. Although Joyce is the master, and using this book as a text for study was helpful in my fiction writing, I have never been a big fan of Joyce from a enjoyment standpoint. To me, it's like watching Citizen Kane for a film class. A masterpiece, but I probably wouldn't want to read it again.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2QCKYIY23ZHG8	0141001682	928062715	Life Is So Good: One Man's Extraordinary Journey through the 20th Century and How he Learned to Read at Age 98	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Inspiring.	Similar to a Studs Terkel, only this whole book is by a 101-year-old African-American man, who learned to read at 98 (the book is co-authored and polished by Richard Glaubman, but it's Dawson's voice). Dawson's simple optimism is inspiring, especially in our cynical day and age. Demonstrates that whether a person's situation is good or bad depends more on his attitude than his actual environment. It's also inspiring to hear from someone who lived to see so much change. So often we ignore the voices of the elderly when it's those voices that have the most wisdom to offer.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R1W82W5DHDUOUH	038524939X	464201098	The Way to Love: The Last Meditations of Anthony de Mello (Image Pocket Classics)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Pocket-size perspective	A friend sent this book to me when I finished grad school, along with a note: \\"Upon discovering the complicated & ugly muck of the world, one of my first questions was 'what now?' This book helped.\\" It's the meditations of a Jesuit priest, who is surprisingly concrete in his examples of things from life that pull us down or stress us out, and a new way to think of them. I read a chapter a night before bed, and it gave me a lot to think about, and a lot of perspective. Helped me realize what's important and what's not so. Helped me deal with things, some small, some bigger.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R3UIULZA109SHN	0590353403	400589274	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Believe the hype.	All the hype got to me. It's good, for all the reasons everyone else says.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R2O8011LU9JGGT	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An easy read, but not simple.	Steinbeck's writing style is fantastic, and this story lends itself to dicussion in high school classes. It's not overly complex, but the issues raised are limitlessly debatable. I didn't enjoy it quite as much as GRAPES OF WRATH because MICE doesn't have the same epic feel, but still it's a fantastic book that everyone should read at least once.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R268K1WKQS4VD	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Milk out your nose.	Hilarious. I see people reading this on the subway, and I watch for the smile. It always comes. Laugh-out-loud essays on everything from speaking German to turds. A little crass at times, but that never bothered me much. Maybe the funniest book I've ever read.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R3NG1XX0GRL0AD	1565843657	491475825	My American Century	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wisdom from people you will never know.	A collection of interviews from Terkel's other books. A lot of normal people from all walks of life in our century talking about their points of views on various things. Very cool stuff. Just goes to show that everyone, no matter where they're from or what they do or how much education they have, has a story and some wisdom to share.	2004-09-14
US	50234666	R3KWZDMDKTVELS	157322829X	908876211	Coercion: Why We Listen to What "They" Say	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Scary.	This is one of those books that is at once fascinating, horrifying, thought-provoking, and makes me want to have nothing to do with advertising. It covers all kinds of methods people use to coerce others, from car salespeople to marketers and copywriters. An interesting read.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R3CN65K2VXW269	0877733759	725531037	Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Ugh. Too hokey.	I've read a fair amount of books on writing. I know this one is considered a \\"classic\\" in the genre, but I didn't care for it. It has some good practical advice. Nothing I haven't heard or read elsewhere, but good reminders nonetheless. But what I'll probably remember about this book is the flakiness of Goldberg, who insists on referring to her Zen training in every chapter. Enough about Katagiri Roshi and your meditations already. I'm sure they're wonderful for you. And the chapter that starts, \\"There were several time in Taos that I called a story-telling circle,\\" makes me want to rip the page out and eat it. Try BIRD BY BIRD or even STEPHEN KING'S ON WRITING before this one.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R1AWA0UDQ4W5Q3	0140282777	569271944	Big Fish: A Novel of Mythic Proportions	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A good read.	I read this book because I heard Tim Burton was directing the movie. If I hadn't known he was directing it, I would never have picked him for it. This book is far from a typical Tim Burton story-there's very little darkness, certainly nothing macabre. This short novel is the story of a dying man told through the eyes of his son. A tall tale. The book illustrates well the warped (often in a good way) perception sons have of their fathers-as mythic heroes. The book is basically a collection of fantastic incidents, the myths of the father's life. Breaking up these chapters are several versions of the actual death of the father, which the son writes and re-writes. It's in these chapters that you get to know the complicated feelings of the son toward a father who was never completely straight, always hiding behind jokes and fables. It's a good, touching story. Read it before you see the movie if you can, but it's worthwhile afterward too.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R1D6GBHOA0RULO	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous.	It takes a little bit to get into this one. I know a few people who read a couple chapters then quit, and they're missing out. This is seriously one of the best books I've read in a long time. Maybe one of my top ten. A fun, gut-wrenching, funny, sad, insightful, moving, well-written story about a Muslim-Christian-Hindu Indian boy stranded on a life raft with a tiger for eight months at sea. How exactly that happens is part of the fun of the novel, so I won't spoil it. I'll just say that the narrator is instantly likable. He reminds me of Richard Halliburton (if you like travel writing, check him out), with an enthusiasm and love for everything. An enthusiasm that makes you want to love everything. And the argument the book makes for religion is wonderful without being preachy. Great great great.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R18AH9GXSZ8D6V	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Obvious why it's a classic	I think I'm the only person who didn't read this in high school. I don't know why, but I was expecting a boring, plodding story. To the contrary, this is a quick, fun, easy read. Telling the story through the innocent eyes of a young girl perfectly points out the corruption and backwards views in the small southern town without judging it. I also thought it was in some way encouraging to know that Lee wrote this one book, the classic it is, and nothing else.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R7VVY6BQU15V3	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A tough read.	I probably wasn't in the mood to read such a tough book. It was good. It starts out with two people falling through the air, talking to each other. There are a bunch of memorable scenes, and the writing and imagery is great. I just wasn't in the mood to figure out or look up all the symbolism, and I don't know enough about Islam to catch the parallels, other than realizing that there were parallels and symbols laced throughout. This would have been a better book to read with the guidance of a lit professor or reader's guide.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R3VCSKY9R0E78R	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gets better the longer you let it sit	There's something about great books. They grow on you after you've finished reading them. The details fade and with the okay books, you start to forget about them altogether. But the great ones grow, and you continue to care for the characters and the story. That's how this book was to me. Reading it, I have to admit I was a little let down. I thought maybe it was over-hyped. I wanted more amazement, more adventure. I wanted more outlandish turns. I wanted the characters to be more likable. But at the end, when I finished it, I think I got everything I wanted. And even after 600+ pages, I wanted 400 more. And that, to me, is the sign of a good book.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	REGO0ROSH2AR8	0316543381	115911077	The Village: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Great style, good story	This is the first novel by Mamet, one of America's best playwrights, and a good screenwriter. It has a lot in common with Sherwood Anderson's Winesburg, Ohio, which is one of my favorite books. The Village delivers a slice of life in a quiet, anonymous village somewhere in the eastern U.S. The chapters jump around from person to person, playing out how their lives intertwine. Mamet's writing is fascinating. His dialogue is masterful, giving the reader just enough to get the gist of what someone says. Likewise, his narration is distant, noticeably so in many parts. He often goes through most of a chapter referring to a person as \\"The Man\\" or \\"The Soldier,\\" giving the novel an everyman quality, but also driving home the theme of the book: that even a small town, where everyone knows everyone else by name, can be a very lonely place. Overall, I didn't like The Village as much as Winesburg, but it left me with the same calm, melancholy feeling. A good and, from a writing craft standpoint, educational read.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R2YNPHCLMWJL46	0393319873	372191144	The Corrosion of Character: The Personal Consequences of Work in the New Capitalism	Books	4	6	6	N	N	For anyone who works in a large corporation	I thought this book would be interesting, but I didn't think it would be as relevant to my own career as it turned out to be. Sennett examines the new model of businesses, that of loose networks and short-term assignments, and the effect it has on the psyche of the everyday in-the-trenches worker, everyone from plant workers to middle management. He documents the shift from the corporate family model (the old 1950s \\"company man\\" ideal) to the new mercenary, hired hand mentality. The basic theory Sennett proposes is that we need a continuous narrative in our lives. We need to believe that we are progressing, that we accumulate experience and are moving toward successful careers. But with the new economy, there is no narrative. Corporations have a \\"What have you done for me lately?\\" mentality. Past successes are less important. Employees work in makeshift teams, per assignment, and individual responsibility becomes nebulous. Our narratives are disjointed, more like a collection of short stories than the novel we want.  The only thing I didn't agree with was Sennett's conclusion that the biggest negative effect of this displacement is that it bruises our egos and encourages us to withdraw. I think the greater consequence is our uncertainty, which breeds fear and leads to anger and bitterness.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R1ZT3T2X1UXLBC	0060520132	815416301	Things You Should Know: A Collection of Stories	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Some good stuff, but not her best.	As is usually the case with Homes, these stories focus on discontented suburbanites. Mostly weaker men, stronger women. Some very good, if tough to read stories. As always, Homes's writing is quick-hitting. Especially as she deals with more serious topics: a husband and wife couple in which the woman's cancer is exposing the weaknesses in their relationship, the story of a man who hits and kills a kid with his car, and a story about Nancy and Ronald Reagan and dealing with his Alzheimer's. Overall, the stories were less outrageous than some of her other stuff, and several of them seemed to end with punch lines, which I didn't care for. But pretty good stuff otherwise.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R341OB7Q1DV6LV	0743229584	400157868	Wide Blue Yonder: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great writing, good characters, okay story.	Thompson is a fantastic writer, but I have to say I was into the characters sometimes and at other times not so much. Sometimes I felt too much in a character's head, like there wasn't enough for me to figure out on my own. Other times I felt too distant, like I needed more to care.  That, and the conclusion of the story seemed to come from nowhere (this was intentional, as one of the motif's in the book is the weather, how random and powerful an approaching storm can be-but I still didn't like it). But her depiction of small-town life is great, the characters are original, and the writing is superb.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R1HIKSFHSLAWW7	0440374960	172581733	Rommel Drives on Deep into Egypt	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fantastic!	I love Brautigan. This poetry collection is the best I've read of his. There's something about his poetry that distills everything down to a simple unique thought and gives it the attention it deserves. While his prose is beautiful (and poetic) as well, I like his poetry better for it's amazing simplicity and depth. If you've never read a Brautigan, start here, then go to TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	R24FI3QLMF5D9F	0970335512	113453960	Lemon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Light, charming, funny,	What first intrigued me about this book is that the author actually drew by hand all 10,000 first-run covers. Mine has a doodle of a cityscape resting atop a face, with the title and author stamped on it. Then I read the synopsis and had to buy it. This book is about a man, Wendell, who falls in love with a lemon. I thought for a while that there would be deeper meaning-perhaps it's really about the nature of love, or the difficulty of loving in a lonely world. And although the book shows love as difficult and lonely, I think any inference that the book is \\"about\\" either of these things comes from the reader looking for meaning. It's simply a book about a man who falls in love with a lemon. And although there are some beautifully poetic chapters about lemons throughout, the best chapters are the ones that deal with the everyday difficulties of loving a lemon. When he tells his less-than-accepting parents. When the lemon begins to rot. When he's laid off and told that it's not discrimination, because discrimination requires the victim to belong to a group by which they are defined and then discriminated by, and that Wendell has no group-he is a lone, lemon-loving freak. Wonderful stuff. And it's fun to tell people, when they ask what your book's about, that it's about a guy who falls in love with a lemon.	2004-09-10
US	50234666	RTBFAE6UGIG5E	0316168815	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	1	9	13	N	N	Are you kidding me?	Inexplicably, this book sold like 85 bazillion copies. I read it quickly because I wanted to get it over with. Although I admit the writing is better, this book lives somewhere between Christopher Pike (whose books I loved--when I was 13!) and The Celestine Prophesy, which is probably my all-time least favorite book. This story is told from the point of view of a dead girl. I wish she had just stayed dead and not bothered to tell us a story.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	RNGHCA0G7KUU8	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Surprisingly good	Had I not been given this book as a gift, I would never have read it. And I would have missed out. For some reason, despite that he's sold more books than anyone, I always considered King a horror writer, never a writer writer. But the advice he gives is great advice. Not intending to write a comprehensive book about the tricks of the trade, he gives his highlights. The biggest things to focus on in writing. And he gives examples from his own work, how he learned the lesson. I learned more from On Writing than many of the writing workshops I've taken. More importantly, it gave me the shot of motivation I need from time to time. King's views get a little preachy at times, a little grumpy-old-man-ish (like when he says to stop wasting time watching TV), but I appreciate it. He, if anyone, has a right to say what he thinks.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R2EN54OQOZLMV9	1560254149	588218166	Forbidden Truth: U.S.-Taliban Secret Oil Diplomacy, Saudi Arabia and the Failed Search for bin Laden	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Good Background	An in-depth look into the history of Osama bin Laden, the relationship between Middle Eastern governments, religion, and oil, and how the U.S. fits into all of it. Not surprising is the oil-thirstiness of the U.S. government and corporations. What I was surprised by, however, was the amount of U.S.-Taliban interaction leading up to September 11, something which was conveniently left out of the news coverage. The book kind of falls into chaos toward the end as it lays out the network of companies through which Osama bin Laden gets his money, but what becomes painfully obvious by the end is the degree to which all governments and government officials involved, U.S., Saudi, or otherwise, have blatant conflicts of interest. Only when something as terrible as 9/11 happens does anyone begin to question whether oil and money should be at the top of our priority list.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R1XLU8RP4DW00X	0964266040	672313240	Story People	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fantastic	It's hard to describe what Story People are. The book is a collection of poems that aren't really poems, but more like half-ponderings. Each feels like a tiny glimpse into the head of a stick-figure child. Some are funny. Some sad. Most moving in some way. But to say they're poems would make them sound too serious. They definitely don't take themselves seriously. There's some drawings too, mostly really poorly drawn stick figures that somehow perfectly illustrate the stories. It doesn't feel like an inspirational book, but when I finished I felt really inspired.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R1I3FC5VD4Q5MV	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A mixed bag	This book got tons of press, mostly because Franzen turned down Oprah's book club, saying he wanted to be considered a \\"serious\\" author. That's admirable. And reading the reviews on the back of the book, you'd think Franzen is the literary second coming. One review called this the first great novel of the 21st century. I don't know how any book could live up to that kind of hype.<br /><br />I thoroughly enjoyed the writing, and most of the story. The book focuses one chapter on each member of what has to be one of the most messed up, yet frighteningly familiar modern families. I'm not sure I could explain the plot, which skips all over chronologically and leaves it to the reader to piece together. I suspect there really isn't much of a plot. The characters are mostly interesting, although the whole thing gets a little tedious at times. And it bordered on crude at a couple parts (and I'm not one who is bothered by crudeness).<br /><br />So I thought it was pretty good. Not as good as the hype. But I also understand how someone might loathe it. Which is why I'm giving it a non-committed 3 stars.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	RZBLKUCZ36N88	0060507403	707923777	The Cheese Monkeys: A Novel in Two Semesters	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Quick Read	I went to ad school, so I could relate to many of the moments in this book, which tells the story of two semesters at an art college with a particularly difficult instructor. From the first day of the teacher terrorizing the students to try to weed out the wimps, through the final sleepless nights before the final project when someone cuts the tip of their finger off with an exacto and has to be rushed to the emergency room, although nobody wants to sacrifice the time to do so, this book rang true to me. The writing's pretty good, although the narrator's internal interjections get a little annoying. But overall a good read.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R35C86U9C8X5YS	1886093040	390010340	Stuff: The Secret Lives of Everyday Things (New Report)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Stuff you should know	This book takes a day in the life of a typical U.S. citizen, living in the Pacific Northwest, and examines the products they use in that day. It dissects the history of those products, how they were made, what processes they went through, where they were shipped from, where all the parts came from, and ultimately, the impact they have on the environment. Quite an eye-opener. Chock full of facts to make you reconsider driving your car, or eating a burger. For instance, it might be surprising to discover that to make just one quarter-pound fast food burger, almost 700 gallons of water are used in the process. Very factual and practical, this book is a great eye-opener for anyone who consumes. Without being preachy, it makes the undeniable case that our current level of consumption is not sustainable.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	RJ9JPET0TX0NC	0970335555	555874448	You Shall Know Our Velocity	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Good Second Novel	This book was bound to be a letdown after A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius. AHWOSG was the first book from Eggers, one of the freshest voices around. It was also deeply personal to him, dealing with the real-life loss of his parents. So to recreate that in this, his first fictional novel, would have been an amazing feat. That being said, this book's a pretty good read, with characters I relate to, if not always like or agree with, and the storytelling was superb, as is usually the case with Eggers. That being said, I felt like I wanted more. The book tells the one-week around-the-world trip of Will and Hand, two friends who have come into a lot of money they're trying to give away because it makes them uncomfortable. At the same time, they're dealing with the loss of a mutual best friend, and Will is recovering from a near-death random mugging. The story splits between the actual travelogue, Will's thoughts, and flashbacks. I wish the travelogue was a little longer, Will's thoughts were a little less, and I knew more in the flashbacks. Still, it was worth the read and kept me entertained.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R3TSKH30F9HTUJ	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A classic that should be a classic	It seems silly to be reviewing classics on their literary merit. Obviously, if a book's a classic, its merits have been trumpeted by much more qualified readers than myself. But I can always comment, perhaps especially when it comes to classics, on whether or not a book is enjoyable. Catch-22 is a very enjoyable classic. Some of the cleverest writing I've read. And clever in a good way, not just to be clever. Sarcastic before it was cool, outlandish, funny enough to make the serious stuff sting and serious enough (gut-wrenching at times) to make the funny stuff refreshing. Wonderful characters. And a portrayal of the idiosyncrasies of the Army that anyone who's ever been part of a large organization can relate to.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R1BUK2GTPX4BK5	0811807843	789678850	Drinking, Smoking and Screwing: Great Writers on Good Times	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great writers, good writing	I picked this up because it had a Richard Brautigan poem in it. Turned out to be one I already had. Anyway, the title's pretty self-explanatory. Short stories, novel excerpts, and a few poems with similar topics. The authors included are indeed some of the best. My favorites were by Spalding Gray, Mary McCarthy, Corey Ford, J.P. Donleavy, Terry Southern and Mason Hoffenberg, and James Thurber. The one I hated most was by Fran Lebowitz.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R80W80JA81502	0316168815	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Are you kidding me?	Inexplicably, this book sold like 85 bazillion copies. I read it quickly because I wanted to get it over with. Although I admit the writing is better, this book lives somewhere between Christopher Pike (whose books I loved--when I was 13!) and The Celestine Prophesy, which is probably my all-time least favorite book. This story is told from the point of view of a dead girl. I wish she had just stayed dead and not bothered to tell us a story.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R3M47NFIV7OY7L	0156471140	335061524	The Kindness of Women	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's good.	Ballard was on my list of people I might want to read something by, and this book had the highest Amazon rating of his books, so I ordered it. Apparently, it overlaps his Empire of the Sun, following the narrator through his childhood in wartime Shanghai through his time in medical school and as a pilot, on to his later life in London. It chronicles his relationship with the women of his life, who help him hold things together through some pretty rough times. The characters in this well-written book cover a wide range, from the purest to the most perverse. Some of the imagery is fabulous, and although the plot wandered at times, the book holds together thematically. Looking over the titles of his other books, I get the impression that this book is a sort of medley of his work. It has a disturbing Crash chapter (his only other work I'm familiar with) where people have a unique relationship with their cars, and ends with what felt like an autobiographical account of the narrator on a movie set, watching the film adaptation of one of his books. Something Ballard has experienced a few times.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R1F6TYLBMULB9H	0142002356	411697981	The Pharmacist's Mate	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Amazingly deep for its length	A slim book, only 86 pages. It's the story of a woman who has just lost her father and is dealing with that, and at the same time trying to get pregnant, something she's been struggling with for a long time. A very likable narrator. Fusselman does a great job of conveying emotional depth with very few words.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R2DNOSWTH7PZUM	0385481713	604702171	The Alphabet of Modern Annoyances	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Hit and Miss	Steinberg worked in advertising at some point in his career. I'm in advertising myself, so I can relate. His book seems like something written by someone in advertising-pretty strong concept, and writing that makes it obvious the author thinks he's very funny. In this book, he lists, from A-Z, annoying things, each with a little essay on it. Like listening to anyone complain, it depends on the topic. For instance, I enjoyed the chapter \\"A is for Advetising,\\" mostly because it's true. Likewise, I agreed with \\"D is for Disney\\" and \\"M is for McDonald's\\" and \\"O is for Oprah.\\" I hate those things too, and it's fun to complain about them. But maybe 18 of the letters of the alphabet were either things I didn't care about one way or the other, or just not funny. But it's a good-looking book, a nice size for a bookshelf.	2004-08-31
US	50234666	R3FWSD67UWCYJJ	1890132160	929639985	Believing Cassandra: An Optimist Looks at a Pessimist's World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Good Optimistic Outlook	Don't be put off by the cover photo. This is a great overview of the environmental issue. But as opposed to many books by environmental doomsday prophets, this book tells a cautionary tale but also offers hope. It also gives some practical examples of how we can affect change. Although it gets a bit cheesy at times, Attkisson's optimism is refreshing.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R2GQI4DLJY5GZA	0449006581	838011633	Brothel: Mustang Ranch and Its Women	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Good, Interesting Read	What began as a medical study on the usage of condoms turned into this book, a anthropological study of life at a brothel. Since pretty much everything in this book was new to me, it was an educational read. Albert tells about the human side of prostitution and makes a case for its legalization in the form of brothels. I'm not sure I buy her argument, but the prostitutes seemed like interesting people.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1TU4686RN0KFT	0743456459	616788699	The Graduate	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Hard to separate from the movie	As other reviewers have said, this book is only a classic because the movie is. THE GRADUATE is one of my favorite movies, and when I read this book I see Dustin Hoffman and Anne Bancroft. Still, this is probably the closest novel/movie adaptation I know of. The book reads like a screenplay. It's heavy on dialogue, most of which was used verbatim in the movie, and there's very little exposition. I found this a great model for writing dialogue, as well as saying a lot in the subtle reaction of a character. But if I hadn't seen the movie, I'm not sure what I'd think.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1FBON131N45M8	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Funny at first, then sappy, but not bad.	I really liked HIGH FIDELITY. Hornby's characters are endearingly flawed. They'll go to believable extremes, sometimes devious but usually relatable. And I liked the premise this book starts off with. But it dipped into sappiness and drug on a little too long for me. Still, I like Hornby's writing a lot so I give it some props for that.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R3AU0V98O1SF27	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Palahnuik at his almost best.	Typical, power-packed Palahnuik, this is the story of one of the last surviving members of a religious cult. Some pretty unlikable characters in an unlikable world, but the writing hits hard and moves fast. A cool style, with a story that takes many unexpected turns.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R38VQVW3TT1IZH	031225296X	439886302	You Can't Catch Death: A Daughter's Memoir	Books	4	2	6	N	N	More about her than him, but good	Ianthe is the daughter of Richard Brautigan, although this book is more her personal story of overcoming her father's suicide than a biography of him. I would have preferred the latter. Still, you get a good, if incomplete portrait of Richard Brautigan through the eyes of the person closest to him. You get to know his multi-faceted personality, including his tragic drinking habit, but never understand his life or what drove him to suicide (nobody, including his daughter, knows). Some great stories about the last of the beats. I think my favorite was when he sat with a friend in his Montana cabin and shot out the hours on the clock, each hour on the hour, with his handgun.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R392XS3R79P4DX	0393315630	749481430	Marabou Stork Nightmares	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not for the weak-stomached	From the author of Trainspotting, this story is told on three levels: the world around the main character in the hospital room where he lives in a coma, the flashbacks to his life in his mind, and the deeper dream world in which he and a fictitious friend hunt the terrible marabou stork. The main character is not a very likable fellow, and the story gets pretty hardcore at times, once making me physically sick. But if you like a book that has a visceral effect on you, as I do, this might do.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	RT0A2IL0IJLPH	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	1	1	N	N	And you thought you were clever	This is the true story of one of the greatest con men in history. Abagnale, who now works for the FBI, was a millionaire by the age of twenty. In his career of lies, in which he impersonated a doctor, a lawyer, and an airline pilot among others, he cashed over $2.5 million in bad checks. The book details how he went about it. Ingenious, sometimes complicated but oftentimes shockingly simple scams allowed this teenager to live like a rock star without a high school degree. A good quick read which Spielberg made into a decent movie.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R30OERYCUIPA03	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Great Military Nonfiction for those who don't read the genre	One of the best non-fiction books I've ever read. It covers the 36-hour conflict between U.S. Marines and Special Forces and virtually the entire Somali city of Mogadishu that took place in 1993 when two U.S. Black Hawk Helicopters were shot down, something I knew absolutely nothing about. Bowden describes the battle from both sides, as well as the politics surrounding it. Does a great job of making the soldiers human. A tragic story. The movie, which was good, didn't touch the book.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1QYBZPJSL46MR	0876858647	710729622	Last Night on Earth Poems	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Read them out loud	This was the first Bukowski I've read. The poems are less poetry-like and more short stories in columns. They've got a great rhythm. They're better when you read them out loud, which works better when you live alone. What amazes me is that this book is 405 pages long, and it's one of forty-five books by Bukowski, mostly books of poetry. That's pretty prolific. This one was published in 1992. There's a lot of poems about being old and getting ready to die. And a lot about drinking.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R5ASHU99CF8LZ	0425164772	819616308	Shiny Adidas Tracksuits and the Death of Camp and Other Essays from Might Magazine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Funny Funny Funny	In A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, Dave Eggars talks a bit about the short-lived magazine he and a group of friends founded. This is a collection of the best articles from that magazine. Very intelligent, sarcastic, and funny if not always important, they cover such topics as the annual meeting of Phil Campbell's from around the world in Phil Campbell, Alabama (written by Phillip G. Campbell), why black people are cooler than white people, how the world's conflicts can be solved through simple design principles, and \\"The Thing About Men and Nail Polish.\\" A good friend bought me this book, which was very nice because it was one of those rare gifts for no reason that make you feel especially good. Now I will lend it back to him because he should read it too.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1LC0KWJ1JRBRM	0312277105	275076262	An Unfortunate Woman: A Journey	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Eerie in the context of Brautigan's life	This was the last book Richard Brautigan wrote before he committed suicide. Reading with that in mind, this book takes on an eeriness and relevance otherwise missing. It is written in the form of a travel journal, a real journal, with long periods of missing entries. But the crux of this book lies in the narrator's attempt to understand death. The house he currently rents was previously owned by a woman who killed herself there. The narrator also has a good friend who is losing her battle with cancer. It's as if Brautigan was wrestling with the idea of death. Whether his suicide means he figured it out, or failed to, is unknown. This book is a better look into his final years than a good story, but it's full of typical Brautigan humor and wonderful writing.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R2FO9HINSYNZN1	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Incredible Journey	This is the story of the greatest adventure ever to take place in the United States. It begins with Thomas Jefferson's selection and training of Meriwether Lewis, Lewis' selection of William Clark, and their four-year expedition across the continent in search of the all-water route to the Pacific. Although they obviously found no all-water route, they brought back an unimaginable amount off scientific, geographic, and anthropological information on the as-yet-unexplored (by white man) western territory. The hardships they endure, the discoveries, the quarrels, dangers, and ultimately, Meriwether Lewis' troubled and tragic life following the expedition have everything to make an incredible story. And the fact that it's true makes it even better. A truly amazing tale, told very well, as always, by Ambrose.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1VKPVF01L8GFJ	0375726691	730328920	Dogwalker: Stories	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Fantastically absurd	The Dogwalker is a collection of short first-person stories that mostly revolve around dogs. In perhaps the most bizarre of the bunch, the narrator has sex with his girlfriend's dog, which spawns a tiny man and results in several generations of dog/men mutations. Another story, my favorite, starts: \\"It seemed like a pretty simple trick to me. My friend Robert would hold the apple in his mouth while I, steady-handed, carved his initials into the piece of fruit with a chainsaw.\\" Bradford walks you into bizzaro world slowly, starting out with stories I thought were a little odd and progressing to some of the weirdest stories I've ever read. What I love about the stories is their assumptiveness. It is never questioned whether or not chainsawing initials into an apple in someone's mouth is a good idea, or whether mating with canines is morally permissible. It just takes the premise and runs with it. It's a quick read, and very entertaining. It's also one of the only current books I've read which reminds me of Richard Brautigan's writing style.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1OIJLSVO8IIO1	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great read	This was on a lot of people's lists for the best books of 2003. I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's the parallel story of Chicago's preparation to host the World's Fair in 1893, and the story of a psychopathic serial killer living at the same time and place. The writing is good. The history fascinating. Larson tells the horrific story of the murders without lapsing into sensationalism, and paints the majesty of the World's Fair and the effect it had on the people of Chicago with a wonderfully vivid brush. Were a similar fair to take place today, it would seem overly extravagant. Were a madman to create a house of torture today, it would seem yet another sign of our degenerative times. But in 1893, the extravagance stems from a sense of civic pride rather than corporate greed, and the murder spree is so out-of-place that it does seem like the work of the devil. Two great stories that, juxtaposed, stand even stronger.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	RHV639OW6K3T6	0060740450	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Marquez's opus	\\"The first of the line is tied to a tree and the last is being eaten by ants.\\" That is a gypsy's prophecy of the Buend&iacute;a family, the center of this tale. The story begins with Jos&eacute; Arcadia Buend&iacute;a, who makes a perilous journey across a great mountain range and starts a town and a family secluded from the rest of the world. The rest of the story follows this family through civil wars, rebellions, betrayal, births, deaths, and the tides of history. It's an epic tale, and there is so much covered in its 400+ pages that the whole thing feels like a prologue or an epilogue. I was waiting for the pace to slow down and focus on one character, but it never really does. Sometimes I liked this, sometimes I felt a little detached. And because many of the family members have the same names, it's hard to keep them straight. But the tales throughout the book are wonderful. I love the magical realism, M&aacute;rquez's writing is poetry, and when I finished I was surprised by how attached I had grown to both the family and the town.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R17LOH46BJAT4A	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hornby at his best	I thought this book was a great read. Entertaining, fast-paced, insightful. It's basically the story of a not completely likable guy, who has just gone through a bad breakup, and is going back to see the five girls he considers to have been his worst breakups to figure out what's wrong with him. Funny stuff happens. Even some sappy stuff, which was tolerable. I liked the movie a lot when I saw it years ago, but when I watched it after reading the book, it wasn't as good.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R8JANOF2OGO1O	0670032573	511631376	Wizard and Glass (The Dark Tower, Book 4)	Books	2	8	18	N	N	I'm surprised it's gotten such good reviews	This is the fourth book in The Dark Tower series. It is 670 pages alone. King says the whole story will be seven volumes. I don't know if it's the fact that I'm also reading a book called A SHORT HISTORY OF EVERYTHING that's only 470 pages or that Tolkien told basically the same story as The Dark Tower in a mere 1012 pages, but King seems to have lost his editor. I was bored. Most of this book is flashback, which automatically makes it less engaging. And I didn't really care about the characters so much, the ones in the present, or the flashback. And I thought the writing was heavy-handed and cheesy. King took a long time to write this book after finishing the third in the series. He said in an interview that it was because he was afraid of the love story he had to write. I can see why. It's pretty generic. The only part I liked about the book was that the end, which I won't ruin. I'm surprised so many people have given this good reviews. To each his own, I guess. For me, I'm done with the Dark Tower with this one.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R3LADVECRCNMWV	0395706742	104387408	Revenge of the Lawn, The Abortion, So the Wind Won't Blow It All Away	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Brautigan's the best, but this is not his best	I discovered Brautigan recently and have been reading everything I can get my hands on of his. There's three collections of three books. The one with TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA and IN WATERMELON SUGAR is the best one to get if you're only going to get one. But this one is good as well.<br /><br />REVENGE OF THE LAWN, a collection of short stories, has some great two- and three-pagers that display typical Brautigan wit, humor, and insight. Some, as with any collection, are better than others.<br /><br />THE ABORTION is one of Brautigan's better plots. And I say this because his style and sense of humor is pretty consistent through all of his work, and you either love it or hate it. If you hate it, you won't like any of his stuff. If you like it, then you'll probably like this one. It seems more original than some of his genre parody stories like THE HAWKLINE MONSTER and DREAMING OF BABYLON. It also seems like it may be a little autobiographical, so the emotion in it feels more real.<br /><br />SO THE WIND WON'T BLOW IT ALL AWAY eerily forshadows Brautigan's suicide. It speaks to the youth in all of us and carries a great sense of nostalgia. Taken in context with his life and its end shortly after writing this book, it feels like a depressed man looking back at the golden years with complete fondness.<br /><br />Overall, I'd say this is the second best of the Brautigan collections available.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R3A9PVY04TY9O7	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	4	0	3	N	Y	Makes a good point	I was reading this on the subway and a drunk guy in his twenties started asking me why I was reading it, if I was looking for truth. I know why he was asking. This is the kind of book you take to the coffee shop if you want to seem smart. People put it on their bookshelves because it's \\"intellectual.\\"<br /><br />THE STRANGER is supposedly one of the great examples of existentialism and a great piece of literature. I don't know anything about existentialism, so I'll have to comment on the second part. It was a good, quick read. A character who is memorable in that he doesn't care about anything. In the end of the story he stands trial for murder, but the trial ends up being not of his actions, but of his character. It makes a point about what defines us as humans and what is required of us to keep that label.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1SVRC8K78QFPV	0395547032	651737336	Richard Brautigan: A Confederate General from Big Sur, Dreaming of Babylon, and  the Hawkline Monster	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Good, but not his best	I was reading stuff on the Internet about Brautigan and someone said that if you like his stuff, you'll have to read everything you can get your hands on. That's me. There's three collections of his that have been released, each one with three books in it. Of those three collections, this is my least favorite.<br /><br />CONFEDERATE GENERAL, is about two couples, including the narrator and Lee Mellon, a Confederate General who lost his shoes. The book is mostly about them drinking and getting high in a strange house in the middle of nowhere. The surreal house has glass walls and a pond where they keep frogs and alligators. They also have problems with people chopping down their trees. A strange man Lee Mellon once knew visits them. He is crazy. The story has six endings.<br /><br />DREAMING OF BABYLON is the strangest P.I. novel you will ever read. Likewise, THE HAWKLINE MONSTER is a western, only in the loosest sense of the term. Even if you like Brautigan's writing (which apparently is pretty polarizing), it's hard to guess what anyone will make of these stories. I thought they were pretty cool, and unlike anything else ever, which is a good thing.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1MLYFHM3AG1C8	0836218515	183687804	The PreHistory of The Far Side:: A 10th Anniversary Exhibit	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Hilarious behind-the-scenes...	This is a behind-the-scenes look at The Far Side. It amazes me how similar cartooning is to advertising, my profession, in terms of the process, the clients, the portfolio, the frustrations, etc. Includes early sketches of cartoons, changes that were made with rationale, and a hilarious section on reader complaints. Also has a chapter on mistakes, one of my favorites of which was when a newspaper accidentally swapped a Far Side caption with a Dennis the Menace caption. I was laying in bed reading it alone, and laughed so hard I started crying.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R3BV51UKB1Z8J1	0393316734	129219535	Commodify Your Dissent: Salvos from the Baffler	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Some interesting insights	A collection of some of the best writing from the magazine known for its scathing critiques of modern business and media practices. A good read, although at times I felt like they just hated everything. Still, some interesting looks into how rebellion and \\"alternative\\", among other things, have been co-opted by the mainstream and thus stripped of meaning.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R25MCST289TBZU	0887307043	748298009	The Ecology of Commerce: A Declaration of Sustainability	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Good Overview with Practical Solutions	Many books on the ecology of our planet tell what's wrong for most of the book then have a chapter in the end on what we can do. What I liked about Hawken's book, which many consider to be the classic on growing our economy and sustainably in terms of our environment, is that it is chock full of great examples of how companies have successfully altered their practices in light of ecological concerns. And the counter-intuitive thing is that, with creative problem solving, it can actually be more profitable to be an environmentally friendly company or society. A little dated at this point, this is still a great place to start if you're getting into books about sustainable living.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	RVI56H6YPWXM8	0674485262	628445870	Journey to the Ants: A Story of Scientific Exploration	Books	4	6	10	N	N	The best and only book on ants I've ever read	It's like a 200-page nature show. Completely fascinating. The authors are big-time, famous ant guys, and they've written some of the textbooks on ants. This is kind of an Ants for Dummies, or a book for people who just want to know all the cool stuff about ants. It's scary sometimes, the level of sophistication in ant colonies. As a being, one ant is pretty powerless, but ants' social behavior has evolved to rival, in some instances, the ingenuity and organization of early man. This book's probably not for everyone, but if you can watch an hour-long documentary on Animal Planet, you might like this book.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R375ZPZA58N692	0767908171	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Good Big Swing	Bryson is predominantly a travel writer. Here he ventures a bit beyond that. His goal in writing this book was to give a simple Everyman's history of science. Not the nitty gritty facts, just the highlights, in a language we can all understand. Quite an undertaking, but he pulls it off wonderfully. He is a master at describing people, so the best chapters are the ones where he talks about the scientists and explorers themselves. Always fascinating, often hilarious.  He does spend a little two long, I felt, giving tabloid-esque descriptions of how we Earthlings might meet our fate (asteroid, volcanic eruption, ice age, etc.), but for the most part he gives just the right amount of detail and spends the right amount of time with all the pertinent topics. A great read for anyone who liked science class but has forgotten most of it along the way.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R2W2MVHSJEX9I	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great, if flawed, characters	I continue to love most of Homes' stuff. They're stories that are enjoyable to read, but grow on you even more afterward. This one, like many of her other stories, deals with disenchanted suburbanites who have checked off everything on the American Dream list (home, cars, kids, good jobs, etc.) but still haven't found happiness. The characters in this book appeared in one of Homes' short stories. In that story, the parents sent the kids to Grandma's for the weekend, then smoked crack at home in a desperate attempt to discover something new. Likewise, this book is filled with desperate attempts. In the first 30 pages, they set the house on fire because they just want something different. But as over the top as their desperation is, it's something we can still relate to. I think that's what makes it such an enjoyable read.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	RFTS9KCE0PT1C	1573226882	326942117	Fever Pitch	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Probably not bad, just bad for me	I picked this book out on Amazon before I read any of Hornby's books because it was the highest rated book of his. I didn't know it was a 250-page book about his personal love of soccer (or football). Hornby's English. There are a lot of football fans in England. If I lived in England, I'd be a football nut too. But reading this book was like listening to steeplechase nuts recount the best races they'd ever witnessed. I was hoping it might turn into an examination of the global fanaticism surrounding the sport, but it became a very personal description of Hornby's love affair with the game, and I was more fascinated by why someone would write a game-by-game description of twenty-year-old soccer seasons. Hornby's a good writer, but I'd recommend this only to someone who really really really loves soccer.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1FGS63ASXKSTI	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Wow.	There are so many unbelievable parts of this story of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, that it's impossible to sum it up in a review. I had to remind myself several times that these are real people, and this really happened. It is not fiction.<br /><br /> For a long time, Rwandans have classified themselves into two \\"ethnic groups,\\" Hutus and Tutsis. (I put that in quotes because neither ethnographers nor anthropologists classify them in different groups.) Historically, up to the mid 20th century, Tutsis have been a more socially elite group, and occasional minor conflicts between the groups took place. But when the Belgians decided to make Rwanda a Belgian colony, they enacted laws that exacerbated this racial divide, including but not at all limited to requiring ethnic identity cards.<br /><br />This book wonderfully tells the story of the buildup of tension to the breaking point, and the ensuing massacre of 800,000 Rwandans in 100 days. It was a state-sponsored genocide, one eerily similar to Hitler's in many ways except for the lack of international attention it received. Although the Akagira River, which feeds Lake Victoria, was literally clogged with mutilated bodies, the international community remained ignorant and passive. The UN debated. The media more or less ignored the situation.<br /><br /> I haven't been able to stop thinking about the book since I finished it. There are so many horrifying stories contained within, and Gouretevich rightly won a handful of awards for his reporting. He tells the story several times, each time adding new layers--the history, the politics, the personal stories, the international reaction, the aftermath, everyday life in Rwanda after the genocide--and each layer is more sickening. But you need to hear the story several times before it starts to sink in. For a well-off American to understand that somewhere in the world a man's family was attacked, butchered, and thrown into their latrine still alive--this is a very difficult thing to grasp. And that is one of 800,000 stories, many even more horrific. It takes a lot of time and thought to digest. But you still hear of ongoing violence in Rwanda. Recently 100 people were butchered by soldiers with machetes. Although in the western world we will never be able to understand why, this book helps explain the history of it.thing to grasp. And that is one of 800,000 stories, many even more horrific. It takes a lot of time and thought to digest. But you still hear of ongoing violence in Rwanda. Recently 100 people were butchered by soldiers with machetes. Although in the western world we will never be able to understand why, this book helps explain the history of it.	2004-08-30
US	50234666	R1OZ3O3BD1Q4JP	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the most memorable characters I've encountered	According to a New Republic quote on the book jacket, A Confederacy of Dunces is \\"one of the funniest books ever written.\\" And it was funny. Certainly Ignatius Riley, the main character, is one of the more memorable and strange characters I can remember. He's an overweight mustached intellectual with years of college training and no interpersonal skills. He's a slob, arrogant, cruel to his mother, eccentric and overly dramatic. Chaos trails him like the wake of an ocean liner. Yet for some reason you find yourself liking him, perhaps because the other characters he deals with all have their own glaring flaws. An unconventional story, with many impossible-to-predict curves.<br /><br />This, amazingly and unfortunately, was Toole's first and only book. As a writer and avid reader of fiction, this is both maddening and saddening.	2004-08-30
