US	50233598	RZGEQRWQ7DT9U	0140430512	346473338	His Natural Life (Penguin English Library, El51)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Marcus Clarke's Penal Colony Masterpiece	This was without question one of the most gripping novels I've read in many a day. I first ran across this work in a brief mention by British travel writer/popular historian James Morris, where he thought it akin to the gulag novels of post-Stalinist Russia in subject matter and philosophical content. Add to that a wealth of striking narrative detail, immensely memorable characters (Maurice Frere, Sarah Purfoy, and particularly James North leap to mind), some truly transporting (no pun intended) and incredibly creepy passages, mind-blowing plot twists and turns, and a persistent refusal to provide too pat solutions to characters' problems... Clarke wasn't better than Dickens or Eliot, but neither of the latter could have written this book. <br /> Clarke's masterpiece was published in 1874, after being serialized in 1870-72. Critics have lambasted a few of the less believable elements and some of the pat characterization of a number of supporting characters, but these are flaws to be found in most novels of that time (and ours). Clarke redeems himself by taking the cliches and mannerisms of the nineteenth-century English novel and using them to illuminate a whole new society, one practically mythical to the metropolitan consciousness of the Victorian Anglophone world. This work is a great counterpoint to all those English novels of the day where the hero or villain gets packed off to the antipodes and returns mysteriously changed. The main thrust of the novel, though, was the need to tell the true story of (white) Australian society's beginnings. Clarke, in telling the story of the unjustly convicted Rufus Dawes (aka Richard Devine), provides a panoramic view of early Victorian Australia, from the hellish convict settlements of Macquarie Harbor and Norfolk Island to the nascent frontier towns of Hobart and Melbourne, from the aging memories of the \\"First Fleeters\\" (the original convicts who arrived in 1788) to the controversial Eureka Stockade Uprising of 1854. The narrative frequently moves at a deliciously whirlwind pace to accomodate the exciting interaction of characters and history.<br /> Clarke's novel is generally cited as nineteenth-century Australia's greatest and points the way towards more nuanced examinations of the colonial experience in the twentieth century (Peter Carey's JOE MAGGS, about the \\"off-stage\\" life of Dickens antihero Abel Magwitch, is apparently very much in this vein). Don't read it just for this reason, though. Please be sure to find the longer, original version, as I was fortunate enough to do. Clarke was forced to produce a revised, shortened version for the original publication, one dictated by his editors that turned the novel into a much more \\"conventional\\" Victorian literary production (and has a longer title--FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE). I understand a TV series was made in the mid-80s with Anthony Perkins as North. If this was the case, then it badly needs to be remade on celluloid, because I can't seem to find the series. It's a magnificent novel whose flaws, I think, are amply counterbalanced by its unexpected joys.	2003-04-07
US	50233598	RAZBR7WMU227P	1568582080	714462585	Angry Young Spaceman	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Compelling mix of classic sci-fi and contemporary anger	Munroe continues the keen-eyed, witty social analysis of FLYBOY ACTION FIGURE COMES WITH GASMASK and increases his range of targets, from the media conquest of spontaneous, grass-roots &quot;subcultures&quot; such as punk (in the book's case, &quot;pug,&quot; a loosely structured system of street fighting that brings Chuck Palahniuk to mind)--a process that seems not to have changed a great deal by 2959, only becoming more formalized--to the larger phenomenon of cultural imperialism, here substituting &quot;Earth&quot; for &quot;America.&quot; Sam Breen, a twentysomething similar in many ways to FLYBOY's Ryan Slint, heads for the underwater world of Octavia to teach English and faces many of the perils and irritants of being a member of the galaxy's ruling entity while in a colonized region. While learning the language and getting to know the locals, he falls for Jinya, a young female who seems as interested in Earth as he is in Octavia. Mixed in with the narrative are compelling observations of life on Earth and Sam's former &quot;pug&quot; subculture that have urgent and relevant parallels for the present day. ANGRY YOUNG SPACEMAN certainly merits 5 stars, even though I still prefer FLYBOY (although that could certainly change after repeat readings). Through intriguing plot twists and tender portrayals of romantic longing, Munroe manages to transcend genre and create a well-crafted scifi novel that certainly shouldn't keep away those who &quot;don't get&quot; scifi.	2002-01-12
US	50233598	R22Z7L7ALVRVR7	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Enid/Becky is my muse	Unfortunately, most of my experience of graphic novels come from those that portray the oppressively dark and occasionally violent meanderings of incredibly thin guys or girls with funny hair who walk the dark, dank city streets like a bunch of lame bats. Therefore, I read GHOST WORLD with some trepidation, trepidation that completely evaporated as soon as I got past the first page. Enid and Becky are wonderfully written and drawn characters that almost perfectly embody the terror and trauma of adolescence. Mind you, I saw the whole thing from the other side of the gender line (as did, presumably, the author), but still... Enid is wonderfully sassy and self-possessed despite her own insecurities, and her incredibly sweet dad and the well-meaning Josh are bewitchingly brought to life. I think pretty much everybody had a &quot;friend&quot; like John Ellis. The character of Becky, I think, is a particular standout, as she doesn't seem get the attention (from boys or the artist) that Enid does, but comes across all the stronger for it, especially in her insecurity and her desperation to keep Enid with her. The mysterious graffiti artist was an especially good touch. The end was sad but fitting, and I hope that Clowes brings his fascinating characters back for more adventures. I'm also ridiculously excited about going to see the movie, which looks to be nearly as good as the book.	2001-08-08
US	50233598	R3CL0LWC3690HP	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delicious! Tastier than a strip of Walloon butt-steak!	As a hopeless MST3K addict (and as you can imagine, I've been going through tough times since summer '99), I was drooling waiting for this book to come out. The only possible choice for bathroom reading, Mike Nelson more than delivers on the promise of his writing skill from the show. The big difference here is that he leaves off shredding '50s-'80s Z-grade fare such as the legendary Mexican kids' film &quot;Santa Claus&quot; (&quot;Hey, Santa, I need more 'stuff', man; just a taste, man...&quot;) and turns to some of the more popular movies and stars of the past decade. Not entirely merciless, Mike manages to find a soft spot in his heart for meat-and-potatoes heroes and villains such as Kurt Russell and Ray Wise (Laura Palmer's dad from &quot;Twin Peaks&quot; and apparently the best reason to have watched the now-defunct Aaron Spelling soap opera &quot;Savannah&quot;). <br />Fortunately for cynics, he turns into Genghis Khan when it comes to the bright lights of the present day, such as Jean-Claude Van Damme and Carrot Top (and notes the irony in &quot;Chairman of the Board&quot; when Carrot Top trapshoots John Tesh CDs from his apartment window). To mention any more specifics would really be unforgivably giving it away. I can say that one of the funniest themes of the book is Mike's developing love/hate relationship with DVD technology, with which I have yet to become intimate. Such features manage to make this book transcend its movie review origins and become more of a biting comment on entertainment and society. MSTies will totally love it (just imagine Servo delivering some of the choicer barbs) and the initiated should respond well to Mike's common-sense analyses of individuals like Kevin Sorbo. Be sure and keep your eyes peeled, though, for highlights such as (probably my favorite part) Mike's theory as to the REAL reason Jonathan Harris didn't receive a cameo role in the feature film version of &quot;Lost in Space.&quot; People, this book is being sold atone-FIFTH its price (if even that). Take advantage!!	2001-05-29
US	50233598	R1XNDVMYTNI0G5	0380810433	608777897	Flyboy Action Figure Comes with Gasmask	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A vital, realistic comic vision for the late lamented 90s	I picked this book up in the library one day, unemployed and depressed and looking for something fun to read. I didn't know it was going to be THAT fun. Munroe does several things with this wonderful book. First of all, he made me laugh with the unobtrusive but offbeat humor I look for and rarely find in literature often described as &quot;hip.&quot; He also totally nails realistic dialogue down for the 90s generation (whether you're &quot;X&quot;, &quot;Y&quot;, or &quot;conscientious objector&quot; is entirely up to you, if you dislike media labels) without being TOO self-consciously pop-culture savvy. I think if you're going to be pop-culture savvy, it's impossible not to be self-conscious, but Munroe comes closer than anybody I've ever read (or watched on TV or in film). Finally, he proves that it's possible to be politically and socially concerned and still maintain a sense of humor and fun. While the stereotype nowadays is that the two cannot coincide (sometimes they don't, but just as equally they do), Munroe reminds us of the opposite view. The issues are sensitively and humorously explored without becoming especially  didactic. I can't end this without praising Jim Munroe for creating Jack and Phil, too of the more amusing roommate characters in modern fiction. &quot;There's a bee in here...&quot; Congratulations, Jim, and keep 'em comin'!	2001-05-28
US	50233598	R1MF553AK4MDBP	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;Sorry, man. I don't date other guys&quot; (very loudly)	I don't remember why I ended up buying BARREL FEVER, but it was one of the more fortuitous discoveries I've made in the desolate wasteland of &quot;important&quot; modern American literature. I never got to hear  Sedaris on NPR, but judging from these stories, he must have been  something. Three stand out: &quot;Season's Greetings...&quot;, which takes  a sympathetic look at that nearly dead straw man, the American bourgeois  family, and gives it a good kick in the head anyway (most people from  &quot;middle-class&quot; backgrounds probably knew or grew up with a family  like the Dunbars), &quot;Malison,&quot; mercilessly skewering the whole  pretentious &quot;literary&quot; mindset (thank heaven I wasn't an English  major!), and, of course, the crowning masterpiece, &quot;SantaLand  Diaries,&quot; which stands as one of the major literary monuments to the  enslavement of vast swathes of the American populace in the service  industries and retail (and kicks the ol' bourgeois family some more). Even  though some of the stories were a lot better than others, the humor was   consistently and howlingly funny without being pretentious; in fact, I was  rather disappointed with NAKED since, while &quot;better,&quot; it didn't  make me laugh as hard. David Sedaris is one of the finest writers in  America today and possibly the funniest.	2000-06-19
US	50233598	RW63RKF6UR41M	0750912073	714419968	The Well at the World's End (Pocket Classics Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Back to the Basics	You've got to wonder why people fall all over themselves in slavish imitation of Lovecraft and his &quot;mythos&quot; and yet nobody seems to have planned any literary adventures in William Morris' world of Upmeads.  I've been interested in fantasy literature and its history for a while, and  a week ago I finally sat down and read this book. I was expecting it to be  better than Lord of the Rings, and it was. I've always preferred Lewis'  Narnia to Tolkien's Middle-Earth, and Morris gives me another alternative  (albeit the alternative that actually spawned both Narnia AND Middle  Earth). Ralph and Ursula make one of the most affectionate, lovable couples  to be found in fantasy literature, the physical descriptions of landscapes  and clothing and people are all the more gorgeous for their archaic nature,  and you even get as an occasional bonus William Morris inserting his  pre-Fabian socialist ideas into people's mouths. If people are going to  write imitative fantasy novels, they should start with THIS, and not  Tolkien or Lovecraft.	2000-05-30
US	50233598	R2B8DTN9G78295	0140433228	216287092	The Grandissimes: A Story of Creole Life (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Best Novel of New Orleans Before JK Toole	A native Louisianian, I didn't read this book for a long time, but was well rewarded when I finally got around to it. Cable caught a lot of hell for this book (along with OLD CREOLE DAYS) and it's easy to see why. Taking  potshots at popular historical myths (and making arguments for racial  equality) was never popular, especially in Louisiana right after  Reconstruction when this book was written. While the writing and some of  the melodrama are considerably dated (if exquisitely lush and beautiful),  Cable makes excellent (if occasionally strident and jarring) points of his  own while giving us a beautifully entertaining story of forbidden love and  the clash of cultures, (themes more than resonant in Southern literature),  and his characters, particularly the strong-willed Aurore, the family black  sheep Honore de Grandissime, and the idealistic young Anglo (well, German,  really) immigrant, Joseph Frowenfeld, stay in the soul's memory long after  the book's finish. As an afterthought, the way Cable goes after Creole  society has relevance today, as there is probably no other part of  Louisiana history and culture as misunderstood and yet sentimentally  applauded as its Cajun and Creole components. A great novel not only on its  own terms, but also for the impact its had on perceptions of the South and  especially Louisiana.	2000-05-30
US	50233598	RJVNJXFFTQQ3L	0375708731	819615677	Burr: A Novel	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Historical Fiction at its Finest	I read &quot;Burr&quot; first out of Gore Vidal's historical novels, and was very glad I did. Having been a fan of Vidal ever since reading his &quot;United States: Collected Essays, 1952-1992,&quot; I eagerly awaited  an acidic, satirical take on the glorious creation myths of the USA. I got  what I expected, but a great deal more. The friendship between Hamilton and  Burr (and Burr and the Alcibiadean James Wilkinson) generates a great deal  of pathos, and makes the famous duel (memorably commented on by Burr as a  pastime popular culture thinks entered the United States due to his killing  Hamilton) a great deal more tragic than even calcified American history  textbooks imply (albeit for different reasons). The writing frequently  grabs attention, especially the expedition to Quebec in 1775. The general  impression is of these two geniuses, for whom the highest ideal is service  to a brand new country, being manipulated and betrayed by their de facto  political &quot;masters,&quot; Washington and Jefferson. The asides in  1830s New York are equally fascinating, as Charlie Schuyler (to reappear in  LINCOLN and 1876) maneuvers the minefield of Jacksonian politics to  discover the real story, already beginning to accumulate the dust of  idolatry. This is easily one of the best historical novels ever written.	2000-05-24
US	50233598	R2BS92C5QY04FB	031218302X	757043497	Red Meat: A Collection of Red Meat Cartoons From the Secret Files of Max Cannon	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Oh, to be Milkman Dan for a DAY...	I made the mistake of WORKING at a chain bookstore a few years ago in my hometown, and as I grew despondent as usual one day, my friend happens along with RED MEAT. The first strip I saw was the one where Ted Johnson's  son needs &quot;braces.&quot; That's all that need be said for those who've  read the book, and for those who haven't, you'll doubtless soon find out.  What made me realize this book was something truly special was that each  strip involving the majestically nasty Milkman Dan was funnier than an  entire Woody Allen movie. Buy it, cure it by hanging it out in the sun for  a few days (or hang out in the sun yourself for the right mood), cook it,  salt it, and READ it.	2000-05-24
US	50233598	R3L8HTTWPGQ4QM	1565041941	560647201	4: A Nomad of the Time Streams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	E. Nesbit put to good use	Of all Moorcock's work, this series is the one I most readily enjoy. Elric and the others are all very well, but it's a lot more jarring and thought-provoking (for me, anyway) to see how Moorcock's examinations of racism and imperialism (and all the other evils against which the \\"Eternal Champion\\" battles) are applied in these masterful parallel worlds of the twentieth century. Particularly impressive is how he recasts various historical figures in slightly different roles, not least a member of E. Nesbit's Bastable family as the main character (I think). Some of the cameos are harder to spot, but greater fun for it. I'd love to mention a few, but it would probably spoil the plot, or at least the surprise. This selection of the \\"Eternal Champion\\" is worth twice this price, offering fantastic, defiant Jules Verne/ H.G.Wells/sort-of-William Morris entertainment!	2000-05-18
US	50233598	R312RT49J418L0	0684843161	123160711	A RETURN TO MODESTY: Discovering the Lost Virtue	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Interesting, but implodes	I confess to expecting not to like this book when I read it. I was pleased to find that there were more than a few points where I and the author shared common views. I, too, generally find modesty (generally left undefined in the book, defined by me as a lack of pretentiousness) a turn-on, and firmly agree (for pressing personal reasons) that the pressure to have sex exists pretty much as described (as I cannot testify from personal experience to the female perspective, I will merely say that it DEFINITELY exists in the culture for men). Unfortunately, Ms. Shalit rests her periodical keen insights on what seems to me a fundamentally flawed premise. Rape and male oppression of women certainly did not start with the modern (1960s) feminist movement, as the author seems to imply. We are offered a rather distorted and whitewashed version of sexual relations throughout the centuries. The whole male obsession with pornography has a long and twisted history, going back well before modern feminism. Even the modern objectification of women's bodies got a jumpstart with Hugh Hefner and PLAYBOY, about ten to fifteen years before the radical feminist movement of the 1960s-1970s. The problem is not that women brought this &quot;crisis&quot; on themselves. I must agree with Susan Faludi that the continued degradation of women is a result of a male determination to hold on to power. REAL men don't treat women that way, and don't have to resort to superficial rituals (flattering and enjoyable as those may sometimes be) to show women that they respect and value their minds and their bodies. Shalit's sources could also be broader; it struck me that in many outright feminist works I've read, the authors quote a great many relevant statistics and use a great deal of firsthand interviews and reports (Faludi's BACKLASH is particularly impressive). Ms. Shalit largely depends on (as another reviewer noticed) COSMO, other women's mags, personal memories, and the observations of memoirists and psychiatrists, often representing a very narrow stratum of American society. This is like Freud trying to define the whole sum of human subconscious and sexuality through the observations of troubled, well-to-do haute bourgeois Viennese of the 1890s. Ms. Shalit's views on the pressure to have sex are appreciated, but Sheila Kitzinger brought the whole argument down to a few pages in her WOMAN'S EXPERIENCE OF SEX. I paraphrase (I think): &quot;The right to express oneself sexually can also mean not having sex at all.&quot; This book, while interesting and occasionally prescient, foundered on fundamental flaws.	2000-05-10
US	50233598	R29AP7SOGOBK3J	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fortuna! You degenerate wanton!	...This book means a great deal to me, and every time I read it, I find something new. Hilarious and raunchy, this is one novel you wouldn't expect to find respectable Southern matrons clasping to their bosoms (of course, respectable Southern matrons can be very surprising). Ignatius pretty much speaks for anybody chained to their birthplace and longing for exotic adventure or bygone days in faraway places (North Africa or elsewhere). The best thing is how Toole manages to bring the world outside into the usually provincial world of Southern literature. For example, when I was eleven I knew what a \\"Mau-Mau\\" was, the identity of Norman Mailer, and the author of \\"The Consolation of Philosophy.\\" This book is not only a howler, it's an EDUCATION, and without question the best book ever written about New Orleans (especially if your family, rather than being of pureblood Cajun or Creole stock, is one of those great Irish-German families that are responsible for New Orleans' \\"reminiscent-of-Hoboken\\" accent).	2000-05-10
US	50233598	R2F81AE29PS1GC	0521599202	582610696	Bolshevik Women	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Innovative and entertaining	I was forced to read this book, in that I took a class taught by the author. Fortunately, I didn't have to steel my soul and tell her to her face that it reeked (not that I would have had the guts to do that anyhow),  for it was definitely the best book we read in that particular Russian  history class. Recounting the histories of Soviet women both well-known  (Kollontai) and not so well-known (Zemliachka), Clements shows, in  well-structured arguments, how the women of the Bolshevik movement,  feminists as well as socialists, interpreted their feminist mission in the  context of what they felt must happen in Russia before women and other  oppressed minorities truly gained equal rights. One of the most fascinating  themes in the book is how Soviet women viewed their task in contrast to the  Western suffragist movement, which was largely led by the well-to-do. This  book is an excellent introduction to Soviet history in the early years and  offers several directions for study in the history of the Soviet Union and  of feminism.	2000-05-05
US	50233598	RQN2V0IFMX28A	0761507582	375000596	Black Spark, White Fire: Did African Explorers Civilize Ancient Europe?	Books	4	35	42	N	N	In Search of Senwosret	I found Richard Poe's book extremely interesting. Having been aware of the Afrocentrism controversy for a few years, and (despite studying extremely modern, Asian history) having always had a sneaking fascination with  ancient history, I eagerly anticipated the new information and arguments  that I would find, and I was not disappointed. I was delighted to find that  the writer was not only of European and Latino descent (proving that some  people aren't threatened by challenges to historical orthodoxy) but that he  was most known for writing books on MARKETING (WAVE 3, WAVE 4, and so  on)!  That's interdisciplinary research at its weirdest, but I'm certainly  not complaining. I worked in a bookstore for almost two years, and seeing  BLACK SPARK, WHITE FIRE, on the shelf and then going to the marketing  section and seeing his WAVE books there blew my mind. That being said, this  is not the work of a dilettante. He lays out his arguments carefully and  with impressive work in extremely primary sources. I've read some shocking  reviews on this page and I'd just like to say, why is everybody so  threatened by the fact that the origins of European civilization might not  have been what we thought? The result is still there, with all its virtues  and vices. You certainly don't have to subscribe to Afrocentrism (as I  don't) to admit that there may have been considerable African influence on  the development of European culture (vice versa has, of course, been  readily admitted throughout the centuries--why shouldn't it be a two-way  street?). Works like Poe's (even if I don't buy all his arguments) keep the  field of ancient history fresh and alive and constantly remind us that we  usually don't get the whole truth, especially when events are thousands of  years gone.	2000-05-05
US	50233598	R3JXF0J40AXVTJ	0394402456	501365983	They Came Before Columbus: The African Presence in Ancient America	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Give Guesswork A Chance	There's been a lot of nonsense written about the \\"truth\\" or \\"falsehood\\" of this book, and whether those who praise it are \\"Afrocentric\\" while those who criticize it are \\"racist.\\" The fact is that there is very little evidence to prove ANY of the common assertions made about ancient history. Yes, Van Sertima's arguments may be inconclusive, but on the other hand, how much do we really know about ancient Egypt, most of our evidence coming from the tombs and temples of the great and well-to-do? Or ancient Sumer, for that matter? The fact is that much of what archaeologists have to rely on is guesswork. They don't have the mass of evidence to know ancient civilizations like we do early modern or our our own present-day global civilization. As for what color or physical type people were, WHAT DOES IT MATTER? Even if his book leaves a great deal to individual interpretation, Van Sertima tells a fascinating story of human beings daring an unknown ocean and interacting with other cultures (and if it's true, then with considerably more benign effect than King Abubakari's European successors). Even if we don't have enough evidence to conclusively prove Van Sertima's theory (hasn't ANYBODY heard of Thor Heyerdahl?), it's certainly plausible and should provide a starting point for some really interesting and original archeological research. And for those who say this book is racist towards Native Americans, I think that they miss the point. Van Sertima is not trying to prove that all Native American culture came over with the Africans. After all, native Americans were here for thousands of years before that. Besides, there's certainly no dishonor in civilizations starting through cultural diffusion. Egypt, Sumer, and the Harappans of the Indus Valley all had regular contact with each other. Anyhow, the Peruvian civilization of Chan Chan was already in existence around 2000-1000 BC. As for the means, Thor Heyerdahl already proved the feasibility of transatlantic crossings with ancient Egyptian maritime technology in 1970 with Ra II. In a similar vein, Richard Poe's BLACK SPARK, WHITE FIRE, provides some interesting theories about cultural diffusion in the Old World as opposed to the new. Put the anger aside, people, and give this book a chance.	2000-05-05
US	50233598	R3FNJOVVHKVK9B	0809015706	999082622	The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Illuminating and in the end unsurprising	Tom Segev's revisionist view of the history of Israeli identity was one of the most fascinating books I've read in a long time. The prevailing mythology of the kinship between Israel and the Holocaust is revealed to be  surprisingly recent, as the Jews who found themselves, all of a sudden, not  an oppressed minority but the pioneers of a settler society, began to look  down on their benighted brethren back in Europe during the 1920s and 1930s  (Jewish literature describing the time, notably Isaac Bashevis Singer's THE  CERTIFICATE, testifies to the powerful pull of the Zionist idea in the  sinister days leading towards Nazism and genocide). Segev's analysis of  Zionist attitudes (as expressed in contemporary newspaper stories and  editorials) during the Second World War is a particular eye-opener, as  there were Jews who actually sympathized with some fascist ideas who got  lost in the swirl of postwar politics. While the Israelis certainly have  more historical right to their homeland than, say, the Afrikaners or  European-Americans (and even that's debatable), it is useful to keep in  mind that the construction of historical mythologies happens in Israel as  it does everywhere else.	2000-05-05
US	50233598	R19JNG7902QH2B	0809015706	999082622	The Seventh Million: The Israelis and the Holocaust	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Illuminating and in the end unsurprising	Tom Segev's revisionist view of the history of Israeli identity was one of the most fascinating books I've read in a long time. The prevailing mythology of the kinship between Israel and the Holocaust is revealed to be  surprisingly recent, as the Jews who found themselves, all of a sudden, not  an oppressed minority but the pioneers of a settler society, began to look  down on their benighted brethren back in Europe during the 1920s and 1930s  (Jewish literature describing the time, notably Isaac Bashevis Singer's THE  CERTIFICATE, testifies to the powerful pull of the Zionist idea in the  sinister days leading towards Nazism and genocide). Segev's analysis of  Zionist attitudes (as expressed in contemporary newspaper stories and  editorials) during the Second World War is a particular eye-opener, as  there were Jews who actually sympathized with some fascist ideas who got  lost in the swirl of postwar politics. While the Israelis certainly have  more historical right to their homeland than, say, the Afrikaners or  European-Americans, it is useful to keep in mind that the construction of  historical mythologies happens in Israel as it does everywhere else.	2000-05-05
US	50233598	R2YUNR5R9EMRMG	0140255273	850437504	Hidden Cities: The Discovery and Loss of Ancient North American Civilization	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The Denial of Ancient America	Here we have yet another piece of history that's been ritually ignored by the arbiters of society and which desperately needs to be taught in American history classes. People nowadays know little about history anyway, but the material in Kennedy's book is one of the first lessons they should  learn (One of the central themes of his book--the denial of marginalized  people's beliefs and achievements--is also found in Howard Zinn's classic,  A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES). While I agree that he could have  gone deeper into the actual culture and practices of the people who built  Cahokia, Poverty Point, Moundville, and Etowah, he did a first-class job of  rendering the conflicts at the highest level over whether we were a solely  European (Anglo-Saxon) or multicultural civilization. I sincerely hope that  at this point we've decided to choose the latter.	2000-05-04
US	50233598	RZCKQSV3TP364	0684818868	458361116	Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Dead Right...	I teach an American history discussion class at an open-admissions university, and, apart from certain problems I have with the class structure, their general disinterest (there are a few people who actually get into the stuff) frequently appalls me. Of course, this lack of interest  in history may make it easier for them to resist our country's peculiar  brand of indoctrination (whenever anybody mentions the &quot;Founding  Fathers,&quot; we're supposed to support what they support--can you do that  if you don't know who the &quot;Founding Fathers&quot; were?), but I doubt  it. This book hit the nail on the head, and should (paradoxically, I guess)  be required in American history classes. One of Loewen's most insightful  moments was in analyzing the way in which history chapters are written;  they're almost always in a &quot;hopeful&quot; tone, as in &quot;Millions  of people died during the Vietnam War, and our President had just resigned,  but President Ford took the oath the next day, and things were beginning to  look up (until 'Whip Inflation Now' and the Mayaguez incident).&quot; I  certainly don't support the idea that our textbooks should be an  unremitting wasteland of misery and squalor, but they could at least  reflect the fact that for a very long time, vast numbers of people in this  country (despite the lottery system of the &quot;American dream&quot;) have  been marginalized and economically oppressed (if nothing else) by a  frequently invisible ruling class. There's nothing depressing in telling  the truth, if it inspires people to look honestly at our society. Isn't  that what history is supposed to be about?	2000-05-04
US	50233598	R38WISG3EHSBEJ	0805050779	581888305	Blood Rites: Origins and History of the Passions of War	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Intensely original	I've long been familiar with Ehrenreich as one of our more sensible columnists, but BLOOD RITES bowled me over. Her argument, that war and the obsession with security from which it arises are part of a &quot;race memory&quot; and traditional holdover from a time when humans weren't quite  at the top of the food chain, explains a lot. For example, there was a  powerful drive in 1914 by European socialist leaders like France's Jean  Jaures to unite the French and German workers in order to deprive their  respective governments of their conscript and volunteer pools. Why didn't  this happen? Workers placed patriotism (admittedly,  workers in Germany got  a better deal from the government at that point than just about anywhere  else in the world) above their common interest. The power of patriotism, as  opposed to idealism, is particularly sinister as it frequently blinds  people to the flaws every country (most definitely including the United  States) has. Ehrenreich goes a long way towards explaining how this emotion  came to have such a powerful hold over the world.	2000-05-04
US	50233598	R1BFYPYUX5Z66V	0684846179	306559860	Big Trouble: A Murder in a Small Western Town Sets Off a Struggle for the Soul of America	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Ambitious and successful epic of American history	I loved this book. Lukas takes an event like the murder of Frank Steunenberg and, like a good and imaginative cultural historian, uses it as a springboard into cunningly disguised racial, class, and gender analyses. I also liked the fact that he demythologized Big Bill Haywood and Clarence  Darrow by portraying them as human beings and not artifacts of Soviet-style  Socialist Realism. His marshaling of evidence to suggest Haywood's  involvement in Steunenberg's murder was particularly impressive. That being  said, though, it does not necessarily follow that Haywood's ends were  anywhere near as despicable as his means (very much the opposite, in my  opinion), and it is ridiculous to assert, as one reviewer did, that  Haywood's beloved &quot;rosy red glow&quot; of &quot;Leninist  Russia...began that country's retreat from modern civilized political and  economic practice.&quot; The Tsarist massacre of peaceful protesters in  1905 St. Petersburg and the pogroms against the Jews (the most notorious of  which took place in Kishinev, Moldavia, in 1903, only two years before the  Steunenberg murder) were no more &quot;civilized&quot; than similar actions  taken by Nazi Germany in 1933-45 and Communist China at various times after  1949. Violence begets violence, a maxim amply borne out by BIG TROUBLE. One  of the great things about this book is that it expands on incidents  revealing the sinister side of American capitalism and the desperate odds  Haywood and his more law-abiding compatriots were up against.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R2A8UPEIITB95N	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	22	30	N	N	BIASED: Aren't we all? ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY: Yes.	Nobody in their right minds would even think of calling this a balanced book. It's not SUPPOSED to be. The best way to use this book is to read it alongside any available U.S. history textbook (except maybe Tindall and Shi's AMERICA: A NARRATIVE HISTORY) and pick out the discrepancies between  the glorious saga of progress and the oppression, &quot;reprisals,&quot;  &quot;removals,&quot; &quot;insurrections,&quot; and  &quot;counterinsurgencies&quot; (let's face it, foreign AND domestic), that  forms the mass of Zinn's American history. Zinn's history starts with the  doomed Native Americans of the Caribbean and ends with an impassioned paean  to us, the &quot;guards,&quot; to think for ourselves and do something  about making our society live up to its never-realized potential. His  revelations concerning pre-Civil War land and labor movements in New York  State and other parts of the country (while most were admittedly drawn from  Philip Foner's labor history) were particularly fascinating. Don't ACCEPT  this book. Nobody wants that to happen. The point of books like these is to  get readers to actually go out and investigate sources and events to get  the real picture. Given the media and government domination of popular  culture and education, this book is probably more important today than it  ever was.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R37XQO5CUECF04	0932813062	214270630	Lost Cities and Ancient Mysteries of Africa and Arabia (The Lost City Series)	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Sublimely Goofy Entertainment	Let's face it: this isn't a very good book. Then again, &quot;Godzilla vs. Monster Zero&quot; wasn't a very &quot;good&quot; (if we must assign labels) movie. Childress, a &quot;maverick archaeologist&quot; who seems to spend most of his time floundering around grimly impoverished Third World  locales and getting nowhere with evasive women at bars, provides an  insanely amusing travelogue of his journeys through the jungles and exotic  landscapes of Africa and Arabia, commenting along the way on the unknown  Atlantean, Lemurian, and other civilizations that flourished once upon a  time and were responsible for the Pyramids, THE MAHABHARATA, and presumably  Jimmy Hoffa's and D.B. Cooper's whereabouts. The most insane thing about  this book is that a lot of it might be true. So far as I know, we still  know very little about the Neolithic era, and the concept of  &quot;lost&quot; civilizations would imaginably appeal to many readers  depressed at the state of the world (including myself). However, I must  agree with the other negative reviewer that Childress offers no convincing  evidence to support his theories (and not very much UNconvincing evidence,  either). The only sources he uses are hopelessly mossbound Victorian  &quot;explorers&quot; (who knows how many African bearers' lives they may  have used up to supply this book with fodder for speculation?) who had  their own &quot;issues&quot; to deal with. Don't even get me started on the  possible cultural-studies implications of this book. That being said, it  WAS a lot of fun, and he does occasionally come up with some exciting  memories and fantastical theories that NEARLY make up for my having read  this book.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R14TGAMD3B36HJ	0684840022	864239842	Rising Tide: The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 and How it Changed America	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Epic Tragedy in the Yazoo Valley	I'm a native Louisianian (Baton Rouge), and this book brings to light a historical event I never really heard that much about growing up, which is strange when you learn that 95% of my living family's from New Orleans. Barry creates a vivid picture of the Deep South in the share- cropper  period (for some people, it was always the Depression) and of New Orleans  and Louisiana before Huey Long, when the state was under the thumb of the  Old Bourbons and still mortgaged to Standard Oil. The different strata of  society affected by the flood are given a good deal of exposure, and Barry  does a good job of linking the Republican Administration's flaccid response  to the catastrophe with the changing political loyalties of sharecroppers  and others. I thought he could have gone deeper with some of his analyses,  and perhaps commented on the similar phenomenon of the present-day  Mississippi changing course, flooding the Atchafalaya, permanently  destroying the wetlands, and perhaps altering the political universe in the  Deep South once more. Altogether, though, this book is definitely worth  reading, for its dramatic retelling of a catastrophic tale and its insights  into 1920s Southern society.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R1KAU78C7UQHK1	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Fun for a few seconds	Being an independent thinker who comes down on the left side more than on the right, it will be no surprise that I'm not a fan of Paul Johnson. However, INTELLECTUALS is useful in that it reminds us that we--especially our most honored literary and cultural figures like Percy Shelley and  Norman Mailer--are all extremely fallible. Of course, that being the case,  what is so unusual about the people he produces as case studies? They lie?  They cheat? There are very few people who do not engage in such activities  at one time or another. The fact that these people were famous and engaged  in left-wing activities seems to be their most outstanding vice, according  to Johnson. Apparently this makes them more egregious than individuals like  Augusto Pinochet, or Newt Gingrich, who served his wife with divorce papers  as she was dying of cancer. Another problem I have with the book is that  there is very little new information to be gleaned. It will surely come as  no surprise to anybody who has ever had the dubious pleasure of reading a  Hemingway novel that he was a compulsive liar. Johnson's message seems to  be that we should just keep to ourselves and not try to make the world a  better place. In my book, THAT's a vice.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R161GNB25ACI3Q	0878059164	617154577	Lords of Misrule: Mardi Gras and the Politics of Race in New Orleans	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Down and Dirty	Until I was sixteen, I went to Mardi Gras every year. I was therefore fascinated to read James Gill's account of the twisted and bizarre history of New Orleans' biggest tourism cash cow (albeit one which should not be kept alive through longstanding racist shibboleths), and see what sort of  political and social struggles underpinned the history of the old-style  Krewes (which, incidentally, I never got to see, my family--and eventually  myself--preferring the big flashy ones like Endymion and Bacchus). Gill's  accompanying history of New Orleans is even better, yielding many  interesting and little known facts. Unfortunately, one gets so wrapped up  in stirring episodes like the checkered postbellum career of James  Longstreet that the occasional Mardi Gras asides actually get to be  irritating (which surely was not the point of the book). Fortunately,  Gill's concluding focus on the &quot;battle for Mardi Gras&quot; between  Councilwomen Dorothy Mae Taylor and Peggy Wilson brings the story into an  exciting present day context which will be unsurprising to anyone familiar  with the running circus of lunacy that is Louisiana politics (although it's  nice to have confirmation that female politicians can be almost as boorish  and intolerant as male politicians). This book, along with John Kennedy  Toole's A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES and Jerry Strahan's MANAGING IGNATIUS, is  essential reading for anyone looking to learn about New Orleans.	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R2TOEBCMXIYNTZ	0767903242	360172180	Managing Ignatius: The Lunacy of Lucky Dogs and Life in New Orleans	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Please NOTICE the vendors!	Being a frequent visitor to the French Quarter (having been born and bred in Baton Rouge), and violently adoring A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES, I was fascinated to read this book, especially as it was written by a historian most well-known for his book on Andrew Jackson Higgins and his development  of the LSTs used at Normandy. Strahan's picture of New Orleans nails the  truth on the head, but the best part of this immensely entertaining book is  the insight one gains into the life of the guys (and gals) who guard the  dog carts (with undoubtedly more success than Ignatius himself).	2000-05-03
US	50233598	R1CJOSWIMYNEX8	0801491088	353535748	Nationalism and Revolution in Indonesia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Unexpectedly exciting	The Indonesian struggle for independence and survival in the tricky geopolitics of Cold War Asia is an extremely important historical topic, and one could do a lot worse than start with this book, which originally  came out in 1952. George McTurnan Kahin spent a couple of years in the late  1940s in Indonesia doing research, fortuitously during the most tumultous  years of the Netherlands Indies' struggle to become Indonesia.  Incorporating not only secondary and primary sources, but also his own  experiences, Kahin analyzes the colonial history of Indonesia and recounts  the exciting story of its independence movement. Leaders like the  fascinating Sjahrir (oddly, Soekarno does not nearly get as much airplay as  some might think appropriate) come alive and frequently provide a personal  context for the road to freedom for one of Asia's most important countries.  While Kahin's book is obviously dated, it's still a useful and interesting  text with which to begin a study of Indonesia, Southeast Asia, or postwar  nationalist movements in general.	2000-05-02
US	50233598	R4RBAE0CB2N07	0231106505	320410962	History in Three Keys: The Boxers as Event, Experience, and Myth	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Livin' day by day	Cohen's book analyzes a particularly notorious (for Chinese and Western commentators) historical event--the Boxer Rebellion in North China (1899-1900) from an extremely fresh perspective. It is hardly  poststructuralist to assert that people live history one day at a time,  rather than according to some grand plan, and that is how Cohen treats the  Boxer Rebellion. Most Western scholars merely see the Boxers as a  manifestation of an irrational, bloodthirsty xenophobiba, while Chinese  scholars seem to fall into two categories: (1) those like the early  twentieth century modernizers who saw the Boxers as an embarrassment to the  cause of national unity and freedom, and (2) those like Communist Chinese  historians who see the Boxers as a precursor of their own victorious  struggle in 1949. Cohen masterfully demythologizes the Boxers and puts them  into the context of (gasp!) their own lives. Working from a combination of  secondary and primary sources, Cohen reconstructs the domestic situation in  China during the late nineteenth century and argues that domestic issues  (particularly famine and floods) more than anything else prompted the Boxer  uprising. This thesis, of course, turns on its head the idea that the  Boxers were an instrument of the evil Dowager Empress Cixi in order to  prevent Westerners from disturbing China's ancient and corrupt culture.  Cohen is especially interesting in examining the mechanics and experience  of mythmaking, applied in this case to the Boxers but which could be  applied to just about any event or experience that has emotional or  subjective importance for a group of people. This book is extremely useful  for anyone, history students or otherwise, who are interested in Chinese  history, or perhaps more fundamentally, how we reconstruct the past in  order for it to make sense.	2000-05-02
US	50233598	R2AOA1PCGCP0TB	0679758909	421298531	Covering Islam: How the Media and the Experts Determine How We See the Rest of the World	Books	4	22	27	N	N	An Inquiry Into the Origins of &quot;NIGHTLINE&quot;	Edward Said has long been one of my favorite authors when it comes to commenting on the difference between perception and reality, especially vis-a-vis the &quot;Western world&quot; and the Middle East. I read  &quot;Covering Islam&quot; after &quot;Culture and Imperialism,&quot; and  it was refreshing to see Said apply his conclusions from his literary  criticism to modern journalism and pop culture. His analysis of how  NIGHTLINE became a hit due to the 1979-80 Tehran hostage crisis was  particularly illuminating. As anybody who's ever seen any American movie  dealing with the Middle East or terrorists, the attitudes Said describes in  his book are still very much with us today. I give this book four stars  simply because I would like to see it updated in the aftermath of the  growth of domestic American terrorism (Oklahoma City, Operation Rescue and  its more zealous advocates, and even Columbine) and how those developments  cannot be easily dismissed by blaming them on common Arab (or Iranian)  stereotypes. This book is a prime example of cultural studies at their  best.	2000-05-02
US	50233598	R22MNSDW7YZP4U	0472083422	792926979	The Forgotten Army: India's Armed Struggle for Independence, 1942-1945	Books	5	14	14	N	N	&quot;JIFs&quot; or Freedom Fighters?	The Indian National Army, and its operations with the Japanese in the Burma theatre of operations during World War II, was long a controversial subject between Indians and British, and generally regarded with curmudgeonly disapproval by the British. The fact is that the issue of  collaboration was probably more complicated in the Asia-Pacific theatre  than it was in the European theatre. Experiencing the colonial rule of the  British, French, and Dutch, many Burmese, Malays, Vietnamese, Sumatrans and  Javanese saw the Japanese as colonial liberators. Even in the Philippines,  under an allegedly benign American rule, much of the legislature stayed on  to work under the Japanese. The Germans, of course, used peoples like the  Lithuanians and Ukrainians in order to carry out the &quot;Final  Solution&quot;, but the situation was somewhat different. Asian  nationalists struggling for independence, largely along lines laid for them  by Western educations, found themselves betrayed by Western colonial  empires who were committed to holding on at all cost (or so they thought  until 1942). Fay's book provides a case study of one of the most famous (or  notorious) instances of collaboration in the  Asia-Pacific theatre. He  examines the history of the Indian National Army (derogatorily referred to  by the British as &quot;JIFs&quot;--Japanese Indian Forces) through an INA  perspective, specifically in interviews with Prem and Lakshmi Sahgal, a  husband and wife who found themselves in Singapore in 1942 when the British  surrendered to the Japanese--Prem as a captured officer, and Lakshmi as a  doctor. Both, disillusioned and fed up with years of British promises of  independence that grew consciously or unconsciously caught up in red tape  and official footdragging, decided to join the Japanese-affiliated force of  Indian soldiers that would reclaim India for the Indians. The rest of the  story should be read through their words, providing a much needed other  side to the story of the Indian struggle for independence.	2000-05-02
US	50233598	R21D1YUTG4EVIB	0394751728	442795076	War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Momotaro vs. Uncle Sam	A well-written, engaging,and illuminating account of how the Pacific War, which had been going on since 1931 (some might argue since 1895, when Japan defeated China in their struggle for control of Korea and Taiwan), became  embroiled into the larger world conflict and how American and Japanese  cultures dealt with it. The examination of ethnocentric stereotypes is  superb. One would think that those who know anything about World War II in  the Pacific from the American point of view would be aware of the  anti-Japanese stereotypes (in, for example, the propaganda films of Frank  Capra). As a result, Dower particularly fascinates with his analysis of  Japanese propaganda (the familiar folk tale of Momotaro the Peach Boy  having a more sinister underside than I was aware of, reading it in first  grade) which might not be very well known to most American readers. This  book should be suggested for any class on the Twentieth Century, and  required for any class on World War II or the Pacific War in particular.	2000-05-02
