US	50234196	RGMTHTS3KI04M	0060577231	446828968	Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Healthiness: Dr. Dean's Commonsense Guide for Anything That Ails You	Books	1	9	23	N	N	Too superficial to be worthwhile	Name a topic. ANY topic. Type that into a search engine, and you can learn far more in a few minutes than you can from Dr. Edell's superficial treatment of too many topics in this book. Edell is a generalist, not a specialist. As such, he knows a little about almost everything, and evidently not much about anything. In fact, Dr. Edell seems to possess a gift for superficiality. (Perhaps because he has been doing his radio show for so long, since radio hosts generally tend to gloss over topics to &quot;keep the show moving.&quot;) I've read similar books of equal length by other authors, and even though they covered just as many (or more) topics as Edell did, they managed to convey some useful, in-depth information. Dr. Edell seems to have difficulty expressing himself concisely, which explains why he can say so little in so much space.<br />This book will likely sell well because Edell is famous and has a radio show in which he can, and does, frequently plug the book. If he were an unknown doctor, few people would read this book, and even fewer would like it. Many of you Dr. Edell fans will undoubtedly give this book five stars and rave about how good it is, not because the book is truly good (to think that, you'd have to be delusional or oblivious to other books that do a MUCH better job of educating readers), but because you like Dr. Edell. Well, so do I, because his radio show is, despite its equal superficiality, more palatable than other programs in that time slot. I purchased this book thinking that it would give Dr. Edell a forum to discuss things in more depth than he can on radio. Obviously, I was very disappointed. Edell is clearly more interested in selling books than taking the time to write something that is worthwhile to read.	2004-02-21
US	50234196	RO43SDQIQRZGU	0061096970	99871544	Eat, Drink, & Be Merry: America's Doctor Tells You Why the Health Experts Are Wrong	Books	1	15	43	N	N	&quot;Eat, Drink, and Be Misled&quot; would be a more accurate title	The primary flaw of this book is that it is dry, dull, and inexcusably boring. It drones on in the classically condescending &quot;I know, you don't&quot; style that Edell uses in writing and during his radio shows. Furthermore, Dr. Edell dogmatically delivers opinions that are superficial, misleading, and sometimes patently false. I am a physician who is, within my field of expertise, considerably more knowledgeable than Dr. Edell. Some of his statements in that field are so off the mark that I feel like screaming &quot;you idiot!&quot; and wishing that he would retire so that a better doctor could take his place.<br />Edell fancies himself as a supremely logical person. He is, at times. At other times, he can be very illogical and boldly proclaim things using logic that would earn him an &quot;F&quot; in a college logic course. However, his arrogance apparently prevents him from considering that he may be wrong.<br />Years ago, I was a fan of Dr. Edell. I don't know if my perception of him changed because he is getting worse, or if it just seems that way when I learn more about medicine and realize that his advice is too frequently pathetic.	2004-02-10
US	50234196	R3A0NF1QBHBSWC	0399525173	549370277	The Thinking Woman's Guide to a Better Birth	Books	1	15	232	N	N	A misleading title, and a biased book	I think this book will primarily appeal to women who wish to validate their bias toward vaginal birth. However, if your mind is already made up, why buy the book? If this were truly \\"The Thinking Woman's Guide to a Better Birth,\\" the author would present the pros and cons of vaginal delivery versus C-section, and leave the decision up to you. Instead, she rabidly tries to cram her opinions down your throat. If she had her facts straight, I could tolerate such an adamant stance. However, she is clearly and unconscionably misinformed. For example, she contends that vaginal birth does not damage the pelvic floor. Is she delusional? There is an overwhelming amount of scientific evidence to support that it does. Furthermore, I am a surgeon who has performed countless operations to repair this pelvic floor damage. It is obvious that this is associated with vaginal childbirth, NOT C-sections. Furthermore, as a man, I know that vaginal childbirth can induce permanent and undesirable changes in the vagina. That is something the author is oblivious to. If this were a perfect world, I suppose men wouldn't care about such a thing, but the fact is they do. Women can ignore this, but only at their own peril. Men, being men, generally don't feel comfortable enough to discuss this with their partners if it's a problem. Instead, they'll often look for a greener (can I say tighter?) pasture. You can blame men for being so shallow, but women are just as focused on pleasure. Women gossip so much about \\"a man's size\\" that this intimately personal subject is now an accepted part of our culture that can be cavalierly broached in magazines, books and on television with no one blinking an eye about it. My point? Women care just as much about pleasure as men do, and when it comes to determining sexual pleasure, a man's size is no less important than vaginal tightness, which can be permanently affected by vaginal delivery. Even if this does not concern you, you probably will be bothered by the other side effects of vaginal delivery, such as urinary stress incontinence and a dozen other problems. Hence, I feel that propagandists for vaginal delivery, such as Henci Goer, are doing a great disservice to women.	2002-11-16
US	50234196	R2O9FFQ7FXVO5Y	0688172253	549547314	I'm Not in the Mood: What Every Woman Should Know About Improving Her Libido	Books	2	74	82	N	Y	Disappointing	In reading dozens of books on sex, I've noticed that books written by MD's are usually much more informative than books written by others.  Hence, I wasn't surprised that Reichman's book was better than the typical book espousing scented candles, dim lights, and other such glib superficialities as the panacea for all sexual problems.  That said, I was nevertheless disappointed by this book.  There were too many factual errors and inconsistencies in it (as a doctor, I think I'm qualified to say that).  Even some drug names were misspelled -- not a big deal, perhaps, but if a doc can't correctly spell the name of a drug, one wonders if commensurate care was given to the other facts presented.  In this case, I was disappointed.  The professionalism of the book was further eroded by Reichman's frequent puns and attempts at interjected humor.  I have nothing against doctors showing their human side, but when Reichman did it, it seemed stilted, not natural.  I could excuse all of these drawbacks if the book were packed with more information, but its scope was very narrow and there was so much the author could have said that she did not.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R38C920FLLVUX1	0879837624	125182903	Male Sexual Fitness	Books	2	11	20	N	Y	Superficial	This is a very brief, superficial book that has one redeeming feature:  it's inexpensive.  If price is your foremost criterion, buy this &quot;book.&quot;  If you're more interested in content, choose another title.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R33CZLELKZ2394	0446671800	430353235	Flirting for Success: The Art of Building Rapport	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Disappointing	Seduced by the hype and Spiegel's gorgeous face adorning the book's cover, I purchased this book.  It wasn't worthless, but its substantive content was very disappointing.  I kept thinking, &quot;Sans her famous name (remember the Spiegel catalog?) and sans the good looks she was born with, could she still have achieved what she has?&quot;  Jill Spiegel is such a dynamo that when I saw a video of her giving a seminar I wondered if she naturally has such a high level of energy or if she achieved it through pharmacologic manipulation.  Frankly, most of us aren't so incandescent . . . so, back to my original question.  Minus the famous name, minus the natural beauty, and minus the unfathomable energy level, could the rest of us substantially benefit from her techniques as presented in the book?  I don't think so.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R32KI8NQ3XBW93	0805064052	156136527	For Women Only: A Revolutionary Guide to Reclaiming Your Sex Life	Books	2	34	39	N	N	Mediocre, bland, and sometimes inaccurate	Given that this book was written by a urologist (Jennifer) and a sex therapist (Laura), I thought it would be highly informative.  I've read worse books, but this one was far from the best.  My primary complaint is that its scope of coverage was too limited.  Secondly, there were some shocking errors in it.  Here's one: \\"Testosterone is also available over the counter in the form of DHEA ...\\"  WRONG!  I'm a doctor and an endocrinologist who feels that any \\"doctor\\" making such a statement needs to return to medical school!  Here are the facts:  (1) DHEA is one of the precursors to testosterone.  (2) DHEA may or may not be converted into testosterone in the body.  (3) DHEA may also be converted into estrogen, which can oppose the effects of testosterone.  Therefore, it is inaccurate (and grossly misleading) to imply that DHEA is a form of testosterone.<BR> <BR>I also didn't like the monotonous, too-detached tone of this book.  Perhaps that's the way the Bermans attempted to project an air of professionalism, but rather than coming off as professional, the book just seemed to lack vibrance.  Therefore, it wasn't enjoyable to read.  Its insipid nature would have been tolerable if there weren't those glaring factual errors -- I apologize for harping about them, but such mistakes are (or should be) an embarrassment to the authors.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R2A1XTKCP50M1W	039952746X	13147975	Sexual Fitness	Books	1	2	3	N	Y	One of the worst books I've read on this subject	I can't believe that anyone would think this book was worthy of printing.  The author's goal seemed to be filling the pages, not giving useful information.  Perhaps the publisher felt that people would buy the book just because its title contains the word \\"Sexual.\\"  As far as content goes, the book was shockingly disappointing.  In comparison to other books in this genre written by physicians, this book is so Mickey mouse that I can't believe its author, Wuh, is truly a doctor.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R36SXER5IY9J4A	0399147160	13147975	Sexual Fitness: 7 Essential Elements to Optimizing Your Sensuality	Books	1	10	13	N	N	One of the worst books I've read on this subject	I can't believe that anyone would think this book was worthy of printing.  The author's goal seemed to be filling the pages, not giving useful information.  Perhaps the publisher felt that people would buy the book just because its title contains the word \\"Sexual.\\"  As far as content goes, the book was shockingly disappointing.  In comparison to other books in this genre written by physicians, this book is so Mickey mouse that I can't believe its author, Wuh, is truly a doctor.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	R25ZWC9J5PZDTS	0805069267	156136527	For Women Only: A Revolutionary Guide to Reclaiming Your Sex Life	Books	2	98	106	N	Y	Mediocre, bland, and sometimes inaccurate	Given that this book was written by a urologist (Jennifer) and a sex therapist (Laura), I thought it would be highly informative.  I've read worse books, but this one was far from the best.  My primary complaint is that its scope of coverage was too limited.  Secondly, there were some shocking errors in it.  Here's one: \\"Testosterone is also available over the counter in the form of DHEA ...\\"  WRONG!  I'm a doctor and an endocrinologist who feels that any \\"doctor\\" making such a statement needs to return to medical school!  Here are the facts:  (1) DHEA is one of the precursors to testosterone.  (2) DHEA may or may not be converted into testosterone in the body.  (3) DHEA may also be converted into estrogen, which can oppose the effects of testosterone.  Therefore, it is inaccurate (and grossly misleading) to imply that DHEA is a form of testosterone.<br />I also didn't like the monotonous, too-detached tone of this book.  Perhaps that's the way the Bermans attempted to project an air of professionalism, but rather than coming off as professional, the book just seemed to lack vibrance.  Therefore, it wasn't enjoyable to read.  Its insipid nature would have been tolerable if there weren't those glaring factual errors -- I apologize for harping about them, but such mistakes are (or should be) an embarrassment to the authors.	2002-04-05
US	50234196	RV16DX1GN9IW2	0374525951	569455970	Walking Out on the Boys	Books	5	20	25	N	N	The sordid truth about the abuse of power in medicine	Men groping women.  Men coming on to women, and making incredible jackasses of themselves in the process.  Men getting drunk and acting like barbarians.  Men with one thing in mind.  Men whose compulsion to talk about sex is so strong that they do it at highly inappropriate times in public.  Men who think that pressuring women is their God-given right.  If you think that what I just described is a high school football team on an overdose of steroids, you're wrong.  These sexual antics weren't perpetrated by adolescents with testosterone bubbling out their ears, they were committed by male doctors at Stanford University.  Not being stupid, these demigods put two and two together and realized that they could use their power to pressure women.  One of these men made a fatal mistake, though:  he pressured Dr. Frances Conley, a topnotch neurosurgeon and renowned researcher at Stanford.  Bad move, fella.  I suppose that guy never learned that if you're going to pick a fight, you don't provoke someone who can whack you back so hard you just might rethink whether it's wise to be a bully.<br />As publicity spread about Dr. Conley's fight, more and more women came forward to reveal their stories.  This was certainly an eye-opening book.  Before reading it, I'd never given much thought about the sexual harassment of women in medicine and allied healthcare fields.  Perhaps we're more civilized here in Michigan, because I've never seen or heard of any such hanky-panky.  Well, let me revise that last statement:  I have witnessed a lot of sexual inducement, but what I saw was women chasing men not the other way around.  But everyone knows that those California folks are trendsetters.<br />Dr. Conley never envisioned herself as a trendsetter, though.  For years, she passively participated in the abuse until a concatenation of events convinced her that it was time to draw a line in the sand.  To make a long story short, the men didn't believe she'd put up much of a fight, but she did, and they lost.  Big time.<br />(...) Perhaps the most chilling message in this book is that some men in positions of power are willing to use that power to stifle the careers of women.  So what is an attractive woman to assume?  That if she goes into medicine her pulchritude will serve as a magnet for sexual harassment?  Perhaps this abuse is, unbeknownst to me, more pervasive than I think.  I suppose because most of my friends are women, I can't understand men who view women as being somehow inferior.  However, you shouldn't necessarily construe from that statement that I think women physicians are as competent, on average, as male physicians.  There's no doubt that some are, and there's no doubt that Dr. Conley is a superior physician, not just competent.  (...) My only major criticism of the book is that it is too focused upon abuse of women by men.  Since the core of this book is hinged upon some of the depredations that ensue when power is abused, I think she could have achieved a more balanced perspective by pointing out that powerful people often use their power against men, too  not just women.  I've seen male docs fight one another with such a vehemence that it made the stories in Dr. Conley's book seem as pleasant as afternoon tea and cookies with a neighbor.  Consequently, while I don't intend to trivialize the unfortunate reality of the abuse Dr. Conley documents, it's important to keep in mind that this abuse is but one aspect of a much larger problem.  In defense of Dr. Conley, broadening the scope of this book to include other aspects of hospital politics would have diluted the message she wished to inculcate, and it would have made for a very unwieldy book.  With that in mind, I suppose I'm on shaky ground by wishing that her book had a wider focus.  Her book, her demeanor, her dedication, her resolve, and her competence are commendable.  Dr. Conley is a great doctor and I am happy to have met her, however indirectly, by reading this book.<br />Review by Kevin Pezzi, M.D.	2001-11-27
US	50234196	R7I0LPY66KV20	0882822055	206048982	ER - Enter at Your Own Risk : How to Avoid Dangers Inside Emergency Rooms	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Take it from an ER doc:  this is a book you must read!	If you're like most Americans, it won't be long until either you or someone you love becomes a patient in an emergency room.  And, if you're like most Americans, you will blindly trust the doctors and other ER personnel to provide optimal care.  That might be a reasonable expectation in a perfect world, but we don't live in a perfect world.  We live in a world in which the quality of emergency care is considerably variable from one hospital to another and from one practitioner to another and even from one minute to another.  Are you willing to cross your fingers and hope that everything goes well?<br />Fortunately, you need not leave your fate to chance.  If you follow the advice given by Dr. Cohen, you can become an intelligent participant in your care and proactively take steps to reduce a myriad number of risks, any one of which may put you at increased risk of death or disability.  Or you can play the blame game, in which you or your survivors point fingers in a courtroom.  That's great for lawyers, but is it good for you?  Obviously not, if health means more to you than money.  Malpractice attorneys like to justify their existence by believing that they're performing a useful public service:  namely, punishing doctors for real or imagined errors and thereby enhancing the quality of medical care.  In theory, that sounds great.  In reality, that system just isn't effective.<br />If everyone read and followed the advice in this book, Dr. Cohen would do far more to enhance the delivery of first-rate emergency healthcare than every malpractice attorney in this country.  Collectively, Dr. Cohen's advice could save billions of dollars and an untold number of tragedies.  I don't know of any other book that offers so many helpful ER tips.  If you don't read this book, some day you will probably wish you did.  Even though I'm an ER doc, I learned some helpful things from Dr. Cohen.  His splendid advice could help so many people in so many ways.  Do yourself a favor, andread this book.<br />Review by Kevin Pezzi, M.D., author of &quot;Believe It or Not! True Emergency Room Stories.&quot;	2001-11-24
US	50234196	R3ASEYCMMSYBBB	1552095037	632542140	Trauma Junkie: Memoirs of an Emergency Flight Nurse	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Nonstop action that's bound to capture your interest	Even though I'm an ER doctor and I've called in my share of medical helicopters to evacuate severely injured people to specialized trauma centers, the sound of a helicopter landing on the ER helipad always cranked up my pulse by a notch or two.  Aircraft of any sort are exciting, and so are emergencies.  Combine the two into a book, and it's bound to be interesting.  Is this book?  Yes.  The author does a good job of immersing you in her stories, and once you begin reading this book you probably won't want to put it down.  Not all of the book concerns her experiences in the CALSTAR air ambulance service; some of the material recounts her career as an ER nurse.  Nevertheless, I found that material equally interesting.  The only criticisms I have of the book (both of which are very minor) are: 1) The author tends to pull her punches.  It seems to me that many authors are afraid to say what they really think for fear of offending some readers who possess contrasting viewpoints.  I prefer that authors speak their minds, especially when their opinions were shaped by the experiences they're describing.  When I began working in the ER I had virtually no opinions, but after a decade in the ER cauldron I've developed some very strong opinions.  Likewise, most ER personnel I know harbor similar opinions that they're not shy about relating to one another, but when most of those folks sit down to write a book they clam up and sterilize their work. 2) The author describes the personality and appearance of several co-workers in her book, and in the center of it there's a group photo of the CALSTAR gang (in color, nonetheless).  However, there isn't any accompanying caption to explain who is who.<br />Notwithstanding these minor flaws, Hudson produced a commendable book.  In my opinion, this book is one of the best books in this genre. I've read every book that is even remotely related to emergencies, and many disappointed me because they have little to offer besides an attractivecover and catchy title. In contrast, Hudson's book is filled with nonstop action that's bound to capture your interest.  (Review by Kevin Pezzi, M.D., author of \\"Believe It or Not! True Emergency Room Stories\\")  Since my review is quite complimentary of her book, will you please leave in the \\"Review by Kevin Pezzi, M.D., author of Believe It or Not! True Emergency Room Stories\\" part?  Thanks!	2001-05-22
US	50234196	R1IGATP10V5KPV	0898799376	215491433	Code Blue: A Writer's Guide to Hospitals, Including the ER, OR and ICU (Behind the Scenes)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Interesting and informative guide	\\"Code Blue\\" is a great introduction to hospitals for anyone interested in this topic. While the book's title suggests that it is intended as a tool for writers, I think that many other people would like to have a more comprehensive understanding of the practice of medicine in this venue. This book has been criticized by other readers, and the common thread in their dissatisfactions seems to stem from the fact that this book doesn't offer a detailed explanation of everything that might possibly occur in a hospital. If such a book were to exist, it would be infinitely long and comparably expensive. Working within the bounds of practicality, I think that Drs. Wilson and Page have done a superb job of providing an overview of this subject. If you're looking for highly detailed knowledge on a specific subject you will likely need to perform further research, but that should not be construed as being a criticism of this book. Bottom line: A well-written and informative guide that will give you an insider's view of hospitals. (Review by Kevin Pezzi, MD [...], author of \\"Believe It or Not! True Emergency Room Stories\\" and \\"Fascinating Health Secrets\\".)	2000-11-03
US	50234196	R35Y7J4QSFOPLT	0805065970	48240440	The Blood of Strangers: Stories from Emergency Medicine	Books	3	6	9	N	Y	Sometimes a first-rate book, and sometimes it's anything but	The stories in this book are frequently not about emergency medicine which I found difficult to excuse because of the fact that this is a short book which was stretched to 154 pages only by the use of tiny pages, acres of white space, and w-i-d-e line spacing.  However, I don't valuate books based upon their weight or word count; I judge them by whether or not they're filled with intriguing stories and are well-written.  This book has a few poignant or interesting stories (the best of which was about a kinky, drug abusing female neurosurgeon), but many of its stories left me muttering to myself things such as &quot;So what?&quot; or &quot;What is so interesting about that?&quot; or just plain &quot;What?&quot;  One of the reasons I was so perplexed by some of the stories in &quot;The Blood of Strangers&quot; is because Huyler occasionally displays a true gift for writing but at other times uses such awkward, almost incomprehensible phraseology that his writing is about as readily understood as an instructional manual written in English by a technician from China who received a D- in his one and only class in English.  As you will quickly see if you read this book, Huyler loves to flitter back and forth from one element in a story to another.  At times his use of this literary technique is superb, while at other times it appears almost scatterbrained.	2000-11-02
US	50234196	R1NDFYEXCXVENJ	0062736884	810786535	Better Sex Naturally: A Consumer's Guide to Herbs and Other Natural Supplements That Can Jump Start Your Sex Life	Books	1	2	13	N	Y	Disappointing lack of credibility	While the primary author is a degreed naturopath, more than a few people believe that advice given by an MD is more credible than that given by an ND.  One might think that naturopaths would give better advice on herbs, but this book is not a testament to that supposition.  For example, the author recommends a dose of ginkgo that would induce unpleasant side effects in some people, not to mention a risk of death.  The author's scientific knowledge is not up-to-date; for example, he has a poor understanding of which endocrine organs manufacture testosterone in women.  He also demonstrates a distressing amount of naivet by falling for the concept of &quot;tonic&quot; herbs in which a given herb can supposedly produce antithetical effects depending on the needs of the patient who takes it.  Apart from these scientific faux pas, the book has a lot of insipid content and not much useful information.	2000-10-18
US	50234196	R4Q73A37QW6WL	0446524239	838250901	Just Here Trying to Save a Few Lives: Tales of Life and Death from the Er	Books	2	18	24	N	N	Occasionally interesting but often depressing	While the middle third of this book is interesting, the rest of it is rather dull and depressing.  That's not surprising since the author's pilgrimage was precipitated by her melancholy and disappointment with life as an ER physician in America.  As an ER doctor, I can certainly sympathize with her discontent, but I am nevertheless shocked that such a glum book was published.  Although it is true that any accurate portrayal of ER medicine is bound to include much negativity, Dr. Grim (how utterly apropos, by the way) could have tempered her pervasively gloomy account with an occasional ray of sunshine.<br />In addition to making readers reach for their Prozac, there's a lot about this book that I didn't like.  First, the quality of writing was annoying.  Second, I repeatedly had the feeling that her smattering of interesting stories were overly embellished and hence not entirely believable.  Third, Dr. Grim leaves readers wondering if she's still working in the ER or is now doing hair transplants.  The central question in this book is whether Grim can shake her disaffection with ER medicine and keep working in that field, or whether she decides to accept a job offer from a friend to perform hair transplants and other cosmetic procedures.  Fourth, this book is by no means a complete or even passably complete narrative of what it is like to be an ER physician.	2000-10-14
US	50234196	R1JA09FYME0B4P	1889462071	927210733	Sex Pills A-Z: What Works & What Doesn't	Books	1	3	3	N	Y	Tiresome focus on ineffective supplements &amp; biased approach	This is a drab book that gives tiresome discussions of one thing after another that isn't helpful while ignoring many things that are useful.  While there is some merit in discussing ineffective sexual adjuncts, I believe that readers would prefer to read about things that DO work.  This book is published by Advanced Research Press (ARP)... Perhaps not surprisingly the author touts what ARP is hawking; there is even an advertisement in the book.  The professionalism of this book is further tarnished by the inclusion of too many corny pictures showing an over-muscled woman and man striking unnatural poses on the beach.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R1F5FT1DIE14FJ	0962741825	587412895	Better Sex Through Chemistry: A Guide to the New Prosexual Drugs & Nutrients	Books	1	11	19	N	N	Lack of credibility a serious flaw in such a book	Neither author evidently has any professional degree or apparent qualification to write a scientific book.  I think that most readers would find them to be considerably more credible if they had such a degree, especially in view of the fact that Morgenthaler and Joy frequently foray onto (and beyond) the fringes of scientific knowledge.  Such speculation would perhaps be tolerable if it were being espoused by someone who had a solid base of scientific training who had very sound reasons for conjecturing in this manner; it is difficult if not impossible for a reader who has no scientific background to judge whether or not the speculations of authors who have no scientific training are credible.  The cover art and one of the fonts used in the text of this book can be best described as comical; they further detract from the credibility of the book.  The authors demonstrate poor judgement in praising certain substances such as GHB, the infamous date rape drug.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R10YW4EI0MRLQT	1890572012	287196615	The Smart Guide to Better Sex: Supplements & Herbs to Fire Up Your Sex Life	Books	2	4	6	N	Y	Lack of credibility a serious flaw in such a book	Neither author evidently has any professional degree or apparent qualification to write a scientific book.  I think that most readers would find them to be considerably more credible if they had such a degree, especially in view of the fact that Morgenthaler and Simms frequently foray onto (and beyond) the fringes of scientific knowledge.  Such speculation would perhaps be tolerable if it were being espoused by someone who had a solid base of scientific training who had very sound reasons for conjecturing in this manner; it is difficult if not impossible for a reader who has no scientific background to judge whether or not the speculations of authors who have no scientific training are credible.  The cover art and one of the fonts used in the text of this book can be best described as comical; they further detract from the credibility of the book.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R270ND0R6UQIG0	0312963416	879197556	Sexational Secrets: The Ultimate Guide for Erotic Know-How	Books	1	8	34	N	Y	Insultingly simplistic	This book is replete with fluff and not an ounce of scientific or even quasi-scientific knowledge.  Instead, the author tells men how to masturbate and kiss, and her other advice is equally lacking in novelty.  An average person would prefer a discussion of more substantive topics which may impart knowledge that the reader was not acquainted with decades ago.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R130JOD3QOTIET	0874777240	521998981	Love Potions	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Surprising errors by an MD	The primary appeal of this book is that it presents many recipes for compounding aphrodisiac elixirs.  People who like to cook and bake will likely have some fun trying these, but most of the concoctions are questionably effective and call for ingredients that are not easily obtained.  The authors present some good advice, a lot of wacky information, and some &quot;facts&quot; that are clearly wrong.  For example, the authors state that both sarsaparilla and wild yams contain &quot;precursors to increase production of testosterones&quot; (sic).  They also mention using sarsaparilla as a &quot;safe replacement for anabolic steroids in building muscle.&quot;  I've been lifting weights and reading about this topic for over 25 years, and every author who has discussed sarsaparilla has dismissed its usefulness.  Simply put, scientists know that the chemicals in sarsaparilla and yams cannot be converted into hormones in the body.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R3CSG0AN23ZECJ	0895295652	38377285	Sexual Nutrition (A Dr. Morton Walker Health Book)	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Incorrect information and an inexcusable number of errors	The author is a former foot doctor who delivers advice that ranges from totally inaccurate to just plain bizarre.  As examples of the former, he espouses phosphorus as being one of the premier aphrodisiacs and he states that DHT (dihydrotestosterone) is an enzyme.  Wrong on both counts.  DHT is a hormone produced by an enzymatic reaction; it is not an enzyme itself.  Furthermore, he spells dihydrotestosterone as &quot;dihydroxytestosterone.&quot;  Use of incorrect nomenclature makes one wonder if he's truly a doctor of any sort-or if he is, his level of competence.  And that gaffe about phosphorus being an aphrodisiac?  Simply ridiculous!  People have as much need for more phosphorus in their diets as they have a need for more refined sugar and saturated fat.  Phosphorus is no more of an aphrodisiac than is water.  Unfortunately, his pseudoscientific opinions are the high point of this book.  The author has some rather peculiar ideas about sex, such as his precopulatory rituals that would be more appropriate for a warlock than a doctor.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R2IUO2E9BY1Q4W	0874777240	521998981	Love Potions	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Occasionally interesting but too many substantive errors	The primary appeal of this book is that it presents many recipes for compounding aphrodisiac elixirs.  People who like to cook and bake will likely have some fun trying these, but most of the concoctions are questionably effective and call for ingredients that are not easily obtained.  The authors present some good advice, a lot of wacky information, and some &quot;facts&quot; that are clearly wrong.  For example, the authors state that both sarsaparilla and wild yams contain &quot;precursors to increase production of testosterones.&quot;  They also mention using sarsaparilla as a &quot;safe replacement for anabolic steroids in building muscle.&quot;  I'm a medical doctor who has been lifting weights and reading about this topic for over 25 years, and every author I've read who has discussed sarsaparilla has dismissed its usefulness.  Simply put, scientists know that the chemicals in sarsaparilla and yams cannot be converted into hormones in the body.  It is unacceptable for an M.D. to make such egregious errors.  When the author presents such unreliable information, it makes me wonder if her other information is equally shaky.	2000-09-28
US	50234196	R1PEVZL8GACO20	0425165809	764823313	Sex: a Man's Guide	Books	1	12	16	N	N	Breadth, not depth	This book covers a wide variety of topics. That's good if you want to know a little bit about just about everything, but I would greatly prefer more  expansive coverage of some of the more interesting aspects of sexuality.  For example, the book covers &quot;opening lines,&quot; sperm banks,  infidelity, back pain, pillow talk, and several other less-than-riveting  topics while giving short shrift to aphrodisiacs, pheromones, and  techniques of increasing sexual pleasure. Besides being maddeningly  superficial, some of the information is just plain wrong. For example, the  authors mention using wild yams as an aphrodisiac. That's ludicrous.  Apparently the authors' knowledge on this matter is not up-to-date, because  the old supposition that yams contain a chemical (diosgenin) which can be  converted into progesterone in the body has been refuted by countless  medical doctors and biochemists. Even if such an endogenous transformation  could be effected, progesterone is not a hormone that can increase a man's  libido! If I want to hear groundless myths, I can speak with my locker room  buddies; when I'm paying for a book, I expect facts instead of a rehash of  tired old myths.	2000-09-20
US	50234196	R2SSEWBQIINAU2	0722536976	518416499	Increase Your Sex Drive	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Disappointing lack of credibility	An author's credibility is key, and &quot;Doctor&quot; Brewer decimates her credibility by presenting her readers with unscientific hogwash. That's unfortunate, because there ARE many things that can heighten libido. Brewer ignores those things which have scientific merit and instead concentrates on quaint but inaccurate folklore.	2000-09-20
US	50234196	RFEDB71HXCXDE	0806519975	922159391	Aphrodisiacs: A Guide to What Really Works	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Take it from an MD:  this is scientific nonsense	When people become sexually aroused, they exhibit certain physiological signs such as flushing, increased heart rate, and sweating. Some people who were--oh, how can I phrase this nicely?--not at the top of their class have speculated that artificially increasing one or more of these INDICES of arousal will somehow increase arousal and satisfaction. Ridiculous! When you drive your car its speedometer needle moves, but if you push the speedometer needle with your finger it won't budge your car one inch. That's obvious, correct? Well, this author evidently has little conception of logic and physiology, because he thinks that using niacin (one of the B-vitamins) to induce a flush can increase sexual pleasure. Wrong. If anything, taking niacin will just make you itchy and prickly for a few hours. Is that conducive to sex?	2000-09-20
US	50234196	R3JV6ZBLHZYVKI	0875964583	764823313	Sex: A Man's Guide	Books	1	39	42	N	N	Breadth, not depth	This book covers a wide variety of topics. That's good if you want to know a little bit about just about everything, but I would greatly prefer more  expansive coverage of some of the more interesting aspects of sexuality.  For example, the book covers &quot;opening lines,&quot; sperm banks,  infidelity, back pain, pillow talk, and several other less-than-riveting  topics while giving short shrift to aphrodisiacs, pheromones, and  techniques of increasing sexual pleasure. Besides being maddeningly  superficial, some of the information is just plain wrong. For example, the  authors mention using wild yams as an aphrodisiac. That's ludicrous.  Apparently the authors' knowledge on this matter is not up-to-date, because  the old supposition that yams contain a chemical (diosgenin) which can be  converted into progesterone in the body has been refuted by countless  medical doctors and biochemists. Even if such an endogenous transformation  could be effected, progesterone is not a hormone that can increase a man's  libido! If I want to hear groundless myths, I can speak with my locker room  buddies; when I'm paying for a book, I expect facts instead of a rehash of  tired old myths.	2000-09-19
US	50234196	R8ZBLLT6Y2NPB	0452272580	525434670	A Not Entirely Benign Procedure: Four Years As A Medical Student	Books	2	11	26	N	N	Disappointing	I bought this book because author Perri Klass has somehow acquired a stellar reputation as a medical author.  The operative word in the preceding sentence is &quot;somehow,&quot; as I'm sure you noticed.  This  namby-pamby book is a reasonably accurate but dull rendition of what it is  like to be a medical student, but the book is more about Klass' circuitous  introspections and exhausting analyses than it is a book of interesting  stories.  In fact, I was so disappointed by this book that I re-read Klass'  submission in &quot;Emergency Room-Lives Saved and Lost: Doctors Tell Their  Stories&quot; to see if her book may have been an aberration of her youth,  similar to Crichton's &quot;Five Patients.&quot;  Bottom line:  The  scorecard?  Klass is now 0 for 2.	2000-05-06
