US	50235163	RRTSGNBYPZ9TO	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent biography of Stalin but not definitive	This biography is excellent in portraying Stalin's character and what live was like for those who had the fortune/misfortune to live in close proximity to him.  The author has added to the knowledge about Stalin both by his access to materials in Soviet archives, and his interviews with children of persons in Stalin's circle, or in a few cases, with individuals who worked with Stalin and were still alive.  The result is a more complete depiction of Stalin as a human being, instead of a villain out of a bad thriller.   <br /> <br />The author is not a revisionist.  If he shows Stalin being kind on individual occasions, he also shows him having hundreds of thousands murdered, including many people who were personal friends.   <br /> <br />I don't give the book five stars because the author assumes the reader knows about larger issues such as the conduct of World War II, the ideological battles among the Bolsheviks, and the consequences of Stalin's policies among the population.  Of course, if this had been done, the book would have been much, much longer. <br /> <br />In fairness, the author acknowledges that Stalin's drive for collectivization led to famines that killed millions, but this is disposed of in a few sentences.  In contrast, the effects of Stalin's paranoia on the Bolsheviks is given greater detail.  It's important to remember that many of the upper level officials that Stalin had killed or imprisoned were themselves responsible for summary execution of innocent people who were deemed wreckers or opponents of the regime. <br /> <br />Finally, the book is extremely well written -- not the work of a dry academic.  Anyone who finds this era fascinating should follow-up with additional books about Stalin and his lieutenants.	2004-07-25
US	50235163	RUD1B7PUC8X70	0345461622	197047472	Pandora's Star	Books	5	163	184	N	N	Space Opera at its most extreme	Most readers know Peter Hamilton from his Night's Dawn trilogy, published in this country in six volumes.  Pandora's Star is the first volume in another sprawling (and I do mean sprawling) series.  The book begins with the discovery that two distant linked solar systems have been isolated by a force field.  Because the observation is made visually, this means that the event occurred hundred of years ago.  This event leads the Commonwealth, an organization of the human planets, to investigate.  Whoever could put a force field around such a tremendous area would be very possible.  And what is the motive?  Is the force field meant to keep others out, or those living in the system in?  <br />In a break from Hamilton's early books, as Pandora's Star opens, humanity does not use star ships for faster than light travel.  Rather, wormholes are used to link distant worlds.  Thus, one of the first things that must be done is to build a ship capable of faster than light travel.  Other aspects of Hamilton's future are near-immortality, a terrorist group obsessed with the idea that an alien has taken over the government, and various alien races that seem indifferent to human population, and whose motives are not apparent.  <br />Those who've read Hamilton's Night's Dawn trilogy will not be surprised at his practice of introducing many characters and separate plot lines that will (one hopes) converge eventually.  Some of these plots are so separate from the main plot as to seem to exist only to establish background of the characters.  Indeed, at time the books seems to consist of short stories set in the same future but having no other connection.  For example, we follow a police inspector investigating a 40 year old murder case relates to the main plot in a tangential (at best) way.  This means that some of the characters can disappear for hundreds of pages at at time.  While this can be irritating, the diversity of Hamilton's plotting makes it work for me.  I much preferred this book to his last one, Fallen Dragon, which was (for Hamilton) quite focussed on mainly one character.<br />That Hamilton could produced two different but richly detailed visions of the future in Night's Dawn and Panddora's Star is very impressive.  I hope he can keep this up.<br />I have one complaint about Hamilton's style that might strike others as pedantic but it drives me crazy.  He consistently links independent clauses not with a conjunction, but a comma.  To some extent this method duplicates the way people actually talk.  However, he's been doing it from the beginning of his career, and having read thousands of pages of his, I am beginning to get tired of it.  <br />Of course, it is hard to judge a trilogy by the first book.  No matter how good it is, one's opinion of it will be affected by later installments.  In Night's Dawn, Hamilton painted himself into a corner with his plot, and the ending was not entirely successful.  Fallen Dragon's ending had even more of a deus ex machina quality.  We'll have to see about this one.  Pandora's Star ends with a huge cliffhanger that will have readers waiting for the next installment.	2004-03-24
US	50235163	R2D3V57VTT7WM	0375703683	638814949	The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy	Books	4	100	102	N	N	Excellent, detailed history of decline of aristocracy	David Cannadine is probably the leading historian of the British aristocracy and landed gentry.  The readers of this book will fall into two classes (1) serious historians of the period, and (2) readers of English fiction from Trollope to Waugh who would like to know more about the aristocracy. The latter may find parts of this book heavy going.  Cannadine is concerned with the history of a class, and individuals are discussed to illustrate his points.  Additionally, a working knowledge of British political history of the period covered (1870-post WWII) is presumed.<br />Having said that, I found the book well written and thoroughly researched.  Cannadine's work is too complex to be reduced to a short summary, but basically the aristocracy found itself beset on all side from around 1880 onward.  A prolonged agricultural depression lowered their incomes, and created political pressure to break up the big estates.  The increase in the franchise and the end of pocket boroughs undercut their power in the House of Commons. This in turn led to the aristocracy being abandoned even by the Tory party, which realized where the votes were.  Ever increasing estate taxes (especially during and after World War II) approached confiscatory levels, requiring families to sell off their land.  And many aristocrats found themselves completely unable to cope with those changes.  Those who could cope did so largely by breaking the mold of the landed aristocracy of tradition.<br />Anyone looking for a &quot;Brideshead Revisted&quot; view of the aristocracy will be disappointed.  But anyone who wants to know the pressures on the real-life equivalents of the characters of Waugh or Trollope will be greatly informed by this book.	2004-03-10
US	50235163	ROURUHCY9ARKH	0374299862	480290555	The Havana Room	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Interesting, but not totally successful novel	If you look at the reviews for this book, you will conclude that it must either be a masterpiece or a waste of paper.  It is neither.  Harrison has a lot of interesting ideas but does not, in my opinion, totally pull them off.  The book is narrated by Bill Wyeth, whose rapid descent from a successful New York real estate lawyer to near bum is covered if the first chapter.  Through a terrible mistake, for which he is not responsible, a child dies, and his powerful father uses his power to ruin Wyeth.  In quick succession, he loses his job, his wife, and access to his son.  <br />When he has reached the bottom, he wanders into a steak restaurant that seems to be an island of sanity in a world that has turned on him.  He develops a crush on the woman who runs the restaurant, Allison Sparks.  There is a mysterious room which is invitation-only that fascinates him but to which he cannot gain access.  Then one night he is asked by Allison to help her boyfriend, Jay Rainey, close a real estate deal.  He does, reluctantly, and as a result, (1) finds himself doing things that, while not clearly criminal, could be and (2) starts being threatened by a series of thugs for reasons he cannot understand.  All of this leads him to uncover Jay Rainey's secrets as a way of saving himself.<br />The obvious influence on this book is the Great Gatsby.  Rainey shares a first name (Jay) with Gatsby, an obsession with trying to reclaim the past, and a possibly criminal background. Indeed, Wyeth comes on a list of activities made by Rainey of what to do each day that is almost identical to a list made by Gatsby, although for different purposes.  Of course, nothing is what it seems a first or even second glance.<br />By the end of the book, Harrison is tying up numerous plots, including Rainey's past and future, and the mysterious Havana Room.  I found the resolution somewhat forced.  Additionally, I often figured out what was happening well before the narrator, which is annoying.  The secret of what goes on in the Havana Room was a let-down. And the ending was a little too hopeful for what had gone before.<br />Nevertheless, this book is not a waste.  Harrison is trying to write more than a run of the mill thriller.  The use of the Gatsby theme is effective, and the ultimate secrets about Rainey's past are moving.  Violence plays a part in the book, but it seemed realistic in that it was not carefully thought out but almost accidental.  While the book is not perfectly plotted, it offers the reader interesting characters who, like Gatsby, are pulled back into the past.	2004-03-03
US	50235163	R16CF7DO84OY62	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A brillant thriller	Paranoia by Joseph Finder is a terrific success. The main character is Adam Cassidy, a twenty-something slacker at a tech company.  He prides himself at doing as little work as possible, spending his days surfing the web.  He gets carried away, and as a joke sets up a retirement party for a blue-collar worker that costs $76,000 (but as you read the book, you question whether it was really a joke, that Cassidy might not recognize his own motivation).  He tries to lie his way out of the mess, but his boss spots the lie and gives him a choice -- become an industrial spy for the company or be prosecuted for embezzlement and other crimes.  Of course he becomes a spy.<br />Cassidy is set up to be hired by a competitor of his company, with instructions to find out about a revolutionary new project.  He finds that, unlike his old company, the company he's spying on is run by a real pioneer who cares about people.  Caught between his growing admiration for his new boss and his fear of what his old boss will do to him, Cassidy tries to satisfy both, something that is clearly impossible and yet emotionally makes sense.<br />Plausibility is something that trips up many thrillers.  The author seems to present solutions to the obvious objections that would arise as to how Cassidy pulls off impersonating a highly skilled executive when he's lived his working life as a slacker.  Part of the answer is that he gets daily briefings from his old company on how to deal with problems at work.  The rest of the answer is that he's smarter than he seems; he's clearly a chronic underachiever.  Faced with a real challenge, he becomes in some ways a better person even while he is lying and breaking into people's offices.<br />Many thrillers have become the literary equivalents of action/adventure movies.  That is, gunplay and violence are the way tension is generated.  Here there is very little violence, and Cassidy engages in no superhuman feats of strength or courage.  The most dangerous hedoes (physically at least) is to use window cleaner equipment to rapel down the outside of a building.  He also hides in a closet for several hours, not exactly a heroic act.  Finder is such a skilled writer, however, that the efforts of Cassidy to fake skills he really doesn't have generate more suspense than the gunfights that fill most books.<br />Finder wastes nothing.  Cassidy has an dying father who was not that great when he was younger, but now as he is dying is almost a monster under the influence of the drugs he must take and his looming death.  That Cassidy puts up, as much as possible, with his father humanizes someone who otherwise might be a contemptible character.  And it also ties neatly into the ending.<br />The ending of the book is brillant, and avoids (as so much of the rest of the book does) the easy cliches of a typical thriller.  While it in no way suggests a sequel, the ending leaves me wanting to know what Cassidy does with his life.  Others may disagree, but in some ways his experience should leave with the knowledge that he is a stronger and better person that he first appears.  But whether he knows that or not is open to debate.  This book is the rare combination of intelligence and suspense.  I highly recommend it.	2004-02-25
US	50235163	R3DO98I6SJVQ4Z	0385336667	530810768	Persuader (Jack Reacher, No. 7)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Well plotted, with nice plot reversals	This is the seventh and latest in Lee Child's Jack Reacher series.  Reacher is a former military cop who reached the rank of major before before let go in the downsizing of the '90s.  He has a total indifference to possessions, and travels around the country staying in cheap hotels.  <br />The Reacher novels are successful because Child is usually good at plot twists and reversals.  Although Reacher's background is in police work, much more emphasis is put on his combat skills, which seem to equal Delta Force.  Persuader begins quickly with a kidnapping and shootout.  Reacher quickly finds himself infiltrating a smuggler's household where he will be killed if discovered.  Child pushes the limits of plausibility at times -- Reacher seems to be without fear and sticks around when a more sensible person would run -- but stays within the limits enough that I could enjoy the book.  <br />Persuader plays to Child's strengths in that the plot keeps moving quickly enough and throws the reader off guard that the momentum covers up any small errors.  If you are looking for a thriller with plenty of action, this book does the job nicely.	2004-02-22
US	50235163	R3I9QVBZA8AINL	0515130974	1083226	Running Blind (Jack Reacher, No. 4)	Books	2	16	18	N	N	The weakest in the Jack Reacher series.	Lee Child has written seven novels about Jack Reacher, a former military cop with formidable combat skills.  The strength of the Reacher novels is the plotting; Child is excellent at throwing red herrings and plot reversals in to keep the reader off-guard.  The results are usually effective thrillers, with plenty of action.<BR>Running Blind fails as a thriller.  All of the Reacher novels, indeed just about every thriller, have inconsistencies, coincidences, or illogical behavior by the characters.  In effective thrillers, the force of the plot pushes the action at such a pace that the reader doesn't care about these problems.  After all, no one readers a thriller for realism.  Here, Child's plot has women who were sexually harassed being killed under bizarre circumstances, with no obvious cause of death, and without the killer leaving a trace of how the crime was committed.  Enough clues are given that most readers will realize who the killer is and how the killer pulls it off half way through the book.  And the means used to pull it off would not be believed in a comic book.  The sheer impossibility was so great that once I realized what the answer was, I skipped to the end of the book to confirm my belief, and then gave up on it.  Child painted himself in a corner with this book that he had to rely on something that might have been used in the B movies of the thirties, but is ridiculous today.  I suggest skipping this book and going with the rest of the series.  Certainly, any one who has not read the other Reacher books should avoid this one -- they may be so put off by the absurd ending that they will not read the others and thus miss some great thrillers.	2004-02-22
US	50235163	R1V580CHIFPBWU	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	20	25	N	N	You will not believe how bad this book is.	The Da Vinci Code is really two different books pushed together.  One of the books is awful and the other is unbelievable.  The awful part of the book is the thriller.  The main characters, like all main characters, are trying to uncover a mystery while be chased around by an appropriately bizarre killer (a super-strong albino Catholic fanatic).  This part relies on some of the oldest cliches in mystery/thriller writing, including the dying man leaving obscure clues as to who killed him instead of just writing the killer's name.  He supposedly doesn't do the latter because the killer might be watching him, but his behavior in leaving clues behind is so bizarre that if his killer was watching he would have to realize something was going on.<br />For a thriller to work, we need to care something about the characters.  That's impossible here because the main characters have no personalities.  One is a man and one a woman, but there doesn't seem to be the slightest thing interesting about them.  They are in no way distinctive human beings.  There are comic book characters with more depth than the ones you find here.<br />Thrillers of course turn on the characters trying to uncover some mystery, or acquire something that someone evil wants.  That gives the writer the excuse to have his characters being chased around, shot at etc. until the conclusion.  Alfred Hitchcock famously referred to the thing that is being fought over as a &quot;McGuffin.&quot;<br />Normally no one cares that much about the McGuffin.  Here, the McGuffin takes over the entire book.  The McGuffin here is the Holy Grail, which is very different than any would think who knows it only from Arthurian romances.  And it is Brown's explication of what the Holy Grail &quot;really&quot; is about that is driving the sales of the books.  Brown bases his theory on sources that have been known to be false for centuries.  However, it appeals to a certain segment of the population, and most people will uncriticly accept what he has to say.  For anyone with access to archives of the New York Times Book Review section, I suggest that they read the back of the Book Review for 2/22/04 for more on Brown's sources.<br />Normally I wouldn't care about what wacky McGuffin the characters in a thriller were chasing -- I like the X Files for years without ever believing in aliens -- but here it is Brown's statements about the Holy Grail that are responsible for the success of the book.  This success is not deserved.<br />I gave this book 1 star only because Amazon does not allow you to give a book no stars.y accept what he has to say.  For anyone with access to archives of the New York Times Book Review section, I suggest that they read the back of the Book Review for 2/22/04 for more on Brown's sources.<br />Normally I wouldn't care about what wacky McGuffin the characters in a thriller were chasing -- I like the X Files for years without ever believing in aliens -- but here it is Brown's statements about the Holy Grail that are responsible for the success of the book.  This success is not deserved.<br />I gave this book 1 star only because Amazon does not allow you to give a book no stars.	2004-02-22
US	50235163	R2R08IIQZRN019	0375760318	971899716	Lit Life: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Funny, sad first novel on lives of New York writers	Lit Life is Kurt Wenzel first novel, and is centered on three characters:  Kyle Clayton, whose first novel was a huge success, but has written nothing else for years; Richard Whitehurst, who is called America's most underrated writer, having failed to achieve success despite a lifetime of hard work and respectable reviews; and Whitehurst's wife Meryl, who after decades of marriage to Whitehurst sees their relationship dying as a result of the writer's failure to achieve the success he has dreamed of.  Clayton and Whitehurst could not seem more different -- Clayton has spent the years since his first novel getting drunk and chasing women, while Whitehurst has shown an almost monkish dedication to his work, to the point that he is alienated from his wife and daughter.  However, the differences between the two result in a relationship.  Clayton has long admired Whitehurst's work, and Whitehurst admires Clayton's work and envies his fame.  By the time the two meet, that fame has gone sour -- Clayton finds himself listed in an article in New York magazine as one of the 100 most obnoxious New Yorkers.  Whitehurst persuades Clayton to spend the summer with him in the Hamptons, and this intrusion into Whitehurst's settled life has consequences that no one could have expected.<br />This description of the plot makes the book sound like grim reading.  It is not.  Clayton's escapades at throughout the book, as he gets drunk, behaves (at times) badly, and ponders the possibility of agreeing to product placement in his next book are all very funny.  The last idea is not as fanciful as it sounds; a noted British novelist agreed to such a deal (I don't know if Wenzel anticipated it or not).  While Wenzel has some interesting things to say about the life of a writer, he does so in a way that has broad appeal -- this is not a navel-gazing book.  And Wenzel is quick to see the humor in his other charactes as well.  The book is best described as a satire.<br />Wenzel is a highly skilled writer.  He moves the vantage point of the novel from Clayton, to Whitehurst, and to  Meryl to show how the characters view themselves and each other.  This is an effective way to flesh a character out.  And Wenzel handles his three main characters well -- none of them are stereotypes.  <br />The book moves smoothly from comedy to tragedy, with an very effective ending.  I look forward to Wenzel's next book.	2004-02-18
US	50235163	R18W8MLJ9XKVXU	0375414983	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Brilliant use of real events for an imaginative novel	My Life as a Fake springs from a real life event.  After World War II, two conservative poets in Australia who disliked contemporary poetry (Eliot, Pound) decided to pull a stunt on a literary magazine -- named Angry Penguins (what a great name).  They wrote poetry in the modern style (in one case transcribing an army pamphlet on mosquito control into verse, an example that is repeated here) and submitted it under a false name to the literary magazine, whose editor became convinced that he had found an Australian genius, and published the poetry.  They came forward, everyone laughed at the editor, and he was prosecuted for publishing obscenity.<br />Peter Carey takes this episode and uses it to write a novel that is funny, grotesque, and tragic.  Set decades after the hoax was exposed, the novel is narrated by a middle-aged editor of another literary magazine who meets the originator of the hoax, and becomes convinced he has in his possesion great poetry.  But who wrote it?  The hoaxer, Chubb, seems incapable of such great work.  Complicating things are that somehow the person he invented as the author of false poems, Bob McCorkle, has come to life as a real person who haunts his creator in the manner of Frankenstein's monster.  The narrator hangs around Chubb trying to get the poetry, and having to listen to his life story -- never knowing what's true or not. Thus, he has done far more than take the real events and make minor changes to produce a work of fiction.  <br />The book works both on the level of the story it tells, and on the level of the issues it raises.  Perhaps the most important is the relation of art to its creator.  Could great poetry be created by someone who had the intention of writing bad verse?  Certainly that is what some think happened in real life.  The two poets who pulled of the hoax on which this book is based never wrote anything as good as the &quot;false&quot; poems they wrote as a joke.  <br />This book was a finalist for the Bookerprize.  The judges for this prize (they change each year) have shown consistent ability to pick books that are both readable and intelligent.  If you like this book, you might try Carey's book on Ned Kelly, which won the Booker prize.	2004-02-15
US	50235163	R2X3LKHC7XKQUV	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	1	33	52	N	N	This form does not play to Koontz's strengths.	Odd Thomas is a very jarring novel to read.  Koontz has chosen to write in the first person, trying to give a voice to a 20 year old high school graduate with supernatural powers.  The problem is that Koontz has no skill at approximating the speach of a 20 year old.  At times the character sounds like he's 12, at times 40, at times like he is from another planet.  Some of this can be defended by the weird experiences of the character, particularly those involving his psychic powers.  But even so, he should sound at least somewhat like a real person.  The dialogue of his girlfriend is just as bad.  The awkwardness of was so great that I found the book hard to finish.<br />The plot is also predictable.  There was only one plot twist I did not see coming, and since it doesn't occur until two thirds of the way through the book, it was hard to stay interested.  The evil of the villains is just assumed -- you hardly get to know them and so their motivation is described in a couple of paragraphs at the end of the book.  Given the enormity of what they try to do, and their ability to plan so long to carry out their goals, you would expect to know more about them.  But then Koontz may not have anything to say -- fleshing these characters out may have been too difficult.  Finally, Odd Thomas's psychic powers seem arranged to avoid thinking of ways around plot difficulties.  Whenever Thomas needs to know something, he has a power that allows him to do so.  When it is important that he be in the dark, he finds his powers limited.<br />Koontz does deserve some credit for trying something new.  While I felt that the form of the book doesn't work, Koontz is trying to stretch himself and not write the same book over and over.  Also, Thomas mostly gets by on his psychic powers; although he uses physical force on two occasions, he doesn't do anything that remarkable in either case and thus is believable.  In other words, he is not, in addition to being psychic, an action hero.  <br />For those of you who agree with the generally favorable reviews of this book, it looks to me that this could be the start of a series.  So if you like this sort of thing, you may see more of it.	2004-01-23
US	50235163	R1ON95ENY3AA8F	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Sprawling is not the word for this book and series.	I have read all of Stephen King's other books, including the earlier volumes of the Dark Tower series.  As much as I like King, the Dark Tower series -- particularly the last two -- could use some serious editing.  The Wolves of Calla has three plot lines going.  Of these one -- the confrontation with the wolves of the title -- is resolved in this long book.  The other two are left hanging in midair at the conclusion.  This is frustrating, even though King has stated he has written the remaining two books in the series in rough draft, and they are to be released in 2004.<br />It's interesting to contrast this book with King's excellent &quot;On Writing.&quot;  One would have to conclude that Wolves of Calla should be much shorter.  Far too much of the story is dragged out at extreme length; in &quot;On Writing,&quot; King advised that a second draft should always be 10% shorter than the first draft.  If he followed this rule, then I would hate to see the first draft of Wolves of Calla.  Indeed, the entire series has been written at great length.  <br />It would be one thing if the book ended with a well-written confrontation with the Wolves.  However, that confrontation is disposed of in a few pages, despite the hundreds of pages leading up to it.  King really doesn't seem interested in it.  At one point, Roland says that the shooting will be over in 5 minutes, and that seems accurate.  King's real interest here seems to be setting up plots for the upcoming two books.  <br />However, I am not saying that this book is a waste of time.  Anyone interested in the series will have to read it.  And there are sections that are well-written and engage the reader.  I never had much of a desire to put the book down.  When I did finish it, however, I did not take much from the book. And economy has never been one of King's virtues.  He seems to enjoy cramming his novels with as many incidents as possible, even if they stray from the main plot line. I have often found these tangents, while stucturally awkward, one of the pleasures of reading King.  Sometimes they work here, sometimes they don't.  <br />Certainly King is stretching himself in the Dark Tower series.  If this were the only thing he had ever written, I would expect he would have had difficulty in getting it published.  This is not a criticism of the series; much of the problem would have been his original mixture of Western and Fantasy elements in the same book.  Most publishers want fiction to fit neatly into genres, and King refuses to do that.<br />Anyhow, while this book is an improvement over its predecessor in the series, it hardly ranks with King's best.  It's worth a read, if only to keep up with the series -- which will be an amazing length when completed.  Let's hope he returns to form for volumes VI and VII.	2003-11-28
US	50235163	R1DNME6ZS0XP85	0743238087	191061509	Havana: An Earl Swagger Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Strong entry in Earl Swagger series	In an afterword, Hunter explains that he got the book from his well known editor, Michael Korda. Korda gave it to him in four words: &quot;Earl Swagger in Havana.&quot;  This allows Hunter a rich set of characters to draw on, such as Castro and Meyer Lansky.  It also allows him to throw Swagger into a multi-sided situation -- the CIA and Cuban government, the gangsters with ties to both the CIA and the Government but pursuing their own interests as well, and the Soviets, with their interests in creating unrest.  Castro plays an important role as a bumbling revolutionary with a gift for speechmaking, some courage and not much else (I doubt that this is an accurate picture of Castro).  Swagger is brought to Cuba on pretext, as a body-guard for a ridiculous Congressman and his aide -- the real reason is that the CIA wants to have Swagger kill Castro.<br />What follows is typical Hunter, gun battles with the weapons described in detail; Hunter's odd ability to create tension by describing events out of chronolocial order (you'll read a vague description of what happened, followed by a flashback that shows what actually happened); and Earl Swagger's ability to one-up any man around him. John Wayne would have loved to have played this character.<br />There's more humor in this book than usual; an argument between between the terrified Congressman and his even more terrified aide when under fire had me laughing out loud.  Castro is also a subject for many jokes, although whether this is deserved or not I can't say. Hemingway makes a brief, but disastorous cameo that unfortunately is in keeping with his behavior, particularly at that time.<br />I find Earl Swagger a more interesting character than his son, Bob Lee, who was the subject of Hunter's first three novels in the Swagger series.  Bob Lee was laconic to the point of making Clint Eastwood in his early westerns sound like a chatterbox.  Earl is not much more talkative, but our knowledge of his hard life (see Hot Springs) and his desperate hope that his son will have an easier life (of course he won't) gives him more depth than one would expect for a thriller hero.  There is also the knowledge that, unless Hunter engages in a major rewrite of history, that he does not have long to live.  Hunter killed off Earl Swagger in 1955 in his first appearance, Black Light.  <br />For those who have read other Swagger books, you will find Hunter reusing to good effect a character from prior books. Frenchy Short is back, and is as devious and crooked as ever. He hero-worships Earl but doesn't hesitate to try to have him killed to serve his own purposes.  The Congressman who Earl acts as a bodyguard for is Harry Etheridge.  At a later point, Etheridge tells Earl that if Earl signs on the CIA their boys can be friends (the chronology on this won't work but Hunter has admitted that to revising the chronology between books).  In fact, Etheridge's son will be the cause of Earl's death and will be involved in trying to kill Bob Lee.  Finally, a Soviet spy named Pashin has the same last name as a former spy about to become President of Russia in A Time to Kill, but different first name.  However, the character in Havana claims to have many relatives in Soviet intelligence, so maybe they are related.  <br />I'm no gun expert, but did spot a couple of small mistakes Hunter makes.  Frenchy Short inexplicably switches guns within a few pages -- Hunter is always very specific about the guns his characters carries.  Also, a Russian involved in the Spanish Civil War contempously compares Sherman tanks to the German tanks he saw in Spain.  Hunter is thinking of the Panther and Tiger II tanks used by Germany at the end of World War II; those used in Spain may have only been equipped with machine guns. <br />While I gave this book four stars (it would have been 3 and half if Amazon allowed this), I have to wonder what Hunter will do next.  A fourth Earl Swagger book will be hard to write; Hunter's done aboutas much with this character as he can.  It may be that he goes to a stand-alone book like Dirty White Boys orginally was (it was later written into the Swagger books in a way that explains the great Lamar Pye's gunfighting skills. Too bad about Lamar; he's my favorite Hunter character of all time).  In any event, I look forward to whatever Hunter produces next.  He's shown a sure sense when to move on, as he did when he wrote the first real Earl Swagger book Hot Springs, one of his best.	2003-10-13
US	50235163	R3VHGQIRHB6IVS	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Clancy's efforts to carry on the Ryan series don't pay off.	The Teeth of the Tiger represents Clancy's effort to get himself out the corner into which he has painted himself in the Jack Ryan novels.  By making Ryan the President, Clancy made it impossible for the character to move around and pull of the heroics of the earlier books.  In Rainbow Six, Clancy turned to John Clark and kept Ryan offstge.  Here, he swtiches the focus to a new generation of characters -- two nephews of Jack Ryan and Ryan's son, Jack Jr.  While this a good idea -- none of the original characters were getting any younger -- the plot of The Teeth of the Tiger strains plausibility, even for a thriller.<br />In his earlier books, Clancy portrayed the CIA as highly capable. Now it is described as bureaucratic nightmare, incapable of fighting terrorism.  Instead, now former President Jack Ryan (before he resigned the Presidency for reasons that aren't clearly explained) created a self-supporting, very small organization designed to identify and kill terrorists.  Ollie North testified that William Casey actually considered the same idea -- he thought that by taking the profits from Iran-contra, he could create a version of the CIA that got no federal funds and thus could function without Congressional oversight.  Here, the organization that is created is so small that it is ludicrous to conclude that it could accomplish anything.  The organization gets its information by evesdropping on NSA-CIA traffic.  Somehow, two or three people (most of the time one person, Jack Ryan, Jr.) is able to ferret out of this immense amount of information the names and location of terrorists.  And then the organization's two (yes, two) field agents are able to quickly find them and kill them.<br />The book is filled with other implausibilities -- to get Jack Ryan Jr. involved in the action, it is suddenly decided the two agents need backup, although they've had no problems up to that point. Junior is sent to back them up even though he has absolutely no field training.<br />Readers should be aware that this book appears to be the first in a series; much of the first third is spent setting up plots for which there is no resolution, and the main villain has not been identified by Ryan Jr. and company by the end of the book.<br />There are a few set pieces that Clancy will enjoy -- a shootout in a mall, the details of how people can be smuggled in the U.S. and other examples of Clancy's research.  But if this had been Clancy's first book, I don't think he would have had much of a career.	2003-08-20
US	50235163	R3G7EGNZNWPBIH	0399150439	893493496	Naked Prey	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Solid entry in the Prey series	Naked Prey is the latest of John Sandford's Lucas Davenport series.  Davenport has a new job for the governor that sends him off to a remote area of Minnesota to investigate a suspected lynching of a black man and white woman.  One unfortunate result of the setting is that few of the regular series characters are in this book, and with one exception, those that appear do so briefly.<br />Sandford breaks with the formula that has so often served him well in the past -- Davenport versus a killer (who may or may not be identified to the reader) with each making move and counter-move against one another.  Here, Davenport actually solves the initial crime early in the book.  However, the samll town near the crime scene has a lot of secrets that continue to propel the plot.  At times, the characters are driven by mistakes and misunderstandings as to what is actually happening -- which is close to the way things happen in real life.  Sandford also has a good feel for Midwestern characters and the way they talk.  The dialog is sharp throughout the book.  <br />If you like the Prey series, you will want to read this book.  I don't rank it at the top of the series because of some plot holes that occur early in the book.  Without giving the plot away, the first killing occurs because the killer has learned the names of his victims from someone else who he has killed before the book has begun.  How he found this person, who should have been otherwise unknown to him, is not clear.  Also,this person gives him only some but not all of the names of the people he would be looking for -- again, no explanation.  However, Sandford keeps the plot moving quickly enough that this problem is quickly forgotten.  Too bad that it is a year before another Prey novel comes out.	2003-05-15
US	50235163	R2E4ETAX3VF28F	0679442871	688790502	Deep in a Dream: The Long Night of Chet Baker	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Well written but not enough about the music:	Deep in a Dream is a thoroughly researched and well written biography of Chet Baker.  Baker was a one of the leading stars of West Coast jazz in the 50's and early 60's, and as he played trumpet, was at times held up as a white version of Miles Davis.  This comparison was unfortunate; although gifted with a natural talent, Baker never matured into a major figure like Davis, and the one time they played on the same bill, Davis's group blew them away.  Baker was also blessed with model-like looks (although by the time he died, he looked like a walking corpse), and often sang in an androgynous, subdued voice that many people found very moving.  (Matt Damon imitates this in the Ripley movie, where he sings a Baker standard, My Funny Valentine, in the style of Baker.)  Unfotunately, as this book documents thoroughly, Baker was a heroin addict for most of his adult life, and cared much more about getting drugs than anything else.  Not surprisingly, this led to a downward spiral in his career.  By the early 1960s he was getting bad reviews in the US, and relocated to Europe, leaving his family behind.  He toured widely there, and became something of a cult figure.   <br />Baker's life does not make for pleasant reading.  He used people whenever he could, paid no attention to his children (other than to steal his son's trumpet on a rare visit home), and recorded primarily to get money to fund his drug habits.  Since he always needed money right away, he usually signed away royalties in return for an advance.  This left him perpetually broke.  Eventually he died under mysterious circumstances (probably suicide) in Holland.<br />James Gavin has talked to just about everybody that had contact with Baker, as well as researching reviews of his performances and records.  Gavin is clearly taken with Baker's music but does not hesitate to repeat the sometimes vitriolic reviews Baker received.  As depressing as Baker's life is, Gavin has not written a slash and burn biography designed to show his subject as an awful person.  His judgments seem quite fair.  However, I would have liked more discussion of Baker's music -- what made his playing and singing popular even today.  There is some discussion of this but not enough to convey why we should care about Baker as an artist.  This book makes an interesting contrast with two biographies of Baker's contemporary Bill Evans (My Foolish Heart and Everything Happens to Me), who may have been as big a drug user, but whose biographies mention his drug use in passing and concentrate almost entirely on the music.  The Evans's biographies probably go too far in neglecting his messy life, but they still do a good job of showing why Evans is still an important figure today.  <br />Nevertheless, it is difficult to imagine anyone writing a biography of Baker as good as this one, and this is certainly the book to read if you want to know more about Chet Baker.  There is also a tie-in CD, with the tracks selected by the author, that is an excellent introduction to Baker's music.	2003-03-31
US	50235163	RECV6GZ0JXZGZ	1400060036	721149356	Dead Aim: A Novel	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Substandard Perry	Thomas Perry has written a number of excellent thriller; his last one, Pursuit, was well-plotted.  Unfortunately, Dead Aim features uninteresting characters, a dubious premise, and an unbelievable ending.  The main character, Robert Mallon, is a successful builder forced into an early retirement after a bitter divorce results in him having to sell his business.  The plot begins with Mallon saving a woman from committing suicide, only to have her later leave him and finish the job.  He eventually discovers that she killed a former boyfriend; she was given training in how to do this from a group of people who run a self-defense camp and who will help their trainees kill people for a fee.  Since the trainees kill their victims for a motive (this is not a camp attended by serial killers), one would expect that they would be questioned by the police at some point, and that sooner or later one would give away the scheme.  However, nothing like this ever happens.<br />Not helping matters is that Mallon is a very bland character.  A female private detective he hires is more interesting but doesn't survive long enough to carry the book.  ....  <br />Let's hope that Perry's next book is a return to form.	2003-02-22
US	50235163	R2WJZPCMTVFHFH	089296779X	671055061	Breakout	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice to have Richard Stark's sociopath Parker back.	Breakout is the latest in the Parker series of noir thrillers. Written by Donald Westlake (under the appropriate penname of Richard Stark) is great fun to read about although you would never want to meet him in real life.  Parker comes close to being a sociopath.  He has completely no conscience; when in Breakout he decides to help a long term associate get his girl friend out of prison, it is because he decides that it is in his long-term interest; it does not matter to him that his associate (I can't call him a friend because Parker has no friends) helped break Parker out of jail earlier in the book.  He has no problem about killing someone who is an obstacle to his plans.  However, he is completely rational; he would never kill someone for no reason, nor does he seem to derive any pleasure from killing any more than he derives any guilt.  <br />It's interesting to speculate why we enjoy such a character.  Probably it because we all like to imagine indulging our wishes without any care of what society would think, or any obedience of moral rules.  This what Parker does.  <br />Breakout, as pointed out by several other reviewers, is close to a book in one of Westlake's other series.  Parker's presence, however, makes it distinctive.  Here, he must break out of a jail, and then into a jewelry store.  He has far more than his normal share of bad luck, but through his intelligence, and ruthlessness, remains free for another book in the series.	2002-12-19
US	50235163	R3D3E8RW4M1B2W	0375405836	265617910	Jesse James: Last Rebel of the Civil War	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Thoroughly researched biography of both the man and his time	T.J. Stiles' biography of Jesse James is in the \\"Life and Times\\" form.  As Stiles admits, it is impossible to really know Jesse James.  Much of his life passed in obscurity. While letters attributed to him were published in the newspaper, their authenticity has always been open to question.  Stiles is careful to report what is reliably known about James, but to note any contrary facts that call into question his conclusions about what Jesse James actually did or said. Because neither he nor any members of the gangs he belonged to provided an account of how the groups worked together, it is impossible to know how dominant Jesse James was until his last years, when death, capture, or loss of interest removed most of his contemporaries from the scene.  At this time he had to rely on younger men like the Ford brothers, which proved his undoing.<br />Stiles sees James as a product of his times, the Civil War.  Unlike the large battles of the East or even what is considered the Western theaters of the war, the Civil War in Missouri was mostly a small-scale but brutual conflict, with murder of unarmed civilians the norm.  In contrast, for all of the hatred that Sherman that incurred as a result of his march through Georgia and the other Confederate states, few if any civilians were physically harmed; the damage was done to property instead. Jesse James served with some of the most brutal leaders in the war, and most of the men he and his comrades killed were murdered, not killed in combat.  Stiles is careful to point out that Jesse James also suffered at the hands of Union forces, being beaten as teenager and seeing his stepfather hanged (but not killed).  Even given this mistreatment, it is hard to justify James' actions during and after the war.<br />Stiles's biography is likely the best that we will have about Jesse James.  One can argue about how much politics played in Jesse James's motivation, but Stiles makes a convincing case that he was strongly motivated by a hatred for the North.  This may have been the prime reason that he and other engaged in the disastorous attempt to rob a bank in Northfield Minnesota; one of the owners was a Northern soldier who had been governor of Mississippi during the reconstruction.<br />As for the negative reviews that are contained here, Stiles's has thoroughly identified his sources.  Thus, those who are experts in this area (and I do not claim any expertise) can judge the basis for any statements he makes in the book.  In the end, he presents a convincing picture of Jesse James as someone brutalized by the Civil War and who found that enjoyed the brutality.  Stiles also shows how Jesse James became more than a common robber because he was politically useful in the struggle for control of Missouri in the aftermath of the Civil War.	2002-11-30
US	50235163	R7QXBDVQ86O2O	0316881880	900882580	Bing Crosby: A Pocketful of Dreams--The Early Years 1903-1940	Books	5	38	40	N	N	A thorough look at an enigmatic man.	Bing Crosby's reputation has not fared well in the years after his death.  His screen image of an easy-going, ordinary guy seemed to ring false, especially with the publication of a kind of \\"Daddy Dearest\\" book by one of his sons.  Moreover, his singing seemed unlikely to undergo the kind of revival of popularity that Frank Sinatra's has.<br />Gary Giddins is out to change much of that.  He convincingly argues that Crosby was one of the key figures among American singers -- or even entertainers in general -- in the 20th century. Giddins argues that Crosby was the first to fully understand the change caused by the widespread introduction of records and to adapt his technique accordingly.  <br />This book is extremely well researched, but Giddins is such a superb writer that he never allows the details to bog down the narrative, a fault common to academic biographers who seem to be incapable of leaving out the smallest detail about their subjects. Moreover, Giddins has extensive knowledge about popular culture of the period that allows him to put in Crosby in the perspective of his time.<br />Crosby turns out to be a better person than many might think.  He  seems to have lacked any racial prejudice; he was a great admirer of Louis Armstrong and worked to get in him into films when black entertainers were either shunned or forced into Uncle Tom roles.  He was, if anything, excessively modest about his own abilities, giving the credit to others for his success.  He was for the most part easy to work with in the studio or on a film set, only balking when his reasonable requests were ignored.  He was generous to people he had known in the past who had fallen on hard times.<br />Yet Giddins is careful not to ignore Crosby's faults as well.  As friendly as he could be, he did not open up to people, even those he had known for years.  His first marriage slowly turned into something of a disaster as his wife developed drinking and other mental problems.  (Several people arequoted as saying that the drinking problems were the result of helping Crosby break his own drinking problem, but I'm not sure I understand the logic of that and Giddins is no help on this point).  <br />For all of that, Crosby comes across as an admirable person.  Perhaps this book and its successor will spur a greater interest in Crosby the singer.  Whether this happens or not, anyone interested in American entertainment in the last century will want to read this book.	2002-07-26
US	50235163	R2MJY0DYC8VZIM	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	5	53	55	N	N	One of the best in the &quot;Prey&quot; series.	Most of John Sandford's &quot;Prey&quot; series work by identifying the killer early and then following the story on both the lines of Lucas Davenport and of the killer, as they plot and counterplot against one another.  Sandford returns to the formula here, and it works well because Lucas's antagonist is Clara Rinker, the professional hitwoman from his earlier books.  Sandford is careful not to make her a two-dimensional sociopath -- indeed, she is so well rounded that at times the reader can forget that many of the people she has killed in her career were completely innocent.  For most of the book, this is not true as Rinker goes after the crime bosses for whom she has worked in the past.  The book begins with Rinker almost getting killed, and her decision that the people she worked for (all mob connected) are behind it sets her off to eliminating them, none of whom is too sympathetic.  It is a mistake to root for Rinker because a few innocent people are unfortunate enough to wander in to her way, and the result is not good for them.  <br />Rinker is smart, and her killing of well protected hoods who know she is coming for them is for the most part plausible.  Only one of the killings, involving a device that has been used in a well known real-life assasination, seems unlikely to have been successful. All in all, she is such a strong character that this book seems to be more hers than Davenport's.<br />Davenport is one of the few people to have seen Rinker and lived, and so the FBI brings him to St. Louis to help catch her. All but a few chapters take place outside of the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, most of the familiar characters in the Davenport series aren't present, but Rinker more than makes up for them.  Read closely, some of the deductions that Davenport comes up with are a little contrived -- all he does is show up from out of town, talk to a few local cops, and he is ahead of the FBI.  However, the dialog is as well written as ever, and the dry humor stillthere.  And there are a couple of nice twists in the plot at the end. <br />I found the last two books in the &quot;Prey&quot; series to be weak; I thought that Sandford may have run out of ideas of what to do with Davenport, and have read some interviews in which he expressed frustration with the series.  Mortal Prey is a return to the stong, earlier novels.  There is life in Davenport yet.	2002-05-19
US	50235163	R1X4G01JCK2OD3	1882968115	345979486	Galactic Patrol (The Lensman Series, Book 3)	Books	2	2	9	N	N	A great book if you are 14.	There should be an age warning on this book:  \\"Not for mature audiences.\\"  It is part of the Lensman series, probably the first extended space operas.  I thought it was wonderful when I first read it, and would have given it five stars.  However, I was about 13 at the time, Amazon didn't exist, and people were saying that there would never be a need for computers in the home.  Most adult readers will find the prose, and particularly the dialogue, painful to read. The characters are less developed than in contemporary comic books.  Still, if you know a young teenager who likes science fiction, you could make him happy by giving him this book.  I'm not so sure that would work if the teenager is a girl; this series..., very much relects the prejudices and stereotypes of the times in which they were written.	2002-05-03
US	50235163	R28W5HCLOP2LH4	0805070583	439605009	Spies: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Engaging combination of coming-of-age novel and mystery	Most readers spent much of their childhood reading mystery stories written for children, in which children or teenagers caught spies or bank robbers by carefully noting their comings and goings and making brillant deductions. Michael Frayn has taken this formula and turned it on its head in Spies.  Set during World War II, Spies is the story of what happens the narrator and his best (and only) friend begin observing the friend's mother based on the friend's idiotic notion that she is a German spy.  Just like their counterparts in the Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew (there must be British equivalents), they start going through her things, and observing her comings and goings.  Unfortunately, while she is of course not a spy, she is up to something, and the boys' investigation uncovers secrets that the adults are trying to keep quiet.  <br />The story is told in flashback, with the narrator as an old man looking back at his youth.  However, he tries to report things as he remembers them.  This allows the narrator to realize things the narrator doesn't, such as the flaws in some of the characters.  It will also many readers to anticipate events before they occur.  Nevertheless, there are a number of twists to the plot that will surprise the most.  Some will find the ending, in which we learn of things hinted at in the main story, but so peripheral to the plot as not to enage our attention, too clever and unnecessary.  As I like suprises, I enjoyed the final summing up.  Frayn, who has written on a wide range of subjects, has succeeded here.	2002-04-15
US	50235163	R11I9UBFL3YXSE	0898868041	87377292	The Dishonorable Dr. Cook: Debunking the Notorious McKinley Hoax	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Not the definitive book on Cook.	As interesting as this book is, it cannot be considered the definitive work on the controversial Cook.  Bradford Washburn is one of the most important names in American mountaineering.  His photographs rival Ansel Adams.  However, in publishing this book at 91, with a co-author, he seems to have failed to source his material.  Robert M. Bryce published several years ago an exhaustive treatment of Cook and his claims.  He consulted Washburn, who wrote him a note warmly congratulating Bryce on his work when the book was published.  However, when this book was published, which lacks footnotes, Washburn failed to credit Bryce in any way.  This was a complete error, as his co-author admitted; he submitted a bibiography that identifies Bryce as a source. But when reached by the Washington Post, and asked to explain the omission of Bryce's book, Washburn told the Post, &quot;I don't know Bryce&quot; and &quot;to the best of my knowledge I've never laid eyes on his book. But you've got to remember you're dealing with a 91-year-old guy here.&quot; The sad fact is that Washburn is probably telling the truth based on his present memory, but that memory is just not very good.  Washburn's coauthor admits that he &quot;naturally&quot; drew facts and sequences from Bryce's book, since it was both the most comprehensive and the most recent biography of Cook.  The entire controversy is well covered in a February 4. 2002 article in the Washington Post.  Apparently the omission of any mention of Bryce was due to someone who lives at Washburn's retirement home retyping the bibliography.<br />There is no doubt that Washburn drew on a vast amount of his own research for this book, although how much he wrote and how much was written by his coauthor is not clear.  It is also clear that he reached his conclusion concerning Cook's false claim to have climbed Mount McKinley long before Bryce started his work.  This is not a case of deliberate plagarism, and it not clear that Bryce's text wascopied.  However, it is unfortunate, that such a distinguished career ends on this note.  <br />Nevertheless, if you are really interested in this subject, and Cook is very interesting, you need to read Bryce's book.  He has footnoted his sources, discussed the matter at greater detail and  his conclusion seems irrefutable.	2002-04-15
US	50235163	R18UFUAW8J1D9F	0446527084	184357766	Fallen Dragon	Books	2	11	22	N	N	A disappointing effort after Hamilton's Night's Dawn Series	I was excited to see Fallen Dragon, having greatly enjoyed Hamilton's Night's Dawn series (issued as a trilogy in Britain but in six parts here).  Night's Dawn showed tremendous invention and a wide scope; indeed, so wide that at times the main characters disappeared for hundreds of pages.<br />Unfortunately, Fallen Dragon is much more limited.  The main character is a soldier in a corporate army that is used periodically to loot worlds in order to fatten corporate profits.  He has come to realize the futility of his life in a corporation where advancement depends in large part on having enough money to buy shares in the corporation.  Promotions are for practical purposes sold as they were in European armies of the 18th and early 19th centuries.  His hope is to find valuable treasure hidden by the colonists of the world his army has come to loot, and to steal it for himself.<br />The weaknesses of the book are many.  Anyone expecting the richness of ideas found in Night's Dawn will be disappointed.  Moreover, the characters often act illogically, with people who are supposed to be intelligent actually being quite stupid.  For example, although the soldiers are understandably met with riots when they land, and further alienate the colonists by placing explosive devices on people (including children) that will be detonated randomly if there is resistence, the army of occupation schedules a soccer game with the locals as a good will gesture.  This makes as much sense the Germans playing soccer with the locals in the Soviet Union or Yugoslavia, where the Nazis were met with intense resistence.  Similarly, at times the occupying army seems to be ready to behave with great ruthlessness, but never really does despite great provocation.  <br />This novel is too long by several hundred pages; unlike the digressions in Night's Dawn, which were interesting if somewhat off-point, here Hamilton's digressions merely seem to fill up space.  Finally, if the ending of the Naked Godseemed contrived, the ending here is far worse.  <br />Let's hope that Hamilton takes more time with his next novel.	2002-03-25
US	50235163	RPHCASBXNWLLY	0892967110	63870295	Firebreak (Parker Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Parker is an entertaining sociopath:	Did Richard Stark (Donald Westlake) start the convention of having his lead character only go by his last name? In any event, it fits Parker better than the sensitive Spenser.  Parker is a kind of sociopath.  He is totally immoral -- his decision whether to kill someone is based solely on whether it will benefit him or not -- if it will, he has no hesitation.  As this book makes clear, he also is not a romantic version of a criminal who believes in honor among thieves -- when two crooks who worked with his present conspirators threaten to turn them in, he expresses no surprise that they may betray their friends to stay out of jail. <br />Firebreak is made more interesting by a character who is a kind of anti-Parker, Larry. Parker is totally controlled; even when he takes revenge, he does so carefully and cooly.  Larry, on the other hand, is a crook out of control.  Their interaction makes this somewhat different than the typical Parker novel.  This is hardboiled fiction at its best.	2002-01-13
US	50235163	R22DD86VRF62PE	0425068137	52805175	The Dune Encyclopedia: The Complete, Authorized Guide and Companion to Frank Herbert's Masterpiece of the Imagination	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Far Superior to the Prequels	The authors of the three Dune prequels (House Atreides, House Harkonnen, and House Corrino) have repudiated The Dune Encyclopedia and it is very unlikely to be reprinted because parts are inconsistent with the prequels.  Having read both, I believe that The Dune Encyclopedia is closer to Frank Herbert's vision than the prequels.  For example, in the prequels the planet Ix, source of technology for the Empire, is ruled by one of the Great Houses.  In Frank Herbert's books no mention is made of Ix being affiliated with the nobility, and The Dune Encyclopedia follows Frank Herbert in making it an exception to the general system.  This book also fills an important place because Frank Herbert enjoyed introducing concepts such as the Orange Bible or the Bulterian Jihad without much explanation.  The conclusions reached here seem plausible given the structure of the Dune books written by Frank Herbert.  If you can find this book at a used book sale, buy it.	2002-01-04
US	50235163	R1G3GS3SOSI78Z	039457916X	168334979	How War Came: The Immediate Origins of the Second World War	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Excellent historical study.	&quot;How War Came&quot; covers the period roughly from Europe to the beginning of World War II.  Of course, the key actor in this period was Hitler; it was his will, more than any other factor, that caused the war to start.<br />Of course, no one at the time knew that at the time, and this book accounts the diplomatic efforts made by the Britain, France and others to avoid the War.  This provides a useful perspective on the history of the time, which tends to focus exclusively on Hitler.  Watt has thoroughly researched this period, and provides information that even those who are well-read in the events leading up to the war will learn much from this book.	2001-10-27
US	50235163	R3DOJY56ZT0XBX	0520219112	512271768	The Western Way of War: Infantry Battle in Classical Greece	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Superb study of Greek warfare during the classic era.	Dr. Hanson, a leading classical scholar, provides an excellent examination of how warfare among the Greek city-states was conducted.  He places particular emphasis on how the individual soldier fought.  On the one hand, combat in the front line must have been awful; on the other hand, because the armies were made up of men who had known each other for years, unit cohesion must have been very high.  While thoroughly researched, Hanson does not fall back on academic jargon, and his points are easily understood by the nonspecialist.  As he demonstrates, the method of warfare, while often fatal to the soldiers, left property and noncombatants unharmed.  Unfortunately, later in the wars between Athens and Sparta a more complete, and thus destructive manner of warfare developed.  This is an excellent book for anyone interested either in classical Greece or the history of warfare.	2001-10-27
US	50235163	R2B3U3JWQGVSPX	0395538467	730212346	BITTER FAME PA	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A flawed biography.	Stevenson's attempt to write a biography of Sylvia Plath was made more difficult because Plath's surviving husband Ted Hughes controlled the copyrights to Plath's work. (This may not be as difficult now because since Hughes's death, the copyrights presumably have been inherited by their children.)  Thus, at the time this book was written, the coorperation of Hughes, and his sister who seemed in charge of making sure that Stevenson got things right, was essential.  This led to charges that the biography was unbalanced in favor of Hughes. Some of the reviews were savage.  Moreover, as a later book by Janet Malcolm demonstrated, Stevenson had a difficult time dealing with the Hughes.  <br />Nevertheless, Stevenson provides useful information for those who only know Plath from &quot;Ariel&quot; and &quot;Bell Jar.&quot;  She shows the dual nature of Sylvia Plath -- on the one hand, the almost too-perfect young woman and on the other hand a deeply disturbed person with enormous rage.  Sylvia Plath is probably one of those persons of whom the the definitive biography can never be written.  However, Stevenson has made a very credible attempt.	2001-10-27
US	50235163	R1IJ0Y3P6FNMVG	1842122967	85282533	Mountbatten: The Official Biography	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Official, but honest biography of Mountbatten.	Philip Ziegler was Mountbatten's official biographer.  However, he claims in the preface to the book not to have been subject to any censorship, and given the frankness with which he acknowledges his subject's flaws, one can believe his claim.  Mountbatten was a close relative of the British royal family; Prince Philip is his nephew, and he regularly referred to Queen Elizabeth as his niece; and he was also a close confident of Prince Charles.  He was quite ambitious, and not above using his royal connections to advance his military career.  How successful that career was is open to some debate.  There is no question about his physical courage -- indeed, he may have had too much of it.  As Field Marshall Mountgomery enjoyed pointing out, Mountbatten had three destroyers sunk under him during the early part of the war.  Later, he oversaw the Dieppe raid, which was one of the worst fiascos of the war -- a large commando raid on a fortified port resulted in near elimination of some units by German forces composed in many cases of file clerks and cooks.  This loss did not stop his career, however; he ended the war with the command of the Burma theater, where he seems to have performed well.  After the war, he became the last British Viceroy of India, with the task of working out a peaceful transition from British rule.  That was a failure, as hundreds of thousands died in riots  between Hindus and Muslims.  The Muslims could have been forgiven for suspecting Mountbatten's neutrality; his wife was carrying on an affair with the Indian leader Nehru. Mountbatten was no saint in these matters, and could hardly complain.  Mountbatten was murdered in 1979 when the IRA put a bomb on his boat.  Why they did this has never been clear.  Mountbatten had never been involved in Irish affairs, and at almost 80 years of age played no important part in the Government.<br />Ziegler does a good job of capturing Mountbatten's charm -- almost everyone who met him liked him -- and his vanity -- after Elizabeth became queen, his aides would compete to see who could be the first to get him to refer to &quot;my niece, the Queen.&quot;  Curiously, Ziegler begins the book with a description of Mountbatten enjoying reading books on his family tree, an opening that is quite similar to that of &quot;Persuasion&quot; by Jane Austen.  The similarity is odd because the character in Austen's novel is a fool and a snob with no ability, and no other claim to distinction.  That could not be said of Mountbatten.<br />Mountbatten lead a truly interesting life, and Ziegler has produced what is likley to be the definitive biography of that life.  His honesty is such that one need not be an uncritical admirer of Mountbatten to enjoy this biography.	2001-10-26
US	50235163	R1GJQ9ZANQS034	0520031377	200825134	The Country House in English Renaissance Poetry	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fascinating study.	This book is an examination of the role of the English country house in poetry of the 17th Century.  The primary poets examined are Jonson, Herrick and Marvell.  These poets were writing during a time of great social change in England, one manifestation of which was the construction of new and large houses in country by the newly rich.  McClung traces the development of this genre of poetry from Roman models, and shows the important role it played in English poetry.  The poets praise those houses that represent the classic English virtues, while those that represent what was at the time innovative architecture are usually condemned.  McLung illustrates his analysis with photographs of some of the best known of the great country houses of the time.  This is an example of academic criticism at its best.	2001-10-25
US	50235163	R3C0H7XNT3YQGW	0520203135	350886450	The Greco-Persian Wars	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Excellent account of a key period in Western history.	Had the Greeks failed to defeat the Persians in in their invasion of Greece, western history would have been very different.  The great flowering of Greek civilization would not have taken place, and without it, it is hard to conceive how our world would look now.  Green, one of the best classcial scholars, has done a superb job of covering a war that has been covered in myths. At times, he must engage in speculation to cover gaps or improbabilities in the historical record, but he always does so judiciously, and with regard for other points of view.  This book is interesting not just as military history, bur for an account of how western civilization developed.	2001-10-24
US	50235163	R2SXTGRPD58E5G	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Well researched and thorough biography of Alexander	Alexander the Great is not someone about whom it could be said that the definitive biography has been writtern.  The difficulty is not just that a biographer is dealing with a figure who lived thousands of years ago, and whose original biographies have been lost.  The larger problem is that our view of the world and life is quite different than it was in the time of Alexander and those who followed him.  To be a great military leader is no longer viewed as the highest possible achievement, and Alexander's ambition, which was Homeric in scope, no longer seems as admirable as it did in the past.  Thus, I think that Green sometimes takes an excessively unfavorable view of Alexander.  On the other hand, Green is one of the leading classcial scholars in the world, and he undoubtedly knows what he is doing better than someone like myself.  The strengths of this biography is that it is thoroughly researched, does not engage in speculation to fill in the gaps that exist, and is particularly strong on Alexander's battles.  One can question whether Alexander was the greatest general of all time -- after all, it was a very different thing to command an army in classical times where a general was expected to be in the forefront of the action, as opposed to the battles of Napoleon, where conduct like Alexander's would have gotten Napoleon killed in short order.  Nevertheless, Green's historical judgments seem sound.  If you find this book interesting, you will not want to stop here.  On the other hand, it is an excellent place to start, and is the best recent biography of Alexander.	2001-10-24
US	50235163	R1C6DLQO0355BF	0940322196	581039903	The Horse's Mouth (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	43	43	N	N	It's great to see this book back in print.	The Horse's Mouth is the concluding volume in Joyce Cary's first trilogy.  It is the story of Gully Jimson, a gifted artist but a selfish and erratic man.  However, his sense of humor, even at his own misfortunes, make him an interesting character.  Although this is the third volume in a trilogy, you need not have read the first two to enjoy this one.  When you have read the trilogy, however, you will appreciate Cary's ability to create characters who view the world in distinct ways.  As a painter, Jimson has a strong visual sense, and so this book has much more detailed descriptions of what he sees than is provided by the narrators of the first two books in the trilogy.<br />Jimson is a thoroughly believable artist, who is in many ways a scoundrel but who also possesses a genuine creative gift.  He reminds us of the great gap that often exists between the artists who create and the staid academics who later analyze their works.  The book is a minor classic, and The New York Review of Books should be congratulated at restoring it to print, as it has with a number of other important, but out of print, novels.  If you read this book, you will certainly want to go back and read the others in the trilogy, Herself Surprised and To Be a Pilgrim.	2001-10-24
US	50235163	R3473T0GAY0W0U	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Melancholy view of the human condidtion.	Stewart's novel begins with a science fiction premised used by Stephen King in The Stand -- a virus quickly wipes out most of the world's population -- but from that point on, the two books (and others that have used this idea) are completely dissimilar.  Stewart has little interest in the plague itself, and it is covered in a short part of the book.  Rather, his interest is in how people react to being deprived of modern civilization.  For years, his characters try to keep things going by teaching their children to read, and keeping memories of the old world alive.  However, the drastically changed circumstances of their children's lives make this impossible, and the small group of survivors descend to a hunter-gatherer civilization.  <br />Stewart also addresses the question of what would ordinary people do who find themselves deprived of the protections of the law, and thus having to make their own difficult choices.  <br />Those who read this book expecting a typical science fiction novel will be disappointed.  Stewart uses science fiction themes to explore significant issues in much the same way that George Orwell did in 1984.  An excellent novel.	2001-10-23
US	50235163	RT4TIQIIOCN44	0395353629	551836579	Anne Sexton: A Biography	Books	4	7	10	N	N	An interesting biography of a major confessional poet.	The biographer here had an unusual advantage: Anne Sexton's daughter gave her access to taped sessions Sexton's psychiatrist had made of his sessions with Sexton.  This disclosure of what are normally privileged sessions raised eyebrows, but I did not find the disclosure obtained from these tapes that revealing.  It was obvious to anyone who came into contact with her that Sexton was a very disturbed person, and her doctor does not seem to have come to a definitive diagnosis.  It may well be that she suffered from some physical defect of the brain that could not be diagnosed during her lifetime.<br />What is clear is that Sexton made life difficult for those closest to her, such as her husband and her children.  Wildly unstable, she demanded more than anyone could give, and gave back little in return.  On the other hand, she was one of the major poets of her time, and talented writers can get away with being miserable people.  A weakness of this book is that it not very strong on Sexton's poetry, which is the only reason people are interested in her.  Still, it is well researched, and is likely to remain useful to those interested in Sexton for years to come.	2001-10-23
US	50235163	RMNRK4VZS2GTT	0394753054	232831301	Prick Up Your Ears: The Biography of Joe Orton	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting biography of a minor playwright.	Prick Up Your Ears is a biography of Joe Orton, who achieved a measure of fame in Britain and the US for his plays such as &quot;What the Butler Saw.&quot;  Orton, who was gay, got much of his literary education from his lover.  The lover, who went from being the dominant person in the relationship to the lesser when Orton became famous, eventually developed such a rage against Orton that he murdered him and then killed himself.<br />Orton's plays are often funny, but not deep.  They depend on the breaking of social and sexual conventions.  Now that those conventions have largely been broken anyhow, Orton's plays seem less shocking than they were at the time.  Orton liked to be thought of as another Harold Pinter, but somewhat to his horror he found that his admirers included conventional middlebrow playwrights of the day.  In fact, Orton's plays do have more in common with the works of these more conventional writer than with Pinter.  Perhaps Orton's greatest comic invention were his letters to the editor of various British publications, always written under a false name and always espousing an absurdely conservative point of view.  Orton, whether he admitted it or not, needed these conservatives for his plays to work.<br />Lahr's biography is well researched, and is likely to remain the definitive biography of Orton.  Lahr himself has a fluid writing style, and the intelligence to know what to put in and what to leave out.  Thus, he avoids swamping the reader with meaningless details as do many American biographers.	2001-10-23
US	50235163	R2KRMBX4K7L8TM	022401305X	144435480	The Alteration	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An example of Kingsley Amis's range.	Kingsley Amis is best known as a satirist -- Lucky Jim is one of the funniest books since World War II -- but he always had an interest in science fiction (according to his son Martin, one of his favorite movies was The Terminator), and this book presents an alternative history in which Britain remained a Catholic country, and Martin Luther was reconciled to the Church.  Other changes including Bethoven writing 20 symphonies and Mozart dying even earlier than in real life.  The main character is a boy (Hubert) about to lose his voice because of puberty; the &quot;alteration&quot; of the title is castration to preserve that voice.  Amis presents a well-thought out altenrate version, and the adventures of Hubert to escape his alteration are both interesting and used to further explain this alternative history. Unfortunately, the book is out of print in the U.S.; I got my copy on a trip to Britain. Almost anything Kingsley Amis wrote is interesting, and it is our loss that more of his works are not available in the U.S.	2001-10-21
US	50235163	R1BLJ6362ZXNUJ	0140189785	70046812	Victory (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	One of Conrad's best novels, if not one of his best known.	Victory is the story of a man named Heyst who leads an isolated life in the South Pacific.  However, he is drawn out of his isolation when he brings a woman to his island home.  A chance encounter between a dishonest German who dislikes Heyst and two criminals sets up the dramatic ending.  Conrad's style is as fluid as in his better known books, such as Lord Jim, and it is amazing that someone could write English so well who did not learn it until later in life and who always spoke it with a heavy Polish accent.  Victory is similar to Conrad's other works in that the plot flirts with melodrama, but always is rooted in realism.  Those who read the book will find the title apt.	2001-10-21
US	50235163	RCUTT7MA435LL	0195030672	333235155	The Road to Oxiana	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A modern classic of travel writing.	The Road to Oxiana was popular when it was first issued, but gradually dropped out of sight, only to be revived when Bruce Chatwin and others rediscovered it.  Chatwin in particular was heavily influenced by this book.  It is the story of Robert Byron's efforts to see large brick burial towers located in Persia. Or at least that it was what Byron said he was looking for.  The book is more a depiction of his misadventures -- he was suspected of being a spy by most who met him, although there was no truth to this.  The style of this book is highly innovative; rather than presenting a straight narrative, it is (or appears to be) a collection of diary entries, newspaper stories, anecdotes, and cultural analysis. This makes the book sound themeless, but Byron's personality holds it together.  This book should be on a short list of the best travel books in the English language.	2001-10-21
US	50235163	R18GAR9UL6734X	0060975768	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	0	3	N	N	A detailed look at early battles that were precursors.	&quot;We Were Soldiers Once ... and Young&quot; is a story of two of the first battles fought by US soldiers in Viet Nam.  Although the soldiers fought well, the military failed to appreciate that the Viet Cong also fought well, and that this was not going to be a walkover.  By concentrating on two actions, the authors examine details that would be lost in a larger survey.  One of the most chilling is the lieutenant who tells his friends that he is going to win the Medal of Honor.  Of course, what he achieves is to get himself and much of his platoon killed in short order.  This book is an accurate guide to the tactics used in the early parts of the Viet Nam war.  Finally, it shows how the Army expected the war to be won, and thus is a precursor for what would happen for years to come.  An essential book to understanding how the war was fought.	2001-10-20
US	50235163	RI5G3ZGQOH0BW	0156286971	294217435	Eminent Victorians: Florence Nightingale, General Gordon, Cardinal Manning, Dr. Arnold	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A classic of biography.	Lytton Strachey, a member of the Bloomsbury group, altered the way biographies were written with this volume of four well-known Victorians.  At the time the book was published, it skewered the hypocrisies and self-assured nature of the Victorians.  Even today, when we are so far removed from the Victorian age that it seems quaint and even attractive, this book's attack on the deadening effect of much of that time still rings true.  And it is as readable now as it was then; Strachey was one of the wittiest men of his time, and this book is his most successful work.  Interestingly, he  became less iconoclastic as he grew older, and his later biography of Queen Victoria (not one of the four figures contained in Eminent Victorians) is rather respectful.  If you enjoy this book (and almost anyone would), you might want to try to see the movie released several years ago titled &quot;Carrington.&quot;  It is based on a biography of Strachey by Milchael Holroyd, but is told from the point of view of a woman who fell hopelessly in love with Strachey; unfortunately for her, he was a confirmed homosexual, but she loved him anyway.  Emma Thompson plays the title roal and Jonathan Pryce is an excellent Strachey.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R3MFRUKTGCZ1O0	0674540050	470998109	Macaulay: The Shaping of the Historian	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A masterful biography, but unfortunately not completed.	John Clive's biography &quot;Macaulay: The Shaping of the Historian&quot; is one of the finest biographies of the last 30 years.  Although Macaulay is not widely read today, he was a major essayist and influential historian -- Winston Churchill's prose style seems to have been greatly influenced by Macaulay.  Clive's book takes Macaulay from his days as infant prodigy, learning foreign languages as a child and writing histories before he was a teenager, and ends as he is beginning to write his enormously popular &quot;History of England.&quot;  Macaulay was also an important figure in the passage of the First Reform Bill, which was the first major alteration in the British Constitution in hundreds of years, and set the country on the road to a truly democratice form of government.  Clive provides a superb description of pre-Victorian England and of Macaulay, one of those amazing people of the 19th Century whose capacity for work seems to have been endless.  I don't know if Clive ever intended to write a second volume that would have covered the rest of Macaulay's life, but in any event he died before doing so.  However, we should be grateful for what we have here.  For me, the book was so interesting that I purchased a copy of Macaulay's Collected Works from a used bookstore, and thoroughly enjoyed them.  Clive's biography is a model of the genre; while well-researched, he does not overwhelm the reader with useless facts simply because he knows them, but rather concentrates on the key facts to bring Macaulay to life.  You do not have to have read Macaulay to enjoy this book.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R1BYN586VOAVIR	0140144994	909937564	The Historical Figure of Jesus	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Interesting portrait of a difficult subject.	Whether you are a believer or not, Jesus must be considered one of the most important persons who ever lived.  However, our historical record of Jesus is sparse -- it is generally agreed that the gospels were not written for many decades after Jesus's death, and thus the authors probably did not have direct knowledge of Jesus, but were relying on a lost source known as &quot;Q.&quot;  Sanders does a good job of providing a background for what Palestine was like during Jesus's lifetime, and while he must engage in some speculation about his life, he does so in a judicious way and his assumptions seem reasonable.  He also is respectful of Christianity and does not engage in the kind of attacks unsupported by the historical record that anti-Christians can do.  This book is a remarkable of work of scholarship.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R33RFFGWS58VBV	0300081138	486446011	Bill Evans: How My Heart Sings	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A biography that concentrates on the music of Bill Evans.	This biography, by a writer who is himself a professional pianist, concentrates on Bill Evans' music.  He discusses each of Evans' many recordings, and goes into some detail about the technical aspects of how he improvised so brillantly.  Evans's life, however, is covered with pretty much the bare minimum of details.  Thus, his drug addiction is discussed only when absolutely necessary, as is the suicide of a long-time lover.  Having read many other biographies that wallow in such details, I don't believe the reader misses very much.  Anyone interested in Bill Evans is interested in him because of his music, not his problems.  This book is an invaluable guide to that music.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R2PDV3XMYGU0GD	0030551919	513657803	Lytton Strachey	Books	5	14	16	N	N	An excellent biography of a key figure in Bloomsbury.	Lytton Strachey was one of the key figures in the Bloomsbury group, and one of Virginia Wolf's best friends.  He is best known today for his portraits of four famous Victorians in &quot;Emminent Victorians.&quot;  At the time, the book was something of piece of generational warfare; the figures that Strachey dismantles were models of piety and determination held up to Strachey's generation when they were young as the sort of people to emulate. Strachey, who was one of the wittiest men of his time, shows that actually they were something of narrowminded fanatics.  <br />Holroyd's biography is a superb portrait of Strachey and the circle he moved in.  Well-documented, it brings to life many people never well-known in America.  Strachey's personal life was extremely complicated; a woman named Carrington (she refused to use her first name which was Dora) fell desparately in love with him.  This was unfortunate for her because Strachey was a confirmed homosexual. When examined for possible conscription during the First World War, he was asked what he would due if he saw a German trying to rape his sister; his response was &quot;I should try to come between them.&quot;  This made no difference to Carrington, whose love for him was so great that she committed suicide after his death.  Carrington, and other figures who became involved in Strachey's complicated life make this almost a group biography.  In fact, the biography was rereleased in connection with the movie &quot;Carrington&quot; (starred Emma Thompson in the title role and Jonathan Pryce as Strachey) and on the cover Carrington's name is in type as big as that used for Lytton Strachey. Holroyd's writing style is fluid, and his eye for a tellng anecdote make the biography eminently readable.  One does not have to be obsessed with Bloomsbury to enjoy this book.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R2QU2WB8L6NO6E	0571099130	586806501	The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston (Faber Paper-Covered Editions)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	One of the great books about World War I.	World War I had a far greater impact on Britain than the US for the obvious reasons that they were in the war for over four years and suffered horrific casualties.  The literature produced by that war made a sharp break from what came before, which reflected the feeling in the country that the war had irrevocably changed life in Britain.  This is well illustrated in Siegfreid Sassoon's &quot;The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston,&quot; a fictional version of his own experiences.  The first part covers Sherston's pre-war life, with his obsession with fox-hunting.  This is so well written that you will enjoy it even if you don't have the least interest in the subject.  <br />The next section, &quot;Memoirs of an Infantry Officer&quot; covers his experiences in World War I, during he is highly decorated.  The horrors of the war, which many of Sassoon's class thought would be a great adventure, are accurately portrayed. Eventually he becomes disillusioned with the war, and writes a letter denouncing it that could have led to his court-martial.  A close friend (Robert Graves in real life) gets him classified as having a mental disorder and he is sent off to a hospital to recuperate. <br />This book is deeply moving and is one of a handful of books that changed the way that the English-speaking world views war.  Sassoon's writing style is plain on the surface, but its plainness makes the emotional impact all the greater.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R37USHWEM00D4U	0465057128	122798525	The Pity Of War: Explaining World War I	Books	3	79	88	N	N	Detailed and controversial economic history of World War I	Niall Ferguson got headlines for what would have otherwise been a book for specialists of World War I when he included arguments that Britain should not have entered the war.  He acknowledged that this would have certainly meant the fall of France and the acquisition by Germany of territory in the East at the expense of Russia.  His argument created a great stir in Britain, which (like France) suffered enormously high casualties in World War I, much worse than in the World War II.  Ferguson's book is a thoroughly argued, revisionist approach to the War.  He disputes everything from the importance patriotism and war fever played in the early rush of enlistments to whether the Allies were economically more efficient than the Central Powers.  Do not buy this book expecting an easy read.  Ferguson supports his arguments by large amounts of statistical studies that are daunting even to a reader familiar with the controversies surrounding the war.  In the end, one is left with the belief that it could not have been a good thing for Germany to have eliminated France and Russia as world powers, which would have allowed it to build up its Navy in competition with Britain.  Of course, there is one benefit that would have come from Germany winning World War I; with the German political structure intact and victorious, it seems certain that Adolph Hitler would have lived his days out in obscurity.<BR>In short, this book is only for someone deeply interested in the economic and social history of World War I.	2001-10-17
US	50235163	R3EJNYNK4CRUZO	0679730532	315539179	Faulkner: A Biography	Books	2	25	44	N	N	A useful but deeply flawed biography.	Blotner did a prodigious amount of research for this biography.  Any later writer who wants to produce a biography of Faulkner will inevitably find himself or herself relying on much of Blotner's work.  The reader, however, will not be so grateful.  Blotner seems incapable of distinguishing between that which is important and that which is not.  It seems as though he has dumped almost everything he learned into this book. And he learned quite a lot.  Why we need, for example, to know the names  of everyone Faulkner came into contact with?  Finally, Blotner is not a gifted writer; his style is typical of the academic.  I can only hope someone writes a shorter, more readable biography of Faulkner someday.	2001-10-16
US	50235163	R2TCX5AQMSDBY6	080213646X	115821286	The Proust Screenplay: a la Recherche du Temps Perdu	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Too bad this was never made into a movie.	A screenplay of Proust's In Search of Lost Time sounds like a hopeless project.  In the most recent translation, Proust's novel ran to over 4,000 pages.  Reducing this to a screenplay would seem to require cuts of such magnitude that nothing of the novel would be left.  Indeed, those movies that have been made of the novel usually are of a small part, like the Swann in Love section of Swann's Way.  Pinter, however, managed to pull off the impossible.  He concentrated on key events in the novel, and even more on key images.  It is hard to say whether this would have worked with someone totally unfamilar with the material.  However, presenting Proust's novel in any literal fashion would be impossible, and probably contrary to what he attempted to accomplish in his novel.  Pinter's screenplay, for anyone who has read the novel, is a tremendous success.  Unfortunately, it was never made into a movie.	2001-10-16
US	50235163	R18OY0DX2WPCNI	0674154312	216367613	Complete Poems	Books	5	42	46	N	N	The definitive edition of the poetry of Keats.	Jack Stillinger devoted much of his professional life to establishing the definitive texts of Keats's poems. This painstaking work has resulted in a number of changes to the poems.  As to the quality of the poetry itself, at his best Keats approaches Shakespeare, as in the Odes.  Stillinger is also an excellent teacher; I had his course on Keats 26 years ago, and it was fascinating.  While the other reviewers have done a very good job of describing the beauty of Keats's poetry, one point Stillinger made about Keats as a person is worth repeating:  Keats was the one English romantic poet that you would want to ask for advice about a personal problem you had.  All the rest, Blake, Wordsworth, Shelley (especially!), and Byron would have given you advice that, if followed, would have been wildly impractical.  Keats, as shown by his letters, was not pretentious and had a large degree of human decency and common sense.  While these characteristics are not one usually associated with romantic poets, I think that they contribute to the strength of his poetry.	2001-10-16
US	50235163	R4GF32IBHRSBD	0785813020	442435726	The Battle of the Atlantic: September, 1939-May, 1943 (History of United States Naval Operations in World War II, Vol. 1)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A slow start to a great series.	This is the first volume in Morison's monumental history of the U.S. Navy in World War II, but it is hardly the most interesting.  It covers submarine warfare in the Atlantic for the first years of the war.  American losses were terrible during much of this period.  As we now know, most of the damage was done by a few German U Boats that were successful because of inept tactics by the Americans.  While Morison is an honest historian, and this book was not edited by the Navy, he still (in my judgment) fails to criticize sufficiently the Navy for its failings during this period.  After all, the Navy knew that the major danger posed by the German Navy was the latter's submarine fleet; most of its small surface fleet having been sunk by the British Navy in 1940.  Moreover, the American Navy had the advantage of access to British experience in fighting U Boats.  However, despite having identified the threat years before facing it, and being able to learn from the British successes and failures, the opening of the submarine war in the Atlantic was a disaster for the U.S. Navy.  It seems to me that Morison goes too easy on the Chief of Naval Operations at the time, Ernest King, who was well know for his loathing of the British.  <br />Another necessary aspect of this book that makes it less interesting than others in the series is that antisubmarine operations are necessarily small unit actions, unlike the great battles fought in the Pacific.  It was a war of attrition, and was eventually won by improved tactics and equipment that caused the Germans to take unacceptable losses.<br />Having made these criticisms, Morison's series is essential for anyone interested in the details of the U.S. Navy's role in World War II.  While later historians have questioned some of his judgments, no one will ever assemble so much so source material on the subject again.	2001-10-16
US	50235163	RYKLPKG04ST36	0892723866	73929784	Rabble in Arms	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Excellent historical novel of the American Revolution.	Kenneth Roberts is not widely read today, although in the 30's and 40's he was a bestseller.  It is unfortunate that he did not write straight history because the strongest part of his books is usually the narrative of what the soldiers actually went through -- the amount of marching and getting by on short rations greatly exceeds the time in combat.  The one historical weakness of both this book and Arundel is that Benedict Arnold comes across as too heroic.  As much time as Roberts spends on Arnold's frustrations and mistreatment by the Continental Congress, his portrayal of Arnold is of someone too good to betray his character.  I also agree with the reviewer who tired of Cap's comic adventures.  Still, Roberts has a strong narrative gift, and it is good to see his books back into print again.  The N.C. Wyeth cover is also nice.	2001-10-16
US	50235163	R2N16J080V8GOO	0892723645	748291242	Arundel	Books	4	77	78	N	N	It is good to see this novel back in print.	Kenneth Roberts was a successful historical novelist in the 1930s and 40s, but faded in popularity after his death to the point that it was difficult to find his books outside of libraries.  In fact, he had many strengths as a writer.  In particular, he took seriously his obligations to accurately portray the historical period about which he was writing.  For example, in this book his account of life in the Continental Army consists of mostly of marching great distances with little food.  I imagine the soldiers of the time would agree.  Roberts is also interesting for turning to less popular subjects of the time; a major character here is Benedict Arnold, who appears quite favorably.  Roberts also does a good job of showing how much squabbling went on among the Continental Congress, a welcome relief to the current portrayal of all leaders back then as giants who have never been equaled.  You need not be deeply interested in the American Revolution to enjoy this book.	2001-10-14
US	50235163	R1HSAJKXZY278	1568494467	670154514	The Late George Apley	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Excellent novel by a nearly forgotten author.	J.P. Marquand was well known in his day, both as a serious writer(The Late George Apley won a Pulitzer Prize) and for the Mr. Moto detective series (made into movies starring Peter Lorre as the title character).  This novel makes skillful use of the device of the unreliable narrator; it is told from the point of view of a writer putting together a life of Apley who, like his subject, is thoroughly conventional, and thus does not realize that his portrait of Apley reveals the sterility of the latter's life.  The novel is also a skillful depiction of a particular class in a particular place and time.  I agree with the other reviewers that it is a shame that it is out of print.	2001-10-14
US	50235163	RVERMZZYWUBPS	0446391174	484260691	Adventures in the Screen Trade: A Personal View of Hollywood and Screenwriting	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Goldman is a great storyteller.	William Goldman is one of the most successful screenwriters in Hollywood. This book describes how he got in the business, and how he has succeeded.  Unlike some of the other reviewers, I found his stories about Olivier, Newman, Redford, etc. very interesting, and I think Goldman would be the perfect person to be seated next to a dinner party -- his anecdotes are funny and revealing.  Those looking for guidance on how to make it as a screenwriter will probably be somewhat frustrated by the book, although Goldman does discuss in detail his writing of Butch Cassidy.  He also has an interesting section at the end of the book that consists of an idea for a screenplay accompanied by comments from directors and other screenwriters.  This book is a must for anyone interested in movies.	2001-10-13
US	50235163	R3D0HDQ05Z6C9P	0553268880	380807670	The Prince of Tides: A Novel	Books	1	19	39	N	N	It is hard to understand the success of this book.	All novels require a suspension of disbelief, but this one was too much for me.  It uses the hoary device of Freudian analysis as a means of structuring the story.  The great traumatic secret that this analysis eventually uncovers is so over the top as to be funny rather than horrifying; one would like to know what Flannery O'Connor would have thought of it.  As much as others love this book, for me almost everything in it rang false.	2001-10-13
US	50235163	R1MN5UOWLG94NO	0679732497	641034765	Pop. 1280	Books	1	6	41	N	N	Poorly written and tedious.	Jim Thompson achieved a measure of posthumous fame in the 1990's with the reissue of a number of his books.  The best thing I can say about this one is that the publisher did a great job of packaging the book.  Thompson's writing style is very awkward.  To the extent the book has any interest at all, it is in its attempt to tell a story from the point of view of a sociopath.  This is not an easy thing to do, and I don't think Thompson pulls it off.  There moments of black humor in the book. However, most of the time I felt that Thompson was simply doing the best he could to shock the reader, without much attempt to put together a believable story.  The violence in the book, while probably extreme at the time it was published, is really not that bad given what is being written now or shown in films.  Rather, the fault of the book is that, as hard as it tries to be shocking, ultimately it is boring.	2001-10-13
US	50235163	R9KGA6KZX2FBM	0786884967	887682619	Jazz 101: A Complete Guide to Learning and Loving Jazz	Books	4	37	40	N	N	A very good introduction to Jazz.	If you saw the Ken Burns series on Jazz and wanted to learn more, this book is a great place to start.  While it does not pretend to be exhaustive, it covers the history of Jazz from the beginning to the present, without neglecting contemporary artists in the way that Burns' series did.  The book also discusses musical issues in a way that the non-muscian can easily understand.  This won't be the last book that you will want to read about Jazz, but it should be the first.	2001-10-13
US	50235163	R358E060GJDHTZ	0375703195	153123734	Which Lie Did I Tell?: More Adventures in the Screen Trade	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another insightful book about making movies.	William Goldman's sequel to Adventures in the Screen Writing Trade is almost as much fun as the original.  He does have his quirks -- for example, he seems obsessed with his height versus that of some Hollywood stars.  Nevertheless, his ability to tell a good story about his experiences in Hollywood would make him the perfect dinner companion.  He also provides useful information about what works and doesn't work in screenplays.  Unlike others in the business, he is unpretentious.  He does not take on the mantle of the &quot;great artist.&quot;  However, he has done some great work on major movies.  If you enjoy movies at all, you will enjoy this book.  Aspiring screenwriters will be somewhat disappointed because, although the book does discuss Goldman's methods, it is not a how-to type of book.  It is a very good book for the rest of us.	2001-10-13
US	50235163	R214GR59DLCGD9	0684863618	682610760	Pale Horse Coming	Books	4	36	43	N	N	Good, but not the best by Stephen Hunter	The main character of &quot;Pale Horse Coming&quot; is Earl Swaggert, who was also the subject of Hunter's last novel &quot;Hot Springs.&quot;  In an effort to rescue his friend attorney Sam Vincent, Swaggert finds himself in a prison located in a mythical Mississippi county known as Thebes.  Vincent, by the way, behaves with almost unbelievable stupidity throughout the book, especially for someone who spent most of his life in the South.  Swaggert, being nearly superhuman, survives the brutal treatment in the prison, escapes, and leads a party of gunmen back to destroy it.<br />Anyone who has enjoyed the past Swaggert books by Hunter will like this one.  Hunter (whose other job is film critic for the Washington Post) throws in many references to other books and to films.  Thus, the prison is undoubtedly named Thebes so that Hunter can refer to the Greek play &quot;Seven Against Thebes&quot; several times in the novel.  There is also a subplot taken almost directly from Faulkner's &quot;Absalom, Absalom.&quot;  The use of seven gunmen brings to mind &quot;The Magnificent Seven&quot; and &quot;Seven Samurai.&quot;  Finally, those familiar with the shooting world, may recognize the real life models for the gunmen.  Not being so familiar, the only one I could identify is based on World War II hero Audie Murphy, who went on to star in a series of B western movies in the 50s.<br />Much of what readers have come to expect from Hunter is present in this novel -- lots of gunplay, discussion of the details of shooting, and lots of action.  I rate it below &quot;Hot Springs,&quot; &quot;Point of Impact,&quot; and &quot;Dirty White Boys&quot; because there are a number of slow sections in the book -- particularly at the beginning where Sam Vincent has to really work at getting himself in trouble so that Earl Swaggert will have to rescue him.  Not all of the gunmen come across as individual characters, and I had trouble keeping about half of them straight, although the remainder were clear enough.  Some of the literary baggage seems a bit much, particularly the borrowed subplot from &quot;Absalom, Absalom.&quot;  <br />Still, these were relatively minor weaknesses in and should not discourage anyone who likes Hunter's books from buying this one.  He provides enough excitement to keep most readers hooked.  Even when Hunter is not at his best, he is still far above most writers in his genre.	2001-10-11
US	50235163	RB2KNG5O6Q2UB	0805007083	410038127	Mr. Gumpy's Outing	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	My son's favorite is "everything."	This is a thoroughly delightful book.  The simple story engages small children, and the illustrations are first-rate.  I have read this book countless times to my two pre-schoolers, and have enjoyed the experience very much.  This book is an excellent way to get children interested in books.  Finally, I recommend the hardback over the paperback because of the higher quality of the illustrations in the hardback.	2001-10-09
US	50235163	R1C4TD9N0T0B3N	0226677176	972532291	A Dance to the Music of Time: Third Movement	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good, but not the best of A Dance to the Music of Time	This trilogy takes up the war years, and Nick Jenkins' experiences in the Army.  The Army is portrayed not as a fighting machine, but as a giant bureaucracy.  Of course, this is the experience that many of the millions of men who served in the Armed Forces for Britain and the US had.  The frustrations Jenkins experiences are similar to those described in Evelyn Waugh's Sword of Honor trilogy.  The emphasis on the bureaucratic aspects of war makes the success of Widmerpool -- in many ways the least military of men, and one who would be completely incompetent as a leader on a battlefield -- completely believable.  Powell proves as adept as ever as a creater of characters.  I would rate these three novels as quite good, but not as memorable as the earlier two trilogies.  Even for Powell, the novels seem rather weak on plot, and to be more a series of character sketches.  However, this weakness is overbalanced by the dry humor and the author's ability to create believable characters who are funny, and engaging.  While obviously not the place to start, this trilogy is essential for anyone who has read Powell.	2001-10-06
US	50235163	R3KBOIGOVVYDXY	0393304124	604008127	Present at the Creation: My Years in the State Department	Books	5	25	27	N	N	An essential book for understanding the cold war	Dean Acheson's memoir is devoted almost entirely to his service in the State Department following the end of the Second World War.  He provides almost no details about his background or private life, and covers his pre-war career in a few chapters.  This allows him to concentrate on what really matters, his history of post-war foreign relations. <br />Acheson truly was &quot;Present at the Creation&quot; in that he participated in the creation of the postwar structure designed to contain communism after Stalin installed puppet goverments in Eastern Europe.  During his tenure, he was criticized from the left for being too hawkish, and from the right as being either a communist or a communist sympathizer.  The latter charges were particularly ridiculous; Acheson had no illusions about the Soviet Union, but he also had no intention to start World War III if it could be avoided.  <br />Some will find the details of how agreements were reached with our allies tedious.  However, these details are essential to understanding the limitations under which Acheson worked.  He rightly viewed it essential to strive to revive Western Europe, and to treat these countries as allies, not puppets.  The result of this foresight was NATO, and the decades-long consensus amoung Western Europe and the United States concerning how to deal with the Soviets.  <br />Acheson was highly valued by Truman, and it is easy to see why.  In addition to being intelligent and experienced in foreign affairs, Acheson (like Truman) was a great believer in loyalty.  Thus, when Truman returned to Washington, Acheson was the only cabinet member to meet him at the train station, a gesture Truman never forgot.  Of course, Acheson's loyalty did cause to make some unfortunate statements, such as when he said he would not turn his back on Alger Hiss, whom he had known briefly in the State Department (Acheson knew Hiss's brother Donald much better).<br />To use a term from the 1960s, Acheson was very much a man ofthe Establishment.  He went to the best schools, was a Supreme Court clerk, and was a partner in a prominent law firm when he was not working for the Government.  This background affects his prose style, which shows some degree of excessive conviction that he was almost always right, and shows no sign of self-doubt.  For all of that, I found the book quite readable, and important to anyone interested in postwar history.	2001-09-12
US	50235163	RQ15TS993PPFS	0805765859	213511628	Friedrich Holderlin (Twayne's World Authors Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unger's book is an important work about a major poet.	Holderlin is a German poet who is unfortunately not well in in the United States.  Richard Unger, however, provides an excellent study of this major figure in European literature.  Unger's own command of German is superb, and he is thoroughly familiar with both the poet's work and the period in which he wrote.  While not for the casual reader, this book is essential for the serious student of German literature.	2001-09-07
US	50235163	RDOTHKDNYVTHJ	0374231680	417335818	Philip Larkin: A Writer's Life	Books	2	8	11	N	N	A disappointing biography	Andrew Motion's biography of Larkin, although well researched, is ultimately disappointing. Motion seems to have little sympathy for Larkin, and one wonders why he undertook this task. He does thoroughly cover the facts of Larkin's life -- his father, who admired Hitler even during the Second World War and his mother who seemed to have evoked only pity from her son. Indeed, according to Motion, Larkin claimed that his parents had such an unhappy marriage that he decided never to marry. It turns out, contrary to what one would believe from the poetry, that Larkin (at least in his later life) was fairly successful with women. However, he was careful not to commit himself too far. Although most people who knew Larkin liked him (such as Kingsley Amis and Robert Conquest), this book will not tell you why. A more sympathetic sketch of Larkin can be found in Martin Amis's recent memoir. The book also falls short in its discussion of the poetry. That may be because Larkin's mature style was deceptively simple. While this make the poetry accessible to a wide audience, it robs the biographer of the opportunity to explicate obscure images or references. Anyone interested in Larkin is better off with the Collected Poems, and Required Writing, a book of essays.	2001-09-07
US	50235163	R3HJ6OET4RRC3Q	0826453465	527717210	Larkin's Jazz: Essays and Reviews, 1940-1984 (Bayou)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Larkin essays on jazz are insightful	For many years, Philip Larkin wrote reviews and essays on Jazz.  He fell in love with the music as a young man.  This love might seem odd, because Jazz is a distinctly American form of music (and Larkin almost never travelled abroad and never to America) and it is also dominated by African-Americans (Larkin has unkind things to say about minorities in his Collected Letters).  Nevertheless, Larkin found in the music of Armstrong, Ellington, Basie, and others a joy that was missing from much of the rest of his life.  One warning for serious Jazz fans -- for Larkin, the downfall of Jazz began with Charlie Parker.  He had no interest in Parker, Mingus, Miles Davis, or almost anyone who recorded after the later 40's.  In fact, he lumped Charlie Parker with Ezra Pound and Pablo Picasso as person with reputations as great artists, but whom he felt had a terrible effect on their art.  In some ways, this book tells you as much about Larkin as Jazz.  Nevertheless, the enthusiasm he had for Jazz, and his skill as an essayist make this an enjoyable book.	2001-09-07
US	50235163	R1NM24TDY4V521	0025236601	942870969	The Campaigns of Napoleon	Books	5	47	49	N	N	A thorough survey of the Napoleon's campaigns	David Chandler provides a thorough review of Napoleon's 60 battles.  He demonstrates that Napoleon, while not an innovator in tactics, was nonetheless a master of innovations developed by others and was capable of great innovation.  The subject, of course, is extremely broad, and as long as this book is, it could have been much longer.  Chandler omits a great deal of biographical detail about Napoleon to concentrate on his development as a military leader.  Indeed, if you find this book too long to read or expensive to buy, I suggest getting a copy from the library and just reading the chapter that gives an overview for how Napoleon went about conducting his campaigns.<br />I do not agree with those who say that Chandler exhibits a British bias.  He clearly sees Napoleon as the greatest military leader of his time, and perhaps of all time.  In other writings, he has soundly rejected comparisons made by other historians between Hitler and Napoleon.  Moreover, he makes clear that, at least in the early years of his leadership, Napoleon was not to blame for the wars that engulfed Europe.<br />Finally, despite the length of the book, I found it to be extremely readable, and not hard to finish at all.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	R15CVBZS976XIZ	0688065384	783271416	Easter Day, 1941	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent novel about armored combat in WWII	G.F. Borden is very familiar with the technical issues of World War II tanks, including the Italian tank that is at the center of the book.  However, he never allows his considerable knowledge to detract from the horror of war.  Here, he describes the efforts of a tank crew far behind enemy lines to get their captured Italian tank back to safety.  His main character, an American who has been fighting fascism since the Spanish Civil War, has no illusions about war.  You need not be obsessed with World War II to enjoy this book; it is well-plotted, and the characters are quite believable.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	RYPT2AOONQF76	0208020063	225555316	Faint Praise: American Tanks and Tank Destroyers During World War II	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Why Americans did not produce better tanks	Since the US was the world's largest producer of cars and trucks, and during the Second World War also made excellent aircraft, it has never been clear to me why the Sherman Tank, the main battle tank for the US during the Second World War, was so inferior to the German Panthers and Tiger IIs. The author explains that the US military learned the wrong lessons from the Battle of France; they concluded that tank vs. tank battles were rare, and that tanks were mainly to be used against infantry and other soft targets. The Sherman was designed to be, at least for a tank, mechanically reliable, light enough to cross most bridges designed for car and truck traffic, and cheap. Huge numbers of them were manufactured. To deal with enemy tanks, tank destroyers, which were antitank guns mounted on a tank-like chassis, but lacking much armor, were developed. The shortcomings of this approach was not made clear until 1944, when the US for the first time came up against large number of first rate German tanks. American tank crews soon found that they could only destroy German tanks by getting very close; before they could do this, the German tank, with a larger gun and heavier armor, would often destroy the American tank. A good fictional discussion of the problem can be found in the novel &quot;761,&quot; which is about an African-American tank group during the war. This book is excellent for anyone interested in armored combat during the Second World War.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	RI5MQB6I6XIIS	0472085840	391086151	Required Writing: Miscellaneous Pieces 1955-1982 (Poets on Poetry)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Larkin on poetry and jazz	Anyone familar with Larkin's poetry will want to read this book of essays on literature and jazz. In it he demonstrates the same humor, common-sense, and intelligence that can be found in his poetry. His strong preference is for poets who are not deliberately obscure or difficult. Indeed, at times Larkin can sound almost anti-intellectual. This is misleading; he is very serious about his art. In this collection, he shows great insight into the works of other 20th Century British poets. His essays on jazz are more melancholy; for Larkin, jazz started going downhill with Bop. Nevertheless, his comments on jazz are insightful.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	RJGP7JO85KNLX	1878179039	339602300	Seven Six One: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent novel of WWII armored combat	G.F. Borden seems to be an expert on tanks in World War II, having earlier written &quot;Easter Day&quot; about a tank crew behind enemy lines trying to get themselves and their captured Italian tank to safety. Seven Six One is about an African-American tank battalion during World War II. Interestingly, none of the characters ever expressly say that the soldiers in this unit are black, but even if you don't know anything about the Seven Six One, it is quickly apparent. Borden is familiar with the shortcomings of the Sherman tank compared to German Panthers and Tiger IIs, and portrays the courage of the men who continue to fight in inferior machines. He also shows how well the Germans fought up until the end of the war, even though it was obvious to everyone that they were going to lose. This book does not glorify war, but it justly glorifies men who willingly chose combat as a way of demonstrating that they were as good Americans as anyone else.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	R1PY5WTPDHQRAY	0241118387	117566143	Monty: The Field-Marshal 1944-1976 (v. 3)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	First-rate military biography	Field Marshall Montgomery has a poor reputation in the US. This is due to two related reasons: (1) the movie &quot;Patton&quot; for which General Bradley, who detested Montgomery (and didn't care that much for Patton either), was a technical adviser, and (2) Montgomery's ability to offend almost every American General who worked with him during the war. While Montgomery was truly obnoxious, he also was a complete professional when it came to fighting battles. He had been deeply affected by the great loss of life suffered by the British during World War I, and was determined to hold down casualties in World War II. His critics have argued that this caused him to miss opportunties, but the soldiers who served under him were grateful for his caution. Nigel Hamilton is a superb biographer, carefully explaining how Montgomery's theories of battle and not ignoring his personal flaws. This volume covers the end of the War, when Montgomery so angered Eisenhower towards the end of the Battle of the Bulge that the latter drafted a letter demanding Montgomery's removal. This was avoided only when Montgomery got wind of Eisenhower's anger, and abjectly apologized. The end of his life is sad, as he alienates his son and his remaining friends.	2001-09-04
US	50235163	R3I6QTU9DUWCFD	0192835319	569572839	Life of Johnson (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	59	61	N	N	This deserves to be called a &quot;World's Classic&quot;	Boswell was not the obvious choice to write the best biography about Samuel Johnson, much less one of the greatest biographies in world literature. He had much less contact with Johnson than Mrs. Thrale, for many years a close friend of Johnson who spent much more time with him than did Boswell. In fact, Boswell spent perhaps 400 days with Johnson over a period of many years. He also was not Johnson's literary executor. Finally, Boswell was regarded by many of his day, and afterwards, as something of an 18th Century celebrity hound. He made a point of meeting every famous person he could (Voltaire, Rousseau), and went to great efforts to make himself famous. Nevertheless, in his Life of Johnson, Boswell succeeded in portraying Johnson and his circle so vividly that more than 200 years later they come across as real human beings. He did this by breaking the convention of concentrating only on the most favorable aspects of his subject's life, and instead describing Johnson's eccentricities of dress, behavior, etc. Moreover, Boswell did not neglect to include incidents that make himself appear ridiculous. The book is both extremely funny and moving. If you read this, you will want to immediatley get a copy of Boswell's book on the trip that Johnson and he took to the Hebrides.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R2ZJRE630JKWO8	0670807737	400446653	Brute Force: Allied Strategy and Tactics in the Second World War	Books	4	19	20	N	N	A controversial but well written book	Remember all the World War II movies where a handful of American or British soldiers mow down scores of German soldiers because the Allies are smarter?  Ellis' argument here is that the Allies won the war not by being smarter that than the Germans but by outproducing them in war material by a huge margin.  Ellis produces a substantial amount of evidence to support his claims. For example, the famous Luftwaffe bombing of London in 1940 cannot compare to the tremendous number of bombs dropped by the Allies on Berlin.  Part of the reason for discrepancy in production is that the Allies, as stable democracies, were quicker to put their economies on a war footing.  Unfortunately, the innovations they used to increase production beyond levels previously believed possible did not extend to military tactics. The result were higher casualties and a longer war than might have othewise been the case.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R38RCL5H2QL6WI	0684804522	553808911	The Garden of Eden	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A surprisingly good novel, but is it Hemingway?	Garden of Eden was published approximately 20 years after Hemingway's death.  Carlos Baker, author of one of the most thorough Hemingway biography, described the manuscript as being lengthy and not very good.  Thus, many were surprised when Garden of Eden was published in a shortened version, and was quite good. The novel explores themes of sexuality not touched on in Hemingway's other works, but present in his life.  The writing, while not his absolute best, compares quite favorably to Old Man and the Sea, and Across the River and Into the Trees.  It is far superior to Islands in the Stream, Hemingway's other major posthumous work.  It is impossible to know how much of the strength of this book is due to the editing or comes from the original manuscript.  Nevertheless, it deserved to be published and should be read by anyone who admires Hemingway's work.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R13XUU1APFHBUM	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	A waste of paper	No one has ever accused Tom Clancy of being a great writer, but in the Bear and the Dragon he hardly appears to be trying.  The book is poorly edited, plot lines are dropped or added arbitrarily, and the dialogue is so bad that it has to be read to be believed.  In some of his earlier books, Clancy did show that he could construct a fast-moving plot, and turn out entertainment, if not art.  But at this point in his career, he can't even do that.  Of course, he continues to sell well based on his earlier work, but you have to wonder how long this will continue.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R3T3TA9QPWASRP	0140433880	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	George Eliot's greatest novel	Middlemarch has been described as the one Victorian novel written for grownups.  Here, Eliot combines the multiple and interlocking plot lines so beloved by the Victorians with adult characters facing real problems.  Particularly engaging is Dorothea Brooke's efforts to find a way to serve, if not achieve, greatness.  Rather than undertake some great work herself -- something that Victorian women were not encouraged to do -- she chooses to dedicate herself to supporting a man that she mistakenly believes to be creating a major work.  Similarly, Lydgate's slow downfall is realistically portrayed.  Unlike many of the works of Dickens, Middlemarch's multiple plots work well together.  If you have not read anything by George Eliot, this is the book to begin with.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R1F0CZSJC93HLX	0816029717	478142260	World War II: A Statistical Survey: The Essential Facts and Figures for All the Combatants	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Essential for anyone who is looking for the details of WWII	This book is aptly titled; it consists almost entirely of tables listing every statistical detail about World War II.  Want to know what Bulgaria's order of battle was?  Need to know how many aircraft carriers Japan build during the war?  The range of Soviet tactical bombers?  It's all here.  On the other hand, there is little narrative, and the book assumes a detailed knowledge of World War II.  However, you will not find so much information collected in one place anywhere else.  Definitely not for everyone, but very valuable for anyone who wants to know (sometimes obscure) facts about the War.  The one weakness of the book, as has been pointed out, is the absence of citation to primary authorities.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R31PIOYC0RKQMB	1570033692	627031031	O Lost: A Story of the Buried Life	Books	3	21	32	N	N	Interesting, but not revolutionary	Look Homeward Angel has for decades been a standard coming of age book read devotedly by people in their late teens and early twenties. Over the years, stories developed concerning the amount of cutting that editor Maxwell Perkins (who also edited Hemingway and Fitzgerald) did on the book. The accepted wisdom was that Perkins pulled a masterpiece out of a huge, unpublishable manuscript. This edition, which is based on Wolfe's orginial manuscript and uses his chosen title, shows that while Perkins did help to shape the book, the text that he began with was not the monstrosity it was later believed to be. Some of the cuts Perkins made, such as W.O. Gant's memories of Gettysburg, would appear in Of Time and the River, and Perkins later admitted that he was wrong to cut it. Other material that one reads for the first time seems less important. Overall, I did not find the book to be that different from Look Homeward Angel. It shows both Wolfe's strengts and weaknesses, his abiliy to create Whitmanesque passages, and to engage in self-indulgent prose. I agree with the other reviewers that it is unfortunate that this book so quickly was allowed to go out of print. Whichever version you read, this is a book best read before you are 30.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R3PXF7G4U2LO34	0786704373	359013976	The Worst Journey in the World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of greatest true adventure stories.	In search of adventure, Cherry-Garrard joined Captain Robert Scott's expedition to the South Pole, even though he was extremely nearsighted.  His book is primarily devoted to a trip that he and two other members of Scott's expedition to the South Pole made to retrieve penguin eggs that were only laid during the depths of the Antarctic winter. Given the lack of knowledge of the terrain, and the horrible weather the men faced, the trip seems crazy to a modern day reader. However, these men were strong believers in the Victorian/Edwardian cult of heroism and science. Of course, they were nearly killed several times, and Cherry-Garrard's companions died with Scott on his trip to the South Pole. Cherry-Garrard's prose style is underrated -- although not a trained writer, he succeeds in vividly reporting on the horrors and joys of his experiences.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R2QA89EHKT11T4	0684867850	615853565	Of Time and the River: A Legend of Man's Hunger in His Youth (Scribner Classics)	Books	3	9	21	N	N	A failling-off from Look Homeward Angel	Those who enjoyed Look Homeward Angel will find this novel somewhat disappointing.  Continuing Eugene Gant's story with his trip to Harvard, and life in New York, the book lacks the vivid characters of the earlier novel.  While the book contains some wonderful, Whitman-like passages, the only real character is Eugene Gant; everyone else seems to exist only to show how brillant Gant (Wolfe) is.  Moreover, some of the book seems to border on anti-semitism.  Nevertheless, anyone interested in Wolfe will want to read this book.	2001-09-03
US	50235163	R1XC5A1K0K7QD4	0679749047	582714606	The Counterlife	Books	5	4	12	N	N	Interesting technique, and moving as well	In the Counterlife, Roth manages both to play with the concept of the novel while still creating interesting, believable characters.  Far too often writers interested in stretching the form of the novel forget how to tell a story.  Roth's Zuckerman, who appears in a number of his earlier novels, is his most memorable character.  This may be the best novel by one of America's two or three best living novelists.	2001-09-03
