US	50245100	R2MP5UC2D23BI0	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Another Gift From A Great Author	Once again, Harlan Coben continues his reign as the King of Suspense.  THE INNOCENT is nothing less than sensational.<br /><br />In THE INNOCENT, we meet Matt Hunter, a former prisoner convicted for accidentally killing a man, who now seems to finally be on the right track to a happy life.  He has a decent paying job, a pregnant wife whom he loves very much, and he is about to move into a wonderful new house.  Things really couldn't be going any better until he receives some photos of his wife with another man.  The next thing you know, he is running from the police, and to make matters worse, his best friend from school is heading the investigation.<br /><br />This novel combines a series of plot twists that will keep you guessing.  Coben masterminds a superb environmet of characters from dead nuns to missing stippers, just to name a few.  As in all of Coben's books, the clever, fast-paced dialogue makes this novel that that much better.  You cannot help but be intrigued by the personal battles the protagonist goes through.  THE INNOCENT is one fierce ride.	2005-06-25
US	50245100	R29W81AJ1KJUX9	0743483472	713074467	Adam Copeland on Edge (WWE)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quite Pleased	I must say that I was fairly impressed by Adam Copeland's account of his rise to the top of the WWE.  In his own words, Edge chronicals the trials and tribulations that made him the wrestler and man that he is today.    Peppering his book with just the right amount of humor, it is a fairly quick read as the language just seems to flow in a nice manner.  His personal stories and anecdotes give the book a nice friendly aura to it, and it is hard not to get a feel for what he was going through along the way simply because he wrote every word of it by himself without a ghost writer.  This autobiography will definately keep you on Edge.	2004-12-09
US	50245100	R2N3JD5STEPI79	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Plum Pickings - Another Excellent Read	The wacky, maniacal world of New Jersey's favorite bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum, is back and crazier than ever.  Janet Evanovich has outdone herself again with the eighth book in this excellent series.<br />Evelyn Soder and her daughter have taken off, leaving an already in debt ex-husband, Steven, who wishes to collect on a child custody bond that will evict Evelyn's grandmother out of her home.  Making matters worse, the grandmother, Mabel Markowitz, happens to be her parents next door neighbor.  The stakes are high and the handcuffs are a plenty (literally) in this fast-paced adventure.<br />All of the regular characters are back, including the hilarious,  scene-stealing Grandma Mazur, who is chock full of one-liners.  Her views on cybersex are laugh out loud funny, and that alone should be worthy of the price of this book.  The most interesting love triangle in the history of novels is also back in full force, with Stephanie still lingering between the hunk of a cop, Joe Morelli, and her secretive partner in crime, Ranger.  Stephanie's sister Valerie also has a more prominent role in this book, not to mention the introduction of a sweet, yet pathetic new character, who a real \\"clown\\" of a lawyer.  <br />HARD EIGHT is still loaded with Evanovich's humor and intrigue, yet there is a slightly darker undertone to the writing, which makes for different, yet enjoyable read.  This novel has enough mystery, romance, and humor to satisfy all of the regular Stephanie Plum readers, while also capturing a whole new breed of reader.  <br />Overall, this was a rip-roaring, page-turning novel that was a pleasure to read.  HARD EIGHT will not dissappoint.	2002-08-06
US	50245100	R1VC2WMFS60CAT	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	8	9	N	N	GONE FOR GOOD, Great Forever	I don't know how it is possible, but Harlan Coben just keeps getting better.  Fresh off the heals of one of the best suspense mysteries of the year with TELL NO ONE, Coben kicks it up a notch with another smash hit.<br />GONE FOR GOOD will have you flipping pages faster than sailors on shore leave.  It is the story of Will Klein, a man who's first love was brutally murdered supposedly by his own brother who has been in hiding for eleven years.  After his mother's death, he is led to believe that his brother is in fact innocent of the crime and is still alive.  To confuse him more, the woman he is planning to marry disappears, leaving behind a trail of clues that make her the person she was not believed to be.<br />This mystery has a plethora of plot twists that will keep you guessing and then second-guessing once you think you know what is going on.  Coben creates a wonderful atmosphere with intricately diverse characters, each having his or her own story leading in a different direction, but he ties them up nicely throughout the book.  This book has slightly more humor (not as much as the amazing Myron Bolitar series), which peppers the flow of the novel quite well.<br />As in all Coben books, the dialogue makes the story, and that is no different here.  Whether it is the witty banter between Squares and Will, or the laying-it-all-on-the-line passionate heartfelt emotion, you can't help but be intrigued by this book.  With the edge of you seat suspense, thrilling mystery, good vs. evil, and passion-filled romance, this book truly has it all.  GONE FOR GOOD is one wild ride!	2002-05-07
US	50245100	R1QOS1JA8EZC98	067100042X	851255898	Silent Night	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sleep In Heavenly Peace	Mary Higgins Clark has a countless number of excellently written books, and this one is just another addition to her wonderful collection.  In SILENT NIGHT, Clark writes another super Christmas time thriller.<br />With her husband stricken with Leukemia, Catherine Dornan is about to take her two boys, Michael and Brian, to the hospital to present him with a very special gift.  While out on the streets, Catherine accidentally drops her wallet with this special gift, a St. Christopher medal, and Brian chases after the woman, Cally, who picks it up.  From there, the novel really takes off as Brian is eventually kidnapped and held captive by an escaped prisoner on a race to the Canadian border in the midst of a heavy snowstorm.<br />In this ferociously fast-paced story, Clark manages to mesh together an outstanding cast of diverse characters, all of whom tie in to the search for Brian.  The well-developed plot is constantly changing, leaving the reader in a pleasant, rapid page-turning frenzy.  <br />Overall, this is a very well-written book that is hard to put down.  Clark is an amazing storyteller, and her imagery and detailed writing make for an enjoyable read.  The suspense will have you on the edge of your seat, as this is not a calm and silent night.	2002-01-13
US	50245100	R34WZ9XDCXARMB	0743212002	880713578	Deck the Halls	Books	4	7	7	N	N	'Tis The Season	Both Mary and Carol Higgins Clark are well-renowned authors, and have written countless good books between the two of them.  Finally, we get the chance to see them work together.  This collaborative effort is quite good.<br />In DECK THE HALLS, writer Nora Reilly is in the hospital with a broken leg.  Her husband and his driver are kidnapped by a client, and held for $1 million ransom.  In a race against time, not to mention the own personal friction between the two kidnappers, several characters from the past are included in the suspense.<br />What truly makes this novel entertaining is the diverse mesh of interesting characters.  Both writers include some of your favorites from other stories.  With a plethora of plot twists peppered with some incredibly zany situations, DECK THE HALLS is a real good read.  The storyline is easy to follow, and the witty dialogue helps move it along nicely.<br />This is a pleasurable, light read, and one that is perfect for this time of year.  DECK THE HALLS will definately leave you feeling quite jolly.	2001-12-18
US	50245100	R1HFRNEVMM2KPN	0312262590	910287592	Strip Poker (Sierra Lavotini Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;Uncle&quot; Moose Lavotini, Come On Down	The beautiful and classy Sierra Lavotini is back in her fourth page-turning adventure.  The action is fierce and the stakes are high in this hysterically funny book.<br />Nancy Bartholomew is quickly becomming a stand-out mystery writer with a nice collection of books.  In STRIP POKER, exotic dancer Sierra Lavotini's boss, Vincent, has gambled away the club, and is arrested for murder.  While Sierra and the girls walk-out on the new owner, she must find a way to clear Vincent's name so she can make next month's trailor payment.  During her escapades, she has to deal with a life-and-death family crisis, her boyfriend's ex-wife, and the infamous New Jersey crime boss, Moose Lavotini.<br />The book flies by at a blistering pace, peppered with humor, witty dialogue, and some of the strangest settings you could ever imagine.  All of the regular characters are back, including the ever-popular, alien-hunting, machine-gun-carrying Raydean.  Her off-the-wall, wacky humor is unmatched, and helps make the book one incredibly enjoyable read.  <br />The storyline is fantastic, and the suspense factor is wonderful.  Bartholomew keeps you guessing right through to the explosive ending, in which you are still left wondering if what you read really happened.  This excellent book is a can't miss.  STRIP POKER will leave you &quot;royally flushed.&quot;	2001-12-09
US	50245100	R3ZMP62WBEGDT	0312977441	193819579	Film Strip (Sierra Lavotini Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The &quot;Stephanie Plum&quot; Of Florida	Nancy Bartholomew has done it again.  In this third book of the Sierra Lavotini series, the action and intrigue is non-stop.<br />Sierra, who claims to have &quot;family&quot; ties, is the classy, headlining exotic dancer at The Tiffany.  When a pair of visiting stippers get gunned down and her co-worker, Marla the Bomber, is arrested as the primary suspect, Sierra must spring into action to get to the bottom of the crime.<br />All of the regulars are back, including the crazy, yet irreplaceable, scene-stealing Raydean.  Sierra's love interest with top cop John Nailor also heats up in this book, so watch out for the sparks.  Bartholomew does a fantastic job of meshing all of these diverse characters together into one intersting mystery.  The dialogue and scenarios are quite funny, and this humor peppers the already excellent, cohesive writing.<br />This is a very entertaining book, and is sure to make you laugh out loud several times, let alone, flipping the pages in a rapid motion.  FILM STRIP is another excellent effort.	2001-12-06
US	50245100	R2KMT3VP2ZOOMQ	0399147896	48077056	Full Court Press	Books	5	3	7	N	N	One Slam Dunk Of A Novel	Mike Lupica, once again, proves that he is not just another sports' reporter.  I have long been a fan of this talented writer, mostly for his in-depth commentary on the professional sportsworld.  But, riding off the iron-hot coat tails of BUMP AND RUN, Lupica has written another masterful novel.<br />A scout for the New York Knights named Eddie goes to Europe to check out the once popular Earthwind Morton to give the flailing team some life and added ticket sales.  Instead, Eddie is impressed with Dee Gerard, and he brings her back to be the first woman player in the NBA.  At first, self-help guru-turned-owner, Michael De La Cruz, looks at this as a money-making publicity stunt, as he becomes the mastermind behind this whirlwind media frenzy.  However, he along with the rest of the league, soon finds out that the girl can play.  <br />Lupica does a wonderful job of intermingling several diverse and silly characters into a nice, cohesive plot.  There is a lot of humor and some amazingly interesting situations that help to make for a page-turning delight.  <br />This is yet another excellent book by a talented author.  The storyline has its fair share of ups and downs, but is really easy to follow as you'll laugh the whole way through.  FULL COURT PRESS is a can't miss.	2001-11-29
US	50245100	R1GFNR8T7432NQ	1885593317	470012209	Kids Learn America!: Bringing Geography to Life With People, Places & History (Williamson Kids Can!)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Perfect Information Source For Children	Did you know that Minnesota, the &quot;Land of 10,000 Lakes&quot; has an amazing 90 lakes called Long Lake?  Or did you know that the two Choctaw Indian words &quot;okla,&quot; meaning people, and &quot;humma,&quot; meaning red, makes up the state Oklahoma?  Well, these facts along with a plethora of other information can be obtained in this fantastic book.<br />This book is absolutely perfect for children.  Each state is consisely laid out in an easy-to-read format that is loaded with information.  The drawings are also excellent in peppering the pages to break up all of the details.  <br />This is a type of hands-on book that challanges children to learn about their country in fifty educationally-fun geography lessons.  This book gives its readers a lesson in human spirit by teaching  a little bit about America's past, while imploring everyone to partake in it's future.  This book is a must read for children.	2001-11-22
US	50245100	R3A5033ZU0VFWW	0345376749	121905283	Dead Folks' Blues (Harry James Denton Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Butler Didn't Do It	In DEAD FOLKS' BLUES, the protagonist is a newspaper reporter who is fired and becomes a private investigator.  All fictional detectives have to have some type of other professional background, and this one for Harry James Denton seems to really work.<br />When an old-college fling comes to his office wanting him to get her doctor husband out of trouble, Denton is extatic to land his first case.  Rachel pays him in advance, and he heads to her husband's hospital to do a little background checking.  In the process, he is knock out while Conrad Fletcher is murdered.  The story really takes off from there, as Harry soon finds out that there are a multitude of suspects.  No matter where Harry turns, he runs into a dead end.<br />Steven Womack does an admirable job of mingling several different characters.  They are all tied together quite nicely in a good, cohesive plot, chock full of witty dialogue and humorous situations.<br />DEAD FOLKS' BLUES is a fairly entertaining novel, and a good solid effort for the first novel in the series.  Although the ending is somewhat predictable, there are enough twists and turns to keep the reader interested.  This is pretty good thriller.	2001-10-01
US	50245100	R2TDV78J2VIXOC	0060393270	192185596	It's True! It's True!	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Perfect Book To Read With A Nice Glass Of Milk	Ever wonder what made Kurt Angle the mega-superstar that he is today?  Ever wonder what would have made a man jump from Olympic Gold Medalist to the World Wrestling Federation?  Well, look no further.  This book will answer those questions and much, much more.  It's true.  It's true.<br />Unlike many other WWF wrestlers, Kurt Angle was a star before he ever stepped into the realm of sports entertainment.  The first section of his book mainly deals with his amateur career and his jump from college to Olympic competition.  He reveals a very personal side when talking about his father's untimely death, and it gives a nice look at the man behind the wrestling persona.<br />Although Angle gives a little too much insight to the technical aspect of wrestling, his backstage stories and personal feelings toward some of the other wrestlers is quite entertaining reading.  His straightforward language makes the book a fairly quick read, and the photographs that pepper the book are extraordinary.  The entire book is put together quite nicely.<br />IT'S TRUE!  IT'S TRUE! is another successful book put out by the WWF.  It is not a tell-all book, but it is quite interesting and hard to put down.  This book will not dissappoint.	2001-09-25
US	50245100	R3AY92UZ74JPUU	0345434471	487267340	L. A. Requiem (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Driving a S&quot;pike&quot; Through a Friendship?	Just when you thought that Robert Crais couldn't get any better, he does.  In the eighth book of the Elvis Cole mystery series, anything is possible.<br />When a former girlfriend of Elvis' partner, Joe Pike, is found murdered in the hills above Los Angeles, the sparks fly at an unbelievably rapid pace.  The girl's father, a high roller with the city, considers Pike as part of the family, and wants him and Elvis to assist the police in finding her killer.  With Pike's past, Elvis is pretty much left alone to deal with the police, until the murder suspect pool narrows in on, you guessed it, Pike.<br />In a storyline that just won't quit in suspense, you are taken on a rapid journey through a &quot;rush to judgement&quot; police investigation.  With a myriad of colorful characters, and a plethora of twists and turns, you can't help but flip through the pages faster than a Japanese bullet train.  <br />L.A. REQUIEM delves into Pike's past, as well as his personal life, giving the reader a much better overall view of the mysterious Joe Pike.  With Crais' usual witty dialogue, and sophisticated violence and revenge, this is one riveting and entertaining read.  This book is a must read.	2001-09-18
US	50245100	RGLBF67HY391Q	048641468X	626305528	Nostradamus and His Prophecies (Dover Occult)	Books	5	91	92	N	N	A Complete Book	The words of Nostradamus have never been more popular than at this very time.  With the recent tragedies, many people are intrigued by his prophecies and their relations to modern times.  Look no further for the most definitive book on the prophet.<br />With the word for word French and English translations, this is the most complete, comprehensive collection of Nostradamus' prophecies.  Each quatrain is accompanied by literary notes, historical backgrounds, geographical references, and intellectual theories.  <br />NOSTRADAMUS AND HIS PROPHECIES also has a very thorough biography that is loaded with pertinent and interesting facts.  A copy of his last will and testament and his letter to France's King Henry are also included in this amazing book.  <br />What truly makes this book stand out is the indexes.  The fantastic word index makes it so easy to find what you are looking for, the book practically reads itself.  With a plethora of maps, illustrations, and genealogies, this is a very complete book that makes for interesting reading.	2001-09-15
US	50245100	R3Q7TD87NVFY0I	034543448X	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This Book Won't Have You Seeing &quot;Red&quot;	Taking a break from his successful Elvis Cole mystery series, Robert Crais has come out with this amazing novel.  DEMOLITION ANGEL is a fast-paced, non-stop thriller that you will not be able to put down.<br />Carol Starkey, once Los Angeles' best &quot;bomb squad&quot; technician, is now struggling as a detective in the Criminal Conspiracy Section in the LAPD.  It has been three years since she was pronounced dead at the scene of bomb detonation, and she is suffering through alcoholism and a Tagamet addiction.  Starkey is called to the scene to investigate an explosion that has killed an officer, and she is in for the ride of her life, trying to catch one of the country's biggest terrorists.<br />Crais does an awesome job of piling on plot twist after plot twist.  The book flies by and you can't help but get caught up in this amazing, yet totaly believable storyline.  Crais brings together a super group of interestingly diverse characters and meshes them together incredibly well.<br />This is a well-written book that thrills the reader with suspense, intrigue, and &quot;fireworks.&quot;  You will not be able to put this book down.	2001-09-05
US	50245100	R3LS8UYWKDTTV5	0945774486	93312946	Labor Day	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;Labor Day&quot; Reading	Sitting at my local bookstore on Labor Day, I was looking for anything to read.  Sure enough, this book grabbed my attention, maily because of the title.<br />If there is one thing that I can say about LABOR DAY, it reads extremely fast, as I finished it in one sitting.  Having never heard of Floyd Kemske, I was surprised to find out that this is actually the fourth novel in a series.  <br />LABOR DAY is about a union president who has to oppose an organized stand by his very own office staff.  There are many plot twists, and a few tangled love interests to keep your interest throughout the quick read.  <br />The writing is fairly crisp, and well-planned.  Kemske's use of irony is seditious to say the least, but it helps the storyline move along reasonably well.  Overall, LABOR DAY was good, light reading.	2001-09-04
US	50245100	RRTUYIX182WZ1	3829021860	48220476	The Penis Book	Books	4	7	7	N	N	This Book Really Grows On You	This is the perfect coffee table book.  Not only will it be a conversation piece, but it will be the life of any party with its humor.<br />Loaded with &quot;read between the lines&quot; type humor, THE PENIS BOOK proves to be quite insightful, answering some questions that you were always too afraid to ask.  From ancient Japanese fertility rituals to modern-day circumcisions, this book has it all.  Hilarious pictures, funny captions, and a few entertaining stories grace the pages of this short book.  It is very easy to read, and on the whole, the book is designed nicely. <br />THE PENIS BOOK is done very tastefully, and you can't help but be intrigued by the incredible facts presented.  It is a very entertaining read that is sure to make you laugh out loud.	2001-09-01
US	50245100	R2FKY0IXEFNPMX	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Thriller With Some Kick	Robert Crais is quickly becomming the master of suspense. Having stellar success with his &quot;Elvis Cole&quot; mysteries, he comes out with another amazing stand-alone thriller.<BR>HOSTAGE is a page-turning literary delight. Three hit-and-miss young armed robbers take shelter in a house where they have found themselves three hostages. Upon negotiations, the leader stumbles upon a million dollars in cash within the house, and now getting away is his only thought. The chief of police, and one-time L.A.P.D. hostage-crisis specialist, gets thrown into the puzzle when his wife and daughter are threatened. Throw in the mob, the FBI, and a plethora of unique, diversified characters, and you have one entertaining, edge-of-your-seat novel.<BR>Crais once again clearly shows his cohesive, masterful writing style that has you turning pages at a record pace. He brings together a multitude of interesting characters in an outstanding setting. The story is very believable, and you can't help but think of the many possibilities. Overall, this is one fantastic novel. The suspense is wonderfully drawn out, making for a very nice, complete book. HOSTAGE is another solid work by Robert Crais.	2001-08-30
US	50245100	RMKA6T5MKERWI	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Elvis In The Bayou	Elivs Cole, the self-proclaimed &quot;World's Greatest Detective,&quot; is back again for his fifth novel. This time, Elvis leaves the west coast, and takes on Louisiana.<br />Cole is hired by a popular television personality to find her biological parents in Louisiana. Upon his investigation, he finds a lot more than meets the eye, and people begin to wind up dead. When Cole's &quot;silent partner,&quot; Joe Pike is brought in, they uncover an illegal alien operation, causing a lot more problems.<br />Robert Crais does another fantastic job in developing the storyline. He peppers his writing with sardonic dialogue and witty humor. He develops some outstanding characters, bringing the story together quite nicely at the end. Although the ending seemed to be slightly rushed, the novel is an overall excellent read. Crais does another stand-up job of creating a solid, cohesive plot that is fun to read. VOODOO RIVER will not disappoint.	2001-08-30
US	50245100	R3LMWBDRJRN8RD	0847821722	162452318	New York Noir: Crime Photos from the Daily News Archive	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Step Back In Time	If you are a fan of photography, this book is definately for you. NEW YORK NOIR is chock full of amazing photographs that were the staple of the &quot;New York Daily News.&quot; In this book, you get to see some of the poignant images that help define the term noir, and its connection to the silver screen industry, not to mention its effects on tabloid journalism. Many of these same black and white photogrpahs were often used as references to assist in making modern day motion pictures, helping to give a look into the past. From the days of &quot;Three-Gun&quot; Turner to the electrocution of Ruth Snyder, this book captures New York's horrid crime life in a candid, in-your-face style. There is nothing but unhidden truth in each and every photograph. NEW YORK NOIR is a well designed book loaded with powerful images and somewhat detailed descriptions. It is fascinating, riveting, and gives you a decent look at the roots of photojournalism. You can't help but be intrigued by the gritty, graphic photos that once graced the pages of a daily newspaper. It is one amazingly good book.	2001-08-25
US	50245100	R35OSDWEPK9SBO	0786889152	327415185	Sunset Express: An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wisecracking At Its Finest	Robert Crais has done a wonderful job of writing in the Elvis Cole mystery series.  The wisecracking private investigator is back for the sixth novel in his series.<br />Cole is hired by the leading attorney for a multi-millionaire arrested for the murder of his wife.  Cole is hot on the tail of the Los Angeles Police Department in suspecting that they have planted evidence in this murder case.  As Cole and his &quot;hired muscle&quot; partner, Joe Pike, investigate further, the evidence starts to turn on the defense team.  Things heat up with everyone wanting a piece of the self proclaimed &quot;World's Greatest Detective.&quot;  Throw in a surprise visit from Lucy, Cole's love interest, and you have an intense thriller.<br />What always makes Crais' novels so great is his well-developed, interestingly complex characters.  He weaves an amazingly intricate storyline around these characters with well-described settings, making for a complete book. <br />This is another solid effort by Crais, and an excellent novel that is a pleasure to read.  Enjoy the ride.	2001-08-22
US	50245100	R1GFAPZBPCELU6	0760310459	76675332	The American Bicycle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One Colorful Book	This is an amazing book.  The history of the American bicycle has never been more beautifully depicted than on the pages of this book.<br />THE AMERICAN BICYCLE is chock full of super photographs and illustrations of bicycles through the years.  From the very first large-wheeled bicycles to the lightweight speedsters of today, this book covers it all.  The book is divided into several detailed sections that fully describe a period of time in bicycle manufacturing.  The book covers all of the main producers, especially Schwinn.<br />THE AMERICAN BICYCLE takes an in-depth look at some of the more unique bicycles, and ventures into the realm of collecting and restoration.  This book truly was interesting reading.  The colorful photographs and diagrams and the carefully crafted writing make for a wonderful &quot;coffee table book,&quot; that is sure to be conversational piece in any household.	2001-08-16
US	50245100	R22ECWNL5FUSCZ	1929766009	303754455	Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888 (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Well-Done Timeless Classic	Originally submitted to a newspaper in 1883, Ernest Lawrence Thayer's poem &quot;Casey at the Bat&quot; has become an American classic.  In essence, it is baseball's equivalent version of &quot;Twas the Night Before Chritsmas.&quot;<br />&quot;Casey at the Bat&quot; has become a part of pop culture, and is still one of the most talked about stories of all time.  Christopher Bing takes the wonderful classic, and adds in some amazing illustrations to make for a fantastic children's book.  Presenting the poem with a myriad of sepia toned images is exceptional.  The book reads like a scrapbook, with amazing-looking old newspaper clippings that reflect the times of the story.  There are also pictures of old currency and replica baseball tickets to give it a more complete feel.<br />This book is put together quite nicely.  Again, the illustrations are perfect, and the scrapbook appearance gives it a genuine look of something that you will want to treasure with your children.  This is a classic poem that every person should have the benefit of hearing.  Christopher Bing's version is the best I've ever seen, and is a must for any family with children.  There will be plenty of joy in your home with this book.	2001-08-06
US	50245100	R3VOVHADZ6F3X6	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Great Change of Pace	James Patterson, the superb suspense writer, totally changed his writing perspective with SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS.  Patterson, known for his heart-pounding thrilling novels, will make your heart pound in a different way with this sensitive love story.<br />Katie Wilkinson is dumped by her boyfriend, Matt.  He leaves her a gift, a diary that was kept by his first wife, Suzanne, for their son, Nicholas.  Katie, not having the heart to destroy the handwritten book, begins to read the diary, against all of her better intuisions.  <br />While reading, Katie gets to know the intimate and personal feelings of Suzanne, Matt, and their infant son, Nicholas.  Katie becomes a piece of the background, viewing their lives and noticing the love and devotion between them.  Katie learns a great deal more about Matt, increasing her own personal wisdom and renovating her heart.<br />Patterson's writing is, as always, very clear and cohesive, and he does an admirable job of mixing the laughter with the sadness in this very poignant love story.  SUZANNE'S DIARY FOR NICHOLAS is a well-calcualted, fast-paced novel that is one entertaining read.  This is highly recommended reading.	2001-08-05
US	50245100	R318UIYE9B5M60	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Plum Good Read	Stephanie Plum, the &quot;bounty hunter from hell&quot; is back for her seventh book by Janet Evanovich.  With all of her previous wacky, off-the-wall adventures, there is only one really important question left to answer in this novel: Will Stephanie blow up another car?<br />You'll have to read SEVEN UP to find out, but I will tell you this.  She does finally do something with her hair.  In this book, Stephanie is after Eddie DeChooch, an aging mobster who failed to appear at his court date for smuggling cigarettes.  It's amazing how Stephanie can't seem to apprehend the depressed, next-to-blind senior citizen, but it wouldn't be a Stephanie Plum adventure if that weren't so.  <br />All of the regular cohorts are back.  The back-of-her-mind love triangle between the hunk-of-a-cop Joe Morelli and her hot professional partner-in-crime Ranger is blossoming quite nicely, and the cliffhanger at the end of this book will leave you speechless.  Grandma Mazur is her same colorful, scene-stealing self, and we finally get to meet Stephanie's sister, Valerie.  And does she ever make a great first appearance!  Mooner and &quot;the Dealer&quot; are also back with more prominant roles, filling out a wonderful cast of characters.<br />As always, Evanovich writes a fast-flowing hilarious novel.  Evanovich likes to throw you off guard every once in a while, whether it be with inept, bufoonish bad guys, a crazy funeral viewing a Stiva's, or even a small taste of mud wrestling.  She is seemingly always on top of her game, and in touch with pop culture.  Hey, for you professional wrestling fans out there, there is even a reference to the Rock.  SEVEN UP will keep you guessing throughout, taking you on a wild ride.  It is a very entertaining read.	2001-08-04
US	50245100	R2YRWOEIONLDIW	0312976275	963436946	Hot Six (Stephanie Plum, No. 6) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Pimple From Hell	Stephanie Plum, the bounty hunter from hell, or Trenton, New Jersey, is back with her most serious ordeal yet.  She has to decide whether or not do what everyone expects her to do.  Yes folks, in this hilarious sixth book of the series, Stephanie gets a huge zit!<br />Intrigued yet?  For those of you loyal readers, the up-in-the-air question left in book five is quickly answered in the first few pages of HOT SIX.  And does it ever take off from there!  Stephanie is out to find her fellow bounty hunter, Ranger, who is the prime suspect in an organized crime murder.  The action is never boring around the &quot;bombshell bounty hunter,&quot; and it's just a matter of time before she blows up another vehicle while having a bad hair day.<br />All of the regulars are back.  Stephanie and Lula are hilarious as the know-nothing breaking-and-entering tag-team tandem.  Grandma Mazur is hysterically funny and home-life gets even funnier as she moves in with Stephanie, in hopes of getting her driver's license.  Ranger and officer Joe Morelli are also there to add the standard professionalism to Stephanie's life.  There are also some new interesting characters that add some great color to the story.  Mooner and &quot;the Dealer&quot; are excellent additions to the book, and help the plot of the story progress quite nicely.<br />As always, Janet Evanovich puts together a really well-developed storyline that keeps you guessing until the very end.  Her wit and snappy dialogue are very apparent, making for an enjoyable read.  This book is a wonderful continuation to the Stephanie Plum saga, and the cliffhanger at the end is sensational.  HOT SIX is a wild ride of thrilling suspense and non-stop humor.	2001-07-30
US	50245100	R4U4VSZCAKL8Y	0553565095	399507971	Free Fall (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Free Falling For The Hound Dog	Robert Crais has put forth another masterful novel.  The wise-cracking private detective is back again in the fourth book of this excellent series.<br />In FREE FALL, a beautiful young woman hires Elvis Cole to find out what her L.A.P.D. boyfriend is hiding from her.  He claims that it is an affair, but she thinks that there is more to it.  Upon his investigation, Cole stumbles upon a group of crooked cops, a wrongful death in South Central, and a druglord that seems to be unstoppable.  To make matters worse, Cole and his aviator-sunglasses-wearing partner Joe Pike are arrested for murder.<br />Regulars Cole, Pike, and Lou Poitras are back in this thriller, and Crais does an fine job of adding in other interesting, well-developed characters.  The snappy dialogue and intricate, cohesive storyline make for truly entertaining reading.  His short, fast-paced chapters make this a page-turning, suspense-filled thriller that culminates with an amazing ending.  This book is a can't miss.	2001-07-20
US	50245100	R32H6H20UUI86Z	0385488831	727329739	Bad Golf My Way	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Make a &quot;Magic Move,&quot; and Get This Book	Leslie Nielson, the king of slapstick comedy, has come out with one of the funniest books that I have ever read.  BAD GOLF MY WAY is one of the greatest golf instructional books ever written for the masses...well, minus those 2450 people who actually wish to improve their game.<br />This book is hysterical and the illustrated pictures are a riot.  In this instructional book, Nielson pokes fun at golf by sharing his views and unorthodox approach to the game.  His off-the-wall swing and mental aspects are hilarious.  He truly is the &quot;Arnold Palmer of Bad Golf.&quot;<br />This book will make you laugh out loud.  It is a very quick read, and one of pure enjoyment.  This is a must for any golfer.  BAD GOLF MY WAY is a hole in one.	2001-07-19
US	50245100	R3C5YJ915EUAEA	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	She Couldn't Possibly Blow Up Another Car?	Stephanie Plum, &quot;The Bombshell Bounty Hunter,&quot; is back once again in the fifth book in this hilarious series.  Janet Evanovich has outdone herself once again.<br />Stephanie has been asked by her family to find her missing Uncle Fred.  Along her search, she stumbles across a string of dead bodies, a polite, yet annoying bookie, an organized crime wedding, and a crooked garbage company.  To make matters worse, she begins having lust-filled feelings for her mentor and super-natural bounty hunter, Ranger.  With on-again-off-again feelings for Joe Morelli, she is torn between which man to choose.<br />Evanovich does a masterful job of weaving a wonderfully cohesive story around a hilarious cast of characters, who are all filled with life.  Regulars Lula, Connie, Vinnie, and the whole burg family are also back, not to forget the terrifying &quot;Book one&quot; character of Benito Ramirez, fresh out of jail.  This fast-paced book is an action-packed, page-turning thriller that keeps you guessing til the very last page.<br />This is another amazing novel by Janet Evanovich.  Her writing style flows ever so smoothly, and the humor is outstanding.  You will not want to put this book down.  Give Evanovich a HIGH FIVE on this book.	2001-07-18
US	50245100	RJYA69FRPNKFN	0553299514	594241958	Lullaby Town : An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Pinocchio Clock Sees All	How can you not love a private investigator that has Disney figurines in his office?  This is just another well-written book by Robert Crais, the third in the Elvis Cole mystery series.<br />Private investigator Elvis Cole is hired by overactive director Peter Alan Nelson to find his divorced wife and young son.  His search takes him to a small town in Connecticut, where the ex-wife has taken on a new identity as a bank manager.  Simple enough?  Not for Elvis!  It turns out that she has been laundering money for one of the largest organized crime families in New York, and she wishes to get out, but fears for the lives of herself and her son, Toby.  The story becomes even more complicated, as the money laundering appears to be isolated to one mob family member, as he seems to be back-stabbing the rest.  To make matters worse, the deep-pocketed Nelson turns up as he wants to re-enter their lives, a step that they are just not willing to make yet.<br />Cole's partner, Joe Pike, is back along for the adventure, adding that ever-so-serious, vigilante-type background.  Pike's character is the perfect compliment to Cole, making for a much more complete storyline.  As always, Cole's witty dialogue and his well-detailed actions lead to a very entertaining thriller.<br />Robert Crais does a masterful job of covering all aspects of the mystery, and keeps the reader guessing as to how Elvis and Joe can rescue this family from the mafia.  The book is one excellent  page-turning novel that culminates in an amazing, explosive ending.  This is definately one Elvis Cole adventure that you will not want to miss.	2001-07-14
US	50245100	R3AT95UDX1IYJ7	1929766009	303754455	Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888 (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Well-Done Timeless Classic	Originally submitted to a newspaper in 1883, Ernest Lawrence Thayer's poem &quot;Casey at the Bat&quot; has become an American classic. In essence, it is baseball's equivalent version of &quot;Twas the Night Before Christmas.&quot; <br />&quot;Casey at the Bat&quot; has become a part of pop culture, and is still one of the most talked about stories of all time. Christopher Bing takes the wonderful classic, and adds in some amazing illustrations to make for a fantastic children's book. Presenting the poem with a myriad of sepia toned images is exceptional and eye catchy. The book reads like a scrapbook, with amazing-looking old newspaper clippings that reflect the times of the story. There are also pictures of old currency and replica baseball tickets to give it a more complete feel. <br />The book is put together quite nicely. Again, the illustrations are perfect, and the scrapbook appearance gives it a genuine look of something that you will want to treasure with your children. This is a classic poem that every person should have the benefit of hearing. Christopher Bing's version is the best I've ever seen, and is a must for any family with children. There will be plenty of joy in your home with this book.	2001-07-14
US	50245100	RSXTKBN3QNAEG	0446523232	126600448	Kids are Punny: Jokes Sent by Kids to the Rosie O'Donnell Show	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Great Book For An Even Greater Cause	All profits from the sale of this book go to the ForAllKids Foundation dedicated to children's charities.  If that isn't reason enough to purchase this wonderful book, just know that you and your children will have countless laughs because of it.<br />I have three girls myself, and they absolutely love this book.  The whole family enjoys the countless hours of entertainment that it provides.<br />Over the years, Rosie O'Donnell has received an amazing amount of jokes that children all over the world sent to &quot;The Rosie O'Donnell Show.&quot;  In this hysterically cute book, O'Donnell compiles a bunch of her favorites that she guarantees to bring smiles and laughter to your day.  Each page of this book is loaded with humorous jokes that children took the time to send in.  The jokes are often complimented with funny drawings, that give the book a much needed personal touch.<br />This book is a real winner, and a must for any family with children.  It will not dissappoint.	2001-07-14
US	50245100	R340YK0PITHPQO	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This Book Is So Explosive, Your Home And Car Will Blow Up	Nah, that would be just too unbelievable.  Not for the bad-luck-with-hair bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum.  This fourth book in the series is one of non-stop outrageous humor.<br />Stephanie Plum is after Maxine Nowicki, and FTA who is free on a stolen automobile charge.  Her boyfriend, Eddie Kuntz, also employs Stephanie's services in hopes that she can retrieve something extremely valuable to him...love letters?  The chase is on in a page-turning frenzy, and all of the extra added elements that Janet Evanovich throws in makes the adventure that much more complete.<br />The cast of characters is sensational once again.  Stephanie's family, especially the show-stealing antics of Grandma Mazur, add color, depth, and a heck of a lot of humor to the already well-developed plot.  Straight-faced cop Joe Morelli is also back to steam up the personal scenes, and do they ever get hot in this epic.  Lula, the large prostitute-turned-file clerk-slash-wannabe skip tracer is also back, adding a hilarious friendship element with a touch of street humor.  This novel also introduces Sally Sweet, a code-breaking &quot;regional&quot; transvestite musician who spouts out the F-word every chance he can get.  Stephanie's main nemesis, Joyce Barnhardt, also has a seemingly larger voice in this novel, as the newest bounty hunter at the Vincent Plum bail bonds agency.<br />This book is outright hysterical.  Evanovich weaves together an amazing story of intrigue and thrilling suspense that flows so nicely, and ends in high speed mayhem that is just truly unbelievable.  The witty dialogue, sensational Trenton setting, and fast-paced thrilling plot make FOUR TO SCORE a real winner.  This is one of the best books in the series.	2001-07-10
US	50245100	R1SD3QMELSWUJT	0553286447	287368783	Stalking the Angel (Elvis Cole, Book 2)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Love Me Tender Elvis	In this second book of the series, Elvis Cole is back, spouting witty dialogue, trying to save the girl, and eliminate the bad guys.  Sound pretty much appropriate for a detective story?  Not when it involves a Disney-figurine-loving guy driving a yellow corvette.<br />A priceless Japanese manuscript is stolen and snappy private investigator Elvis Cole is hired to find it.  Bradley Warren and the best looking woman he has seen in weeks, Jillian Becker, need Elvis to find the Hagakure, and money is no object thanks to the blank check they left him.  In the process, Warren's daughter, Mimi, is kidnapped by the Japanese mafia, making Elvis' work that much harder.  Elvis' trail runs cold several times, as the storyline takes several unexpected twists.<br />Elvis is once again, complimented by his sociopathic, always-wearing-shades partner, Joe Pike.  Straight-faced cop Lou Poitras is also back in a minor background role, but always adding a dry humor to the novel.  Mimi, the kidnapped daughter, is a very interesting character in this book, as she is the focal point of the investigation, and it is her that brings out Elvis' human side.  If anything, STALKING THE ANGEL, opens the readers eyes to Cole's serious, yet sensitive feelings.  This human element made for a much more complete novel.<br />This was a very good book, that reads exceptionally well.  The flow is quite nice, with the amusing hero in Elvis taking center stage.  This is another solid effort from Robert Crais.	2001-06-30
US	50245100	R2S2UCLNDVZIGR	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Nineteen Bad Hair Days...And Counting	The hilarious family-tied bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum is back is the third book in Janet Evanovich's series.  In this one, Stephanie finally makes some progress.<br />Stephanie Plum, the lingerie buyer turned bounty hunter, is after &quot;Uncle Mo,&quot; the local candy store operator, known by everybody in the neighborhood as the man with the biggest heart.  Uncle Mo skips his court appearance for carrying a concealed weapon, and Stephanie, against her better wishes, goes after him to get him to &quot;reschedule.&quot;  Mo is nowhere to be found, and the body count of the local drug dealers around his store continues to rise.  Stephanie gets no help from the locals, seeing as how they all think he deserves a medal.  Throw in her off-and-on flirtations with Joe Morelli, her seemingly wacky impulse shopping sprees and mounting car woes, and you have one entertaining mystery novel.<br />Stephanie is at her finest in this book, despite her hair troubles, and lack of a sex life.  But that's what makes her New Jersey's most unconventional bounty hunter.  Lula, the prostitute turned file clerk, has a much greater voice in this novel, and she truly adds color to the story with her witty dialogue.  Police officer Joe Morelli and fellow skip trcaer Ranger are back again to add some professionalism to Stephanie's life, and of course, what would this book truly be without her clan of family in the background.  Dinner time just wouldn't be the same.<br />The book flows at a blistering pace, and Evanovich's cogent writing style is peppered with just the right amount of humor.  The plot has its fair share of twists and turns, and the storyline maintains its interest throughout.  The suspense is outstanding.  It is hard not to enjoy this book.	2001-06-29
US	50245100	R3C9N9VVK0V8E6	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This Grandma Doesn't Say &quot;Where's The Beef?&quot;	This is the second book in the Stephanie Plum &quot;bounty hunter&quot; series, and Janet Evanovich puts forth another incredibly solid effort.  This book actually made me laugh out loud.<br />Stephanie Plum, fresh off of her &quot;lucky&quot; recovery is back chasing after Kenny Mancuso, who skipped his court appearance.  Fresh out of the military, Mancuso is accused of killing his one-time friend.  It turns out some &quot;cop-killing&quot; munitions are missing from the military compound he was stationed at, and they have now surfaced on the streets of several different cities.  Add in the search for 24 missing caskets, believed to have stored the munitions, and you have one amazingly intense story.<br />All of the regular characters are back.  Stephanie Plum, seemingly the world's worst bounty hunter, is also one of the luckiest people around as the trouble just seems to find her...literally.  The virginity stealing, straight-faced cop, Joe Morelli is back with his protective, yet secretive ways.  Ranger, the bounty hunter and mentor is also back, but plays a somewhat smaller role than the first Stephanie Plum book.  However, the witty Grandma Mazur clearly steals the show in this book.  She is an intricate part of the storyline, and she truly adds the real color to this novel.<br />The plot is well-developed again, and the twists and turns are plentiful.  Evanovich keeps you guessing throughout, as the suspense is great.  The story truly doesn't unravel until the final 20 pages of the book, and when it does, it happens so fast, you can't believe what you have just read.  <br />Overall, this is a truly good book.  The writing is very good, and it flows quite nicely.  The humor is outstanding.  TWO FOR THE DOUGH will not let you down.	2001-06-25
US	50245100	R3GLKX2RW2WFQ1	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	One Good Book For Your Money	This is the first book in the Stephanie Plum mystery series.  It sets the stage for the following books, and it happens to be one excellent story.<br />Stephanie Plum is a broke, out-of-work lingerie buyer, with mounting bills and a repo man after her car.  She has a nagging mother, complacent father, and a wacky, off-the-wall grandmother.  And that is just in the first chapter.  She goes to work as a skip tracer for her Uncle Vinnie.  Her first assignment, which would bring her $10,000, is to bring in a cop named Joe Morelli, who happens to be the guy that stole her sweet virginity years earlier.<br />Janet Evanovich brings together an outstanding group of characters who are all pretty well-developed.  The storyline is very nicely defined behind her descriptive writing language, peppered with humor that will make you laugh out loud several times.  Stephanie Plum is a smart, witty, exciting character in the world of mystery novels, and this first one is a good, solid effort.<br />The book is loaded with plot twists, and the ending happens so quickly in this already-fast-paced book, it totally comes about as a shocking surprise.  The suspense is superb.  ONE FOR THE MONEY is a very entertaining read, and Evanovich does a super job of setting the stage for the following novels in the series.	2001-06-21
US	50245100	R225W8BSOMUBFI	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	39	46	N	N	Tell Everyone...This Book Is Awesome	Just when you thoughts Harlan Coben couldn't get any better, he does.  He continues his literary magic with this truly phenominal book.<br />Coben, the mastermind behind the excellent Myron Bolitar mystery series, puts forth an amazing effort in TELL NO ONE.  Meet Dr. David Beck, a loyal, caring doctor who lost his wife whom he has loved since the second grade, but manages to carry on.  Left for dead himself, his wife, Elizabeth, is positively identified for dead as another victim of a serial killer.  Eight years later, he receives an anonymous e-mail on the anniversary of their first kiss, leading him to believe that she may somehow still be alive.  The twists and turns are a plentiful, and the adventure is one of non-stop excitement.<br />Coben brings together a wonderful group of characters that all blend together incredibly nicely.  From the drug-dealing yet good-hearted father, Tyrese, to special agent, Nick Carlson, this super cast of characters is so well-developed, you can't help but thoroughly enjoy this book.  There are even a few familiar names from the Myron Bolitar series, but you'll have to read the book to find out.<br />Overall, this novel is nothing less than spectacular.  Coben's unique, yet thorough writing style shines ever so brightly in TELL NO ONE.  The cogent storyline is well-developed, and the nerve-shattering suspense is outstanding, keeping you guessing until the unbelievable, surprise ending.  It will not let you down.	2001-06-20
US	50245100	R2PDBTXWCRWMQ	0440225442	730691828	One False Move (Myron Bolitar, No. 5)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;Yoo-Hoo,&quot; Yeah, You.  This Is One Great Series	Harlan Coben is the best mystery writer in the business.  Enough said.  This fifth book, as well as the other incredible novels, in the Myron Bolitar series is simply sensational.<br />Myron Bolitar, the college basketball stud-turned fed-turned sports' agent (not to mention the latest star in the upcomming Yoo-Hoo commercial), is back again for another wild adventure.  ONE FALSE MOVE is Myron's &quot;darkest&quot; tale to date.  On the brink of starting a Women's Professional Basketball League, Brenda Slaughter, the hottest star has been getting threatening phone calls.  In being called in to provide protection, Myron becomes her agent, but the adventure is just beginning.  Her mother has been missing for twenty years, and her father turns up dead, only to have her as the prime suspect.  Throw in the mafia Ache brothers, crooked politicians, and a new leader of Myron's biggest competition, and you have yourself one amazing novel.<br />All of the standard characters are back, including the ever-popular psycho-yuppie Win, the sizzling Esperanza Diaz, who is slowly but surely gaining her voice in the series, the sensational girlfriend Jessica Culver, Myron's parents, &quot;El-Al&quot; Bolitar, and &quot;Big Chief Mama&quot; herself, Big Cyndi.  Let's never forget to use the &quot;Big!&quot;<br />As in all of Coben's books, the witty dialogue makes the novel that is already so cohesively complete with an excellent storyline and a wonderfully detailed, yet unique writing style, that much better.  There are always a multitude of plot twists, and the suspense of the whodunnit mystery is apparent to the very last chapter of the book.  ONE FALSE MOVE keeps you guessing throughout, making for one entertaining and exciting read.  This book is a winner.  Case closed!	2001-06-19
US	50245100	R1J7JKWWX7D2A1	0440225450	314659227	The Final Detail (Myron Bolitar)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Best Mystery Writer Around...Case Closed	Harlan Coben is the most gifted mystery writer to enter the literary world in quite some time.  In this sixth book of the Myron Bolitar series, Coben is, again, nothing less than sensational.<br />Bolitar, owner of MB SportsReps, has taken a vacation in the Carribbean, without telling anyone.  While relaxing on the tropical beach for three weeks, his company goes to pieces, and his partner, Esperanza, is arrested for the murder of Myron's first ever client, major league relief pitcher, Clu Haid.<br />Myron is rushed back into the limelight, as a potential suspect as well as an accessory.  He is forced to scramble to keep his agency afloat, clear his best friend's name, and deal with his competition, which is run by the mafia.  To make matters worse, Esperanza wants him to back off, something that Myron just can't do.  <br />All of the loveable characters are back, and fans of Big Cindi will really get to know her a lot better in this novel.  A few new interesting characters are introduced as Myron travels through New York's sexual underground for answers.<br />There are so many wicked plot twists, the book becomes a wild page-turner instantly.  Coben's gifted writing talents shine through remarkably, and the character dialogue is perfectly snappy.  The storyline is impressively complete and well-defined.  This is simply another super effort by Coben, and one entertaining read.	2001-06-12
US	50245100	RM1P4JBR48ZD1	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Disney Figures In His Office!	If the mere hint of a private investigator with Disney figurines and a Pinochio clock in his office isn't the least bit interesting, I don't know what is.  Robert Crais has created a wonderful persona in Elvis Cole.<br />Cole, a former security guard turned private investigator, is hired by Helen Lang to find her missing husband, Mort, and son.  Before you can even begin to wonder about kidnapping, Mort is found dead in his car, and their house has been trashed, with the boy still missing.  Throw in the mafia and a spanish bull-fighter turned aristocrat, and you have one exciting novel.<br />Cole is a wonderful, wise-cracking character, complimented nicely by his mercenary partner, Joe Pike.  Together, they make a sensational team.  The storyline is nicely developed and the suspense is great.  Crais is talented writer.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book, and a really good start to the Elvis Cole mystery series.  This faced-paced story doesn't stop with the thrills until the heart-stopping, wild ending.	2001-06-12
US	50245100	R2U94F7H1OL6VR	0440235391	322161447	Darkest Fear: A Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Best Somehow Gets Better	Harlan Coben is, simply put, phenomenal.  DARKEST FEAR is the seventh book in the Myron Bolitar mystery series, and the last one for a little while.  And, it truly is outstanding.<br />This novel is slightly different than the previous six Bolitar novels, in that it is written from a much more personal level.  Myron, the college basketball star turned FBI agent turned &quot;investigative&quot; sports' agent, is back again in another thrilling novel.  Emily Downing claims that she needs Myron to find a bone marrow donor for her 13 year old son, Jeremy, dying of a rare disease.  To make things interesting, Jeremy just happens to be his son, conceived the night before she married his college nemesis, Greg, who ruined Myron's professional basketball career.<br />In DARKEST FEAR, Myron is faced with many personal challanges, and, unlike the previous six books, he is involved in many heartfelt exchanges.  This book allows us to peak into Myron's personal mannerisms and characteristics.  There are still the suspense-filled scenes, and wildly interesting investigations.  Win, as per usual, is his witty, candid self.  In a nice change of pace, Myron's parents, &quot;El-Al&quot; Bolitar, are much more vocal in this book, which makes for a more complete reading experience.<br />This novel, as in all of the other Bolitar books, is a fast-paced page-turner, with plot twists galore.  Coben continues to put out amazing, well-written books, that are a true pleasure to read.  DARKEST FEAR is absolutely fantastic.	2001-06-12
US	50245100	R3KDNB1ZW121EE	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Spenser For Hire	Actually, I would like to classify the book as 3.5 stars, as this  was a seemingly different type of Spenser novel.  However, it is Robert Parker, and he gets the benefit of the doubt with the fourth star.<br />Private Eye Spenser is back when Mary Lou Buckman hires him to find out who killed her husband, Steven, in the town of Potshot, Arizona.  In working on the case, he is further employed by some of the higher members of the city to eliminate the seedy outlaws that make up the Dell.  Led by a older man named The Preacher, this group of ruffians run the town, collecting money and instilling fear in all of the citizens.<br />Spenser recruits a lot of his old friends, including the ever-popular Hawk, that have made appearances in several other books.  There are a few turns, but not as many twists as usual in other Spenser books.<br />The one thing that Parker books all have in common is that they are loaded with dialogue.  It makes up most of this novel, and it is meshed quite nicely with his clear writing style.  <br />POTSHOT is a good effort, and has a decent enough storyline to make for entertaining reading, but it is not quite up to the usual Spenser standards.  First time Spenser readers should start with one of his earlier books.	2001-06-09
US	50245100	R2WWGYNR6K9CE0	1566395038	244551094	The Phillies Reader	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Ultimate For All Phillies Fans	Yes, I am one of the few, the proud,.....the Philadelphia Phillies' fans.  And was this book ever perfect for me.<br />I have always been a baseball fan, and my favorite team has always been the Philadelphia Phillies.  This book allowed me to travel back through the wild history of the ball club.  The stories are wonderful, but more importantly, most of them are written by top-notch newspaper reporters or well-known authors.  Some of the more personal stories, written by players, etc., are also well-done, and give a nice human touch to the book.<br />This was an intersting and entertaining read, and one that could be enjoyed by all fans of America's Pastime.	2001-06-08
US	50245100	R2YDOEKU3QJBQ1	0440222702	342901832	Back Spin (Myron Bolitar)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Coben Sinks This One, And That's No &quot;Lie&quot;	Yes, I couldn't resist all of the golf puns in my review title.  Needless to say, this book is a lot better than my title.<br />Once again, Myron Bolitar, the college basketball superstar turned FBI agent turned sports' agent, and his wonderful supporting cast are back once again in another fast-paced book.  Jack Coldren, has a large lead in the U.S. Open on the same course he choked on 23 years ago.  His wife, Linda, is the number one player on the women's golf tour, and they become Myron's lastest clients, when he agrees to help them find their son, Chad, who has been kidnapped.<br />Myron wonders through the darkest parts of Philadelphia, running into all kinds of seedy individuals along the way.  The ride is one of non-stop twists and turns, and to make matters worse, the Coldrens are part Win's, Myron's best friend, family.  Myron has to solve this case alone.<br />Most of the regular characters are back for this novel, as well as a few more.  Win and Esperanza are the perfect compliments to Myron, and as always in Coben books, all of the characters are well-developed.  The storyline is chock full of surprises, which makes for an enjoyable page-turning adventure.  Coben uses a literary witty dialogue between his characters, peppered with humorous observations, that helps the book flow so well.<br />This fourth book in the Myron Bolitar series lives up to its reputation.  It is entertaining and humorously suspensful.  BACK SPIN in one unpredictable, exciting book.	2001-05-30
US	50245100	R1MVY01XP89KB	0440220459	749710841	Drop Shot: A Myron Bolitar Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Coben Serves Up Another Ace	This is yet another solid effort by Harlan Coben.  DROP SHOT is the second book in the &quot;overhand smash&quot;-ing Myron Bolitar series.  Sorry, I couldn't help the tennis play-on-words.<br />Once again, athlete-turned federal agent-turned sports agent, Myron Bolitar graces the pages of this fast-paced book.  He is the agent of Duane Richwood, a hot twenty-one year-old tennis sensation, who is hoping to go far in his first U.S. Open tournament.  During his opening match, Valerie Simpson, a fallen tennis phenomenon wishing to make a comeback, was shot dead at the food court.<br />Upon investigating the murder, Bolitar uncovers a connection between Richwood and Simpson and a six-year-old murder.  Add in the mafia and a seemingly crooked United States' Senator, and you have one interesting novel.<br />Like all of Coben's books, the one super underlying facet is the incredibly witty dialogue that would also be perfect for television or the &quot;silver screen.&quot;  Bolitar and his friend, Win, are hilarious together, not to mention the straight humor of the wrestler-turned office assistant, Esperanza.  His characters are all so well-developed, and three-deimensional.  Even more importantly, they all are blended together so nicely.  Everyone from the snakeskin boot wearing cop, Rolly Dimonte, to the mob-muscle man, Aaron, has a very intricate role in making this such a good book.<br />The plot is fast-paced, and the twists are full of suspense and never-ending.  Coben's writing is sensational, and the storyline is very fluid as usual.  DROP SHOT is a definate page-turner.  This is a very good novel, and with the surprise ending, a very enjoyable read.	2001-05-28
US	50245100	R1Q1S23HFG1ZSK	0060972610	50396174	Legends, Lies & Cherished Myths of American History	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Book My Kids' Teacher Won't Mention	Ever wonder about the true story behind the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia?  Have you ever visited Abraham Lincoln's Log Cabin, and wonder if it is authentic?  Well, look no further.  In this book, Richard Shenkman sheds some light on some of the &quot;stories&quot; behind U.S. History as we know it.<br />This book was, if anything, a really fascinating read.  Shenkman did a lot of research in objecting to the time-held beliefs and traditions of some of the greatest pieces in American history.  He mentions several historical things, and then counters them with his own detailed views and findings.<br />The writing is very easy to follow, and the short, yet detailed chapters make the book a fairly quick read.  I can't say that the book was a total &quot;eye-opening&quot; experience, but it was rather interesting.<br />Is the tourist attraction of Betsy Ross' house really hers?  Was Colombus' reason for the journey to the New World really made up by Washington Irving?  Find out the answers to these and several questions like them in this entertaining book.	2001-05-26
US	50245100	R14GS71CUAVNDD	1584853050	579717731	Madame Amelia Tells All	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;Your Future Is In YOUR Hands&quot;	I purchased this book for my 10 year-old daughter, and she absolutely loves it.  As we read it together, I couldn't help but think of what a wonderfully positive message this book reveals.<br />Designed to look like a child's composition book, MADAME AMELIA TELLS ALL is a very colorful book that is put together quite nicely.  There are some really entertaining quizzes that help your child learn more about herself, and there are several pages loaded with words of wisdom to help her make the right decisions in life.  <br />There is a cute &quot;Career Finder&quot; that reveals what your child might be when she grows up, and the last section of the book has some &quot;Fold-Over Fortune Tellers&quot; to share with her friends.  The illustrations are excellent, as the colors just jump off the page.  I liked the book being done in handwriting, as it comes across on a more personal level.<br />Overall, this in an excellent product put out by &quot;American Girl,&quot; and one that should be read by all young girls.	2001-05-26
US	50245100	R1DUW4ZDEHYEGN	0440220440	971761343	Deal Breaker: The First Myron Bolitar Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	285	300	N	N	Read This Book, Or You'll Be "Squirrel Lunch"	You have to read the book to get the humor in my review title...<br />The first in the \\"Myron Bolitar\\" series, DEAL BREAKER is the perfect start.  Bolitar, a college basketball star turned sports' agent,... has just landed his best prospect, rookie quarterback, Christian Steele.  While negotiating his contract, Christian gets a phone call from his assumed-to-be-dead fiance... Throw in a mob contract on Myron's head, and you have one entertaining read.<br />The storyline is forever twisting, but Coben never suspends reality.  The plot is always believable and never farfetched.  Each character is incredibly well-developed, and the group meshes together quite well.  This first book serves to introduce this wonderful cast of people that will be in other \\"Bolitar\\" books.<br />What makes Coben's books so enjoyable is the dialogue between the characters.  Myron is incredibly witty, and he clearly rubs off on all the other characters in the book.  It adds a much greater human element to the novel, which allows the cogent storyline to develop exceptionally well, and keep the reader forever guessing. <br />This is an excellent book that was truly hard to put down.  The writing is sensational, and it is quite clear that Coben puts a lot of thought into each storyline.  The suspense, alone, is great, making the book that much better.	2001-05-25
US	50245100	R2MU1CQGJ23OKU	0786867752	646198134	When You Come to a Fork in the Road, Take It!: Inspiration and Wisdom From One of Baseball's Greatest Heroes	Books	4	12	12	N	N	It Ain't Over 'Til The Fat Lady Takes The Spoon In The Road	Yes, the loveable crazy anecdote king is back, and he holds nothing back in this book.  Yogi Berra guarantees that you will like this book that is 60% intellectual and 50% inspirational.<br />Confused by my weird sayings yet?  You would truly have to appreciate Yogi to get the significant meaning behind them.  In this wonderful book, you get to know him just a little bit better.<br />Berra has such an intuitive mind for the game of baseball, and he has certainly played for or coached his fair share of championship teams.  He let's us in to the secrets of the sport, not to mention his amazing pearls of wisdom.  With each gem of a story, there is a certain hidden life lesson to be learned.  He hides nothing and tells it like it is in a true, matter-of-fact type literary voice.<br />There are also some truly wonderful pictures in the book.  Overall, it flows very smoothly, and thanks to his bits of humor added here and there, the book winds up being a really quick, yet enjoyable read.  This book has a lot to offer everyone, not just fans of the game.	2001-05-23
US	50245100	R3UW2PIQQPJ7TN	0809224445	94693141	Summer of '98	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This Book Is A Gonner	In the season of the &quot;home run,&quot; Mike Lupica adds to that massive number with a well-hit &quot;dinger&quot; of his own.  I have always admired his remarkable writing ability, and this book clearly displays it.<br />Lupica has the personal knowledge of the sports' world to write hundreds of books, but here, he goes about it in a completely different way.  The baseball summer of 1998 will always be remembered for the home run battle between Mark McGwire and Sammy &quot;Say It Ain't&quot; Sosa, and their epic run at &quot;61.&quot;  However, Lupica  entered the human element of the season.  He added wonderful personal stories that brought out the emotions of his family during the wild ride.  He also peppered the book with humorous tidbits from the fans that made the book gel cohesively.<br />This book was truly a pleasure to read, and one that any baseball fan would enjoy.  It is the perfect tribute to a sensational year.	2001-05-22
US	50245100	R49RYF4JORSH	0440222680	557216593	Fade Away (Myron Bolitar)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Coben &quot;Articulates&quot; Quite Well In This Book	Yes, even Win would have to agree with my title.  Once again, Harlan Coben takes us on a remarkable journey with former fed turned sports' agent, Myron Bolitar.<br />Anyone who ever had a dream of playing professional sports, but fell short, would truly appreciate this book.  Bolitar, injured in his first professional basketball pre-season game, gets his chance once again several years later.  He is signed on to play in the NBA in hopes of finding his old college rivalry, Greg Downing, who has recently disappeared.<br />The plot twists and shocking discoveries are a plenty, as several times, my eyes seemed to have popped out of their sockets to join my jaw on the floor.  This story is well-developed, and the characters are so nicely defined, the book just flows one smooth page after another.<br />The best part of this book, as well as all other Coben books, is the witty and often hilarious dialogue.  I can easily see this appearing on the &quot;silver screen,&quot; but for the purposes of the book, it is perfect.  It makes for very entertaining reading.<br />Coben does a masterful job of tying all of his characters together, and the ending is so surprising, you can't help but enjoy the book.  FADE AWAY is a can't miss.	2001-05-22
US	50245100	R1HZV3TVJVXEUE	0312278454	487411945	Shaq Talks Back: The Uncensored Word on My Life and Winning in the NBA	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One Slam Dunk Of A Book	I must admit that I was fairly impressed with Shaquille O'Neal's book.  I don't know what I truly expected, but I must say that I was most pleasantly surprised.<br />In &quot;Shaq Talks Back,&quot; O'Neal does just that.  He vents out at all of the people that told him that he couldn't do it.  His first chapter draws you in and doesn't let you go.  He touches upon his life on and off the court, his amazing title run with the Los Angeles Lakers, and his &quot;friendships&quot; with other players in the league.<br />I have heard many critics claim that the language and writing style takes away from the book, but I truly think that is what makes the book.  Shaq is simply being Shaq, and who would want it any other way.  After all, this is his book.  I liked the flow of the book, and the unique writing style made one entertaining read.<br />Overall, it was a really good book, and the humor made it rather enjoyable.  This was a good, solid effort.	2001-05-14
US	50245100	RWR6YLAOWL1PL	0060393009	59636792	Foley Is Good: And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling	Books	5	7	8	N	N	This Book Is More Than Good	Even Triple H would say that this book can &quot;hang with the Game.&quot;  Mick Foley has done it once again, with his third successful book.<br />In &quot;Foley Is Good, And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling,&quot; Mick Foley picks up right where he left off in his &quot;towering best seller,&quot; &quot;Have a Nice Day.&quot;  In this book, he does talk about his life personally, but it is in no way an autobiography.  It picks up where the other book ended, as Foley has just become the World Wrestling Federation Champion.  Here, he chronicles some of his more important matches, as well as summarizes the last few years of his phenominal active wrestling career.<br />Foley also has a good time merely describing things that either bothers or amuses him, but he does so in such a straightforward, candid way, you can't help but enjoy the book.  His top-ten lists are sensational, but the section of the book that I truly enjoyed the most was the very end, where Foley fights back against the PTC and numerous &quot;studies&quot; done against the WWF.  Not only does he pick apart the reviews and court cases against professional wrestling, but he adds in his own research, which made for really interesting reading.  More importantly, he is classic Mick Foley, and he is truly at his best.<br />When he wants to be, he is one of the funniest men around, and he peppers his writing, especially the argumentative writing at the end of the book, with this incredible humor.  His writing style is unique in that it draws the reader in, and makes you feel as if you are simply having a conversation with him.  He clearly has a knack for writing, and it shows.<br />This book is excellent, and just as good, if not better than his first blockbuster autobiography.  I enjoyed it very much, and I urge everyone to read this book.	2001-05-14
US	50245100	R11E4XMK37QZ5M	0679455612	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Death That Teaches A Lesson In Life	Point blank, this book is excellent.  The story will remain within you long after you finish reading it.<br />In A Lesson Before Dying, a young man named Jefferson is sentenced to death for a crime that he did not committ.  He is referred to as a hog by his defense attorney, and his nannan, Emma, doesn't want him to be put to death feeling that way.  She enlists the services of Grant Wiggins, the local black teacher to try and get Jefferson to learn that he is a man and that he has to set the record straight.<br />The transformation is not an easy one, but in his meetings with Jefferson, Grant teaches himself as well as the reader a remarkable life story.  The journey is completed when we read the wonderful summary by Jefferson at the end.<br />All of the characters in the novel are so richly developed, and they intermingle extremely well with each other.  Ernest Gaines uses such a wonderfully subtle language that places the reader right into Louisiana as a part of the story, which makes for a very entertaining read.<br />This is such a complete, well-written book with so many positive messages.  It is an amazing piece of literature.  A Lesson Before Dying will leave a lasting impression.	2001-04-30
US	50245100	R2OWXT79Z9W5I3	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Truly Captivating	This is the most complete account of Nazi Germany ever written.  Unlike so many of the books on this subject, Elie Wiesel brings forth a very personal story.<br />Born in Hungary, Wiesel is deported with his family to the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz.  His story is terrifying, shocking, and extremely graphic.  He is very candid, and his incredible descriptions truly paint the vivid picture of the Nazi death camp.<br />It is hard to get through this book without feeling for Wiesel and his family, especially his father.  Reading about the horrors that the two of them went through was an eye-opening experience.  There are a lot of painful memories brought out in his excellent writing, and as a reader, I became part of the scene.  I truly felt myself running and working with the prisoners, starving on bread and soup, and feeling their anguish and utmost terror.  This book is by far, the most graphic account of Nazi Germany that I have ever read.  I was mesmorized by the story, and glued to the book.<br />There are so many hidden messages in the book, as well as some blatant ones right there on the pages in front of you.  Wiesel's descriptive language makes you want to keep turning the pages, as you struggle with him and his father for survival.  This book is one that needs to be read more, by people from all races, creeds, and religions, so that this horror can never ever happen again.	2001-04-21
US	50245100	RGMNLCSH2FPM3	0020306652	778679666	Ball Four: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Best Baseball Book Of All Time	I just finished reading this book for the third time, and it honestly never loses any of its superiority.  Hands down, there has never been a better book written by an professional athlete.<br />I remember reading this book in high school, thinking that it was truly amazing.  Now, having read the book in it's 31st year of print, it is still truly amazing.  The best thing about the book is that it gives you an honest perspective of the game from the player's point-of-view.  And Jim Bouton holds nothing back.  He is very straightforward and candid as he pulls no punches and just tells it like it is. <br />In today's day and age, anybody can, if not already has, written a tell-all book, and this truly wouldn't have been entirely possible if not for Bouton's ground-breaking Ball Four.  Written in a diary-style, Bouton tells of his adventures with two Major League Baseball teams, the expansion Seattle Pilots, now the Milwaukee Brewers, and the Houston Astros.  He cronicles his wild year, experimenting with his &quot;Superknuck&quot; knuckleball and more importantly, just trying to be one of the guys.  <br />Ball Four is well-written, not to mention, quite funny.  Bouton is a very intelligent man, and he clearly shines in this book, and comes across very well.  This is not your typical tell-all book, but more of a book loaded with wonderful behind-the-scenes stories, that really need to be told to really appreciate the game of baseball today.  The section added to the end of the book dealing with the aftermath of the publishing is priceless, and a super addition.  This is one complete book and a teriffic read.  You will not be disappointed.	2001-04-14
US	50245100	RIPYTBWUOMDC0	1852426284	369239415	Iguana Love	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sexy and Seductive	I was first tipped off to Vicki Hendricks' writing in Naked Came the Manatee, a good collaborative effort.  This book is also quite good.<br />In Iguana Love, we are introduced to Ramona Romano, a very unique woman who easily speaks and acts her mind.  Separated from her husband, she tries to invigorate her life with scuba diving and bodybuilding.  In her quest of sleeping with many men, she falls for a seedy character named Enzo, who happens to be her diving instructor.  He leads her down a negative path until we reach a very suprising ending that will knock you out of your socks.<br />This book is very erotic, especially as we take a ride with Ramona on her wild romp and conquerings.  The writing is graphic, raw, and very straightforward.  Hendricks holds nothing back with her protagonist.  Throw in the Miami background, and you've got a fairly hot novel.<br />Although some of the characters were somewhat one-dimensional, they all seemed to be nicely developed, and the plot was well drawn out.  This was a quick read, and one that was quite enjoyable, if not merely for the shocking ending, not to mention the wonderful twists and turns.  Inguana Love is a nice, yet far from wholesome, adventure.	2001-04-11
US	50245100	RSCQWJUEF5YUO	0740718363	925034624	W: The First Hundred Days	Books	4	6	6	N	N	&quot;Hillary Scares the Bejesus Out Of Me&quot;	In this book, you will find out why?  This is easily one of the funniest books that I have read in a long time.<br />Yes, it is very easy to poke fun at our president, no matter who that may be, but President Bush sure makes it simple.  In this diary-style book, the president's innermost thoughts are scribbled out in 3rd-grade penmanship.<br />The book is outright hilarious.  We get an in-depth look at the president's IRS audit list, his thoughts on making a movie about his &quot;poppy,&quot; his feelings about Dick Cheney, and his outright fear of Hillary Clinton.  The mental notes are also hilarious, and the added illustrations make for a complete funny experience.<br />This book was a really fast read, and it was extremely humorous.  It is definately for anyone with a mere pulse of a sense of humor.	2001-04-06
US	50245100	R27N3TM8XKSOD1	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Great Books For A Great Cause	The proceeds from both books go to Comic Relief U.K., which goes to improving the lives of children around the world.  If that doesn't make you want to go out and spend a mere ..... , keep in mind that these are official Harry Potter books put out by J.K. Rowling.  What better way to get your Harry Potter fix while waiting for Book #5.<br />Both small books are written like textbooks from the Hogwarts school library, which is an extremely nice touch.  &quot;Quidditch Through the Ages&quot; is an extremely imaginative book that literally walks you through the history of the game of Quidditch.  From the days of Gertie Keddle, who lived in Queerditch Marsh, to the modern day Quidditch World Cup, you'll be taken chronologically through the game's development.  In this book, you'll read about the history of the racing broom, find out the names of the most popular moves (the Woollongong Shimmy is my personal favorite), and learn about the best teams in the world.  I can't wait for the Tutshill Tornados to take on the Moose Jaw Meteorites.<br />&quot;Fantastic Beasts &amp; Where To Find Them&quot; is another excellent book that is made to look like it is one of Harry Potter's personal textbooks.  The handwritten notes in the margins are very amusing and it's nice to see that Harry has such a nice sense of humor.<br />In this book, you will find specific explanations on what a &quot;beast&quot; or &quot;being&quot; actually is.  The book also goes into great detail about the descriptions of the fantastic beasts in an A-Z format that makes for entertaining reading.<br />Both books have introductions written by Albus Dumbledore, which adds to the overall enjoyable quality of the book.  J.K. Rowling continues to put out wonderful products in the Harry Potter line, and I can't think of a better way to not only satisfy my &quot;Pottermania&quot; cravings, but help people in need.  These books are a must for anyone with children.	2001-03-12
US	50245100	R31N9Z4QC36JDP	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Let's Do The &quot;Flippy Thing&quot;	Yes, and I'm not only talking about flipping the pages.  To learn more about the &quot;flippy thing,&quot; you'll have to read the book.<br />Similar to Mick Foley's book, as well as somewhat with the Rock's book, Chyna speaks from the heart, and tells you her true-to-life story.  We get to learn all about her dysfunctional family, her horrible luck with finding a proper job, and her unbelievble curse at fitness pageants.  But, more importantly, we get to learn about Joanie Laurer and Chyna, two different personas, one outstanding person.<br />The thing that I liked most about the book was her sarcasm and humor.  Not only did it help the book move along rather quickly, but it allows you to relate to her story more.  Her witty comments and language made for more interesting reading.  <br />The book's photographs are excellent, and the comments by Triple H and Mick Foley are nice additions.  The only major beef that I had was using Michael Angeli to co-author the book.  It often seemed as if he was not very knowledgeable about wrestling, and seldom watched it.  But, other than that, this book is a real winner.  The behind-the-scenes stories are incredible and the section involving Killer Kowalski is beyond funny.<br />Any fan of the World Wrestling Federation has to read this book.  It won't take long to read, and you'll be glad that you did.	2001-03-02
US	50245100	RN7JSY686LO1R	0878574840	194662198	The Taming of the Screw	Books	4	9	10	N	N	&quot;Build Your Own House, On Second Thought, Don't&quot;	Yes, the title of my review (and the the title of the last chapter in the book) pretty much sums up this book.  The Time-Life series on home repair has absolutely nothing on this book.<br />Dave Barry is easily one of the top humor writers in the world, and this hilarious book surely shows why.  In this book, he explains how to avoid the pitfalls of everyday home-maintenance tasks.  His helpful tips, such as flushing a lit cherry bomb to clear up those tougher toilet clogs, are outright hysterical, and somewhat useful in the most extreme situations.<br />Jerry O'Brien, once again, is the perfect compliment to Barry's book with his remarkably funny illustrations.  The illustrations in the chapter on Walls are beyond hilarious.<br />On the whole, this book is tremendous.  Dave Barry makes the most difficult task seem easy, mainly because it is physically impossible to perform them, but it still makes for great reading.  This book is a can't miss, and sure to make you laugh.	2001-02-23
US	50245100	R1P94JA6XLQEY3	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Clinic On Subtlety	Subtlety.  Ha Jin takes us to school on this subject.  The book, richly written, is loaded with subtlety.<br />I enjoyed reading this book, which is probably the most appropriately titled book in the history of the written word.  Lin Kong returns home every year to his small village to his wife and child, asking for a divorce.  He has fallen in love with Manna Wu, a co-worker, but he remains faithful to his wife despite his never have loving her.<br />It is interesting to read about the trials that Kong and Wu endure as they are &quot;waiting&quot; for eighteen years for the divorce to go through.  It made for a better love-story and it helped the character development, even though it did move along somewhat slowly. <br />I did appreciate the wonderful language used, as well as the simple flow of the book.  Such a nice easy prose made for crisp reading and using a background of the political views of the China was also a nice touch, and it help to add meaning to the story.<br />The thing that I found most entertaining was the subtle humor peppered here and there.  You have to look for it, but it is there, and makes for a more pleasant reading experience.  Overall, this book was quite enjoyable.	2001-01-23
US	50245100	R3F5WC8T496JC6	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The &quot;Seinfeld&quot; Of Books	I loved this book, but when my wife asked me what it was about, I replied, &quot;Nothing.&quot;  And to me, that is what this wonderful book depicts.<br />Set in the rural town of Holt, Kent Haruf meshes together the stories of a recently separated high school teacher (Tom Guthrie), his hard-working pre-teenage sons (Ike and Bobby), a couple of old-time farmers (Harold and Raymond McPheron), a pregnant high school girl (Victoria Roubideaux, and the other high-shcool teacher that connects them all together (Maggie Jones).<br />This narrative story builds the character development quite nicely, and allows the reader to feel for the characters.  Haruf does a tremendous job of simply describing life (waking up for work, cleaning the house, making oatmeal cookies, etc.).  These simple smaller stories bring together all of the characters in one exceptional voice.<br />This book shows how people can adapt to their lives, and eventually redeem themselves.  This book is not about one story.  It reminds me of Seinfeld.  Everyday life instances captured in the written word, interweaved together.  It is fabulous and one terrific ride.<br />Haruf's language is very crisp and clear, and makes for a real nice and easy read.  He is very descriptive in his writing, including one scene involving a horse autopsy that I swear I could actually see it in front of me.<br />This was a wonderful book, and one that I would clearly recommend to anyone.  It deserves more than five stars.	2001-01-23
US	50245100	R33QNIUUHQKTGG	0878575103	655034938	Babies and Other Hazards of Sex: How to Make a Tiny Person in Only 9 Months, with Tools You Probably Have around the Home	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The King Of Comedy Rules Again	My wife got me this as a gift, and my only complaint is that my youngest is now eight, and I could have used this a long time ago.  Dave Barry hits the nail right on the head with this book.<br />In this book, Barry puts a very serious subject in a humorous tone, but he still speaks the truth.  Yes, this book is intended as humor, but his reasoning and descriptions are pretty dead on true.  I seriously could relate to a lot of the situations he described.  This book was hysterical.<br />Jerry O'Brien's illustrations are hilarious, and, as always, the perfect compliment to Barry's book.  For any new parents or expected parents, this book is definately for you.  Not only will this book not pull any punches, and tell it like it is, but it is very enjoyable reading, and will help ease some of the axieties that you may already have.  Yeah, it might add a few as well, but hey, at least you'll laugh so hard, you'll forget about labor pains.<br />Dave Barry is easily the king of comedy, and this short book even illustrates this even more.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-01-07
US	50245100	R4LD36X58LG69	0871138190	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Four Blondes With Attitude	I can't say that I am a fan of Candace Bushnell, but I did enjoy Sex in the City, so I was intrigued enough to read this book.  Seeing as how the first novel was so good, it was truly hard to follow, and unfortunately, this follow up wasn't all that great.<br />Four Blondes brings us the stories of four women.  The only one that I truly found mildly interesting was the first one involving Janey Wilcox, a former model who is constantly looking for a man to support her and take her to the Hamptons for the summer.  It was mildly humorous and she was, by far, the most interesting character of the four. <br />I can see how Bushnell was trying to continue with what worked for her in her other novel with the four main characters, but I honestly could have done without the other three.  In fact the last woman doesn't even have a name, and her story was so short, I felt as if this section was just put in to make the quota of four.<br />As always, her language and writing style was very crisp and clear.  The storylines were alright, considering the actual length of them.  However, the character development could have used some work.<br />On the whole, the book is not as bad as some of the other reviews on here, and I am hoping that Winnie Deike would approve of my on-line review (see the story on blonde #2 to get that joke).  Although it was a fairly entertaining read, Four Blondes did fall somewhat short of my expectations.	2001-01-03
US	50245100	R2KV54QR3NLYM1	0878577254	274258379	Dave Barry's Guide to Marriage and/or Sex	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Breaking Up Or Getting Engaged?	If you've made it to that chapter (Chapter 4) without laughing so hard you have beverages coming out of your nose, please check your pulse.  You may already be dead.<br />Anyone who has ever read a Dave Barry article can appreciate his incredibly dry wit and hilarious sense of humor.  Barry always seems to capture subjects that are serious, but manages to put a funny twist on them.  Not only does he nail the concept of marriage AND/OR sex in this book, but the illustrations by Jerry O'Brien are the perfect compliment.  The outrageous diagrams on &quot;How to French Kiss&quot; remind me of my life just last week, er, I mean high school.<br />This book is loaded with helpful tips for both men and women.  For instance, Barry feels that the best bet for a new bride on how to get along with her mother-in-law is drugs.  If only more people could read this book!<br />This book has something in it for everyone.  If you are about to get married, the chapter entitled &quot;How to Have a Perfect Wedding No Matter What&quot; will definately come in handy.  Of course, those of you already married, chapters &quot;How to Argue Like a Veteran Married Couple&quot; and &quot;Children: Big Mistake or Bad Idea?&quot; will, most definately, be of interest.<br />Barry's book is a fairly quick read, and would make a nice addition to anyone's book collection, if not for the mere fact that it is a great conversation piece.  Any fan of Dave Barry will love it, and if you live on another planet, and have never heard of him, this is a great book to start with.  You can't help but laugh!	2001-01-01
US	50245100	R1QBMBJPFOZZ9	0816728534	280391671	World's Strangest Hockey Stories (World's Strangest Sports Stories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Strange But True	Ever wonder how the term &quot;hat trick&quot; came about?  Ever hear about the Boston Bruins vs. Chicago Blackhawks game that was delayed an hour and a half because the luggage containing the Bruins' uniforms was accidentally sent to San Francisco?  How about the time an NHL game was called off because there was too thick a fog INSIDE of the arena?<br />These are just a few of the wacky stories that you will read about in this short book.  Any hockey fan will appreciate the short stories in this book.  Even if you are not a hockey fan but have a sense of humor and a pulse, you will enjoy this book.<br />Bart Rockwell did a masterful job of compiling the off-the-wall stories for this book.  The illustrations are well done and help make the flow of the book move along nicely.<br />For [the price], you can't beat this book.  It's quite funny, and it does have some historical facts that are bound to increase your knowledge of the sport.  Besides that, it's just loaded with weird hockey stories that will make you life of any party that Mario Lemieux attends.	2001-01-01
US	50245100	R3KTQBVKH5TB1Q	0060194804	57293859	The Terrible Hours: The Man Behind the Greatest Submarine Rescue in History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One Compelling Book	Wow!  That was my first reaction to this book after just a few pages.  This simply is one amazing story, and even more amazing considering the timeline of it.<br />Peter Maas recounts the remarkable story of the submarine, the USS Squalus, which sunk to the bottom of the North Atlantic in May of 1939.  Charles &quot;Swede&quot; Momsen, a U.S. Navy officer, and a revolutionary scientist, was summoned to rescue these men from their watery grave.<br />Maas vividly depicts the tense moments involved in this heroic rescue.  He uses a fast-paced language, peppered with an excellent combination of quotes and technological terms to create a very thrilling and riviting read.  I almost felt as if I was part of the rescue operation myself.<br />Although this book kept me interested in its suspenseful voyage, the technical terms could have probably been described in a slightly more reader-friendly manner.  I found myself a little confused at some times, but the overall flow of the book was still pretty smooth.<br />I enjoyed the epilogue quite a bit, as this small section is where the reader really gets to see the personal side of Momsen.   This book was truly excellent.  It was a pleasure to read.  I could not put it down.	2000-12-28
US	50245100	R16CLSDWWKNV2A	1892129884	739156738	Life of Reilly	Books	5	15	17	N	N	I Need More Swoosh	Anyone who even read the first few pages of the book would know what I am talking about in my review title.  For years, Rick Reilly has been making me laugh on the last page of Sports Illustrated.  Now, with this book, I get to relive some of those hilarious moments.<br />Rick Reilly is one of the best in the business.  His writing is funny, off-the-wall, witty, and always informative, even if his subject is not something you really want to be informed about.  He has a knack for making light of any subject, and he has written about almost everything imaginable.  <br />This book compiles his absolute best pieces, and they truly are masterful pieces of writing.  He uses a very candid language that allows the reader just to take his article in, usually laughing the whole way through.<br />The Life of Reilly is a perfect book for anyone who is a fan of the columnist, or even for those of you who are sports' fans.  This book will make you laugh out loud, as it truly is just pure non-stop enjoyment.  This book really is a &quot;can't miss.&quot;  Besides, anyone chosing Charles Barkley to write the introduction to his book has to be doing something write, er, right!	2000-12-21
US	50245100	RBXBEEW4IYC8X	0452278449	681699987	Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon	Books	3	11	13	N	N	At The &quot;Diner,&quot; I'll Order A Side Of Kevin &quot;Bacon&quot;	Yeah, so my title is somewhat cheesy, but at least it connected with one of his movies.  I'm sure that everyone has heard of the popular &quot;Kevin Bacon Game&quot; by now, so this book would be the perfect compliment to that game.<br />Unfortunately, if you are looking for anything more, you won't find it in this book.  It is nothing more than a list of characters linked to Kevin Bacon.  However, I must admit that I was impressed by the amount of effort and research that had to go into making this book.  But, then I wonder why.<br />Setting that aside, I accept it for what it is worth.  It is entertaining, and some of the photographs are quite good.  I particularly enjoyed the filmography section at the beginning of the book, but other than that, this book is simply a novelty item.  Take it from me, Chad Spivak, who attended a Miami Dolphins' football game with Dan Marino, who was in &quot;Ace Ventura, Pet Detective&quot; with Sean Young, who was in &quot;Fatal Instinct&quot; with Bob Uecker, who was in &quot;Major League&quot; with Charlie Sheen, who was in &quot;Young Guns&quot; with Kiefer Sutherland, who was in &quot;Flatliners&quot; with Kevin Bacon!	2000-12-21
US	50245100	RIS0L7RRNQOFR	1896232027	125056773	Something to Remember Me By: A Story About Love & Legacies	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Share This Book With Someone You Love	I bought this book for my mother-in-law, because having three daughters, this was the perfect gift for her.<br />This book presents the story of a grandmother and granddaughter over the years.  It is a wonderful story that celebrates the special connections and memories that span across generations.<br />This short book emphasizes the little things that truly matter most.  The illustrations are truly incredible, and extremely realistic.  This story is quite satisfying and will bring a tender joy to your heart.  Susan Bosak uses a poignant, candid language that allows the nice story to shine through.  It is just something that should be share with as many generations within your family as possible.  <br />This book should be required reading for all families.  It will inspire everyone to search for their own means of remembrance.  Something To Remember Me By will easily be remembered.	2000-12-19
US	50245100	R1YGWSHMYHEQ4V	1572434066	220457982	Britney...I Did It Again!	Books	4	6	9	N	N	My Kids Just Read It AGAIN!	I bought this book for my youngest daughter's birthday.  Yeah, okay that was good in theory, but in reality, all three of my daughters went nuts for this book.<br />I read the book with my youngest daughter when I first purchased the book, and I have to admit that the whole publication was put together quite nicely.  Not only are there some amazingly good photographs, but the actual writing is pretty good as well.<br />My youngest daughter really enjoyed the &quot;Fifty Fast Facts&quot; and the Britney Spears' Quiz Challange.  My older two appreciated the  &quot;Cyber Britney&quot; section, as they are just venturing onto the internet.  There were quite a few nice links to Britney Spears' related sites in this this section.<br />Overall, it was a fairly nice book loaded with tons of super pictures.  It is definately something that would make a nice holiday gift for any Britney Spears' fan.	2000-12-18
US	50245100	R2ZWTWWJS3MHK9	0609607804	48165624	I'm Next: The Strange Journey of America's  Most Unlikely Superhero	Books	4	2	3	N	N	GOLDBERG!  In His Own Words.	It's so refreshing to see a book like this actually writen by the person who the book is about.  I guess Mick Foley set the stage for this with his wonderful book, and Bill Goldberg followed suit.<br />I'm Next, to say the least, is very interesting.  It is not your typical tell-all from behind-the-scenes type of wrestling book.  In this book, you see the true Bill Goldberg shining through.  He doesn't pull any punches, and he is as straightforward as they come.<br />Goldberg uses a very candid language as if he is just talking to you in an everyday conversation.  This made the book read very fast.  The timeline was a little jumpy making the overall flow of the book slightly choppy, but in all, it is a very successful piece of work.<br />I liked the way he intertwined some of views of his family to giving other perspectives, and some of the quotes from other wrestlers peppered throughout the book were downright comical.  The photos added were perfect, giving the book a good overall quality.<br />It's obvious that there is more to Bill Goldberg than just wrestling.  His book allows this to come across to the reader.  It is one terrific ride.	2000-12-10
US	50245100	R2Q8ZPTIMUIQSA	078686401X	246180904	Titanic: An Illustrated History	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An Excellent Book	I bought this book for my daughter who is a history buff, and man, was I ever glad that I did.  Simply put, this just is an excellent book.<br />The illustrations by Ken Marschall are absolutely amazing.  Hands down, they are the best that I have ever seen in regards to the Titanic.  His use of color is so extraordinary that sometimes I seriously had to take a second look to make sure that it was not a photograph.<br />The writing is also quite good.  Don Lynch gives heroic voices to the crew of the ship, something that was missed in the smash hit movie.  His language is very candid, and it allows you to feel as if you are actually there experiencing the voyage.<br />This book is, by far, the most descriptive and informative recap of the story of the Titanic.  It is one magnificent journey and a terrific book.	2000-12-03
US	50245100	R267VK172L452G	0399146474	241175191	Bump and Run	Books	4	11	38	N	N	An Easy Touchdown	Mike Lupica is one of the best sports' journalists in the country.  His articles are informative and well written.  This novel is not far behind.<br />Bump and Run is a hilariously funny novel about &quot;Jammer&quot; Molloy taking over 50% ownership of his father's porfessional New York football team.  Having been the &quot;go-to-guy&quot; for a large, successful resort in Las Vegas, the NFL shouldn't be a problem, or at least, that's what one would think.<br />Lupica masterfully intertwines a multitude of interesting characters, each one with a seemingly more ridiculous name.  The writing is excellent, as always, and the storyline has a nice steady flow to it.  He meshes his characters with recognizable names from the NFL, which adds a really nice touch.  His language is so descriptive, and each scene is so detailed, that you sometimes forget that this is just a novel.<br />Above all, Bump and Run is quite funny.  Lupica uses his intellectual wit and dry sense of humor in making one fantastic book.  This novel is not just for sports' fans.  It's for anyone that really likes to read good books.  This book is a winner.	2000-11-23
US	50245100	R3M6JAMDU3RDE	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Life's Greatest Lesson, Indeed	I have read this book twice, and just now, I could finally put my feelings into words.  This book is wonderful.<br />Mitch Albom is a phenominal sports' writer, as his writing is very clear and cogent, always managing to get his point across in just a few paragraphs.  He is extremely talented.  This book shows off his talent.<br />Tuesdays With Morrie showcases Albom's long-lasting relationship with his old college professor, Morris Schwartz.  Stricken with a terminal disease, Schwartz eventually becomes bedridden, only to be visited by Albom each Tuesday.  In each visit, Albom embarks on a spiritual journey as he learns a great deal more about his mentor and friend.  More importantly, he learns about life.<br />This book forces you into thinking about your own life and loved ones.  It hits home, and teaches you about the simple things that truly matter most.  Albom uses a very straightforward language, and he presents Morrie's story with the utmost sincerity and humility.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  It was a moving experience. Tuesdays With Morrie is truly remarkable and a definate must for all fans of just good, honest writing.	2000-11-16
US	50245100	R19ARARLTQ37O4	0060394145	738913049	Mick Foley's Christmas Chaos	Books	5	13	13	N	N	This Book Is Sure To Let You &quot;Have A Nice Day&quot;	My kids loved this book.  Mick Foley has one amazing imagination and this book truly has it all.<br />I read Foley's first book, and it was sensational.  This is not too far behind.  Besides having one hilarious storyline, Mick Foley's Christmas Chaos sincerely brings home the true meaning of Christmas.  It is a soon-to-be modern Christmas classic that flows so nicely.<br />I had absolutely no idea that Jerry &quot;The King&quot; Lawler was such a talented artist, and his illustrations definately add to the book's overall good feel.  The characatures are so well done and add lots of tremendous color to a book already rich in a colorful plot.<br />This book is an excellent read, and a nice new book for the holiday season.  Mick Foley's Christmas Chaos is a &quot;can't miss&quot; for any families with children.....and that's the bottom line!	2000-11-15
US	50245100	R3OFRYAJ1OH982	0060393785	438614218	CAN YOU TAKE THE HEAT?: The WWF Is Cooking!	Books	5	24	27	N	N	These Recipes Are That D@mn Good	Yes, Triple H himself would have to agree with that statement.  Okay, so I am a fan of the WWF, and I was going to buy the book anyway, but I love to cook as well.  This book was a really nice surprise.<br />Jim Ross looks like he likes to eat, so why wouldn't his cookbook be excellent.  Not only is is loaded with lots of good photographs, but the recipes are dynamite.  So far, I have made the Rock's chocolate chip cookies, and the APA's beer bread (man, was that tasty).  I really enjoyed the little descriptions written by Jim Ross for each one as well.  Some of them are quite funny.<br />All in all, this recipe book seems to be a real winner, but then again, anything related with Vince McMahon and the WWF seems to be gold, at least as of late.  This cook book would be a nice addition to any at-home chef's collection, and would easily make a nice conversation piece at your next party.  <br />P.S. - I can't wait to try the Big Boss Man's &quot;Pepper Steak.&quot;  Just don't invite Al Snow over for dinner!	2000-11-06
US	50245100	RI99M40XZW3JU	1558535527	570703259	Alex: The Life of a Child	Books	5	13	14	N	N	&quot;Cut From the Stars,&quot; This Book is Wonderful	I first learned about Alex Deford in the ABC made-for-tv movie, and was immediately touched.  Having always been a fan of Frank Deford's sports writing, I knew this book could be nothing less than sensational.  And I was correct.<br />Alex Deford was a strong little girl that was stricken with a terrible disease, and eventually taken from this earth way too early.  In this book, Deford recalls her inspiring story, as well as giving us a look into his own life.  He is straightforward and ultimately candid about the trials and pains that young Alex had to endure.  Through her remarkable story, we learn a great deal about her, and it forces us to look upon each of our own inner strengths.<br />The book flows really well, and Deford does an incredible job of mingling his own story into Alex's.  I really enjoyed the way he included other children's letters and personal thoughts, and not correcting their spelling was a great touch. <br />This book was a joy to read.  I thank Mr. Deford for opening my eyes to this horrible disease, and just allowing me to get to know Alex Deford and what she was all about.  It was a true pleasure, and I urge all of you to please read this wonderful book.	2000-10-31
US	50245100	R2729XWA3KVY0	0316925810	55821494	Diamond Dogs: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Real Gem of a Novel	I found this book in the &quot;Staff Selections&quot; section at my bookstore.  I was nicely suprised.<br />This novel tells a rather interesting story.  Neil, the high school football quarterback, runs over Ian while driving home under the influence of alcohol.  Panicking, he stuffs Ian's body in the trunk, only to have his father, the town sheriff, move it and hide it without telling him.  The story really takes off from there.  Throw in a father and son conflict, the FBI, and sexual tones here and there, and you have a pretty decent novel.<br />The character development could have been a little better, and I felt that the story ended a little abruptly, but overall, it was a good book.  There were quite a few twists and turns that kept me guessing, which made for a fairly quick and enjoyable read.  <br />In his first novel, Alan Watt put together a nice cohesive plot, and an interesting conflict of interest.  Diamond Dogs was a lot of fun.	2000-10-17
US	50245100	R11A2AH9S5UJVD	0785270213	174214118	Undefeated: How Father And Son Triumphed Over Unbelievable Odds Both On And Off The Field	Books	4	7	7	N	N	These Gentlemen Can't Be Beaten.....Literally	Suprisingly, this book is not just for football fans.  It has a little bit of something for everybody.<br />The book is written in a very unusual format.  It was as if both Bob and Brian Griese were just sitting around talking, discussing many different things, and voila, we have a book.  It is written so matter-of-factly, that it becomes a page-turner rather quickly.<br />The book parallels the two quarterbacks, in their careers, family life, and personal triumphs and tragedies.  Dealing with football was only a part of the book.  You really get a good feel for these two men when they talk about a myriad of subjects and events,  and you can't help but let your heart go out to them when they reflect upon Judi Griese, respected wife and mother. <br />The book's compelling language is peppered with humor rather nicely, and the overall tone of the book is quite inspirational.  I truly enjoyed this book, and it sincerely kept my interest throughout.  Undefeated is a real winner.	2000-10-02
US	50245100	R1Y41JL2UNUPL4	0395981328	714615069	The Obituary Writer	Books	4	5	6	N	N	To Have Killed Or Not To Have Killed, That Is The Question	Did Alicia do it?  That's the question that will be haunting me for a while.  The Obituary Writer left me up in the air, and in all honesty,  that's the only way this book should have left me.  The ending is truly  remarkable.<br />Gordie Hatch is a young obituary writer for a newspaper.  He  seems to be stuck at his position, and his father being an ace reporter who  covered the JFK assasination always seems to be looming in the background.   One day, Alicia Whiting calls after her husband's death, claiming that  there is a good feature story in the making.  Gordie is thrown into  Alicia's life, and the twists and turns are plentiful from there.<br />What I  liked most is the several different storylines within the one main plot.   The substories are all interesting and they are all tied in quite nicely at  the end.  There were several points in the book where I thought that I knew  what was going to happen next, but the novel never seemed to go the way I  was thinking.<br />Overall this was a really quick read with a very subtle  language peppered with humor quite well.  I sincerely recommend this book  for the mere fact that Gordie Hatch is definately one of the most  interesting characters you will read about in a long time.  This book will  not disappoint.	2000-09-20
US	50245100	R1QKKL2ACUJZ7Z	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	This Book Is Good, and That's the 'Hole' Truth	I read this book together with my nine year-old daughter, and I must say that it is one truly amazing book.  We both enjoyed it very much.<br />Holes  is the story of Stanley Yelnats, a young boy sent to a work camp for  stealing shoes from a homeless shelter.  This camp has no fences, as it is  the only known place with water within several miles.  Every day, Stanley  and the rest of the camp has to dig holes exactly five feet wide and five  feet deep.<br />Stanley matures quite a bit while at the camp, and he develops  friendships with several of the other boys.  The comradery built is  remarkable and the overall story makes for really entertaining reading.   <br />Throughout the book, there are several flashbacks to Camp Green Lake 110  years ago.  The reader gets a glimpse at Stanley's heritage, as well as the  story behind the curse of his  &quot;no-good-dirty-rotten-pig-stealing-great-grandfather.&quot;<br />Overall,  it is an excellent book.  Louis Sachar does a superb job of &quot;filling  in the holes,&quot; and ties everything up together.  Each flashback has a  distinct purpose, making for a very cogent storyline.  The plot twists are  plentiful, which allows the book to leave a nice lasting impression.  Holes  is a must read for families with young children.	2000-09-19
US	50245100	R3P8O11IE1MTG2	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Empire Strikes Back	Okay, so my title is a cheap attempt at bringing over Star Wars' fanatics, but anyone reading the Harry Potter series has to notice some similarities.  But, enough about that.  Book four is here, and once again, my three girls  went into a deep state of Pottermania, and there is no vaccine for that.  I've checked.  My whole family enjoys reading the series, as it truly is  great family entertainment.<br />Once again, we find Harry at the his aunt and  uncle's home, but this time, he is picked up by the Weasleys, and taken to  the Quidditch World Cup, the Super Bowl of the wizard world.  After the  match, the dark mark of Lord Voldermont is seen in the sky, and wizards  panic everywhere.<br />Back at Hogwarts, Harry is mysteriously entered into  the Triwizard Tournament, and he is suddenly forced to compete in highly  dangerous tasks for the honor of his school.  The action throughout the  book is quite intense, and the excellent writing makes it really difficult  to put it down.  I turned pages so quickly that I didn't even notice the  737 pages.<br />All of the regulars are back, and some interesting new ones  are added in quite nicely.  In the Goblet of Fire, we finally meet  Voldermont face to face, as he tries once again to bring Harry to an  untimely death.  Slowly, Voldermont is gathering up his supporters, setting  up the upcomming fifth book quite nicely.  The classic conflict of good vs.  evil is sensationally defined, and it will be quite interesting to see  where certain characters eventually side.<br />This novel has something for  everybody, as the suspense is incredible as usual.  The Goblet of Fire is,  by far, the darkest book of the series so far, as it deals with difficult  topics like cheating and death, but J. K. Rowling weaves it together so  well, you can't help but enjoy this book.  This well written book is a must  read for any household that has children in it.  It won't let you down.  Pottermania is everywhere.	2000-09-05
US	50245100	R1HJ196OLO93GK	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A &quot;Sirius&quot;ly Good Book	My daughters absolutely love the Harry Potter books, and I can't help but  agree with them.  These books are enjoyed by all five of the people in my  household, with ages ranging from 9 to 30.  Simply put, this is one really  well written book.<br />Just like the first two books in the series, this one  starts out with Harry spending the summer at the Dursley's home.  But, it  is only a matter of time before Harry gets back to his wizardry school  called Hogwarts.  This time, there is an escaped convict named Sirius  Black, who is believed to be after Harry.  The action is intense, and the  twists and turns are plentiful.  This third book keeps you in the dark for  most of the story.  It is extremely difficult to predict the ending, and  just when you think that you know how it is going to end, the plot turns in  another direction.<br />All of the regular characters are back, and a couple  new ones are introduced and developed rather nicely.  In this novel, we see  a little more light shed on the deaths of Harry's parents, which makes for  really interesting reading.<br />Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban has  a little bit of everything in it.  The thrilling mystery is excellent and  suspenseful as usual, and the excitement wrapped around the tournament for  the Quidditch Cup is absolutely sensational.  It felt as if I was right  there in the pitch.  The classic conflict of good vs. evil is never better  defined, making for an all-around enjoyable read.  This is one entertaining  book, and a must read for all households with children.	2000-09-05
US	50245100	R3KILO9RUY34IV	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I'm &quot;Sirius&quot; - This Is A Great Book	My daughters absolutely love the Harry Potter books, and I can't help but agree with them.  These books are enjoyed by all five of the people in my household, with ages ranging from 9 to 30.  Simply put, this is one really  well written book.<br />Just like the first two books in the series, this one  starts out with Harry spending the summer at the Dursley's home.  But, it's  only a matter of time before Harry gets back to his wizardry school called  Hogwarts.  This time, there is an escaped convict named Sirius Black, who  is said to be after Harry.  The action is intense, and the twists and turns  are plentiful.  This third book keeps you in the dark for most of the book.   It is extremely difficult to predict the ending, and just when you think  you know how it is going to end, the book turns in another direction.<br />All  of the regular characters are back, and a couple more are introduced and  developed rather nicely.  In this novel, we have a little more light shed  on the deaths of Harry's parents, which makes for really interesting  reading.<br />Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban has a little bit of  everything in it.  The thrilling mystery is excellent and suspenseful as  usual, and the excitement wrapped around the tournament for the Quidditch  Cup is absolutely sensational.  It felt as if I was right there in the  pitch.  The classic conflict of good vs. evil is never better defined,  making for an all-around enjoyable read.  This is one entertaining book,  and a must read for all households with children.	2000-08-21
US	50245100	R1SXIHUB79UC6N	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Great Story - Another Excellent Book	The Harry Potter series will be around for a long time.  This second book continues the page-turning trend started in The Sorcerer's Stone.<br />This  second book continues the developement of the mysterious Harry Potter.  Beginning back at the home of the Dursley's, his only living family, Harry  is paid a visit from a house elf named Dobby.  Dobby informs Harry that he  is in grave danger, and he should not return for his second year at the  wizardry school named Hogwarts.  From here, the story takes many twists and  turns, and it always seems as if the odds are constantly stacked against  Harry.<br />The Chamber of Secrets has been opened for the first time in fifty  years.  The last time it was opened, a young girl was murdered at the  school.  Now, another creature is wandering the halls of the school,  turning the students into stone.  By the time the book is reaching its  climax, nearly everyone is a suspect, making for an amazingly interesting  plot.<br />All of Harry's old friends and, of course, his enemies are back for  the second year at the school.  The storyline is outright amazing, loaded  with lots of mystery and suspense.  Once again, J.K. Rowling put together  one well written book, and the ending is definately one of the most intense  scenes in all of the Harry Potter books.  This is an excellent novel and  one that can be enjoyed by readers of all ages.  It's one thrilling novel.	2000-08-19
US	50245100	RD7BJS1IDO5M0	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Just Not Enough Seasoning	Anthony Bourdain definately could have used an editor in completing this book.  I was surprised by the typos, and overall organization of the  book.<br />Kitchen Confidential is not a tell-all book about the  behind-closed-kitchen-doors business, but more of a personal life story  about the author.  In the book, we find out about his raw oyster-eating  youth, and his dabbling with drugs later on.  He did lead an interesting  life, and his climb to his prestigious status as a top chef is well  documented.  But, there is very little else.<br />He uses a lot of cooking  terms that I truly didn't understand, and he doesn't define these until you  are almost at the end of the book.  I was mildly pleased with his not  holding anything back, as he tells it like he sees it, but the language was  either too descriptive or not detailed enough in their respective parts.  I  made it to the end of the book simply because I wanted to see what the  seemingly arrogant Mr. Bourdain was going to do next.<br />In all honesty, it  was a wild ride of a story, but better structure and the help of an editor  would have made it a much nicer read.	2000-08-15
US	50245100	R2P4FNV0YW9OGY	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Teachings Of Life	I read this book on the recommendation of a friend.  After reading The  Alchemist, I was left wanting more.<br />The book introduces us to a boy who  is a shepherd, but always appears to smarter than your average person.  He  sets out to find his &quot;treasure&quot; at the Pyramids in Egypt at the  advice of a fortune teller.  Along the way, he encounters many different  types of people as well as several difficult obstacles, and he learns a  great deal from an old alchemist that he meets at an oasis.<br />In searching  for his &quot;treasure,&quot; he embarks on his own &quot;Personal  Legend.&quot;  He staggers upon wealth a couple of times, and he meets  Fatima, the woman of his dreams and his apparent soul mate, only to leave  her in search of his &quot;treasure.&quot;  This book portrays many of  life's lessons, and speaks of one all-knowing universal language.  The book  teaches as it moves along.<br />While the overall background of the book dealt  with his search for his &quot;treasure&quot; and places a high regard on  material wealth, it teaches you to believe in yourself and never give up.   The shepherd became wealthy in wisdom way before he becomes rich.<br />The  book was well written, and has a nice flow, almost as if it has poetic  tones to it.  It is loaded with nice descriptive and philosophical language  that makes for a quick read.  The ending is satisfying, although I would  have truly liked to see what happened next.	2000-08-13
US	50245100	R14WC3ZB8SC1VE	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Thrilling Book That Should Be A Classic	I'll be the first to admit that I am extremely late in joining the Harry Potter craze.  My youngest daughter wanted to read it, so we read it  together, and was I ever pleasantly surprised!<br />This book introduces us to  the mysterious Harry Potter.  He lives a somewhat normal and incredibly  dull life with his aunt and uncle for eleven years, until he receives a  letter from a wizardry school named Hogwarts.  With some help from his new  found friend, Hagrid, he learns that he is not so normal after all.  He is,  by heritage, a wizard, and he just happens to be famous.<br />This first book  introduces us to many different and interesting characters, and sets Harry  up with two really good friends in Ron and Hermione.  Harry Potter and the  Sorcerer's Stone allows every reader's imagination to run wild, as the  descriptive scenes make for nice, fast reading.<br />J. K. Rowling put  together a true masterpiece in this book.  Not only did it set the stage  for the following books, but it allowed the reader to feel like he was  right there within the story.  This is one well written book, as it has a  little bit of everything: a myriad of well-developed characters, mystery,  suspense, conflict of good vs. evil, and an amazing ending that I  personally didn't see coming.  This was a truly good book and a pleasure to  read.  This book should be enjoyed by readers of all ages.	2000-08-13
US	50245100	R3UUK9E2TUOM4K	0062517171	728123843	All Things Possible: MY STORY OF FAITH, FOOTBALL AND THE MIRACLE SEASON	Books	5	27	28	N	N	This Story Has The Things That Dreams Are Made Of	After reading this book, I truly do believe that all things are possible.   Kurt Warner has a truly remarkable story to tell.<br />In All Things Possible,  I knew the final outcome.  Unless you live in a cave, eveyone knew that  Kurt Warner had a super season, capped off with a Super Bowl victory,  picking up the game's MVP award.  However, this book did more than go  behind the scenes of that incredible season.  It introduced us to Kurt  Warner, the person.<br />He has had one incredible life.  In this book, he  touches upon everything, from his personal life struggles to being cut by  the Green Bay Packers and having to work at a supermarket.  We also meet  his family, including his wonderful wife, Brenda.  His story is one of  overcomming seemingly unbeatable odds.  Warner was constantly having to  battle serious problems that always seemed to be hurled at him at the most  difficult times.  He never gave up, and his faith in the higher power is  one that should not be taken lightly.<br />In this book, Warner is incredibly  candid and does not hold anything back.  He is straightforward and always  honest.  He hides nothing, and that is what truly makes this book an  inspirational and enjoyable read.  The personal stories add feeling and  sometimes humor to the wonderfully written account of him and his family.   <br />All Things Possible has something for everybody, including a nice  romance in the background.  His marriage proposal still brings a smile to  my face.  Kurt Warner tells his interesting story in a straightforward, yet  nicely detailed language that allows you to keep turning pages as fast as  he racks up passing yards.  This book is more than just another athlete's  story.  It serves as an inspiration to keep pursuing your dream, whatever  that may be, by believing in yourself.  Any, if not all, things are  possible.	2000-08-12
US	50245100	R9GR1RJ2346HJ	1572433604	871678152	The Best Of Frank Deford	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Intelligence Personified	Frank Deford is a brilliant writer, not to mention, probably the single  greatest sports' writer on the planet.  He just takes sports' writing to a  higher level.  The Best of Frank Deford will prove this.<br />This book  showcases some of Deford's best work as a journalist.  Although some of the  articles are a little dated, his style and amazing use of language still  shines.  The pieces included in this book are easily some of the best  writng available.  Any inspiring journalist could learn a great deal from  this collection of writings.<br />Deford never holds anything back, and he is  never afraid to speak his mind.  I personally enjoyed the in-depth look at  Bobby Knight.  But, there are many other treasures in this candid  book.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book and quite a fast read.  Deford's  witty and extremely articulate writing style allows you to flow right  through the book.  This is a masterpiece of writing, and a true pleasure  for any sports' fan.  The Best of Frank Deford is simply the best.	2000-08-09
US	50245100	R36GSJCPLF1AR5	0553279378	146946583	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Truly Remarkable Reading	I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings is easily one of the most passionate books  ever written.  Maya Angelou did an amazing job of telling the early years  of her life story.  This is just the first book that depicts her  autobigraphy.<br />The language in this book is so nicely detailed and the  words just mesh together so well, it's hard not to enjoy reading this book.   Maya Angelou describes her early life and the troubles she had as an  African American woman growing up in the 1940s.  <br />She had an amazing life  and her stories can teach us all a thing or two.  I almost cheered out loud  when she stood up for herself to get her first job.  She describes her  personal stories with such compassion and mixes in some humor to allow the  book's flow to be smooth.  <br />Maya Angelou is a remarkable woman with an  incredible story to tell, no matter how shocking some of it really is.  I  Know Why the Caged Bird Sings is a great starting point.  This book is an  excellent, pleasurable read.	2000-08-08
US	50245100	RFE4AKWK83H8P	1566396360	472113938	Jim Bunning (Baseball In America)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A No-Hitter, But Not a Perfect Game	My name is Chad, and I'm a Philadelphia Phillies' fan.  Yes, that's  correct.  I'm the one.<br />Having followed the Phillies my entire life, I was  already a fairly big Jim Bunning fan.  So, I went into reading this book  slightly biased.  Unfortunately, the book leaves a bit to be desired as far  as a biography goes.  I would say it's more of a baseball memoir.<br />There  was very little about his private life, and his childhood and early life  was practically skipped.  However, the professional baseball chapters were,  by far, the best.  Bunning has an incredible knowledge of the game of  baseball, and he was one of the smartest pitchers in the history of  baseball.  His hard work ethic could not be matched, and he truly did a lot  for the game.<br />His pitching days are nicely summed up in the book.  I was  captivated by his recounting of the perfect game against the New York Mets.   In all of the baseball chapters, the detail was phenominal.  I could  almost feel myself being at the game in person.  The personal stories (i.e.  - Ted Williams' 3 strikeouts)were nicely mixed in.<br />His minor league  managerial career is also nicely documented, and I liked getting a  behind-the-scenes look at what goes on in a professional baseball  organization.  I was amazed at the amount of politics involved in the front  office.<br />I realize that the chapters on his politcal career had to be  included, but they seemed a little long winded.  There also seemed to be  too much of a do-or-die situation involved every single time he ran for  office.  It was made out to be more dramatic than it probably was.  In all  honesty, the end of the book (the politics) got quite dry and I had some  trouble staying completely interested like I was with the exciting baseball  sections.<br />Overall, Jim Bunning's book is a pretty decent read.  The flow  for the first 3-quarters of the book is really smooth, and fairly exciting.   The personal stories peppered throughout the book keeps you wanting to  read on.  It is a must for any fan of the game of baseball.	2000-08-07
US	50245100	R1JRTOMPX9F21V	0060194790	617082594	Waiting : The True Confessions of a Waitress	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Want A Tip?  Read This Book!	I was truly suprised by this book.  Working in the customer relations  industry now, I can truly relate to Debra Ginsberg's incredibly accurate  depictions of the the public customer.<br />This book was an incredibly fast  read, as Ginsberg's candidly witty writing style jumps out at you and  brings you right into the stories with her.  Sometimes, I could clearly see  myself sitting at one of the tables in her restaurant, just taking in the  scene (I hope I wasn't at &quot;Table 50&quot;).<br />The book chronologically  takes you through her career as a waitress.  Through her wonderful stories,  you get to see her develop as a waitress, and more importantly, mature as a  person.  Over her twenty-year span of waitressing, you get to live through  her struggles, financial woes, and life awakenings.  It is one truly  remarkable ride.  <br />In essence, Waiting is a nice readable memior that  hits close to home to everybody on a certain level.  It is extremely well  written, and the humorous, colorful tones make the flow incredibly smooth.   This book is worth reading for the mere fact that it will open your eyes  and make you reflect upon your own attitudes when it comes to dining out.   Ginsberg wrote a cogent book about a life story that was a real pleasure to  read.  Waiting will not disappoint.	2000-08-05
US	50245100	R2WC9BB16V7WS2	1573225789	991280088	The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother	Books	5	54	60	N	N	Inspirational Reading	I just finished reading it for the second time (first time was when it was a new release), and I still can't get over how much this book touched me.   This book is one incredibly moving memoir.<br />The Color of Water is a black  man's tribute to his white Jewish mother.  I really enjoyed hearing Ruth  McBride Jordan's amazing story.  Through the telling of her life, we learn  a great deal about the the author, James McBride, as well.<br />We read  through Ruth's story, feeling her anguish in hard times.  We fight with her  to put twelve children through college, and we  lend our hearts out to her  in hopes of easing her job of instilling proper values in her children.   McBride did an excellent job of bringing the reader directly into this  unforgettable story, allowing us to feel the emotion.<br />The book's format  was quite interesting as well, alternating chapters from the mother's point  of view to that of his.  The Color of Water was just an all-around well  written book, and a joy to read.  Please read this powerful, uplifting  memoir.  You'll enjoy it.	2000-08-05
US	50245100	R2VFFT8TANDT5E	0517799529	807423839	Dave Barry's Gift Guide To End All Gift Guides	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Perfect Gift	Ever want an &quot;Auto Security Spider,&quot; the cheap alternative to &quot;The Club?&quot;  How about a game of &quot;Roadkill Bingo&quot; for  the kids?  Perhaps a &quot;High-Tech Loudspeaker Hat&quot; for your loved  one who has it all?  These are just a few of the items listed and described  in detail in this wacky book.<br />Dave Barry is one of the funniest writes of  all time, but he is usually at his best when it comes to him poking fun at  the truth.  This book, slightly dated written in 1994, is a virtual  catalogue of items that you can actually purchase.  Trust me.  These gifts  are better given than received.<br />It's a really fast read, and Dave Barry  is truly at his best.  It 's just non-stop laughter, and there are some  decent gift ideas in the book.  If fact, Dave Barry's Gift Guide to End All  Gift Guides would make a pretty nice gift itself.	2000-08-05
US	50245100	R16RIVY5XZWZI3	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	5	12	N	N	This Book Is S-A-T-I-S-F-A-C-T-O-R-Y, Satisfactory	Bee Season is a pretty good first novel for Myla Goldberg.  As a husband and father, the book definately made me think about family life. <br />Underachieving fifth-grade student, Eliza Naumann, wins her school  speeling, um, that's spelling, bee, and the book takes off from there.   Eventually, little Elly makes it to the National Spelling Bee, taking her  father, Saul, along with her for the ride.  Up to this point, he hadn't  really taken a big interest in her life, but now, he devotes all of his  time to her, and pretty much, only her.  Things go from bad to worse for  the family, as her brother, Aaron, gives up on Judaism to become a Hare  Krishna, and the mother, Miriam, completely falls apart (Actually, you have  to read it to truly see how far she falls).<br />The book moves along really  fast, and flows so nicely at the beginning.  The language is good, and the  humor, although quite subtle, is mixed in rather well.  The characters  probably could have used a little more development, though.  In all  honesty, the book dragged on slightly at the end, as the story became  fairly dry.  The ending is unexpected to the reader, but, in hindsight, it  seems pretty obvious to me that Goldberg wrote the novel with that ending  in mind from the very start.<br />Overall, I thought it was a decent novel,  and one worth reading, as it dealt with many topical issues that could  happen to almost anyone.  Goldberg easily left the door open for a sequel.	2000-07-28
US	50245100	R1ROTZ85QU9IM5	0786885394	313608855	Outtakes: Dan Patrick (ESPN Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply En Fuego	Dan Patrick exemplifies outstanding sports reporting.  In Outtakes, he engages his dry sense of humor and mixes it together with his extraordinary knowledge of the sports world.  Outtakes is a candid collection of  interviews with sports' celebrities of past and present.  He is not afraid  to ask the questions that everyone truly wants to ask, and the word  associations are outright hysterical.  Patrick is one of the wittiest  people on the face of the earth.  Outtakes just shines with this.  The book  is an easy read, and has a good, steady flow to it.  It is one entertaining  ride into the insightful mind of Dan Patrick, sports' guru.  Just hold on,  because the laughs come hard and fast.	2000-07-28
US	50245100	R1MY4Z17S8S0A3	068481403X	558731137	The Defense Is Ready: Life In The Trenches Of Criminal Law	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Dull But Intelligent	I have always liked the way that Leslie Abramson handles herself as well as being a fairly big fan of her courtroom practices.  So, I went into this book with some preconceived biases.  Well, they were all proven  wrong.<br />Abramson is an extremely intelligent woman, and an excellent  attorney, but her writing, as well as that of Richard Flaste, is quite dry  and rather boring.  She has some nice stories to tell, but the manner in  which she delivers them is undeniably dull.<br />The book clearly had no  cogent flow to it whatsoever.  The book was somewhat hard to get through,  but I read on, hoping it lead to something better.  But, it truly  didn't.<br />I gave the book two stars simply because the information on the  cases, and the behind the scenes stuff was pretty interesting.   Unfortunately, that is all this book really has to offer you.	2000-07-28
US	50245100	R3A3D0VBUS1YZB	0553073273	81931578	Star Wars: Heir To The Empire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Wonderful Star Wars Continuation	This book is the first novel in Timothy Zahn's trilogy.  This excellently written book takes place five years after Return of the Jedi, and is the authorized continuation to the original trilogy.<br />In this first book in  the series, we are introduced to Grand Admiral Thrawn, the sole surviving  member of the Emperor's vicious staff.  He has resumed control over the  Imperial Starfleet as he prepares for a suprise attack on the New Republic.   Thrawn is a supreme villian.  He exemplifies patience, tenacity, and  extreme poise in all of the story's crucial situations.<br />In his campaign  for domination, he employs the powers of a long-lost dark Jedi Knight,  which later leads to several conflicts.  All of the original characters are  back in Heir to the Empire, as well as some interesting new ones.<br />Zahn  writes with incredible detail that makes for a descriptive plot.  He  develops the storyline and teases you just enough to make you want to read  the next book in the trilogy.  <br />This book is action-packed and Zahn mixes  the characters together nicely.  He cohesively loads the book with mystery  and suspense, and the character development is fabulous.<br />The underlying  conflict of good vs. evil is interesting because it is hard to tell who is  good and who is evil.  All in all, this was a nice, easy-flowing book and  an entertaining read.  You will enjoy it.	2000-07-22
US	50245100	RUUEDNX9DRXD1	0060929804	146114302	Native Son	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A Really Good Read	Native Son is an excellent book that is quite deep on many levels.  Richard Wright does an incredibly nice job of developing his main character, Bigger Thomas.<br />Bigger is a twenty year-old poor black man  hired by a wealthy white family, and then accidentally kills the prominent  young daughter out of fear.  In covering up her death, he allows his  emotions to get the better of him, and he rapes and kills another  girl.<br />The first two sections of the book are loaded with intrigue,  suspense, and drama, as the reader is right there with Bigger as he tries  to mislead the murder investigation, and then runs from the large angry  masses once his cover-up is foiled.  The third section allows you to get  into Bigger's mind and feel his confused emotions.  Here, the reader is  treated to Wright's views on society mainly through the voice of Bigger's  trial attorney.<br />The language in the book is easy-flowing, and not  terribly descriptive, which was done intentionally, so the reader could  read between the lines and make clear assumptions.  All in all, the novel  was quite entertaining and rather eye-opening.	2000-07-13
US	50245100	RW1D0WHK8LXXR	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	125	142	N	N	Truly Inspirational - A Must Read For All	I had and beat testicular cancer just like Lance Armstrong, so I could truly relate to the incredible obstacles that he described in his amazing book.<br />This sincerely is an amazing story.  I just wish I could have read  it when I was going through my intense radiation treatments in my recovery,  because I feel it would have made things easier for me.  In his book,  Armstong brings this disease  into the public view, and allows people to  see that it truly doesn't have to be a part of death, but, in fact, a part  of life. <br />There are many stories within the book.  His childhood, his  attitudes towards his father figures, his early racing career, his battle  with cancer, the stuggle to get back on top of his game, his love life,  and, his extemely personal march towards fatherhood.  Each and every one of  these minor stories gives an overall inspirational journey into Lance  Armstrong's remarkable life.<br />The writing is nicely detailed and allows  for a good, easy-flowing read.  The racing-scenes are action-packed, and  make you feel as if you are right there on the bike with him.  Armstong  tells his tale using candid language and relates his stories of life with  honesty and a pure heart.  This book is a true inspiration to anyone.   Please read this book.  You cannot go wrong.	2000-07-02
US	50245100	R4IP8ZK5AYEHY	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Pretty Good Segway	Shadows of the Empire is set between The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi.  Steve Perry does a really nice job of incorporating your favorite Star Wars characters along with some new ones.  The action is  quite intense throughout the entire book, and the new approaches to the  Star Wars saga make for good reading.<br />Prince Xixor and the Black Sun  Organization were incredible additions and were used nicely in the  storyline.  I would have liked to see a little bit less of the typical good  vs. evil.  The Star Wars movies and most of the other books always have  characters that can side either way.  Here, there really wasn't any of  that.<br />The storyline and all of the characters were well-developed and the  plot seemed to have the usual twists and turns, loaded with action and  adventure, leading up to a nice enjoyable ending.  The writing style was  was not overly descriptive and had a nice flow, making it an easy read.   All in all, the novel was pretty adequate and fun to read.	2000-06-12
US	50245100	R3E3WMCA5B5VUE	0967992206	821941635	Positively Page: The Diamond Dallas Page Journey	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good Book.....Positively	I'll be the first to admit that I always like Diamond Dallad Page, mostly because of his extremely hard work ethic, so I bought the book with great expectations.  Fortunately, it pretty much lived up to them.  <br />To be  honest, I actually enjoyed the first part of his book (the section on his  night club managing days) more than the wrestling years section.  Page  constantly had to overcome adversity, and he relays this throughout the  entire book.<br />The writing has a really nice flow to it, and I like the  different fonts for each respective speaker.  Sometimes, this got a little  confusing, but overall, it was used quite nicely.  I like the fact that  there was a lot of depth to his stories, and he refered back to certain  ones throughout the book, when it was needed.<br />In the wrestling section,  he probably could have used more detail the strategy involved in planning  out the matches and feuds, but, overall, it was a very entertaining book,  and a pretty good read.  You'll have fun reading Diamond Dallas Page's  &quot;yo-yo&quot; story.	2000-06-10
US	50245100	RA1XATO52BW5H	0399141928	435088297	Naked Came the Manatee	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One Funny Baker's Dozen	Last time I laughed this hard about a booger, I was six.  Naked Came the Manatee centers around a human-like manatee named Booger.  Throw in thirteen accomplished authors, and you have a mystery-thriller like no  other.<br />Dave Barry wrote the first chapter, and then each author continued  with a respective one, making for a fairly interesting storyline.  Each  author added his or her own characters, but still managed to fit in the  ones from the previous chapters.<br />Yes, there are some holes, and yes, I'm  sure it was extremely difficult to follow the previous author's lead, but  the book still had a fairly nice flow to it.  The wacky plot, coupled with  the Florida setting makes the well-written book a real pleasure to read.	2000-06-04
US	50245100	RHXIBFJHFC7H3	0679721819	255129502	Mama Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Old-Fashioned Modern-Day Romance	If my review title doesn't intrigue you, I don't know what will.  Mama day is an amazing love story, but on a different level than most.  Gloria Naylor uses her normally powerful language to create a rich storyline that  will captivate the readers.<br />In Mama Day, she combines love, magic,  superstition, and sacrifice all into one cohesive plot loaded with strong,  well-developed, distinct characters.  She brings modern day ideas to the  traditional residents of the island of Willow Springs, which makes for  interesting reading.<br />This book brings together many extraordinary beliefs  and instills the factors involved in having good stong family values.  Mama  Day is a wonderfully written book, mainly because you bond with the  incredible characters all the way through to the amazing climax.  You  cannot go wrong with Gloria Naylor's Mama Day.	2000-06-03
US	50245100	R321BC9ZA2XT3A	0878339582	880586486	First & Goal	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Touchdown!	Hey, if Dan Marino was at first and goal, wouldn't a touchdown be sure to follow.  My kids loved this book.  It was extremely entertaining, and they thought the pictures were awesome.  First &amp; Goal is a different type of  children's sports book in that, instead of just being a synopsis of his  fine career, it teaches a more underlying lesson of giving it (anything)  your all.  The writing is quite good in that a nice, easy, descriptive  language is used, making it entertaining for children of all ages.  This is  a good book, and you children are sure to love as much as mine did.	2000-06-03
US	50245100	R15KD6GUCK2E6G	0671009184	916021328	The Big Show: Inside ESPN's Sportscenter	Books	4	6	7	N	N	En Fuego Doesn't Start With 'N'	You'll have to read the book to truly appreciate the title of my review.  Dan Patrick and Keith Olberman were incredibly great together on air, and they continue this trend with The Big Show.<br />Not only is this book  hilariously funny (two different fonts was pure genius), but it gives you  an incredibly in-depth look at the behind-the-scenes making of the greatest  sports' news show on television.  Yes, today most of topics in the book are  outdated, but you can still relate to the athletes they discuss.<br />The  authors also share their totally different stories of their respective  rises to the top, as well as discussing larger sports' stories that have  been well documented in the news.  In doing so, they use easy-flowing  descriptive language, intertwined with their vast knowledge of sports on  the whole.  This funny and insightful book is a must read for all sports  fans.	2000-06-03
US	50245100	R1QKLHF4CSL7S9	0395979854	304267562	Hurricane: The Miraculous Journey of Rubin Carter	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Detailed Account Worth Reading	James Hirsch depicts Rubin &quot;Hurricane&quot; Carter's legal battle quite well in this nicely written biography.  It is obvious that Hirsch did countless hours of research to complete it.<br />The detail, whether it is on  the actual cases, his  life in prison, his encounter with Lezra, or just  the background, is incredible.  I liked the fact that he took this  overabundance of meticulous, detailed information and spewed it out into a  very cogent and readable format.<br />Carter's story is one of perserverance,  courage, and inspiration.  Hirsh captures this perfectly in this  well-written book.  You won't be disappointed.	2000-06-03
US	50245100	R3UVD63J9NHRQE	1887432787	851045183	Dan Marino: The Making of a Legend	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Dan Is And Always Will Be The Man	I must admit that I am the biggest Dan Marino fan of all time, so I read this book with a little bias.  However, Beckett Publications always produce good books.<br />This book is extremely well written, and there are tons of  super pictures, many of which, I had never seen.  Instead of having one  storyline from start to finish, this book uses several authors, many of  whom are well-recognizable to the sportsworld, to depict Marino's story  throughout time.<br />Nobody in the game of football was a better pure passer,  and nobody ever graced the game with more passion and competitiveness.   This book sheds light on Dan Marino's overwhelming deisire to compete and  win.  In reading this book, you'll easily win too.	2000-06-03
US	50245100	R25L11PSIWSDJ8	0767904656	649000501	Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Insightful &amp; Informative	Bob Costas is an excellent commentator, as well as sports journalist, and let's not forget his matchmaking abilities with Amhad Rashaad on Thanksgiving day.  In this book, he shows off his excellent ability to  reach out to his readers.<br />In Fair Ball, he exemplifies all that is wrong  with the game of baseball, and offers a good plan,  loaded with programs  involving things like revenue sharing and salary caps, to correct these  wrongs.  Unfortunately, this will probably never happen, but I applaud  Costas' effort to point these things out.<br />Costas uses a nice flowing  language to make the book enjoyable and entertaining.  He peppers his  argument with an extraordinary knowledge of the game, and uses his  journalistic abilities to hammers his points home.  Fair Ball is an easy  read, and will be enjoyed by all baseball fans.	2000-06-02
US	50245100	R1PQI9B6G598F1	1890819018	211502695	The Cuban cop	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Better Writing Would Have Made a Better Book	In the Cuban Cop, Nick Navarro relives the stories that amounted to his incredibly fast rise to the top of his field.  Some of the stories were downright amazing, but the writing just couldn't live up to them.<br />Navarro had an unbelievable career in law enforcement, one that he describes in great detail.  However, he jumps around too much as there isn't really a cohesive flow to the book.  Sometimes, I had a hard time figuring out why he would be talking about a particular story during certain sections in the book.  It was obvious in several areas that certain stories just didn't belong.<br />The book became very dry at certain points, making it hard to stay interested. Several times, humor was used at the wrong time, yet, there were certain times where humor definately needed to be inserted just to help with the overall flow.<br />The Cuban Cop has some fascinating stories, but they just aren't tied together well enough to make this book a good read.  Perhaps, a more cogent writing style would have improved it.	2000-05-29
US	50245100	R3FTJ4ZMJTMTBP	0345427653	241741985	Star Wars, Episode 1: The Phantom Menace	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Fairly Good Adaptation	In the book, Terry Brooks adds a little bit more then you see in the movie.  Actually, the beginning of the book describes a scene entirely  different from the movie, and this was a very nice touch.<br />Brooks is very  descriptive in his writing style, and the amount of detail used is  phenominal.  The story had a lot of different characters involved, and  Brooks did a good job of making sure they all got their fair share of time  in the sun.<br />His use of dialogue is very appropriate as he never dwells on  anything too long, and he adheres to the movie quite nicely.  All in all,  the book is a nice, quick read, and a definate must for all Star Wars fans.	2000-05-29
US	50245100	R15FK506DA0KY1	0345441451	821809005	Warrior Queen: The Totally Unauthorized Story of Joanie Laurer	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Good Subject, Bad Book	Chyna has an interesting story to tell, just not by Scott Edelman.  While he writes well in his magazine, the book left a lot to be desired.  There was not enough detail in this book to really get into Chyna's entertaining biography.  In Warrior Queen, Edelman relies on old interviews, magazine articles, and video tapes for the subject matter.  There hardly was any dialogue which made the book quite choppy at points.  The writing style was extremely basic and rather boring, but fairly easy to read.  Unfortunately, the brief trivia section at the end of the book was the best part.	2000-05-28
US	50245100	R3MJJXI6A0M390	0553151096	85364451	Yobgorgle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the Funniest Children's Books of All Time	I know this book is really hard to find, but if you do come across it, please don't hesitate to pick it up.  I loved reading it when I was in elementary school several years ago, and I enjoy it all over again when I read it to my kids now.<br />It is the story of Eugene Winkleman spending a two-week vacation with his Uncle Mel in New York. They see a movie about a sea monster named &quot;Yobgorgle&quot; that resides in Lake Ontario.  Eugene then meets Professor Ambrose McFwain, the man who made the movie.  Eugene quickly becomes his assistant, and embarks on the wildest summer adventure of all time, loaded with many unexpected twists.  <br />This book is loaded with strange, off-the-wall humor and wacky languange that makes it enjoyable for children of all ages.  Each chapter will leave you wondering what crazy things will happen next.  Trust me, the fun doesn't stop.  Your kids will love the madcap events, wild storyline, and pure craziness.	2000-05-28
US	50245100	RKZN4I86PW22G	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best Civil War Book Of All Time	I just finished re-reading this book (first time was in college), and I remembered why I liked it so much.  This book is written with such a good style and use of language, it is hard to put down.  It is extremely  descriptive, but you are never lost in the abundance of information.  It is  hard to put the excellence of this book into words, so you'll just have to  read it for yourself.  It's like a textbook that reads like a thriller.   Please, do yourself a favor, and read this book.  The historical content  will easily keep you interested and it winds up teaching you a few things  in the process.	2000-05-13
US	50245100	R12723S1962YKG	038549226X	287222394	Loose Balls: Easy Money, Hard Fouls, Cheap Laughs and True Love in the NBA	Books	3	2	3	N	N	You'll Laugh So Hard, You Might.....Dribble	Jayson Williams' Loose Balls is the basketball equivalent to Jim Bouton's Ball Four.  Although I would consider this light reading, the book had some great stories that made me laugh out loud.  Williams spares no expense at  uncovering some of the game's inside anecdotes.  He rips into several NBA  players and coaches (poor &quot;Hammer&quot; Gilliam), but he also allows  the reader to laugh at him, through his own personal tales of wit and  humor.  In this book, Williams says a lot of the things people want to say,  but are afraid to.  The writing leaves a lot to be desired, but you can't  help but laugh at the content.  Jayson Williams says he wants to be  remembered as a man who turned his life around, and became a good person.   By the end of the book, you will feel this way about him, and you will have  a big smile on your face in the process.	2000-05-13
US	50245100	R1DC3GYHXBW42C	0399145672	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Trouble Can Be Funny, Especially In This Book	I laughed a lot in Dave Barry's first attempt at fiction.  While it is not his funniest work, it does have its moments of purely hilarious moments.  Three chapters into the book, I still had absolutely no idea what the book  was about, but Barry warns you about this in the introduction.<br />In its  simplest form, Big Trouble is truly about remarkable coincidences.  From  the street wanderer Puggy to Roger the dog, you can't help but sit back and  enjoy the crazy storyline, peppered with mystery, suspence, and even some  romance.<br />Big Trouble is really easy reading, and you should be able to  finish the book in one sitting.  The humor is constant, and the underlying  mystery will keep you on edge until the wacky climax.  Throw in Dave  Barry's talent and the South Florida setting, and you will easily enjoy  this book.	2000-05-13
US	50245100	R2YKWYTFL4VHHI	0807083054	640447547	Kindred (Black Women Writers Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	You Won't Want To Put This Book Down	Octavia E. Butler did an incredible job of capturing the reader's attention right away, and not letting go.  Her novel takes us on a science fiction journey from 1976 to the antebellum South.  In these journeys,  Dana, a young black woman, is constantly being summoned back in time to  save Rufus, the white son of a plantation owner.  Dana returns often to  save Rufus to ensure her heritage, as he will eventually grow up and father  her ancestor.  Her journeys are rich in southern history and portray a  classic battle of personal morals vs. personal heritage in a real racial  dilemma.  Butler does a fantastic job of developing her characters, as well  as the woderful plot.  This book is a must read for all fans of good  literature.	2000-05-04
US	50245100	R6LE1HXEPS1ID	0345431138	315438574	Dave Barry's Only Travel Guide You'll Ever Need	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pack This Book Next To Your Non-Wrinkled Suit	This is the only travel guide you will ever need.  Dave Barry covers it all in this dynamic (Chapter 5 inside joke) book.  His helpful tips are amazingly funny and the brief histories and informational maps are downright hilarious.  You cannot help but laugh out loud on almost every  page.  Thinking about the section on how to speak a foreign language has me  chuckling right now.  This book will have you rolling in the aisle of your  airplane, making a complete spectacle of yourself, but entertaining the  other passengers.  After all, as Barry points out, air travel is the real  reason why birds never look truly relaxed.  Neither will you once you see  his diagram of how an airplane flies, but, one thing you will do is laugh  uncontrollably.  You can't help but enjoy this book.	2000-05-03
US	50245100	R2MJHWWTLQF0KB	006019264X	208947493	Crashing the Net: The U.S. Women's Olympic Ice Hockey Team and the Road to Gold	Books	3	2	3	N	N	She Shoots.....She Scores!	Mary Turco captures the excitement that surrounded the first U.S. Women's Olympic Ice Hockey Team.  Unfortunately, the text wasn't quite as excited.  Although the stories were interesting, they were dryly written.  It was  hard to get behind these remarkable athletes as there just didn't seem to  be enough character developement.  These wonderful gold-medal winners all  had to fight the prejudices against women's sports to follow their dreams  and serve as inspiration, but this aspect was barely touched upon.  The  spirit of the 1998 U.S. Women's Hockey Team and their amazing journey was  nicely remembered and portrayed, but you will not find much of anything  else.	2000-04-29
US	50245100	R334BK385PK9TX	0385310994	137975802	The Last Great Ride	Books	4	1	2	N	N	No Need To Buckle Up For This Ride	Although this book is dated in its subject, I couldn't help but smile as I read about the television shows that shaped NBC.  In this wonderfully written book about the populist medium of television, Tartakoff relives the interesting stories that helped bring NBC to the forefront of modern  programming.  I was fascinated to find out that ABC passed on the idea of  &quot;The Cosby Show&quot; not once but twice, or that he believed in  &quot;Hill Street Blues&quot; so much that it was the lowest rated show in  television history to be renewed after its first season.  In this anecdotal  account his experiences, Tartikoff learns to laugh at himself as he  redefined broadcast entertainment, never looking back.  You will definately  enjoy this &quot;ride,&quot; and, at the very least, be fascinated by the  incredibly entertaining stories of some of your favorite television shows  of the past.  This book is a must read for any fan of television.	2000-04-29
US	50245100	RV2INFKTA1E5R	0517595753	439982425	Dave Barry In Cyberspace	Books	4	3	3	N	N	You'll Laugh So Hard, You'll See Stars....In Cyberspace	Dave Barry is definately one of the funniest writers of all time, and he continues to shine in this book.  Every single page is loaded with intelligent humor, so much so, that you will need a box of tissues.  The  book, written like a computer manual, is very easy to read and flows quite  nicely.  His ride through the information superhighway is pure genius and  non-stop hilarious laughter.  This book is a must read for any  computer-user, or for anyone who enjoys playing with his joystick.  Do not  &quot;Abort, Retry, or Fail&quot; in picking up this book.	2000-04-26
US	50245100	R3CS1JUBIPBS19	0060392983	606000879	The Rock Says...	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Rock Has A Lot To Say, So Know Your Role, and Listen Up.	Riding Mick Foley's wave of success, Dwayne Johnson, a.k.a. &quot;The Rock&quot; writes a fairly entertaining book.  Partially written as Johnson and patially written as The Rock, the book seems to flow quite nicely and  keeps you reading, because you never quite know who is going to &quot;be  speaking&quot; in the next chapter.  Albeit, the Rock had a lot more  background storylines than Foley, so the wrestling portion doesn't really  make a full blown appearance until after the first few chapter, which  really helps the book out a lot.  It is peppered with humor nicely, and the  football anecdotes are entertaining.  However, the best part of the book  has to be the end, where The Rock talks about his Wrestlemania XV WWF  Championship match with &quot;Stone Cold&quot; Steve Austin.  Even the  beginner wrestling fan has to enjoy reading about the loads of preparation  that goes into their in-ring performances.  I was completely intrigued by  The Rock's candid &quot;opening of the door&quot; to meticulus,  pain-staking preparation that goes into this entertainment spectacle.  This  book is an excellent read, and will definately keep you entertained.  Know  your role, shut your mouth, and read this book.  Oh, and have a nice day!	2000-04-21
US	50245100	R3RX2P57DW5PAC	068483247X	830260721	I Was Right On Time	Books	3	4	7	N	N	You're Right On Time To Discover the Memories	Despite a somewhat basic writing style, Buck O'Neil does an adequate job of describing the development of black baseball players.  He tells the story of his life, outside of the baseball world as well, and nicely  incorporates the stories of several fellow greats from the Negro Leagues  like Satchel Paige, Josh Gibson, and Cool Papa Bell.  And O'Neil has some  really great stories to tell, stories that the world of baseball has  overlooked.  The book is not just for fans of baseball, but for everybody,  as he inspires you to love what you do, and live life at its fullest.  He  claims the greatest thing in life is loving you, and to get there, you have  to give of yourself and just give it up.  Give it up for this book of  remarkable events.	2000-01-19
US	50245100	R24NIB7INBR05B	0060392991	634723262	Mankind: Have a Nice Day - A Tale of Blood and Sweatsocks	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Have a Nice Night, Because You Won't Put It Down!	Mick Foley did an excellent job of intertwining his personal life and his wrestling persona, in his first book, peppering it with humor and a nice use of language.  Every single page had me wanting to turn to the very  next.  I could not put it down.  I have a whole new respect for his  entertaining sport, and the men who rule it.  He never dwelled on anything  too much, and his explanations of the behind-the-scenes action was  remarkable.  This is a must read for every fan of professional wrestling,  as well as anyone whoever wanted something so bad, they wouldn't give up.   Mick never let go of his dream.  I promise you that you will not let go of  this book.	2000-01-17
