US	50253662	R314WU39IMSY34	0802117813	354136341	100 Strokes of the Brush Before Bed	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A very sexy cinderella	Told in diary form, this is the story of a girl's growing sexual awareness and search for love. After an unsatisfactory sexual encounter at the age of fourteen, she commits herself to the idea that by giving her body to any man that comes along, he might taste her \\"rage and bitterness and therefore experience a modicum of tenderness.\\" He might also \\"fall so deeply in love with [her] passion that he won't be able to do without it.\\"  On this flimsy premise that only a self-obsessed teenager would find profound, we follow her from one sexual encounter to another until finally she finds her Prince Charming, who is both tender and in love with her - and, not insignificantly, good in bed.     The story is something of a fairy tale aimed at teenage girls: the narrator tells us that she is ugly, but everyone else in the book comments on her beauty, including passing lorry drivers. There is a happy-ever-after quality to the ending. A Cinderella for sexually curious teenage girls, maybe?    I would not call this book erotic. Despite experiencing group sex, lesbian sex, rough sex, bondage, and viewing homosexual sex, Melissa P. does not dwell on sexual descriptions in the way an erotic writer would. There is a detached air about her sexual descriptions. It is almost as if she were aiming to write a book about her growing sexual awareness in the manner of Yukio Mishima in `Confessions of a Mask.' Yet, the ending is too pat, too much like a fairytale, to be autobiographical. The dwelling on her sexual encounters raises the suspicion that this is as much a sexual fantasy as it is anything else. She falls between two stools. Too much sexual fantasising to be truly autobiographical and not enough vivid detail to be erotic. The two sexy pictures of the author are a tad suspicious, as well.     Despite that, this book is enjoyable. I read it in one sitting - it is only 154 pages. The narrative pulls you along and if the story doesn't convince, it does give you an insight into what goes on in a teenage girl's head.	2005-01-03
US	50253662	RIF987V2613AO	0747553300	409882467	Dazzling Stranger: Bert Jansch and the British Folk and Blues Revival	Books	5	25	25	N	N	An essential book on the dazzling Bert Jansch	If you are into the British folk and blues scene of the early 60s, then this is the book for you. It vividly describes the burgeoning Edinburgh folk scene of the Scottish revival where Jansch developed his unique guitar style, drawing heavily upon such blues stylists as Big Bill Broonzy and Brownie McGee. London had its own burgeoning folk scene, dominated by larger than life personalities like Ewan McColl, A.L.Loyd, Dominic Behan, and Davy Graham, who was furrowing a similar furrow to Jansch. Jansch drifted down to London where he met the English folk singer, Annie Briggs. They struck up a close relationship. He learnt a large part of his repertoire from her, to which he would apply his own blues oriented stylistic approach. This would bloom with his third album, \\"Jack Orion\\", where he approached traditional English folk songs as if he were a blues artist. For instance, \\"The Gardener\\" is sung in a wordless vocal similar to Blind Willie Johnson's \\"Dark Was The Night-Cold Was The Ground,\\" while on the title track, he extends phrases and repeats them over and over again for a hypnotic and spellbinding 9 minutes. There had been nothing like this in folk music before. With this album, he extended and fully realised the folk-boroque style, which drew upon folk, blues, and jazz, and which was pioneered by Davy Graham.     Jansch was not only a unique and masterly guitarist and singer, but an excellent songwriter. Steering clear of politics, to the disgust of McColl, he honed in on the personal. He celebrated personal independence with \\"Strolling Down The Highway\\" and \\"Rambling's Going To Be The Death Of Me.\\" He wrote incredibly moving love songs such as \\"A Dream, A Dream, A Dream\\" and \\"Oh How Your Love Is Strong.\\" His anti-drug song, \\"Needle of Death\\", was greatly admired by Neil Young, and was to influence Young's own collection of anti-drug songs, \\"Tonight's the Night.\\"     Jansch met up with John Renbourne and found someone who was not only on the same musical wavelength but who could match him for ability. They recorded \\"Bert & John\\" together, a beautiful album of guitar duets, and then they went on to form Pentangle, which had Bert and John on guitars, backed by a jazz rhythm section, and fronted by a traditional English folk singer. It was here that they hit the big time, touring the world and raking in the money.     Jansch is a private man, permanently scruffy and reserved, seemingly unconcerned with the trappings of stardom. However, Colin Harper has successfully brought this man to life, describing Jansch's weakness for alcohol, his failed marriages, and his various friendships, the most important of which seem to be Annie Briggs and John Renbourne. The best part of the book is the first half where he describes Jansch's developing talent and the music scene in which he developed it. The latter part of the book is not so interesting because Jansch is himself less interesting, no longer pioneering, and living off his past reputation.     If you love Jansch then you will want to read this book. If you love the British folk and blues revival, then you will also want to read it, because the period and the characters that dominated it are brought vividly to life. Colin Harper deserves credit for that.	2003-10-08
US	50253662	R382H8D8IKN31P	0446306592	264762067	Strange Wine	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Drink deeply from Ellison's Strange Wine......it is potent	It is good news that this book is soon to be republished. It's about time. I've been a fan of Ellison for a quarter of a century and this, by far, is my favourite book of his. If you have never come across Ellison before, you're in for a treat. A master story-teller, he breaks new ground with practically every story, whether it is in the style of the telling - such as \\"From A to Z, The Chocolate Alphabet\\"-, or in the subject matter - \\"Croatoan.\\" Whatever the style or the subject matter, the voice of Ellison is unmistakable, -uncompromising, vivid, funny, and perceptive- so that even if an Ellison story did not have his name above it, you would quickly guess whom it was.  The stories range from the humorous \\"Mom\\" to the serious \\"In Fear of K.\\" Whatever he writes, he is thoroughly entertaining. What makes this collection of stories different from his others is that this collection has an introduction for every story. With any other writer, this would be an intrusion; but with Ellison, it works, because the man is funny, wise, and entertaining. They are basically a miscellany of anything that Ellison wants to talk about: How he came to write this or that story; where he wrote it; the ideas behind it- and sometimes the connection to the story is tenuous.\\" The New York Review of Bird\\" for instance. You won't care. It is all good stuff. I usually find at least one story in any collection that I don't like, and this book is no exception. \\"Seeing\\" I found unreadable. This is a mere quibble. Everything else in here is just dandy. It even has a wonderful cover by Leo and Dianne Dillon. What more can a person want?	2003-06-17
US	50253662	R18UJM9332BFK2	0330492500	549753057	Blood and Champagne: The Life of Robert Capa	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The 20th Century's greatest photojournalist	The life of Robert Capa is fascinating. Born in Budapest in 1913, he was to die forty years later in Vietnam after establishing himself as one of the great photojournalists of the 20th Century. He captured on film some of the most memorable pictures in the Spanish Civil War, including the iconic \\"The Falling Soldier.\\" A shameless propagandist for the Republican cause, he thought nothing of having combatants \\"pose\\" for some of his most dramatic pictures - including, many think, \\"The Falling Soldier.\\" Did the republican soldier fall because he was shot or because he tripped? Was it posed? The jury is still out on that one. A Jew at a time when anti-Semitism was rife in Europe, he became a committed anti-fascist and socialist. He established the photographers' co-operative, Magnum, in order that photographers had control over their own photographs and earnings. This was not so different to the kibbutzim established in Israel by highly idealistic settlers whom he so admired. Needless to say, Capa was there to record the birth of the fledgling state of Israel in 1948 and caught on film that nation's birth pains as it battled with its Arab neighbours. War was his medium, even though he hated it. He went over in a landing craft to photograph the D-Day landings and produced some of the most memorable pictures of battle ever taken. This was despite that most of the pictures were ruined during the rushed processing in London and some of those that survived are out of focus. <br />Capa was talented, generous, humorous, and charismatic. An inveterate gambler, he played poker with the likes of John Huston and Ernest Hemmingway, and inevitably lost. Like most people who don't care about money, money problems plagued him. Highly sexed, he counted some of the most beautiful women of the age amongst his lovers, including Ingrid Bergman. When lovers were not immediately available, he contended himself with prostitutes. Loving and loved in return, he was too much of a bohemian to commit himself to a permanent relationship. He could have been rich, but he never was. He could have happily married, but he never did. <br />Capa's luck ran out when he went to Vietnam in 1953 to cover the war between the French and the Vietnamese and trod on a landmine. <br />Alex Kershaw deserves credit for writing such a meticulously researched and readable biography.	2003-05-18
US	50253662	R3EKDPUQSARMH2	1585092118	761153642	A Short History of the World	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Erudite, vivid, and entertaining...essential reading.	This is the book that had such a powerful impact on Malcolm X. Its easy to see why. The history of the world is vividly outlined in an erudite and readable style. (Ever since I read `The Time Machine' when I was sixteen, I have considered Wells to be the clearest writer of prose in the English language.) Wells takes us from the very beginning of life right up to the League of Nations in 1922, stopping off at most points in-between: Neolithic cavemen, Periclean Athens, Roman and Byzantium civilisations, the life of Jesus, Confucius and Lao Tse, the rise of Islam, the Dark Ages, the Renaissance, discovery of America, the Industrial Revolution, World War I, and so on. The book is breathtaking in its scope, but Wells manages to give a succinct, vivid and comprehensive view of world history. I have found myself re-reading many of the chapters and I do not doubt that I will soon be re-reading the book in its entirety. There is little to criticise in this book - maybe it is a little Euro-centric; in the last chapters he does tend to labour his point a bit; and the early chapters are a little dated as we now know so much more about the evolution of our species. These are mere quibbles. Read it and become informed. Read it and be entertained.	2003-05-11
US	50253662	RZD3MY2XCZ1UX	1903047838	217774101	New Labour (Pocket Essential series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The strange suicide of the British Labour Party	One of the most remarkable events in post-war Britain is not the advent of Thatcherism, although that was remarkable enough; but the transformation of the British Labour Party from a social democrat party with its roots in the urban working class and trade union movement to a conservative party in thrall to big business. 'The Rise of New Labour' tracks this transformation from Prime Minister Heath's government of the 70s through to the present day.<br />This booklet (pamphlet really) covers a lot of ground in its 94 pages, but Ramsay's arguments are compelling and intriguing. According to Ramsay, Competition and Credit Control introduced under Heath abolished controls on borrowing. The interest rate alone would control credit in the economy. Heath hoped that this would create a credit boom that would finance industry. What happened instead were a consumer boom, a rise in property values, a flood of imports, and a trade deficit. Because Heath would not allow interest rates to rise high enough to suppress borrowing, he got roaring inflation. Trade Unions campaigned to increase the wages of their members in order to keep up with inflation. (As Ramsey points out, trade union militancy was not the cause of inflation, as was often stated, but the result of inflation. If unions were chasing after wage rises lower than inflation, they were effectively asking for a cut in wages. Therefore, to say that wage rises were responsible for inflation in the 70s is to mistake effect for cause. A myth that has become established as fact.) In 1973, Heath suspended Competition and Credit Control. <br />When Labour came back into power, inheriting Heath's inflation, Prime Minister James Callaghan went to the IMF and borrowed money to defend the value of the pound, which by this time had taken a hammering. In this, the Callaghan government was successful. They were also attempting to bring down inflation without causing a recession. The electorate thanked the Callaghan government by turfing them out of office and putting Thatcher into No. 10. <br />The nightmare began. Thatcher came in to power with the intention of bringing down inflation through controlling the money supply. Raising interest rates would do this. This would create a recession, but the long-term benefits would out-weigh the short-term cost, and if the manufacturing industry would bear the brunt of the recession, so be it. She didn't care. Manufacturing was old hat. Manufacturing was also the base for the craft unions and where support for Labour lay. Who cared about them? Emphasis shifted away from manufacturing and towards finance, a shift that was to be financed by North Sea Oil. The City of London (the financial centre of Britain) captured the imagination of the Conservative Party, and in time, the Labour Party as well. As a result, Britain's manufacturing base was reduced to almost nothing. Northern England, Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland wallow in depression while the economy in the South East of England, where the financial industry resides, continually overheats. <br />This is the gist of Robin Ramsay's argument, I think. Like most people, I'm no economist and in order to follow Ramsey's argument, you need to keep your wits about you. There is more. He goes on at length to explain how after losing four elections in a row the Labour Party embraced Thatcherism in order to get elected; how the present incumbent of No. 10 recreated the Labour Party to resemble that of the American Democrat Party - always a paper tiger; and how the institutions of Britain (especially the Treasury) undermined Britain's true interest. There is also an interesting look at the relationship between certain sections of British society, including the Labour Movement, and the United States. There is a lot to mull over here, but for those confused as to the direction of the British Labour Party under Tony Blair, then Ramsey explains what happened, why it happened, and why it need never have happened. For those who refuse to accept the present consensus of neo-liberal doctrines, then this book should be a welcome addition to your armoury. Ramsey knows his stuff. He has done his homework. Read this booklet and you will see UK history in a different light.	2002-12-30
US	50253662	R3VW3MD3S8OAHN	0759229945	275411141	Paingod and other delusions	Books	5	6	7	N	N	It can truly be said that Ellison is a writer like no other!	Ellison, for the most part, has been out of print for the past twenty years, and that, in my opinion, is a bad thing. A very bad thing! During the 60s and 70s, he was not only the best writer of the New Wave of science-fiction, he was also the most original short story writer around. It can be said that he wrote like no one else. His style is vigorous, compelling and lucid. No one else can hold a candle to him. A prolific writer, he wrote something like 700 stories, starting from the 50s and continuing through to the early 80s. The stories in this collection are from the 60s, and what a wonderful collection it is too. <br />'\\"Repent, Harlequin\\" said the Tick Tock Man' is a story every bit as good as it's title - and I think that the title is a real peach. In about 3000 words he describes a dystopia where society is ruthlessly regimented by the clock. If you are five minutes late for an appointment, you lose five minutes off your life. The Tick Tock Man (or the Master Timekeeper, to call him by his official title) rules with a ruthless efficiency, and relentlessly tracks down the Harlequin, the ultimate non-conformist who refuses to be on time and who ingeniously disrupts the smooth running of this soulless society. If you have read 1984, you will know what happens- but there is a lovely twist at the end, which I won't spoil by giving away. The story may sound daft but it works and works beautifully. His imagination is unique. His aim is true. In Paingod, another classic, he tries to explain why there is so much pain in the world and why it is so necessary. There are other glories here: 'The Discarded', 'The Crackpots' and 'Deeper Than Darkness.' All worth your perusal. Each story is preceded by a short introduction that is as readable, entertaining and lively as the stories.<br />Ellison is a wonderful writer who doesn't deserve the neglect that has befallen him. Buy this book and maybe -yes, just maybe! - it will encourage some enterprising publisher to reprint such essential collections as Strange Wine, Deathbird Stories, Alone Against Tomorrow, and Approaching Oblivion. Why Ellison isn't one of the most popular men of American letters utterly baffles me. He is as good as the best and better than most.	2002-12-19
US	50253662	R1XG5SJVT8GPSS	086091318X	58480373	Deterring Democracy	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A relentless analysis of America's imperial project.	All Chomsky's political books have one aim: To show to the world, and to American's in particular, that America's foreign policy is imperial in design. This book is his best. Chapter by chapter he shows how the Cold War was essentially the creation of the USA to cloak its own global ambitions: - to become the first truly world power. He shows how \\"communist\\" revolutions were usually nationalist in flavour, including Cuba and Vietnam; how America wants unlimited access to cheap primary markets in the Third World; how America's victims are usually left-leaning politicians, civil-right activists, trade unionists, and peasants, -in other words, people who might harm US investments; and how America prefers democracy - except where democracy may threaten American business interest. When American business interests are threatened by democracy, socialists are pushed out of office and replaced with right-of-centre coalitions, coupled with CIA covert operations to undermine popular organisations such as trade unions.<br />Noam Chomsky says this: \\"Democratic forms can be tolerated, even admired, if only for propaganda purposes. But this stance can be adopted only when the distribution of effective power ensures that meaningful participation of the 'popular classes' has been barred. When they organise and threaten the control of the political system by the business-land-owning elite and the military, strong measures must by taken, with tactical variations depending on the ranking of the target population on the scale of importance. At the lowest level, in the Third World, virtually no holds are barred.\\"<br />This book is uncompromising and Chomsky is relentless in his argument and presentation of facts. Once you get to the end, you will be find it difficult to refute what Chomsky says. If you have never questioned America's foreign policy before-then you are in for a radical shake-up of the intellect. For those of us who care about the world, believe in the self-determination of nations, and want to cut through the pious cant of governments, this is the place to start.	2002-12-18
US	50253662	R2G6PXTM2HCPMI	1903931010	896386841	Teena Thyme	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A racy and compelling story	Jennifer Jane Pope's writing is racy and the story compelling. This book is a time travel story that takes a plucky modern heroine and plunges her into the clutches of a Victorian aristocrat who is a villian of the old school. You boo and hiss him throughout the whole book. Teena Thyme is tied up, beaten, and humiliated. Despite her yearning to be free and all her valiant efforts, she remains a prisoner until ...well, I wont give away the plot. If the characters are a bit one-dimensional, they are vivid and lively, and remain in your head long after the book has finished. If I have a criticism, it is that the ending is left unfinished, leaving the reader to wait until the next volume is published until he/she finds out what happens next. That apart, it is a good read and I recommend it.	2002-12-07
US	50253662	RC9KVP4X3VN4B	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Slaughterhouse 5 ranks alongside Catch 22.	Slaughterhouse 5 is every bit as good as it's reputation suggests. It is witty, observant, humane, and clever. Vonnegut writes in a deceptively simple prose, but which must have been difficult to have pulled off: namely, the way the story flits from the present to the past and to the future, very often in a single page, but manages to do it without disturbing the effortless flow of the narrative. No mean trick for a writer. A favourite book of mine. I can also recommend some of his earlier books: The Sirens of Titan; Piano Player; Mother Night, and Player Piano. His later books are not so hot; but Slaughterhouse 5 is his masterpiece. Like Heller's Catch 22, with which it has something in common, it is fun to read. My only gripe is with the cover, which is dull beyond belief. Leo and Diane Dillon: We need you. Where are you?	2002-12-06
US	50253662	RDW6P6EHBXVAU	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A modern American classic	Charlie Gordon is a retard, but an operation boosts his intelligence so that he becomes a genius. However, it becomes clear that the operation might start regressing and he may end up as retarded as when he started. The story is skilfully told in diary form, with the writing accurately reflecting the mental ability of Gordon. We watch through Gordon's eyes his mental ascent to unassailable heights; fumbling with his emotional development as it lags behind his intellect; coming to terms with his past....and brooding upon his eventual future. Although the story is sad on so many levels, the book is never depressing and always compelling. This is because Keyes is a writer of skill and subtlety, and deserves to be known to a wider audience than his narrow science fiction base. A minor 20th Century classic.	2002-11-14
US	50253662	R1VFPQ2BW8PPQK	0679766626	574131654	Last Orders	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Faulkner could teach Swift a thing or two about style	Boring. Boring. Boring. The story is boring. The writing is boring. The characterisation is boring. In a word, the book is a giant bore. I tried reading when it won the Booker. I gave up after three chapters. On seeing some of the comments here, I decided to give Last Orders a second chance. After all, I loved Waterland and if his other books don't come near to matching it, they are readable enough - although I couldn't for the life of me tell you what one of them was about.     Last Orders is told in the first person from the viewpoint of five people. This style of story telling only works if the writing is good enough to give the characters strong enough personalities to be recognisable from their own words. A voice of their own, so to speak. Swift is unable to do this. Without the names of the characters appearing on the chapter headings, it would be difficult to tell who was who. Consequently, I found myself caring little about them and nothing about their journey to Margate. In the hands of a better writer, this may work, but not with Graham Swift.	2002-10-29
US	50253662	R3MFKQL1GHYXKO	0439163005	457534055	The Giggler Treatment	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Discover the inner child in you and read this book	This book is a delight from start to finish. I cannot honestly say that I am a judge of children's literature. I have not read kid's books since, well, since I was a kid, and that was in the early 60s! Are Captain W.E. Johns and Enid Blyton still popular? The only reason I bought the 'The Giggler Treatment' was Roddy Doyle's name on the cover. He is one of our best contemporary writers. 'The Barrytown Trilogy', 'Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha', and 'The Woman Who Walked Into Doors' are gritty slices of life which show a genuine sympathy and understanding of modern Irish life. Modern classics, every one of them. I was a bit surprised when I saw that he had written a children's book. Intrigued by the good reviews, I decided to risk buying it. I'm I glad I did. The story is just wonderful. It is clever, funny, ingenious, beautifully told, oh, and any other superlatives you like to add. (I particularly love the way that everything takes place within such a minuscule time span. Is Doyle rewriting the rules of children's 21st Century literature in the same way that Joyce did for the 20th Century novel? ) <br />How a child would view this book, I don't know. Favourably, I would have thought. Doyle is irreverent enough to get them onto his side and funny enough to keep them there. There is so much in this book to admire. Buy it for a child, by all means; but read it first. You will enjoy.	2002-10-01
US	50253662	R1EDFKUI69ID64	0312420153	438806274	Prince of the Clouds	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A superb and enthralling novel	Prince of the Clouds follows the life of Colonel Carlo Terzo, a brilliant military strategist who has never seen action. His life is utterly changed by the arrival of Emma, a Russian aristocratic, who may not be all that she appears, but who gives his humdrum life passion, meaning, purpose...and, inevitably, tragedy.<br />This beautifully told and written (or translated?) story by Gianni Riotta had me spell-bound from the first to last page. It is populated by colourful and well-delineated characters who linger in the brain long after you have put the book down. I never thought that a novel which spends so much time describing battle strategies could be so engrossing, but Riotta manages to pull it off because he makes it concise and to-the-point, (there are no longueurs in the book) and makes it a key element to both the character of Colonel Carlo Terzo and to the plot. This is a superb book. Read it and enjoy. I can't wait for Riotta's second novel.	2002-08-26
US	50253662	RLGKTRP6673EM	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A gripping story in a parallel alternative universe London	Neil Gaiman's 'Neverwhere' is a delight from start to finish. Richard Mayhew, a young Scot living and working in London, finds himself helping a young girl lying in a street who is being pursued by two sinister looking men. Reluctantly, he finds himself being drawn into a tangled web of a plot that leads him to an London Below, a London that exists both beneath London and as a parallel alternative universe London, a London where people live who \\"fall through the cracks.\\" This London is highly inventive, richly detailed, and, despite the unrealness of it, convincing. I, for one, will never be able to take the London Underground again and wonder about the trains with darkened windows that go though the stations without stopping - Do they carry the court of the Earl on it? And how did Earl's Court get its name? Or Baron's Court, for that matter? I shall certainly never go to Harrods or go on board HMS Belfast without thinking of the Floating Market. London Below is peopled with colourful and strange characters - The Lady Door, The Marquis de Carabas, Hunter, The Angel Islington, and many others, including the menacing Mr Vandemar and Mr Croup. This is the sort of book that Michael Moorcock would be writing if he was still writing decent books. Even if you don't know London, this book is still wonderful - you will want to get to know it. The story is gripping and the writing is vivid and sharp. I cannot recommend it highly enough. Gaiman, by far, is the best writer writing fantasy today.	2002-06-19
US	50253662	R1U0ZL897EM6YK	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fascinating journey through an alternative spiritual USA	At 628 pages, `American Gods' is a giant jellybean bag of a book with a tendency to sprawl all over the place. The premise of the book is fascinating: Every wave of settlers to America brought their own Gods with them, and when belief in these Gods died, the Gods lived on, making a living as best as they can. Shadow, a released convict, finds himself a pawn in a game played by the mightiest of the Norse pantheon, Mr Wednesday. He finds himself being dragged all over the USA, meeting the surviving Gods living in reduced circumstances, as Mr Wednesday tries to gather them all together to fight the new Gods of the Internet, the motor vehicle, and the rest of modern technology. Sadly, the end is a little anti-climatic. The apocalyptic war that is promised throughout the book peters out with a whimper rather than a bang. However, if the end disappoints, the telling of the story doesn't. Gaiman takes the reader on a fascinating journey, with lots of interesting asides that add to the narrative rather than deflect from it. The writing is both vivid and elusive. Gaiman is a one-off original. I'm off to check his other writings.	2002-06-09
US	50253662	R1I6JKS881WX2F	0843949783	372932416	Island	Books	3	2	5	N	N	A real page turner	Richard Laymon writes consistently good horror novels, and this is no exception. `Island' is a real page turner, involving the reader in a gripping tale that never relents until the very end, which in itself has an amusing twist that I wont spoil by giving away, only to say that it is true to its protagonist's behaviour. The faults with this book are the faults with all of Laymon's books. He relishes vivid descriptions of the gory details, the sadistic acts, and the sexual perversions to such an extent that I began to wish he had followed the old adage, \\"Less is more,\\" and allowed our imaginations to fill in the gaps. However, this shouldn't distract from Laymon's skill as both a humorous and as an exciting storyteller. The moral bankruptcy of the main character is both shocking and funny.	2002-04-27
US	50253662	R1SGKVVNVMKMAT	0156186004	535090105	A Collection of Essays	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great essayist and a lively read.	Orwell is as likely to go down in history as an essayist as he is as a novelist. The clarity of his style is matched only by the clarity of his thought. Orwell's belief in using language correctly, in order to transmit ideas, rather than to obscure them, is as essential to his idea of freedom as is democracy. He thought that the English language was in a bad way and set about to correct it in `Politics & the English Language.' \\"The English language,\\" says Orwell,\\" becomes ugly and inaccurate because our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of our language makes it easier for us to have foolish thoughts.... Modern English is full of bad habits...If one gets rid of these habits one can think more clearly, and to think clearly is a necessary first step towards political regeneration.\\" Lazy language - pretentious diction, meaningless words, and cliché - was a mask for lazy thinking. He would have been aghast at the abundance of modern jargon or the `spin' put on news stories by politicians today, both of which is to either hide up the paucity of genuine ideas or to mislead the public. For Orwell, to speak, and just as importantly, to write, clearly are important for the political process. These ideas were, of course, to feed into his novel, 1984, with its use of Double Speak, to say one thing while thinking another. We recognise these words and phrases all too well: People's Democracies for Communist dictatorship; pacification for mass murder and terror; We, the people for We, the ruling elite; and Protecting democracy for Defending our financial interests. <br />These essays, written in the 1930s and 40s, capture the era perfectly. His subject matter ranges widely and there is much here to chew over. It doesn't matter whether he is talking about the outdated jingoism of Rudyard Kipling, the true nature of British imperialism in India, the slightly obscene picture postcards of Donald McGill, the brutality and snobbishness of English Public schools, the lack of radicalism in Charles Dickens, or the horror of an execution that Orwell witnessed, all are brought vividly to life by the clarity of his writing, his keenness of intellect, and his eye for detail. Orwell will be remembered because he not only articulated the times in which he lived but also because he was a genuine literary artist.	2002-04-16
US	50253662	R84UOPONSYM35	0316109304	10200412	The Ascent of Man	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A giddy and fascinating journey through scientific history	This is a fascinating book that grew out of a fascinating TV series. The Ascent of Man attempts to follow the ascendancy of Mankind from his first evolutionary footsteps in pre-history through each significant cultural progression right up into the modern day, which was 1973, the date of publication of this book. Bronowski had a brilliant intellect and a huge knowledge of science and the arts. He also had a gift of articulating his knowledge in such a way as to make it, not only assessable, but interesting. Nowhere were his gifts put to better use than in this book. Chapter by chapter, he takes us through the ascent of Man, starting from the Stone Age caves of Altamira and through into agriculture; the discovery of fire and the elements; Pythagoras and mathematics; Copernicus, Galileo and astrology; Newton and Einstein; the Industrial Revolution; Darwin, Wallace and Natural Selection; Gregor Mendel and the discovery of Genetics, and into the final chapter, The Long Childhood, where Bronowski argues that science is \\"the recognition of the uniqueness of man, and a pride in his gifts and works. It is not the business of science to inherit the earth, but to inherit the moral imagination; because without that man and beliefs and science will perish together.\\" It's a giddy but satisfying journey. <br />There are parts that I did not understand; but most of it I did. This is not heavy reading. Bronowski had a real literary touch. Take this for example: \\"Man is a singular creature. He has a set of gifts which make him unique among the animals; so that, unlike them, he is not a figure in the landscape - he is a shaper of the landscape.\\" These two beautiful sentences set the tone and the subject of the book perfectly, and it is a standard that never lapses. Consider this descriptive piece of writing: \\"The sleeping hedgehog waits for the spring to burst its metabolism into life. The humming bird beats the air and dips its needle-fine beak into hanging blossoms. Butterflies mimic leaves and even noxious creatures to deceive the predators. The mole plods through the ground as if he had been designed as a mechanical shuttle.\\" How many literary artists wish they could write as well? <br />What makes this book work so well is the human touch. We not only learn about the discovery that the Earth is not the centre of the Universe, but we learn about the men, Copernicus and Galileo, as men, about the times they lived in, and the effect that their discovery had upon that world. As I know little about science, I cannot comment on the accuracy of his statements, although he seems to have attracted little in the way of criticism from those, who presumably, know their subject; but I can comment on his humanity, a subject, I like to think, I am able to comment on. \\"The monomaniac culture of conquest; the predator posing as a hero because he rides the whirlwind. But the whirlwind is empty. Horse or tank, Genghis Khan or Hitler or Stalin, it can only feed on the labours of other men.\\" For some reason, this phrase from Bronowski has haunted my mind since I first read this book in 1975. There have been writers who have commented on the hollowness of great men, but no one, as far as I am aware, has put it as succinctly as that. Bronowski's death in the 70s, shortly after The Ascent of Man was completed, was a great loss. There has been no one to replace him. Read this lavishly illustrated book, revel in the literary gifts and the brilliant intellect of Bronowski, and expand your own knowledge.	2002-04-16
US	50253662	R2UHKZWBD1BYKJ	0404146910	420198718	Lion and the Unicorn	Books	5	9	9	N	N	England's greatest democratic-socialist	When people think of Orwell, they remember him as an anti-Communist and a defender of liberal democracy. This is most certainly correct, but it should also be remembered that he was also a socialist, and a socialist of the old school. In The Lion &amp; The Unicorn, originally published as a pamphlet in the style of Paine or Cobbett, he attacks both the class system of England and its capitalist economic system. He thought that the \\"inefficiency of private capitalism has been proved all over Europe\\" and that World War II has \\"turned Socialism from a text-book word into a realisable policy.\\"  As a socialist, he thought that socialists had to make  \\"our words take physical shape.\\" He advocated a 6 point plan that would transform England into a socialist country, which included \\"Nationalisation of land, mines, railways, banks and major industries\\" and the \\"Limitation of incomes, on such a scale that the highest tax-free income in Britain does not exceed the lowest by more than ten to one.\\" One gets the impression that Orwell and Castro would have found a broad area of agreement. For Orwell, freedom, democracy, and socialism, were not incompatible, but were tightly bound together. He went to fight in the Spanish Civil War for the democratic republic, but fought alongside Marxists, Trotskiests, and Anarchists. Calling himself a \\"democratic socialist\\" was no contradiction to Orwell. <br />However, it should be remembered that this book was written in the 1940s. The world was a different place then. The political landscape has changed. If Orwell were alive now, what would his political opinions be? Who knows? You might as well ask what would Thomas Paine's political beliefs be if he were alive today. Anyone who hazards a guess, and there have been many, usually transposes their own political beliefs onto Orwell. Only one thing is certain: Orwell was a man of his time. This book, as do his other writings, reflect this. This is why he will be remembered. To read Orwell is tocapture a moment in history, articulated by a man who was deeply involved in the political life of his time, in much the same way as Paine, Hazlett, or Cobbett was. One comes to Orwell and breaths the political atmosphere of the age, and takes from him what is relevant to one's own self. What that will be will vary from one person to another. For my own part, it is satisfying to read someone who believes as passionately in socialism as he does in democracy, and argues for both with the same conviction; who believes in physical courage in fighting against injustice, -\\"manliness\\", if you will; who saw through the myth of British Imperialism; and who saw through the horrible snobbishness of the English class system.	2002-04-15
US	50253662	R3QYHMOZI6QLIG	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	N	An unengaging and unconvincing book	Ian McEwan is Britain's leading literary artist, so anything he publishes should be greeted with enthusiasm. However, this is a disappointment. This is a story of two men: one is a composer, Clive Linley, who is busy writing a symphony; and the other is a newspaper editor, Vernon Halliday, who publishes a series of photos in order to ruin a right-wing politician's career. A mutual lover, Molly Lane, who has since died, took the pictures. To publish them, Linley believes, would be to besmirch the memory of Molly Lane, whom they both loved. They fall out and their friendship sours; eventually, after a series of misunderstandings, themselves plot contrivances, turning to hatred. I won't give away the ending. I will only say that it is ridiculous. McEwan should read more Ian Banks to see how to develop clever but plausible twists to his endings. Failing that, just read a couple of Agatha Christies.<br />There is a lot that is good in this novel. The characterisation of the two main protagonists is excellent, and the description of the creative process of a composer is marvellous, but this does not save the book. The story fails totally to engage.	2002-03-01
US	50253662	R4W7Z3YOIJNQY	0451165640	469835489	Lair	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An enjoyable follow up to The Rats	If you liked The Rats, then you will like this one, as it is more of the same, except this time the rats are on the rampage in a forest just outside London. (This is the second part of a trilogy, although the books can be read separately.)  No-one does this quite like Herbert: The action is taut, the description is vivid, and the story is gripping. If the characterisation is a little one dimensional and the story a bit predictable, it doesn't ruin the enjoyment of the book. Come to it with average expectations and enjoy. Not his best but a good one nevertheless.	2002-02-16
US	50253662	R1DVRKJLRAANAF	0771040687	907672442	Creed	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Readable and entertaining	The hero of this book, Joe Creed, is a sleezebag paparazzo, which is the singular noun for paparazzi. He has few positive attributes. He would do anything to get a good photograph so that he can sell it to the newspapers. He has an ex-wife whom he hates. He even hates his young son. This unendearing character holds our attention because of his complete lack of scruples. What makes this book so satisfying is that, despite himself, he does the decent thing, and at the end of the book, he becomes it's hero. It even has the corps of the paparazzi charging to the rescue like the calvary, which has got to be one of the cleverest twists I have ever read. The book is genuinely frightening. If the end doesn't quite resolve itself satisfactory, then the rest of the book succeeds in carrying you effortlessly from one page to the next.	2002-02-06
US	50253662	RDPUTCC42RDZ2	0316854077	393191488	Kings of Albion	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A disappointment after The Last English King	This book has much to recommend it. It is vivid, alive with the smells and sights of 15th Century England. The story has shifting points of view by having different narrators, and this is handled with skill by Rathbone. By having the main narrator, Ali, an Arab, who travels the Middle and Far East, it puts English History into a World History Context. <br />Conversely, I found myself getting confused by the events. Who was fighting who and that sort of thing. Now I know with the War of the Roses, it is difficult to differentiate between the two sides, but I would have thought it was the novelist's job to do just this for us. Towards the end of the book, I had stopped caring about either the characters or the plot. There is also too much description of people. A brief descripton suffices. \\"She was tall, with beautiful brown eyes and olive skin\\" is all you need to say about someone. A paragraph spent describing someone's looks is a paragraph wasted. Too much description and the resulting image is that of a grotesque freak. <br />This is such a disappointment after The Last English King, which is so superior.	2002-02-06
US	50253662	R14GEM3SVN6JJL	0679750185	147498198	The Cement Garden	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A  20th Century classic	A perverse but enchanting book; beautifully written and perfectly constructed. This is a story about a family of children who find themselves orphaned while living in a house surrounded by a wasteland, an image that perfectly reflects the emptiness of their days. Finding themselves without adult guidance, it shows how they slide into sloth and then perversity. Being a writer of consumate skill and a gifted story-teller, McEwan describes this without purple prose but with a sharp eye on human nature. Despite the shocking nature of the story, it has a realistic feel to it - One feels that these events could happen given the circumstances. The characters are delinated so convincingly that the reader, despite the perverse nature of the protaganists actions, is drawn into their dark world and is made to see it from their point of view. A modern classic.	2002-02-03
US	50253662	R1PO6V5191B9Q4	0399133658	390039600	Sepulchre	Books	1	2	3	N	N	The only horror here is the bad writing	When you consider how good Herbert can be: Haunted, The Magic Cottage, Moon - this book is a real disappointment. The story begins quite well but starts to drag halfway through, so that by the time you reach the denouement, you are beyond caring. Part of the problem lies with the characterisation, which is wooden and lifeless. The characters are archetypes, never individuals, and so you care neither one way nor the other about them... Herbert's descriptive powers seem to have deserted him. The house of Neath never vividly comes to life. It is like a set on an empty film lot. Yet, the house is central to the story. The horror, despite its gaudiness (which is a lamentable feature of most of Herbert's works), never really horrifies, which for a horror book, is pretty damning. When Herbert writes well, he writes very well: When he writes badly, he writes books like Sepulchre.	2002-02-03
US	50253662	R1WGJK7VK2FE1I	1853261785	138595249	Life's Little Ironies (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The finest writer of the 19th Century	Many people consider Thomas Hardy to be a great novelist and poet; but he is equally a great story writer. These are 19th Century stories; so they do not start in the middle and expect the reader to infer what the author leaves out; they are are not pared to the bone. They start at the beginning, describing vividly the setting of the place and the history of the leading characters, and build up to a proper conclusion. Without trying to derogate 20th Century writers like Hemmingway, these stories are all the better for it. They could have been easily extended to fully blown novels. They have all the touches that one expects from Hardy: vivid decription of Wessex, tragedy untouched by sentimentality; a solid style with touches of literary genius; and a perceptive understanding of the relationship between men and women, people and their environment, and a keen understanding of rustic life just before it was swept away by the arrival of the radio, the telephone, the motor vehicle, electricity and other aspects of modernity. If you love Jude or Tess, read this book. As soon as I had finished it, I hunted down his other short story collections, Wessex Tales, etc., which are just as good.	2002-02-03
US	50253662	R31CAQSLMP0DZC	0747531633	143653358	Alexis Korner: The Biography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Father of British Rock	I first came across the name of Alexis Korner in the late 70s. I was in my teens, and I had already been turned onto American blues music by the likes of Eric Clapton, Van Morrison and the Rolling Stones. When I stumbled across Alexis Korner's Blues & Soul Show on British radio, the blues was not a revelation. The revelation lay in the richness of the blues; how it was not just a guitar based music from Chicago, but embraced many different varieties of the form: The Delta Blues singers, boogie-woogie, free-form jazz, folk blues, work and prison songs. Rock was just one variant. The programme was an eye-opener. It was Korner who first introduced me to the music of Charles Mingus and Muddy Waters, who first made me see a direct connection between the traditional music of Burundi and the avant-garde jazz of Oliver Lake. The richness and diversity of the blues, and black music generally, was opened to me by listening to this show. The man's knowledge of his subject was inexhaustible. I felt drawn to his passion and commitment. I had no idea he was a musician until I came across a re-released EP he recorded with Davy Graham called 3/4 AD. (This is on a CD called 'The Guitar Player...plus' by Davy Graham, currently available from Amazon.) This acoustic duet remains Korner's most satisfying piece, mainly due to Davy Graham. Korner was a limited musician, but his importance lies in his knowledge and love of the blues that he disseminated through his broadcasts, journalism and playing. He was a generous man, always ready to give someone a helping hand and encouragement, and never became jealous of their success. <br />This highly readable book captures the essence of this interesting man. It also describes the burgeoning blues scene in the UK that Korner helped foster. The only criticisms I have of the book is that we never find out what Korner thought of how rock music was developing throughout the 60s and 70s. Afterall, rock developed from the blues which he championed andpioneered in Britain from the 50s onwards. Korner, who had worked with Robert Plant, could not have been happy with the way that Led Zeppelin was treating the blues. Ofcourse, Harry Shapiro may simply not know what Korner thought, but it is a question that should have been asked. Korner's importance to the British blues boom is well documented here, along with the people he encouraged and helped, including Plant, Eric Burden, the Stones, and many more. Whenever I remember Alexis Korner, it is always as a great broadcaster, opening the ears of his British listeners to the rich variety of sounds that form the basis of so much modern music.	2002-02-03
US	50253662	R157U4BWD7XW7K	0451185641	482588104	Fluke: Tie In Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An unusual and satisfying book, maybe Herbert's best.	This is a surprise. With Herbert, you usually got a gore-fest, and when I started reading this book about a man who finds himself in a dog's body, I imagined there would be lurid descriptions of dogs ripping apart other living things, probably humans. Far from it. This book is as cleverly written and as skilfully told as anything by Richard Matheson or Jonathan Aycliffe, and I do not make such comparisons lightly. `Fluke' describes the dog's (told in the first person-or should that be in the first dog?) quest to discover his previous humanness. It is a journey both of discovery and self-awareness. Herbert vividly describes what it (probably) feels like to be a dog, capturing the world of smells and canine desires; and the lingering sense of his previous humanity that propels him to discover who he was before he became a dog. The ending is moving without being sentimental. An unusual and satisfying book and one that I can fully recommend.	2002-02-03
