US	50259745	R3ASQT51SN7NR1	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	5	4	47	N	N	LOVED IT, but for unintended reasons...	So the author decides to get a bunch of pictures together from the 1950's of different foods.  And of course, as is 'trendy', he has to make fun of all of them.  NOTHING is good, everything has a joke attached.  I would bet that this author waxes poetically about today's fare-such as a 2 oz piece of salmon on a white plate with a piece of parsley on one side, a lemon wedge on the other side, and something drizzled across it in the shape of an s.  Our 'zen-like' foods of today are pretty funny too.  Or maybe not.    It isn't AT ALL funny when your food server with spiked lime green and red hair, and enough metal piercings to make a good start building a 747 walks up to you with a piece of burned, oops, blackened fish, and some tasteless rice with some nuts in it, and a salad with lemon juice and olive oil on it, puts it down on the table and collects $12.95.  That's not funny....Is it?  Sorry, I should quit laughing.    So why five stars?  I LOVED the book even though the text was horrible.  But I loved it for all the reasons that this author would never understand.	2005-09-20
US	50259745	R1OWL5C61TF6T4	0892749431	835449469	Heaven: Close Encounters of the God Kind	Books	1	10	42	N	N	YELL BROTHERS AND SISTERS!!!!	That's what God wants you to do!  Watch as Duplantis struts back and forth on the stage with his catchy, trite little sayings while saying that he is believing God for this \\"intercontinental piece of a equipment!\\" (A lear jet)  Then watch as the people he touches begin, eyes rolling back in their head, falling to the ground in hysterics.  GO JESSE GO!!  Louder! Faster! \\"Are y'all listenin to ol Jesse? Somebody shout an Amen!\\" GLOW-RY to gawd!!!  Just a good ol Louisiana boy preaching that old time religion and raking the money in with both hands.  Just keep on a-yellin' Jesse and maybe they won't notice.  Hallelujah...yeah.	2005-08-22
US	50259745	R16OYGV5ZNX7HU	1591852374	274596620	The Seven Secrets: Unlocking Genuine Greatness	Books	1	20	54	N	N	Do people REALLY believe this sort of stuff?	I am amazed after finishing this book that there are people who will REALLY believe this.  I live in the town where John Hagee has his Cornerstone church, and on religious cable you will see him ranting, wailing, thundering, screaming and pointing and snapping his fingers-yelling about JEEEZZZZZZUUUSSSSS!!!  Is it any wonder that the non-believers look at this sort of silliness and say, \\"NO thank you\\"?  Hagee wants you to be afraid of God.  Be afraid for your eternal soul roasting in hell for all eternity.  Be afraid of the wrath of God.  For when you are afraid, you are far more easily controlled.  And when you are controlled, your wallet opens faster and you walk lockstep in the way 'Pastor' would have you go.    This book even reads like he is shouting and screaming.  Why would you need to shout to speak of God's love?  Why do you need to scream about the Prince of Peace?  The problem is that many people say, \\"Life is too tough-I've messed things up-and thinking is hard to do, so I'll let Pastor think for me.\\"  Healthy religion always points you back to yourself and after believing takes place, asks the question, how can I be more authentic?  How can I quit running from myself?  Jesus Christ has the answers to those questions.  Unfortunately, many who claim to speak in His name and for His sake, do so with abominable theology which says: Quit thinking-your thinking got you where you are, so quit trusting your mind and trust MY interpretation of life.  Before you know it you have sold yourself out wholesale to a cheap kind of religion that people wear like a g-string, while they bump and grind in your face all the while saying, \\"I KNOW THE WORD!!!\\"    The alternative?  Get quiet.  Learn what God is trying to say to you.  Stop running from yourself and get acquainted with a God who loves you more than you could ever imagine.  Don't halo your negativity and call it Christianity.  Think, feel, and live deeply.  The VERY last thing a person like John Hagee wants you to do is think for yourself.  Because when you believe in yourself, you are believing in the God who made you and revealed Himself through Jesus Christ.	2005-08-07
US	50259745	R276DB4Y83YU	0785263438	492107341	Safe in the Arms of God: Truth from Heaven About the Death of a Child	Books	2	7	65	N	N	Of COURSE they are in Heaven...	It seems to me that it was pretty unnecessary to write a book such as this.  Do people actually think that God would let a baby, a child, out of His loving care?  Of course not.  And as far as this age of accountability, I wish someone would show me in the Bible where there is a numerical age for this?      Some Christians have taken the universal, all-encompassing, unlimited love of God and said, \\"Wait, we know best because we know the word and God help anyone who disagrees with us!\\"  So short answer:  Yes, of course the little ones are safe in their Heavenly Father's arms, and yes of course, they will be reunited again.      In fact there are some people, (believe it or not) who say that God will eventually reconcile EVERY human being to Himself.  Because unlike the nebulous \\"age of accountability\\", I DO have a scripture to support this truth:  Christ is the Savior of ALL people, especially those who believe.  Doesn't say a few or some or the elect, no-it says all.    So we are left with a choice.  We can either love God or we can fear God but we can't do both.  Perfect love casts out all fear.  There IS no more perfect love than God's.	2005-07-29
US	50259745	R326HFLCD2EHW7	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	1	28	66	N	N	Self-hatred, Self-rejection, Self-loathing.	I guess I come at this from a different standpoint and one that is healthier.  First I am not a member of of one of these fundamentalist sects that take one or two Bible verses and say \\"SEE, GOTCHA!\\"  I have noticed that the more rigid the religion/sect, the more sexual problems occur.  Why?  The more forbidden you make the fruit, the more seductive and tasty it will be.  Churches that are literalistic and very right-leaning spend years trying to instill guilt and shame in their members about sex.  They concentrate on making you guilty over every fleeting thought, every bit of desire, until they work people up into a frenzy and, of course, they act on it.    Far better it would be if these folks emphasized the fact that we are all born sexual creatures.  Moreover, we came equipped with certain desires, which, like all gifts of God are good.  And like all gifts of God, can be misused.  But do these pastors concentrate on any other natural desires run amok?  Do they spend as much time speaking about over-eating, over-drinking, over-gambling, over-working, or any one of the more \\"acceptable\\" addictions: i.e. religion, spirituality?  Of course, not.    This author even talks about the normal part of adolescence that all humans go through as something evil and reprehensible. The end result is self-rejection, and self-loathing.  It is also important to note that not every person is going to be a sex maniac just because they have certain thoughts.  I am well aware that we live in a sex-saturated society and thus, a measure of self-control is necessary to keep from destroying yourself.  Just as self-control is necessary in all the appetites.  But I, as a member of a traditional denomination, am not ready to cede sexuality to the religious right.  I do not need, nor do I want their brand of counsel or rules.  They want you to hate yourself, your flesh, this world, and pleasure.  Why?  God GAVE us ourselves and that includes our bodies.  Don't let the zealots, who in the nameof Christ, tell you to hate yourself.  Conversely, don't allow this society with its emphasis on \\"throw away\\" people and relationships coarsen you.    It would be better to tell someone who is struggling with sexual issues, \\"Join the human race!\\"  How utterly ridiculous we become when we set ourselves up as the arbiters of everyone else's behavior and act as though God has a great big marker just ready to cross your name off if you misstep. As usual, the answer lies in the middle; Not in the hysterical paranoia in the pages of this book, nor in the libertine who doesn't give a damn who they hurt.      Bottom line:  Accept yourself. Know that your sexuality is very much like the electricity in your home.  If you misuse it it can kill you. If you use it correctly it greatly enhances your life.  But you don't have to stare at the switch all the time, obssessing and worrying over it.  Just use your common sense.  And leave all the nuttiness in this book to those whose aim it is to make you feel guilty for even daring to have been born.    The way you learn is by living your life, and you live the best life when you think for yourself. And when you think for yourself, you take power away from the Stephen Arterburns of this world.	2005-05-31
US	50259745	R2NODSYHIKK6F7	0812992113	903667833	My Turn: The Memoirs of Nancy Reagan	Books	4	14	18	N	N	This Lady's A Class Act!	It's been awhile since I read this book, but being that I am an admirer of Nancy Reagan's, I didn't mind reading it again.   <br /> <br />The main thing that strikes you throughout this book is her strength, sensitivity, and love for her husband.  She brought a level of dignity and class to the White House and as subsequent events have proven, she maintained it beautifully long after she was out of the limelight.  The way she cared for her husband throughout his long illness showed a devotion that we aren't used to seeing in marriages, especially very public ones. <br /> <br />Even though this book is a few years old, you will learn much about the wonderful lady.  If you are a fan of hers or just curious, there is much in this book that is enlightening and entertaining.	2004-11-05
US	50259745	R3PGB22U6SM0QI	0867195657	335303624	Going Home to the Fifties	Books	5	72	85	N	N	At Long Last...	a book that celebrates that wonderful decade known as the 1950's and does so without irreverance, parody, or sarcasm. I came across the wonderful gem of a book quite by accident.  For years, I had wished that someone would write a book that highlighted this time in American history and Bill Yenne does a SUPERB job.<br />Not only is the text informative, but the wonderful pictures and illustrations, along with real advertisements, make this book a must-have for the serious afficianado.  Unfortunately, you can find books out there about the fifties, but they are written by those who want to make fun of that time and use intellectual sophistication to castigate this era in America.  How do I know it was such a good time?<br />Well, I don't recall high school students shooting and knifing other students.  Teen pregnancy numbers were quite low, movies had a point to them, drug abuse wasn't rampant, and some things were still honored and revered, such as church, country, and family.  (No, I am not a Falwell/Robetrtson/Dobson right-wing fundamentalist.) But I am a moderate and I guess one of the many things I love about that time was its moderation and its optimism.<br />Here we were right after a world war, eager to achieve and enjoy the promise of America and full of boundless optimism about our future.  President Eisenhower led with a fatherly hand, and people grew and flourished.  The malcontent and sociopath were the exception rather than what seems like the rule today.  People seemed to have some reference to the whole rather than just an apathetic, &quot;I don't give a damn&quot; attitude.  There were no violent gangsta rap songs flooding the airwaves with hate, and wonder of wonders, the music was really good-now considered classic.  <br />Yes, those halcyon days are gone now and we've &quot;grown up.&quot;  Just about anything goes and you don't have to look very far to find a social or psychic cesspool to wallow in.  Being born in the late fifties, I know that mygeneration is the last to have enjoyed the fruitage of that great decade.  But for a time, it was ours and it was sparkling, and it was the real deal.<br />So get this book and spend an afternoon savoring each delicious memory and picture.  You can't help but feel better after you put the book down and in fact, will find yourself returning there again and again.	2004-07-11
US	50259745	R1QH3ON10D8DWH	0811835707	440949299	How to Be Popular: Everything You Need to Know, and More!	Books	3	13	14	N	N	It needed more &quot;meat&quot; but...	it was highly entertaining and quite nostalgic.  Most of us can smile as we look back through the timeline of the industry &quot;self-improvement.&quot;  This book is rather tongue-in-cheek, but what remains true is that we indeed ARE a nation of people who have believed in and practiced self-improvement of all kinds.<br />That spirit of &quot;can-do&quot; is uniquely American and timeless in its application.  Those who wrote the sort of books Ms. Trontz includes in this book knew that if the average person had a road map and some inspiration to go along with it, they could accomplish incredible things.<br />We may well laugh a little today when we see the old advertisements which said happiness is just a smile away, or a good shoe shine will give you confidence, or you can think your way to riches, but that doesn't diminish the fundamental, underlying truth that we humans are choice makers and as such we can determine our destinies to a great degree.  How we think ultimately determines the type of life we will experience.<br />I would have liked more text from the books Ms. Trontz included in, &quot;Yes, You Can!&quot;, but all in all it is a pretty entertaining walk down memory lane.  The illustrations are great.	2004-04-25
US	50259745	R327JY6GBLBNJI	0875522335	854815946	Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God	Books	1	14	73	N	N	No Filth of ANY Kind...	could be worse than this piece of obscenity utterly bereft of any type of merit.  To think that there are those who believe in a god who is just WAITING to cast his children into an eternal, everlasting, writhing, excruciating, pit of endless torment, is to think completely in contradiction to the message of Jesus Christ.<br />If Jesus Christ was God (and I believe He was) then why didn't he spend every waking moment of his life warning about this Father of His who was waiting to torture His children?  NOTHING else would have been as important-not healing the sick, forgiving sin, preaching the Sermon on the Mount, or feeding the multitudes as it would be to spend every living moment talking about the wrath to come.  Merciless, pitiless, cruel wrath.<br />In order to back up Edwards' diatribe, Jesus should have said, \\"My Father in heaven HATES you-every last one\\", \\"It is my Father's good pleasure to see his children twist and turn in agony in front of a grinning demon who smiles fiendishly as he lights another piece of brimstone.\\"  In other words, what would have been the point of the Gospels or the Good News?  What would have been the point of love?  What would have been the point of forgiveness?  What would have been the point of charity?  What indeed would have been the point of the Bible except to say \\"you're damned with an everlasting damnation?\\"<br />Scriptures such as \\"now abide these three things, faith, hope, and love, and the greatest of these is love.\\" would have been childishly naive. The greatest would have been punishment. The Bible would not have been God's \\"love letter\\" to us as some have called it, but a book that described such miseries as to make the Holocaust look tame in comparison.  That is if we are to believe in Edward's strange, disjointed, and schizophrenic ideas of God.<br />The more I think about Edwards and his theology the more I believe that he told us very, very little about God, but a whole lot about Johnathan Edwards.  He composed a sadistic, twisted piece of prose intended to scare people into believing in a petty, small, autocratic god, who, in the end, discarded people into a a huge fiery trash can full of infinite punishments for finite crimes; a god who would make Bin Laden, Hitler, Mussolini,and Stalin infinitely proud.<br />A god sort of like, well, Johnathan Edwards.sadistic, twisted piece of prose intended to scare people into believing in a petty, small, autocratic god, who, in the end, discarded people into a a huge fiery trash can full of infinite punishments for finite crimes; a god who would make Bin Laden, Hitler, Mussolini,and Stalin infinitely proud.<br />A god sort of like, well, Johnathan Edwards.	2004-04-25
US	50259745	R3OWK14KRCKJKL	006251704X	184327919	If Grace Is True: Why God Will Save Every Person	Books	5	27	34	N	N	A Resounding YES!!!	In this book, authors Phillip Gulley and James Mulholland have the courage to finally, at last, reveal the Good News.  I have long known it and felt it deeply in my soul as the \\"still, small voice that whispered the Truth\\", but here in black and white it is laid out:  God loves ALL of His creation and with a love that can never be overestimated.  The idea that God is there to work with you instead of waiting to \\"trip you up\\" is the message of real Grace.  Yet centuries of false teaching have left their mark on people, and still others have a vested interest in the things that would separate us, rather than unite us.  Fear is a potent weapon and many who claim to speak in God's name are quick to point out the \\"wrath of an angry god\\" for less than \\"divine\\" reasons: control, manipulation, greed, etc.<br />The sad truth is that many who call themselves \\"Christians\\" believed God would go from the \\"guttermost to the uttermost\\" to save His own, and then consign His children who didn't \\"measure up\\" to the eternal torture of fire and brimstone.  Yes, mercilessly tortured forever and ever with no means of escape.  That type of thinking pushed away many good people who needed the love and strength of God in their own lives.  And who could blame them? Fiery pits, merciless torment?  What kind of god does that sound like to you?  Makes Hitler and bin Laden look tame in comparison!<br />In this wonderful book you will learn that grace and mercy are the attributes of God, and that the ultimate sacrifice on the cross was the act of a God who said \\"I love you and you are mine, forever!\\"  Irresistible, infinite love is the true Good News of the gospel and it is time it is proclaimed from every church, synagogue, and temple in the world.  What dramatic change would happen within Christendom if we truly taught God's grace!<br />There is no way to read this book and come away unchanged. If you read one book of this type in your life, make it this one. Through a tender, yet steady logicyou come to see that all of mankind is loved and that love was demonstrated by these words: \\"Love God with all of your heart, soul and mind, and your neighbor as yourself-all the law and the prophets hang on these two commandments.\\" Matthew 22:40. That is the true \\"Good News.\\" Yes, truly, Grace doth abound.	2003-07-14
US	50259745	R3JAPDQGXUOH5	0965576000	86141915	Learning To Fly As A Nightingale	Books	3	3	3	N	N	It's Good, but......	there is so much more that could have been included.  There has never been an autobiography or even a biography of Earl Nightingale until this book.   Yes, it is a love story, but it is very heavy on the emphasis of the courtship and subsequent marriage of Earl and Diana.  <br />I would have liked to have read about more of the aspects of Earl Nightingale's life, especially throughout the early years.  After all, Earl Nightingale was a world class motivator beginning with his seminal and profound record, &quot;The Strangest Secret.&quot;  Prolific as a writer, thinker, speaker, and everyday philosopher, Earl's life was rich and varied.<br />In this book you get a few glimpses into the man, but that's the trouble: just a few.  I understand that it was written as a love story, but it would have been so much better with more about Earl.  <br />Still, there are some interesting things in this book and it is an easy read.  Ms. Nightingale writes well and you will be entertained.	2002-11-26
US	50259745	R1AYYSUSZFZJEL	0385502966	253012727	Zig: The Autiobiography of Zig Ziglar	Books	2	9	21	N	N	A Very Good Man...	no question-no doubt.  In fact, Zig Ziglar has helped so many people from all walks of life with his inspiring and homespun common sense.  So why only two stars?  It is the religion-heavy and I do mean HEAVY emphasis that weaves its way through all of his books and not just this one.<br />Over and over again you feel as if you are sitting in a fundamentalist Baptist church getting a sermon.  You begin to get the idea that if you do not subscribe to Ziglar's doctrinaire approach to evangelical Christianity, that you are not quite &quot;with it.&quot;  So rigid is his approach that he disavowed himself from the master-motivator, Napoleon Hill because he considered Hill's thoughts &quot;new age&quot; and therefore heretical.<br />In &quot;Confessions of a Happy Christian&quot;, he speaks about burning, (yes, literally burning) books that disagreed with his approach to religion.  In another place he refers to horoscopes as &quot;satan's daily bulletin.&quot;  Other &quot;works of satan&quot; include soap operas, most movies, eastern philosophies, and alcohol.  No room is left for any &quot;middle of the road&quot; interpretations.<br />Now I am no new-ager by any stretch of the imagination.  In fact, I believe most of that teaching to be a muddled and scattered approach with oftentimes hidden political agendas.  But I definitely DON'T believe that the loving God of the universe damns anyone to hell because they have a questing mind.  The road to God is an intensely personal one that is strictly between the person and their Creator.  Ziglar's fundamentalist god is a jealous, angry, damning, petulant entity.<BR>That god peppers the pages of the old testament with plagues on nomadic peoples and causes floods, fires, sandstorms, and the like.<br />Yet, there are many heartwarming parts of this autobiography and his stories about his younger days are very touching.  Just beware that you are going to get a very liberal amount of religious, (particularly Baptist) views in thepages of most any of his books including this one.	2002-11-01
US	50259745	R33P0NLR6TV4NR	0960638881	165779256	A Course in Miracles, Combined Volume: Text, Workbook for Students, Manual for Teachers, 2nd Edition	Books	1	51	84	N	N	I Wish I Could Give It	one and one-half stars because it is in reality just a little better than one star.  This mammoth treatise is just about one of the most confusing and impractical things I have ever read.  The one good thing about it is that it urges the reader to be done once and for all with the idea of a vengeful, angry god.  It also states (appropriately in my view) that behind most negativity is fear and a call for love.  Yet that could have been said in one page.  Another problem is that the course never truly explains the concept of evil in any meaningful way.  Oh, I know that it says evil is an illusion, having no true reality, but one look at Adolph Hitler, Osama Bin Laden and 9-11, and you are forced to deal with this \\"illusion.\\"<br />The reading of this book is akin to the feeling one gets after eating cotton candy-for a moment it is there and very sweet, and then in an instant it is gone because there is no true substance to it...	2002-07-17
US	50259745	R1D6U1POAQ17PT	1893984001	379606853	Earl Nightingale's The Strangest Secret Millennium 2000 Gold Record Recording	Books	5	37	40	N	N	This was Earl Nightingale's gift to the world...	in 1956.  I have enjoyed and used its message so much that I own not only the modern versions of it, but an old 33 1/3 wax LP.  This is not a particularly long recording, in fact, you can hear in in about 30 minutes.  But it can take repeated reading/listening to get the totality of the message.<br />Earl Nightingale spent years researching what every wise man, woman, sage, teacher, philosopher, and guru ever wrote or spoke regarding the conduct of life.  The result?  The one thread that ties together these oftentimes divergent voices over many different times and places.  The &quot;secret&quot; reveals the one thing upon which these people were in total agreement.<br />It is the essence of life-a truism that surpasses all others in its importance and ultimate truth.  I won't divulge it here, because it is something that every man and woman should uncover for themselves.  But I can say from quite personal experience that once you hear or read it for yourself, you will never be the same again.	2002-05-09
US	50259745	R174ICTP0YDS3H	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THIS LITERALLY SINGS OFF THE PAGES...	Ayn Rand wrote this little masterpiece and I don't believe that it ever got the credit it deserved.  After all, &quot;The Fountainhead&quot; and &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; have gotten most of the attention and of course, they are fabulous.<br />&quot;Anthem&quot; really has just two primary characters, a man and a woman who have live in a society where the individual has become meaningless and everything is geared toward the collective.  The book starts out with the description of a dreary, socialist-communist society where there is no more &quot;I&quot;, only &quot;We&quot;.  As the plot moves forward we find the hero of the story becoming more and more interested in his own &quot;personal find&quot; buried deep in the bowels of what used to be a thriving, capatilistic society.  He also meets a woman whom he is attracted to-one like him with the seeds of individualism inside her.  They begin a long and wonderful process of getting to know themselves and each other.<br />This is another story of man as an heroic being who rises above the group to claim his own selfhood a bestows the greatest gift he can to another:  his love and his deeply held belief in the right of a man (or woman) to exist for their own sake.  You will love this book.	2002-04-04
US	50259745	RU3JGHNQ11MQL	0743223306	701397757	More, Now, Again: A Memoir of Addiction	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Shallow and Stupid...	both for the contents of the book and the author.  It could have been a contender, though.  The basic skeletal structure was there for an interesting and maybe informative read.  As for Ms. Wurtzel?  Ayn Rand, she ain't.	2002-02-22
US	50259745	RN6EDBVOOOI69	0451407636	260255103	Mockery of Justice: The True Story of the Sam Sheppard Murder Case	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Pretty Good Account...	of a fascinating case from the 1950's.  The authors go over a lot of ground that has already been covered.  But they also present compelling evidence pointing to a man that heretofore was only on the sidelines in this investigation.  The book goes into deep detail about this new suspect and produces almost incontrivertible evidence that he was indeed Marilyn Sheppard's killer.    Since the crime happened in the mid' 1950's there was not the DNA and Forensic capabilities there are now.  Had there been, Sam Sheppard would very probably not have spent better than ten years in prison for a crime he didn't commit.  The book details the intriguing tragedy of the whole of Sheppard's life.  If you follow the case, there is not a lot here you don't already know, but the best part is the revelation of the almost certain perpetrator.	2002-02-10
US	50259745	R26FN9NXGH3MOT	0965857409	39246137	An Encounter with a Prophet: A Story & A Spiritual Manual	Books	5	81	86	N	N	The Message The Whole World Needs To Hear...	There are a lot of people who from their youth have been told about the wrath of an angry God.  You hear such things from the mouths of certain fundamentalist preachers and ministers who seem determined to scare you.  Phrases like \\"the wrath of God\\", \\"an everlasting lake of fire\\", \\"the final judgement\\", etc. make otherwise good and caring people shy away from religious/spiritual quests.<br /><br />In this book, Clyde Lewis comes from a quite solid premise in attempting to understand the ancient writers of scripture and their limitations in a very old world.  He successfully debunks many of the myths surrounding God with a simple question: \\"What would you send your child to hell for?\\"  Coming from that place we begin to see the difficult juxtaposition of a God of unconditional love and a place of eternal torment.<br /><br />There are many things the ancients believed now proven to be untrue. For example, we now know the earth isn't flat and the sun doesn't rotate around the earth.  At the time it was considered heresy by the church to question these \\"truths\\".  Today we know better.  Yet some people insist on an unquestioning, literal interpretation of the Bible as their only reference for life.  I've even heard some say that many things in the Bible troubled them, but they were scared not to believe it.  Scared!  Scared of God.  How incredibly dichotomous and sad!<br /><br />Plainly put the doctrine of eternal suffering and torment (hell) makes Adolph Hitler and Osama Bin Laden look like choir boys.  Thinking men and women of all ages are rightfully reticent to accept such dogma.  This book gently and lovingly explains how human beings with a finite grasp of reality have had so much trouble explaining the infinite.  As a result we bear the burden of outdated religious concepts.<br /><br />But this doesn't need to be!  WE can approach God and Truth with our hearts and minds free and unfettered of fear-based concepts.  This book clearly shows how to do just that.  If you have an open mind and heart and are questing and thirsting after knowledge you will receive it from the pages of this remarkable book.<br /><br />The book is built around the dialogue of two people with other characters added to underscore or show a truth of one kind or another.  You soon find yourself caught up in the middle of this book smiling and nodding your head as if you are hearing something that you have always known deep inside but have not been able to express in words.  Peace of mind, heart, and soul are in its covers.  You will never be the same after reading it.	2001-12-25
US	50259745	R1PEZUCTHNLF4B	0879752092	998920688	The Best of Robert Ingersoll: Selections from His Writings and Speeches	Books	4	36	39	N	N	A Book For Thinkers...	I have to admit that much of the fundamentalist, &quot;born-again&quot; Christian dogma leaves me cold.  I wince when I hear about the fire and brimstone of a god who would sentence one of his children to infinite punishment for a finite transgression.  So did Robert G. Ingersoll.<br />In fact, Ingersoll spent the better part of his life urging the rejection of a god who hurls thunderbolts and and seeks bloody sacrifices as atonements for man's &quot;depravity.&quot;  In this book you will find challenging essays that will prompt you to think about your religious/spiritual assumptions.  Some folks said that Ingersoll was an atheist or at least an agnostic, but I'm not sure that is true.  I believe that he definitely rejected the religious superstitions of a jealous/angry/vengeful god.<br />But I also believe that a man can't write as did Ingersoll if he is not touched by something beyond himself; something that whispers through the organized mass of rage that sometimes passes itself off as Christianity.  One of my most favorite sayings of Ingersoll is &quot;Around the cross of immortality, fundamentalist Christianity has coiled a serpent called hell.&quot;  <br />If you are not afraid to think and be exposed to new ideas, then you will find yourself pondering this book long after you have finished reading it.  If I could sum up Ingersoll's main thrust down through the years it would be, &quot;fear not.&quot;  Perhaps there are no more important words than those.	2001-12-20
US	50259745	R2KJC9L3XSNG6R	0345412931	518276030	Feel This Book: An Essential Guide to Self-Empowerment, Spiritual Supremacy, and Sexual Satisfaction	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Pretty Silly Stuff...	The one thing you can count on with some &quot;celebrities&quot; is that they are going to think they are so verrrry much cuter than they really are.  Almost everything they say is tongue-in-cheek satire and you begin to feel that they are having a great big private joke at your expense.<br />With so many books out there truly worth reading and owning, it is a shame to throw your money away on this.  But if you truly have to have it, wait a while...You will find it at some garage sale for 50 cents.  Much ado about nothing.	2001-11-22
US	50259745	RMESP2UG5KQSC	1565630882	162670839	When Prayers Are Not Answered: Finding Peace When God Seems Silent	Books	2	6	7	N	N	What is this author trying to say?	The text of this book is rather prosaic.  I kept hoping I would come to that &quot;aha&quot; moment where the book would coalesce into one cohesive piece.  Instead, it was just a rambling stream-of-conciousness type of work that came across as pretty sterile.  In fact in one part it was downright insensitive as the author explains sitting in a Catholic mass where a woman faints and the mass goes on without missing a beat.  Is that what faith is about?  To be so self-righteously pious that the distress of our neighbors fails to move us?  <br />This kind of robotic christianity devoid of human touches and concerns is not what is needed today.  A vibrant, growing faith which recognizes human needs in all their many divergent aspects is the clarion call, especially for times such as these.    <br />The author's earlier work, &quot;A Wide Place For My Steps&quot; was pretty much the same way.  You don't feel as if you're getting anything substantive and you soon find yourself asking &quot;..where's the beef?&quot;  Vital Christianity must and should address the person at the point of their need forsaking &quot;nicey-nice&quot; platitudes and stained glass rhetoric.<br />Somewhere, someplace, someone's heart is breaking: a marriage is close to divorce, a young life is ravaged by drug abuse, a lonely man sits in a hotel room living what Thoreau called &quot;a life of quiet despair&quot; wondering what's the use of it all.  Books of this sort can make a difference in a life.  Unfortunately this one misses the mark by far.	2001-11-11
US	50259745	R1ZRQWPU5Z0W76	0762410582	139495136	I Love Lucy: The Official 50th Anniversary Tribute	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Full Of Interesting Stuff For All Lucy Fans!!!	Ok I admit it, I am a die-hard fan of &quot;I Love Lucy&quot;.  Over the years I have read just about every book written about the actors and the show and this one is the best.  There are interesting biographies and &quot;behind the scenes&quot; stuff and then a page devoted to EVERY episode of the show.  <br />Many pictures, trivia questions, and all kinds of fun stuff await the reader that makes this a must-have for any loyal Lucy fan.  What makes this book different is the meticulous research into every episode both in front of and behind the camera.  You'll feel almost as good after reading this as if you had seen an actual episode of the show-almost.  Because nothing beats hearing the Ricardos and the Mertzes planning their schemes and having their fun at 323 E. 68th Street.<br />If you don't like this book, well.....&quot;You've definetly got some splainin' to do!&quot;	2001-10-10
US	50259745	R41NZ5INWCVXO	0785809171	774813730	The Cadillac Century	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I LOVED THIS!!!	If you are like me and have a long standing love affair with the world's best and most beautiful car, the Cadillac, then this is a must-have book for you.  The text is full and rich without being a recitation of statistics and the pictures of the different models over the years are superb.<br />I don't know how anyone can look at this book and not agree that these are the most beautiful cars ever made.  From the LaSalle of old, to the Fleetwood Sixty Special of the '50's to the Brougham d'Elegance of the 80's and 90's, it's all here!  No way can you be disappointed with this one.	2001-10-10
US	50259745	R1JGHQ4JJ51ENO	0671733354	132993260	How to Stop Worrying and Start Living	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great Book!	This book is loaded with common sense, which unfortunately today is such an uncommon thing. If you read this book in its entirety, then read it again and again, you will come to see that you have choices in every moment that you can use to make yourself happy or miserable.  It's just that simple.  But simple doesn't mean easy-you have to practice over and over again because long held ways of thinking and behaving don't yield to change overnight.  Using notable luminaries and average folks, Dale Carnegie doesn't take off on some grand flight of fancy into vague esotericism, but stays wonderfully grounded in offering the tools to a better way of life.  In fact, a very well known psychiatrist told me that if he could have his patients read one book, it would be this one.<br /><br />Especially helpful is the advice to live in \\"day-tight compartments\\" and to challenge yourself to accept the worst while preparing to make the best out of any difficulty you may encounter. Also, his idea of religion/spirituality the healthiest I have ever read.  He says he has no interest in the creeds that separate people from each other, but has come to appreciate speaking with God simply as something wonderful he can do for himself that yields practical results. Just as fresh water, air, and rest benefit the body, so does a healthy spirituality benefit the mind and soul.  At the end of the book are testimonials from all types of people on how they banished worry from their lives and truly began to live again.  This book is inspiring, informative, motivational, and comforting.  If you read this with an open mind, you will realize that there is really never anything to \\"worry about\\" and you will be in command of that most precious of gifts we humans are given: the power of the mind and will to live life in a self-determined way.  This is THE classic and if properly appreciated and understood will change your life forever.  Quite simply, the best of its kind. Ever!	2000-12-21
US	50259745	R2STMDZ974UJEN	1879198266	713918203	The Other Side of Ethel Mertz: The Life Story of Vivian Vance	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Lots Of Interesting Info...	on the lady who played Ethel Mertz in the classic &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; television series.  One of the things I found most interesting was the passion this lady had for life and her profession.  Also covered is the nervous breakdown she endured and the well documented feud between her and co-star William Frawley.  This is a special glimpse at one of the best character actors we have ever had.  As an added bonus, there are many rare photographs in this book.  This is a must for any fan of &quot;I Love Lucy.&quot;	2000-12-21
US	50259745	R349B20Z2KZ8KP	0805420215	213136113	Going for the Max!: 12 Principles for Living Life to the Fullest	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Authentic Hero...	has written one of the best motivational books I have ever read.  After reading &quot;Strong At The Broken Places&quot; by the same author, I found myself wondering how he found the will and strength to persevere despite great odds.  I found the answer in this book.<br />Within these pages are nuggets of gold for the mind and soul.  Whatever is troubling you or whatever your problem, you are sure to find something in this book that will hit a nerve.  Max Cleland's life is an absolute tribute to the indomitable power of the spirit in mankind.  Quite simply this is a remarkable book by a remarkable man.	2000-11-18
US	50259745	R2GZ6GOQN07U5G	0671652508	644023380	Light from Many Lamps: A Treasury of Inspiration	Books	5	12	14	N	N	This Book Belongs...	on the bedside tables of every person.  When I first read it, I was feeling pretty down but found my spirits lifting with every turn of a page.  Especially helpful are the chapters about Harold Russell who lost the use of his hands, but gained in strength and fortitude and Mary Pickford who writes so well about the possibilities of beginning again after failure and setback.  I could go on giving example after example of the wonderful inspiration that awaits anyone who reads this book.  It's the type of book you can read just a few pages from and get just what you need.  You can't go wrong buying this book.	2000-10-05
US	50259745	RVNMECQZF7DR2	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	96	100	N	N	Larry Elder Let The Common Sense Genie Out Of The Bottle!	Larry Elder is not called the &quot;sage of south central&quot; for nothing.  If every American would open their minds instead of letting media and political bias sway their decisions we would have a new country inside of a month. In this book, Larry Elder shows in a very convincing and forthright way that although we live in the the country with the most freedom, we are relying more and more on a government which has no interest at all in seeing us free, and in many cases, seeks to enslave us and make us dependent.<br />This book is a real eye-opener and will have you thinking hard for some time after you read it.  Some parts, particularly the chapter on legalization of drugs and how our &quot;drug war&quot; has failed will surely raise controversy and that is a good thing.  Americans need to think and rethink their positions on issues instead of allowing those with their own vested interests to make up their minds for them.  <br />If you believe that you can run your own life and affairs and that the money you make should remain in your own hands and that it is arrogance in the least and tyranny in the most for a government to tell you otherwise or make decisions about your life without your consent, then this book is for you. Larry Elder presents the evidence that we as Americans have been duped and conned into believing things that just aren't true.<br />This is a book well worth the money and you can't walk away from it without being challenged, enlightened, and informed.	2000-10-02
US	50259745	R1RFTNESMN6XKL	0670871516	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	2	32	67	N	N	Preisdent Nixon's Enemies Are Fascinated With Him...	It's like they just can't get enough of who they SAY they hate. I think  deep down inside a lot of the \\"Nixon-haters\\" abides at least a  grudging respect for his presidency.  Unfortunately it is remembered for  Watergate and that's a shame because when you look closely at his record,  (i.e., normalization of relations bewteen the U.S. and the Soviet Union and  China, as well as the economic and military policies which he authored, you  see a portrait of his presidency that show great successes. Yes, he made  some mistakes but who of us hasn't?    This book disturbed me because it  opened the most private parts of Nixon's life and held them up to a morbid  voyeurism with no real clear aim or purpose.  I am open to reading both  sides but I began to feel as I read this the way I might if I was opening  up someone's diary or going through their closet without their knowlege;   It just isn't right.     Yet, the book is well-written and the sources  clearly defined.  You won't find a lot of new things here and outside of  making a buck, I am curious as to why the author took the time and effort  to attempt to further embarrass a family who would probably like to be left  alone.    And the Lord said, \\"He who is without sin, let him cast the first stone....\\"	2000-08-29
US	50259745	R1C54WK76W9OGE	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Now here's a book...	that was better than the movie in every way.  I first read this book in 1989 and it was an absolute page-turner from the very beginning.  As the story unfolded we found out about a writer in serious pain after crashing  his car somewhere in Colorado, a nurse who took him in who seemed quite  competent except for one thing-it soon became very obvious that she was  absolutely crazy.  So good was King's description of his wounded  writer-held-prisoner that I as a reader almost began to feel what he was  feeling.  I had to keep putting the book down and reminding myself that  this was &quot;just a story.&quot;  <br />This one is terror and suspense all  the way and the many detours the story takes en-route to its dramatic  conclusion only add to the already richly engossing tale it is.  Buy this  one and be ready for one heck of a ride!  A word of warning: you will never  view chainsaws, lawnmowers, and birthday cakes in the same way.	2000-07-31
US	50259745	R24ALUVTDTOZV7	0380795302	622827907	Green Bay Replay	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great History Of A Great Team	As a die-hard Packer fan, I savored every minute of my team's return to glory in the mid 90's.  This book chronicles and highlights the long and often difficult road that the Pack traveled back to the top.  From the days  of Vince Lombardi to Mike Holmgren and all the time in between, Dick Schaap  has got the greatest team to ever step on a field well covered.  An  absolute must for any Green Bay Packer fan!	2000-06-20
US	50259745	RPPIA4MS2JOQR	0465090974	570727715	The Way We Never Were: American Families And The Nostalgia Trap	Books	1	44	184	N	N	Why does nostalgia bother this author?	This book is an attempt, albeit a feeble one, to take a gentler time in America and somehow demonize it by begging the question and nit-picking.  To say life was better in that time is to state an obvious truth and I  wonder why Ms. Coontz feels the need to somehow try and show us  that today  we are &quot;so much better off.&quot;  Drug abuse, kids killing and having  kids, abortions, teen suicide, are the order of our day today.  At least in  the 1950's most folks had some reference to the whole.  Now it seems we  don't care who we hurt as long as we get what we want and get it  NOW.<br />There is no use trying to elevate today by tearing down yesterday.  The plain truth is that the 1950's were in many ways a better time no  matter how this author wants to twist statistics and figures and I bet that  way down deep beyond the pseudo-intellectual, politically correct veneer,  the author knows it was too.	2000-06-10
US	50259745	R3NW5K0AK74STD	0446525227	831776697	Lightposts for Living: The Art of Choosing a Joyful Life	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Simply Beautiful...	When something is beautiful and lovely and full of Americana at its best, there are bound to be detractors. They scoff at this work, call it names, and talk in intellectually superior tones about the qualities this type of  art supposedly lacks.  But there is something in the sensitive soul that  resonates to the words and pictures of this wonderful artist.  Whether it  is the beautiful simplicity of his paintings or his suggestions for a more  beautiful and meaningful life, this book will touch a place inside of you  that always knows that our true nature longs for the type of life that this  book encourages.  <br />Sure, some folks will dismiss the sentiments and  ideals in this book because they have allowed jaded and negative views to  dominate their minds and finally their souls and then called it  &quot;intellectualism.&quot;  If your mind is open; better yet your heart,  you will find in this book nourishment for your soul.  Very highly  reccomended!	2000-05-14
US	50259745	R30S93K5ZDILD1	0399142789	916454618	Conversations with God: An Uncommon Dialogue, Book 1	Books	2	6	10	N	N	More of the same....	I looked forward to reading Walsch's book, and I came away somewhat dissappointed.  This is just the &quot;Course In Miracles&quot; stuff repackaged.  Instead of something refreshingly different, the author  decides to talk about *yawn&quot; the big bad ego, and how we ask for  everything we get in this life.  I have often wondered if we &quot;get what  we deserve&quot; karmically, then why punish the thief or mugger?  After  all, he was just giving us our &quot;karma.&quot; In another of the  author's books, he speaks of how &quot;wonderful&quot; DeGeneres and Heche  are for being so &quot;courageous.&quot;  After awhile it comes off like  any other left-wing treatise.  The one saving grace about this book is the  fact that the author found a peace that eluded him most of his life.  I  believe he was/is sincere, but you have probably read the same thing many  other places.	2000-05-11
US	50259745	R1S0W5GQNMD096	0873481402	201213691	Communist Manifesto	Books	1	28	91	N	N	Belongs in the trash can of history...	It is absolutely chilling to see people endorse this book or give it any praise.  That people should be screaming for enslavement and collectivism is beyond me.  Proud as I am to live in a free country, I do recognize that  censorship of this book would be a tacit agreement of the principles in the  book itself. The communistic thought and system died an ignomonious death  in the Soviet Union and it's demise was long overdue. Basically this primer  on slavery touts a dead political system.  Yet there are those among us, no  matter how few their number, who believe that their thinking and living  would best be done for them by a collectivist society, instead of by  themselves, and it is for that reason that all freedom loving men and women  jealously defend their right to freedom of thought. May the death of  communism be an oppurtunity for dancing and rejoicing in the street and may  this book be always be remembered as the centerpiece of the failed and  defeated political system it was.	2000-04-04
US	50259745	RC5N3TPGG0JOS	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A Magnificent Story Of  A Magnificent Man	This is the story of the struggle of an individual against the collective mindset that demands that all things be done for the good of society rather than the rewards and pleasure that the individual enjoys based on the  merits of his own work.  <br />The main character, Howard Roark, fights an  unending battle for the freedom to live and work according to the dictates  of his own conscience and integrity.  As the plot unfolds, questions are  asked that beg an answer from every thinking viewer. In American society  today, we are regimented, &quot;bell-curved&quot;, homogenized, and forced  to fit the demands and whims of those who consistently tell us &quot;egoism  is bad&quot;, &quot;selflessness is the only way to live&quot;, etc.<br />It  is refreshing to see this film's character state so eloquently that he  &quot;lives life for his own sake&quot; and that the existence of his ideas  are the sole domain of his own mind and not the property of others to take  as their own in the name of &quot;society's good.&quot;  <br />You can't come  away from this film not changed in one way or another.  Gary Cooper and  Patricia Neal play their parts to perfection.  This is a classic in every  sense of the word.  Don't take my word for it though, get it for yourself  and enjoy some true &quot;food for thought.&quot;	2000-02-26
