US	50267916	R6I2VYSAN2AC9	1879415313	477878694	An Explorer's Adventures In Tibet: An 1897 Epic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Present arms! ....  with a cricket stump	Landor's memoirs may be the pulp fiction of Victorian travel writing, but it doesn't come much better than this fast paced account of his quest to become the first white boy in Lhasa.  An Explorer's Adventures recounts his stiff-upper-lipped travels in Tweed across Himalayan mountain passes with a ragbag posse of helpers, lepers and bandits who often threatened to mutiny when faced by ugly women and men with long tongues.      There are inumerable tales of scrapes with local chiefs whose goals in life were to keep Johnny Foreigner out of Tibet with the promise of beheading if they didn't succeed.  How many of Landor's tales are true we'll never really know, particularly his miraculous escape from beheading, but it's a cracking read and another great glimpse into the minds of men from yesteryear.     A word of warning though.  Political correctos with no sense of humour or perspective should steer well clear.  This is blatant white man's burden stuff and only those willing to set their moral timepiece to London, 1897 will get anything out of this.      It goes without saying that fans of Hopkirk and Flashman should head straight for Checkout.  A hoot!	2005-08-19
US	50267916	R13R5SHZQ3FC29	0156839016	843855372	Southern Mail	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Sahara viewed from the wings of the stage	More soaring and gliding from aviation's greatest penseur.  Why we are all here, how our world looks from the sky and how things change as we mature are all examined in the lovely loquacious style that is St.Ex.  Another classic.	2005-05-22
US	50267916	R22VMDOLMHSJJI	0452280524	225550589	New Ideas from Dead Economists: An Introduction to Modern Economic Thought	Books	3	23	23	N	N	All the great men  - well almost	If you're after a rough outline of how economics got where it is today, and who the people behind the subject's founding ideas really were, then the Dead Economists is a great place to start.   Buchholz kicks things off with the invisible hands of Smith/Hayek, and then breezes through the lives and ideas of Malthus, Ricardo, Mill, Marx, Marshall, Veblen, Galbraith, Keynes and Friedman.  The final two chapters get broader and cover Public Choice and Rational Expectations.     Strange as it may seem, there's nothing really on Schumpeter, Frank Ramsey, Robert Solow, Joan Robinson, Irving Fisher or Robert Mundell to name but a few - although, I suppose, these individuals didn't really lead economics off in truly new directions.  But Nobel Prize winner Mundell was largely responsible for starting international economics as we know it.   It's odd that he's not even mentioned.    Still for non-specialists, there isn't that much theory and what there is comes in easy to understand sketches of where the big ideas came from and what these mean for the world we live in today.      Overall I liked the Dead Economists, although I can understand why some people might think it a bit light.  The author likes a joke.  Some readers don't.  It reads like pulp history.  Some don't like that.  My view is that if you already know your dismal science, then this is a nice, easy read and it gives lovely insights into the lives of economics' greatest thinkers. Alternatively, if you're a novice and you like a bit of history, then NIDE should suit your needs just fine.	2005-05-10
US	50267916	R13IWZD89EJL3E	0553816721	633955192	Gweilo: Memories of a Hong Kong Childhood	Books	5	29	30	N	N	And Who Are We Today Ken?	As a long-term Hongkong resident and sentimental fool, I'm almost bound to say that Gweilo and my adopted home are utter magic. Sadly, I live in London right now and, like me, those with a tendency to homesickness will probably read Gweilo and immediately want to get on the first Cathay flight home.       For Gweilo is a terrific story with intimate glimpses of Hongkong in the fifties seen through the eyes of a curious little boy called Martin and his ill-suited, warring parents.  It gets five stars just for the author's enviable ability to conjure up unforgettable images in a splendid pacy style.     `Memories of a Hong Kong Childhood' is only half memories though, with much of it reading like a novel.  Yet the plot is extremely simple; young boy and open-minded mother have the life-changing experience of leaving post-war Blighty for somewhere exotic while insecure, racist father does everything in his power to undermine their attempts to fit in with the locals and learn something new.       An eventful tug of war between cultures and enlightenment, it will undoubtedly invite empty-headed complaints from the usual suspects that these are the memories of a privileged set that lived in a world far above the toil and filth of the great unwashed.  But, as always, this would miss the point.  Gweilo is a celebration of life through the eyes of a little boy, unburdened by guilt or irony.      In fact, somewhat perversely, the book's only real weak point is Booth's revelling in Daddy-bashing.  Even though the tales of Pop's sycophantic attempts to ape the naval officers he would never become are hilarious, it is worth remembering that both mother and boy might never have had their opportunity were it not for Booth senior.  (Booth's description of his father dressing up as a naval officer, but without epaulets, is very funny).     Even so, Booth's memories shine with an exotic cast of characters that his parents possibly never knew about - in particular, his slipper-wielding pink gin Dad.  Along the way we meet triad gangsters, temple monks, opium smokers, soothing mama-sans, snake charmers, fortune tellers, tram drivers, scary dentists and whitey policemen barking out orders in Cantonese. There are household cooks who could make flans levitate, hotel gardeners with murder on their minds and an English naval officer who even liked Cantonese food (Ye gods!).     There are great little nuggets of colonial and Cantonese culture too; like the horrors of the Shek Kip Mei squatter fire & WW2 resistance, the colourful spectacle that is Cantonese opera and the fabulous beaches, mountains and nature trails that make up 60% of the territory.  The cast of characters in the employ of Mrs Booth are a lasting example of humanity at its best, even in the midst of appalling poverty.      Readers also learn why the Booths were responsible for laws which prohibit cars from turning in front of trams or why the lions outside HSBC in Queen's Road, Central are called Stewart and Stitt and how awful it must have been as a refugee after the Maoist coup d'etat in 1947.  There are splendid bits on the huff and puff of Typhoon season and all the madness that goes with it.  We're regaled with the festival of the ghosts where paper houses and bags of money are set alight for ancestors.  And we get glimpses into those never to be seen again expat `hygiene' days on Shek O beach, that magical haven on Hongkong island's southeast coast where my own wife-to-be finally said `yes' in the waves and the moonlight.     But for those who already know Hongkong well, a word of warning.  While Gweilo is written in a chatty, amusing style, you'll find your mind wandering as each new situation arises.  As I read, I became addicted to getting out the maps and trying to figure out where exactly young Martin had been that day.  Many of the experiences and destinations were as unfamiliar to me as they would be to a relative newcomer.      And in contrast to comments in some reviews, much of what Booth describes hasn't existed for a very long time. The hotels that the Booth's lived in disappeared long ago.  Boundary Street is notable only for Britain's shameful handover negotiations.  The Booth's apartment on Mount Austin lasted until 1998 when it was torn down and replaced with digs more in common with cramped modernity.  Rickshaws I've never seen, and the idea that a local might take stick from the white man is laughable.       Despite these distractions, though, I reckon that anyone with imagination will have booked their ticket long before they near the ending.  Gweilo may be more time capsule than travelogue, but the magical intensity and groovy weirdness live on, little changed from the days when Booth junior first set foot.     Summing up, Time magazine probably put it best when it said, ` ... this sunny, luminous memoir - along with the three forthcoming children's books the dying Booth also completed - will have to serve as his epitaph, ensuring that he will remain forever young'.      I couldn't agree more.    Rest in Peace Mr Booth.     Viva Hongkong!	2005-03-28
US	50267916	RUG5IMLZWYVBZ	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	22	33	N	N	Absolutely wonderful	As a expose on the luddite fund-raiser that is TV-environmentalism this in-depth statistical page turner has very few peers.      I have to admit that as a classically-trained, professional economist I am biased.  Man's achievements in terms of wealth creation, poverty reduction and life expectancy over the last hundred years or so leave me utterly awestruck.  I have no truck whatsoever with people who claim to have the third world at heart, but whose self-promoting policies would clearly consign Africa and the even less well off to perpetual poverty, endless epidemics and non-genetic crop failure and starvation.     Nevertheless, I try to listen to all the views and Lomborg appears to have done much the same.  What made TSE stand out for me was the way the author treats everyone with sympathy & patience - even mindless buffoons who think that food production depends on land mass or that a high oil price spells doom for the world economy.      And in contrast to what Lomborg's many detracters would like you to believe, it appears to me that he has a reasonably good grasp of the issues involved. Reasonably.  This is probably what lies  behind the many distastefully rabid denouncements by his former friends.  Had TSE been written by policy wonks at the Cato Institute, it would hardly have been mentioned in popular circles.  But Lomborg is a former card-carrying environmentalist who had the courage to risk reputation and career by announcing, 'I was wrong.  We really are in great shape.'      It wasn't until he actually looked at all the numbers that he realised things aren't getting worse  .... but only if you do your numbers properly and put realistic timeframes on your projections.  TSE is worth reading just to see why - although it's worth noting that Lomborg is no raging libertarian.  He's a European social-democrat who believes in public/private co-operation and long-term policy plans.    Criticially, BL focuses in on the main obstacles to bettering mankind's lotand what can best be achieved by using cost-benefit analysis and long-term data trends  - rather than starting with a thesis and choosing 'friendly' data points.  The end result is a very readable - if occasionally dry - trot through our world and its state of being.     So if you are open-minded, in search of ideas and believe in our ability to invent and adapt through market-based choices, then you'll probably like this book.  Alternatively, if your world is full of storm clouds, a paranoid fear of debate and a love of authoritarian bureaucracy, then keep your money.  You'll hate its breezy open-minded outlook on life.    Lastly, to our environmentalist brethren, please, please, please stop telling us all to wake up.  Thirty years ago you shouted about the coming ice age.  Now it's global warming/dimming. Virtually all government interference results in 'solutions' that create problems far worse than the original.  And in our world, where climate/living conditions are changing, but in ways that are not properly understood, the thought of mixing scientific uncertainty with bureaucratic bunglng is frightening to say the least.  For this reason there is nothing more healthy than informed, open-minded debate where all the facts are laid bare.  That way everyone can make choices and changes can come about naturally.    Five stars to Mr Lomborg for helping us all to do just that.	2005-02-07
US	50267916	RTML192LQ3M7J	0262550423	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth: Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Bono is the devil	It's January 2005 and the media is awash with calls for long-term aid & debt relief for the 'poor' countries hit by the Sumatra Tsunami.  You don't need much of a brain to work out who means well and who (once again) is showboating.  For those who genuinely want to know how best to help troubled peoples, this book is an indispensable set of ideas - although, Sri Lanka aside, the rapidly growing countries that were hit by the tsunami aren't actually poor at all.      In his quest for growth, William Easterly takes us through all the interventionist strategies (like debt-relief and international aid) that have been tried in the past 60 years to drag poor nations up from the gutter and he conclusively shows that all of these non-market based solutions have failed.  Not failed to hit the targets aspired to by their proponents.  But failed utterly to make even a dent.      Easterly then goes on to bring two trends to light.  One, that there are dozens of reasons why countries remain poor - bad government, corruption, natural disasters, socialism, war, polarised societies & disease to mention a few.  And two, that democratic countries which protect property rights, uphold the rule of law and have good quality services that allow private sector investors to flourish tend to  become richer over the long-term - if progress isn't derailed by unforeseen disasters that wipe out large swathes of the active population.      There are also splendid bits on why aid very often harms countries  since a large amount of it is political or budget spending & most  ends up in the pockets of repressive/corrupt regimes who waste it and use the funds to stay in power.  Or why debt-relief is normally only prescribed as a `solution' by people who either don't understand finance or who don't like rich people.      And in contrast to a previous reviewer, I though Easterly was particularly clear on the best way forward.  That is to offer individuals a stake in their future by giving them every opportunity to succeed on their own without aid, government dependence or corruption - whether through tax incentives, small business schemes or microeconomic aid that is only allocated to countries which state clearly, in advance, how and when they will use it (subject to checks by independent third parties).      In all, The Elusive Quest for Growth is terrific and after reading it again over Christmas I'd recommend it to anyone thinking seriously about how the world might be made a better place for everyone.  Aid addicts & debt deflators beware though, this book makes it clear that you are partly to blame for world poverty. Five stars.	2005-01-11
US	50267916	RTJV8UYQ9NWTZ	1586210912	156348512	Rich Dad Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money - That the Poor and the Middle Class Do Not!	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Money is free.....or, is it?	This is probably the worst personal finance book I have ever read. I almost gave up after page 20.  The style and flow is horribly kindergarten and the ideas so rudimentary that it's hard to believe anyone agreed to print it.    RDPD contains a very basic thread which tells you to maximise your asset growth to cover your outgoings (duh!) and then goes on to tell you something about how Kiyosaki became a millionaire. Exactly what is true and how one should start geting rich is pretty hazy. Financial details are thin and his methods vague at best.    It's more of a motivational perk-me-up than a useful guide to making money and achieving financial independence.  If there is something positive to come out of the book, it's Kiyosaki's constant preaching that a house is just as much a liability as an asset and buying the family home early on in life can seriously impede your ability to achieve financial independence through leveraging your balance sheet.	2002-11-30
US	50267916	R2EWFZRDC1XOXY	9622018866	818787691	The MacLehose Trail	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fabulous memories and wonderful views	Like many, I spend my weekends away, up in the hills and along the trails of Hong Kong's wonderful country parks. There are rugged mountains, beautiful beaches, shady & forested valleys with deserted little villages and the occasional stunning view of Victoria Harbour. One of the best-loved trails is the Maclehose Trail, named after Governor Sir Murray Maclehose who headed the 1970s project to maintain and preserve Hong Kong' stunning landscape while allowing the necessary economic development to carry on apace.<br /><br />This book is a fabulous collection of photographs from along the 100km trail. Each of the ten stages is described in words, photos and delightful Chinese calligraphy. It's more coffee table than some might like, but for those of us who know what it's like to climb Ma On Shan, reach the top and look out over the small expanse of Hong Kong and its many islands, the book's images will bring back many hard-won memories. For those that don't, well, buy this book and get out there.	2002-10-12
US	50267916	R3JBCAONGPIXUT	0393098176	111331148	The Great Bull Market: Wall Street in the 1920s (Norton Essays in American History)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Into the heads of the manic crowd	While many stock market books have lots to say about parallels in financial history, this one is very different. The Great Bull Market is not really about the stock market at all. It's about the factors that led to the market mania of the late 1920s. Changes in social patterns, dramatic changes in the economy and living standards and a liberalisation of financial laws all led to the belief that life had really changed for everyone for the better. <br />Of course, there are wider things to consider than the rather simplistic and sometimes left-wing views put forward here. Even so, The Great Bull Market does take you away from the now perfunctory trawl through margin statistics and takes you into the heads of those who were actually parting with cash. For that it's a great read.	2002-10-12
US	50267916	R3139KSZQDPAP8	0156970902	344928933	Wind, Sand and Stars	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Wind-swept Whimsy	I'd been meaning to read Antoine de Saint-Exupery's 1939 tale of his early flying days for many years.  It's only a little book, some 120 pages long, and you can read it easily within a day.  Overall, I sort of enjoyed it and the introduction by the English translator.  (I read the new 1995 translation published by Penguin Paperbacks).   <BR> Antoine de Saint-Exupery was an aviation pioneer and he and his friends' many crash survivals are retold in lurid detail.  There are tales of fantastic escapes following mountain-side crashes in the Andes.  There is also lament for those free-spirited pioneers who never returned.  Even so, I wouldn't say this is the classic that many have made it out to be.  It's fairly entertaining.  His earlier works are supposed to be better and more fluid and I'll give them a go at a later date.<BR> But for now, the main problem I found with Wind, Sand and Stars is that it is more a collection of shorts inter-woven with Saint-Exupery's philosophical musings on life and death behind the joy-stick.  As such, it isn't a tale that begins, gains momentum and races towards a final frenetic conclusion.  It reads more like a series of diary entries with orders to the existential milkman thrown in between.  <BR> The biggest disappointment for me was the so-called classic account of his miraculous escape from the clutches of the sandy Libyan desert.  Try as he might de Saint-Exupery's writing didn't inspire the same dry-mouthed anticipation made marvellous by Camus in his shorter works. <BR> Overall, Wind, Sand and Stars is great for a lazy day in the garden when you want a bit of escapism.  The world of de Saint-Exupery's, in his early pioneering days, was very different to the cushy world most of us inhabit.  Where Saint-Exupery and friends risked life and limb heading off into mountainous terrain in little more than motorised kite, the biggest risk most of us ever take is deciding which stocks to buy to where to go on holiday.  For this reason alone, I'd recommend giving Wind, Sand and Stars an afternoon's attention. <BR>Three/four stars.	2002-04-16
US	50267916	R310W4PQF0BP3Z	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Commonsense for idiots	The Worst Case Scenario is a very simplified picture-driven reference book for all of life's potential disasters.  And it's great.  <br />Each waiting banana skin is treated with at most eight bullet points and a few illustrations.  There are bits on surviving hazards in adventure sports, wilderness trips, kidnapping, car crashes, quick sand, fights etc. ..... all things that the ordinary couch potato would likely never experience. (One reviewer below describes how bored he is writing his review since it was such a boring book.  Says it all really, doesn't it).  <br />But in the end, is there any point in forking out your hard earned cash for some very, very simple survival tips? <br />Of course there is.<br />You never know, you might just read something here that will come in very useful one day.  And that's the whole beauty of this series.  Life is full of unexpected problems and the people who survive are the ones who are prepared.  How many readers know why you should open the door or smash the windows when your car is in a river and sinking fast?  How many know why a stick will save your like in quicksand?  Not many.  <br />Couch potatoes beware. This book might add years to your life.	2002-04-02
US	50267916	R2U10QG57WVK0T	1568360509	891837497	Trespassers on the Roof of the World: The Secret Exploration of Tibet (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	More China bashing from the Great Game maestro	Another classic from the Englishman who brought us Great Game tales and the story of China's missing Buddhist artwork. <br />This time it's the story of the race to be first in Lhasa - even though the Tibetans asked no one to come and gave no one permission to enter their country. An international cast of Russians, North Americans, the French and the British all attempted to win. Hopkirk's tale of heroism and derring-do then ends with the tragic days of the mid-twentieth century when China invaded and Mao's Red Guard fanatics tried to destroy everything that stood in the way of total domination.<br />Most travellers entered Tibet incognito, either as private travellers hoping to evade detection, and win the prize of being first to enter the sacred city, or in the service of their military or religious masters. All failed, until the legendary Sir Francis Youghusband fought his way there - in true Great Game style - as the head of a British army battalion sent to head off Russian imperial advances into Tibet.<br />Of course, the Tibetans didn't want the Brits telling them what to do and conflict broke out. These days, the manner of the British victory at Guru - in the modern day Indian state of Sikkim - would be the subject of an international enquiry. <br />Many of the other tales are also tragic ...Others are heroic. Most spectacular of all were the 'Pundits' - British trained Indian's spies - who entered Tibet disguised as holy travellers and spent years spinning their prayer wheels, counting every pace and mapping every corner of the country for their colonial masters. It's amazing what you can learning from boiling water. <br />But the final thoughts that linger are those that wonder why the British, after having spent so much energy defeating the Tibetans, then turned turtle and abandoned them in their hour of need. The United States, by then the world's dominant power, stood by and did nothing either. <br />It's a melancholy ending to a truly classic work of art that has you groping for the travel maps and the hiking boots. Once again, Peter Hopkirk has managed to spin an enormously enjoyable story about a page of history that very few know anything about. <br />Watching the Dalai Lama rail against China on the BBC will never be the same again.	2002-02-15
US	50267916	RYDA0XX7CS3OW	0870234358	538788262	Foreign Devils on the Silk Road	Books	5	107	113	N	N	Burglary in the back of beyond	What can you say about Peter Hopkirk that really sums up why he's the guru of the Great Game and derring-do in Central Asia. It's quite hard to put it down to anything in particular, but I find myself gripped with a longing for adventure every time I lift his tales and start to read. The Raj, the Russians, wild holy men and camel trains in Gobi sands - it's all there and I just can't get enough of it. <BR> Is it being British and longing to know how a nation of bunglers can ever come so close to ruling the universe? Or is it the sheer romantic lust for wide open spaces and seeing things no one has ever seen before - except of course the ones who live here? I don't know, but By Jings Foreign Devils on the Silk Road is about as romantic as you can get. <BR> It's about the race to steal the treasures of north-western China at the turn of the twentieth century. Sir Aurel Stein, a Brit. of Hungarian birth, and Sven Hedin, a Swede with a bit of thing for dictators, began a thirty year competition to find and save for posterity the ninth century Buddhist art work that had lain under the sands of the Taklamakan and Gobi deserts for the best part of a millennium. It would change the West's understanding of Central Asian history and their linguistics for ever. <BR> After Stein and Hedin there came the ever-brilliant French, the determined Germans and a very strange bunch of Japanese 'holy men' come spies. A Russian or two arrived a little late and the final curtain came down on an headstrong Yank who didn't quite get what he'd bargained for when the Chinese decided enough was enough. <BR> All set off from Kashgar and travelled by camel into no man's land in search of cities long forgotten and swallowed up in sand dunes. Not a satellite phone between them, they all managed to return with cart loads of precious art works and magnificent scrolls which they 'found' in desert oases and religious retreats guarded by monks who were up for a bribe or two. All met the McCartney's of Kashgar, those mad English nutters who ran a hilltop listening station in true Great Game style. (Yes the ones in 'Setting the East Ablaze' and the one's with the bathroom called 'Victory'). All steered by the stars and all had life threatening disasters involving frostbite and a bandit or two.<BR> By the end you'll realise why Stein and Pelliot aren't names worth mentioning next time you're passing through Chinese customs. The Chinese, funnily enough, aren't too pleased at being reminded they all stood by and watched while wave after wave of expeditions left their territory with priceless artefacts - some of which were destroyed in WWII bombing raids while others lie stacked in boxes under the cobbled streets of Bloomsbury in London. <BR> It's a gripping tale and one which reminds us that the world is very different now. You just can't ride a donkey into someone's house and rob them any more. How sad.	2002-01-20
US	50267916	R2WDEDVTTPLA4Q	0880642270	251129779	From Atlantis to the Sphinx	Books	4	10	23	N	N	Entertaining nonsense from the carpet-bagging fringe	Wilson's thesis here is not new and this is not a book for the gullible. <br />The theory is this: The world as we know it is not the first civilised society to have lived on terra firma.  Atlantis was located in Antarctica (strange how there's no evidence other than some raggy old map found on a pirate ship).  Some undisclosed catastrophe led to the abandonment of the continent and civilisation spread across the globe from this single initial starting point (strange how man has evolved and writing didn't just appear).  Since then man has lost much of the knowledge amassed up that point. (Such as the power to talk to aliens???)<br />Wilson is a very good writer and this is more than just a rehash of the dishonest carpet-bagging tripe that that Graham Hancock trieds to pass off as serious research or new thinking.  It's a very coherent and elegant trip through the thinking that lies behind this left-field school of thought.  Wilson regales the reader with the evidence from Egypt which - he thinks - disproves the dirt-diggers (who, at least, have some hard facts behind them) and generally sets about amassing a wealth of evidence that there are things discovered in the ancient world that cannot be explained by modern science.  One example is the tall stone jars of ancient Egypt.  Wilson explains that these could not have been produced to such a height and with such intricate precision without the makers having access to very advanced sonic drills.  Where did they get them?  At this point, the mind boggles at what is about to come leaping from the next paragraph.  Fortunately, Wilson isn't stupid and doesn't head off into the netherworld of aliens and stargates etc. <br />Personally, I find it hard to believe that these guys still have the self-respect to stand up and repeat themselves to an ever shrinking audience.  But at least Wilson's pulp-fiction is interesting and entertaining ... as opposed to join-the-dots Hancock and his evidence-free cashflow &amp; PR machine.	2001-12-05
US	50267916	R1TNJRFKU0IIME	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	1	10	47	N	N	Awful and boring	I bought A fire Upon The Deep when it first came out in the UK - circa 1992. In the intervening nine years I have tried to get past page 20 about six times. On each occasion I have failed - primarily becuase I couldn't follow what was going on. Vinge switches focus so often, and with such abruptness, that the reader is left wondering if this book was written for the author's own amusement, rather than the enjoyment of the paying audience. I'm sure that the legion of Vinge-lovers will hate me for disliking AFUTD and will probably try to claim that I'm a bit thick. Duhhhh! Good night children.	2001-11-30
US	50267916	R3BN8HNJ37UCKQ	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Sheer magic	Gibson is gifted in the way most other sci-fi writers aren't. He has a habit of coming up with plots and ideas which then come true. Almost everyone else has the Star Trek mentality whereby all the aliens are actually humans - but with funny noses and bad teeth. <br />Neuromancer is best for its dark dub-reggae atmosphere. The plot is a bit wayward, but then when you have such new writing and such depth of imagination you smply don't care. Gibson set off the whole cyber-world genre with this novel. Anyone interested in the internet and its futuristic poossibilities should look no farther than neuromancer. <br />Brilliant.	2001-11-26
US	50267916	RIUUAKOBT5RW9	0393318877	426054309	The Accidental Theorist: And Other Dispatches from the Dismal Science	Books	5	5	5	N	N	PK cheered me up while all around was gloom	It's 1999 and March. I'm in hospital with a very serious thrombosis in my right thigh.  A friend turns up and gives me PK's latest - with a cheery smile. This'll cheer you up, Sunshine.  This might be the last book I read and you bring me economics????<br />Fortunately, he was right.  I laughed a lot and cried at the foolishness of the carpet-baggers.  I'd read a lot of PK's reviews in Slate before and it was lovely to have access to the best of them, here in a single cover.  They range from rants on trade issues to a medley of observations on the Asian Financial Crisis.  His piece entitled Bahtulism will remain a classic for years....just for the title. <br />For me, what makes Krugman really great is not whether he's right or wrong, it's the fact that he can articulate his views quite beautifully and still explain where they are derived from. Many of academic peers are either good at being lurid pontificators (Hanke) or dry academics (Meltzer). Krugman is somewhere in the middle, except his economics is the witty, scarcastic kind.  Imagine how good he'd be if he converted to the Gold Bug camp.  Loonies with an articulate spokesman.  Now that would be something special. <br />Since I'm still alive and I laughed through most of the bad times in theatre, I'll have to give PK the five stars he's due.	2001-11-26
US	50267916	R21XI2Q7CR0U4M	0393312925	505602720	Peddling Prosperity: Economic Sense and Nonsense in an Age of Diminished Expectations (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great text on basic economics	This was the book that got Krugman noticed by the generalist audience.  For the first time he managed to shrug off the academic arrogance that predominates his profession and write a short and very readable intro to the world of political economy.  <br />Peddling Prosperity is good, not because Krugman takes a pot shots at everyones' favourite bogeymen, but because he explains basic economic concepts so clearly and shows how they apply to everyday life.  Basic concepts like the savings-investment gap, why productivity differentials don't matter, rational expectations and the laffer curve are all explained clearly.  PK then explains how the the election choices that ordinary Americans have made since the 1960s have been influenced by them.  The economics is well done.....although his political bashing becomes somewhat heavy handed in places.  <br />The thing I didn't like was the US focus of most of the book.  There are bits on Europe's airbus project and Margaret Thatcher, but that's not really representative of the much bigger world that most of us live in.  Thankfully, his later books get more and more international.  This one is really just a primer for what comes later.	2001-11-26
US	50267916	R3H75RJN4MFY6H	0140268448	352438849	The Woman and the Ape	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Not bad for a environmentalist	In his latest offering, Hoeg takes a stab at contrasting man's love of power with his real place in the eco-system. The result is a mildly sordid & romantic tale with a hugely green ending. Man's world order is ultimately destroyed by his own arrogance and failure to see the warning signs.  This is not exactly a new idea is it?  <br />Overall, and despite Hoeg's lovely way with words, this isn't up to much.  The idea of apes living with humans reminds me of stories of alien replacements in America.  Hoeg's apes lack credibility in much the same way.	2001-11-26
US	50267916	R1EYG1RBBLKTZ9	0471181889	323637288	The Art of Speculation	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Why is this a classic? Please help...	There are good bits and bad bits to Phillip Caret's classic. The bits on balance sheets, P&amp;Ls and what makes the difference between investment and speculation are very good. His style is tight and unambiguous. The message is clear. The bad side is that I found it boring and not at all the 24-carat prose that is claimed in the introduction.<br />Wiley has many great books in its Investment Classics series. This isn't one of them.	2001-11-23
US	50267916	RTI3DYLNNT3P2	1561310220	868921080	Leo Africanus	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A beautiful book	Amin Maalouf tells the life story of Hasan al-Wazzan, a middle ages traveller extraordinaire. Known as Leo, he grew up in Granada in a mixed community, only to be thrown out, along with all the Jews, during the purges. He then travelled to north Africa where his life followed many twists and turns, some good and some tragic. There are tales of wealth, abject poverty, slavery and high position within the caliph courts. His life was a kaleidoscope of styles and standards - of religions and travelling partners. Mid-way he found himself in Rome, a Christian and papal emissary, only to return to north Africa and convert back to Islam once again. No state of mind or situation ever lasted for long. <br />Leo the African had a fantastic life and Amin Maalouf has written a fantastic story around it. His style is effortless and the descriptions of sixteenth century Middle East are teasing enough to get you looking at the maps and travel guides again. You'll love this book. I did, and I'd recommend everyone with wanderlust to read it.	2001-11-18
US	50267916	R3HY5Z70KWXA3D	0749920254	972073561	Waterfall Diet	Books	4	27	31	N	N	Excellent	The chapters on food allergies, the reasons behind intolerances and the way they lead to water retention are very good and beautifully illustrated. I bought my mother the book a few years ago. She used it for three days and then gave up because she couldn't stop going to the toilet. So it obviously works. <br />Mothers......	2001-11-17
US	50267916	R20SPL9FXHRK0I	0140088911	394767391	Money	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Brilliant	What can you say.  A high octane trip through the mad money-crazed world of the 1980s.  Everyone's out for themselves, not giving a monkey's for anything, anyone or even themselves.  And then comes the big payback when the whole thing's a cynical lie and you're nothing more than a little fish trying not to get eaten.  It's a real world version of the US film, The Trueman Show - except no children would ever be allowed to watch and everyone is a loser.<br />Five stars, just for the swearing.	2001-11-17
US	50267916	R2DQSUYVIV453Z	1570872929	260078890	The Concise Guide to Economics	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Tapas-economics	The Concise Guide to Economics a is small libertarian stroll through economics and finance. It's good in that themes are dealt with briefly, leaving interested readers with additional references.  The tour through microeconomic issues is refreshingly honest, clear and insightful.  The author's objective is to explain why socialism is nonsense and why the equilibrium models of perfect competition/perfect information are dangerously simplistic.  Cox does a splendid job here.  Then we head off into macroeconomics and here the pace and pleasure drop off.  Brevity becomes his weakness as complex big world topics are covered in a dozen or so short paragraphs.  Not much of value is revealed, other than the authors obvious belief that central banks are the problem and a return to the Gold Standard is a must.  The final third of the book is devoted to methodoly; like the labour theory of value which forms the chassis of Marxism.  Again brevity sometimes works and sometimes doesn't.      In all, not a bad little book.  But if you really are looking for serious insights, you'll have to look elsewhere....or read the many quoted references.  Three stars.	2001-11-17
US	50267916	R1FIILPL6IQ8CC	0140296565	732551471	Twentieth Century: The History of the World, 1901 to 2000	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Pretty good for a big book	Robert's latest epic is a largely Euro-centric review of world events during the twentieth century. Overall it is enjoyable, comprehensive and easy to get through. It is deliberately Euro-centric since the century began with Europe as the central power and ended with Europe closing ranks to form an important political and economic zone that is probably larger than the sum of its individual parts. <br />Much of the book deals with Europe's influence on the world - either as a colonial power expanding its empires or as an impoverished post-war debtor disposing off its overseas assets. The only other nations which receive half-decent coverage are the United States, Russia, Japan and China. <br />I think the strength of Robert's book is his enviable grasp of the big picture. The scope of this work is beyond the vast majority of popular writers. I think the best individual sections are those covering the years and events leading up to WW1 and those which deal with Japan prior to WW2. Very few generalist readers will be fully up to speed on the effects of Japan's defeat of imperial Russia in 1906 and the long-term implications of its invasion of Post-Revolutionary China. Roberts does a fine job on both counts. <br />The book's weakness are three fold. One, this is almost entirely a social and political history. Economics gets little attention, even though it has played a central role in world affairs since 1900. Just imagine writing a history which says little on international monetary crises, the Great Depression, oil crises and the staggering improvement in global living standards since 1900. Roberts does cover these areas, but they read almost like add-ons.  Two, his coverage of the Middle East is rather perfunctory. Details of France and Britain's departure are terse and the reasons for the Ottoman collapse are a bit hazy. So too are the influences of the UN and the US in post colonial times.  Third, his style of writing comes from my father's era. Some of his sentences seem to go on for ever, although this is more of an editing issue than a criticism of the author. <br />Overall though, Roberts has put together a fine book on the past 100 years. The disappointments are more than made up for in its analysis of Europe - which is truly first class. Four Stars.	2001-10-29
US	50267916	R267IYZS0YGOT7	0255364040	983463950	How Markets Work: Disequilibrium, Entrepreneurship & Discovery (HOBART PAPERS)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A libertarian text on market forces	The basic thrust of Kirzner's IEA pamphlet is to examine the differences between textbook perfect competition and the Austrian discovery process - and how this affects long-term growth in the economy.  It's a micro text that's a little dry in places.  But overall, Kirzner succeeds in keeping the reader on board.  <br />Once the main differences are out in the open, the author then goes on to describe how the discovery process affects different markets and differing situations - advertising and insurance.  <br />How Markets Work will be of value to financial economists and analysts working in the equity markets.  It contains lots of examples of market processes that would be very useful in valuation analysis.  What it isn't, though, is a generalist text.  Three/Four stars.	2001-10-29
US	50267916	R1U1BZTZSC55LW	0393320367	224026761	The Return of Depression Economics	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Absolutely Brilliant	Yes it's a hackneyed old cliche, but Paul Krugman is possibly the best academic economist of his generation.  Not only is this guy one of the foremost theorists in the international sector, but he can write like no one else I know.  The Return of Depression Economics is, by far, the best generalist text on the Global Financial Crisis of 1997/98.  Anyone wishing to know how it all happened should read this book and forget all the others.<br />The thing I like about Krugman is how market savvy he actually is - although this is always easier once the event is over.  His main point about the crisis still hasn't been understood by the majority of academic economists.  It is this.  When liquidity poured out of Asia and growth stopped, governments should have revved up money supplies.  But they couldn't since their private sector counterparts had mountains of short-dated US$ debt and lower US$ exchange rates would have sent most private sector companies to the wall.  In order to get bailed out, they had to prove to the markets that they were sorry for their sins, which meant raising interest rates and creating a huge recession, which made the prospective bailout even larger, which meant they had to prove themselves again, which made the prospective bailout even larger.......  ad infinitum..... the end.<br />Krugman is delight to read.  Five Stars.	2001-10-29
US	50267916	R338A9S15T4BXT	0609804774	843562845	Heaven's Mirror: Quest for the Lost Civilization	Books	1	18	32	N	N	Hogwash of the worst kind	This is about the closest you can come to publishing work that is plainly dishonest.  I'm a financial economist and have to be able to back up everything I say in front of an audience.  Hancock doesn't bother himself with such niceties.  His adopted strategy seems to be that if he can get his theory on television, then the general public will be more likely to buy it and peer pressure will make people less willing to challenge the obvious absence of fact.  Most people I know who bought the book, bought it for the pictures taken by his wife.   <br />In Heaven's Mirror, Hancock takes a well established theory and traipses around the world trying to find and publish even the most spurious evidence that fits.  How can anyone be expected to believe that something earth shattering occurred 12,000 years ago when the evidence amounts to little more than a blustery text and a join-the-dots star map that is, at best, a dodgy fit.  Isn't it strange how there are only a handful of sites cited as evidence.  If he was right about a single origin of mankind, wouldn't there be a constellation of sites from around the world to back him up?   Strangely, there are less than half a dozen. <br />In my profession, this is known as data mining - a cardinal sin, and one which would consign the researcher to the intellectual rubbish bin.    <br />If Atlantis is your bag, then try Colin Wilson.  He writes well and brings the story alive by looking at the long sweep of history and the anomalies about ancient civilisations that cannot be explained by mere co-incidence.  Atlantis may be a load of hogwash, but at least he's entertaining.	2001-10-28
US	50267916	R3UBDDF447KEU	0316328227	688610153	Saigon	Books	5	67	67	N	N	A fantastic tale that mixes history and fiction	Grey's tale of love and betrayal in Indochina is one of the best books I have read in a long time.  It's almost seven years since I read it for the first time, but I still remember being transfixed by the atmosphere in this epic tale.  <br />Saigon begins in the French colonial days of the early 1900s and explores the often cruel relationship between imperial master and servant.  There then begins the rebellion and the central love affair between the Vietnamese and Americans that moves in parallel throughout the book until the French are expelled and then when the last American chopper lifts off for freedom.  Grey's descripton of the final moments and the fight to board is breathtaking. <br />What makes this a truly memorable read is Grey's ability to carry a complex theme with a such light touch.  Never do you feel bored or weary.  Five Stars.	2001-10-28
US	50267916	R3DR5IR74FRNDL	0945466218	581592617	The Austrian Theory of the Trade Cycle and Other Essays	Books	4	58	61	N	N	Austrian macro-economics without any criticisms	A lovely succinct account from four towers in a tradition of economics that is widely represented in the financial markets.  Roger Garrison - himself a leading light in modern times - leads off with a brief overview.  The nice thing is that Garrison manages to get it all across without resorting to waffle - another Austrian tradition. <br />In fact, in my view, Garrison is the star of this review since his ability to keep it simple is a tremendous asset.  Anyone familiar with the dark mutterings of academics in Austrian academic journals will know exactly what I'm talking about. <BR> <BR>Aside from Garrison, the pieces by Rothbard and Harberler are the best since they tackle the central issue of Trade Cycle theory - that any system run by central bankers is inherently unstable since their tinkering with interest rates leads directly to the business cycle.  Much better to have a competitive banking system without a central bank and a curency tied to gold.  That way credit expansions will never be explosive.  Of course, what they don't tell you is that their proposals are inherently deflationary and force deficit countries to do all adjustment when they experience balance of payments problems. <br />Rothbard's piece sets out the mechanics of the Trade Cycle especially well and everyone should be able to understand what he's getting at without too much difficulty.  It's no more difficult than the average economics course on an MBA programme.  That's hardly difficult, is it?   <br />Readers wishing to understand the micro-economics of the Austrian school should also check out some of the recent publications of one Israel Kirzner.	2001-10-28
US	50267916	R3CXSDE8T856Q2	186011914X	106082338	Bugs, Bites & Bowels	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The essential guide to getting sick	Cadogan's Bugs, Bites and Bowels is the best health guide for travellers.  I travel a lot for work and pleasure and always use it when preparing to leave.  The text is bang up to date and easy to understand.  You get all the details on where you're at risk, signs to look for and lots of advice on what to do if your luck runs out - for each and every possible ailment.<br />Everyone who is planning a trip outdoors should get a copy.  Five Stars.	2001-10-28
US	50267916	R1HMZCFCGUQROM	0887295185	464133635	Insight Compact Guide Finland (Insight Compact Guides)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lots of lovely memories	Insight Compact Guides are great. This one has 12 routes for you to follow as you travel through this stunningly beautiful country. All the major sights are featured with pictures and a rating. I like this feature since - as you will find - the authors are pretty good judges of what is worth seeing and what is not. It's also nice to see the Aland Islands included as one of the trips. My wife and I had a tremendous time cycling around them in the early autumn of 1999 - when the sea and sky were deep blue and the myriad forests a swathe of gold and red. <br />There are two big selling points for these guide books. One they are very small, light and easy to follow. Two, into a mere 100 odd pages, the authors have crammed a wealth of info/pictures on the country, its history, culture, customs - as well as 12 unforgettable journey's. <br />Five stars and lots of lovely memories.	2001-10-28
US	50267916	R18XHR1HVTT8VH	0887295185	464133635	Insight Compact Guide Finland (Insight Compact Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Easy on the pocket - delightful to read	Insight Compact Guides are great.  This one has 12 routes for you to follow as you travel through this stunningly beautiful country.  All the major sights are featured with pictures and a rating.  I like this feature since - as you will find - the authors are pretty good judges of what is worth seeing and what is not.  It's also nice to see the Aland Islands included as one of the trips.  My wife and I had a tremendous time cycling around them in the early autumn of 1999 - when the sea and sky were deep blue and the myriad forests a swathe of gold and red.  <br />There are two big selling points for these guide books.  One they are very small, light and easy to follow.  Two, into a mere 100 odd pages, the authors have crammed a wealth of info/pictures on the country, its history, culture, customs - as well as 12 unfortgettable journeys. <br />Five stars and lots of lovely memories.	2001-10-27
US	50267916	R3VE45QLZM84RH	006095373X	207910478	In Siberia	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Into a very dark void	I'm not a great fan of Colin Thobrun. His style is dark and often involves too much conversation with people he meets along the way. But this time, though, CT is in a part of the world that is almost lost in time - a place that's perfect for his dark moody style. Some pictures would have made it really memorable. But that's just a minor quibble. This is travel writing from the centre of the wilderness.  CT will conjure images that you'll find hard to forget. <br />The trip begins on a shuddering train journey east to Ekaterinburg, the scene of the Romanov massacre in 1917. After a brief stop, and some musings on their fate, Thubron sets off east on a tour of Siberia and the lands taken over during the great push eastwards and Stalin's purges. Off we go, up and down the great raging rivers, to once-important communities long forgotten by Moscow. How desperate are the lives of people who once took everything for granted and who now have next to nothing. Thubron's dark style is perfect for the characters and mind-sets of post-Soviet Siberia. <br />We visit Lake Baikal - the world's deepest lake - and Irkutsk, the scene of Russia's gold rush in the 19th century. What a mad place that must have been. There were dancing troupes from around the world, carpet baggers and all manner of adventurers. I bet few, if any readers, know anything about this place and its highly colourful past.  We meet mad scientists, mystics and religious nutters (often the same people) and hear the tales of Russian insensitivity towards local ethnic groups. Half the place seems close to destitution. The fate of missionaries who spent twenty years in the wild and frozen east without a single conversion left me morbid, but absolutely riveted. <br />Finally, Thubron takes us over the edge into a very dark place. The death camps of Northeast Siberia.  CT doesn't hold back. Through local guides and interpreters he describes the absolutely awful, tragic death camp butchery at Magadan and Kolyma where temperatures regularly reach 50 below and prisoners often had little more than a hole in the ground for shelter. <br />I'm sure he'll never forget what he saw and was told as he walked around ghost-ridden huts that once housed screams and tortured innocents.  <br />I'll never forget In Siberia.  Brilliant.	2001-10-26
US	50267916	R20TD4KIUKI30P	000215725X	686635283	City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A very honest and funny look at Delhi	Dalrymple is fast becoming a superstar in travel writing.  Read City of Djinns and you will understand why.  His style is authorative, yet not pompous.  His anecdotes are funny without being offensive to local sensitivities.  Everything he writes will bring back images and feelings amongst those who have travelled around the old decaying Mughal city.  What a beautiful place it must have been in its heyday some 300 years ago. <br />He doesn't come at you from any pre-disposed angle.  He just tells you what happened during the Moghul, British and then the India days from the view point of every day people.  And unlike many a British writer, he doesn't shy away from taking the arrogant colonialists to task for their blatant mistreatment of one of history's richest cultures.  The decline of the Moghul empire comes across as equally pathetic.  The racial hatred that has followed partition is also laid bare in the most frightening detail - a sea of Muslims and Sikhs sent to inhabit each other's territory with no chance of ever going home. <br />This is travel writing that is frustratingly good - and often very, very funny to those who grew up in either India or the UK.  If only I could tell stories as good as this.  Five Stars.	2001-10-26
US	50267916	R2JQXR6HQ41GIK	0393320278	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Documentary Book writing of the highest calibre	John Dower's recent offering is a lively page-turner as well as an all-embracing account of MacArthur's presidency after WWII. It deals with almost every aspect of Japanese society following the cessation of hostilities and then goes on to chart how life changed over the course of the Occupation. It's sympathetic look at Japanese society and doesn't shy away from pointing the finger at US hypocrisy when the Cold War changed American attitudes towards Japan's burgeoning political parties - particularly those on the left of the political spectrum. Embracing Defeat is a very, very good book. <br />Some reviewers believe that Dower has whitewashed the fact that Japan never publicly admitted its war guilt. I don't think this is fair since it is common knowledge that they haven't - at least as a state. There seems little point in repeating what everyone already knows. <br />Where Dower does break new ground is his analysis of why there has never been an admission of guilt. A deal was done to pin the blame on the militarists and absolve Hirohito and, by extension, his loyal subjects too. Moreover, at the time, it was widely touted that Japan had been defeated by science and not the Allied forces. The Americans were just as guilty as the Japanese when it came to spreading disinformation about who was to blame. <br />On a wider scale, Embracing Defeat looks at a vast array of topics. We see how society changed once the Emperor declared an end to the war. Japanese became entrepreneurial almost over night after spending almost twenty years as yes-men to the militarists. There was a burgeoning of political, artistic and lifestyle movements that formed the basis for today's world-wide love affair with Japanese comics and cartoons. Dower takes us through the formation of the new constitution and leaves you fully congiscent as to why the 'Convoy' system so derided by Washington is in fact an American creation that the Japanese have never tried to change. <br />Then there's an account of the war trials where Tojo went through the trap door. In Dower's opinion, the show trials were cleansing act of revenge without a proper trial or any attempt to round up those really responsible. This is probably correct, although some readers will find it hard to stomach given the staggering atrocities committed by Japanese forces throughout the Pacific Rim. <br />The one area that is badly lacking, however, is economics. Japan experienced chronic hyperinflation before the Pacific War and remains highly reliant on imports of almost every raw material. The economy was absolutely knackered by 2nd September 1945. Its railways and maritime capabilities had been almost totally destroyed. <br />So, how did Japan manage to stabilise its economy and then go on to become the world's second largest economy? I know since I'm an financial economist in Asia. But most readers probably aren't and I'm sure they'd like to know. Dower makes a stab at it, but this part reads more like an add on written by a historian with little knowledge of the Dismal Science. <br />Still, I really liked Embracing Defeat for its broad sweep coverage of MacArthur's reign. Four stars.	2001-10-26
US	50267916	R28ADKTVE6P2QU	1864501561	699987142	Lonely Planet Scandinavian & Baltic Europe (Scandinavian and Baltic Europe, 5th ed)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	Disgraceful garbage	Another bomb from Lonely Planet.   Incoherent, often wrong and poorly written.  It amazes me how this company's guide books have become the most popular amongst young travellers.  This one covers the entire Scandinavian region - including the baltic republics and St. Petereburg.   Like most of the regional LP books, this one doesn't follow a standardised format and provides the reader with reams of useless information. How anyone is supposed to plan a trip using this book is beyond me.  Garbage.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	R1G2VMEKWBT3C2	051788433X	119875571	Extraordinary Popular Delusions & the Madness of Crowds	Books	5	78	78	N	N	The definitive book of manias	This is it. If you want to know how many times the world has been gripped by madness then look no farther than the reprinted edition of MacKay's classic. Written in that wonderful Olde English style of the early 19th century, MacKay takes us on a tour of the world's most horrifying manias - up to about 1840 anyway.     I particularly liked the chapter on witchcraft and witch hunts since it told me everything I'll ever need to know on why seemingly intelligent groups of people band together to banish or murder innocent members of society - just because they are different. Another engaging chapter deals with millennialism - the fear and dread that grips society at the end of each millennium. If you thought the end of the last one brought turbulence, you should read what happened a thousand years ago.     This book is often quoted by stock market pundits and talking heads as if it were a treatise on irrational behaviour in the financial markets. It isn't.  It deals with irrational behaviour and mass stupidity in all walks of life.  Five Stars.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	RBUI48B7OX45L	0810928566	414029610	India and the Mughal Dynasty	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A lovely introduction	I love the Discoveries Series.  An intelligent text is interwoven with beautiful illustrations and pictures. Each illustration comes with text that is pregnant with information. In fact, the text and the illustrations can be read as parallel texts. <br />This one on the Mughal empire is an absolute delight - even though the final days of the Mughals India are treated only very briefly. It's the sort of text that children and adults can learn a lot from. Beautiful and Magic.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	R1YF9LE618VNNX	0521550068	560909507	The Gold Standard and Related Regimes: Collected Essays (Studies in Macroeconomic History)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Much old stuff, but a nice overview	This is a collection of Bordo's scholarly work on the Gold Standard. It's mostly academic in style and contains quite a lot which will be beyond the generalist reader. Also, there is little here that will be new for those who know the topic well. <br />What I did like was the introductary chapters which describe how the system worked at different times and also how differently its workings were percived amongst central figures at the time. I found this very useful since most texts would have you believe that the system was a smooth functioning and uniform entity. It obviously wasn't. Thank you MB for this valuable insight.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	R2WUZGGIOTIY0B	0789414511	284726620	Eyewitness Travel Guide to California	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great for cities, not bad for journeys	I tend to agree with a previous reviewer. Eyewitness Travel Guides are great for seeing the sights in large cities. But when on the road, they are a bit less than fantastic. My wife and I used this one a few years ago on a tour along Route 1 from Calistoga to San Diego. Most of the info was very useful. The way this guide book introduces the area and its culture is one of its strongest points. Its picture-driven approach is also a big selling point. Four stars.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	R3UG0P2G9YIJT9	0789446235	423247876	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Mexico (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	A work of art that fails to inspire	If you want the definitive picture guide ot the wonderful archaeological sights of Mexico, then this book is it.  All the major cities are covered in spendid colour - as is Mexico city.  The eidtors have done a wonderful job in bringing the highlights alive.  When you open the pictures pages you will really want to see the real thing up close. <br />But outside, this area, the book doesn't really have all the information you really need to plan a trip and fully understand what you are seeing.  I really like the Cadogan guide books since they are extremely detailed.  This is a bit brief for my liking.	2001-10-25
US	50267916	R23NO53T0N410U	0312263821	853060163	Raj: The Making and Unmaking of British India	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A big story from an unabashed Empire-lover	This is a big picture account of Britain's involvement in India from the mid-1700s to 1947. On the whole its very enjoyable and enlightening and worth four stars for its content and style. The exception is anepilogue which tries to credit Britain with everything that's good about modern India and blame all its faults on geopolitics and the Indian psyche....whatever that might be. It's hard to describe how angry I felt when reading such biased nonsense.<br />Raj's strength is the period running up to the mutiny. From the early days of the East India Company, to the hours running up to the mutiny, James paints the pre-imperial days as an merchant's adventure story that was spoiled by cynical exploitation of the native population by missionaries and Darwinists and the imposition of an unfair tax system that will sound familiar to many from other colonial regimes.  After reading the early chapters, you'll wonder why the mutiny didn't come any sooner. <br />Then, in 1857, comes the imposition of colonial rule. James views the 90 years of London rule as a positive period - except, that is, for the Amritsar massacre and other obvious misdeeds. India was left with a free flowing democracy, a competent civil service and a judicial legal service. Apparently, this is something that the British should be proud of. The period is covered in great detail and - if you're prepared to ignore the author's obvious love of the empire - then you'll learn quite a lot. Predictably, James doesn't have much to say on the arrogance with which Britain administered its colonial subjects. (Those wishing a more balanced account should check out City of Djinns by William Dalrymple.) <br />Despite these flaws, I'd still say Raj is well worth the effort. There's quite a lot on the Great Game, loads on the day-to-day drudge of working for the Empire and some decent maps that help to explain your geographical questions.  James also kicks things off with some initial mumble on the Mughal decline that sets the stage quite nicely. <br />Four stars....with reservations	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R3F60UKG8EHQDI	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fantastic	This is Peter Hopkirk's classic account of the nineteenth century cold war struggle between the British Empire and Imperial Russia.  Hopkirk is a devil with the pen and knows how to spin a great story.  The end result is a gripping tale, the kind of wild adventure story my grandfather used to tell me when I was a child.   Five stars simply isn't enough.  This is terrific stuff. <br />For those who don't know, this is the story of how Central Asia became part of the Russian, and then Soviet Empire.  Russian expansion to the southeast caused consternation in British India where military planners became convinced the Russians were out to invade the `Jewel of the Crown'.  There followed a century's worth of cold war espionage between the empires that involved all maner of characters and military encounters.  <br />There are invasions and wars in Afghanistan, where the Brits were turfed out twice, Russian conquests of the Emirates of Khiva &amp; Bokhara and legions of adventurers heading off into the wild blue yonder on missions to map the region and foil the enemy.   All their stories are here.  You'll have to pinch yourself to believe some of them.   What an adventure story this is.    <br />Five Stars.	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R2VAEACLOK6F77	0684856476	219231016	The Rum Diary: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Let's get wasted!!	Hunter S Thompson's editors claim that this is his long lost first novel.  Why do I not believe them?  In any case, it's pretty entertaining even though there isn't much of a plot.  It's very much like HST's perceived lifestyle imprinted on a short novella with lots of drinking.  Now isn't that a surprise.    <br />One thing I really liked was the size and the type font.  I bought mine in Norway and it came in a tall thin format that shrunk each para down to almost newspaper size.  For me, this made the book very easy to read and much more enjoyable.	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R3FL0L9BG5V6YW	0789422530	844556071	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Lisbon (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Another top-notch Eyewitness Travel Guide	Eyewitness Travel Guides are really great value and this is a very nice guide book.  Take an Eyewitness Guide and a Cadogan Guide (if available) and you will have all the information you might possibly need.  Forget the competition.  This is the kind of intelligent tour guide you have been waiting for.   <br />The introduction is a beautifully illustrated time line of Portuguese history since the 1200s.  The city and surrounding area is then broken up into sections and each is introduced by use of picture-driven accounts and easy to read descriptions of what you will encounter.  There are nice maps and each area is described in such illuminating detail that you cannot help but get up early and get down to it.  Each place of interest is preceded by a list of opening times, map locations and details of how to get there by using public transport.  <br />It's all highly readable and also gives useful tips on where to eat, what to do, where to stay and how to get about.  The nice thing about the hotels and eating guides is the way this book breaks down its recommendations by price - allowing travellers of varying budgets to enjoy their time in this fascinating of cities.  <br />This is a very good book indeed.	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R21UE3XV2MNCZZ	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A beautifully written account of man's greatest struggle	Antony Beevor's account of Hitler's biggest mistake and (possibly) World War Two's greatest battle is a riveting read.  Rarely have I come across a text which has gripped my imagination and haunted me with equal vigour.  The scale of the struggle and the blunders - on each side - was immense.  Russia's mistreatment of its own soldiers was almost unfathomable.  Almost 13,000 Russians were shot by their own side for desertion or for showing signs of cowardice (whatever that might have meant).  <br />The extent of Hitler's megalomania comes to light right at the beginning and shines ever more brightly as the battle progresses.  By the end, you realise he was little more than uneducated fool who didn't give a stuff for the armies of volunteers and conscripts that fought on his behalf.  Hitler's generals, Von Paulus in particular, seem to have been totally hamstrung by their leader's ever changing battle plans.  Their Russian counterparts suffered the same difficulties at the hands of their great leader - although in the end the battle appears to have been won by theatre generals who decided to take matters into their own hands.  One wonders how things would have ended if Stalin had been on the ground and not many miles away in snowbound Moscow. <br />Beevor does a wonderful job relaying all the information to a generalist reader.  Some have slighted him because it is written in a journalistic style.  I think this is big strong point since his easy prose makes Stalingrad a much more enjoyable readable.   You'll need sleeping pills, for you won't forget this book in a hurry.   Five Stars.	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R38QOZTA92Z3QE	0582089204	632949901	The Origins of the First World War (Origins of Modern Wars)	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Into the vortex - from all the angles	The Origins of the First World War is a highly readable and enlightening tour of the world in mid-1914.  Joll doesn't come at you from any particular political perspective and grants you access to all the arguments for the conflict.   Nationalism, politics, military expansion, big business interests, imperialism along with conditions in each of the beligerents are examined in a free flowing easy style.  <br />Joll does a very nice job in demolishing the Marxist line that WW1 was the result of imperialism and big business interests.  By the end you are left convinced that, while the German naval expansions of 1912 were ultimately to blame for the process that led to war, each country got involved for entirely different reasons.   There are good maps which give are easy to understand. <br />I do have some criticisms though.  Each chapter is self contained but doesn't have any sub-headings or breaks.  The editors could have spent a little time breaking up the text in each chapter to make the text a bit more readable.   There isn't a great deal of attention to longer term history - such as the lingering impact left by the Crimean war and its peace treaty.  But these are relatively minor quibbles about history writing that almost ranks as a work of art.   Joll was a highly gifted historian.	2001-10-24
US	50267916	R1SK7FCNDQNSZW	0500051038	973860385	Chronicle of the Maya Kings and Queens: Deciphering the Dynasties of the Ancient Maya	Books	2	8	23	N	N	Too academic for a generalist audience	The authors may be stars in the Maya world, but I didn't like this book much - especially after paying almost US$50 for the hardback version.  It may have great illustrations and very informed analysis of certain city lineages, but it doesn't give you a good flavour of the history of Mayan civilisation.  It's very academic in its approach and covers less than a dozen cities in the region.  Its conclusions on the rise and fall of one of Mesoamoerica's foremost civilisations were a bit perfunctory for my liking.  Stylish but dry. Two stars.	2001-10-20
US	50267916	R3DDPM7PEMAFVN	0805056688	260745463	Hungry Ghosts: Mao's Secret Famine (Holt Paperback)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A brave look at Mao's malignant megalomania	Books like this are important since they set the standards for others to follow. No one - to my knowledge - has seriously tried to quantify the extent of the suffering brought on by the famine that began in the late 1950s. In Hungry Ghosts, author Japser Becker might not get his numbers absolutely right, but this is a highly engaging look at the downside of thuggish megalomania. I don't think I've ever read anything so morbid, yet so utterly fascinating.     The basic thrust is that China's communists repeated the mindless agricultural policies designed by their Soviet counterparts in the 1920s. Russia's communists destroyed learning, promoted ignorance and brought famine to the Ukraine. China, following in their footsteps, made exactly the same mistakes. Strangely enough, the result was exactly the same. Famine and over 30 million deaths - as the World Food Summit's documents clearly show.     What follows is the story of a country in the grip of mass delusion as moronic agricultural policies caused a collapse in crop production and an authoritarian government demanded ever higher taxes in the form of grain. Of course, communities attempted to please Mao by lying about the true level of grain production. Since they exaggerated, their grain tax quota was higher. When they couldn't pay their taxes, their food stocks were confiscated. Villagers then died, en masse. Anyone found with food was assumed to be counter-revolutionary and was either starved to death or executed in gruesome circumstances. The madness only ended when Mao's own family intervened. But only after tens of millions had perished.    Some reviewers - expecially those who grew up in a stable and judicial country like Hong Kong - seem to think that the murderous circus just north of the Shenzhen river is something to be applauded and anyone who thinks differently is out to get at China. How sad can you get? Four Stars.	2001-10-20
US	50267916	R2NGW86CFLRGF5	0887294308	19661667	Insight Compact Guide Norway (Insight Compact Guides)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Happy Days!	For part of our honeymoon, my wife and I decided to tour Norway and the rest of Scandinavia.  For Norway, there was no better guide than this little book.  It gave us all the info we needed - baring accommodation.  But that can be seen to easily by popping into Norway's myriad tourist offices and booking ahead.<br />It's great for a number of reasons.  One, it's very small and fits in your pocket - unlike most of the competition.  Two, there is little so-called 'travel advice'.  It focuses mainly on the best places to visit, what you can see when there and then ranks them in orders of fabulousness.  The nice thing is that each chapter is a self-contained route that you can follow by car, by train or in Norway's case, by boat.  Three, there are colour pictures of each destination along the route - to whet your apetite.  Yes, there are one of two that look a bit dated, but most are nature pics and these won't change much in a 1000 years, never mind fifteen.  <br />I really liked this book and found it extremely useful - along with its Finland counterpart.  What better than a guide book that's ultra-light, clearly written and full of colour pictures.  Top marks Insight.	2001-10-19
US	50267916	R2P8WJX1DTDYB1	0765603101	19794425	Japan, the System That Soured	Books	2	7	14	N	N	A raging bore	Japan: A System That Soured is a pretty useless book.  Katz, a very so-so journalist cum economist, spends ages getting to two very simple conclusions.  One, economies which grow quickly in the early stages of development slow down when they reach maturity.  Two, Japan cannot grow any faster over the longer term unless its economy is liberalised and its markets thrown open to competition.  My goodness.  Really?  Whatever made you think that...	2001-10-18
US	50267916	R3FTPSTBJ9478Z	1568361025	339022821	Setting the East Ablaze: Lenins Dream of an Empire in Asia	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Absolutely brilliant	One of the best books I have read in years. Possibly better than Hopkirk's original 'The Great Game'. While this is the tale of about espionage and sabotage behind enemy lines in Central Asia, it reads like an adventure novel. <br />The action centres around immediate aftermath of the Russian revolution, just when the new soviet state was most intent on exporting revolution to the rest of the world. Hopkirk is at his best when he introduces Russia's nemesis in Central Asia - a certain Colonel Frederick Bailey, 'Great Game' hero and butterfly collector. Totally bonkers, in a truly British way. It's so exciting that you can scarcely believe that it's true - apparently it is. <br />Bailey, a british agent from the Raj, is sent to Central Asia to foil Soviet attempts to expand their empire south. Along the way he evades hit squads, execution chambers and even manages to circulate amongst the enemy by joining their own secret service and working as a double agent.  About half way through, Bailey evenually gets back to India and drops out of sight - much to the frustration of the Soviets, but not before one final shoot out at the border post. <br />Hopkirk then sets off on another romp from Moscow to the Pacific Ocean, detailing the struggle between the Whites, the Reds and their respective supporters in the international community. This time there are multiple players -: the Soviet Comintern, Indian Communists, Turkish Nationalists, White Russians, British agents fighting for the Whites and some very, very cruel members of God's creation. Everything swirls around in a vast game where everyone is out to grab what they can from the dismembered Russian empire. <br />Almost everyone in here will be new to most readers - with the exception of Mikhael Borodin - but that shouldn't detract from an excellent piece of story telling. This is history the way it should be written. Five Stars is five too few.	2001-10-17
US	50267916	RYHG1WZINK2JD	0810928418	34528099	Lost Cities of the Maya (Discoveries)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A lovely intro to a fascinating region	I've been interested in Mayan culture since I was a kid.  I went to the Yucatan for the first time in 1999 and used this as a light refresher course on the region's 'discovery'.  <br />It's a great little intro containing lots of details about the early adventurers - and their ideosyncracies.  There are great pictures and illustrations which go along with the text.  It all links up really well and takes you through many aspects of the main cities that have been uncovered.  <br />That said, it doesn't tell you much about the history of the Mayan culture.  You won't come away understanding anything about the Mayan calendar, social customs or their religion.  It's really just a good yarn about the mad blokes who roamed the forests looking for adventure...and found it.	2001-10-17
US	50267916	ROW8H4JP2KPRR	0415132061	773420607	Factories of Death: Japanese Biological Warfare, 1932-45, and the American Cover-up	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Gruesome &amp; erudite, but not a page turner	Sheldon Harris is considered the foremost authority on Japanese atrocities during WW2.  Here he documents the atrocities carried out by Hirohito's scientists in Manchuria in the 1930s and early 1940s.  <br />He begins with a chapter or two on Japan's own Angel of Death - the architect of the infamous U731 experiment camp in NE China.  It's not particularly engrossing, but I suppose a character profile is necessary.  <br />Then we get into the dirt - which is basically a highly detailed account of the depravity waged in Manchuria.  Local Chinese communities and POWs were subjected to spine chillling experiments, no less depraved than the low points of Mengele and other Nazis. The most disturbing fact is that the army wasn't the main sponsor at the beginning. It was the Japanese academic community in Tokyo and Kyoto.  It wasn't until the army discovered how effective the germs would be against the Allies that they became interested.  <br />Then comes the second half which details how US and Soviet forces gave quid pro quos to Japanese scientists for their 'information'.  No one who has read anything about the end of WW2 in Europe should be surprised what Harris reveals in here. <br />I found this book quite boring.  I didn't manage to stay the course.  It took a couple of sessions to near the end.  I still haven't finished, some eighteen months after waging war on page one.	2001-10-16
US	50267916	R2RRP3ZJKY51P1	1864500689	853580277	Lonely Planet Australia (Lonely Planet Australia, 10th ed)	Books	1	18	26	N	N	A complete waste of money	If you've travelled a bit in your time and know how to book tickets or manage your money, there is very little that this book will tell you that's useful.  My wife and I spent three months in Australia in late 2000 and barely used this book at all. It was heavy and it tried to cover everything.  It failed miserably and ended up being used as a door stop.  It just doesn't cover anything in sufficient enough detail to allow you to plan a journey properly.<br />There are reams of intro pages giving advice on travelling that would only be useful to people who'd never travelled outside their own country. For example, what is the point in giving maps with one way airline ticket prices? There's a thing called the internet that's been around for quite a long time.  <br />The information that you actually need isn't there.. i.e. stuff like international telephone codes, daylight saving rules etc. Half the info on accommodation is either wrong or out of date. Worse it's geared towards the budget traveller.  Many long-term tourists nowadays are taking time off after a few years of full time work. They have money and want to get a broad range of prices covering various classes of accommodation.  LP can't supply the goods. <br />In general, Lonely Planet guides are becoming victims of their own success.  They're bloated and boring.  Unless things change dramatically, this was the last LP guide I will ever buy.  I know many people who feel the same way. <br />Very poor indeed.	2001-10-14
US	50267916	RAUCE6KBEOIOM	0141001461	474125502	Downfall: The End of the Imperial Japanese Empire	Books	3	50	101	N	N	Deep but flawed	In Downfall, Richard B. Frank has done a wonderful job in bringing together the facts about US bombing raids on Japan, the invasion and counter-invasion plans in 1945/46, the awful truth about the Japanese economy in the lead up to surrender and the victories won by US military intelligence. But while it's very hard to fault what he's put together, I have one major complaint. Frank's objective appears to be to prove that the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were the primary events that brought about the final capitulation.  Many reviewers go for this but I believe that, if judged by this objective, the book is much less successful.  <br /> <br />As Downfall draws to a close, Frank repeatedly makes the point that that the atomic cataclysm forced the Emperor to sue for peace. While the evidence that Japan wasn't serious about peace until early August 1945 is undeniable, this claim that the bomb did the trick simply doesn't wash.  <br /> <br />In fact, even Frank doesn't even seem to believe his plot completely since the list of factors leading to capitulation changes between the final chapters and the conclusion. In the final chapters he states that the A bombs did it and the Soviet declaration of war wasn't important. Then in the conclusion he lists both events - along with others. Any source that doesn't back him is dismissed, often on the spurious grounds that people who write their memoirs are less reliable than those who testify immediately after the event. In the end we get a shabby list of Japan's wartime iniquities, as if to cover for Frank's unconvincing atomic thesis.  I found this a sad ending to what could have been the definite history of Japan's defeat.  <br /> <br />After reading Downfall, I am no less convinced that the USSR's declaration of war on Japan was, at least, partly responsible for the Emperor's decision to sue for peace. Tojo and his gangster fiends were psychopaths.  To grant them rational status and to say that an atomic light showbrought them to their knees just doesn't do it for me.  Once the Soviets had declared war, any chance of winning was over and any chance of obtaining a favourable armistice was totally gone. It was either utter annihilation or unconditional surrender.  Somehow, and I'm still not quite sure how, we got surrender.  <br /> <br />Despite this gripe Downfall is still a fabulous book and should be read by anyone who thinks the end of WW2 was a 'cakewalk'. The wealth of details that describe US conventional bombing raids and Japanese attempts to avoid unconditional surrender, despite being hopelessly defeated, is staggering. Frank's analysis of the work of US code breakers, their relationship with policymakers and the awful choices that have to be made in times of war is an invaluable insight into how the Pacific War was won.  This really is top-notch stuff. <br /> <br />Four stars.	2001-10-13
US	50267916	R3ZHZPG6AHKCT	0500281335	779221251	Breaking the Maya Code	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A very nasty story by a lover of life	Breaking the Maya Code is a great introduction to the complex world of decipherment.  M.D. Coe - a leading figure in the story - knows most of the modern characters and has the writing skills to really bring the subject alive. <br />Breaking the Maya Code begins with a wide-ranging introduction to the discipline of linguistics.  There follows the story of how the Mayan script has been brought alive over the last one hundred years.  <br />Coe's familiarity with most of the modern characters, and his frustration with non-linguist archaeologists, means that this is not altogether a happy tale.  Academic back biting, sabotage by old-generation prima donnas and subterfuge by the dirt diggers, has held back translation until very recent times.  Coe believes this is a disgrace give how little time it took to decipher Egyptian and Hittite scripts.<br />But there are modern heroes - Mexicans, Russians, Americans, Europeans etc - in a very international cast. These names are almost dietised by an author who clearly loves his profession and those who go out on a limb to make discoveries that others would try to block.  <br />Great Stuff.	2001-10-11
US	50267916	R2BXDNCQLTENT7	0881322628	842991177	Restoring Japan's Economic Growth (POLICY ANALYSES IN INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Keynes is alive and well and living in Japan	This is an excellent little book. Posen, an increasingly influential monetary economist, gives us his view on what is wrong and what needs to be done in Japan. While this effort was published in late 1998, the diagnosis and medication prescribed are the same now as then. <br />In Posen's view, all but one of the economic stimulus packages unveiled in the 1990s was equivalent to pouring money down the drain. Government money either wasn't spent at all because regional and municipal governments are bust or money was thrust at wasteful construction industries which add nothing to GDP. Also, monetary policymakers have decided that their new independence means they should do exactly the opposite to what everyone outside the BOJ thinks they should do. So policy is in a state of paralysis.<br />Posen argues that Japan needs aggressive stimulus, both through fiscal and monetary policy channels. In his view, there is nothing terribly wrong with Japan - a very different view from consensus. He also shows that BOJ fears of igniting inflation if they loosen monetary policy aggressively are complete nonsense. <br />This isn't a happy read for amateurs. It's quite in depth and needs some knowledge of the dismal science. It's very mainstream or Keynesian, just in case you were wondering. But it's a good read nonetheless.	2001-10-11
US	50267916	R1E6RI4SQRQSKW	0060183357	261942877	Red Odyssey: A Journey Through the Soviet Republics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Through Central Asia as the USSR crumbled	Marat Akchurin  an Uzbek poet and man of letters - set off on a tour of the Central Asian republics, just as the Soviet Union was crumbling into extinction.  This is the travelog of his journey through states and countries that were being thrown into turmoil.  Its fascinating, partly because hes an Uzbek and therefore able to go to places where westerners cant, and partly because he went there just at the time the split was getting into full swing.     Even in those days, the Central Asia republics werent particularly happy places.  Ethnic cleansing in Uzbekistan & Kirghistan rivalled anything weve seen in recent years in the former Yugoslavia.   Destitution was rife as the final death throws of central planning removed any regularity and certainty from life.  And the withdrawal of Soviet troops meant that gangs, mafia and warlord factions were rife.  Akturin had a number of lucky escapes from mafioso along the way.     His travels also take the reader thorough the fascinating old Moghul/Silk Road cities of Alma-Ata (now Almaty), Samarkand and Tashkent.  Youd be hard pressed to describe them as either glamorous or affluent these days.  He finally ends up in Baku, a former naval base for the Imperial Russian navy, and the place where Russian agents used to set off on their journeys across the steppes to fight their covert war against the British Raj.     The style is free flowing and extremely readable.  He may be a poet, but this is factual travel writing with an eye for fascinating detail.  The translator has done a fine job in bringing Red Odyssey to an English speaking audience.  The maps of his travels are also very good.   Four stars.	2001-10-09
US	50267916	RR2893YUFS5Z3	0471119784	569125327	Where Are the Customers' Yachts? or A Good Hard Look at Wall Street (A Marketplace Book)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	'Cos stocks (...) and all the bankers are crooks	Where are the customers' yachts is the funniest send up of the stock broking industry that's ever been written - by miles. The thing that strikes you is how nothing has changed since he wrote his memoirs in the late 1930s. (Allegedly, he lost a packet in the 1929 crash and decided to call it a day - from where he went on to write childrens' books).<br />His writing style is so nimble, so comic, that you can't help reading this book from cover to cover in a single sitting. You've got to read it, just for his description of the (...) world of short selling and analyst reports. It's old fashioned prose of the very best kind. No bizno-speak or MBA twaddle. Just colourful characters and lots of laughs. <br />Schwed may have been a broker, but everyone is a target. Clients... rarely do their homework and are always impressed by analysts/sales telling them what will happen. One pitiful tale involves a client asked for $500 margin in a falling market. He runs around all day raising funds to try and head off the deadline. But in the end he comes up short by 15 dollars - after paying the broker 485... <br />Where are the customers' yachts is a fabulous book. Schwed has managed to heap ridicule on everyone and yet spell out, very clearly, why the only winners are the bankers and the brokers.	2001-10-09
US	50267916	R3SYY2Q76H3PLU	0452281806	347963130	Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Play it again Alan!	This book is an exception in a market flooded with similar tales.  While they all seem to start off with the South Seas Bubble and then trudge through the familiar seed beds of tulips and Real Estate, Devil Take the Hindmost skips quickly on to more recent scams.  It's a fast moving tale of greed and fear that in my opinion is one of the best on the market.  Chancellor, an ex. financial journalist, writes extremely well and knows how to spin a good story.  After all, that what all the bubbles were based on.  Hot air and hapless dupes. <br />Devil Take the Hindmost wasn't written late enough in the day to get into the most recent latest madness - the global IT bubble centred on the US.  But all the recent scams are there -: Michael Milken and his junk bond extravaganza in the 1980s, the Japanese equity bubble and the missing artwork masterpieces in the late 1980s and the Hong Kong property and Red Chip bubbles of the mid-1990s.  Working in the emerging markets field, I'd say market bubbles are a lot more common than some of the previous reviewers seem to believe.  I've seen almost half a dozen in Asia in the last six years.  <br />In a nice touch, Chancellor skips forward in each chapter to look at how history repeats itself which vicious regularity.  After reading this you'll wonder why the recent technology bubble ever took off. There have been so many of these scams in the past that surely someone must have seen the crash coming.  Of course, there were many, many cassandras and many foresaw the final reckoning.  But no one listened.  No one bothered to work out their risk-reward profile.  In many cases, they didn't even understand that reward and risk go upwards hand-in-hand.  They were all too busy buying over-priced stocks and bonds in companies that had little more than an idea behind them. <br />Sound familiar?  Well, first there was a spot of trouble in the South Seas.  Then things got crazy in Tulips, The Gilded Age, Real Estate, Transistors, Junk Bonds.........	2001-10-04
US	50267916	R1F66S1B6MMZU3	0679730346	318681545	London Fields	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Worth every penny	London Fields is one of those rare things that you never forget.  I still find myself using terms I first heard in there.  It's dark, rancid humour of the very best kind. <br />I hear Amis is moving to America.  God only knows what he'll come up with when he's there.  I hope it's even better than this.	2001-10-02
US	50267916	R256UXZGTTN23W	1860110932	898193742	Yucatan & Southern Mexico	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Best guide book on the Maya region	Nick Rider's travel guide is by far the best book for visiting Maya/Toltec sites in this region.  I always use a Cadogan guide when one is available.  They are the most intelligently written and informative of all the guide books currently on the market.  <br />Although they can be a bit dry, they are normally written by people who really know their subject well.  Rough Guide/Lonely Planet/Let's Go guides, for example, are heavy and filled with reams of irrelevant pages you will never look at if you have ever ventured outside the safety of your living room.  Cadogan guides assume you have a brain and you want to find out as much about the local area as possible - while still providing the essential travel tips.  <BR> <BR>This one covers the Mayan region of Southern Mexico, Belize and Guatemala.  Where it excels is its descriptions of the amazing archaeological sites you will encounter, their history and the relationship between indigenous Maya people and those descended from the Conquistadors.  <br />The author was a postgraduate in Mesoamerican studies and provides - what I think - is one of the best introductions to Mayan culture, architecture and its famous calendar that I have encountered.  For those who are interested there's also a list of further Maya reading, a great food section and loads of stuff on towns/cities, travel timetables and dinky places to stay. <br />Armed with this book, you'll really feel you are being accompanied by a knowledgeable guide who isn't there solely to relieve you of your money.  On many occasions I found the book more insightful than hiring a local.  <br />Thankfully, Cadogan have revamped the cover and it looks much better.	2001-10-02
US	50267916	R7I26RGC08BX9	0312087748	542687874	England's Dreaming: Anarchy, Sex Pistols, Punk Rock, and Beyond	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It was even wilder than it seemed at the time	Jon Savage's trip through Punk begins about 50 to 60 pages in - after some early flummery on Westwood and McLaren. From there on Savage just can't tell the story fast enough. This is a cracking read and, for me, a chance to relive a childhood. What a breath of fresh air Punk was. And what a story this is.<br />England's Dreaming really gets you deep into the madness. For that's what it was. McLaren, the egoist business man, versus Sid and Lydon versus Richard Branson and the record companies. It was a game of chicken between the lot of them. Sadly, Sid lost in a big way. McLaren and Lydon? Well, they were responsible for two of the greatest pop classics of all time...Double Dutch and Public Image. The record companies now have the internet to keep them awake at night. <br />As for Ronnie Biggs. Well the law finally got its revenge in 2001 as skint Ronnie flew back to Blighty on a plane chartered by the English tabloids. Chat rooms across the land debated whether England's favourite villain should serve his time or get his final wish of one last pint in an English pub. The wigs have yet to decide the ending. But what a ride it's been....<br />Some reviewers seem to dislike Savage's apparent closeness to his subjects. I think that this makes for even better copy - especially the passage down the Thames on the night the dream came crashing down. <br />England's Dreaming is, quite simply, a wonderful book of life on the edge. The UK in the early to mid 1970s was an awful place. Punk changed everything for a lot of people.	2001-09-29
US	50267916	RG4N4OC4J1W87	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	69	72	N	N	Opening eyes in a time of blind hatred	Very few, I doubt, will be disappointed with Rashid's latest offering - especially those wanting an in depth look at why bombing Afghanistan is unlikely to be successful in the war against terrorism.   <br />I read Taliban: Islam, Oil and the New Great Game in Central Asia (UK version) when it first came out in early 2000 and found it extremely thought provoking.  I read it again after the New York bombings and now believe it is the best intro on the market. <br />His analysis is prefect for the international reader trying to get to grips with an unknown entity.  It should be.  He's a very well respected South Asia journalist and one of the few who've actually been there since day the Soviet tanks rolled in.  His contacts in the region are unparalleled. <br />To be sure, everyone comes out of this book looking bad - in particular the Saudis, the Pakistani government's of Zia-ul-Haq/Bhutto(s) and the United States.  You're left feeling extremely sorry for the ordinary Afghani who has been a pawn in a grotesque game of chess played between the major powers for as long as anyone can remember.  But domestic history and tribal rivalries also play a huge part.<br />As the title suggests, there are three parts to the book.  To set the stage, Rashid gives a detailed account of Afghanistan's miserable history since the revolution in 1973. It details bitter infighting between various tribal and religious groups in the immediate aftermath of the Soviet withdrawal, the civil war that ensued when President Najibullah was deposed and the rise of the Taliban out of religious schools in Pakistan.  It's ugly, full of horrifying images and not in the least bit afraid of telling the story as he saw it, right there in front of his eyes.<br />Rashid then goes on to give the international reader an insight into the inner workings of the Taliban movement from various angles -: its interpretation of the Koran, its social policies, its reliance on revenue from the drugs trade (a Pakistani/CIA invention) and its relationship with international terrorists such as Osama bin Laden.  The accounts are factual, not judgemental - ideal for those who want to make up their own mind.   <br />The final seventy pages are a delight for Great Game fans since Rashid dives deep into the dark seedy world of international politics, the oil industry and how Afghanistan was/is a buffer between the competing interests of a vast array of players such as Russia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, the United States and many, many others including Argentina ... yes Argentina.  <br />It ends with an almost melancholy plea on behalf of ordinary Afghanis.  Leave us alone to run our own country is the message.  After reading its 244 pages you'll probably agree. <br />My own belief is that Peter Hopkirk's book `The Great Game'  might actually be a better place to start.  Hopkirk's classic is a one-in-a-million trip through the Anglo-Soviet `Cold War' of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the blood-curdling Afghan wars and the race to colonise what are now known as the central Asian republics.  Is it any wonder people are full of loathing for interfering foreigners?<br />The only difference these days is that the British have dropped out of sight - except for the SAS that is.	2001-09-29
US	50267916	R2V5XU1PY1EVP8	0312230796	93948639	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856	Books	3	26	28	N	N	A good sturdy account from the British perspective	Crimea is a good, sturdy, British account of one of history's least understood crises. The build up, the major battles, the rivalries between the allied powers and the Turks, the shameful hospital conditions, the Charge of the Light Bridgade and the lingering effects on European politics that eventually led to WW1 are all there. Royle writes well, although his style is a wee bit pompous and pro-British for my liking. <br />Previous reviewers have complained about the lack of maps. There are maps but they are hand drawn affairs and aren't listed in the table of contents. Why? The mind boggles. It would have taken five minutes to prepare a list. There's no chronology either - a major omission given how little is known and how little has been written on the subject. <br />The other complaint I have is the book's attempt to cover everything without covering anything in detail. For example, it is widely believed that Florence Nightingale was a hero and the instigator of modern medical facilities. Royle thinks not and casts aspersions without ever coming up with evidence. Field battles come and go in the middle chapters without a sub-text explaining where everything was heading. <br />But, even though there are problems, Crimea isn't a bad book. In fact, it's quite good and has a fast paced text that is so often missing in books of this kind. I liked the sections on the build up best since you get a good feel for the state of mind in the major centres of Constantinople, St. Petersburg, Paris and London. The final sections too, on the long term effects of the war and the peace treaty are pretty good too. <br />In all a good book. Sturdy, highly readable and without errors if you know how to read and write in The Queen's English. Three stars.	2001-09-29
US	50267916	R2JPQ8T3ZOI4DT	0679764364	424558650	The Russian Century: A History of the Last Hundred Years	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Journalism at its best	Moynahan's journalistic instincts are to the fore in this fast moving account of one of history's great upheavals. The author has plenty of experience covering Russia as a journalist at The Times. The coverage doesn't just take in the politics or revolution. There's social history, art and lifestyle - as well as all the gruesome stuff involving purges, genocide and the death camps in eastern siberia. <br />It also has some wonderful pictures - especially one showing an old woman experiencing voting for the first time.  Something that is so familiar to most of us was so alien to her.  She was ninety and old enough to remember Tsar Nicholas. <br />The coverage is heavily bent towards the first half of the century since most of the action took place then.  Moynahan's big picture style means that you really get a feel for how traumatic and vengeful these times were for ordinary people.  The revolutions and the spread of communist power throughout the empire was quite simply government by a gang of murderous thugs. Fiends of the worst possible kind with a liking for violence. <br />The end of the party and the Russian Empire is dealt with only lightly since the book was first written in the early 1990s.  (I read the 1994 version and haven't got around to reading an updated version).  That, I don't, think is a big issue since most readers will have been around long enough to have a pretty good handle on the Gorbachev and Yeltsin years anyway. <br />All too often, these types of histories are academic (often mind numbing) and/or far too long.  This one is short, sucinct and highly entertaining.  In fact, anyone wishing to get into the excellent accounts of the revolution by Figes or Pipes should read this one first.	2001-09-24
US	50267916	R1MJUMTVUZRZHY	1568360703	635347444	The Desert Road to Turkestan (Kodansha Globe)	Books	2	5	17	N	N	Three attempts and still at page three	I got to page three on three occasions and it's now collecting dust. Owen Lattimore may have been a explorer and a beacon for sensible China research during the US witch hunt days, but this isn't gripping travel writing.  Maybe it's the fact that he uses old fashioned transliteration of Chinese names, I don't know, but I just couldn't get into it. <br />I'll definitely try again, another time.  First hand accounts from explorers heading off into the wild blue yonder are normally hard to put down. If ony Lattimore could write like Great Game guru Peter Hopkirk. What a shame.	2001-09-23
US	50267916	R3897SPCY72R5U	1862043582	254511183	God's Secret Formula: The Deciphering of the Riddle of the Universe and the Prime Number Code	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Utter garbage	I read this book about four years ago and still wonder what it was actually about - Joan Miro makes more sense to my mother. Imagine publishing claims that you discovered the fourth dimension while staring into your bathroom mirror. And then expecting people to take you seriously. <br />If one of the reviewers who liked this book wants to reveal God's Secret Formula to me I'd be delighted to hear from them.  I'm never going to find out what it is by reading this narcissistic rubbish. 'Nil Points!'as they say at Eurovision.	2001-09-23
US	50267916	REWMN2HD4AO47	0471404217	214002412	Marking Time: The Epic Quest to Invent the Perfect Calendar	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A best seller by an articulate expert on time	This is a comprehensive and flowing account of the development of the world's adopted calendar. It is, by far, the best book I've read on the subject of time keeping. The so-called 'best sellers' that everyone seems to have read can't hold a candle to the breadth of experience contained here. <br />Steel's style may be a bit too chatty for some and too full of anecdotes about his youth in England and his experiences in the US and Austrialia. But then the author is a seriously good astronomer and this topic involves some pretty lateral concepts. He keeps you on board by making it fun and there's a detailed appendix at the back where all the relevant astronomical details are introduced in an easy style .... just in case you aren't an astronomer. <br />Marking Time's main aim is to explain why the Julian calendar was replaced. The modern calendar designed under Pope Gregory was built to reflect the length of time it takes the earth to pass between successive vernal equinoxes in March. Since the vernal year is almost constant, Pope Gregory's calendar is pretty accurate in tracking the time span between vernal equinoxes. The Julian version was a first approximation and therefore suffers from great inaccuracy over the centuries. <br />There were calendar proposals made by others in the middle ages that were even more accurate. Why were they rejected? Steel tells you why.<br />Steel also has an interesting religious-political theory for why the British finally adopted the calendar for it's empire in the mid-eighteenth century. It's all to do with the 77th meridian and Protestant England's fight against the Catholic church. I'd never read this stuff before - or his theory that universal time might be better measured from the US east coast - and was gripped. The freshness of his style is what made this book so memorable.<br />Marking Time's other aim is explain why you can't build a calendar for all the ages. It simply isn't possible. The earth's orbit around the sun is slowing down. So what is accurate today clearly won't be in the future. The lunar orbit isn't constant either so a lunar based calendar won't solve your problem. In any case, a day is only 24 hours long on four occasions in a year and the year itself can be defined in more than one way depending on whether you're looking at the sun or the stars.<br />After reading this book you'll realise there are a lot of very clever people in the world and also a lot of very silly laymen writing books on subjects they clearly don't understand. Duncan Steel isn't one of the silly people. You'll learn a lot from Marking Time that will fundamentally change the way you look at the world ........ and your watch.	2001-09-18
US	50267916	R19ADL6SER458E	0471188794	706783876	Investment Timing and the Business Cycle (Frontiers in Finance Series)	Books	2	14	18	N	N	A superficial survey of US investment returns since 1975	This book isn't worth the money. The only Frontier in Finance that I went through was my sense of value for money. I can't believe I paid US$53 inc. postage for something so superficial. Anyone who works in the dismal science or financial markets will learn nothing from this book. It's little more than a survey of US investment returns from the mid-1970s. Non-US markets get scant attention and the chapters on bonds are wearisome. <br />In any case, anyone running a portfolio should know by day two that commodities, cash, bonds and equities perform differently at different stages of the business cycle - and, more often than not, in ways that most people don't expect. Often, but not by any means always, it's the information that isn't publicly available that drives relative asset prices. Investors caught up in any of the recent Emerging Markets crises now know this only too well. <br />Taylor's main audience seems to be the small time investor who punts US stocks - i.e. the type who thinks that equities actually make you richer without upping the stakes. But that type of investor is normally into momentum trading and that has nothing to do with business cycles. <br />Sadly, it is rather hard to see how the information in this book would be of any value to ordinary people.  Explaining economics and the meaning of economic statistics to small time punters is often like trying to teach Americans the rules of cricket.	2001-09-06
US	50267916	R268DZQD9CNKWN	0137929129	675814370	Economics for Professional Investors (2nd Edition)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Simple, easy to read and spot on	Economics for Professional Investors is one of the best economics texts around. It's much better than all the highly mathematical rubbish that comes out of academics. This is a hands on, do-it-yourself, economics manual by a professional economist who works in the financial markets and knows how to communicate. Lee covers all the ground necessary to understanding how economic policy leads to bull and bear phases in the stock and bond markets. This is the only text I know of which clearly describes how buying and selling of goods and services affects the balance sheets of ordinary people, companies, the banks and the central bank. It's the sort of book that leaves you feeling you've actually learnt something useful. Naturally it's very monetarist. Some will like this. Others will hate it for much the same reason.	2001-08-22
US	50267916	RDCR2GKROAOBE	0195101138	132462302	Golden Fetters: The Gold Standard and the Great Depression, 1919-1939 (NBER Series on Long-term Factors in Economic Development)	Books	5	80	81	N	N	A tremendous trip into la-la land	Barry Eichengreen's classic tale of financial hubris and mismanagement is almost ten years old. But it's still riveting. It's a broad-sweep introduction for generalists and financial buffs alike. And it's very well written too.<br />The book begins by describing the inner workings of the gold standard and how it evolved from its inception in the 1800s. This part may be a bit dry for generalists, but once underway all the terms become quite easy to understand. It's worth persevering since WW1changed the way the world worked. In particular, the after effects of the war made staying on gold much more difficult for countries experiencing persistent balance of payments deficits. <br />After that, Eichengreen goes on a tour of the interwar years and aims to show why the collapse of the gold standard and the plunge into depression had nothing to do with the US stock market and everything to do with rivalries and mismanagment on an international scale. The US crash was a symptom of an international crisis, not the cause.<br />All the classic powderkegs are there. The UK's mindless attempt to rejoin the gold standard at the overvalued, pre-war rate. Vindictive French domestic politics and the hyperinflations in continental Europe. Vindictive French attempts to humiliate the Germans over reparations. Bank runs in Germany and Austria. French and American attempts to bend the rules of the Gold Standard for their own national interests. Wild swings in capital flows from Europe to the US and back again. And the cataclysmic days of 1931 when the whole system collapsed under the weight of banking crises and currency contagion - in ways very similar to Asia in 1997. <br />After the crash, we get down to the Great Depression and who fared the best. This part is much shorter since it isn't as complicated. Basically, those countries that devalued quickly and went the free market route fared much better than those that didn't. Sweden was a star performer. The US can be found towards theback of the class. Dear old Blighty gets full marks for going solo, although more recent evidence shows this had more to do with throwing in the towel than playing with new ideas. <br />Strangely there's little mention of Japan. Nippon took a beating in the late 1920s while the yen remained fixed to gold. Once sterling devalued, the Japanese followed suit. The recovery was swift and full blooded. But the central bank forgot to stop the printing press once growth returned and ended up fighting hyperinflation in the late 1930s. So Eichengreen's line that giving up was the great panacea isn't quite as true as he'd have you believe. <br />All told, Golden Fetters is great. While it lacks facts and figures on banking problems and doesn't really provide convincing evidence on contagion, it works really well as a diary of contrasting fortunes in Europe and the US after the guns fell silent in 1918. If you like history then this is for you.	2001-08-02
US	50267916	R39ALANL066RQP	1550138960	672553083	Fear, Greed and the End of the Rainbow: Guarding Your Assets in the Coming Bear Market	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Charles MacKay is laughing in his grave	I love reading the reviews of this book.  The one from Canada in early 2000 should become a classic.  If only the reviewer had read some financial history and maybe 'Extraordinary Popular Delusions &amp; The Madness of Crowds' by Charles Mackay. He'd have realised that the 90s IT-bubble was nothing new and merely the latest in a long line of manias that date back centuries.  They all had sad and sorry endings.  This one was no different.<br />Full marks to Sarlos for having the guts to publish contrarian views with such impeccable timing. It just goes to prove that American investors can be just as unsophisticated as their so-called Emerging Markets couterparts.	2001-07-08
US	50267916	R33JRDQCLW3PR0	0815711891	271210760	Globaphobia: Confronting Fears about Open Trade	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A little gem	Globaphobia is a great little text on the benefits of free trade. If only some of those protesting about the evils of capitalism actually took the time to educate themselves. They might then see that everyone benefits from free trade; developing countries have more jobs and developed countries higher real wages; consumers everywhere get greater choice. <br />There will always be losers - as the book makes clear. But that's a fact of life whichever economic creed you follow. There are significantly fewer losers in Asia now that forty years of economic liberalisation have raised income levels from paddy field to first world standards.  This book explains why - in crisp simple terms.	2001-06-30
US	50267916	RUY7K12Q7QHR9	088132289X	228063071	Japan's Financial Crisis and Its Parallels to U.S. Experience (Special Report (Institute for International Economics))	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Super run through of Japan's malaise	Recently, Adam Posen (an influential US monetary economist)has written some really good stuff on Japan's economic problems.  It was his name on the cover that persuaded me to buy this book.  <br />If you want a rich and in depth - in some parts academic - account of why Japan is struggling then this is for you.  There are four themes...1) the origin of Japan's banking problems 2)comparisons of Japan's banking problems and the US S&amp;L crisis 3) political problems faced by those who wish to see the BOJ adopting very loose money and 4) how the BOJ's monetary policy can be adapted to these exceptional circumstances and used to promote a sustainable recovery. <br />If you read this and Posen's previous books on Japan you'll be well equipped to understand what is wrong with the world's second largest economy.  The only weak area is the treatment of fiscal matters.  Those are largely ignored, even though fears of government bankrupcty weigh heavily on the financial markets.	2001-06-30
US	50267916	R3EYHYTD3D9V33	0198731353	707766307	The Nineteenth Century: Europe 1789-1914 (Short Oxford History of Europe)	Books	3	27	30	N	N	A good overview with maps, chronology and reading tips	The book begins in 1789 and ends in 1914, taking the theme that the nineteenth century was about peace and development - not about war.  It starts with revolution in 1789 and ends with the disastrous events of August 1914....a revolution since it made the United States a global power and shaped the Twentieth Century. In the middle there is peace...well, relative peace.  <br />The Nineteenth Century is split into six sections - domestic politics, culture, society, economics, international politics and imperialism - and attempts to be an overview that will appeal to everyone.  I found the sections on imperialism, politics &amp; economics the most interesting ... although the most readable sections of the book are the intro and finale written by the editor. <br />The book contains a really great chronology of the main events during the period.  The biblio leaves the reader with plenty of follow up leads.  And the publishers also provide pretty detailed maps of Europe and the world at various points along the way.<br />Faults-wise, there are a few.  One, it's not really a blow-by-blow account of the main events.  It's more of a big picture or thematic overview and the reader may be susceptible to attention fatigue unless gripped by a need to know.  Two, you don't really go away with a real sense of what happened to the world, because of what occurred in 19th century Europe.  The linkeages are left for you to fill.  Fair enough, but one chapter wouldn't have hurt.	2001-06-30
US	50267916	R2KX03896NSXW5	0060924152	174198300	They All Laughed... From Light Bulbs to Lasers: The Fascinating Stories Behind the Great Inventions That Have Changed Our Lives	Books	2	2	19	N	N	Few laughs, fascintating not	I read this one after finding it mentioned in Bill Bryson's Made in America.  Since the former isn't very interesting, it's no surprise that this one isn't either.  If you want chatty anecdotes about the inventors and their madness, this is for you. If you want to see how inventors have really made an impact on the twentieth century and living standards, then you'll have to dig a bit harder.	2001-06-26
US	50267916	R226Z8SBVUH20Z	0380793245	602853146	Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Light headed history	This is a so-so account of man's attempt to map time.  On the plus side, Calendar gives you a good and broad account of the main developments throughout the last 2500 years.  It's a bit cheesy in places and really only deals with events surronding the development of the Julian and Gregorian calendars.  But it's not bad as a first attempt at the story.  `Marking Time: The Epic Quest to Invent the Perfect Calendar' by astronomer Duncan Steel is much better though. <br />On the negative side, it's far too long and lacks credibility when dealing with numbers, astronomy and almost anything technical.  Imagine a book written by an author who can't work out that if Jesus of Nazarath was born in 4BC, and there is no year zero dividing the BC and AD eras, then the year 2000 is actually 2004 and the new millenium began on 1st January 1997.  If he's claiming that 1997 was really 2000, then he's also wrong.  That honour went to 1996.  <br />Just run an excel spreadsheet.  Begin column 1 with -4 and then column 2 with 1 (omitting the zero between-1 and +1 in column 1).  Run them side-by-side up to 2004.   You'll get the answer in a flash.  Why couldn't DED or his editor(s) have done this?  It's very easy.  In any case, there is still considerable doubt about the actual date of Christ's birth - with estimates ranging from 7BC to 3BC.   <br />Also, its explanation of the Easter Computus just doesn't work.  Nor does it explain why the calculation doesn't use the actual full moon, but uses ecclesiastical time instead - since this means that Passover and Easter (almost) never coincide.  It's account of the failings of the Atomic Clock are sheer nonsense.  And there is nothing to show the reader why the Gregorian calendar was designed to reflect the time between successive vernal equinoxes. <br />There are some bits I did like about Calendar.   There easy bits on the development of the Julian calendar, placement mathematics in Arabia and India and then the decimal system involving thefirst use of the concept of zero.   These chapters are quite good since it was mathematical developments that proved pivotal in increasing the accuracy of calendars.   <br />This was also the first time I read about the confusion that reigned after the Gregorian calendar was adopted in the mid-16th century.   Only Catholic countries obeyed the Pope's orders.  Protestant states eventually joined in (mostly for economic reasons), but at different times over the next 250 years.  The result was total confusion in Europe and it's colonial territories.  I also now understand why the United Kingdom's tax year begins on seemingly bizarre date of 6th April - a throw back to the Julian calendar, the old New Year and the usual religious jiggery-pokery. <br />Overall, not bad.  ...	2001-06-26
US	50267916	R2D144TT7ZULRG	0691002452	634868214	Globalizing Capital: A History of the International Monetary System (IMF)	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Great macro text but very G7 centric	Barry Eichengreen's book Gold Fetters is a classic on the Gold Standard and the Great Depression. The cover of this one claims that it will become a classic on the international monetary system. While it's good, it certainly isn't a classic. It's a great book, but spoilt by its lack of breadth. <br />Globalizing Capital is full of details and gives readers a terrific account of how mainstream exchange rates were managed (or weren't) in the period from 1870 to 1997. Each of the four main chapters is self contained (1870-1914, 1918-1944, 1944-1973, 1973-1997).<br />Globalizing Capital has two broad threads. Firstly, the only periods in recent history when exchange rates have been stable have occurred when there have been a) high levels of international co-operation or b) periods when governments have been able to choose between high capital mobility and extending democracy. Trying to court both the masses and international traders has often been the trigger for banking and currency crises. <br />The second theme is the choice between fixed and floating regimes. The world nowadays is characterised by instantaneous communications and highly mobile capital. Small countries can chose to float and large groups with deep interlinks can form monetary unions, but the rest are faced with increasingly unpleasant choices. As capital becomes more mobile, the choices faced by those left in the middle will become even more perilous. <br />While the theoretical line is flawless, the content isn't. Globalizing Capital is extremely G7-centred and gives little if any indication that there was a world outside the North Atlantic until Japan emerged in the 1960s. There is little mention of the history of colonial currency boards prior to Hong Kong in the early 1980s, no attempt to tackle the issues thrown up by recent debt crises in Latin America and nothing on transition countries in Eastern Europe and Asia who dispensed with central planning and multiple exchange rates in the 1990s.	2001-06-02
US	50267916	R1V8SR23O35LDF	0262700441	187258608	Lessons from the Great Depression (Lionel Robbins Lectures)	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Taking the long view	Temin's account of the Great Depression differs in almost every from the standard texts.  Austrian business cycles, monetary tightness etc. are all passed over as the author goes for the big picture....the long view of political history in Europe.  <br />The Great Depression was the direct result, he says, of the breakdown of peace in the first decade of the twentieth century.  The international spirit of co-operation that had existed throughout most of the second half of the 19th century evaporated with the European struggles for empire.  So when crisis loomed in the late 1920s all the lifeboats were full of holes.  Franco-German rivallry, the demise of the British Empire and isolationism in the United States all produced paralysis when leadership was needed most. <br />When leadership finally did arrive, it came in the form of social democracy and labour market rigidities which put a floor under the markets but extended the depression in ways not dissimilar to Japan in the 1990s. <br />If you like your economics filled with Keynes and history this is for you.  If Friedman or Schumpeter is more to your taste, then this is worth reading just to see what the other side thinks.  <br />Great stuff.	2001-06-02
US	50267916	R3E1C1ZQUQZTKF	0472066676	987929288	The Great Depression: An International Disaster of Perverse Economic Policies	Books	2	15	23	N	N	An irritating mish-mash	If you have no idea what happened to the world economy in the two decades following WW1, then this little book is a great primer. It contains a lovely chronology of events, discusses in a simplistic way how the gold standard actually worked, how the real bills doctrine impeded effective monetary loosening and how Roosevelt prolonged the depression. It's a (mostly) monetarist view and easy to understand at that. <br />On a second read though, 'The Great Depression' becomes very irritating; for three reasons.... <br />The first is its changing view of the causes of decline and recovery. It starts out monetarist but ends up closer to the Austrian view that government intervention and socialism prolonged the recovery.  You can't be both, although the authors try very hard. <br />The second problem is the use of history.  Many historically minded authors have made a big issue of the vicious Versailles Peace Treaty and its role in destabilising the international payments system.  Hall and Ferguson hardly mention international issues.  Instead, they waffle on about Hitler's evil labour policies, but forget to mention their effect.  Huge capital flows left Europe for the New World in the mid-1930s and these played a very significant role in boosting US money supply and spurring recovery.  <br />The third problem is the book's very simplistic economics. At the heart of the problem was the issue of real exchange rate adjustment amongst Gold Standard members.  The authors make no attempt to explain the extent of the adjustment problems when members faced either hyperinflation or balance of payments deficits after 1918.  <br />Countries facing BOP deficits with newly enfranchised labour forces were in no position to use traditional means of real exchange rate adjustment - i.e. deflation - to bring their currencies and payments accounts back into line.  Social unrest was everywhere.  Impossible strain was placed on domestic economies as interest rates went up.  And when Austrianbank, Bank Kredit-Anstalt, failed, the international payments system fell apart and asset prices collapsed.  No one had the guts to raise rates to hold currencies within their trading ranges.<br />Hall and Ferguson gloss over the international angle as if it was irrelevant.  They could at least have tried to explain why they thought it wasn't important or didn't play a central role. <br />All told, I'd recommend this book to anyone coming across this fascinating period for the first time.  But there are much better books out there.  Also, parochial books with constant references to us and ours when referring to the US and its institutions are really tiresome to non-US readers.<br />Two stars for the technical bits, the chronology and the details of Roosevelt's New Deal.	2001-04-10
