US	50269104	RLZSYZMVDK05A	155622902X	935042543	ShaderX2: Introduction &amp; Tutorials with Directx 9 (Wordware Game Developer's Library)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nice book with some flaws	ShaderX2 is broken in to two volumes, with this volume intended as an introduction to shader related topics to prepare the reader for the other volume, or for other shader books. It fills that role fairly well, though it does have a few shortcomings that keep it from being a great book.<br /><br />The book starts off with an extensive, well-written introduction to HLSL that most beginners to the language will find quite helpful. This is followed by a handy introduction to Shader Model 3.0, which explains the changes that have been made since 2.0, and the practical applications of these changes and additions.<br /><br />The next several chapters are devoted to implementing \\"foundational\\" techniques using shaders. The first covers several lighting and shading techniques, providing sample shader implementations in HLSL and assembly. Most of the shaders come in multiple versions for the various shader models, which is useful for supporting these techniques on a wide range of platforms, as well as in understanding the capability differences between each model.<br /><br />The next chapter covers five different fog effects using HLSL shaders. Then there are two chapters on shadows, one on shadow mapping and the other on shadow volumes. The latter weighs in at over 80 pages, providing in-depth coverage of the theory behind the technique.<br /><br />Next up is a tutorial for using the shader development environment RenderMonkey. The usefulness of this chapter is marred by the fact that the current version of RenderMonkey has undergone some interface changes such that the text is now out of synch with the tool, making it a bit more difficult to follow along. Still, if you can work through this, the chapter will help you quickly get up and running with RenderMonkey.<br /><br />The last chapter of the book is about creating shader-friendly models. This chapter seems out of place since it's written more for artists than programmers (who are clearly the audience for the rest of the book), and the chapter is too brief and vague to be of much value.<br /><br />If you're new to shaders and HLSL, you'll likely find this book useful, though it's a little expensive for a small book (I imagine the color plates contribute to this). If the shadow and fog chapters had been moved to the other ShaderX2 book, and the final chapter had been dropped, I think that they could have reduced the price considerably and made the book more focused, turning it into a great value. As it is, though, it's still a good book that many people will benefit from.rest of the book), and the chapter is too brief and vague to be of much value. <br /> <br />If you're new to shaders and HLSL, you'll likely find this book useful, though it's a little expensive for a small book (I imagine the color plates contribute to this). If the shadow and fog chapters had been moved to the other ShaderX2 book, and the final chapter had been dropped, I think that they could have reduced the price considerably and made the book more focused, turning it into a great value. As it is, though, it's still a good book that many people will benefit from.	2005-05-03
US	50269104	RRF1VJCCOX9A8	155860863X	629463768	Essential Mathematics for Games and Interactive Applications: A Programmer's Guide (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Interactive 3d Technology)	Books	5	43	46	N	N	One of the best game math books	If only every topic in game and graphics programming were covered as well as math. Over the past several years, a number of exceptionally good books covering math for game and graphics programming have been released, and I've had the opportunity to review most of them. Although, not surprisingly, there is some overlap between them all, each covers unique material and presents information in an original way so that collectively, the books provide an impressive body of work.<br /><br />Essential Mathematics stands out as one of the best books in the pack, especially in regards to its coverage of the math behind low-level rendering techniques.<br /><br />The book is broken into 4 parts. The first part, Core Mathematics, covers vectors and matrices, transformations, and number representation. This part will be useful to anyone doing 3D graphics.<br /><br />Part II, Rendering, covers topics such as lighting and shading, texturing, projection, and rasterization. This part was of particular interest to me because I've been working on a commercial renderer, but it should also be useful to those who want a better understanding of what graphics engines do under the hood.<br /><br />Part III, Animation, covers curves (very in depth) and representation of orientations (Euler vs. axis-angle vs. quaternions). Finally, Part IV, Simulation, covers intersection testing and rigid body dynamics. There are also a couple of appendices to help you brush up on trig and calculus, if needed.<br /><br />The book includes many C++ code samples and demos, including a handy math library and a simple rendering/game engine using OpenGL and GLUT. The authors are to be commended for their writing style as well. It's very easy for a book of this nature to get bogged down in an extremely heavy academic tone, but this book manages to avoid that, making for a remarkably easy read.<br /><br />I'm glad I don't have to choose just one game math book, but if I did, this would probably be the one I'd pick.e I'd pick.	2005-04-28
US	50269104	R2ELY0TI7TWDYF	012229064X	534669567	3D Game Engine Architecture: Engineering Real-Time Applications with Wild Magic (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Interactive 3D Technology)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Finally!	One of the criticisms I had of Dave Eberly's previous 3D Game Engine Design is that it didn't really say much about how to design an engine. Rather, it focused mostly on the programming/implementation details, which was disappointing to some. This new book is what many people expected from the older book.<br /><br />In this book, the author walks through the design and architecture of a 3D game engine, using his Wild Magic engine as an example, but also drawing on his experience developing NDL's NetImmerse. Throughout, he describes why each design decision was made, and in many cases alternative solutions are discussed as well. This isn't just a high level discussion, however, as ample source code, figures, equations, and sample applications are included to get you started with implementation.<br /><br />The topics covered include the core engine systems, scene graphs, renderers, cameras, LOD, animation, terrain, special effects, physics and collision detection. Numerous sample applications and tools are also included. Dave's writing style is clear and minimally conversational, and he's kept the math to a minimum, making this a remarkably easy read.<br /><br />This isn't a complete treatment of a game engine, since some important topics (e.g. scripting, audio) aren't included, but the material it does cover is worth it. Whether you're currently working on a game engine, planning to start one, or just want to have a better understanding of how they work, you'll be happy with this book.	2005-04-17
US	50269104	R1OF3OMYK3B494	1558605932	409045230	3D Game Engine Design: A Practical Approach to Real-Time Computer Graphics (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Interactive 3D Technology)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Good, but not what you might expect	I read this a few years ago, and have referred back to it many times, but I only recently realized that I neglected to write a review of it.<br /><br />This book is well-written and contains a lot of useful information. The author is one of the few people qualified to write a book of this nature, and he has done an admirable job. That said, the title is pretty misleading, since the book has very little to say about the design of a game engine. Instead, it focuses on implementation details and the math involved with them. Topics covered include geometrical methods, the graphics pipeline, tree-based scene graphics, intersections, collision detection, curves and surfaces, animation, terrain, spatial sorting (quad/octrees, portals, BSPs), special effects, object-oriented infrastructure, and numerical methods. The author doesn't gloss over anything, providing detailed mathematical derivations of how things work.<br /><br />Unfortunately, the math is so heavy that unless you're already pretty familiar with the subject matter, you'll probably have a hard time with the book. Therefore, I think that the target audience is much smaller that the group that would be attracted by the title.<br /><br />If you're involved in game engine development or just want to deepen your knowledge, I think you'll appreciate the fact that the author doesn't pull any punches. Otherwise, you'll probably be more interested in the author's new book 3D Game Engine Architecture, which was recently released.	2005-04-15
US	50269104	R1D33KHHU8VWBA	0321197895	336932094	OpenGL(R) Shading Language	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Joins the OpenGL canon	The OpenGL Shading Language is without doubt the most important addition to OpenGL since its inception, and this book provides an excellent guide to programming with it. As one of the primary contributors to the development of the language, Rost provides a clear and well-written explanation of the language and how to use it.<br /><br />The book begins with a review of OpenGL basics, followed by an introduction to shaders and how they fit into the pipeline. It then covers the language itself, including data types, operators, interaction with the OpenGL state machine and fixed function pipeline, built-in functions, and more. It also introduces and explains the OpenGL APIs needed to use shaders.<br /><br />The last half of the book focuses on shader development, including general process and workflow, and coverage of many specific techniques, such as procedural textures and GPU-based animation. It even includes a section on implementing the fixed function pipeline using shaders.<br /><br />The book ends with a handy comparison of GLSL with other shading languages, such as Cg and HLSL, and a couple of appendices providing a language grammar and API reference.<br /><br />If you're doing shader development with OpenGL, you'll definitely want this book on your desk. My only complaint about it is that it was written before GLSL was officially promoted to the core. When that happened, a number of important things were changed that aren't reflected in the book. However, determining the differences isn't difficult, so don't let that deter you from picking this up.	2005-04-12
US	50269104	RK4L1SFCBWIAY	1584502770	340284119	Mathematics for 3D Game Programming and Computer Graphics, Second Edition	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Even better than the first edition	I gave the first edition of this book a 5 star rating, so considering that the second edition provides updates to the original as well as four new chapters, it's no surprise that the second edition earns a 5 star rating as well.<br /><br />The new material includes a brief but informative chapter covering graphics pipeline essentials. This should make the book somewhat more accessible for beginners - though it'll still be daunting for someone without at least high school level math. The shadow volume coverage from the first book has been broken out into its own chapter and greatly expanded. The remaining two chapters are dedicated to numerical methods and curves and surfaces.<br /><br />If you already own the first edition of the book, then the updates and new chapters probably aren't worth the cost. Otherwise, considering that they retail at the same price, there's no reason not to get this edition instead of the first. It's an excellent resource for anyone who wants a deep and broad knowledge of 3D math.	2004-10-05
US	50269104	R1LRXUNVCT1AX3	0321194969	166550311	The CG Tutorial: The Definitive Guide to Programmable Real-Time Graphics	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good intro to shaders	This is a well written book covering the Cg shading language. It contains a lot of useful information about Cg and graphics programming techniques in general. Unfortunately, I felt like it didn't cover as much of Cg as I would have liked, making the book less useful than it could have been.<br />The book starts with a history of shaders and programmable hardware, an overview of Cg, and a summary of related technologies, such as HLSL and CgFX. It then spends some time covering the syntax and semantics of Cg, and then moves on to the core material of the book, in which the authors explain key graphics pipeline functionality and how it can be implemented using Cg. The book concludes with several appendices covering the Cg runtime, CgFX file format, and Cg standard library, as well as other reference material.<br />The topics covered include transformations, animation, lighting, environment mapping, bump mapping, fog, shadow mapping, toon shading, and projective texturing. The explanations are all clear and understandable, in particular the chapter on bump mapping, which is one of the easiest introductions to the topic I've encountered. Features of Cg are introduced as needed while explaining these topics, rather than introducing them all at once, which is very conducive to learning. In addition, the authors include warnings and workarounds for techniques which may not be supported on older hardware, as well as advice on attaining optimal performance.<br />I have two primary complaints about the book. The first is that they never really discuss the application code using the shaders, which made it a bit difficult to understand how they fit in at times. The second is that the book isn't nearly as complete a reference as you might expect. For a great deal of the functions and functionality in Cg, they simply refer you to the Cg reference manual. Although this electronic document is freely available, it's fairly brief at times, so a more detailed explanation in the book would have been appreciated. Similarly, I would have liked to have seen more detailed explanation of CgFX, as well as examples of using it.<br />Overall, though, this book does a very good job of introducing the reader to Cg and to shaders in general. If you're new to these topics, I'd recommend it. Even if you're a DirectX programmer intending to use HLSL, you'll find this book useful since the languages are identical (though the usage is of course different). If you're already an experienced graphics programmer with some knowledge of shaders, then you'll likely be able to find everything you need in the freely available documentation instead.uld have been appreciated. Similarly, I would have liked to have seen more detailed explanation of CgFX, as well as examples of using it.<br />Overall, though, this book does a very good job of introducing the reader to Cg and to shaders in general. If you're new to these topics, I'd recommend it. Even if you're a DirectX programmer intending to use HLSL, you'll find this book useful since the languages are identical (though the usage is of course different). If you're already an experienced graphics programmer with some knowledge of shaders, then you'll likely be able to find everything you need in the freely available documentation instead.	2004-06-04
US	50269104	R1DZ8WMC6K0E5Q	1584502959	352186228	Game Programming Gems 4 (Game Programming Gems Series) (v. 4)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Good addition to the series	The latest in this series of highly successful books delivers 60 new articles covering diverse game development topics. Once again, the articles are written by an impressive group of people that collectively represent a substantial amount of game industry experience. The writing style and editing is very good, as usual, with a professional but casual tone, making the articles easy to read.<br />Although all of the topics are relevant to game development, because they are typically very narrow in scope, your mileage will vary depending on what exactly you're working on. This is true for the entire series. It's likely that you won't be reading the book cover to cover, but rather a handful of chapters here and there as you need them. This fourth volume is particularly useful in that respect because it includes a comprehensive index of the first 4 volumes<br />Another noteworthy change is the addition of a physics section. Given how important physics has become in game development, this is a welcome addition. It's also interesting to see a couple of chapters that use Python and Java (though only one for each) for the sample code, rather than the C++ used for most of the chapters. DirectX is used for much of the sample code, with OpenGL being used in a few of the graphics chapters.<br />This volume does have a few shortcomings, which again are typical for the series. Due to the length of the articles (about 5 to 15 pages each), some of them were a bit too short to cover the topic with sufficient depth. This is pretty subjective, since many people may be satisfied with a more high-level explanation, but it seems to me that the series would be better served with a smaller number of slightly longer articles that go into greater depth.<br />I also think that the price of the book is rather high. True, it's hardbound, but similar books have been published (notably, GPU Gems, which is hardbound, the same length, and printed in full-color) with notably lower prices. Since the book covers such a broad range of topic areas - only a handful of which will be of interest to you - the value of this book is diminished somewhat.<br />Despite the price, this book is still an important part of any complete game programming library. If you have the previous volumes, you'll want to pick it up for the index if nothing else.book covers such a broad range of topic areas - only a handful of which will be of interest to you - the value of this book is diminished somewhat.<br />Despite the price, this book is still an important part of any complete game programming library. If you have the previous volumes, you'll want to pick it up for the index if nothing else.	2004-05-20
US	50269104	R1A5CHI2O0B78U	020161622X	158694092	The Pragmatic Programmer: From Journeyman to Master	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A modern classic	A friend of mine recommended this book to me a year ago and I finally got around to reading it. Not only do I wish I had taken him up on his recommendation immediately, I wish that I had read it years earlier. The book's subtitle &quot;from journeyman to master&quot; really sums it up nicely.<br />The book contains practical advice from experienced programmers that will help you become a more effective software developer. Unlike many books which dogmatically preach a specific methodology, this book focuses on (not-so-)common sense practices that are simple yet effective, as well as highlighting potential pitfalls to be avoided. Many of them can be applied to your own development process without requiring radical changes, while others will require team- or project-wide changes. Fortunately the nature of the recommended practices is such that you don't have to adopt all of them to be effective. You can pick and choose which ones are most appropriate and gradually incorporate them into your development process.<br />The range of topics covered is fairly broad, but the important themes are writing easy-to-maintain, reusable code, identifying and adjusting requirements quickly and effectively, managing large projects, and avoiding bad habits and developing good attitudes. Although I don't absolutely agree with everything the authors present, the justification they provide is thought stimulating and will probably change how you do things even if you don't consciously decide to adopt any of their practices.<br />I found the exercises (and their accompanying solutions) scattered throughout the book to be extremely useful in internalizing the principles being taught, as well as gauging how well I approach problem-solving. I'd highly recommend working through them as you read the book.<br />Finally, it's worth mentioning how enjoyable this book is to read. The authors' sense of humor and sprinkling of anecdotes make this an easy read without in any way detracting from the content.<br />If you're a brand new programmer, you probably won't appreciate many of the ideas presented in this book, but come back after you have a year or two of experience. Successful, experienced programmers will find that this book confirms many of the things you're already doing, while providing a lot of useful ideas to become even better. Even if you're not a programmer, but manage or otherwise work with programming teams, you'll find a lot of helpful information here. If there were one book I could require all of my coworkers to read, this would be it.tent.<br />If you're a brand new programmer, you probably won't appreciate many of the ideas presented in this book, but come back after you have a year or two of experience. Successful, experienced programmers will find that this book confirms many of the things you're already doing, while providing a lot of useful ideas to become even better. Even if you're not a programmer, but manage or otherwise work with programming teams, you'll find a lot of helpful information here. If there were one book I could require all of my coworkers to read, this would be it.	2004-04-15
US	50269104	R232S9T5G1OYMW	0321228324	265516122	GPU Gems: Programming Techniques, Tips and Tricks for Real-Time Graphics	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent!	I can't think of a topic that is more well-suited to a gems-style book than shaders, and given how important shaders have become in graphics and game development, I've been looking forward to this book since it was first announced.<br />The book consists of 42 articles covering techniques available on modern programmable GPUs. The articles were written by the most impressive collection of authors I've seen. Many of them are from NVIDIA, with the rest being from game development studios and other leaders in the graphics industry, both in academia and commercial development. Each chapter is approximately 15-20 pages long, which allows for greater depth than most gems-style books.<br />The topics covered include lighting, shadows, materials, image processing, performance tuning, water, fire, grass, skin (from the Dawn demo), and nontraditional uses of the GPU. The examples use either HLSL or Cg (and thankfully not assembly level shaders). Unfortunately, the OpenGL Shading Language was not complete at the time of the book's writing, but the examples should port easily.<br />As should be obvious from the NVIDIA logo on the cover, ATI wasn't involved with this book. Not surprisingly then, many of the demo programs included on the CD won't work on ATI hardware. This is unfortunate, since ATI hardware seems to be more popular at the high end right now, so many readers won't be able to run a lot of the demos. However, the techniques themselves should be readily portable.<br />As a nice bonus, the book is printed in full-color, which is definitely a welcome change as it makes it easier to visualize the results.<br />This is one of the most timely and relevant books currently available for graphics and game development. I highly recommend it to anyone involved with either.	2004-04-06
US	50269104	R3LQHVOFCAX40H	0375505245	880355515	Masters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an Empire and Transformed Pop Culture	Books	5	1	1	N	N	entertaining read	This was a really fun and engaging read. The book follows the story of John Carmack and John Romero from the time they started programming games, through the founding and rise of id Software and the Doom/Quake legacies, though Romero's departure to found Ion Storm, and ending around the time Ion Storm shut down and Romero founded Monkeystone. There has been a lot written about these events (in particular about Romero) so it was great to get an in-depth look at what really happened. There have been some concerns over its accuracy, but given that both Carmack and Romero had to sign off on it before it was published, it can't be too far off.<br />If you're into games at all you'll probably enjoy this book.	2004-04-01
US	50269104	R1X38XFAHS8COI	1558603875	991249790	Jim Blinn's Corner: A Trip Down the Graphics Pipeline (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Computer Graphics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Still a classic	This book is old enough (the original articles were written in '87-'92 - ancient history by graphics standards) that it probably isn't going to appeal to everyone, but any graphics geek should definitely check it out. Jim Blinn is a graphics god, and he shares his knowledge in an entertaining and easy-to-understand manner. As the title suggests, the topics covered center on core concepts in the graphics pipeline, such as homogenous coordinates, perspective correction, viewports, clipping, coordinate spaces, and so on. Whether you're writing a software renderer (as I am), writing shaders, or just want to better understand what goes on under the hood, you're sure to find something useful here.	2004-04-01
US	50269104	R3VWDRD55LWX2F	0131020099	93456284	Core Techniques and Algorithms in Game Programming	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of the best game dev books in recent years	Aspiring game programmers face a major challenge. There are plenty of good introductory books out there that will teach them enough to put together a basic game. Unfortunately, the leap from there to being able to program something approaching a commercial game is huge. There are articles and resources covering more advanced topics, but most of them assume a knowledge of several other topics that the reader may have never even heard of before.<br />That's where this book comes in. Core Techniques &amp; Algorithms in Game Programming provides an excellent survey of the most important topics in game programming and serves as a glue between beginning and advanced texts.<br />The topics covered include architectural issues such as game organization, data structures, and design patterns, over 100 pages of artificial intelliegence, scripting, networking, occlusion and LOD algorithms for both indoor and outdoor environments, animation and cinematography, shading (including BRDF, lightmapping, and NPR), organic rendering (trees, grass, oceans, clouds), particle systems (including useful performance tips), geometric algorithms, shaders, and an excellent appendix covering performance tuning. Each chapter also includes a list of resources that can be used for further study.<br />Each topic is covered in enough depth to give the reader a solid, clear understanding of each algorithm or technique without getting bogged down in details. The amount of code listed is limited (but useful), but any decent programmer should be able to easily take the techiniques described in the book and implement them in their language/API of choice. The book moves along at an brisk pace without giving a sense that any topic is being glossed over.<br />There are only a couple of minor negative points worth mentioning. The first is that there were a few topics (such as some of the basic 2D and 3D sections and the appendices covering Direct3D and OpenGL) that are covered quite well in most introductory books that could have been dropped to make room for other things. The second is that there were a couple of topics that could have used a bit more coverage. There's so much good information, though, that these shortcomings are easily overlooked.<br />This is one of the most important game development books to come out in the past several years. For new game programmers, it's a must-have. Even experienced game programmers may find this useful to fill in holes in their knowledge. I highly recommend adding this book to your library.books that could have been dropped to make room for other things. The second is that there were a couple of topics that could have used a bit more coverage. There's so much good information, though, that these shortcomings are easily overlooked.<br />This is one of the most important game development books to come out in the past several years. For new game programmers, it's a must-have. Even experienced game programmers may find this useful to fill in holes in their knowledge. I highly recommend adding this book to your library.	2004-03-08
US	50269104	R328C05T10I89G	1932111751	566978873	Game Coding Complete	Books	4	95	96	N	N	Good intro to undercovered topics	The title of this book suggests two things to me. The first is that it provides a complete guide to game coding. The second is that it fills the same role for game programming that the book Code Complete fills for programming in general, i.e. a journeyman's book that fills in the gaps left in introductory texts and broadens your knowledge to prepare you to move on to more advanced topics. Unfortunately by trying to do the former (which I don't think is possible in a single book), it falls a bit short on the latter, resulting in a (very) good book rather than the great book it could have been given the author's impressive background.<br />First, the bad.<br />It seems that the author never really decided what his audience is. Parts of the book (e.g. the introduction to 3D graphics) are written for total beginners, while others (such as the overview of game engines - all of which cost tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars to license) are really only relevant to experienced professionals. The author/publisher really should have picked an audience and stuck with it.<br />Some readers will be annoyed by how platform-specific this book is, which really isn't apparent from the cover copy or even the other reviews. All of the code samples use DirectX, and there is a lot of space dedicated to Windows-specific information. Granted, Windows and DirectX are by far the most popular choices for PC-based game development, so this won't be an issue for most readers.<br />And now for the good.<br />The best parts of this book were those covering topics that typically get overlooked in other game programming books, namely things like pointers and memory management, scripting, creating automated build enviroments and code/resource management, debugging, and notably the entire section on production, scheduling and testing. Although some of these topics are covered in other books that are not specific to game development, putting them in a single volume and exposing game developers to them early on is a Good Thing.<br />Although the sample code was fairly sparse, what he did provide was extremely useful, in particular the resource file implementation, random number generator, and scene graph.<br />Finally, props to the author for maintaining a website and actively supporting this book. As an author myself, I know how much work is involved in doing so, and I recognize that it reflects the author's desire to really help people and not just sell books.<br />In conclusion, my overall impression of this book was very positive. It's marred by a few shortcomings, but overall, I think that most new game programmers will benefit from it.o them early on is a Good Thing.<br />Although the sample code was fairly sparse, what he did provide was extremely useful, in particular the resource file implementation, random number generator, and scene graph.<br />Finally, props to the author for maintaining a website and actively supporting this book. As an author myself, I know how much work is involved in doing so, and I recognize that it reflects the author's desire to really help people and not just sell books.<br />In conclusion, my overall impression of this book was very positive. It's marred by a few shortcomings, but overall, I think that most new game programmers will benefit from it.	2004-02-17
US	50269104	R1O5R3E9QCMNJT	1584500379	508332285	Mathematics for 3D Game Programming & Computer Graphics (Game Development Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	For a rock-solid understanding of 3D math	This book provides a solid foundation for anyone who wants to develop a good understanding of the math behind computer graphics. The author provides clear and concise explanations of the concepts covered, backs them up with mathematical proofs, and usually discusses how the concepts can be applied in games, often with sample code. Each chapter has accompanying exercises that I recommended working through.<br />The topics covered include things you would expect like matrices, vectors, transformations, 3D geometry, and lighting, but also includes are topics like collision detection, ray tracing, visibility determination, and techniques such as billboarding and shadows. It concludes with several chapters on physics including fluid simulation, and a few useful appendices covering trig, complex numbers, and Taylor series.<br />If you're brand new to graphics and game programming and haven't had a math class in a while, then the somewhat textbook-like language may be a little daunting, but otherwise, this book is an excellent resource for those interested in solidifying their knowledge of 3D math.	2003-10-17
US	50269104	R9NNT1H41R2JJ	1556229119	566184218	3D Math Primer For Graphics and Game Development (Wordware Game Math Library)	Books	5	90	91	N	N	Very good book to get started with	The authors state early on that this book is intended as the first book an aspiring game programmer should read, and I would agree that for the most part it lives up to that goal. Many 3D game programming books include math primers covering a chapter or two, but really, 3D math is a huge topic deserving an entire volume. This book provides a great service, then, in that it thoroughly covers most of the basic topics that graphics programmers need to know, in a tutorial style that should be accessible to all beginners. Hopefully, we'll start to see more game programming books that focus on their core material and defer coverage of 3D math to books like this one rather than trying to pack unavoidably incomplete coverage into a few dozen pages.<br />So, what exactly does it cover? It starts off with a couple of chapters on coordinate systems, and then spends three chapters on vectors, followed by another three chapters on matrices and transformations. It then covers orientation, comparing matrix, Euler angle, and quaternion representations (including one of most clear explanations of quaternions that I've encountered), before diving into several chapters covering geometric primitives, including detailed coverage of working with triangle meshes.<br />The book closes with a chapter applying 3D math to graphics in areas such as lighting, fog, coordinates spaces, LOD, culling and clipping, and so on, and another chapter on visibility determination, touching on things like quad- and octrees, BSP trees, PVS, and portal techniques. The explanations in these chapters are much less complete, taking more of an overview approach. Others have criticized the book for this, but I feel that an overview is appropriate, since it then sets the stage for these topics to be covered in detail in other game programming books.<br />I'd definitely recommend this book to anyone just getting started with game and graphics programming.	2003-10-17
US	50269104	R2RJMPX5ZINKSJ	0761532994	345448590	Swords & Circuitry: A Designer's Guide to Computer Role-Playing Games (Game Development)	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Highly recommended	This book has been out for a few years, and unfortunately, it has never really received the attention it so richly deserves. From the title, you might infer that it teaches how to design role-playing games, which it does, but what might not be immediately obvious is that the information contained in it can be applied to games from any genre.<br />This book discusses everything from product life cycles, to plot design, to team roles, to world building, to gameplay issues, and much more. Each topic is covered in detail, with advice and examples. The book includes in-depth interviews with people behind some of the top role-playing games (e.g. Dungeon Siege and Neverwinter Nights), as well as copies of real design documents from leading games (e.g. the world layout from Fallout and the design document from Nox).<br />The Halfords' writing style is colorful without being condescending. Neal's experience shows through as he is able to back up all of his advice with real-world experience on major titles.<br />This is quite simply one of the best game design books on the market, and an entertaining read to boot. I give it my highest recommendation.	2003-10-04
US	50269104	R2KWYTKQ4ZTWQM	1584502940	981862739	The OpenGL Extensions Guide (Graphics Series)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good reference, but slightly disappointing	I've often been frustrated by the fact that it's often hard to find good documentation for OpenGL extensions. The information in the extension registry, as well as in the latest OpenGL spec (for extensions that have been promoted to the core) is generally intended for OpenGL implementers, not OpenGL developers, so there usually isn't much about how or why you would use the extension. Sometimes, you can find papers and demos from one of the hardware vendors, such as Nvidia or ATI, but more often than not, you're left figuring it out on your own.<br />So when I heard about this book, I was really looking forward to it. Given the high quality of the author's other works, I expected it to immediately take a place on my desk.<br />This book is essentially an expansion of the information contained in the extension registry. It's considerably more user-friendly, the explanations are more detailed, and it conveniently groups the extensions by their functional area. However, it really doesn't discuss how or why you would use each extension in a game or graphics application. Nor does it include any demos, or even sample code. These factors keep the book from being as useful as it could have been.<br />Overall, this is a good book, and it provides a great reference for the extensions it covers, but it could have gone farther with showing you how to use them.	2003-09-29
US	50269104	R2074MH77WFTNH	1592000282	389608266	Focus On 3D Terrain Programming (Game Development)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Good intro to the topic	Terrain rendering has become an increasingly hot topic as more and more games have included outdoor environments. There are many different ways to approach terrain rendering, and the articles covering these methods are scattered over various websites, journals, conference proceedings, etc. This book takes a number of the most popular of these methods and presents them in a clear, easy to understand way that is  be easily accessible to programmers who are new to the topic of terrain programming.<br />The methods covered include geomipmapping, quadtree-based terrain rendering, and ROAM - and it should be pointed out that the book also includes coverage of the ROAM 2 algorithm, which has not been officially published yet by its creator. Additional topics covered include simple collision detection, sky boxes and sky domes, and special effects such as water, particle systems, and fog. All of the topics covered are explained well, with a good mix of implementation and explanation.<br />The author's writing style may be a bit too conversational at times, and the material covered is mostly available from other sources, but overall, this book makes for a great introduction to terrain programming that I'd recommend to anyone interested in the topic.	2003-06-02
US	50269104	REO431W9SAT0R	1592000339	85313186	Focus On 3D Models (Game Development)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Fulfills its stated purpose well	This book covers the loading and handling of 3D models from the programmer's point of view (not the artist's, which may not be immediately obvious from the title). Like other Focus On books, it's short (checking in at just under 200 pages), but doesn't spend a lot of time on introductory material or subjects not related to the main topic.<br />The model formats covered by this book are Quake 2 (.md2), .obj, MilkShape, 3D Studio Max (.3ds), Half-life (.mdl), and Quake 3 (.md3). All of these formats are covered quite well, with sample code showing how to load, display and (when applicable) animate them. The exception is the Half-life format, for which he just uses the SDK, so there's no real information on the format itself. In addition to the specific formats, there are chapters on skeletal animation and useful tips on working with models.<br />My only real complaint is that about 1/4 of the book's pages are spent on covering vectors, matrices, quaternions, and STL vectors. Although knowledge of these topics is important for understanding the rest of the book, I'd suspect most readers will already be familiar with them. I would have preferred to have these chapters included on the CD instead, freeing up space for more useful information (detailed coverage of the Half-life format, perhaps?).<br />Overall, though, I was happy with the book. It's compact, inexpensive, an easy read, and it's nice to have the most common formats covered in one convenient volume. If you're looking for an introduction to using 3D models, or just want a physical reference for these formats to keep on your desk, I'd recommend it.	2003-05-13
US	50269104	RMWALY8IC88R6	1584500557	316864797	Game Modeling Using Low Polygon Techniques (Charles River Media Graphics)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Good Place to Start	This book seems to be targeted at beginning to intermediate game artists. The only assumption it makes is that you know how to use your modeler of choice. The book is written to be software independent, although the only samples provided on the CD are for 3D Studio Max.<br />The book takes you through the creation of a wide range of models, including a barbarian, a female marine, a couple of cartoonish characters, a horse, several vehicles, and a weapon. For each model, you are shown the step-by-step details at every phase of creation, including creating the concept art, turning the concept art into a base model, sculpting the model to it's final form, creating a UV map, and then texturing. Lots of screenshots are included (they take up about half of the book) making it easy to follow along.<br />Although the book is definitely useful to someone just starting out in modeling, it seems a little light on content. The fact that so many different models are used - some of which are similar to each other - means that a lot of the information is repeated. I would have preferred fewer models with unique attributes, and more space spent on different methods or tips and tricks.<br />Overall, though, I was happy with the book. If you're just getting started in game modeling, and want to see a lot of detailed examples of model creation, this book is definitely worth a look.	2002-05-03
US	50269104	R3C5NWDGYHFBZ4	0596000065	376274543	Physics for Game Developers	Books	4	42	44	N	N	A good place to start	This book provides a good starting point for anyone looking to introduce more realistic physics into their game. It provides an overview of the laws of mechanics, focusing on rigid body and particle dynamics. It then takes these principles and applies them to specific simulations which often come up in games, such as projectiles, cars, airplanes, and hovercraft. The math is simplified, so the results are not always completely accurate, but they should be good enough for many games.<br />The book does have several shortcomings which prevent it from being a great book, the most important of which is that the content is fairly limited. It's less than 300 pages, and a significant amount of space (especially in the later chapters) is taken by source code listings. Of course, this is somewhat offset by the book's relatively low price.<br />If you buy this expecting it to be the ultimate guide to physics in games, you'll be disappointed. However, if you buy it as an introduction to physics in games (which how it's intended to be used), I think you'll be happy with it.	2002-04-05
US	50269104	RW9MMYHDMSUC9	1931841063	423073301	Special Effects Game Programming with DirectX w/CD (The Premier Press Game Development Series)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Mason hits one out of the park	I've been looking forward to this book for a long time now. I've attended several industry conferences with the author, and he's written numerous articles for our website, so I know him to be both an excellent game programmer and talented writer. I had high expectations for this book, and I'm happy to report that it not only lives up to them, it exceeds them.<br />This book does two things very well: it provides first-rate coverage of DirectX, and it provides the most extensive coverage of special effects ever put in to a game programming book. I'm going to review each of these aspects of the book separately.<br />The first half of this book is dedicated to covering the basics of Windows programming, 3D math, and DirectX, and it makes the assumption that you're new to all of these areas. He covers all components of the DirectX API, including DirectAudio, DirectInput, DirectPlay, DirectShow, and of course, DirectGraphics (aka Direct3D), which is where the book really shines. Before this book, I had not encountered a single Direct3D book which I could recommend without reservation. He dedicates 5 hefty chapters to DirectGraphics, including two on texture mapping and one on pixel and vertex shaders (and that doesn't count the second half of the book which provides plenty of examples and advanced techniques). Simply put, this is without question the best book currently on the market from which to learn DirectX, and for that reason alone, it's earned a place at the top of my recommendations list.<br />Note that even if you aren't new to DirectX, you'll probably find a lot of useful things in the first half of the book which are generally omitted from or glossed over in (most) other books, such as action mapping, DirectShow, and DirectPlay. Even the 3D math section has something to offer, with the most concise and accessible explanation of quaternions that I've come across.<br />The special effects section of the book is divided into two parts. The first covers 2D effects, including fire, water, image feedback, image warping, clouds, blurs, and transitions. Before you complain about 2D being a thing of the past, note that these effects are intended for use in title screens, or for generating textures to be used in 3D worlds. The second part is, of course, 3D effects, and includes particle systems, explosions, 3D water, guns and projectiles, lens flares, and vertex and pixel shader effects. All of these are presented quite well, but the particle system coverage deserves special mention. It spans almost 100, and takes you all the way from a basic system to a powerful, flexible system controlled through scripts.<br />Each special effect is accompanied by at least one demo program, which is thoroughly explained in the book. The only downside to this is that the author was only able to focus on a single algorithm for each effect, but he at least mentions some of the alternative approaches, as well as suggestions for improving the techniques he presents. Overall, any game programmer should be able to benefit from the special effects portion of the book, even if you've done some of these things before.<br />My only real complaint about this book is that it should have been two books. Experienced game programmers will probably find a lot they can use in the special effects portion of the book, but may find the DirectX portion unnecessary. Beginning programmers will definitely benefit from the DirectX portion, but may want to spend some time working on basic game techniques before diving into the special effects portion. But, it's not two books, and as a single volume, it's still worth the price. Also, you should be aware that some of the effects covered in this book require a newer video card to even be able to run the demo program. To get the most out of the book, you'll need a card that at least supports vertex shaders, and preferably pixel shaders as well. Also, if you're not pretty comfortable with C++, you may find yourself strugglingwith some of the code.<br />Overall, this book is extremely well-written and easy to read. There's so much that this book has to offer that is difficult, if not impossible, to find elsewhere, I strongly recommend it as a must-have for anyone interested in game programming.th some of the code.<br />Overall, this book is extremely well-written and easy to read. There's so much that this book has to offer that is difficult, if not impossible, to find elsewhere, I strongly recommend it as a must-have for anyone interested in game programming.	2002-01-28
US	50269104	RA65O0VYI7MUP	1584500549	633037465	Game Programming Gems 2 (GAME PROGRAMMING GEMS SERIES) (Vol 2)	Books	5	47	53	N	N	definitely worth the money	Like the first volume, Game Programming Gems 2 features an exceptional collection of articles written by a knowledgeable group of authors, most of whom are well-known and respected in the area they write about. This series (the third volume is already underway, as are related books focusing on AI and design) isn't intended to be a complete guide to all aspects of game development, but rather, a resource you turn to when you need help with a specific problem. As such, the series truly shines, and this volume is a worthy follow up to the first.<br /><br />The articles, or gems, included in the book cover intermediate to advanced topics in the areas of general programming, mathematics, artificial intelligence, geometry management, graphics display, and audio programming, each edited by an expert in the field. Most of the gems assume that you have a fundamental knowledge of the issues related to the topic, and get to the point quickly. As a result, on average the gems are shorter than the previous volume. Both of these things could be viewed as either positives or negatives, depending on your experience level. Regardless, almost all of the gems are well written and relevant.<br /><br />Most game programming books these days come with CDs packed full of demos, source code, and other information supplementing the book. Unfortunately, the CD that comes with this book isn't one of those. It does have source code from most of the chapters, but there are very few demos and no extras (unless you count GLUT and the DX8 SDK, which I don't since you can easily get those elsewhere). However, I'd count the CD as only a minor disappointment, since the book itself is so good.<br /><br />If you're serious about game development, I'd highly recommend adding Gems 2 to your library. You'll definitely find things in it that you can use.	2001-11-21
US	50269104	R1IHWPS33RMPSG	0761531912	733592876	Beginning Direct3D Game Programming w/CD (Prima Tech's Game Development)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Good information	I have mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, I've been waiting for a long time for a decent Direct3D book to refer beginners to, and this is one of the best so far. On the other hand, being the &quot;best&quot; among Direct3D books really isn't saying much, and this book is far from perfect.<br /><br />Overall, this book covers a lot of good material, including some of the more advanced aspects of DX8, and the code itself is pretty solid. Unfortunately, the explanations can be a little hard to understand, partially due to the fact that the author isn't a native English speaker (the chapters on physics and collision detection don't suffer this problem, though, being written by someone else), so you may find yourself having to reread things several times.<br /><br />I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone who doesn't have some game programming and DirectX knowledge, but I would recommend it for someone who wants to get up to speed on the latest version of D3D, especially if they have used a previous version of Direct3D - or even another 3D API - or if they are willing to put the effort into working through the chapters to dig out the (truly useful) information they contain.	2001-11-20
US	50269104	R1VCY99G6D9U79	1556227558	158155245	Designing Arcade Computer Game Graphics (Wordware Game Developer's Library)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Not sure who will benefit from this	Honestly, I was surprised to see that most of the reviews posted for this book have been positive. Although the book does contain some useful information, the vast majority of it seems to be little more than filler. John Hattan's review really sums it up much better than I can, so suffice it to say that if you're looking at this as a possible guide to help you create game art, you're likely to be disappointed, unless you're interested in the (very general) theory behind it. For every book I review, I try to be as fair as possible and at the very least state what kinds of people would enjoy the book, but I'm unable to do so in this case. Since (based on the reviews) there are at least a few people out there who might enjoy this, the best I can suggest is to read the TOC, or even better, browse the book at your local bookstore, before deciding whether or not to buy this book.	2001-11-20
US	50269104	R1J28NB19N9EG2	0761530894	651834872	Isometric Game Programming with DirectX 7.0 w/CD (Premier Press Game Development (Software))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great entry point to game development	This is one of the most well written, easy to understand game programming books I have come across. The author obviously knows the subject matter quite well, and knows how to present it in a clear and consise manner.<br /><br />If you're a competent C/C++ programmer, but just getting started in game programming, this is a great place to begin. Although the focus of the book - isometric games - is a bit narrower than books like Tricks of the Windows Game Programming gurus, I think you'll be more satisfied with the look of the isometric games you create. In addition, the basics of DirectX and Windows programming are covered in a very understandable manner.<br /><br />If you're already a game programmer, and just want to pick up some iso techniques, feel free to skip the first part - there's nothing new there. Although the book's title includes &quot;DirectX&quot;, the isometric algorithms are not API dependent, and can be easily adapted to other APIs (I was able to convert them to OpenGL in a matter of hours).<br /><br />My only complaint about the book is that the author obviously lost steam near the end, with the number of demo programs and code samples dropping to a trickle. This also means that there is not a complete game included with the book. However, there is enough good material otherwise that I'm not going to count that against it.	2001-08-22
US	50269104	R1YZ101RCRCSU3	1556227353	604595710	Computer Game Design: Theory and Practice	Books	4	15	17	N	N	good resource for game designers	Each of the chapters of this book fall into one of three categories: an interview with a prominent game designer, an analysis of a successful game, or a discussion of game design principles. Each is valuable for different reasons, so I'd like to review each of them separately.<br />The interviews are interesting, and go into much greater depth than most interviews you see. As a result, you're able to get a good idea of how each designer approaches the game design process, which can be useful in analyzing your own methods.<br />The chapters analyzing games focused on a single game, but also looked at similar games in the genre. If you're an aspiring game designers, you'll benefit from these chapters. Partially because you will see what these games did well, but moreso because they will encourage you to analyze the design aspects of the games you're playing to see what they do right, what they do wrong, and how you can apply that to your own designs.<br />About half of the chapters of the book cover various aspects of game design, presenting the author's own theories about what's important, what isn't, and the things you should be thinking about. It's hard to review the value of this; some of it you'll agree with, and some of it you may not. Depending on your degree of experience, some of it may be obvious, some of it may be new, and some of it may help you focus on areas you've been neglecting.<br />Overall, I wouldn't consider this book a must-have, but if you're interested in becoming a well-rounded and successful game designer, there's a lot in here that will be of value to you.	2001-05-31
US	50269104	R162H6XTSIU581	1584500492	633037465	Game Programming Gems (GAME PROGRAMMING GEMS SERIES)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Definite must-have	There are many game programming books out there written for beginning to intermediate programmers, but unfortunately, advanced information is harder to come by, being scattered across web sites, magazines, technical journals, and in small sections of non-game-specific books. Game Programming Gems finally provides a single place where you can find explanations of advanced techniques that are actually being used in modern games.<br />This book covers a broad range of topics and is written by many authors, so naturally, there will be some sections that are more useful to you than others. Overall, though, I think you'd be hard pressed to find a game programmer who wouldn't benefit in some way from this book.<br />My only minor complaint is that although the vast majority of the chapters include sample code, not many include a complete demo. Although you can easily create your own project to dump the sample code into, it would have been nice to be able to immediate launch a demo as I read each section.<br />That one shortcoming isn't enough to stop me from giving this a 5 star rating. I highly recommend it to any intermediate to advanced game programmer who wants to take it to the next level.	2001-05-22
US	50269104	R1Z4HI7U1YREFP	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Better, at least	Like almost everyone else, I've been frustrated that the pace of the last few books has slowed to a crawl. Although, as another reviewer has noted, I'm not ready for the series to end yet, but I don't see the point of having the last two books contain hundreds of pages of filler leading up to the last few chapters, where the only real action happens.<br />Winter's Heart is at least better than the last two books. I don't want to post any spoilers, but in this book, we have some long running plotlines finally being resolved. The ending, in particular, was quite satisfying - perhaps moreso than any other book in the series.<br />Overall, although the book could have been much better, I enjoyed reading it. Hopefully it marks a turning point in the series, and that the next book will return to the quality of the earlier books.	2001-01-29
US	50269104	R1F26P1GRCCDOL	1556227213	713330307	Advanced 3-D Game Programming With Directx 7.0 (Wordware Game Developer's Library)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Know what you're getting	It seems that the reviews for this book have been somewhat controversial, with people generally either loving or hating it. In light of that, I tried to read it with as open a mind as possible, and hopefully this review is objective.<br />The title of any book tends to create an expectation of what the book covers, so you would expect the focus of this book to be on advanced game programming techniques first, and on DirectX second. Okay, so how does it do in each area then?<br />To start on a positive note, when it comes to DirectX coverage, the book does a pretty good job. Having read several books covering DirectX, only a couple of which included Direct3D, this book holds up pretty well to the competition. It's not perfect; the non-Direct3D components are only covered briefly, but probably enough to get you up and running. The Direct3D coverage is decent, though, and easier to understand than what I've seen elsewhere. The texture mapping chapter was probably the most relevant of the entire book (though a little more depth on multitexturing applications and an explanation of how to generate the images used in environment mapping would have helped). The hole in the DirectX coverage comes in the omission of DirectPlay. Granted, there is a big chapter covering UDP instead, which is more widely used than DirectPlay anyway, but there should at least have been an explanation of why DirectPlay isn't used.<br />The coverage of advanced techniques is somewhat limited, primarily because a great deal of the book assumes you are a beginner. Given that the word &quot;Advanced&quot; appears in the title, a lot of beginners are going to be hesitant to pick this up. And yet, the first several chapters introduce Windows programming, DirectX, and 3D math, which anyone considering themselves ready for an advanced book should already understand. Normally, I wouldn't consider these beginner sections a bad thing, since they are fairly well written (although the 3D math section isn't as well presented as it could have been) and to the point; however, as you'll see in a moment, the space could have been better used.<br />When the book finally gets to more advanced topics, the coverage provided is somewhat spotty. Even though, as you can see from the TOC, many advanced topics are mentioned, only a handful of them provide enough depth of coverage or sample applications. Generally, the author's excuse for not providing complete coverage of a topic is a lack of space; if that's the case, and if this book really was intended to cover advanced game programming, he should have dropped the beginners sections and instead focused on advanced techniques that are being used in games.<br />One other thing I just couldn't understand about the book was the ordering. Several chapters are inserted between the DirectX introduction and the Direct3D chapter (and it's not like all the chapters in between are required to understand Direct3D, since they include the AI, networking, and physics chapters). Since you can read the chapters out of order, this is just a minor annoyance, but it doesn't make much sense.<br />So, in summary, the title of this book is misleading. People buying it for coverage of advanced topics are going to be disappointed, although there are a few nuggets to be had. On the other hand, it provides a great deal of information for beginners, including fairly complete coverage of DirectX, and better coverage of Direct3D than you'll find in many other books. Although it's not for absolute beginners, if you have some game programming experience and are ready to get into 3D, this may be worth picking up.isn't as well presented as it could have been) and to the point; however, as you'll see in a moment, the space could have been better used. <br />When the book finally gets to more advanced topics, the coverage provided is somewhat spotty. Even though, as you can see from the TOC, many advanced topics are mentioned, only a handful of them provide enough depth of coverage or sample applications. Generally, the author's excuse for not providing complete coverage of a topic is a lack of space; if that's the case, and if this book really was intended to cover advanced game programming, he should have dropped the beginners sections and instead focused on advanced techniques that are being used in games. <br />One other thing I just couldn't understand about the book was the ordering. Several chapters are inserted between the DirectX introduction and the Direct3D chapter (and it's not like all the chapters in between are required to understand Direct3D, since they include the AI, networking, and physics chapters). Since you can read the chapters out of order, this is just a minor annoyance, but it doesn't make much sense. <br />So, in summary, the title of this book is misleading. People buying it for coverage of advanced topics are going to be disappointed, although there are a few nuggets to be had. On the other hand, it provides a great deal of information for beginners, including fairly complete coverage of DirectX, and better coverage of Direct3D than you'll find in many other books. Although it's not for absolute beginners, if you have some game programming experience and are ready to get into 3D, this may be worth picking up.	2001-01-22
US	50269104	R3CE36P6X8J4WY	1571691642	327194928	OpenGL SuperBible, Second Edition (2nd Edition)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A worthy intro to OpenGL	It's hard not to write a review of an OpenGL book without comparing it to the Red Book, so I'll go ahead and do just that. Overall, I think the Superbible is every bit as useful as the Red Book, but in different ways. Although the Red Book has more detailed coverage, the Superbible focuses more on the practical side, covering the things you'll use and how you'll use them. Where the Red Book remains entirely platform-independent, the Superbible has quite a bit of Windows specific information, which is good since that's what a lot of us use. Finally, while the Red Book provides fairly generic OpenGL coverage, the Superbible is geared more toward real-time applications and games, which makes it a bit more appealing to folks like me.<br />One really nice thing about this book is that it assumes no previous graphics programming experience (unlike the Red Book). It's also written in a more conversational tone. Those two factors combined probably make it a better book for beginners. If your objective is to make games, and you want to use OpenGL for them, then, at the time of writing, this is really the only book available on OpenGL containing any significant amount of game-specific material (though I *cough* have it on good authority that an OpenGL game programming book is on the horizon...)<br />To sum up, I think that the Superbible's OpenGL coverage is quite good, it's extremely well written, and the code examples are both illustrative and useful. If you choose it as your means of learning OpenGL, you won't be disappointed.	2001-01-07
US	50269104	R2S41565LVPU34	1558605142	407701509	Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, Second Edition (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Networking)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A must for anyone starting with networks	There's little question that networks are more important now than they ever have been. This book is perfect for anyone who wants a broad understanding of computer networks, both of their history and evolution, and important issues today. If you're looking for a text covering network programming, look elsewhere, since most of the code samples are only there for illustrative purposes, and are thus brief or incomplete. Instead, what you'll find here is extensive coverage of issues involved with network design, such as network protocols, security issues, congestion control, routing algorithms, link-level technologies, and more. Although the reading can be slow at times, given the somewhat theoretical nature of the subject, overall the authors have done a great job of keeping the discussion interesting and relevant. Of special note were the end-of-chapter discussions of unresolved issues facing today's network architects and designers.<br />All in all, if you want to gain an understanding of computer networks, this book will provide a great foundation to build upon.	2001-01-07
US	50269104	RGYK9MPVQQ37E	1568811012	181793103	Real-Time Rendering	Books	5	35	39	N	N	A must-have for graphics/game programmers	Real-Time Rendering is a wonderful all-around resource that belongs on the desk of any serious graphics programmer. Moller and Haines have taken a great deal of the research done in this area over the past decade and compiled it into a single, very well-written work. For each topic covered, several algorithms are discussed, with the strengths and weaknesses of each. Although pseudo-code is occasionally provided, source code is not, which I consider a plus, as it causes the focus of the book to remain on the algorithms themselves, not the implementation thereof.<br />Given the nature of the book, it's not one I'd recommend to beginners; although the first several chapters include a very clear and API-independent introduction to 3D graphics, the rest of the book is well beyond the scope of what most beginners will find useful. However, for anyone serious about the creation of high-performance graphics engines, this book is an indispensable resource.	2000-11-13
US	50269104	R3CFKOC3IIMBC	0078823064	482863406	Windows 98 Programming from the Ground Up	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great for Windows beginners	This book is a great way to learn Windows programming with Win32.  Although the book is written for Windows 98, it clearly highlights  differences with Windows 95, and even Windows 3.x. Schlidt's expert  knowledge is evident, his writing style is pleasant and easy to read, and  he includes extensive sample code to illustrate each feature he discusses.  I highly recommend it.	2000-08-10
US	50269104	R3SLM9TKUYZQDX	1576104001	971906624	3D Game Programming with C++: Learn the Insider Secrets of Today's Professional Game Developers	Books	2	7	8	N	N	A disappointment	I'm frequently asked for book recommendations for learning Direct3D.  For a long time, my answer was &quot;There are no good, up-to-date books  covering Direct3D&quot;.  When I heard about this book, I had high  expectations.  de Goes' previous book had been well-received, and I had  enjoyed many of his online articles.  I was hoping I'd finally have a book  I could recommend.<br />Unfortunately, the book falls far short of my  expectations, both in its Direct3D coverage, and in game programming  coverage in general.<br />First of all, more than half of the book consists  of the appendices, which are nothing more than a DirectX reference.  It's  nice to have a printed reference, but since the same information is readily  available as part of the DirectX SDK, it seems like a waste of space.<br />The remaining 300 or so pages aren't much better.  A good 100 or so are  a code dump of his DX wrapper classes, which could have just stayed on the  CD. The remaining chapters include a good chapter covering 3D basics, the  apparently obligatory chapter on the history of 3D games, and then some  moderately useful coverage of DirectDraw, DirectSound, DirectInput,  Direct3D, Artificial Intelligence and Physics.  I say moderately useful  because in regards to the DirectX coverage, he explains the most useful  functions, and his explanations are accurate and detailed, but doesn't ever  really show you how to use them. Some demo applications would have been  very useful. The chapters on AI and physics are interesting, but again,  some demos illustrating the principles covered would have been quite  useful.<br />I'd expect that most people would buy this book expecting that  when they are done, they'd be able to create a basic 3D game. I honestly  don't think that's a likely scenario. I read this already knowing OpenGL  and the rest of DirectX quite well, but after finishing this book, I feel  like I still don't know Direct3D at all.	2000-08-10
US	50269104	R1S43MNPEZSIKL	0672313618	19490560	Tricks of the Windows Game Programming Gurus	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great way to start learning game programming	At the time of writing, this book is the best introduction to game programming in DirectX available. LaMothe covers much of the same material  covered in Windows Game Programming for Dummies, but does so in much  greater detail. He also covers game physics and AI. There are a few  problems with the code, it's direct and easy to understand, which is the  whole point of the book. I'd highly recommend this book to any  beginning-intermediate game programmers. Advanced programmers, or readers  of WGPFD, may want to wait for Volume II.	2000-08-10
US	50269104	R3MNJ0CZ37LZ2B	0201604582	749245449	OpenGL(R) Programming Guide: The Official Guide to Learning OpenGL, Version 1.2 (3rd Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Definitely a must have	What can I say?  This book lives up to its reputation of being THE book  for learning OpenGL.  It's extremely well written, contains easy to use and  understand sample programs, is quite complete in its coverage, and it is  entirely platform-independent.  Anyone who wants to learn OpenGL should  have this book.	2000-08-10
US	50269104	R1EXSP3U5PGXEU	1556154844	915418648	Code Complete (Microsoft Programming)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	If you don't have it, get it!	Out of the dozens of programming books I've read, this may well be the  most useful. It covers basic software engineering practices that every  serious programmer should adopt. Unless you're coding in a cave and never  look at old code, you owe it to yourself and coworkers to read and apply  the principles in this book.	2000-08-10
US	50269104	R1DD5KO98TBN62	1572316969	186278409	Inside DirectX (Microsoft Programming Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Useful, though dated, DirectX reference	Although it reads somewhat like a reference manual, and is now becoming  somewhat dated (as it was written for DX5) this is a good and reliable  source of information about DirectX. The writing style is clear and  professional, and the code samples are useful and easy to understand. It's  not game-centric, which is unfortunate because that will what most readers  are interested in, but it's useful for game developers nonetheless.	2000-08-03
US	50269104	R1SCSCR2AYMKB1	1571690042	827363065	Black Art of 3D Game Programming: Writing Your Own High-Speed 3D Polygon Video Games in C	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A still-valid intro to 3D graphics	If you are just getting involved in game programming, this book is a good  place to start. The first half of the book covers general game techniques  in 2D, and then the last half covers many concepts of 3D games. The book is  written for DOS, but most of the principles apply to any platform. The 3D  engine Andr&eacute; develops is quite primitive by today's standards, but it at  least introduces you to the terminology and ideas used in 3D games. The  lower rating is because the book IS old by game development standards, so  you going to have to do quite a bit of work if you want to use any of the  code, but if you are new to 3D graphics, this book covers them in a clear  and easy to understand manner.	2000-08-03
US	50269104	R1SK5SL3LGZ0W2	0764503375	133998142	Windows Game Programming For Dummies?	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great for beginners, but...	This book is great for those new to Windows game programming and DirectX.  Andr&eacute; covers all elements of DirectX 5.0, with the exception of Direct3D.  His writing style is easy and enjoyable to read, with a lot of sample code,  which, although not perfect, is good for educational purposes. The  disadvantage to this book is it is becoming rather dated, so you're  probably better off with LaMothe's Tricks of the Windows Game Programming  Gurus, which is more recent, about twice as big, and covers everything this  book does.	2000-08-03
US	50269104	R2K1NRLRIA2X0G	0078824761	637539994	C++: The Complete Reference	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great addition for your library	After picking this up, it quickly became the most used book in my library.  This book contains a wealth of C++ information. It's coverage of new ANSI  standard C++ features is easy to understand and quite useful, and gives  this book a definite edge over older books.  As other reviews have pointed  out, it's not perfect, but if you want to gain a more in-depth knowledge of  C++, this book is an excellent choice.	2000-08-03
US	50269104	R1PX3OTGR8EU9O	1566869048	769207270	Game Design: Secrets of the Sages Guide (Brady Games)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Great for the price	Imagine interviewing over one hundred people in the game in the game  industry, and then taking all those interviews, editing them, and compiling  them into a single, coherent volume that flows well. Seems like a daunting  task, doesn't it? Well, that's exactly what Marc Saltzman has done here.<br />Although the book doesn't flow perfectly, Saltzman has done an excellent  job of organizing and tying together the advice and insights of some of the  top developers in the industry, and it makes for quite an interesting read.  The book covers each major area of game development, from programming and  design to art and animation to production and marketing. Although the book  is certainly not the only book you need to learn to make games (it contains  no actual programming information, for example), it's a good general  resource that will help you avoid many of the pitfalls others have  encountered, and learn from their experience in general.<br />One complaint I  had is that the quality of the advice ranges all over the place, from truly  insightful, to stating the obvious, to blatantly wrong. Most of it is good,  though, and it's helpful to view each developer's views in light of how  well received their games were. My only ohter complaint is that in some  sections, most of the developers interviewed seemed to be saying the exact  same things, and although that helped to reinforce the point being made, it  caused the book to drag a bit.<br />All-in-all, I don't consider this book a  &quot;must have,&quot; but I do think it's a good value for the price.	2000-08-03
