US	50277793	RALVKBT2YHZCI	0380731630	381529543	Skeleton Dance (Gideon Oliver Mysteries)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nice Steady Elkins	I have read &quot;Loot&quot; by Aaron Elkins and found that art can be a great center for a mystery novel. I was a little skeptical that Elkins series revolving around an archaeology would be as good. I am glad I gave it a shot. Gideon Oliver the main character in this series is a wonderful character that any mystery fan can get into. <br />The story starts when a local dog starts bring home human bones from a cave in France. However these bones are no remains of any old Cro-magnon. These are much to new. Oliver is brought in to determine the age of the bones, and slowly uncovers a scandal in the local institute of archaeology. At the institute is a group of possible suspects of the unknown victim in the cave. Oliver along with detective Joly must put all the pieces together to solve this tricky murder.<br />This novel remains me of Agatha Christie, with it's uniquue locatons and list of suspects. Elkins has a great ability to weace a great story along with not the most enthralling topics. However he makes it work and should be on everyones too read list.	2001-09-21
US	50277793	R31R73OHXPHLA3	0060185775	471094057	Orange Crush: A Novel (Serge Storms)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Dorsey Getting Better and Better	I rarely find a new author that rockets to the top my must read list, at the speed Tim Dorsey has. Dorsey another master of the Florida Crazy fiction was knocked at first for trying to hard to be like Carl Hiaasen. However now that he is in his third book he coming into his own and has a style all to his own. Dorsey crams alot a characters and little quick storylines and sometimes it can get a little confusing to the reader, but by the end Dorsey brings everything together usually with some very funny results.<br />&quot;Orange Crush&quot; revovles around the govenor's race for the great state of Florida. The incumbent Marlon Conrad is a a shoe in. Then Marlon has a political awakening and starts to be politician for the people instead of the politcian for big money. He buys a orange mobile home and starts visiting the lesser known parts of Florida looking for what the real people of Florida want. Along for the ride are his press secratary who is afraid of minorities and a speechwriter with amnesia. Gomer Tatum his opponent is being led by want-to-be first lady Jackie Monroeville. It the middle of this there is a killer loose. The story ends on election day and the result are pure classic Dorsey.<br />Tim Dorsey has now put himself on my top five author list. He is a must read for any fan of this genre. Readers who have read Dorsey may wonder at first where Serge is?? Don't worry he is there and is up to his usual tricks. For the first time reader you can start with &quot;Orange Crush&quot; but I suggest reading &quot;Florida Roadkill&quot; and &quot;Hammerhead Ranch Motel&quot; in order first. One word of warning Chapter 39 is so funny you might split a gut.	2001-09-09
US	50277793	RZ8GJW26NBHB2	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	5	4	5	N	N	You Will Read it in Less	This being my first Greg Iles book, I was very impressed. Iles has a great style and great character definition that will make me want to read his past novels. With &quot;24 Hours&quot; Iles gives a very frightening story that is so real, that you get shivers from the start all the way to the end. The story is about Jennings' family, whose life is ripped apart by a group of kidnappers. The kidnappers pull this job off once a year by kidnapping the child of a upper class doctor, while the doctor is away at an convention. Every year they pull it off with the leader staying with the wife, the leader's wife with the husband and the leader's mentally handicapped nephew watching the child, all in different locations. Calls must be made every 30 minutes or the child will die. However this time the kidnappers picked the wrong family. The Jennings' are going to fight back. This is one of the best thrillers I've read in a very long time. Any reader of fiction will find this a stay up late read. Can't wait for the movie next year.	2001-08-24
US	50277793	R966XVRZQ8DNV	0440235413	211150583	Coffin's Got the Dead Guy on the Inside	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fun Characters, Solid Story	...The concept seemed amusing and the idea of musician who solves mysteries was something different then your average mystery novel. The story flows well and Keith Snyder snappy dialogue set a great pace for the novel.<br />The story is centered on Jason Kelptner a musician who on the side does some investigating for extra cash. Jason accepts a job to watch an old friend, Paul who is up to no good. Jason invites Paul to move in with him so he can keep closer tabs on him. Soon Jason and his other rommies Martin and Robert (a writer and actor) become intangles in a tecno-scam in which Paul is playing both sides of the fence. Soon bad guys with guns are showing up on Jason's doorstep demanding a computer gizmo called a \\"dongle\\". Jason and pals must find the \\"dongle\\" and figure out what it does to figure out the scam and the rest of the mystery.<br />The book does jump around a little and has a few too many characters. At the end you may end up wonderering who is on what side, but in total this is a very solid funny mystery. The banter between Jason, Robert and Martin is a true treat and very funny. One minor poor note is the number of spelling errors that appear in the book. Snyder should have a better editor for his caliber.	2001-08-14
US	50277793	R3AR070VDLISR4	0786865644	916635301	Parallel Lies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Rollercoaster Ride From Pearson	I have read almost all of Ridley Pearson's novels and enjoy most of them. I am partial to his stand alone novels and find &quot;Hard Fall&quot; and &quot;Blood on the Albatross&quot; my favorites. When I found out that Pearson was doing another non-Boldt novel I had to pick this up as soon as it came out. What I got was another face paced rollercoster ride. Again Pearson gives another new good guy to root for and a bevy of not so nice guys to boo. The novel revolves around a series of train derailments, caused by terrorist Umberto Alverez. All the derailments involve the same the railroad company, that Alverez is trying to get revenge against. Enter Peter Tyler who is trying to get a second chance on life by getting a job at the NTSB, after losing his job as a Washington detective in a police abuse charge. Slowly Tyler puts the pieces together and finds out what Alvarez's true motive is and the massive cover-up by the railroad company. The story ends up on the F.A.S.T train and new bullet like train traveling from New York to Washington at 180 mph speeds. Pearson's style is quick and packs a punch. The last 60 pages aboard the F.A.S.T. bullet train make for great ending and will fly by. The side strories of a love interest for Tyler and Alvarez both fit in nicely to the story. This is a must read for and Pearson fan old or new. It is not as good as say &quot;Hard Fall&quot; but has the same feel in a lot of ways.	2001-08-06
US	50277793	R2MVVVCAV3YMYN	0345434471	487267340	L. A. Requiem (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	We Finally Get To Know Pike	If you read a lot of Elvis Cole novels you realize that they are heavily centered on Cole. Finally Robert Crais has given us a novel that takes a peek into the life of Cole's partner Joe Pike. We know from previous novels that he was a former police officer and military man. However Crais never bothered in telling his story, making him out to be a mystery man. It was cool for a while but after nine novels it was time too expand the Joe Pike character.<br />The start of this novel is different from most. It does not take place in Cole's office, but on the streets of Los Angeles when Pike was a cop trailing a known child molester with his partner. Then it jumps to the present with a missing persons case involving one of Pike's ex-loves. The father hires Pike and Cole to keep an eye on the police investigation, headed by a officer who hates Pike. The search leads to death, corruption, redemption and new loves and lost loves .... <br />This is by far one of the better Cole novels. Even thought you can't go wrong with any of them. The look into Pikes past was great and well done by Crais. I wonder if when Crais started this series that he planned on leaving Pike's past hidden until much later. Either way it was a wonderful read. If you are new to the Cole series I do suggest not jumping in with \\"LA Requiem\\", but go back and read a few of the older novels and come back to this one.	2001-07-23
US	50277793	R129CBBDU0WEO3	0345432193	204619529	The Naked Detective	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Shames Stumbles	I have read a few of Laurence Shames' novels and have very much enjoyed his style. Shames keeps the plot simple and the characters vivid in most of his novels. &quot;The Naked Detective&quot; starts out with a great premise then dissolves into a sub-par effort for Shames.<br />The novel starts with Pete Amsterdam who is a private eye, only to avoid a large tax bite. He lives in Key West avoiding the IRS and possible clients. Then walks in Kenny Lukens a cross dressing bartender/boater, with a huge secret. Kenny fears that his life may be in danger after robbing his employer. Two bank bags our buried on Sunset Key by Kenny and he wants Amsterdam to find them. Cash is in the first and whatever is in the second is what is causing Kenny's angst. Amsterdam says no to the case and rejoines his relaxed life. Then Kenny Lukens ends up dead. Amsterdam then throws himself into his first case invovlving mafia, blackmail and crooked cops. Amsterdam also meets Maggie a yoga instructor friend of Lukens and a little spark of passion ensues.<br />The story is solid throught the first half of the book and then falls apart in the second half. Shames great character development takes a back seat in this one. It is very hard to like any of the characters including Amsterdam. The ending is very cloudy and comes out of left field. Not sure if Shames tried for the shocker ending, but what he did accomplish was only confusion. A reader may not catch the motive here.	2001-07-16
US	50277793	R4T5WEKTTL9CS	0061020397	545755908	Carpe Jugulum (Discworld)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Strange, Odd and Funny All At the Same Time	Not being a huge fan of fantasy I find it hard to write a review for the occasional Terry Pratchett novel I do read. I enjoy is offbeat look at the real world in translation to his books and enjoy the corny humor that is sprinkled in. However I find myself giving every Pratchett three stars because they all seem to be lacking something. The hard thing is that the something is something I cannot put my finger on.<br />&quot;Carpe Juglum&quot; or &quot;Seize the Throat&quot; takes place in the land of Lancre. There is great cause for celebration in Lancre since the Queen has given birth to the first child of the royals. In a massive celebration by inviting many guests. The guest include vampires from Uberwald, and everybody knows not too invite a vampire into your castle. Quickly the vampires take over the land of Lancre, and it is up to the witches of Lancre and the weak in faith priest Mightly Oats to save the dayand drive the vampires back or become a servant to there leader.<br />In total the book is fun and cute in it's own way. Igor the vampire's servant gives the book many laughs. To get in touch with witches a reader might want to try out other Discworld novels with these characters in it. They beginning is a little cloudy and some earlier information will be helpful to any new Pratchett reader	2001-06-25
US	50277793	R3KWJHZCUHBFDR	0312975740	206728006	Projection	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Ablow a New Voice In Nightmarish Fiction	As most sequels go, I was not expecting much from Keith Ablow's  &quot;Projection&quot;. The first novel &quot;Denial&quot; was poorly written and I found very little of any value. &quot;Projection&quot; however is much better in every way shape and form. Ablow has a sharp nightmarish voice in this novel. He is slowly becoming like Thomas Harris with his ability to keep people up late into the night reading to find out what will happen next.<br />&quot;Projection&quot; picks up right where &quot;Denial&quot; left off. <br />This novel is much more well rounded and the last half of the novel will fly by. Clevender is still a main character that is very hard to like, due to his past and present demons tormenting him. Some of the chapters contain graphic acts of violence not suitable for every reader. Ablow has shown that he has grown a little as an author and should find some great new success in future novels.	2001-05-22
US	50277793	R2NY57ETCQXEOI	0553565095	399507971	Free Fall (Elvis Cole)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Elvis Cole Solid As Always	There is one aspect you can rely on in a Robert Crais novel. That is it is going to be a quick read, with a lot of action and solid story line that stay consistent throughout the book. Main character Elvis Cole is one of the more likable characters in any series today and most readers today will find him very likable. Crais almost detective noir style also passes into present day without getting watered down or too quirky<br />The story starts as usual with Cole sitting in his office waiting for the next case. In walks Jennifer Sheridan who is the fiancée of Mark Thurman, a special force Los Angeles Policemen. Sheridan believes that her fiancée is involved in something illegal regarding the LAPD and wants Cole to find out what it is. Cole takes the case and discovers that Thurman may be cheating on his future wife. A little more digging and Cole finds that it runs a lot deeper, too a wrongful death lawsuit and the strange practices by Thurman and the rest of his team. Cole finds that the task force is working with a South Central gang and the case gets more dangerous and complicated with each new clue.<br />Crais shows what made him such a successful televison writer. He makes everything concise and to the point. The chapters in South Central give you the true feeling of what it maybe like to live there. The ending is a bit overdone and a little unbelievable, but this is still one of Crais' best work and recommended to all Elvis Cole fans and any reader of suspense/mystery.	2001-05-15
US	50277793	R108CJO7HN7L9J	0380789175	154562288	The Crook Factory	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Great Mix of World War II Espionage and a Man Called Papa	When I found Dan Simmons' &quot;The Crook Factory&quot; a few months ago, I thought that the concept sounded intriguing but flawed. I never once believed that Simmons could pull off a solid historical fiction novel involving espionage and Ernest Hemingway. Not being a big reader of Hemingway I thought that getting through this 562-page novel was going to take a monumental effort. I was pleased with the style and easy Simmons used to put these two together. Simmons also shows great versatility in mixing the spy writing with delicate illustrations of the writer in 1940s Havana. I found the pages flying by as the Simmons laid out one of the most concise story I've read in sometime.<br />The novel starts with FBI agent Joe Lucas getting a new assignment from J. Edgar Hoover. The assignment is to go to Cuba and watch Ernest Hemingway and his thrown together group of counter-espionage &quot;The Crook Factory&quot;.  Lucas joins the group as an intelligence liaison for Hemingway and finds &quot;The Crook Factory&quot; is nothing but a bunch of local friends and athletes that Hemingway knows. Hemingway believes that there are German U-boats in the Caribbean and wants to destroy one of them. After some searching the factory starts receiving transmissions that indeed there are U-boats and their use is to land German spies. &quot;The Crook Factory&quot; and the Germans play little war games until slowly Simmons let you see all the underhand deals and double agent trickery that is truly being played out. <br />I really enjoyed this little jaunt into World War II espionage and the little peek into the life of Hemingway. Simmons paints a picture of Hemingway that is truly believable and convincing. By no means does he glorify the writer or embellish on his not so nice parts, which is the flaw of most historical fiction writers. The novel is a bit lengthy and the chapters that cover FBI files and history of all the characters may not be for everyone, however I find this only a minor flaw. A true gem for those who enjoy novels set in World War II.	2001-05-10
US	50277793	R1I98WQ6MLG5QI	0375401245	739489945	Heart Breaker: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not Fooled Here	Robert Ferrigno's latest novel &quot;Heartbreaker&quot; is a true test. After starting out so strong with the &quot;The Horse Latitudes&quot; and slowly getting worse with the awful &quot;Dead Silent&quot; it was time to see if Ferrigno could recover. I found that Ferrigno got half way there. He does go back to his earlier style of great dialogue and solid character development. However the last 40 pages of this novel are so poorly done that it undermines the first 230 pages.<br />&quot;Heartbreaker&quot; is the story of Val Duran. Who after working undercover fighting the Florida drug runners, moves to California to take up a new career. Val knows that sooner or later the Florida Drug dealers will come looking for him, so he keeps a low profile and hopes for the best. Then enters Kyle Abbott a good looking free spirit. Val falls for Kyle and ends up encountering Kyle's well too do family, which includes a plotting step brother Kilo. Kilo has been duped into killing for the family money, by another mystery women named Jackie. Val tries to sort out the details of who is ripping who off when the drug dealers show up tuning Val's life upside down.<br />The major problem is with predictability of the book. You could tell early on what was going to happen. Ferrigno cops out and write exactly what is suspected. This is unlike Ferrigno's other novels where he kept the reader guessing at every page. &quot;Heartbreaker&quot; ends like a bad &quot;Murder She Wrote&quot; television show and in end costs the novel general rating.	2001-04-23
US	50277793	R2S77G0EIOIDUK	0380725231	573028455	Coyote Blue	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Another Trip in the Wacky Mind of Christopher Moore	I've enjoyed everything I've read by Christopher Moore, and though I liked &quot;Coyote Blue&quot; there are some serious gaps in the plot. As usual there is a lots of zaniness and a few laugh out loud parts. Also Moore again does a great job with his characterization. Moore can write characters that you will remember for a long time. In total the storyline is what knocks it down a few notches from Moore's other works.<br />&quot;Coyote Blue&quot; is return to your roots story about Sam Hunter. Sam a Crow Indian has to leave is reservation after accidentally killing a police officer. Sam moves to California where he becomes an insurance salesman. His new life has everything a nice car, a fancy house and lots of money. What Sam does not have is his heritage, something that he has been trying to hide. He meets Calliope Kincaid and wish for her. That is when Old Man Coyote a shape shifting Indian god shows up. He slowly starts to ruin Sam's new life. Sam tries to rid himself of Coyote, but when Calliope's old boyfriend kidnaps Calliope's son Grubb, Coyote and Sam must team together for a quest that leads them to Las Vegas and then Wyoming and Sam's reservation.<br />Three stars may seem a bit low, but this novel takes to many leaps of fate even for Moore. The novel storyline has just a few too many holes in it, also uncharacteristic too Moore. I do recommended this novel however and you do need to look past the novels flaws and enjoy another trip in Moore's mind. This is still good but not his best.	2001-04-17
US	50277793	R1VDKSZE6BB1PX	0425178870	728002756	Sins of Brother (Tom McInnes Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great First Novel	Every once in a while you can find a first novel author and realize that you have found an author that should last a long time. Mike Stewart's first novel &quot;Sins of the Brother&quot; reads a little like John Grisham with a quick witty dialogue that resembles Elmore Leonard. Stewart's strong narriative and quick stick to the point storyline makes for a great read.<br />&quot;Sins of the Brother&quot; is about Alabama lawyer Tom McInnis, whose little brother is murdered on a river in his hometown. McInnis goes to the funeral and is asked by his father to investigate his brother's business dealings that may have resulted in his death. McInnis slowly learns that his brother was not exactly a model citizen and reveals that his brother had ties to a southern mobster. Soon McInnis is making new enemies and encountering some old ones as his investigation draws him deeper.<br />This novel is a lot like Grisham with the southern feel and the elaborate plan McInnis uses to get out of trouble at the end. The side characters are a true joy, especially Joey a private investigtor who works for McInnis. The dialogue is quick and sometimes over the top. McInnis is just too cocky in some parts when faced with immense danger. Looking forward to the next in the McInnis series.	2001-04-04
US	50277793	R2GVB91AILS7AX	055358295X	876902997	Death of a Blue Movie Star (Rune)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Rune a Character That Grows On You	When I first started to go back and read Jeffery Deaver's older novels, I was not sure where the character Rune fit in. This character is so off from the rest of Deaver's characters that most reader have come to expect. However this wildly dressed, mostly unemployed young woman with the Peter Pan &quot;I will never grow up&quot; attitude toward life has a tendency to grow on you. The reader starts to like her more and more with every page turned.<br />&quot;Death of A Blue Movie Star&quot; finds Rune working for a production company that does good documentries and bad commercials. On her way to work Rune is a witness to the bombing of a adult movie theater. This gets Rune to thinking that a documentary on the bombings is a good idea. She borrows the equipment from work and befriends Shelly Lowe, and adult movie actress whose film was showing in the theater. Then a second bomb goes and takes the actress with it and Rune is thrown into a murder mystery that takes her through the wide range of suspects. She also befriends and falls in love with Sam Healy a NYPD bomb unit officer. Will Rune find the killer and get her movie made is the main theme of the novel.<br />Once again Deaver uses many sub plots and motives for the bad guys, which makes for a gripping ending. Rune is much more well rounded in this novel from the first and is not as irritatiing. Maybe Deaver is letting her grow up a little in this one, but she still is the same Rune. This is a strong solid read for any Deaver fan.	2001-03-27
US	50277793	R9YTD19H2EE06	0786889624	243700920	The Hearse You Came in On (Hitchcock Sewell Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun New Mystery Series	With a title like &quot;The Hearse You Came In On&quot;, I was immediately hit with the I have to purchase this. Tim Cockey first in hopefully a long series of novels about funeral director Hitchcock Sewell is well written and gives the reader all the chills, shocks and, laughs they could ask for. I believe that the Sewell character has enough development in him too make this a strong solid running series.<br />The story starts with a beautiful mystery lady paying a visit to Sewell's funeral home in Baltimore. The women wants to plan for an upcoming funeral, her own. She gives Sewell a name and then disappears. Then when a different women bearing the same name is found dead Sewell starts a little amateur detective work. Sewell finds himself in the middle of a police case involving bad cops, bad politicians,blackmail videos and illegal toxic waste dumping. Only Sewell and his mystery lady can solve it, but does Sewell have all the pieces?<br />The storyline moves and a very nice but not rushed pace. Sprinkled in are a few very funny parts on the various types of funerals that Sewell must put on. The supporting cast is also very strong including Sewell's ex-wife Julia, Sewell's local pub drinking buddies and a great gang at the community theater that Sewell is invovlved in. Looking forward to the next installment &quot;Hearse Of a Different Color&quot;.	2001-03-23
US	50277793	R1H1FIZVJG5R2I	1582341036	489874479	Gone Bamboo	Books	3	39	43	N	N	Bourdain Drops a Notch	Maybe three stars is a little low. However in rating a book by an author whose previous work was stellar you can't help but be biased. &quot;Gone Bamboo&quot; is an above average novel with strange characters, a good storyline and some great action. However Bourdain gets away from what made his first book so good. The gangster feel is not as pronounced in this book and the restaurant setting is nonexistent.<br />&quot;Gone Bamboo&quot; is about semi retired hit man Henry Denard and his wife Frances. In the begining Henry is hired for one last hit on a mob boss Charlie Wagons. After botching the job Henry and Frances are hiding out on a tropical island. When who moves in next door Charlie Wagons himself, also hiding from the mob in the witness protection program. Henry know the mafia will come looking for Charlie and realizes that he may be found too. Henry befriends the ex-mobster and when the time comes for conflict the action really gets jumping.<br />The major fault of this novel is that it is hard to like Henry or Frances. They are lazy,drug users, which when the actions starts makes it hard to believe their reactions. If you consider reading this book, I strongly suggest you read &quot;Bone in the Throat&quot; first. There are about a half dozen characters who cross over in this book including Tommy Pagano the main character from &quot;Bone In the Throat&quot;.	2001-03-14
US	50277793	R1PHT6Z5ZAKGL0	0380793059	932412203	To Bury the Dead	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Flawed From the Start	When I started reading &quot;To Bury the Dead&quot; I was looking for your typical thriller. The back cover describes the book as one man's search for anwsers. What the book turned out to be was a deep dive into obsession and control. <br />The story is about Paul Kelly a fireman in a New Jersey town. After a rough start in life Paul has turned it around. He has a loving family, good friends and a solid job. Paul also purchased a second house as fixer-upper. The on night Paul's life is changed when his daughter is murdered by a local teenager. This is were the book turned dramatically. Paul becomes obsessed with &quot;why this happened to me&quot; and starts taking serious risks to get the anwsers.<br />By the end of this book, the reader will be shaking his head in complete amazement that Craig Spector has gone this far. The obsession is blown way out of proportion and the ending is very unbelievable. This one might want to stay off your must read list.	2001-02-14
US	50277793	R115XCJZ4C1JQU	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Even Patterson Can Strikeout	Being a huge James Patterson fan I was very excited about getting &quot;Roses are Red&quot;. Instead I got a different look at the world of Alex Cross. Sure he is a hard luck guy, but Patterson takes this way too far in this novel. Don't get me wrong I like Alex Cross, but all the heartache he has is getting just too unbelievable.<br />&quot;Roses are Red&quot; center around bank robberies in the D.C. area. Each plan is laid out and must be followed to a tee, or people will die. Patterson get involved when the FBI believes that the have a serial killer/bank robber. The killer is called the &quot;Mastermind&quot; and Cross and gang go through the usual thrills in hot pursuit. Three other side stories involve a lost love, a new love and an ill child for Cross.<br />In total this book was a jumble. Storylines bouncing back and forth and no ending to most of them. The worst part is the ending when the &quot;Mastermind&quot; identity is revealed. Cross really kicks the reader in the gut with this surprise. This poor performance won't make me stop reading, but I hope this is not the ending of the Cross series.	2001-02-09
US	50277793	R3CFE6AISXZXGU	0446608815	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Patterson in League of his Own	Once again James Patterson proves what many of us already know. He is by far one og the bestb thriller writers today. Patterson brings back ALex Cross and the usual cast of characters, too catch another cold blooded murderer on the streets of Washington D.C.<br />The killer this time is Geoffery Shafer a British Intellgence Officer. Shafer is somewhat different from other Patterson killers. He is not as clever as some, but is obsessed with killing. Shafer plays a horrible role playing game called &quot;The Four Horsemen&quot;, however unlike playing role playing games, Shafer becomes his character and acts out his actions in real life. Quickly Cross is on the case and the chase or game is on.<br />For anyone getting into thriller/fiction this is the best place to start. Patterson's quick short chapter style makes for a breakneck, heart pounding read. Patterson's use of the same format, plus little twist added with each book add to the fun. By far the best series writer out there today.	2000-12-04
US	50277793	R1HBJKJ3XWXVPO	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Regained Form for Hiaasen	After Hiaasen's last two novels &quot;Stromy Weather&quot; and &quot;Lucky You&quot; I wondered if my favorite author had slipped a notch or two. Hiaasen returns with &quot;Sick Puppy&quot; a dark but funny look at the seedy side of political lobbyists. Hiaasen goes too what he knows best in &quot;Sick Puppy&quot;. Corruption, the destruction of Florida's great nature and good old boy ex-govenor Clinton Tyree or Skink to true Hiaasen fans.<br />In &quot;Sick Puppy&quot; Hiassen introduces us too Willy Spree, who is like a Skink Jr. On a highway Spree sees a literbug and decides he will teach this literbug a lesson. The literbug is Palmer Stoat a corrupt lobbyist who is the middle of getting the Shearwater Island Resort throught the capitol. After a few hilarous pranks, Spree finds out about the resort and is determined to stop the resort and save the small island from the bulldozer. He ends up dognapping Stoat's dog, a lovable black lab named Boodle. Boodle whose name gets changed too McGuinn is the star of this novel. The following events are funny involving great characters, both good and bad that only Hiaasen can create.<br />I did notice that this book is much more well rounded than the previous two. Hiassen uses his typical style and timeline to create another fantastic read. This one is a must for any Hiaasen fan.	2000-11-06
US	50277793	R1LGNNWYN86VAX	0515129038	836885890	Top Ten	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Good Idea Falls Short	&quot;Top Ten&quot; had all the promise of being a well thought out and exciting novel. However Ryne Douglas Pearson left way too many gaps in the story. After finishing the novel I wondered a lot about character development. The killer Michalangelo was scary but I found his ability to find his victims very strained and jumpy. I know that he was suppose to be dark, but Pearson sheds very little light on his killer's aspects that the reader must take many leaps of faith to believe the story.<br />&quot;Top Ten&quot; revolves around a serial killer who is placed Number 10 on America's Most Wanted List. He becomes outraged and starts killing off the other members of the list. His killing are quite grusome and anyone with an uneasy stomach might want to avoid this novel all together. Chasing the killer is FBI agent Aerial Grace, who seems to be a moody confusing character. The killing arrive then at Number 5, who has his own secrets and agenda that only Michalangelo can ruin.<br />This novel had many pitfall, mainly in the middle. The start and the ending were fine. but the middle 100 pages makes you wonder and Pearson never tights them up. Why did Michalangelo change his forms of killing? What really were his deep dark secrets that made him tick? If your looking for a new paperback thriller to read this should be lower on the must read list.	2000-10-27
US	50277793	R2M7V3D199N8JY	0553581767	328989327	Manhattan Is My Beat (Rune)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Tad Corny, But Still Fun	Being a more recent Jeffery Deaver fan I was very excited to see that his first five novels where going to be republished. While \\"Manhattan is My Beat\\" is entertaining and has the usual surprises that Deaver throws in, I noticed a small lack of polish and some very corny parts.<br />The story is about occupational drifter Rune (just Rune) who while working at a video store befriends an older customer named Mr. Kelly. While making a pickup for Mr. Kelly, Rune finds her friend murdered. She doesn't like the way the police are handling the homicide, so Rune takes matters into her own hands. Her first clue is Mr. Kelly's favorite movie which he rented every time he came into the video store. The movie is about an actual bank heist where the money was hidden and never recovered. Rune believes that Mr. Kelly had found the money through the movie, and that was why he was killed. So Rune starts her quest.<br />The Rune character is likeable, but a little odd in many ways. She is not your typical Deaver character. In total the story moves along, and any reader should enjoy the plot shifts and twists at the end. For the Deaver fan this is not \\"The Bone Collector\\" or \\"Devil's Teardrop\\" but a nice look at what Deaver was like when he started out as a novelist.	2000-10-19
US	50277793	R2TW2RNXR43EDZ	0688164412	282861788	The Desperate Season	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Chilling and Heart Renching	Michael Blaine's &quot;The Desperate Season&quot; is one of those books that will last with the reader a long time after they put it down. Unfortunetly the book lost more stars as I started to think about after I finished. The book is written in a great narrative, with each chapter written in a different character. The characters however are very unlikable from the mentally inbalanced son, too the daughter who just wants to get away from it all.<br />The story is about the Coleman family whose son Maurice is released from a mental institution too early. He goes to his home town and purchases a gun and then starts looking for his family. The family consists of a covering up Father, an ignoring Mother and a distant Sister. The story jumps back in forth in time and you learn little side sins that all the characters have committed, the reader must try to put all the pieces together to get the true message of the novel.<br />In total the more I thought about I realized that I missed the message. I didn't understand why Maurice is the way he is, and what crimes have the other familiy members committed to be put into this terror. Even the non-family characters are non-likable and sleazy in there own way. I believe the novel would of been much better if Blaine expanded a little more, for me it just was not enough.	2000-10-06
US	50277793	RYY2KS1SW206R	0688167837	161050730	Hammerhead Ranch Motel: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	That Serge and His Briefcase!	After my review of &quot;Florida Roadkill&quot; I hoped that Tim Dorsey would become a more rounded writer. While I liked &quot;Florida Roadkill&quot; the mass amounts of characters made the book a little confusing. In &quot;Hammerhead Ranch Motel&quot;, Dorsey starts out the same way. Many characters and the events jumping around with a strange timeline. However around page fifty Dorsey tightens it down and cleverly ties up the loose ends and gives a great story full of action and hilarious characters.<br />Once again we find Serge Storms in the quest of a briefcase with 5 million dollars in drug money. He ends up at the Hammerhead Ranch Motel were a wild cast of characters are assembled. Zargoza the hotel manager who happens to work for the Diaz Boys, a pitiful excuse for drug dealers. Lenny the Don Johnson look alike who has an illegal NASA moon rock. Two Alabama grocery clerks on the run for a crime the didn't commit. A wrongly diagnosed businessman who thinks he is dying and decided to become a vigilante. A bunch of Ernest Hemingway look alikes and a shrinking mayor. Mix all these characters up along with the briefcase and incoming hurricane, and you get one great book.<br />For the first time Dorsey reader I suggest that you read &quot;Florida Roadkill&quot; first. Then settle in for a great romp in &quot;Hammerhead Ranch Motel&quot;. Also, is you think you have lost track of an event or a character keep reading. Dorsey has a way of catching up the reader further into the book and everything will snap together. Can't wait for the third installment.	2000-10-03
US	50277793	RDCQDXV9GFN9W	1582341028	615107411	Bone in the Throat	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Wonderful Characters Abound in Fantastic Mafia Story	Let's Face it the gangster genre needed some help. Not since Steve Thayer's \\"Saint Mudd\\" has there been a solid mafia based novel. I stumbled upon Anthony Bourdain's and found his first novel, \\"Bone in the Throat\\" full of vivid characters that jump off the page, a story line that was very tight and not watered down, which also has a good solid pace.<br />The story revolves around Tommy Pagano who after losing his father due to mob ties, decides to try something else. Tommy refuses his Uncle Sal's offer to join the family business and chases down his dream of becoming a famous chef. Tommy however lands a job as a sous-chef at a restaurant, which his Uncle does business at. Tommy ends up doing one (against his better judgment) for his uncle and quickly finds himself in the middle of an FBI investigation. Tommy's friends, mainly Chef Ricard find themselves being pinched for information. Tommy faces hard time, and if he talks he knows what will happen next.<br />To find out what happens I strongly recommend picking up \\"Bone in the Throat\\". It is a true treat for those who enjoy mafia fiction. Even those who don't will enjoy the colorful characters, awesome dialogue and fast paced story.	2000-09-25
US	50277793	R1W6Z3124SCQH1	0440235081	651225939	Sea Change	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great Addition To the Genre	For sometime I have been awaiting the emergence of a new writer in the  ocean thriller genre. With Peter Benchley's work slipping and David Poyer  going mostly into techno-thriller, it was time for someone new. James  Powlik does a wonderful job in &quot;Sea Change&quot;. Powlik writes true  believable characters and gives you a quick scary storyline that most will  enjoy. <br />&quot;Sea Change&quot; takes place in the Pacfic Northwest, where  main character Brock Garner starts to find dead zones in the oceans. Large  holes with no life forms in it. Soon victims start appearing on land with  horrible injuries, that result in death. The deaths include Garner's best  friend. Soon Garner realizes that he is following a plankton bloom carring  a dangerous dinoflaglete that will eat the flesh off any warm blooded  creature. A chase ensues to capture the bloom and to kill it before it  reaches any highly populated seaport city. <br />The action in the story is  great, but does get bogged down a little with a lot of technical jargon  that Powlik tries to get through quickly. The use of arconyms is a little  troublesome, since there are so many you forget what each stands for. There  are some very gory scenes in the book but, nothing that will make you stop  reading. With the action and the information, it makes for a great beach  read. Just don't go in the water!!	2000-09-18
US	50277793	RK92A2U2AXN0Z	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Great New Research, Same Old Format	It has been a very long time since I really enjoyed a Michael Crichton  novel. His last three &quot;Airframe&quot;, &quot;Lost World&quot; and  &quot;Disclosure&quot; made me think that Crichton had lost a step or two  in the creative process. He does come back with &quot;Timeline&quot;, which  is a very well researched and compelling story. &quot;Timeline&quot; moves  quickly and is has a lot of action for any reader, but readers of Crichton  will see one glaring aspect that costs the novel in the  ending.<br />&quot;Timeline&quot; is about a group of historians who get send  back in time to find there mentor. Through the use of quantum physics a  &quot;microsoft&quot; type company is trying to exploit the past for  profit. This is until things start to go wrong. There head historian goes  back to the 1340s and never returns. The young historians all agree to go  find him. Of course the Hundred Years War is going on, and the story  plunges through the days of knights, seiges and trickery. The young  historians find themselves right in the heat of the battle. The constant  &quot;will they get back to the present day&quot; is the major antagonist  throughout the book.<br />Once again Michael Crichton proves that he is one of  the best at researching for a novel. &quot;Timeline&quot; makes great  efforts to truly show what the 1340s were like. In addition Crichton  explainations of quantum physics are easily understood and do not take up  the entire book. The one thing that bothered me was the fact that the story  runs the sameline as &quot;Sphere&quot;. If you have read  &quot;Sphere&quot; you know how it is going to end, and  who gets killed.  Very rarely was I fooled by an outcome. Time to get a new timeline Michael.	2000-08-23
US	50277793	R3B5UJNHE117BW	0786889667	274788543	The First Victim	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Good Thriller That Gets Too Bogged Down	Being a big Ridley Pearson fan, I could not wait to jump into &quot;The  First Victim&quot;. What I found was the typical Pearson novel with great  insight, solid character development and quick paced story. Pearson only  delivers the first two in &quot;The First Victim&quot;. The novel is a bear  to start. The first 100 pages are down right dull and the action is very  slow. What action there is mentioned on the side. Where the story does get  rolling is the middle, as Lou Boldt and his team start piecing together  evidence. Sadly the ending slows again and is very much a let down.<br />The  story revolves around illegal immigrants, that are forced to work in  sweatshops. An accident pulls Boldt into the investigation where he finds  three illegals dead. Reporter Stevie McNeal starts investigating also  looking for a big scoop. When McNeal's sister ends up missing, while  helping McNeal by going undercover, the pressure to find her helps push the  novel. It slowly becomes a three-way tug of war between Boldt, McNeal and  an INS agent named Coughlie.<br />The one thing I took away from this novel is  the fact that the news media have way too much power. The use of the First  Admendment is all over this book. Half way throught this novel I started  disliking the McNeal character. This may not be Pearson's best, but if you  are a true fan you will give it a try. New Pearson readers may want to try  one of his older novels and try this one later.	2000-08-14
US	50277793	R2Z4LP4TV969QW	0671038443	79347454	The Devil's Teardrop	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Wild Ride By Deaver	Once again Jeff Deaver pulls out all the stops in &quot;The Devil's Teardrop&quot;. Deaver takes the reader on another rollercoster ride that does not let up until the very end. His remarkable characters and very  scary plot make this one of the best summer paperbacks out there this  year.<br />The story centers on shootings that occur on New Year's Eve 1999,  in Washington D.C. An extortion note is delivered saying that the gunman  will kill again at certain times unless the city pays 20 million dollars.  Plus the note claims if the extortionist if caught or killed the gunman  will keep on killing. Then the extortionist is killed in a accident, and  the FBI headed by Margaret Lucus must find the gunman. She enlists the help  of Parker Kincaid a document expert, to track down the gunman through  professional assesment of the extortion note. <br />Deaver use the timeline  series so well in his book. It is very similar to &quot;The Bone  Collector&quot; which there is a race against time before the next  killings. All the characters are very well rounded and Deaver's devilish  sense of humor pops up a lot in the dialogue. Once again there are many  surprise endings so hang on tight!	2000-07-31
US	50277793	R1RJMNNR9XX18H	0812562631	469291953	A Rage in Paradise	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Classy	It has been some time since I've read an Ralph Arnote novel. His wonderful characters come jumping off the page. Arnote has a great sense of mixing the crime fighting super rich like Willy Hanson and mixing in the rotten  bad guys. At times Arnote is a mix between Elmore Leonard and Lawrence  Sanders<br />This story centers on Cliff Blaylock, friend of Willy Hanson and  coin collector. On his way home from a coin show Blaylock is robbed of his  briefcase containing many coins, one which is a valuable mint condition  penny. The robbery does not go off without a hitch. Blaylock shoots one of  the robbers, only to find out that he has killed his next door neighbors  son. Blaylock trys to cover up the killing until friend Hanson starts  investigating on good faith to find the coins. Then the second robber  starts blackmailing Blaylock for the the killing. <br />This story really zips  along. You can also feel the tension the Blaylock is going through. Heavy  Leval is your typical bad guy, who is easy to hate. Peaches Collins is  another one of Arnote's middle characters who is generally good but caught  in a bad place. In total the characters here are worth the read.	2000-07-14
US	50277793	R1BU6AHZTWTP0V	0786011149	36141406	The Trench	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Much Better Than Meg	I was hoping that Steve Alten's sequel to &quot;Meg&quot; had something more to offer. I was very pleased to see that Alten has added to his talents, by adding some side storylines and cut down on the carnage of his  first novel. This is by no means a stellar novel, it will keep you enticed  enough to race through to the end.<br />This story also revolves around Jonas  Taylor and his fears of the Trench. Taylor now works at the Tanaka  Institute taking care of Angel. The offspring megaladon of Meg. Lawsuits  have bankrupted the Institute and Masao Tanaka is forced to do business  with a group of explorers interested in the deeps of the trench led by  Benedict Singer, who has his own hidden agenda. Angel then escapes the  institute and we are on a chase through the Pacific Ocean, ending in the  Mariana Trench.<br />The side story with Singer makes this novel read like a  techno-thriller. This is nice addition for Alten who does write great  action sequences for the megaladons. However with &quot;Meg&quot; it was to  overdone and the novel became almost comic book like. &quot;The  Trench&quot; is more real and Jonas Taylor fighting his demons within  himself are more believable in this on.	2000-07-03
US	50277793	R99RZJOFSSBRJ	0345432185	106087760	Welcome to Paradise	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Very Well Done In It's Simple Form	When Reading Laurence Shames novel &quot;Welcome to Paradise&quot; don't go looking for some deep impacting novel. Shames takes a simple idea keeps it simple throughout the book and gives you a nice quick entertaining read.  There are few characters and the pace flows by that this is a one night  read.<br />&quot;Welcome to Paradise&quot; is the typical wrong place wrong  time novel. Furniture salesman Al Tuschmann is on vacation in South  Florida. Tuschmann is trying to enjoy himself, but is the victim of some  bizarre violent acts. Little does Tuschmann know that Al Maracotta a New  York gangster is also in town, and a couple of this Al's enemies have hired  a couple of roughnecks to make his life miserable. The roughnecks get there  information crossed and start harassing the wrong the Al. Throw in a  gangster's gal, a couple of strange dogs and the weirdness that is South  Florida and you have yourself a nice little scenerio to read through.<br />I  really enjoyed this quick little novel. I have read other Shames novels and  though they go a little deeper, this one is my favorite. If you like this  style check out Ed McBain's &quot;Downtown&quot; which is about a Florida  salesman in New York.	2000-06-22
US	50277793	R26IF4JWG4N2SV	0380732335	643428545	Florida Road Kill: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Very Funny In Parts, Disturbing In Others	This being my favorite genre I was very interested in what first time author Tim Dorsey had to offer. Dorsey does a fine job with the character presentation and does display the lunacy of South Florida very well. Dorsey  tries hard to be like Carl Hiaasen but lacks the polish, that will come  with a few more novels.<br />The story revovlves around many characters and  case of money. The main character Serge is well thought out. A man with the  love of history of Florida and a very brutal side. His sidekicks Coleman  and Sharon are the most fun in the novel, tagging along with Serge's  antics, and hoping they can find the money. Dave and Sean are also very  likeable as the unknowing heros. The money switches hands a few times and  all characters end up battling for it, at the Southern most part of  Florida.<br />The problem with this book is the number of characters. There  are way too many to follow and some get lost in the story line and then  reappear a hundred pages later. The story get weighted down with all the  major players. The killings are very gruesome and not for everybody. In  total will wait for the next one, which could prove to be much better	2000-06-20
US	50277793	R3MTQJ2A6TPVI1	0786862610	672395112	Indigo Slam: An Elvis Cole Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Noir Style	I have purchased many Robert Crais novels and finally got a chance to start reading some of them. I could almost kick myself for waiting this long. Crais has a great detective noir style similiar to Spillane and  Hammett. However in this story the client is not a woman looking for her  husband, but a group of young children looking for their lost  father.<br />Crais' main character P.I. Elvis Cole takes on the case to find  the missing father. He figures it will be a quick easy job not knowing what  is in store for him. The kids claim that the father is gone looking for a  new printing job. However Cole finds out that the father is not what the  kids claim. The journey takes Cole on a wild trip with encounters with drug  dealers, Russian mobsters, Vietanesse rebels, and crooked U.S. Marshals.  The story also ends up in Disneyland a great place to end a story with  three kids.<br />Crais is a pure joy in this novel. His characters of Cole and  partner Pike are closely related to Robert Pearker's Spencer and Hawk. The  kids are very well written, and all three are different instead of  cardboard cutouts, which is how most kids get portrayed in this genre.  I  highly recommend this one and look forward to much more.	2000-06-12
US	50277793	R21ZHFKOGAEZXA	0553580957	426372767	Known Dead: A Novel (Carl Houseman)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Harstad the Best At What He Does	You will be hard pressed to find a better police procedural novelist then Donald Harstad. With only his second novel he shows that he can write in a great narrative voice able of invoking all ranges of emotions in a reader.  With his main character Carl Houseman, Harstad takes the reader on the  exact same rollercoster his likeable sheriff is on.<br />The storyline for  &quot;Known Dead&quot; revolves around the killing of a DEA agent who was  investgating a marijjuna field in an Iowa state park. Also killed is a  lowly local drug dealer. The killings look like an ambush and Houseman  starts to investigate the drug angle, only to find more than he bargined  for. The tale leads down the road of right wing milita groups and this is  were Harstad's use of narative makes the reader almost parnoid.<br />Harstad  brings back great characters from &quot;Eleven Days&quot; such as Hester,  Sally and Lamar, and adds the new character FBI agent Volont who I hope  will appear in more novels in the future. Harstad does get a little more  technical in this one and cuts down on the gore from &quot;Eleven  Days&quot; Still it is a quick interesting read that trully makes you  wonder about America's Heartland.	2000-06-08
US	50277793	RUQALRDTOCC3C	0061056901	746993744	Interesting Times (Discworld)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Lot Fun- From a Non-Fantasy Reader	If you look at my other reviews you will see my taste tends to stay away from this genre. However a friend of mine suggested that I pick up a couple of Terry Pratchett books. I finally broke down and this is my first and not  the last Pratchett novel for me.<br />This strange story deals with the  loveable character Rincewind (who is a few of Pratchett's novels).  Rincewind is selected by the professors at Unseen University, to be sent to  a far away waring land to act as the great wizard. Rincewind unwillingly  goes and is thrown in the middle of a mini-revelution. There he runs into  his friend Cohen the Barbarian and his Silver Horde. A group of senior  citizen barbarians. Together they embark on an a great adventure in a  strange land. Can't give away the ending but the last few pages will fly  by, as the very funny ending nears.<br />If you are a first time Pratchett  reader then you must get into the story about 50 pages till you get use to  the language and the unusual names that Pratchett uses. The other  references to Disc-World novel are well done, allowing a reader to dive in  the middle of the series without being left behind in the storyline. What  Pratchett lacks in story telling he makes up with humor and great imagery  that is needed for a fantasy writer.	2000-06-01
US	50277793	R2EFFN8QMX9GXM	0671511092	602975638	Deviant Way	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Average Run of the Mill Novel Again!	I could almost just write see my review of &quot;The Violet Hour&quot; by Richard Montanari. Again Montanari comes up with a great idea, but somewhere in the middle he loses track of where he is going and get himself  as well as the reader confused. <br />The story is about a series of murders  of young women in Cleveland. The main character Jack Paris the best  homicide cop is on there trail. The story takes Paris through the typical  police procedures and leading up to great ending, until Montanari shifts  gears and takes the story a different way that just does not match up with  the start.<br />I do give this novel three stars do to the fact the story line  is great for a thriller reader. It loses out a little on poor character  development, mainly with Jack Paris. He is supposed to be the best cop with  a high arrest rate, but he is pretty dumb at critical point in the novel.  Did like the character Rita and the Nick Raposo charater added a nice  balance. My advice try it, for the scare but don't hope for a classic.	2000-05-21
US	50277793	REL22L6DPDU61	0446608491	165636356	Double Reverse	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Jerry Maguire On the Dark Side	I had my doubts when I purchased this book. I seriously did not think that ex-football player Tim Green's new novel had anything to offer in my taste of books. I was wonderfully surprised to find that Green's style is quick,  gritty and makes you think that the NFL can be just as mean and rotten then  any other business in the world.<br />Green's story is about two running backs  from the same team who are different in ever way shape and form. Trane  Jones the halfback who is known for his blazing speed along with his temper  and bad guy attitude, and Clark Cromwell a born-again christian fullback  known for his blocking skills. Clark had just gotten dumped by his not so  nice girlfriend Annie Cassidy, and is shocked to find out that she is know  dating Trane. The hatered between them blows up throughout the first half  of the book, until Annie ends up murdered. Who did it? The hothead Trane in  a fit of anger or a jealous Clark?<br />The story sits well in the middle of  Green's view of the evil side of the NFL, which is player agents. Conrad  Dobbins who is Trane's agent is the bad Jerry Maguire. This novel will make  you think who exactly has the power in the NFL. A way to predictable ending  costs Green the fifth star, but overall was a fun ride.	2000-05-15
US	50277793	R19BXOK1K67GMX	0312970277	644301442	The Court (Charley Sloan Courtroom Thrillers)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Flat and Dull	I have read many William J. Coughlin novels. I have to agree with another reviewer that this is not a Coughlin book. Since his death, his older books are being rewritten and republished. Who ever is doing the rewrites is  destroying Coughlin's good name.<br />This novel tells the story of a four  major cases going to the Supreme Court. The Court is split 4 and 4 , with  one judge the swing man. When this Judge has stroke and dies the hunt for a  new judge is on. The President is looking for a judge that will vote for  keeping the Electoral College in place. This the only way the President can  win the next election. In total the other cases are overlooked.<br />This  novel was trying to show the integrity of Washington D.C. It was suppose to  show how one hand washes the other and so forth. This novel tried but gave  up half way through, and I believe it was the half that was re-written.  Also I found gross errors in Michigan geography, such as when flying from  Washington D.C. to Detroit how do you fly over Ann Arbor? Coughlin would  never make that error.	2000-05-06
US	50277793	R3OOI2IVK9IDT	0451199960	826374705	The Alternate	Books	2	6	6	N	N	One Bad Apple Destroys the Novel	When John Martel started this novel, he had all the beginings of a great courtroom novel. Then he made his first mistake. He titled it, and made a title character that is so unbelievable that the novel just dissolves into a poor effort.<br />The story revolves around the murder trial of Elliot  Ashford an ex-congressman with possible mob ties. All the lawyers in this  case have hidden agendas and are well thought out. Barrett Dickson and  Grace Harris are very well rounded and likeable. Then enters the alternate  juror Amanda Keller. An ex-actress with delusions of grandeur. She starts  by slowly breaking all the rules of being a juror and then things get  messy.<br />The Keller character is so unrealistic in this novel. Martel  portrays the lawyers to be very competent, but even they get fooled by  Keller which is hard to believe. Martel gets two stars for the surrounding  characters, but no more due to Keller	2000-05-02
US	50277793	RZJZS1E6ER8TA	0380725355	997279820	Everybody Dies (Matthew Scudder)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Block/Scudder Always Worth It!	I am not the biggest Lawrence Block fan in the world, I have not read every novel that Block has written. I do pick up one on occasion and always find one thing true. The books are quick noir like enjoyable reads. Matt  Scudder is one of the more likeable characters in any mystery series out  there today.<br />&quot;Everybody Dies&quot; starts when Scudder and his  gangster friend Mick Ballou doing their usual gangster/private investigator  act. However Scudder gets involved in revengeful war between Ballou and an  unknown group. Soon the body count quickly rises and Scudder and Ballou  must use each other wits of the city to survive. This is a great gangster  novel with Ballou a character you now is not very nice the most riveting  .<br />Block tends to mix in a lot of characters from other books, like Lisa  Holtzman from &quot;Devil Knows Your Dead&quot;. With all the Scudder  novels out there and if you have not read them all, like myself, it may  seem that characters are popping up all over. Block does do a nice job in  trying to describe who is who. Overall it is fast paced and exciting.	2000-04-14
US	50277793	R77XGCAIXBDQ3	0316693294	265763987	Cat and Mouse (Alex Cross Novels)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Patterson Turns up the Heat	Everytime I pick up a James Patterson book I also start wondering if this will be a good as the last. &quot;Cat &amp; Mouse&quot; does not disappoint. The story is written in short quick chapters and flows in and  out of the multiple storylines with ease.<br />This novel starts out as the  sequel to &quot;Along Came a Spider&quot; with killer Gary Soneji out of  prison and on another killing rampage. Alex Cross must once again out smart  Soneji. However there is another killer on the loose. The uncatachable Mr.  Smith, whose murder spree has spread to Europe. A new FBI agent,named  Pierce is in pursuit of this bad guy and Cross and Pierce end up working on  each other cases, with a few terrifing surprises along the way.<br />Patterson  has done another great job with his usual cast of characters, and now he  has Cross falling in love with Christine the schoolteacher from &quot;Jack  and Jill&quot;. This storyline is a nice change that breaks up the intense  action. The love story however does not take up most of the book, unlike  what my fellow Aussie reviewer below states. The entire book is well  balanced.	2000-03-22
US	50277793	R25OC75L5B65HD	0843946830	918151682	The Poker Club	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Eerie &amp; Palpable	I was a little leery of this novel at the start. I purchased this not knowing that Ed Gorman's genre was horror, which is not what I normally read. I was quite pleased that Gorman keeps any supernatural element out,  and kept the horror to more true to life issues. The novel reads like a  thriller, but with the &quot;It could happen to you&quot; element the story  line was very scary.<br />The story like the title is based on a four man  poker club, Who encounter a burglar one night during a card playing  session. All four members have a different idea what to do and before they  can go to the police the burglar is killed trying to get away. This starts  the ball rolling and it does not stop till the book comes to an end. The  main character Aaron Tyler trys to set examples, of what they should do but  will the others listen. The club also knows that there is a second burglar,  and when the second buglar starts stalking them the action is  wonderful.<br />This novel reminded me about Scott Smith's &quot;A Simple  Plan&quot;. The element of should we go to the police or is it too late.  The characters are nice mix and the setting of nice suburbia and the  burglar's home in the worst part of the city is a nice public issue piece.  The ending was a little bit predictable, however the ride to get there was  pure enjoyment.	2000-02-27
US	50277793	RLE0G4560F1LD	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Back to Basics for King	I can already hear the arguements of all King fans. Half will say this a great novel the other half will say it is just not scary enough. I am in the first group. Many years ago I lost interest in King's novels. They were  either too complex or bizarre. &quot;The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon&quot;  goes back to the primary basics of story telling. This is a true man versus  nature novel, or in this case a little girl versus nature.<br />The novel is  about nine year old Trisha McFarlane who on a hiking trip with her Mother  and Brother, takes a small detour and ends up helplessly lost in the woods.  Trisha must overcome the elements plus her own vivid imagination to survive  her lengthy ordeal. Slowly Trisha learns how to survive and deal with the  fears of what nasty things that lurk the woods. Trisha's only finds comfort  in her walkman, which she can listen to the Boston Red Sox games, and be  with her hero relief pitcher Tom Gordon.<br />The story is well written and  flows so well that it it can be a one night read. As for the lack of  horror, I found that King uses one of the scarist elements out there, a  child's imagination. He takes the &quot;monster under the bed&quot;  syndrome and blows it to gigantic proportions. This can be considered  King's &quot;Call of the Wild&quot; or his &quot;Old Man and the Sea&quot;  Novel. King truly shows he still has his literary juices flowing.	2000-02-19
US	50277793	R2EBPQE348562Z	0812567145	93095342	Windy City (Larry Cole)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fun Page Turner	Trying a change of pace from reading and reviewing my usual novels, I picked up the Chicago based novel&quot;Windy City' by Hugh Holton. I do feel that I have a new author to add to my library.<br />&quot;Windy  City&quot; is about gruesome murders that parody the deaths written in best  selling novels. The killer the wealthy Margo DeWitt believes that she is  her favorite character &quot;Magda: from her favorite novel. Det. Larry  Cole the main character enlists the help of a team of authors who try to  figure what DeWitt's next move will be. When they figure out that Cole's  young will be the next victim. the story really gets rolling. I finished  the last 160 pages in one night.<br />Holton's quick short chapter writing  style makes for an easy read. Watch out for some corny parts which makes me  think that a movie is on the way. Putting that aside the thrills and chills  are non-stop.	2000-02-14
US	50277793	R2SRN07E9YPZME	0425161498	858020225	Dead Silent	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Flat Out Awful	To Say Robert Ferrgino's forth novel &quot;Dead Silent&quot; is disappointing would be a major understatement. &quot;Dead Silent lacks the imagination, grittiness, and sharp dialogue that past Ferrigno novels have.  I know Ferrigno tries to show the Los Angeles dark side, however this story  is too mundane to keep the reader interested.<br />The novel is about ex-rock  star Nick Carbonne who comes home and finds his best friend and his wife  shot to death in the hot tub together. Carbonne is the main suspect, and  teams up with the best friend's girlfriend to find the real killer. Their  journey takes them deep into the underworld of the music industry, phone  sex industry and the mob.<br />In total this book is a major flop. The  characters are all the same cookie cutter charatcers. They are all know it  all, pinhead punks. Even the Blue Angel character who held the beginings  the book together, dissolved into something unlikable. What happened to  characters like Quinn and Jen from &quot;Dead Man's Dance&quot; and  &quot;Cheshire Moon&quot;. What happened to the great plots like Ferrigno's  first novel &quot;The Horse Latitudes&quot;. Hopefully Ferrigno can regain  his form.	2000-02-08
US	50277793	R2CUOKIVBZEUWM	0688137512	321010785	The Dead Horse Paint Company: A Mac Fontana Mystery (Mac Fontana Mystsery)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not Quite What I Expected!	Earl Emerson's mystery the &quot;The Dead Horse Paint Company&quot; was a  novel that caught me off guard. This being the first of Mac Fontana novels  that I have purchased, I was a little disappointed at what I found. I  expected a novel similar to a forensic medicine novel, only with a  firefighter taste. What I got was another middle of the road murder  mystery.<br />The story is about Mac Fontana fire chief in a small Seattle  suburb. Fontana formally worked in Seattle when the disasterous Paint  Company Fire occured, killing nine other firefighters. Years later the fire  chief who botched up the Paint Company fire is found dead in a burning car  in Fontana's new hometown. Fontana investigates and finds many past enemys  of the former chief. The characters that make up the list suspects are the  best thing of the book.<br />In total this is a good mystery, but don't expect  anything too deep. Emerson's writing style is choppy, as the stories pace  is not very fluid. Emerson also has a tendency to throw to much masculinity  throughout the book. Not for everyone.	2000-02-06
US	50277793	R3TAUUHR99B10J	0451176820	406755002	Saint Mudd: A Novel of Gangsters and Saints	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Simply Wonderful	There are not many writers out there these days that can write a good solid gangster novel. Steve Thayer shows that the gangster novel genre is not dead. Thayer has woven all the elements together to make the reader not want to put this book down.<br />The story revolves around Grover Mudd, a  World War I vet, and now journalist in St. Paul Minnesota. The era is the  depression and Al Capone is not the only gangster in the nation. Just up  the river from Chicago in St. Paul a new syndicate selling opium is on the  rise. Mudd uses his column too expose the mob, and in turn gets himself in  trouble with these bad guys.<br />Mixing in real life mobsters like John  Dillinger and Babyface Nelson, Thayer takes the reader on a real joyride  through one of this countries more interesting eras. Strongly recommend	2000-02-04
US	50277793	R3MSGV9FRP3618	0380795329	632603404	The Violet Hour	Books	2	1	6	N	N	A Intriguing, but Very Disjointed Novel	&quot;The Violet Hour&quot; by Richard Montanari delivers everything that is written on the back cover. The story of serial killer avenging the loss of his love twenty years later. His victims all fall one by one, paying the  price of there crimes, they committed on that Halloween night. Through all  this carnage we find Nick Stella, a reporter looking for a big story, and  finding much-much more than he bargained for. In total this story has all  the qualities of being a first rate thriller, however were the idea was  there, the follow through by Montanari never comes.<br />The novel is very  disjointed. At times you lose what character is talking, or what characters  are invovled. The story almost skips to much that I believe not only the  reader but the author got confused. The late killings in the book added  nothing to the story except to add to the body count, and Montanari never  came to final conclusions for many issues in the book. Montanari has to be  writer who works without an outline, it seemed he kept changing his mind as  the story unfolded, which left me feeling a little ripped off.<br />For any  lover of the genre, I do recommend the book. It is very diffucult to follow  but will give the needed chills for any thriller reader. Will check  &quot;Deviant Way&quot; to see if that is a tighter book. Maybe this was  just a slip from Montanari.	2000-01-30
US	50277793	RVZOW0KDEFZHL	0380975068	948903576	The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Moore At It Again!	To steal the quote of the inside cover  this book can be best described as &quot;Bridges of Madison County&quot; meets &quot;Godzilla&quot;. Christopher Moore has a way of mixing zany true to life characters with unbelivable supernatural elements. If you are looking for a serious read.  this is not for you, but if you allow your imagination to run amok, Moore's  books are a true pleasure.<br />Moore introduces new characters, and mixes  them in with some old, mainly from 'Practical Demonkeeping&quot; to tell  the tale of a man eating sea creature(named Steve) who falls in love with  an aging &quot;Xena&quot; like actress in a small California coastal town.  Sounds crazy? Yes, but it is true fun with a laugh a page  writing style  that only Moore has.<br />The characters are all likeable goofballs whose  quirkiness and downfalls  make their antics more belivable. It is a very  quick read and is definitely worth the time. You won't put this book down  with some earth-shattering revelations, just a few laughs and the feeling  of being throughly entertained.	2000-01-27
US	50277793	RBF5A2BKH0LVB	0440212626	860243922	Hard Fall	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pearson's Best	Ridley Pearson's &quot;Hard Fall&quot; was the first on many that I have had the pleasure of reading. The novel takes off from page one and continues to fly all the way to the suspenseful ending. The premise  revolves around FBI agent Cam Daggett trying to stop terrorist Anthony  Kort. Kort is a German explosive expert known for a series of plane  crashes, on in which Daggett's parents were killed and his son left  handicapped. Kort's experience allows him to disable the cockpit crew and  use the plane as a missle to crash on a main target.<br />The action and  excitement are pure joy as Pearson slowly brings both Kort and Daggett  together. The opening sequence at Dulles Airport is a true nail biter. The  character development is very solid down to Daggett's partner Lynn Greene,  Daggett's girlfriend Carrie and his son Duncan.<br />For William Goldman fans  look for the a chapter that is truly reminiscent of the novel  &quot;Marathon Man&quot;. This quick read should be on any  Suspense/thriller novel lovers book shelf or to read list.	2000-01-27
US	50277793	RBSY6AXOD1SXJ	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Fun, Insightful Read	I have always been drawn toward novels with some sort of historical theme. Aaron Elkins' &quot;Loot&quot; which is about missing paintings, that were looted during World War II. The book starts with a quick history lesson then jumps to present day were one of the missing paintings shows up in a  Boston pawnshop. A series of murders send main character Ben Revere, an art  expert on a chase to find the killers plus the rightful owners of the  precious works.<br />Revere ends up running all over Europe, and Elkins  descriptions of cities like Vienna and St. Petersburg make you feel like  you have been there. The story is paced well and all of the characters are  well rounded, almost too well rounded in the case of Revere. Revere is a  true fence sitter, and at times his wishy-washy attitude was a little over  the top.<br />In total Elkins does deliver a fine job keeping the reader  engaged with a fine mix of action and informative data. Elkins invokes some  thought provoking questions. Is looting works of art during wartime a  necessary evil, to keep the works from being destroyed?  Overall a very  well done and enjoyable read.	2000-01-26
US	50277793	R20WK9RO7MODXD	0553574957	942337508	The Burning Man	Books	2	9	11	N	N	Still Searching	I am still searching for an author who can take over this genre. Phillip Margolin's &quot;Burning Man&quot; fell way short of expectation. The book was very trite and very predictable, with to many Grishamish charatcers.  Margolin throws all the typical ingredents in the book stirs them up and  you get the same results, just another blah lawyer novel.<br />Since William  Coughlin's death and John Grisham writing movie books, there is no writer  in this genre to be the leader. Margolin is worth another read, but if your  looking for something inspired and different this is not the book to be  reading.	2000-01-24
US	50277793	R152S9AGTSVPCN	067102471X	427512567	A Five-Year Plan	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Disappointing for Kerr	I have read a couple other Phillip Kerr novels and found them to be very complete, well researched and truly captivating. &quot;A Five Year Plan&quot; does not however have any of the flare that Kerr's past novels  have. The story for the most part drags, there is no interesting facts or  history, and characters that the reader coundn't care a less about.<br />This  novel made me wonder if Kerr just published this to get a movie deal. It is  missing all the essential parts to make a good novel, but has just a basic  storyline that will tranfer to film. For the new &quot;Kerr&quot; reader I  suggest &quot;Esau&quot; or &quot;The Grid&quot; which are much better well  rounded books.	2000-01-24
US	50277793	R58FQ2H97ZXDJ	0312955731	905180108	White Shark	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Scary but weak	Peter Benchley has gone down a path that too many writers face. He has totally run out of ideas. This story does take place on the high seas, however Benchley gets away from the true terrors of the deep, which is his  strong suit. <br />The story revolves around a genetically made killer, that  can live on land and sea. Benchley tries to bring together the cruelity of  man and place it with the killer instinct of great white shark. The idea is  there, but the book will keep you shaking your head, as of the whereabouts  of what made Benchley famous. The characters were not well rounded and made  the story very dull. There are some great moments of gore and terror, but  they are to few and far between. If this is your first Benchley you might  want to grab one of his older classics. This one missed the mark a long  way!	2000-01-24
US	50277793	RNN1QXZ2JGM9E	0446604658	612130498	Lucky You	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lucky Carl	Being a huge Carl Hiaassen fan, I could not wait for &quot;Lucky You&quot; to come out. The previous novel &quot;Stormy Weather&quot; was showing a little lack of imagination for Hiaasen, and I was hoping he would get it  back.<br />&quot;Lucky You&quot; hits most of the times but misses a few  cylinders in the long run. The idea of two winning lotto tickets and one  winner not happy that they must share, who decide to steal the other ticket  from a single African American women. The bad guys once again are the best  written characters in the book. Hiaasen does dive into looney topics of  South Florida again, mainly looking at christanity taken to extremes.  Hiaasen is still the best at the genre, he may be slipping a little but  there is nothing in this book to make you stay away. Carl is lucky that  this is not his first book, we all can say that  he may be in a rut, but  will come out of it. Looking forward to &quot;Sick Puppy&quot;.	2000-01-24
US	50277793	R2YIW1P15RNN5K	0553581481	969826215	Eleven Days (Carl Houseman)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Eleven Days--Best of the Year	Don Harstad's &quot;Eleven Days&quot; is the by far the best book I read in 1999. The chilling detail and terrific narrative that Harstad brings makes him one of the best police procedure novelist. This and it is only  his first novel. Harstad being an ex-cop gives you the gritty real cop of  the world. I'm tired of most novels were the cops are perfect and do  nothing wrong. Harstad's characters are more human.<br />Harstad also has the  ability to let the reader know that something bad is going to happen when  his characters cannot. The whole time reading the book I found myself  saying &quot;turn around&quot; or &quot;go back and double check&quot;. It  truly made the book a chilling read.<br />There are parts in this book that  are quite grusome, so this novel may not be for the squimish. Remember this  is based on true facts which also makes it pretty scary in the more violent  scenes. I strongly recommend!	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R24FXQGP6B5M1G	0312964072	179146020	Down to a Sunless Sea: A Tiller Galloway Underwater Thriller	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Feeling a Little Out of Breath	This being my first David Poyer novel, I truly did not know what the expect. I picked this book up because I am a fan of Benchley and Alten who both write thrillers about the deep. The first thing I found refreshing was  that Poyer did not go to deep in past Tiller Galloway stories. You can pick  this book up and not feel that you are missing anything.<br />The wonderful  thing about this book about cave divers, is Poyer's ability to make you  feel &quot;closed in&quot; almost out of breath, during the cave diving  scenes. I enjoyed most of the characters including Galloway's son, and  group of friends. <br />The ending is somewhat dissapointing. It is exciting,  but it gets a little too far fetched at times. I do recommend this book,  despite the ending and it's shortcomings.	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R1TXKL8NDXC4PB	0399145672	857420607	Big Trouble	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One Word &quot;Funny&quot;	This being Dave Barry's first shot at fiction, I was very surprised at the outcome. Even though it is modeled after a Carl Hiaasen novel, it is almost up to par with Hiaasen's best. This wacky-Florida novel groups a cast of  characters, whose strangness, simpleness and quirkeness show that Barry can  do fiction.<br />The plot has a few holes, but Barry makes up with it with  great character presentation. This is a must read for those who love this  genre, and for those who love Dave Barry. Don't let the fact that it is  fiction scare you away from reading one of America's top humorist.<br />The  book is not for younger readers. The language is a bit rough, and Barry  mentions this in the onset of the book. There is a lot of adolscent humor  which may un-nerve a few readers. If you don't like books were people wet  their pants stay away. If you do want a laugh a page quick read pick this  up right away	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R3ZZ9FGEP8D09	0786860472	31576209	Suitable for Framing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nice Read!	Since I am a fan of the Miami-crazies genre, I had to try Edna Buchannan. Buchannan does get away from the nuttiness that is in Hiaasen and Leonard novels, but does show the true grit of Miami. Britt Montero is a most  likeable character as a reporter on the crime beat. The story centers  around a rash of car-jackings and a soon to be rival up and coming reporter  after Britt's job. The two stories balance together well and fouund myself  staying up late to finish it on a work night. You can easily find yourself  rooting hard for Britt and the other good guys. One nice touch Buchannan  adds is a tender side, in the story with the gang character and the  Margaret Mayberry charatcer. <br />The reason this novel falls to four stars  is the typical &quot;let's make the main character perfect&quot; syndrome.  Britt is almost to perfect,works hard, in great shape, nice home. Edna give  us at least one little thing that makes her more human. In total I am  looking forward to others and strongly suggest this one.	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R2Z8O4WAERJ9BH	067086871X	582723746	The Bone Collector (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Truly Scary	This is by far the best of Deaver. The story will grab hold of you any will not let go till the end. Deaver is proving that he is the best in this genre. As the chapters fly by, the reader will find himself scared silly.<br />Characters Lincoln Rhyme and Amelia Sachs are set off just a touch, to  make them believable. You can really feel the tension and the respect  between them. The killer is written so dark, you truly get the taste of his  evilness.<br />The book has it's typical surprise endings, but there is more  than one!  The movie which I saw does a fairly good recount, but I suggest  (as always) read the book first.	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R25TYLMGY7GYEQ	0553560204	54491990	The Lesson of Her Death	Books	3	33	36	N	N	Very Entertaining	This is far from being Jeffery Deaver's best novel but it is a srong tale. Deaver has the ability to make strong likeable characters among the most devilish and harrowing times. <br />The story revolves around the murder of  Co-ed. The long list of suspects from ex-boyfriends, college professors and  a teenage trouble-maker keep the reader guessing till the end. Even the  investigator's family slowly starts to crumble from the events.<br />The story  line of the daughter who may be gifted is a gripping side, to which the  Father ignores looking for the main killer. <br />Deaver has abilities to show  the world of people with handicaps. He also will leave the reader holding  their breath till the outcome. The book does tend to get a little long and  action does slow down in the middle. Some of the violence is not for  everybody. The three stars comes based on the fact that Deaver does have  other books that are more well rounded. This is a strong read for any  forensic criminal investagation novel fans.	2000-01-15
US	50277793	R336KCAMXRJ6DW	044023560X	367474832	Rude Behavior	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Rude Behavior- Yes it is!	If you are not a Dan Jenkins fan or strongly oppose &quot;Archie Bunker&quot; bigotry, this novel may not be for you. Jenkins does however weave an interesting tale of the NFL. Far fetched at times very funny at  others Jenkins will leave the reader and avid football fan scratching his  head, wondering if this is how the NFL is run. <br />The novel is a bit  lengthy and is slow at the beginning. However Jenkins mixes football (both  fictional and historical) with  hollywood, social issues and political  correctivness. Bring back the cast from &quot;Semi-Tough&quot; was great  for the reader, but might of lost the new reader. <br />The book is not quite  as funny as &quot;You Got To Play Hurt&quot;, which would be a better buy  for the new Jenkins reader. However if you like Dan Jenkins, football and  aren't easily offended this one is a must read.	2000-01-12
US	50277793	R27U1V5YKU5B2W	0451197054	264891459	Secret Weekend	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Secret Weekend Should of Stayed a Secret	The term &quot;what might of been&quot; is the best way to describe this poor Thom Racina novel. Racina gives it a valiant effort, however the whole story is just to hard to believe. All the characters are shallow and  unlikeable. The turn of events revolving around why this stalker is  obsessed with Audrey Goh, go from strange to almost laughable. The chain of  events and leaps of fate made me feel like I was watching some poor  thriller movie. This is why I read books, we have seen this story too many  times in the theaters. <br />I strongly suggest picking up one of Racina's  other novels. As for a sequel to this just let it rest Thom.	2000-01-12
US	50277793	RE5R1ZGTLGGXS	0425171191	619042120	Run Time	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Run Time Worth the Time	Ok, I was stumbling around my local bookstore in search of something new. I found Run Time read the back cover and decided I would give Chris Niles a try.<br />In total the story is about a vacation gone bad. From the word go  the main character shacks up with a lovely lady he meets on the plane. From  there it is all downhill. The book is bumpy in parts, but the characters  are well written and likeable (even the bad guys). The ending is a little  tough to swallow.There is not much information on Chris Nyles. There is  something very British about this novel.If you are looking for a quick read  on vacation this one is. Will check out other books by Niles and see were  she takes it.	2000-01-12
US	50277793	R1MLSWV7CPD0R7	0380792737	416150558	Island of the Sequined Love Nun	Books	5	8	9	N	N	More Moore	I got hooked on Christopher Moore novels about a year ago and have read all five of his books. By far &quot;Love Nun&quot; is his best. Moore's ability to write characters that jump from the page is amazing. From the  fruit bat Roberto to the Ninja guards I found Moore's mind to capture all  traits needed to earn a five star from me.<br />The story is a modern day  Moses tale, with a somewhat loser Moses, set in Micronesia. A story that  dives into religion, politcs, the mob, history and the make-up industry.  The story keep me intrigued and the laughs kept on coming. All of Moore's  books are good, but if you have to pick one to read on a island, with a  bunch of cannibals in the jungle pick this one.	2000-01-12
US	50277793	R2USHSI1H7993H	0385489056	69307456	Meg	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Alten will get better.	Steve Alten's first book is everything you would expect. The total premise of this book is good for a laugh, and I only purchased it off the bargin table. <br />The idea of a prehistoric 70 foot white shark is intersting. It  is a very quick read with likeable characters like Jonas Taylor. The action  is a bit choppy like the ocean it is set in, but once the reader gets going  it does show some flow. This book is not for those who have nightmare about  the deep, or those who don't like a lot of blood. <br />I enjoyed the book  until the ending which was a cross between Fairy Tale and Jurassic Park,  But then we are dealing with a prehistoric shark so let your imagination  take over when reading the last 30 pages.<br />Alten's no Benchley but give  him some time and see what &quot;The Trench has to offer.	2000-01-12
