US	50276218	R245FEUBAF1AOO	0761546790	727669562	Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 3 (Prima Official Game Guide)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	a complete waste of money	The guide provides a very brief, uninformative overview of the different game modes, an incomplete list of individual character moves, and a compendium of the capsules available that only vaguely points to how they can be obtained.<br /><br />Many questions that people will have about the game go completely ignored, such as:<br /><br />- how to specifically unlock various characters, locations, and the dragon arena mode<br /><br />- how the character stats function and how points added to a stat affect performance<br /><br />- how to perform certain moves and techniques like fusion<br /><br />- where to find the dragon balls, money, capsules, and events in Dragon Universe mode<br /><br />This book should not be considered a \\"game guide\\", but rather a limited overview. Save your money and do a search for tips and guides on the internet instead.	2005-02-21
US	50276218	R3A7OV8QO5927H	1594860009	859027556	The New High Intensity Training: The Best Muscle-Building System You've Never Tried	Books	5	10	17	N	N	The best new strength training book on the market	I currently have somewhere in the neighborhood of 100 to 120 books on the subject of exercise, and this is the best I've read in a long time.<br /><br />Those of you who are new to high intensity strength training will learn the scientific principles behind the method, beginner, intermediate and advanced routines, advanced high intensity training techniques, and how to put it all together into a program that will pack on muscle.<br /><br />Those of you who are already familiar with high intensity strength training will enjoy the many interesting stories Dr. Darden shares about Arthur Jones, Mike and Ray Mentzer, Casey Viator, Sergio Oliva, Arnold Schwarzeneggar and others from the early days at Nautilus and the bodybuilding scene during the 60's and 70's.<br /><br />The New High Intensity Training should be in the library of every serious bodybuilder.	2004-09-30
US	50276218	R2UTXGN2BYN0GN	0879759097	255396647	The Vitamin Pushers (Consumer Health Library)	Books	5	22	35	N	N	Sensible information that is all too rare these days	This book debunks a lot of popular myths and misconceptions regarding fad diets, supplements and related quackery, and provides sensible information on nutrition. As a personal trainer, this information has been of trementous value to me for helping my clients avoid being suckered into wasting money on worthless diet supplements and compromising their health with unbalanced fad diets.<br />I'm not surprised that a lot of people have given the book very poor reviews. A lot of people stand to lose a lot of money if the public becomes educated about such things, and it is natural that they would become defensive and hostile towards something that threatens their livelihood or beliefs. However, ignore the bad reviews, and buy this book. Better yet, buy two copies, because you'll find yourself lending it out often.	2004-06-07
US	50276218	R12IY4BKZJP0U	0071423958	737382125	Max Contraction Training : The Scientifically Proven Program for Building Muscle Mass in Minimum Time	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Effective application of high intensity training	Although I have been critical of claims regarding the importance of the position of full muscular contraction in the past, primarily since I disagree with some of Arthur Jones' original arguments regarding the subject, recent information points to the position of full muscular contraction as being far more important for the purpose of stimulating the best possible gains in muscle mass than we may have previously suspected. If this is the case, then Max Contraction training is one of the best applications of this information that I am aware of.<br /><br />Well worth checking out.	2004-06-03
US	50276218	R14Y5N5LBD3KAU	0071383301	648090792	High-Intensity Training the Mike Mentzer Way	Books	5	91	98	N	N	The only valid theory of productive exercise	I was first introduced to the concept of high intensity training by Mike's articles in Iron Man magazine in the early 90's. For the first time ever, I began to see consistent, noticable improvements on a workout to workout basis, initially gaining over 25 pounds of muscle over a period of only a few months. I eventually became certified as a personal trainer by the SuperSlow Exercise Guild, who also advocate a high intensity training (HIT) protocol similar to Mike's, the only major difference being the use of a slower rep cadence which provides for a lower risk of injuries. Having trained hundreds of clients using HIT since 1994, I can say with absolute confidence that it is by far the safest, most productive, and most time efficient way to train. Whatever is in second place is so far behind as to not even be in the running.<br />HIT is not, as some reviewers have erroneously stated, conducive to injuries, so long as the exercises are performed properly - that is, using strict form and a smooth, controlled speed of movement. Lift the weights slowly and under strict control, and reverse direction smoothly, rather than simply swinging, bouncing or throwing them up and then allowing them to drop the way most people do in the gym. It isn't the amount of weight that causes injuries, but the manner in which one attempts to lift it. HIT is perfectly safe if the exercises are performed properly. Mike addresses this issue in the book.<br />HIT does happen to be the \\"be all, end all\\" of exercise. There can only be one best, one most efficient, one most effective means of accomplishing a particular goal, and where exercise is concerned, this is it. The principles of productive exercise are the same for all of us, it is merely the specifics that must be adjusted for individual differences, which is accounted for in HIT theory, and in Mike's books. Even if another training method produced similar results, if it required you to spend a greater amount of time in the gym it could still not be considered equal, since the return on investment would be lower. For those who's social lives revolve around the gym or who are stuck in their ways, this may take some getting used to. Personally, I'd rather spend only as much time in the gym as necessary to get the best results. The purpose of exercise is to improve the quality of your life, and NOT to be the center of it.<br />Get in the gym, train hard, then get out and enjoy your life.<br />This is the most thorough of all of Mike's books. It covers all of the principles of his Heavy Duty high intensity training system in detail, and provides routines and explanations of the performance of various exercises. There is a section with information specifically written for the competitive bodybuilder on peaking, definition and posing. Mike also discusses his views on motivation in the gym, which I believe many will benefit from.till not be considered equal, since the return on investment would be lower. For those who's social lives revolve around the gym or who are stuck in their ways, this may take some getting used to. Personally, I'd rather spend only as much time in the gym as necessary to get the best results. The purpose of exercise is to improve the quality of your life, and NOT to be the center of it.<br />Get in the gym, train hard, then get out and enjoy your life.<br />This is the most thorough of all of Mike's books. It covers all of the principles of his Heavy Duty high intensity training system in detail, and provides routines and explanations of the performance of various exercises. There is a section with information specifically written for the competitive bodybuilder on peaking, definition and posing. Mike also discusses his views on motivation in the gym, which I believe many will benefit from.	2004-05-16
US	50276218	R3OKLQ3UW9WTID	B00009KH2Y	334502784	Secrets Of Silat : Knife Fighting Techniques Of Silat And Kuntao	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Effective, but overkill for civilian self defense purposes.	What Steve Gartin teaches in this video is effective, but goes way past what is necessary for self-defense. If you're looking to learn a little about the Silat and Kuntao approaches to using a knife, this is a good video, but if you're looking for practical self defense, please consider that in the eyes of the law, the things in this video are total overkill. The most important thing in a self defense situation is to stop the attack, and remove yourself from the situation. However, most of the techniques shown go way beyond stopping the attack, to the point of manslaughter.<br />The material is effective, but you have to know when to stop so that you don't go from being the defender to the aggressor, or you may find yourself in prison.	2004-01-19
US	50276218	R2D2NZVLSTVHI0	1556432534	480102061	The Power of Internal Martial Arts: Combat Secrets of Ba Gua, Tai Chi, and Hsing-I	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Long on mysticism, short on "combat secrets"	I received this book as a gift, and not being a believer in mystical notions of chi, found it to be amusing, but not very informative so far as practical concepts and principles are concerned. If you buy into the whole chi thing, you'd probably enjoy this book. If you're looking for a book about real-world, practical application of these arts, this is not it.	2004-01-14
US	50276218	R1TWN8CBVDHU30	006052409X	193263222	SOAR: A Black Ops Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Highly suspenseful and entertaining from start to finish	I've been looking forward to more like this from John Weisman since the last Rogue Warrior novel he penned, Detachment Bravo, and SOAR was even better than I had expected.<br />I can't tell you anything about the story without ruining a few surprises, so I won't, but if you enjoy spec ops books like the Rogue Warrior series or Andy McNab's Nick Stone novels, you will love this. Highly suspenseful and entertaining from start to finish, you will have a very hard time putting it down. If you have to get up early for work, don't start reading it at night because you won't get to sleep on time.	2003-08-28
US	50276218	R3VKNM51CSVU44	1880336596	1396625	Solo Training: The Martial Artist's Guide to Training Alone	Books	5	65	69	N	Y	repetition is the mother of skill	There is no secret to skill in the martial arts. If you want to get better at something, you have to spend time practicing it. In Solo Training, Loren Christensen provides literally hundreds of solo drills and routines for practicing a wide variety of martial arts skills and developing the physical and mental attributes necessary to apply them effectively when it counts.<br />Although many martial artists may be familiar with a large number of the drills and exercises in the book, I believe that everybody will find dozens of new ways to improve their solo training among the hundreds covered, or ways to make their solo training more interesting.<br />If you're not doing extra training on your own outside of your classes, you should be - you lazy slacker. This book will help to get you started, and keep you motivated. Other books by Loren Christensen you should check out are The Fighter's Fact Book and The Way Alone.	2003-06-04
US	50276218	RS2CFPEX2V5DQ	0865682070	539451394	The Naked Edge: The Complete Guide to Edged Weapons Defense (Elite Professional Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A practical and effective guide to edged weapons defense	In The Naked Edge, professional law enforcement trainer and martial artist Steve Tarani provides clear and detailed explanation of the fundamentals of unarmed defense against a knife assault. The emphasis throughout the book is on avoiding or controlling what is referred to as \\"the contact connection\\", the connection of your attacker to his knife and his knife to any part of your body. Simple and effective tactics and techniques are presented for dealing with attacks starting in non-contact range, contact range, and extreme close quarters, along with drills to practice them shown step by step with easy-to-follow photographs and instructions.<br />Part 1, Fundamentals of Edged Weapons Defense Technology, presents an overview of the history of the knife and covers a variety of subjects including the importance of edged weapons training, how to choose a knife and training knives, the anatomy of attack and defense, carry and deployment, and a variety of grips and common attacks. Most importantly, part 1 covers a variety of defensive movements and postures using gross motor skills and based on natural movements, used to move you off the line of attack while covering your vitals.<br />Everything presented is highly practical and with enough practice can be performed successfully against an attack performed at full speed and with intent. As a test, I convinced a notoriously uncoordinated friend to practice moving off the line of attack and performing the QuickShield™ position to cover his vitals as shown in the book. After about half an hour performing the first few drills he was able to consistently evade 1/2 speed attacks on the low line from non-contact position - the distance at which with both of our arms extended we could not touch each other. A person with average or better agility should be able to successfully defend against full speed attacks at that range with consistent practice.<br />Part 2, Defending Against Non-Contact and Contact Range Attacks, covers ways of moving off of the line of attack and out to a safe distance against attacks from non-contact range, and defenses against both low-line and high-line attacks at contact range - the distance at which with both people's arms extended they can touch wrist to wrist. These defenses include methods of breaking and clearing - stepping off the line of attack while shielding the vitals using the QuickShield™ position then pushing the attacker's knife arm down and away or transitioning into elbow controls, primarily the arm bar and figure-four arm lock. Again, our uncoordinated test subject was able to make these work against me attacking at about 1/2 speed with a little bit of practice and coaching, and I am able to make them work against him despite a weight disadvantage of over 80 lbs. All of it practical, effective stuff that can be made to work well with consistent practice.<br />Part 3, Defense and Disarming at Extreme Close Quarters, covers footwork, controls and disarms for situations where one has to defend against an attacker only an arm's length away, such as when one is up against a rear obstacle and unable to move back away off the line of attack and the only way out is to go past the attacker. The emphasis here is still on avoiding the contact connection and getting away, and it is stressed that disarms should only be attempted if there are absolutely no other options. A few basic strip and takeaway disarms are covered against both forward and reverse-grip attacks. As with everything else, these are all demonstrated with step-by-step photos and instructions, and are simple and practical techniques. Simple, however, does not mean easy. Like everything else, you have to spend time practicing them to expect them to work when it counts.<br />Overall, The Naked Edge is one of the best books I've read on the subject of dealing with knife attacks, and I highly recommend it.of moving off of the line of attack and out to a safe distance against attacks from non-contact range, and defenses against both low-line and high-line attacks at contact range - the distance at which with both people's arms extended they can touch wrist to wrist. These defenses include methods of breaking and clearing - stepping off the line of attack while shielding the vitals using the QuickShield™ position then pushing the attacker's knife arm down and away or transitioning into elbow controls, primarily the arm bar and figure-four arm lock. Again, our uncoordinated test subject was able to make these work against me attacking at about 1/2 speed with a little bit of practice and coaching, and I am able to make them work against him despite a weight disadvantage of over 80 lbs. All of it practical, effective stuff that can be made to work well with consistent practice.<br />Part 3, Defense and Disarming at Extreme Close Quarters, covers footwork, controls and disarms for situations where one has to defend against an attacker only an arm's length away, such as when one is up against a rear obstacle and unable to move back away off the line of attack and the only way out is to go past the attacker. The emphasis here is still on avoiding the contact connection and getting away, and it is stressed that disarms should only be attempted if there are absolutely no other options. A few basic strip and takeaway disarms are covered against both forward and reverse-grip attacks. As with everything else, these are all demonstrated with step-by-step photos and instructions, and are simple and practical techniques. Simple, however, does not mean easy. Like everything else, you have to spend time practicing them to expect them to work when it counts.<br />Overall, The Naked Edge is one of the best books I've read on the subject of dealing with knife attacks, and I highly recommend it.	2003-05-21
US	50276218	RBRIUVNXM5AFZ	0804817197	994895464	Wing Chun Kung-fu Volume 2: Fighting & Grappling (Chinese Martial Arts Library)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	simplistic and poorly illustrated	I agree with the other 1 star reviewer in that this book very poorly illustrates proper technique and is very, very basic. Fortunately, I read it at the book store and therefore did not waste any money.<br />When I found the book on Amazon while searching for other Wing Chun books, I was very surprised to see such good reviews for it. Of course, it could just be the author or friends of the author ;)<br />Especially watch out for anybody who tries to tell you you can learn the martial arts from a book - you can not. You can learn about it, but without qualified instruction, you can't learn how to do it.	2003-04-30
US	50276218	RUKUQKKPHZF2M	0865680450	796742046	Wing Chun Bil Jee: The Deadly Art of Thrusting Fingers	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Good reference on the Bil Jee form of Wing Chun	I am primarily a Jun Fan / Jeet Kune Do practicioner, but am interested in learning more of Wing Chun so I have also been studying original Wing Chun, and William Cheung's books were recommended to me as references for the forms, and they are excellent for that purpose.<br />If you are studying Wing Chun, Cheungs books are good references. Even better, though, is to videotape someone with good form performing the forms, once from the front and once from the side and practice with those.<br />Although the reviewer &quot;Jonathus&quot; is correct that most fights are short and won with good basics, the rest of his comments would indicate that he does not have enough of an understanding of Wing Chun to &quot;get&quot; some of the photo sequences in the book. His statement that &quot;one does not attack by pointing his fingers at an opponent and hopping on one leg towards his target&quot; is correct, but if he understood what is depicted in that particular photo sequence or had been taught the movement, he would realize that that is not what is happening. The movement is an entry meant to draw a reaction to gain an attachment from which to trap and attack or open a line of attack.	2003-04-26
US	50276218	R3RJC5ZIMYKUAP	1581603207	643523478	Muay Thai Kickboxing: The Ultimate Guide To Conditioning, Training, And Fighting	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Great book on Thai boxing	If you're already a student of Muay Thai under a qualified instructor there's not much here that's going to be new to you, but it is a great reference and contains quite a few good drills, which are nice to know since the more drills you have the more you can vary your training and keep it from getting too monotonous :)<br />If you are interested in learning Muay Thai you're not going to learn it from a book, you need qualified instruction, but this book is a great introduction to the art and will give you a good idea what it's about.	2003-04-26
US	50276218	R2K1YP5HNURTYE	0953176665	535892810	Jeet Kune Do: Hardcore Training & Strategies Guide	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	good collection of training drills and strategies	The book has a good collection of drills for improving one's sensetivity and trapping range skills, as well as sections on strategies for dealing with a few general categories of fighters; boxers, kickboxers, grapplers and &quot;street fighters&quot;.<br />Although anybody interested in Jun Fan Gung Fu or Jeet Kune Do would probably enjoy this book and learn from it, I'm doubtful that someone who hasn't studied Jun Fan or Wing Chun under a qualified instructor will be able to follow what's going on in the energy and trapping drills. Although the photographs are very well done, and other than a few minor typographical errors, the descriptions are clear to me, I've shown the book to friends who've had no instruction in Jun Fan or Wing Chun and they weren't able to figure out how perform the drills properly from the book.<br />If you already know Wing Chun or Jun Fan, the drills are helpful, but if you don't, you're not going to learn trapping from them. It is also important to note for those w/o training that these are meant as drills and not techniques. I suggest finding a qualified Jun Fan or Wing Chun instructor (there is a directory of certified Jun Fan/JKD instructors at Dan Inosanto's web site) and then get this book after you've learned some trapping and the ping chuei gua chuie and 1-2 and 1-3 series. You'll get a lot more out of it then.<br />The book also contains a section on the Jun Fan wooden dummy form, but like the trapping drills, unless you already have the training, you may have a difficult time figuring how he's moving between the photographs.<br />Like all of Larry Hartsell's other books, this one is a must for any Jun Fan/JKD student's library, but it might be a bit hard for the untrained to get what's going on. If you're really interested though, go find a teacher :)	2003-04-22
US	50276218	R11NHG7WZJSKQV	0967015510	902993964	Jeet Kune Do, a New Era	Books	1	2	3	N	N	NOT Jeet Kune Do, and not worth your money.	After browsing this book AGAIN at the local MA store, I am only further convinced that all of the good reviews of it here are by friends of the author trying to help him out. It is not about Jeet Kune Do, it is a collection of poorly presented grappling techniques that appear to come primarily from BJJ.<br />Like another reviewer said, the author mentions no certifications or instructorship under any recognized JKD instructor. Also, like the other reviewer said, \\"studying\\" someone is hardly the same as studying WITH someone. I challenge the author to provide proof of instructor certification in JKD. Without that, the author has no business claiming to be writing about Jeet Kune Do.<br />The author seems to just be using the name Jeet Kune Do to promote his book. Obviously, if it just had a title like \\"Ground Fighting\\" or \\"Ground Fighting Techniques and Counters\\" or \\"Practical Ground Fighting Skills for the Street\\", then it would not stand out among the many grappling and ground fighting books available by recognized grappling experts such as the Machados and Gracies and a true Jeet Kune Do instructor and grappling expert, Larry Hartsell.<br />If you're interested in learning more about Jeet Kune Do, my first recommendation is to search for a qualified instructor. There is a directory of certified instructors at Dan Inosanto's web site. For those who don't know, Dan Inosanto was Bruce Lee's long time friend and student, and one of only three people who Bruce certified to teach Jun Fan Gung Fu and Jeet Kune Do (the others being Taky Kimura and the late James Lee). Most of the other original Chinatown school students like Larry Hartsell continued to train with Dan Inosanto after Bruce's death.<br />There is absolutely nothing that can take the place of learning firsthand from a qualified instructor. This is not to say that books and videos aren't helpful, as they can serve as useful study guides and sometimes help us to understand certain aspects of an art or fill in the holes in the notebooks of those of us who don't keep very good class notes (if you don't keep a training journal, start now!). Having said that, my second recommendation is to read all of the books on JKD by Chris Kent, Tim Tackett, Larry Hartsell, John Little, Ron Balicki and the excellent book on Jun Fan by Kevin R. Seaman, and if you can find them, Dan Inosanto. The book Jeet Kune Do Conversations by Jose Fraguas is also excellent.<br />If you are interested in grappling books, then I would recommend Larry Hartsell's JKD books and Marc MacYoung's \\"Floor Fighting\\", as well as The Fighter's Notebook.<br />I do not, however, recommend spending your money on this book, as it is not JKD, and it is not a very good grappling book either. If you are still considering it because of all the 5 star reviews (which I suspect were posted by friends of the author), I suggest browsing it first at your local martial arts store if they bothered to stock it. I'm glad I did, as it saved me from wasting my money on it.he holes in the notebooks of those of us who don't keep very good class notes (if you don't keep a training journal, start now!). Having said that, my second recommendation is to read all of the books on JKD by Chris Kent, Tim Tackett, Larry Hartsell, John Little, Ron Balicki and the excellent book on Jun Fan by Kevin R. Seaman, and if you can find them, Dan Inosanto. The book Jeet Kune Do Conversations by Jose Fraguas is also excellent.<br />If you are interested in grappling books, then I would recommend Larry Hartsell's JKD books and Marc MacYoung's \\"Floor Fighting\\", as well as The Fighter's Notebook.<br />I do not, however, recommend spending your money on this book, as it is not JKD, and it is not a very good grappling book either. If you are still considering it because of all the 5 star reviews (which I suspect were posted by friends of the author), I suggest browsing it first at your local martial arts store if they bothered to stock it. I'm glad I did, as it saved me from wasting my money on it.	2003-04-18
US	50276218	RF8WOEHPNH1FQ	0953176622	942566887	Jun Fan Gung Fu: Seeking the Path of Jeet Kune Do	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent addition to any serious martial artist's library	This book is an excellent overview of the basics of Jun Fan Gung Fu, the Gung Fu system developed by the late Bruce Lee, using the concepts and principles of Jeet Kune Do. It is very well organized and well written and everything is very clearly explained and illustrated.<br />One thing in particular that I really like about this book is that the first two chapters cover Jun Fan's footwork (as in stance, mobility, etc., not kicking), the foundation upon which everything else is built, which makes it an excellent companion to Chris Kent and Tim Tackett's books &quot;Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing&quot; and &quot;Jun Fan / Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook&quot; which are also very good, but do not cover stance or footwork very well.<br />Excellent study guide for any Jun Fan / JKD student.	2003-04-18
US	50276218	R1CFJYHN8DU98L	0865681910	887371383	Jeet Kune Do Conversations	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly enlightening and enjoyable reading	The interview with Chris Kent alone is worth the price of the book. I've only just bought the book, and have just read that chapter today, and I will most likely finish the rest of it by the end of tomorrow. I highly recommend this book, specifically the Chris Kent interview, to anyone who wants to improve their understanding of Jeet Kune Do.	2003-04-17
US	50276218	R2ZVAAH2X2G28B	0865681317	212153407	Jun Fan/Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An absolute must read for any serious Jun Fan / JKD student	Chris Kent and Tim Tackett do an excellent job of presenting the basics of Jun Fan Gung Fu and Jeet Kune Do concepts as well as a variety of useful drills. I highly recommend this book to any JF/JKD student. My only complaint is that there wasn't much about stance or footwork, which are the basis for everything else. In their book Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing they cover bai jong, the basic stance, for about a page and a half, but you could probably write an entire volume on the stance and footwork alone. If you're studying under a qualified Jun Fan / JKD instructor you'll know all of this, but it would still be nice to have a reference on it, and I'm sure that Sifus Kent and Tackett could probably offer quite a bit of insight into what is, IMO, an incredibly important, if basic subject.	2003-04-16
US	50276218	RKE6L56YWWISQ	0938676083	717567554	Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good basic overview of Jun Fan Gung Fu's basic striking	Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing is a good overview of the basics of Jun Fan Gung Fu in the kicking and punching range. If you're already a Jun Fan / JKD student under a qualified instructor you probably won't get anything really new out of this, but it is a good reference for those of us who aren't good about taking notes. My only complaint is that the basic stance and footwork are only given about a page and a half, and IMO, those are two of the absolute most important things as they are the foundation for everything else. If you don't have a good stance and good footwork, everything else falls apart.	2003-04-16
US	50276218	R1LGYNZXOWC3N0	1884654096	327127376	Boxer's Start-Up: A Beginner's Guide to Boxing (Start-Up Sports series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	great book on the basics	This is a great book for anyone interested in learning to box, as well as for martial artists interested in more practical striking and footwork.<br />If you're serious about learning to do it right though, find a qualified trainer. Books are great supplements to qualified instruction, but even well written ones like this can never replace it.	2003-01-02
US	50276218	R1GV5QRGL6S7NW	0806518731	556846403	The Invisible Ninja: Ancient Secrets of Surprise	Books	1	9	11	N	Y	Ashida Kim is totally out of touch with reality	I bought this book for one of my brothers for Christmas as a joke, and we had a lot of fun laughing at it. Ashida Kim (who's real name is Chris Hunter) seems to be lost in a 1980's ninja movie inspired fantasy world. You'd think he learned ninjutsu by watching Sho Kosugi movies.<br />Some of the \\"ancient secrets of surprise\\" in this book include tapping a sentry on the shoulder then moving in the other direction when he turns his head to look, and jumping out from behind trees and bushes. Heh heh heh.<br />If you've got money to waste and are up for some cheap laughs, then any of Ashida Kim's books will do. If, however, you are looking for books on real-world martial arts, get something else.	2003-01-02
US	50276218	RUWF6WTAGVWGO	0865681872	262381717	Anatomy of a Streetfight	Books	5	2	3	N	N	there's a big difference between self defense and sport	Seems like some of the reviewers here don't know the difference between actual self defense and sport competition. The UFC and Pride are NOT representative of the types of situations where a person would have to use physical force in self defense. If you want to learn how to fight in no holds barred competitions, then this book will probably be of very little interest to you. If you are concerned with practical self defense, then I'd recommend it over any of the BJJ books I've read.<br />Vunak covers a variety of subjects, including his RAT (Rapid Assault Tactics) approach, women's self defense, Jeet Kune Do applications for law enforcement officers, and the differences between sport fighting and self defense (which some of the other reviewers would benefit from reading), and developing \\"killer instinct\\". Various techniques are also illustrated to demonstrate the principles discussed in each chapter. Not a lot of material is covered, but the book is a good value for the price.	2003-01-02
US	50276218	R2T3R34ZQWEE2C	0743422465	797821300	Violence of Action (Rogue Warrior)	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	John Weisman, where are you?	I was surprised when I found out that there was another Rogue Warrior novel coming out, since John Weisman had replied to an e-mail I had written him, stating that he was not going to write any more novels in the series. Apparently, he had been doing the vast majority, if not all of the work on the previous novels, with Marcinko simply giving feedback and approval, which would explain why Violence of Action is so different than the rest of the series.<br />Although Violence of Action is lacking in plot intricacy and character development, it makes up for it somewhat in the action department - which is literally non-stop and definitely lives up to the book's title.<br />As for the people who complained about the torture that occurs in the book - they need to realize that there are situations where such measures, however distasteful, are absolutely necessary and justified. Especially when you're talking about millions of innocent lives. Consider the fact that the individuals being interrogated were guilty of conspiring to murder hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians for the sake of starting a race war, and that timely intelligence was essential to prevent that from happening. If you had loved ones trapped in a city about to be nuked and their lives depended on you obtaining that information as fast as possible, what would you have done? If you'd have spared a terrorist rather than try to save those people, you need to seriously examine your ethics, because frankly, they're irrational.	2002-11-22
US	50276218	R16NMGZECVLFXS	0873648897	831901730	U.S. Marines Close-quarter Combat Manual	Books	1	31	42	N	Y	Should be titled "How To Get Yourself Stabbed and Killed"	Many techniques presented in this book, particularly in the section on knives, are highly impractical. I'm a student of Inosanto-LaCoste Kali and Maphilindo Silat, have studied Pambuan Arnis Tulison Caballero under Ama Guru Rafino Pambuan, and have informal training in Pekiti Tirsia Kali, all of which are blade oriented systems, so I know more than a little bit about handling a knife, and the techniques shown against a knife in this book will get you killed.<br />I hate to disappoint those of you who hope to learn physical self defense from a book, but you can't. You can learn concepts, tactics, strategies, and techniques, but without actual self defense or martial arts instruction in person with a real teacher you're not going to really get it. After that, you can take what you learn from books to augment your training, but without actual training, they're not going to help you much. Even worse, books like this could get you killed if you were to actually attempt some of what they try to pass off as defenses against attacks with a knife.<br />Don't believe me? Try this experiment. Put on a white T shirt. Give a friend a magic marker and bet them $10 per mark that they can't mark you with it - anywhere, arms, torso, legs, face (wear protective eyewear). My money says that they mark you up, and consider that a criminal trying to cut you is most likely far more motivated and far more aggressive.<br />For a book with a more practical, realistic perspective on self defense situations involving knives, I suggest reading \\"Knives, Knife Fighting, and Related Hassles\\" by Marc MacYoung. His other books on various aspects of self defense are also excellent reads.	2002-05-25
US	50276218	R3KO3Q4CCIO602	0873648927	653623782	Indonesian Fighting Fundamentals: The Brutal Arts Of The Archipelago	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	one of the best martial arts books I've ever read	The book does an excellent job of teaching several important fundamental principles of Silat and Kuntao and using techniques to demonstrate how they work. Regardless of what style you study, an understanding of these principles and how to apply them will make you a more effective martial artist.<br />I also highly recommend Bob Orlando's video, &quot;Fighting Arts of Indonesia - Combat Secrets of Silat and Kuntao&quot; which makes a great companion to the book.	2002-05-25
US	50276218	R2KCQSJFZE2ASF	0760305250	68499868	Drive to Survive (Motorbooks Workshop)	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	required reading for the safety conscious	I highly recommend this book to anyone who is concerned with their personal safety. It provides practical information for dealing with various types of dangerous driving situations.<br />It is apparent though, that some reviewers who had a problem with the level of violence or risk involved in some of the tactics and maneuvers described in the book are talking from the perspective of people who haven't had to deal with much violence and have no idea what it's like to be in a life threatenning situation.<br />Just because it's outside of the scope of their experience, doesn't mean that some of us do not have to deal with situations where dealing with certain types of people very, very aggressively is not only appropriate, but often the only option. If you ever do find yourself in such a situation, the information in this book can improve your odds significantly.	2001-06-20
US	50276218	R2T8ARY4UZPQN8	0865681775	710407202	Jeet Kune Do:  A to Z, Volume 1	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a useful reference	Most of the information is already covered in Chris Kent and Tim Tackett's other excellent books, \\"Jun Fan / Jeet Kune Do: The Textbook\\" and \\"Jeet Kune Do Kickboxing\\", however this is a very useful reference of tools, concepts and tactics, and a nice addition to any serious JKD student's library	2001-01-10
US	50276218	R36AHR4O3OCKH3	0967015510	902993964	Jeet Kune Do, a New Era	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Don't waste your money	I studied Jeet Kune Do and Jun Fan under Sifu Floyd Jackson, an instructor under Dan Inosanto, and have attended seminars by Dan Inosanto, so I have firsthand experience, and this book is crap. I usually buy every Jeet Kune Do related book I find, but after going through it at our local martial arts supply store I decided it would be an embarrasment to have on my bookshelf.	2000-09-30
