US	50286611	R34XSDHNM3NC71	1573222038	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	6	7	N	N	21st Century Dickens	Right from an early reference to Oliver Twist it's clear that this is indeed Dickens updated for a new century. The squalor of Victorian England is vividly portrayed here, but Waters' page turner of a plot takes us further, to the dirty corners of society even Dickens didn't dare to investigate - lunatic asylums and pornographers' libraries. The setting convinces and the themes of greed, betrayal and love are ably handled. Pigeonholers could call this a 'lesbian novel' - again a theme unexplored by Dickens - but *Fingersmith* is much more than this, and anyone who likes reading should try it.	2002-07-17
US	50286611	R1V59CO9U061QI	0345430794	863349997	Manifold: Origin	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Canibals in spaaaace!	This is an extended meditation on the Fermi paradox, the idea that if intelligent life existed elsewhere in the universe we should already have encountered it. Baxter's solution to the paradox is to suggest that our close hominid relatives - Neanderthals, homo erectus etc are the intelligent neighbours we never noticed. However, don't let this philosophical musing put you off. The novel is a cracking good thriller, often dark and violent, sometimes tender and humane. The earth's moon is suddenly replaced by a mysterious new one. Malenfant's wife is marooned there so he sets off on a mission to rescue her. On the way he learns the secret of the red moon and of the evolutionary tinkering it represents.<br />This is the first Stephen Baxter book I've read. Although it is at the end of a trilogy of novels I didn't feel as though I'd missed anything by not having read the other two first.<BR>Baxter is sometimes mentioned in relation to 'hard science fiction', a phrase that puts me off. If you are similarly affected by the threat of too much physics and not enough story, do not be put off reading 'Origin'. It is an intelligent, easy read, with plenty of plot, enough characterisation to keep readers happy, and really not that many complicated spaceships.	2002-04-02
US	50286611	R20B3LGGZCR0Y3	0375413839	22904795	The Rotters' Club	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Back to school	This is a comic but serious novel about the pain and joy of growing up and surviving school. Ben Trotter (aka Bent Rotter) negotiates his way through the minefield of adolescence, while trying to keep his oh so sensitive soul intact against all the odds.<br />I went to a school very much like the one Jonathan Coe describes, and reading the novel took me right back there - the angst, the cruelty, the stupid rules, the winter of discontent, the sudden death of prog rock, the friendships, the rainswept summer holidays, the girlfriends. The book is set in 1970s Birmingham, and Coe does a good job of evoking the sheer strangeness of the period. To be taken back there, pre-Thatcher,when unions had some power, and 'socialism' still meant something, is to realise just how much has changed, how British society is so shaped by the era but could never ever go back to it. Althought there is politics here, this is not primarily a political novel. Rather its great idea is the possibility that there are moments in time, instants in our lives, that 'are worth worlds' - moments that make life worthwhile, moments that we wish could go on forever. The characters' experiences of such moments are ultimately what drive the novel forward.<br />There were times when I laughed out loud, and many more times when I smiled in recognition. If I have one complaint it is that this is the first part of a two-novel sequence and I can't wait for the sequel.	2002-04-02
US	50286611	R378JG8C5DHCKB	0312961006	653774129	The Trickster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Horror in the Canadian Rockies	I don't often read horror novels, but I was attracted to this by the fact it's written by Muriel Gray, a well-known Scottish TV presenter. I was surprised at first, because to my mind it read very much like a Stephen King novel (but clearly not all the reviewers here agree with that - judge for yourself). After getting over that I found it a very enjoyable read, at times terrifying! I've visited the area the novel is set and it was quite evocative of place and atmosphere. I thought her characterisation of Sam Hunt was quite believable, although I'd like to know what aboriginal Canadians would think of it. As others have noted, the book has some of the errors of a first time novelist, but this only increases my anticipation of her next novel.	2001-12-31
US	50286611	R2NDTCSW9SCEZN	0671035703	35205496	The Way I Found Her	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mystery, romance and literary intrigue	Like Lewis Little, the hero (?) of this novel, I too spent my thirteenth  year wandering around the streets and cafes of Paris as though in a wonderland of adulthood before my time. Happily, however, I wasn't caught up in love with a Russian novelist thirty years older than me, or kidnapped by...<br />Rose Tremain has written a formidably intelligent romantic thriller, which evokes Paris perfectly, and says something important about the pain of adolescence. My favourite character is Didier the existentialist roofer. I loved his melancholy, and the way Lewis never had the heart to tell him that 'no one is an existentialist these days'.<br />I also loved the neatness of the plot, in which everything seems to foreshadow later developments. It had me staying up till the small hours, unable to put the book down.<br />I didn't care that Lewis, or the plot, are not entirely credible as 'real'. This is a novel, for heavens sake! Like the roof of the hospital chapel, where Didier accidentally killed his father,  this book is a fantastic construction, to marvel at, not to pull apart.	2001-07-30
US	50286611	R2B0GWQFI223PB	0684852217	55789944	Close Range: Wyoming Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Breathtaking 'anti-western'	This collection of Annie Proulx's short stories is so good I had to keep putting it down, bowled over by the genius of her prose and the virtuoso evocation of places and people hanging on to a bitter living way out beyond the end of their luck. For me it now replaces 'The Shipping News' as  Proulx's best work.<br />Although many of the stories are just as macabre, the characters in 'Close Range' have far less of a sense of inevitability to their lives than those in 'Accordian Crimes'.  For my money the most frightening story is also the shortest in the collection, the gruesome tale of how people at the end of the earth 'make their own entertainment'. <br />My favourite story of the lot has to be 'Brokeback Mountain', which is the most poignant piece of prose I've read. However, perhaps you have to read the others first to gain this effect - as tragedy piles on tragedy, the poignancy mounts until it is almost too much to bear, but certainly too gripping to leave alone.<br />All in all this collection makes a hugely significant contribution to the genre of 'anti-western', which of course breathes new life into the 'western' myth. Proulx mythologises Wyoming even as she excoriates it. In ancient Greek tragedy, it was the gods who condemned feeble humanity to their evil fate. In 'Close Range', Proulx lets the landscape do their work for them. And unlike Greek tragedy, in 'Close Range' an intensely humane sense of humour is never far below the surface.	2001-07-30
US	50286611	R34ZVZPGL21YKC	1852305940	828050441	God, As Nature Sees God: A Christian Reading of the Tao Te Ching	Books	4	22	22	N	N	A Christian taking the Tao Te Ching seriously	Having read previous revews, let's get a couple of things straight. First, the author of this interesting book is a Christian, and makes no bones about it. Therefore it's unsurprising that his interpretation of the Tao Te Ching is a Christian interpretation. This is what he has set out to do. Second, this is an interpretation of and a commentary on the Tao Te Ching, and not on Taoism as a whole. Therefore the view of Taoism is inevitably and rightly limited. The cover says 'A Christian Reading of the Tao Te Ching' and this is exactly what the book contains. If you don't think it's legitimate for a Christian to read the Tao Te Ching, and comment on it publicly, don't buy this book.<br />Now that's out of the way, let's get on with the review. John Mabry is a Christian priest, involved with 'Creation Spirituality' magazine, who has been interested in the Tao Te Ching ever since a friend passed it to him breathlessly, with the words, 'This is the holy word of God'. Intrigued, Mabry set out to investigate. The first part of the book is Mabry's complete version of The Tao Te Ching, with rather beautiful pen and ink illustrations by Jim Hardesty. The second section is a meditation on the text, in eight chapters as follows: The nature of the tao Paradox Desire Non-Action Leadership Oneness World and Self Holiness<br />The version of the Tao Te Ching is fine as far as it goes, but it should not be mistaken for a translation. Mabry gives no information about the process of creating this part of the book, so  can only assume it is a gloss based on other English translations (although the only one mentioned is Stephen Mitchell's).<br />The second section, the commentary, is very good, and addresses some points that will clearly be important to Christian readers: 'The first question we must address is this: is the Tao God? Obviously, there is no avoiding this question. It was certainly the question most present in my mind during my initial reading of the Tao Te Ching. So. in the spirit of the Tao, I will answer: yes and no.'(p. 107)<br />Looking at the notes at the back of the book, Mabry's favourite writers seem to be Thomas Merton, Alan Watts and Matthew Fox. This should give some indication of the tenor of the commentary.<br />If you are interested in Christian interpretations of the Tao Te Ching, you could also look at Joseph Petulla's 'The Tao Te Ching and the Christian Way'.<br />To put this recent western interest in Taoism into some kind of context, try J.J. Clarke's 'The Tao of the West'.he spirit of the Tao, I will answer: yes and no.'(p. 107)<br />Looking at the notes at the back of the book, Mabry's favourite writers seem to be Thomas Merton, Alan Watts and Matthew Fox. This should give some indication of the tenor of the commentary.<br />If you are interested in Christian interpretations of the Tao Te Ching, you could also look at Joseph Petulla's 'The Tao Te Ching and the Christian Way'.<br />To put this recent western interest in Taoism into some kind of context, try J.J. Clarke's 'The Tao of the West'.	2001-07-11
US	50286611	R3CY183CXYROWY	1570752117	472609564	The Tao Te Ching and the Christian Way: A New English Version	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Christian meditations on the Tao	I think this book accomplishes what it sets out to achieve - an American Christian reading of a key text of Taoism. Having used the Tao Te Ching in morning meditation for more than a decade, the author sets out to show 'how easily it can be read as a very impressive Christian text' (p. vii).<br />The book contains a new rendition of the Tao Te Ching's 81 chapters, with each chapter followed by a brief meditation on Christian and biblical themes which relate to it. The interpretation is clearly a Christian one, and as such is helpful and illuminating. The meditations show the congruence between Christian and Taoist themes. The layout makes this book ideal as a way of using the Tao Te Ching for personal, or even public, Christian prayer, especially on a daily basis. Used as such, the Tao Te Ching would form a kind of cycle of meditation and reflection, not unlike a traditional use of the Psalms for daily worship.<br />My only qualm about this book is that the reader should be aware that this is quite far from being a translation of the Tao Te Ching. Rather, it is very much an interpretation from a Christian point of view. As such, the author minimises the potential conflicts between Christian and Taoist readings of the same text, perhaps unduly so. I think overall there is a greater engagement with Christianity than with Taoism, although this is not unreasonable, given the author's aims. The result falls just the right side of 'Taoism Lite'. For Christians who are interested in Taoism, this is a good starting point, but it should only be a starting point.<br />A similar book worth looking up is John Mabry's 'God as Nature Sees God'. This has a less useful format for prayer or meditation, but a more extensive commentary.<br />If you are interested in the ways westerners have interpreted Taoism, J.J. Clarke's 'The Tao of the West' is well worth reading.	2001-07-11
US	50286611	R206GL2C07GRJM	0380715899	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	5	17	18	N	N	a classic bildungsroman and a fantastic read	This is a classic bildungsroman - that's a German term for a novel which portrays the development of an individual character, as he or she seeks to discover meaning in life or a place in life, often in the face of an inflexible social system.<br />But this dry description does no justice whatsoever to this amazing novel of love, war and dwarves who hate typewriters.<br />In recounting the life story of Alessandro Giuliani through the tragedy of the First World War and beyond, Mark Helprin has created a masterpiece of literature, unique, immensely rich and utterly unputdownable.<br />As Alessandro journeys through the war, from Rome, to Sicily, to the Alps and deep into the Austrian Empire, he gradually discovers three things: first, it's impossible to tell what the purpose of war is. Second, Alessandro himself is not going to die, which makes the loss of those he loves even harder to bear. Third, hope is not the opposite of despair, rather it's what we make of despair in order to live our lives.<br />This is a cross between Catch-22, Captian Corelli's Mandolin and Baron Von Munchausen, and in many respects is better than them all. Alessandro finds himself in so many amazing (and often unbelievable) brushes with death that this reader lost count and simply marvelled that each episode surpasses its predecessor.<br />Yes, like any great work the book has its flaws. I think it would have benefitted from a sterner editor as it is probably a hundred pages too long. The difficulty of course would be in deciding which hundred pages to cut. Having said that, I gave a copy to my father, who is a stern critic of war novels. He was utterly gripped.<br />It is long, though. Don't expect to be able to put it down, either. This is a book you have to make space in your life for. But you won't regret it.	2001-05-31
US	50286611	R37X7REYEC7I8G	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Strange and strangely moving	This book is indicative of the paradox of Philip Dick. It shows that, for all his lapses, he was one of the great writers of the Twentieth Century. <br />Populist pulp sci-fi that meditates on Kant, Jung, Proust, Joyce and renaissance music. A classic 'thriller' plot-line that metamorphoses into something entirely other. A hero who isn't the main character of the book, and who isn't even a hero. Minor characters who appear as the fully rounded protagonists of their own worlds. Outragously dated futurism alongside spot-on perceptive prediction. Frankly poor, slapdash writing that has a uniquely moving and lasting effect on the reader.<br />Like most of Dick's writing, this is a work of flawed genius. Dick simultaneously embraces and subverts the science fiction genre to create his own unique, fractured vision of existence. In doing so he shows us that the 'final frontier' of Sci-fi is not space but the human heart.	2001-05-17
US	50286611	R2D8KBDGYKE61P	0865476101	168423336	The Other Side of Eden: Hunters, Farmers and the Shaping of the World	Books	5	25	27	N	N	In praise of the road less travelled	The road less travelled in this case is that of hunter gatherers. in a world presently dominated by agriculturalists (that's us), it's easy to overlook the lives and cultures of hunters and gatherers. When we do think of them, there's a tendency to triumphalism - a sense of inevitability about the rise of the farmers, and a sense that agriculture is simply superior.<br />Anthropologist Hugh Brody's newest book is an antidote to all that. Without sentimentalising or romanticising them, Brody describes with the utmost sensitivity the lives of the Innu and Inuit he has lived among during his significant career.<br />He challenges with fairly hard evidence the view that hunter-gatherer cultures are necessarily destined to become agricultural, and that population pressure makes this shift inevitable. He calls us to examine our prejudices - just think of how we use the terms 'civilised' and 'uncivilised' and the implications of this for the latter group.<br />His main hypothesis is that we cannot know what it is to be human unless we take seriously the 'alternative' world of hunter-gatherers. For Brody, theirs is in no sense an 'inferior' culture, but a series of cultures of infinite richness and vitality. Moreover, many of the virtues of agricultural society can be regarded as the merest vestiges of much older qualities, dependent on our hunting and gathering origins.<br />Brody's argument, the point at which he becomes polemical, is hinted at in the sub-title of the book, 'Hunters, Farmers and the Shaping of the World'. Brody holds that farmers have shaped the world we have inherited, largely at the expense of hunters, who have been disposessed, re-educated and exterminated, often 'for their own good'. While it may not be possible to turn back the clock, we can at least examine what is happening in the here and now, rather than dismissing it as the march of progress. The litany of misdeeds recorded by Brody is painful but necessary. Because the process he decries is even now continuing, Brody's book is essential reading.	2001-03-30
US	50286611	R2RSG0KYP5CRDP	1582460248	669144889	The Deep	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Makes you yearn for the ocean!	Beautiful, inviting pictures and thoroughly re-readable text, this is the story of how Alice overcomes her fear of deep water with the aid of some friendly dolphins.<br />My two year old loves having this read to her, she points to the pictures of the dreamy underwater world and squeals wth delight, 'She's swimming!!!' Older children will enjoy reading it themselves, and perhaps they will come to see that their own fears can be overcome too.	2001-03-22
US	50286611	R6HTGPV6Z6GPU	1856230031	560796839	Permaculture in a Nutshell, 3rd Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Start here for a sustainable life!	This is an informative, short and cheap general introduction to permaculture, the design of sustainable living. It has been re-issued due to popular demand. Experienced British permaculture designer and teacher Patrick Whitefield explains how permaculture can enrich our lives in the city, on the farm and in the community.<br />In brief, permaculture focuses on the conscious design of efficient ecological systems. <br />'Work = any need not met by the system.  Pollution = any output not met by the system' (p. 14)<br />So it is immediately apparent that by careful design both work and pollution can be minimised. Nature, of course, does this without having to think about it, which is why permaculture systems attempt to emulate natural processes.<br />Though this book is less than a hundred pages long, it has enough detail to get you started on some serious practical projects. The  information on 'making a mulch bed' transformed my stony, undiggable back yard into a highly productive vegetable garden in just one growing season, with very little effort (and thankfully no digging!). The book also includes plenty of contact details for taking permaculture further, which, after reading Permaculture in a Nutshell, you will be unable to resist!	2001-03-22
US	50286611	R224G57QDNT81	0446523992	866808225	A Call to Conscience: The Landmark Speeches of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic speeches from the 'Voice of the Century'	As the introduction to this book says, 'this is a unique way to read and understand history: from its primary sources.' The book is valuable, even essential, for two reasons.<br />First, the complete text of eleven of MLK's speeches is collected in one volume. Previous anthologies have offered extracts and snippets, but here we can read complete transcripts, audience participation and all:<br />'Well, I don't know what will happen now; we've got some difficult days ahead. (Amen) But it really doesn't matter with me now, because I've been to the mountaintop. (Yeah) [Applause] And I don't mind. [Applause continues]'<br />Second, each speech is introduced by significant contemporaries of King - Rosa Parks, Aretha Franklin, the Dalai Lama (like King, a Nobel Peace Prize recipient), Edward Kennedy and others. These prefaces help to set the speeches in their historical context, and to highlight the continuing importance of King's legacy.<br />As I write this review I have taken a few moments to reread King's last speech, 'I've been to the mountaintop' - Thirty three years on, it still has the power to move me to tears. As Andrew Young writes:<br />'They killed the dreamer at thirty-nine years of age, but the dream will live on into the new millennium, when men and women must still learn to resolve their problems with the force of truth, the power of love, and faith in the Spirit to lead us all into a new promised land.'	2001-03-22
US	50286611	RSZ0GA9F4JI8R	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	4	8	18	N	N	the risky ambiguity of property rights	This is an important book if it encourages economists and policy makers to look again at the resources the poor of the world already have at their disposal - far more than ever received in aid payments.<br />However there is a real problem with de Soto's insistance that formal property rights will give the poor access to their 'dead' capital. When the property rights of the poor are formalised they are usually taken away and given to the rich.  De Soto can give no guarantee that this will not happen again. In Churchill's words, the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. There is an ambiguity in de Soto's rhetoric on this point. He writes: 'In Haiti, for instance, no one believed we would find documents fixing representations of property rights. Haiti is one of the world's poorest countries; 55 per cent of the population is illiterate. Nevertheless, after an intensive survey of Haiti's urban areas, we did not find a single extralegal plot of land, shack or building whose owner did not have at least one document to defend his right - even his 'squatting rights'. (p. 167) This would be reassuring were it not a contradiction of his earlier point about Haiti and its problem of 'dead' capital; 'In Haiti... according to our surveys, 68 per cent of city-dwellers and 97 per cent of people living in the countryside live in housing to which nobody has clear legal title' (p. 26). When it suits de Soto's argument, Haitian squatters 'own' their land; when it doesn't suit him, they don't. While this ambiguity is merely problematic for de Soto's argument, one can only imagine what the eagle-eyed legal representatives of rich property developers might do with it.	2001-03-22
US	50286611	R24T5BVT12Z8LA	0786883235	988755567	Seeds From a Birch Tree: Writing Haiku and the Spiritual Journey	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A haiku a day helps you work, rest and play...	This is an excellent book - much more accessible than some other introductions to haiku. Perhaps this is because it is fairly short, but I think more due to the author's writing style. Strand weaves his way between pearls of wisdom about writing, autobiographical snippets and pointers to haiku practice with fluidity and ease. I read half of this book in the bookstore where I found it - I just couldn't put it down. In fact one of the many factors that kept me reading was the author's self-revelation. With remarkable concision he tells us a great deal about his own spiritual journey, in and out of Zen monasticism, in and out of depression, without a single word of self-indulgence. If you want to know everything there is to know about haiku, this book is only the start. But if you want to know how to merge haiku with your everyday life in a meaningful way, this book is the *best* place to start.	2001-03-14
US	50286611	R339WVG9JP74QH	0380811960	867225344	How to Talk So Kids Will Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Simply the Best Book on child-rearing	As a parent of two young children I can't recommend this book highly enough. <br />If you want to make the world a better place, buy some copies of this and give them to everyone you know who has children. But make sure you read it yourself first. This is how I first came across it, and this is what I now do, having read it.<br />You see, the problem is we're programmed to treat our children in  the ways we were treated ourselves. Often, its the negative comments that have the most impact, and these are what we repeat without noticing it. In order to learn to relate to children as human beings, we need to unlearn a lot of stuff. This book helps readers to do just that. Sometimes its difficult, because it can entail a whole new way of relating and of being. The good news is that it actually works. I have been there.<br />I would also recommend How to Talk so Kids can Learn... and Siblings without Rivalry, for the same reason: the ideas and advice in them work, and they compliment this book without duplicating it.	2001-03-14
US	50286611	R3MVKNJ23EUWFL	0851703003	788512351	The Wizard of Oz (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Rushdie at his best - an essential guide to the Wiz	The Wizard of Oz is a central piece of Twentieth Century mythmaking. It's hard to imagine the history of cinema without it. And yet I have often told people (adults, that is) it's one of my favourite films, only to be met with blank incomprehension or wry amusement. After all, what's an adult doing admiring a film so obviously aimed at children?<br />This short book by Salman Rushdie (author of Midnight's Children and The Ground Beneath Her Feet) goes a long way towards showing exactly why The Wizard of Oz is so important to our culture. I particularly liked Rushdie's analysis of Dorothy as a migrant in a strange land - the quintessential experience of so many 'new' Americans.<br />He is also excellent on the juxtaposition of colour and black &amp; white, and on the nature of good and evil in the film. There is plenty of fascinating film 'trivia' here too, enough to make this book a must for film buffs. In fact it's a paragon of film criticism. I can recommend the other books in this series from the BFI, but none are as essential as this one.	2001-03-14
US	50286611	R3EJ8UAZPE7BHG	0380799006	834404613	Siblings Without Rivalry: How to Help Your Children Live Together So You Can Live Too	Books	4	282	293	N	N	A lifesaver of a book	Contrary to what one reviewer wrote, this is not the *only* book on parenting you should read. I'd recommend Faber and Maslish's other books, How to Talk so Kids will Listen..., and How to Talk so Kids Can Learn... I give this book four stars, simply because I've given the others five stars each, and I wanted to show that you should perhaps read these books first.<br />I found this one in the library, somewhat desperate at a time when my two-year old was regularly trying to pinch and scratch my newborn baby. What to do? It felt awful. I clutched Siblings Without Rivalry to me like a lifebuoy.<br />Did it help? Emphatically, yes! There is tons of helpful material here, especially the stuff about helping children to express their feelings appropriately, and the advice to treat children uniquely rather than equally. I was worried that the authors might just rehash what they said in How to Talk so Kids Will Listen..., but they don't. The format is familiar - case studies, cartoons etc, as is the general approach to life, but the content is a real development.<br />I have to admit that some of the book is less relevant when one of the siblings in question is still a young baby. But I'm glad I read it when I did. I'll be coming back to it in the future.	2001-03-14
US	50286611	R24KTFKO2YYE0H	0449901556	218197502	Toddler Taming: A Survival Guide for Parents	Books	1	45	53	N	N	A Pernicious, dangerous book	How I hate to give a bad review - but here goes...<br />This book is pernicious and dangerous, but sadly because it tells parents what they may want to hear, some of them will buy it.<br />Why is my response to this book so strong? I am biased. I believe hitting children when they are naughty is abusive and counter-productive. This book does nothing to cure me of my view on this matter - in fact I find the discussion on punishment here to be yet another example of a circular argument. Instead, think of it this way: if I smack you I am inescapably conveying the message that it's OK to be violent. I am also telling you that it's OK for big powerful people to push smaller people around. With the best will in the world, these are the opposite of the messages I actually want to convey, but children pick up on what adults do more than on what they say. People might say 'what happens when there's no alternative?' but there are always alternatives. Smacking is the resort of parents at the end of their tether. It is an admission of failure, which may 'work' in the short term but will  only cause more problems in the long term. It represents a lack of imagination on the part of the parent, and there is always a better way.<br />How can I say this? Only because I am the parent of a toddler (and a three-month old baby), and I know at first hand how hard it can be. My toddler is a delightful little girl, as well as a frequent menace to society. If I want her to be even more of a delight and less of a menace she doesn't need 'taming' - she needs loving, and there's a world of difference.<br />Obviously this is lost on Christopher Green, who seems to be of the 'I was thrashed to within an inch of my life and it never did me any harm' school of thought. Even if you wanted to read something that backs up your existing views on how great smacking is, I couldn't really recommend this, because Green doesn't give a coherent argument in defense of corporal punishment.<br />Do yourself afavour: skip 'Toddler Taming' and read instead Adele Faber et al.'s 'How to Talk so Kids Will Listen &amp; Listen So Kids Will Talk'. This is the best book available on bringing up emotionally healthy, happy children.	2001-03-14
US	50286611	R25MD3TB7OXOA1	1582340145	220340038	Apocalypse Now: A Bloomsbury Movie Guide	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The essential a-z of the essential Vietnam war movie	I strongly disagree with one reviewer who said this is hardly worth buying. My advice is: buy it - you'll love it.<br />OK, I'm probably biased in that I tend to enjoy the 'encyclopaedia' format of books like this. I read one entry, then follow the links to another, and another until I'm totally immersed in the arcane and amazing information on offer. Linear readers might find it a bit annoying, I guess. However, even for them, this book is well worth reading. It's an essential companion to Apocalypse Now, and has certainly enhanced my viewing of the film. I love Karl French's terse, opinionated style.<br />My only complaint is that with a tiny bit more effort the references could have been complete enough to make this a useful academic work as well as the popular paperback it already is. For example, I would have loved to follow up Nguyen Khac Vien's  essay 'Apocalypse Now Viewed by a Vietnamese', quoted on p. 230, but couldn't since it doesn't appear in the bibliography. Having said that, there are plenty of leads here that I *am* going to follow up.	2001-03-13
US	50286611	R3VGUTWSO1G6TM	1573227749	593444393	The Tesseract	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great beach reading	Alex Garland has the potential to be a great novelist. Like the Beach, the Tesseract doesn't quite pull it off, but it fails in an absorbing, entertaining and thought-provoking manner. In short, it's a good read.<br />The central issue of the book's three main stories is the interconnectedness of life. Our existence interlocks so unexpectedly with that of others that we can't help seeking explanation. It's as though our life-changing chance encounters mean something, but we can't quite grasp what the meaning is. Hence the tesseract, a three dimensional representation of a four dimensional shape. We see the effect, but not the shape itself. Trying to imagine a four-dimensional shape is like trying to make sense of life.<br />However, if philosophical musings aren't your thing, don't let the above put you off. The first eighty pages of this book are a superb example of dark and paranoid thriller writing. The suspense builds as you read to find out if the Englishman will escape alive from the clutches of Don Pepe and his henchmen. The finale of the book is nail-biting too. This kind of  'intelligent thriller' (as many live ideas as dead bodies) reminded me of William Gibson - except Garland is interested in the realism of Manilla, rather than techno-fantasy.<br />I loved the character portrayal in this book - so understated, so evocative. In particular, Don Pepe's murderous obsession with his  Spanish blood; the musings of the PhD student in his high tower, buying dreams from street kids. Characters like these make Manilla come alive. Not one way of life but many and disparate. The city itself brings them into collision.	2001-03-05
US	50286611	R3MPIC0XKQ0IOO	0300053703	763891752	The Idea of Wilderness: From Prehistory to the Age of Ecology	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Get yourself back to the garden	'There are many things in western culture that are admirable. But a culture that alienates itself from the very ground of its own being - from the wilderness outside (that is to say wild nature, the wild, self-contained, self-informing ecosystems) and from that other wilderness, the wilderness within - is doomed to a very destructive behavior'. <br />This quotation from poet Gary Snyder sets the agenda for Max Oelschlaeger's important study of the idea of wilderness. His aim is to demonstrate the importance of the Darwinian idea of nature  'as the source of human existence, rather than a mere re-source to fuel the economy' (p.1) He approves strongly of a reaffirmation of the wilderness in the American consciousness, and along with Snyder he 'announces the opening of the frontier again and attempts to push it eastwards, to reverse America's historical process, to urge the wilderness to grow back into civilization, to release the stored energy from layers below us.' (L. Folson, quoted on p. 275).<br />This is more than a history of ecological ideas and more than a primer on 'wilderness philosophy'. It is a significant contribution to the question of civilisation and its purpose - in many respects a philosophical, ethical and religious challenge to the twenty-first century.	2001-02-26
US	50286611	RCKJTSW3H3D2U	0300029101	950825843	Wilderness and the American Mind, Third Edition	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A milestone in wilderness thought	This is an important work for anyone interested in the way the idea of wilderness has impacted on the American consciousness. A more recent and complimentary book is Max Oelschlaeger's 'The Idea of Wilderness'.	2001-02-26
US	50286611	R1K3BR8QO13886	0553106015	892486359	Buddha's Nature: A Practical Guide to Enlightenment Through Evolution	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Western science meets eastern wisdom	In this fun, accessible book, Wes Nisker takes his cue from Buddhist scholar Robert Thurman, who says, 'Buddhism is an evolutionary sport'. Here Nisker ably and readably demonstrates the links between eastern meditation and western science. In his view, both are attempting to understand the nature of existence and he writes, 'Buddhist meditation itself could be understood as a form of scientific research... The Buddha was a great scientist of the self'.<br />The author aims to introduce his readers to the practice of meditation as a way of understanding our existence. To do this he guides us through a commentary on the Buddhist classic, the Mahasatipattana Sutta (Great Discourse on the Establishment of Mindfulness). The four foundations of mindfulness contained therein form the framework of the bulk of Nisker's book. Along the way he ofers a series of exercises to allow readers to experiment with meditation for themselves.<br />I found this a good introduction to insight meditation and would recommend it to anyone wanting to know about vipassana - though experienced meditators or experienced scientists should probably look elsewhere.<br />I have only two criticisms. First, I would like to read fewer sweeping statements along the lines of 'Western psychologists have been telling us for years that...'. Second, I would like to see more of what the Mahasatipattana Sutta actually says. However, these are small quibbles. In all this is a very interesting introduction to Buddhist meditation which shows most clearly its relevance to contemporary science.	2001-02-16
US	50286611	R2SC5TLXTZDMPE	0674001680	106324248	The Song of the Earth	Books	5	21	21	N	N	'ecocriticism' comes of age	Jonathan Bate's short book, 'Romantic Ecology'(1991) was a landmark in literary ecocriticism. In 'The Song of the Earth' Bate has developed his theme further and in doing so has produced an instant classic.<br />The purpose of the book is to show how poetry is not only relevant but necessary in an age of increasing environmental unease. It is a manifesto for the urgency of 'ecopoetics'. Bate writes: 'This is a book about why poetry continues to matter as we enter a new millennium that will be ruled by technology. It is a book about modern western man's alienation from nature. It is about the capacity of the writer to restore us to the earth which is our home' (vii)<br />Chapters are as follows: 1. Going, Going 2. The State of Nature 3. A Voice for Ariel 4. Major Weather 5. The Picturesque Environment 6. Nests, Shell, Landmarks 7. Poets, Apes and Other Animals 8. The Place of Poetry 9. What are Poets For?<br />My favourite chapter is 'Major Weather' which, in some quite startling and original ways, charts the influence of climate on writing . The centre piece of the chapter is a reading of Keat's 'Ode to Autumn' as a 'weather poem', resembling 'a well-regulated ecosystem'. For Bate, the ode 'is not an escapist fantasy which turns its back on the ruptures of Regency culture, as late twentieth century criticism tended to suggest. No: it is a meditation on how human culture can only function through links and reciprocal relations with nature.'(103-4). I learned 'Ode to Autumn' as a schoolchild, and it has always stayed with me. Now I see eloquently expressed the reasons for its significance to me.<br />Bate has set himself a difficult but worthy task, to argue for poetry as 'the place where we save the earth', that if culture is the cause of environmental destruction it can also be its remedy. This, then, is a book that should be read by everyone with an interest in literature, by everyone with an interest in the continuation of life on the planet.	2001-02-06
US	50286611	R2D49AN9CA9CP3	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Calvino is an International Treasure	Of all my reading over the last twenty years this book is the one that has stayed with me the most strongly.<br />This is not because it has the best plot or the best characterisation, or because it has the best start or the best ending, or because it was the easiest novel to read. It's impact lies in the fact that it is a novel about reading novels, about the romance of reading - and the frustration too. In a sense, this novel actually taught me to read.<br />The ten chapters are each written in a different style and Calvino plays with the effects these styles have on the reader. I loved the sense of frustration at knowing only the first chapter of each of the books would ever come to light. I read this just after leaving Umberto Eco's 'The Name of the Rose' on a train in France - the sensation was both infuriating and delightful and this is what Calvino conjures up here.<br />While the hero may never get his novel finished, there is at least some potential for him to finally meet with the elusive Ludmilla. Will he get the girl? You'll have to read the start of ten novels to find out!	2001-02-05
US	50286611	R2WHQJNJP82YHV	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Invisible cities - visible genius	Calvino is well-known for stretching the form of the novel, and Invisible Cities is certainly innovative in this respect. Somewhat in the style of '1001 Nights', the reader is offered a series of one page descriptions of the cities Marco Polo has visited on his travels. Interspersed with this are conversations between Polo and his patron, Kublai Khan. The Khan has not seen these places because his empire is simply too big. In this sense the cities are invisible. However, it becomes increasingly likely that Marco Polo hasn't seen them either. Is he describing nothing but different facets of his home town, Venice - or is he making the whole thing up?<br />Wherever the truth may lie, each city Polo describes is simultaneously fantastic and true. Each page captures the magical reality of urban life, in a way that no 'realist' account ever could. Not only is this a great novel, it is a novel all town planners and architects should be forced to read. Calvino reminds us that we will only ever live in cities as grand as our imaginations. What we need is to imagine more vividly.	2001-02-05
US	50286611	R79CB35OPIX6Z	0415204062	183173421	The Green Studies Reader: From Romanticism to Ecocriticism	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Key readings on 'nature' and 'culture'	This is a very welcome reader in 'green' cultural studies that includes but goes well beyond 'ecocriticism', as narrowly confined to a subdiscipline of English literature. Its stated aim is 'to stimulate debate about the 'nature' of criticism and to give green studies some much-needed bearings'(Preface).<br />The readings included are wide ranging, and are organised in three loosely chronological sections: Green Tradition, Green Theory and Green Reading. They have been chosen to help the reader come to terms with the age-old relationship between 'nature' and 'culture', which Jonathan Bate claims in his Foreword to be 'the key intellectual problem of the twentieth century'.<br />Ecocriticism is better established in the United States than in Britain. This has resulted in two related problems. First, texts on ecocriticism have up to now tended to focus on American literature and theory. Second, North Atlantic ecocriticism has not engaged with  (non-English) European thought as thoroughly as it might. The Green Studies Reader goes some way towards remedying these 'faults'. While it is still firmly focussed on Anglo-American literature, (and film), it includes significant readings from key French and German thinkers.<br />This book is an important, even crucial, read for anyone interested in the ways in which planetary life might at last take 'its rightful place at the centre of that discipline which we might still call, though with appropriate hesitation, the humanities' (Introduction).	2001-02-01
US	50286611	R1KNJFMV86CI74	0140195874	753623857	One Continuous Mistake : Four Noble Truths for Writers	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Inspiration rising!	Gail Sher is a master baker, author of the inspirational 'From A Baker's Kitchen', which like the better known 'Tassajara Bread Book' describes less a set of recipes than a way of life.<br />The same can be said of 'One Continuous Mistake'. With writing as with baking, what is offered is not a set of prescriptive guidelines, for this is not a simplistic 'how-to' manual. Rather this is a highly accessible and attractive collection of insights into what it is to be a writer. <br />Sher is a member of the San Francisco Zen Center, and her approach is guided by an interpretation of Zen principles. For her, writing, like meditation, is a 'practice'. The path is itself the destination. <br />I would take issue with the Amazon review posted here, which says, 'Though there are a few writing exercises here, this is less a workbook than a series of meditations on how to be a writer.' Actually there are plenty of 'exercises' if you want them. For instance, the book is particularly helpful in guiding the reader through the writing of haiku (short poems)as a way into writing. Sher's approach is intensely practical. She proposes 'four noble truths' of writing, of which the first is 'writers write'! However, rather than haranguing readers into despair over the paucity of our own written words, she invites us to see how exactly the writing life can become for us immesurably enriching.<br />Actually, there is another book on a similar theme - writing as interpreted by a Zen perspective - and it's called 'Writing Down The Bones' by Natalie Goldberg. Don't ask me to choose between them. Read them both. After all, writers need all the friends they can get.	2001-01-31
US	50286611	R2EL7CNER4OFS7	0415146992	961588264	Fifty Key Thinkers on the Environment (Routledge Key Guides)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Environmental thought through the ages	A useful addition to the Routledge key thinkers series and a very helpful guide for students in various types of 'environmental studies'.<br />Clearly, any choice of 'key thinkers' in any area will be partial and provisional. However, Palmer has done a good job of offering a broad selection, from religious founders to philosophers to writers to scientists to activists. The compilers are also well chosen, experts by and large. For instance J. Baird Callicott and Holmes Rolston III appear both as 'key thinkers' and as contributors. <br />A particular strength of this collection of biographical essays is that is covers a much wider historical scope than many of the standard readers in environmental studies. Thus it goes some way towards setting more recent thinkers in their historical context. Also very helpful are the bibliographies appearing with each entry of the individual's 'major writings' and of recommended 'further reading'.<br />A book of this sort succeeds if it gently makes readers aware of what they do not know, arouses their interest, makes them keen to explore further. While many of the subjects described here were already known to me, there are many others about whom I am now looking forward to learning more. In short, success.	2001-01-30
US	50286611	R1G8SIJZU68GM	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Fiction for the sake of art	This is a novel about art and obsession, written in turns as mystery and as farce. The mystery concerns how a long-lost painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder could have turned up un-noticed in a crumbling mansion in the English countryside. Could this be the piece that makes sense of the others in the artist's priceless cycle of 'The Months'? And what does it say about the role of Bruegel in the turbulent birth of the Dutch Republic? Pastoral or polemic - what are his paintings really about?<br />Meanwhile, the farce concerns the lengths to which protagonist Martin Clay will go to get his hands on the unrecognised painting (which may or may not be what he thinks it is). Frayne has produced an hilariously convoluted plot in which Clay deceives everyone he meets - most of all himself. Whether it is comedy or tragedy, Avarice seems to be the winner, though perhaps Clay's 'confession' - the book - is his attempt at showing that he has learned the error of his ways.<br />Reading this, I learned a great deal about Bruegel and the bloody history of the Netherlands of his day. An aquaintance of mine checked all of Frayne's references and found that they were indeed accurate. I too was left with a feeling of wanting to know much more about the intrigue that surrounds Bruegel.<br />If the book has a weakness it is that the plot is barely enough to support the weight of the research. I wonder whether the best way to write about an artist isn't simply to write about the artist. On the other hand, I picked up a piece of fiction, but now I'm hooked on the art...	2001-01-30
US	50286611	R1IJ4FEU9T5VRI	0060953020	198870493	Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The harsh miracle of life	Einstein once said that there are two ways of living: as though nothing is a miracle, or as though everything is. 'Pilgrim at Tinker Creek' is a window into a world in which everything is miraculous.<br />Dillard took a great deal of trouble writing this, surely her best work. She wrote, while recovering from a serious bout of pneumonia, by distilling some 22 journals into the final manuscript. Her sense of mortality shows, but the resulting prose is effortless and at times miraculous in itself.<br />Like Thoreau, on whom she had written a thesis, Dillard spent a year in a hut in the woods of a 'rather tamed valley' in order to 'see what I could see' and to seek some answers to some of life's important questions. Whereas Thoreau saw nature as the answer ('in the preservation of the wild is the salvation of the world'), Dillard sees nature as the problem. Why is it so cruel, so gruesome, so seemingly heartless - and yet so beautiful, so alive? As she meditates on the image of a frog, eaten from the inside out by a giant water bug, she asks herself, What kind of God made this kind of world?<br />There are no easy or conventional answers, for 'our life is a faint tracing on the surface of mystery'. The author's aim, if she cannot understand the mystery of horror and beauty that is life, is at least to see it as it really is: 'We must somehow take a wider view, look at the whole landscape, really see it, and describe what's going on here. Then we can at least wail the right question into the swaddling band of darkness, or, if it comes to that,choir the proper praise'.<br />Like the bear who went over the mountain, Dillard claims, all she could see was more of the same. The trick however is not what you see, but the way you see it. Having read this book I for one will never see the other side of the mountain in the same light again. It is now forever more ambiguous, more beautiful and, yes, more holy.	2001-01-29
US	50286611	R1DQBSXHOLURQT	1580080162	779992735	The Sustainable Vegetable Garden: A Backyard Guide to Healthy Soil and Higher Yields	Books	5	63	70	N	N	For organic vegetables - start here!	What is 'biointensive vegetable gardening? In brief it features the following methods: - focus on the health of the soil as the starting point for a productive garden (this is the meaning of 'bio-'); - emphasis on growing the most vegetables in the least possible space for maximum efficiency (hence '-intensive'); - vegetables grown in narrow beds (for ease of access and positive microclimate)which have been 'double-dug' and composted; - closer spacing of plants than usual due to greater depth of soil, assisted by companion planting; -organic nutrition and pest control throughout.<br />This short book is a great introduction to organic vegetable growing, especially the 'biointensive' method. It is also a useful work for experienced gardeners who want to know about John Jeavons' highly successful methods, but don't have lots of time to study the weightier 'How to Grow More Vegetables'. That book is a real classic of organic gardening, and stands alongside  Elliot Coleman's 'The New Organic Grower' as a 'must-have' reference book. However, 'The Sustainable Vegetable Garden' is more than just an abridged version of Jeavons' earlier book. It actually makes many of the key concepts easier to understand and put into practice. It is full of useful diagrams which will be invaluable to the novice and expert alike. You don't just read about how to 'double dig' a bed - there are step by step images to help you see exactly how it's done.<br />For beginners, just about everything you need to know is covered. Its rare to find a book that explains the details to clearly and concisely. For more experienced gardeners, you will almost certainly discover tools and methods you can use by reading this book. I found I could more or less skip the chapter on composting but was particularly interested in Coleman &amp; Cox's approach to planning how much of each crop to plant in a season. A number of charts and plans are included for you to photocopy and use yourself. In fact, the approah toplanning a vegetable garden outlined here is a particular strength of the book.<br />Here's what the book includes: 1. Thinking about raising food sustainably 2. Before you start 3. What do you want to eat? Choosing what to grow 4. Preparing a biointensive bed: Double-Digging 5. What to feed a biointensive bed: Compost 6. Seedlings 7. Planning and planting crops 8. Growing compost crops 9. Growing more calories 10. Arranging what goes into a bed: Companion planting 11. Keeping the garden healthy 12. Seeds for next year's garden Appendices on supplies and resources and additional tools for garden planning.<br />So what are you waiting for? Buy it and get growing!	2000-12-13
US	50286611	R15TKJEM8PWKLF	093003175X	820797900	The New Organic Grower: A Master's Manual of Tools and Techniques for the Home and Market Gardener, 2nd Edition (A Gardener's Supply Book)	Books	5	187	192	N	N	Essential reading for organic growers	This amounts to the 'bible' of organic growing. It is informative and inspirational in equal measure. While the approach Coleman takes is particularly suited to market gardening, it is also eminently suitable for smaller-scale gardeners who simply wish to feed their family. <br />Coleman writes, 'The premise of this book is that you can make a good living on 5 acres or less of intensive vegetable production. Thus it is those acres that concern us most.' (p16)<br />In a nutshell, Coleman's approach is to:<br />- plan and market effectively<br />- develop the healthiest soil<br />- grow the most valuable crops<br />- extend the growing season to the maximum<br />He show just how to do this in 334 pages with 28 chapters and four appendices. There isn't space here to offer a contents list, but here are some highlights:<br />Chapters addressing the question 'why do it?' - Agricultural craftsmanship', 'a final question'<br />Chapters on 'season extension', mobile greenhouses and 'the winter garden'.<br />'Plant-positive' solutions to pests.<br />Chapters on marketing strategy and marketing.<br />However, 'The New Organic Grower' covers far more than this - in fact everything you could need to start successful organic vegetable production! Readers living in cool/temperate climates may also want to check out Coleman's other popular book, 'Four Season Harvest'.	2000-12-13
US	50286611	RXBIUIQEQGSWW	0945454147	345909168	Buddhism and Ecology: The Interconnection of Dharma and Deeds (Religions of the World and Ecology)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	An excellent introduction to Buddhist environmentalism	This is a first rate academic introduction to Buddhist environmentalism. 'Buddhism and Ecology' is one of a series of volumes on world faiths and ecology produced by the Harvard University Center for the Study of World Religions. It contains 19 essays from a variety of perspectives, all seeking to make a Buddhist contribution to the ongoing discussion of the environmental crisis.<br />While a number of essays are philosophical in nature, practical outcomes are not neglected. The essays consider Buddhism as practised in Thailand, Japan, India, America and elsewhere. Theravada, Mahayana and Zen traditions are specifically considered, as is 'engaged Buddhism'.<br />I would recommend this work as an excellent introduction to a continuing discussion, with only the following two reservations. First, most of the essays are written by American, or American based, authors. This is not necessarily a problem, and it reflects the nature of the conference which produced the papers presented here. But given the wealth of writers on Buddhism around the world, a greater breadth could have been represented. This leads to my second minor gripe, which is that there are no essays specifically on Tibetan Buddhism. This is a great shame, although, clearly, not everything can be considered, even in a fairly weighty tome such as this.<br />There is an extremely useful bibliography, and I now recommend this book to interested people, alongside 'Dharma Gaia', which covers similar ground, but in a more populist, less academic way. 'Dharma Rain' is another recent work covering similar ground in a slightly less academic fashion.	2000-11-22
US	50286611	R1Q1M7Q5L0QGE2	1573227161	950636517	Caucasia: A Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	N	The Invisible Man is a Girl!	This novel (though it reads like a memoir, rambling and real) is strongly influenced by the classic figure of Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man.<br />Like him, Senna's protagonist, Birdie, disappears.  However, instead of turning invisible she becomes white. She and her mother create an alternative reality, a fictional past, where her father and sister are not black, where racial tension in Boston has not shattered their lives. The strain of a lifetime of being other than oneself, of 'passing' for white or black, is made palpable; so it is no surprise that for Birdie the illusion cannot ultimately be maintained.<br />As a meditation on the tortuous and tortured issue of race in America, this book is first-rate. However, the author repeatedly allows politics to speak louder than emotions, as though the feelings are too raw for her to express in words. In the end, though, it is feelings that make a good novel, even a political novel.<br />Birdie's father Deck claims that mullattos are the 'canaries in the coal mine' of American society - their future is that of the nation. I can't help feeling that all the characters in 'Caucasia' stand for something else, when they would have done better simply to stand for themselves.	2000-11-17
US	50286611	R3CY2RLW19NWF3	0385476760	541051725	The Web of Life: A New Scientific Understanding of Living Systems	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Systems thinking explained for the rest of us.	This book is an excellent synthesis of those intriguing and sexy scientific terms you'd like to understand but don't know where to begin. Systems theory, complexity, chaos, cognition, autopoeisis, symbiosis, gaia theory. For these and more the answer is to start reading here.<br />Those who already have half a clue about what these terms may refer to will notice that Capra's overview is emphatically cross-disciplinary. His bringing together of work in different fields of inquiry makes him well worth reading to see something of the 'bigger picture'. There is also likely to be something here you didn't already know. For instance, I was intrigued by Capra's description of the work of Candace Pert on the role of peptides, and her conclusion: 'I can no longer make a strong distinction between the brain and the body' (p. 276). Time after time I was filled with the strong desire to know more about the wonderful world Capra is describing, and to chase up the references on each page. <br />Capra's approach, along with his conclusions, are controversial and all the more stimulating for that. Even if you don't swallow the whole story, his vision of life in which everything is connected to everything else will make you question many preconceived ideas about the nature of nature. Despite what might be claimed for a book such as this, Capra hasn't quite reached the 'holy grail' of a complete, holistic account of life. In fact, it is exciting to consider how much there is that we still don't know and can't agree on. I give 'The Web of Life' four stars. I felt is petered out somewhat toward the end. If there had been a more dynamic conclusion to the book, it would be worth five.	2000-11-16
US	50286611	R2P5ZONBA52USO	0802800149	405724554	Be Our Freedom, Lord: Responsive Prayers and Readings for Contemporary Worship	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books of prayers	This is one of the best and freshest books of prayers for public Christian worship I have come across. A great shame its out of print in the US, but you might be able to get  from the publisher. While this collection of 'responsive prayers and readings for contemporary worship' is compiled by an Australian Baptist minister, it is neither narrowly Baptist nor narrowly Australian. There is a wide variety of material, sourced from around the world, helpfully collected in sections which make it easy to find relevant prayers quickly. You can search for prayers by theme, first line, author or scripture reference. Another of its great strengths lies in the fact that most of the prayers included are responsive and that they are often devised for more than one 'leader' (eg male and female). This book does not atempt to provide alternative liturgies, but to resource existing liturgies and inspire dynamic worship. The aim is to relate worship to the rest of reality. The editor, Terry Falla, quotes John Macquarrie as saying, 'Prayer interprets the world and the world interprets prayer'. My use of this book has enabled worship I have led to make just that  link.	2000-11-16
US	50286611	R2WHA1E1PUAAX3	0415188342	309155073	Sacred Gaia: Holistic Theology and Earth System Science	Books	5	13	13	N	N	groundbreaking gaian theology	Biologist and theologian Celia Deane-Drummond has written, 'Gaia should not be allowed a place as a form of theology' (1992:283). Anne Primavesi's latest book shows just how worthwhile it can be to ignore this advice.<br />Primavesi has written a first-rate theological reflection on the significance of humanity's place in the universe, thoroughly embedded, that is, is the processes of evolution. At the same time, however, she is able to critique Darwin's political biases in the light of more recent systems thinking, and to relate the controversial 'Gaia hypothesis' about the earth as a living system, to a more general and wide ranging discussion of the implications of 'autopoeisis'. In less than two hundred pages, the author suceeds in covering a wide range of important material, much of it rarely considered by theologians. For those lacking confidence in their knowledge of systems science I would recommend reading Fritjof Capra's 'The Web of Life' in conjunction with this book. Primavesi's  organising principle of  'selfScape/socialScape/poeticScape/earthScape' is imaginative and helpful.<br />'Sacred Gaia' goes much further than, for example, Rosemary Radford Ruether's 'Gaia and God' in taking seriously the specific ramifications of  the Gaia theory for theology. However, if I have a criticism, it is that there is no mention of the problem of testing Lovelock's claims in a meaningful way. In other words, Primavesi seems more interested in appropriating  'Gaia' as an attractive idea than as an accurate description of how life and the planet really interact.  I am among those who are also strongly attracted to the idea, but it doesn't clarify matters to understate the difficulties of verifying certain features of systems theory.<br />All told, though, this is a sophisticated, highly engaging and groundbreaking book.	2000-11-09
US	50286611	R2OQUIPJBJGWRD	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	137	145	N	N	Priests...in...spaaace!	Who should read this novel?<br />1. Sci-fi fans - it has won lots of awards, featured on umpteen 'best of' lists and is just excellent science fiction. If I only had five sci-fi books, this would be one of them. Having said that, it's not 'hard sci-fi' - in other words it doesn't let the science get in the way of the story. Willing suspension of disbelief is the way to go.<br />2. anthropologists - Ok, so that's not many of us, but the point is that this book sensitively explores the concept of 'otherness'. There are two intelligent species on the planet. One is nice but dim, the other is bright but deadly. Who do the humans identify with? Intriguing question, huh? Well it was for me, anyway.<br />3. Religious people. And also people interested in the possibility of God, the possibility of forgiveness. This book faithfully addresses the seeming absence of God in the pain of the world (or should that be universe?). But it's never 'preachy', just keepin' it real.<br />4. Anyone who likes a good yarn. It's well written and the plot cracks along. The repeated cutting between the story of the mission and the aftermath of the mission keeps you guessing to the end. There's a kind of dawning realisation of the horror of what's being told, and I for one couldn't put it down.<br />5. Look, the first human contact with alien life is sponsored not by NASA but by... THE VATICAN! Its a mad idea - you just have to read this book to see how it works out.	2000-11-01
US	50286611	R2QSJIC3NNVQQ	0722532326	206810394	Western Buddhism: New Insights into the West's Fastest-growing Religion	Books	5	2	2	N	N	holding a lotus to a rock	Towards the end of this book, Kunananda quotes the German philosopher Goethe: 'Whoever knows others as well as himself, must also recognise that East and West are now inseparable' (p.211). In many respects the reception of Buddhism in Europe and America is a test case for this assertion. Is Buddhism inherently 'Eastern', unbreakably connected to the cultures in which it developed, Indian, Sri Lankan, Tibetan, Chinese, Japanese, Korean  and so on, or is it capable of transition to a different set of cultures: can it become 'Western'? It has been said that bringing Buddhism to the west is like holding a lotus to a rock and waiting for it to take root. In actuality Buddhism has already become western, and is now the fastest growing religion in France and Australia, but at what cost to its integrity? How has its encounter with the west changed it into something new? Kulananda provides an insightful map of this new territory, both introducing key Buddhist concepts and showing how the dharma has adapted to each new culture it has encountered. He consistently combines intelligence with readability as he offers an overview of 'western Buddhism', warts and all. I found the chapter on Buddhism and the cultural self-doubt of the west particularly interesting. Coming from the Friends of the Western Buddhist Order, kulananda is less dispassionate about this group than about some others, but this mainly serves to give credence to the lived experience out of which he writes. I cannot fault this book, but it did make me wonder whether the concepts of 'eastern' and 'western' will continue to have much credibility in the twenty-first century. There is surely something perverse about western capitalism's systematic destruction of traditional Buddhist cultures such as that of Thailand, at the same time that Thai forest Buddhism is gaining increasing numbers of western converts. In this transnational cultural exchange, why is it that the west gets religion but the east gets economics? In this context, Kulananda is surely charting not 'east' or 'west' but Buddhism as a global phenomenon, whose future, as that of the planet, is unknown.	2000-10-26
US	50286611	R30D0SD9ZV4EWA	0865714207	378844699	Widening Circles: A Memoir	Books	5	35	37	N	N	A life worth living	I read this book because I had already found 'World as Lover, World as Self' to be inspiring. Joanna Macy's combination of Buddhism, general systems theory and deep ecology seems to 'fit' for me, but here it is her sheer humanity that impresses most. In this memoir she is not afraid to lay open her weaknesses as well as her strenghths, her questions as well as her answers. While her story ends in Bodh Gaya, the Indian site of the Buddha's awakening, what struck me most was the distance Macy had travelled to get there - a whole lifetime of journeying, and seventy years of a dramatically changing world to negotiate. A common thread through many of these years is Macy's opposition to the nuclear military/industrial complex, from her two years employment with the CIA and its culture of 'tough-mindedness' (p.65), to her visit to the people of Novozybkov, poisoned by Chernobyl, her insistence on the need to recognise, express and work through grief is constant. Her ability to guide people through despair to empowerment is a highly significant contribution to the world. To read the story of her life is to see how it can be possible to live without cynicism and with hope intact in the nuclear age. Since I had not read 'Coming Back to Life', Macy's nuclear guardianship project was new to me, and I found it extremely brave and moving. Another thread that runs through Macy's life story is the development of an authentic spirituality. Macy says 'the widening circles of my life have not had as their center the Big Papa God of my preacher forebears. I walked out on that belief when I was twenty'. (p. 277) Despite leaving formal Christianity, she tells of how she 'failed as an atheist' and of her many adventures with Buddhism. These range from the intellectual adventure of studying 'dependent co-arising' to the practical adventures of being thrown out of Sri Lanka and, later, trying to smuggle herself into Tibet illegally. Macy seems too much of a free spirit to sign on the dotted line of any religion, and she is able here to critique as well as praise aspects of Buddhism as she has encountered it. A quote on the back cover of the book is worth repeating: 'A gem for all young people seeking to create a life of meaning, passion and purpose'. I would endorse this, and widen it to include the not-so-young. Its interesting that much of what Macy is known for today was achieved only after her fortieth birthday...line of any religion, and she is able here to critique as well as praise aspects of Buddhism as she has encountered it. A quote on the back cover of the book is worth repeating: 'A gem for all young people seeking to create a life of meaning, passion and purpose'. I would endorse this, and widen it to include the not-so-young. Its interesting that much of what Macy is known for today was achieved only after her fortieth birthday...	2000-10-26
US	50286611	R268QJ82KWTR73	0938077783	615150338	Seeds of Peace: A Buddhist Vision for Renewing Society	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Engaged Buddhism in action and reflection	This is an inspiring and uplifting book. Rooted firmly in a particular time and place - Thailand of the early 1990s - its message is universal. 'Depending on how we live our lives, different seeds are watered. When we are in a conflict, the seeds of anger can easily sprout and come to the surface. When we are calm and at peace, the seeds of happiness come forth' (p. xv). Sulak Sivaraksa writes no abstract theory but the lived experience of one who has been a light of inspiration for compassion, respect and democracy within and beyond Thailand. The book is a series of essays collected in two main sections. Part One, The Politics of Greed comes out of Sivaraksa's social and political activism, a stance that led to his exile from his homeland. Here he critiques consumerism and large-scale 'development', offering in its place his own version of 'development as if people mattered.' Despite the ravages of globalising capitalism imposed on his country, most clearly seen by environmental disaster and a whole culture of prostitution, Sivaraksa remains hopeful and determined about the future: 'Asia's new vision of reality must be spiritual and ecological. If we can develop in this way, the future may be bright'. (p. 54)<br />Part Two, Personal and Societal Transformation, reveals the explicitly spiritual grounding of Sivaraksa's social vision. Here he considers the significance of religion for social change, describes his own vision of 'Buddhism with a small &quot;b&quot;', and discusses The Five Precepts, the role of women in Buddhist society and Buddhist nonviolence. He concludes with a call for the construction of 'a Buddhist model of society' - the sangha as 'one prototypical form of the emerging counter-civilisation' (p. 102). The book ends with an appendix of essays relating specifically to the political events of the early 1990s. They give an insight into the personal risk the author's principled position has led him to undertake.  Sivaraksa is clearly an eloquent exponent of what has come to be known as 'engaged Buddhism'. I read this book because I wanted to know how this strand of dharma works from within a traditionally Buddhist culture, rather than from a 'western' perspective. I was not disappointed.	2000-10-26
US	50286611	R1YZOW43YZ74B5	0399232052	593892721	Old Bear board book	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This is one you'll learn by heart	Every morning our eighteen month old daughter starts the day by exclaiming 'Old Bear!' - the cue that one of us must read it with her without further  ado. If it's not left in her cot at night, she often says, 'Oh dear, Old  Bear?'. In short this book really wins the toddler vote. Our toddler learnt  how to wobble by reading this. She also learnt the meaning of 'sad'. Old  bear is a story of lasting friendship, teamwork among stuffed toys, and a  daring airborne rescue bid. Contrary to one review, the pictures are not  'sugary-sweet', Our very discerning daughter loves them, and actually, so  do I. We have found that we've read the book so often that the words are  imprinted in our memories - but amazingly we don't mind. All together now:  'One day the toys were sitting by the window when they remembered their  friend Old Bear...'	2000-09-17
US	50286611	R1PZRBVJYU7LNH	0938077279	88454398	World as Lover, World as Self	Books	5	90	90	N	N	a shopping bag of delights	Joanna Macy recalls how as a young child she sent a sick and quarantined  relative a shopping bag of objects that would tell their own story of what  she had been about and what she was thinking and doing. Now she likens this  collection of essays to such a bag. Not an autobiography, it nevertheless  conveys most clearly the author's personal concerns in the fields of  Buddhism, deep ecology and systems philosophy. The chapters comprise 'so  many pieces of my life that reflect the pursuits of my heart and mind'. The  book is arranged in the following sections: One: Trusting our Experience  Two: Rediscovering the Early Teachings Three: Learning in Asia Four Opening  New Doors The first part invites readers to engage with their own feelings  about environmental destruction and social injustice, and offers conceptual  tools to enable this connecting to take place. Part Two discusses the  contemporary relevance of classic Buddhist teachings, especially the  concept of 'mutual causality'. While this will clearly be of interest to  Buddhist practitioners,  others including myself, will find it has a much  wider significance. The third part expands on Macy's experiences of  Buddhist encounters in Asia. It could have been entitled 'engaged Buddhism  in action'. She recounts some fascinating meetings and some valuable  lessons learnt. The final part of the book shows how Macy's expanding  world-view has led to opportunities for growth and development and sharing  accross a wide variety of contexts. Especially interesting for me was her  description of 'The Council of All Beings'. The book's title refers to an  essay in part one, which suggests people tend to view the world in one of  at least four ways: as battlefield, as trap, as lover or as self. Her  reflections on these attitudes are alone worth far more than the cost of  the book. I loved her quotation from a conversation with Australian  rainforest campaigner, John Seed: 'I try to remember that it's not me...  trying to protect the rainforest. Rather , I am part of the rainforest  protecting itself.'	2000-09-14
US	50286611	R15L4IXQLKAZ96	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	If you don't read it you'll soon be the only one who hasn't	This is the kind of book that seems to have everything. It first became  popular by word of mouth rather than by any great publicity drive. In  particular, when booksellers were confronted by a customer saying 'what  shall I read?' they knew they could comfortably recommend Captain Corelli  to just about anyone. It's a war story, a love story, a travel story (Greek  islands, Mediterranean vibes etc), a political story, a tragedy, a romance  and a comedy. This makes it a great book to buy as a gift for someone else,  as tens of thousands have. Of course, whether this mixture of elements  actually works in a novel you'll have to judge for yourself. My own view is  that de Bernieres succeeds in what he attempts. Many people have complained  that the start is too slow and the ending unsatisfying. I think that's a  bit like calling a sandwich boring because it's made out of bread. You have  to savour the whole thing to get the benefit. One criticism I would uphold,  though, is of the politics. de Bernieres portrays the Greek resistence to  Nazism as useless and evil. This is simply a misrepresentation of the  facts, based on a strong anti-communist bias. There's nothing wrong with  being anti-communist, but misrepresenting history doesn't help the  argument.	2000-09-08
US	50286611	R3HPXSZ73UHSMZ	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Still singing of arms and the man	The links between this novel and Homer's Oddysey are striking, but Charles  Frazier has worked a wonder here. He has taken the well-rehearsed tale of a  war-weary soldier returning home to his wife and made from it something  new, original and a great myth in its own right. The pain, the waiting, the  homesickness, the longing and the tragedy are all made tangible by  Frazier's beautifully sparse prose. His evocation of the Civil War and of  Cold Mountain are masterful. I read this at the same time as my father. We  kept phoning one another up to discuss it. One of my most enjoyable reads  in a long while.	2000-09-08
US	50286611	RPV0I94YE2G8B	1563382172	668308955	Paul and Empire: Religion and Power in Roman Imperial Society	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A Useful anthology	This is a useful anthology on an important subject in Pauline studies.  Although the fourteen essays presented here have been published elsewhere,  it is very helpful to have them collected in one place. Further, Richard  Horsley's introductory material offers a significant synthesis of the  material. In short, the collection depicts St Paul as developing an  explicitly anti-imperial movement, in opposition to the all-pervasive  emperor cult of Rome. Three aspects of this movement are focussed on:  Theology (Parts 1 and 3), Patronage (Part 2) and church as an alternative  society (Part 4). I would recommend this book to undergraduate students of  the Bible, and indeed to anyone who doesn't see what politics has to do  with the New Testament. I would also recommend Neil Elliott's 'Liberating  Paul', some of which is reproduced in this volume.	2000-09-08
US	50286611	R2VOTX64K0IQM6	0440507561	666166450	Live the Life You Love: In Ten Easy Step-By Step Lessons	Books	5	196	197	N	N	No, really, this book did change my life!	At a difficult point in my career, I turned to this book to help me move  to something new. I followed the steps described and it really worked. I  had a dream of teaching environmental ethics at university, and now I am! A  great thing about this book is that it is really written for sceptics like  me who can't stand self-help books. Barbera Sher is particularly suspicious  of resolutions and positive affirmations. She states quite clearly that you  don't have to improve your character in order to get a good life - good  news indeed! Another great thing about this book is that, just as she  promises, all the exercises suggested are actually fun. This book moved me  from a place of despondancy to a widening sense of wonder and excitement in  life. Could you ask for more than that?	2000-09-07
US	50286611	R34TCZ371P7JQN	0684872013	112051106	Earth User's Guide to Permaculture	Books	4	70	70	N	N	makes permaculture understandable and practicable	Rosemary Morrow lives in Eastern Australia and has taught permaculture  design in India, Africa, Thailand and Cambodia. As a result of her  considerable skill and experience she has written a first-rate, practical  and informative guide to sustainable living. Permaculture was first  developed by Bill Mollison and Dvid Holmgren and has since spread  exponentially around the world. This book is a very practical guide to help  you get started in your locality. While it has an Australian perspective,   I have found the vast majority of it entirely applicable or easily  adaptable to a Northern hemisphere temperate context.  I bought The Earth  User's Guide to Permaculture because I wanted to learn about Permaculture  but was intimidated by the price and sheer weight of the key textbook,  Permaculture: A Designer's Manual, by Mollison. I was also unable to  participate in a hands-on design course at the time due to work and family  committments.  What I found was inspiring. I have since completed the  design certificate and am now teaching a university course in environmental  ethics. There are several strengths to the Earth User's Guide. First, there  are plenty of excellent illustrations by Rob Allsop, so you can see as well  as read about the process and principles of permaculture design. The twenty  well-chosen colour photographs compliment these. Secondly, the book  focusses on two different real-life examples, a small suburban house and an  eighty acre farm. Seeing permaculture in action in real places is very  helpful. Third, the book avoids duplicating material that can be found  elsewhere and instead focusses on the practical. There are project ideas  here that could take a morning or a lifetime to complete. As Rosemary  Morrow writes in the preface, 'start now and let your life be enriched'.	2000-09-06
US	50286611	R1U5W6658SZ575	0465072720	595513676	Symbiotic Planet: A New Look At Evolution	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Radical theories on the evolution of life on earth	I um'd and ah'd about how many stars to give this book. If I was just  assessing the importance of Lynn Margulis's scientific work it would  definitely receive five stars. Margulis is an underrated genius. Her work  on symbiosis and evolution is extremely important. It reminds us that  evolution is far more complex than a simple choice between neo-Darwinism  and Lamarckism. Her connecting of her ideas to the Gaia hypothesis of James  Lovelock is inspired. Unfortunately, this book shows why she might be  getting less exposure than she deserves - it is not terribly well written.  In fact, it reads as though it was produced in a hurry with almost no  editing. Further, there are diagrams in the book which have no stated  connection to the text (OK, you can work it out for yourself, but it still  comes across as shoddy). Having said that, the style perhaps gives an  insight into the person - clearly Margulis is a battler for her ideas. Its  good to have something to read by her that is less weighty than her other  seminal but hefty works. Sometimes here she can be very funny. I  particularly liked her comments on James Lovelock's dislike of the  patenting process. So in all, four stars - a very good book that with a  little tightening up could be great.	2000-09-03
US	50286611	R3M0QTDOAC833I	1887178279	993307197	A Place in Space: Ethics, Aesthetics, and Watersheds	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Wide ranging insights into Gary Snyder's lifetime concerns	I bought this book, along with the poetry collection, No Nature, to gain an insight into the work of Gary Snyder, someone I had often seen quoted,  but had never read at first hand. Snyder is perhaps best known as a west  coast 'nature' poet, a fellow traveller of the 'beat generation', but he is  also a prominent Buddhist, bioregional visionary and literary scholar. To  judge from this book he is, moreover, an accomplished and eloquent  essayist. The essays presented here, articles, reviews, talks and what  might loosely be called manifestos, come mainly from the 70s to the 90s and  span the breadth of Snyder's interests. Arranged in three sections, Ethics,  Aesthetics and Watersheds, Snyder's writing manages to be  poetic,  religious, political and compelling at all times. Having read this book I  feel inspired to read more, I'll try The Practice of the Wild next (more  prose), followed by Turtle Island (poetry for which Snyder won the Pulitzer  Prize). For anyone concerned to cultivate a humane relationship with the  more-than-human world, Snyder is a surefooted guide.	2000-09-03
US	50286611	R1MOEDC7500ABQ	0312202792	239391714	Body Politic	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Edinburgh's Future? No thanks.	It's Scotland, but not as we know it. In the year 2021 the UK has broken up, and Edinburgh is now a city-state run on the lines of Plato's Republic, with a good measure of corruption thrown in.  Unfortunately, that's about  as interesting as this book ever gets. The plot is very standard 'grizzly  murder' fare and the tone is so cynical that I found it impossible to care  about any of the characters, especially the protagonist, Quintillian  Dalrymple. I suspect Paul Johnson's reputation has benefitted from the  current high level of interest in Edinburgh crime writing. However, for  better  characters and plots try Ian Rankin; for better writing, try Iain  Banks and for grizzlier murders try Christopher Brookmyre. Maybe Johnson's  writing will improve. I hope so. In the meantime, I'd certainly recommend  this book to someone who is intrigued by a crime novel set in the Edinburgh  of the imaginary future. Sound like you?	2000-07-31
US	50286611	R1G9ZKDZZY9XL1	1890132284	508367858	Gaviotas: A Village to Reinvent the World	Books	4	13	14	N	N	South American Shangri-La	Do you believe in Utopia? Throughout history people have looked for the ideal community, a place where problems are solved, not created, where a dream of peace and harmony can be fulfilled. In the words of the high llama  of Shangri-La, in Capra's classic film, Lost Horizon: 'the world must begin  to look for a new life and it is our hope that they may find it here. For  here we shall be with their books and their music and a way of life based  on one simple rule: Be kind. When that day comes, it is our hope that the  brotherly love of Shangri-La will spread throughout the world.' Alan  Weisman writes his account of the Columbian settlement of Gavoitas firmly  in the tradition of utopian literature: he has found his Shangri-La and it  is not only a utopia but an eco-topia too. I found the story he has to tell  immensely inspiring from an environmental point of view, especially his  description of the way in which the Gaviotans have managed to reforest the  pampas. However, I also found that the way he tells the story detracts from  some of its potential power. At one point, he mistakenly claims that  'utopia' is the Greek for 'no place'and that therefore Gaviotas cannot be a  utopia because it exists. In fact 'utopia' is Greek for 'good place', which  would admirably describe Gaviotas, I would have thought. The problem with  utopian writing is that it often leaves the reader doubting the reality of  the place described. Can Shangri-La really be found? Can Gaviotas really  exist, magically protected as it is from the twin ravages of marxist  gorillas and cocaine barons? In promoting the positive aspects of the  Gaviotan experiment, Weisman downplays any negative aspects that must  surely exist. I would have liked to have read an account that presented the  settlement 'warts and all', rather than this rather one-sided eulogy. Sure,  Gaviotas may well be a utopia, a 'good place', and so many of its  discoveries could well change the world, but please, Mr Weisman, let the  reader decide.	2000-07-28
US	50286611	R3D5OGIS9429EB	0804728399	528271446	Taoism: Growth of a Religion	Books	5	37	41	N	N	A key text on Taoism	A highly recommendable scholarly discussion of the origin and development of Taoism up to the 14th century CE. I have long been frustrated by the popular distinction between 'philosophical' and 'religious' Taoism, since  such a distinction could in principle be made of any religion. The danger  is that what westerners like they call 'philosophical' and what they don't  like they label 'religious'and then dispense with. The idea that some  metaphysical 'essence' of Taoism deserves to be taken seriously, while the  rituals and practice of Taoism do not is fundamentally bad scholarship.  Fortunately then, Robinet challenges the popular view head on by claiming  and showing that 'religious' Taoism is simply the practice of  'philosophical' Taoism. One without the other is senseless. This is an  important work, but for a general introduction to Taoism for the interested  beginner I would also recommend Martin Palmer's 'The Elements of Taoism'.  Palmer sems to be aware of and in sympathy with Robinet's position.	2000-07-27
US	50286611	R1RIMF7T0MWR5F	0415206200	406754968	The Tao of the West: Western Tranformations of Taoist Thought	Books	5	23	23	N	N	An antidote to the Tao of Pets	An intriguing feature of modern western culture has been its readiness to play fast and loose with the elements of Chinese religion without really understanding or caring how they fit together. From yin-yang coffee tables  to 'the Tao of Pets', this cultural appropriation is ubiquitous. J.J.  Clarke has given us  a timely and excellent discussion of the interface  between Taoist and Western religion and philosophy, which should not to be  confused with 'A Gathering of Cranes : Bringing the Tao to the West', to  which it is vastly superior. What is particularly interesting about  Clarke's work is its willingness to set the philosophy of Taoism firmly  alongside western philosophical thought, and to consider the implications  of their meeting. He begins by quoting Nietszche: 'what is needed is... new  philosophers', and goes on to suggest that some of this newness might in  fact be provided by age-old Taoism. While this is an academic and scholarly  work, its clarity and readibility is such that I would have no hesitation  in recommending it to undergraduate students of religion, or indeed to the  interested general reader. However, here is probably not the best place to  begin an understanding of Taoism as such. For this I would recommend Martin  Palmer's 'The Elements of Taoism' or Isabelle Robinet's 'Taoism, Growth of  a Religion'.	2000-07-27
US	50286611	R1QIRCVNHA529H	0385496338	428029467	Ten Thousand Sorrows	Books	3	2	7	N	N	A memoir written on the raw	I value this book as an insight into the pain parents can inflict on their children and as a tribute to the strength of the child to overcome adversity. Not many children have as harrowing a life as Elisabeth Kim, but  very many, like her, find their adult lives confounded by their upbringing.  To read this memoir is to encounter the writer's pain on the raw, but also  to discover the difficult road to hope and forgiveness. The last quarter of  the book seems to have been written quickly, or at least unreflectively. It  is clearly a product of therapy and perhaps all the better for it. This is  not the best written memoir ever, but what marks it out is the story the  writer has to tell. What we are offered is the memoir of a person in the  process of becoming whole, not of someone who has completed that process  and can now look at their life from a distance. The writer's obvious  emotional involvement is a strength.  The book also provides an insight  into the dynamics of Christian fundamentalism and of domestic violence.  Interesting how these two seem to go together...	2000-07-27
US	50286611	R14P6JM1JM0A3L	1862040400	742952400	The Elements of Taoism	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The best short introduction to Taoism	This is the best short introduction to Taoism currently available for the general reader. It has the great strength of considering Taoism as it is actually practiced in China, rather than constructing a fantasy version,  based on what westerners might like Taoism to be about. Palmer is well  qualified to discuss the ins and outs of the Taoist quest for immortality  and the rites of cosmic renewal, having long been a scholar of Chinese  language and religions. After reading Palmer's book, readers will feel more  able to cope with the also excellent but more difficult 'Taoism, Growth of  a Religion', by Isabelle Robinet, or perhaps J.J. Clarke's 'The Tao of the  West'. At any rate, they'll certainly know their Lao Tzu from their Chuang  Tzu!	2000-07-27
US	50286611	R1AMBO4CNA19GI	0070061807	589536782	Environmental Ethics: Divergence and Convergence	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Excellent introduction to key environmental debates	A very useful undergraduate level reader in environmental ethics. I use it in the course I teach in the UK. It would also make a good tool for self-teaching or for self-led small group study. For each chapter of  readings there are discussion topics, an exercise, suggestions for a debate  and a selection of further reading. The wide-ranging readings are carefully  chosen, edited and arranged into key themes such as morality, aesthetics,  ecofeminism and environmetnal ethics in society. The only other book to  cover similar material in a similar manner is Louis Pojman's 'Environmental  Ethics: Readings in Theory and Practice'. In my opinion they are equally  valuable, making it difficult (should it be neccessary) to choose between  them. From a British perspective they both lack historical depth. Botzler  and Armstrong's book has only two readings from the eighteenth century or  earlier (St Francis and Kant) but this can be supplied from elsewhere if  needed.	2000-06-22
US	50286611	R3IABJV1H4BNUG	0930031849	647833839	Forest Gardening: Cultivating an Edible Landscape, 2nd Edition	Books	4	35	36	N	N	A forest for every home!	Since reading Robert Hart's classic book I have seen forest gardens sustaining life in Mexico, Fiji, Australia, South Africa and Britain. Around the world perennial 'home gardens' have been grown for millennia.  Yet in temporate climates we seem to have forgotten how. This book has  inspired me to increase the diversity and productivity of my own small  garden in England, so far with good results. It is inspirational,  but it  is also practical. The Appendices offer suggestions for a variety of uses  and climates. I would recommend as a companion volume, Patrick Whitefield's  'How to Grow a Forest Garden' for further details of the practicalities.  But Hart's desciption of his own forest garden at Wenlock Edge stands alone  and is an invaluable guide to practical sustainability.	2000-06-21
US	50286611	R1EOGHQV65K66G	1856230082	816352734	How to Make a Forest Garden, 3rd Edition	Books	4	242	245	N	N	perennial paradise	In many climates around the world, forest is the natural state of vegetation. It grows without anyone's say-so. It takes no human effort at all for nature to be sustainable, diverse, productive, multi-dimensional,  and beautiful. However, most people's gardens, even food gardens, are  really none of these, despite large amounts of effort on the part of the  gardeners. So what would it be like to garden in tune with nature, to grow  a forest garden, with many of the features of a natural forest, and little  of the labour usually involved in gardening? Robert Hart pioneered this  approach to growing food sustainably, based on his long experience of  agro-forestry around the world. He applied his wisdom to his backyard and  wrote about it in the classics, 'Forest Gardening' and 'Beyond the Forest  Garden'. However, much of what Hart wrote was general and philosophical -  explaining the 'why' perhaps more than the  'how'. Patrick Whitefield has  produced this intensely practical guide to the 'how' of forest gardening,  starting from first principles and including all manner of precise details.  Whitefield is an experienced permaculture practicioner and teacher, and he  rightly places the forest garden in context  as a very useful component of  a larger system of sustainable living. On the strength of this book I am in  the process of transforming my standard suburban plot into a beautiful  forest garden, with apples, pears, cherries, raspberries, loganberries,  figs, redcurrants, perennial herbs and salads. It has proved to be an  invaluable and much thumbed manual, and an inspirational work. It is  directly applicable to temperate climates, and will be of use to those  living elsewhere too.	2000-06-21
US	50286611	R1ZNPNK9G5650R	0865474370	815189517	What Are People For?: Essays	Books	4	68	70	N	N	Berry at his best and most contrary	Wendell Berry is a farmer, poet, novelist and literary critic. It is as an essayist of enormous acuity, however, that he has become best known. What Are People For? is an important collection of essays (and two 'poem  essays') written between 1975 and 1989. The pieces here range from the  literary and reflective - meditations on the work of writers such as Edward  Abbey and Wallace Stegner, to the empassioned and urgent. 'Why I am not  going to buy a computer' is as cogent a rallying call for the neo-luddite  movement as could be imagined! Berry is an advocate of the local, the real,  the humane, that which is connected to the earth and which knows and loves  its place. Essays such as 'Writer and Region', 'The Work of Local Culture'  and 'Nature as Measure' display a deep-felt commitment eloquently argued.  While Berry writes of the politics of farming, Hemmingway, Twain and Blake  are never far away. Berry's aim is to recall his readers to the wasteland  corporate, industrialised America is becoming and to offer an alternative  vision, one of considerable hope. Too critical to be co-opted into the  ranks of the acceptable voices, too contrary and complex to be labelled  simply an 'environmentalist', Berry's writing is essential.	2000-06-03
US	50286611	RUDOET0D6GV4S	0385415443	77434560	The Ice at the Bottom of the World: Stories	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Macabre, hilarious, desperate, heartwarming	Macabre, hilarious, desperate, heartwarming, Mark Richard's collection is stunning in its stark juxtaposition of a gamut of emotions and moods. The prose is sparse, and all the more evocative because of it. The world  Richard depicts is itself sparse - his characters take their comfort where  they can. It is a world of immense cruelty and immensely harsh beauty.  There is pain in this washed out, painted over landscape of mudflats,  fairgrounds and burning shacks, but also a piercing redemptive vision. As I  read I found the first story superlative, then the next, then the next,  right to the end. Books may not change your life, but this one may well  leave its images searing your imagination for a long time. When I consider  the lack of attention Mark Richard has received for his fiction, I'm  tempted to believe there's no justice in the world at all, but then I  realise that for such a gem of a book to exist at all is a kind of secret  miracle. Witness it while you can.	2000-05-25
US	50286611	R46UZCOUODIS2	1860461611	766706152	Strandloper (Harvill Panther)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Unbearably beautiful	Strandloper is an almost unbearably beautiful book  which repays every moment of the fourteen or so years the author took to write it.(You can read about that process in The Voice that Thunders) Every word is in  exactly the right place, every phrase consummately crafted. As a result  Garner's novel reads like the purest essence of distilled prose. It may be  an acquired taste, but it it is truly worth the effort to acquire it. If  you are familiar with Garner's previous work you will know that he is  concerned with the impact of legend and myth on human life, and with the  links that exist across time and culture. In Australia, to say you've got  'Buckley's chance' is to hold out almost no hope at all. Garner's depiction  of William Buckley, convict, setting out across the Outback with only the  paper sketch of a compass to guide him is one of the most poignant scenes  I've ever read. How Buckley survives... well, read it for yourself.	2000-05-25
US	50286611	R3A1IIGLEHC205	155597158X	587294559	Cloudstreet	Books	5	9	13	N	N	The great Australian novel?	If there was a competition for the greatest Australian novel of the Twentieth Century, Cloudstreet would be in the running for the top prize. It is an indictment of the American publishing industry that it appears to  be out of print. Although Winton was shortlisted for the Booker Prize for  his later book, The Riders, Cloudstreet is the one that should have won it.  Happily, the dramatization of Cloudstreet has endeared it to a new  audience, but it it still worth saying:  Wake up world,  this is a classic  novel.	2000-05-25
US	50286611	R1CYVYGK6L3DPB	0446608386	298802765	Killing Me Softly	Books	3	16	17	N	N	A fine line between desire and abuse	I wanted to read this book because I knew that the author is actually two people - the British journalists Nicci Gerrard and Sean French. At first I was sceptical. How can two people write a novel that hangs together, I  thought. Well, they succeed and only a couple of chapters in I had  completely given up trying to guess who wrote what (an impossibility) and  was entirely engrossed in the plot. There is just the right mixture of  foreboding and surprise to keep readers turning the pages and burning the  midnight oil. I stayed up till one in the morning to finish this, and the  last half hour had my heart beating at twice its normal rate. Perhaps if  you read a lot of thrillers the effect wears off a bit, but whether or not  you read a lot of thrillers you should certainly read this one. A novel  dealing with sexual violence could easily become either colluding or  'preachy', but Killing Me Softly avoids both these traps. The only qualm I  have is about Adam's visit to Tara and Adele's parents. Why exactly?	2000-05-25
