US	50299530	R39EAM5KTCITVL	0374226687	760018040	Opening Mexico: The Making of a Democracy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Opening our eyes about Mexico	This is an excellent book for those interested in how difficult it is to establish a democracy in a county previously led by powerful dictators.  The details of Mexican politics are dramatically revealed by the authors, Julia Preston and Samuel Dillon, in a very readable account that concentrates on the period from 1968 to 2000.  An introductory chapter gives a preview of the finale by giving the details of the exciting election of Vincente Fox in 2000, as the culmination of a long struggle to change the leadership from the PRI (Partido Revolucinario Institutional) to that of an opposition party, the PAN (Partido Accion Nacional).  A second chapter gives an extremely brief account of the history of Mexican authoritarian leadership from Moctezuma and Cortes to the presidency of Gustavo Diaz Ordaz in 1964.  The unraveling of the PRI domination is described in vivid detail, starting in chapter 3 with the student revolt in 1968 and its murderous suppression.  The direct experience of these authors, as reporters for the New York Times assigned to cover Mexico, is evident in their lucid descriptions of the action and corruption of the institutions and their leadership up to the period of the presidency of Carlos Salinas de Gotari in 1988, which resulted a mixture of some good and some bad policies. After the mandatory 6 year term was finished for Salinas, the election of Ernesto Zedillo seems heroic in his strong belief that the institutions of democracy had to function without the excessive manipulation of a powerful President.  The account of this long successful struggle toward the beginnings of a representative democracy includes the details of murder, mayhem, robbery, corruption, drug lords, kidnapping, forgery, and fixed elections, in exciting detail not often achieved even in a modern murder mystery novel.  This is living history and a lesion to us about the need to preserve our democracy, that also was not perfect in the beginning.  It shows us the pitfalls for new democracies and how difficult it is to establish them. For those readers who want some more background of earlier Mexican history, the book \\"Mexico: A Biography of Power\\" by Enrique Krauze is recommended as very enjoyable reading which prepares you for this book.	2005-08-28
US	50299530	R25OHC4XMV5R16	0375406263	800952527	Earth: An Intimate History	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Down Into Earth	This is a wonderful book.  As Senior Paleontologist at the Natural History Museum in London, Professor Richard Fortey has an area of great expertise that overlaps into Geology.  He has a talent for teaching in an entertaining and painless manner. As you read this book, you learn a lot of material, often presented to you in the context of an interesting story.  Importantly he develops in you an understanding of plate tectonics while telling you about the great controversies in Geology.  Plate tectonics answers many questions about the natural phenomena that control the world where we live. In only 405 pages, you get a terrific trip around the world, from the Alps to the rocks in Central Park in New York City, from volcanoes to earthquakes, from England to Japan, India, Africa and North and South America.  When you read this book, be aware that under the inside cover in the front of the book is a map of the around-the-world trip that Richard Fortey takes you though as a summary \\"World View\\" in the last chapter of his book.  Also be aware that under the back cover is a list of the names of the major geological periods of Earth, with the millions of years they cover, and with the major phenomena that mark these periods. Occasional quick reference to this table is very helpful for orientation as you go on this marvelous exploration with Professor Fortey.  The descriptions of places are colorful and include important people, past and present. Throughout you feel the love Richard Fortey feels for this science.  He has written two related books, of which this one might be considered the third in a trilogy, but this one stands on its own.  I do think that I enjoyed this book greatly because I had read previously his books \\"Life\\" and \\"Trilobite!.\\" However, I think that you can get a terrific experience out of reading this book by itself, and can enjoy the other ones more in the future.	2005-02-21
US	50299530	R1C936A227VPUT	0670033448	9843603	The Inner Circle	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Inner Circle - Inner Thoughts	Since several previous reviewers have detailed the story line, I will not repeat them but would like to add several thoughts obtained by reading the book and by attending a discussion session lead by Boyle himself. This book is fiction and is entertainment, and quite well done in both areas. Boyle has to combine his research on the actual knowledge about Alfred Kinsey as recorded in the archives at the Institute with his own fantasies about several aspects of the investigation of human sexuality.  It is difficult at times to tell what is based on history and what is based on Boyle's imagination. The chief question raised by the book is whether or not human beings can conduct such sex research in a dispassionate manner. To project the images of the scene, Boyle has to show you the world as seen through the eyes of a character John Milk, who is not very articulate or very sophisticated or experienced in sexual matters. Boyle does very well at projecting that character, who is well described by the very articulate and humorous Boyle.  The dominance of the inner group of researchers by Kinsey is also well presented in a manner fitting the late 40's and 50's in midwestern USA. Boyle presents the shyness of the characters and their lack of detailed knowledge about sex in a manner that fits well with the era described. Kinsey's two books on male and female sexual behavior were landmark descriptions that prepared the way for the more knowledgeable world we live in today. Where does love or fun fit into such a story, read it to find both answers. For those of us to remember this period in history, it is a thoroughly entertaining and ambitious novel by Boyle.	2004-10-21
US	50299530	R3LZMDGC0J60VZ	037550849X	273510908	A Certain Somewhere: Writers on the Places They Remember	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Marvelous Little Book	In approximately 242 short pages, this fine book presents essays about the experiences of 30 authors who wrote vignettes about places that were very special ones in their lives.  They were written between 1996 and 2002 for Preservation magazine,.  These places vary from the faraway ones, such as Maui or the Al Qahira section of Cairo, down to the nearby ones, such as a stone wall on a Vermont farm.  Each of the essays is quite short and written in a tight style that is direct and fun to read.   The marvelous details in some of these stories give you a new way of looking at the familiar things and places in your own life.  Many of the authors have passed through New York or New England and have interesting insights into these areas.  The book is enjoyable on several levels.  You not only get a tour of the place itself but also you also gain insight into the psychological meanings of the place to the author.  It is the kind of book that you should enjoy at a leisurely pace, such as one essay per day, to savor the contents and let them sink into you.	2003-03-02
US	50299530	RYSUNXUJKJEX	0618036687	845438550	The Weather in Berlin: A Novel	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	An Interesting Trip	In this 305 page book the author gives an insightful look at the culture of the old East Germany as it has been changed after the reunification of Germany.  Characters are presented representing the ones who enjoyed their old isolated lives under communist rule and are contrasted with persons who follow the capitalist ideologies.  The time period of the book is the winter of 1999 and the scenes reflect that troubled time in the reunification process.  This is a pleasure to read for those who have traveled in Germany in Berlin and the surrounding countryside.  A familiarity with the locations and cultural atmosphere certainly enhances the pleasure. However, a map of Berlin and the surrounding area certainly would be a help to persons not very familiar with the locale.  Another source of pleasure for me was the view into the mind of an American movie director, specifically how he has to be able to imagine all he ideally wants and then to try to reproduce that ideal with the fallible humans at hand.  The narrative of the book wanders in and out of reveries by the principal character Dixon Greenwood as his imagination works with a story that he has to direct as part of a German television series.	2003-01-25
US	50299530	R2BBPXYGDLZ75I	0805063749	664898594	The Milagro Beanfield War	Books	3	10	12	N	N	An Infectious Good Time	To be the 4000th reviewer of this book and to say something worthwhile is a challenge.  However, Mr. Nichols is having such a good time writing this book that his enthusiasm for the characters and his humor are infectious in a good way.  He faces several challenges.  In the first third of the book, the author has to populate the stage with a whole town full of interesting characters. He does this by scattered anecdotes about each of them that give the reader a flavor for the persons, and their interactions with other characters.  During this time, the reader does wonder where all this is going, since the story line seems a bit fractured.  Mr. Nichols does do a  masterful job of creating a whole town for you.  Then in the middle third of the book, the characters begin to be involved with the main thrust of the book.  The last part of the book, the characters really begin to move around and a partial resolution of sorts occurs.  Many authors work hard to create a single believable character. Mr. Nichols does this for a whole town, and is to be praised for that.  The book is very funny but my criticism is that it is mainly situational humor, such as in a Bugs Bunny cartoon or a &quot;sitcom&quot; on television. The humor in the language is limited and is mainly ribald or in the use of Spanish words.  My other criticism is his extreme use of the run-on sentence style.  My English teacher would have failed me for such sentences!  Granted, it puts a lot of information before you and moves the story along.  However, whole sentences ramble into paragraphs.   These are minor criticisms.  If you  relax and &quot;go with the flow&quot;, it is good fun and may show you a new perspective on land development and water rights in the Southwest also.	2003-01-06
US	50299530	RU07O27SCOJQ5	0446365440	797224586	Alburquerque	Books	3	27	27	N	Y	Boxing versus Maturation	This book,copyrighted in 1992,precedes the trilogy about detective Sonny Baca beginning with Zia Summer (1995), and then Rio Grande Fall (1996), and the latest Shaman Winter (1999).  I read Alburquerque after these three novels and enjoyed them all very much, but I feel that it would have been better to read Alburquerque first before the Sonny Baca novels. This is because some of the characters are presented in full detail in Alburquerque and play a major part in the later novels.  It did feel strange to read Alburquerque in which Sonny Baca plays a very minor role.  Here the center of attention is Abrn Gonzlez who undergoes rapid growth of character in relationship to his search for his biological mother and biological father, his relationship to his adoptive parents, and his discovery of his true love Lucinda. Those who find boxing disgusting should still read this, in which the boxing is handled with grace and drama.  The story is written in a direct style with great warmth. You find yourself really caring about the characters.  The 293 pages fly by as the book plunges into its whirlwind ending.	2002-10-21
US	50299530	R2DGB1XJCHLQ3W	0156006200	130483186	The Crystal Frontier	Books	2	6	7	N	N	A Fragile Crystal	Carlos Fuentes is a major author in Mexican literature, with notable successes in history and fiction. In this book of 266 pages, he introduces us to the lives of a spectrum of persons living on both sides of the Mexican Border, particularly with Texas.  He speaks with authority about the historical injustices involved in the American conquest of Texas, the War on Mexico, and our continuing hostile dependency on each other.  The Americans need cheap labor and the Mexicans need jobs.  In nine vignettes (chapters), he gives us a glimpse into the lives of various persons on both sides of the border.  The Mexicans come North to go to school legally or to do menial work illegally or legally.  The message in this book is quite clear.  We want the Mexicans when we need them to do tasks cheaply that our own labor force will not do.  We do not want the Mexicans when they become dependent on us and stress our social system for such things as health care or education.  Carlos Fuentes points to the type of economic slavery that this creates, not much better than the era of slavery which Abraham Lincoln fought against.  Fuentes achieves some balance in showing also the internal corruption of Mexico, and the many ways that they miss opportunities to improve themselves.  The vignettes are funny, sad, passionate, and sometimes lacking in clear focus.  Some characters fade into and out of various chapters creating a fabric of impressions about the life on the border.  The reader has to relax and let the images flow past, with the poetic inserts by Fuentes about the various conflicts.  This is clearly not his best book but in some ways it perhaps reveals more of his own most heartfelt conflicts which accumulated while he spent many years as a child and young adult in the USA.  It is a particularly good book to read while you are traveling near the Mexican border and can get your own impressions of this SCENE.	2002-08-15
US	50299530	R17FRZHO69F24V	0446608017	193211456	Shaman Winter	Books	4	5	10	N	Y	Dream World Mystery	This is the third book in the series by Anaya involving his heros Sonny Baca and Rita Lopez and their battles with Sonny's opponent Raven.  To appreciate this book, you really need to start at the beginning and follow the story through the various phases.  The first book &quot;Zia Summer&quot; sets the stage with the principal characters in the context of the New Mexico Pueblo Indian culture.  The second book &quot;Rio Grande Fall&quot; takes you through the battles of Sonny and Raven in the context of the multiple layers of culture (Native American, Hispanic and Anglo) in the Rio Grande Valley.  You get a wonderful tour of the cultures in each of these books.  This third book &quot;Shaman Winter&quot; is the height of the mystical battle and the Pueblo Indian cultures interpretation of dreams.  In this book there also is more of a direct message to the Nuevo Mexicano people that your existence is destroyed by those who rob you of your dreams and who rob you of your historical context.  &quot;History belongs to those who write it.&quot;  Certainly this is a powerful message to the Hispanic people who must feel acutely the loss of their heritage in the Anglo culture and the denial of their dreams of a homeland and a peaceful existance.  One of the most powerful moments in the book is the depiction of the Long Walk of the Navaho people and the impact on their women.  This is conscience-raising but not distracting from the story line.  The story is fascinating in the mystical interpretation of dreams.  You have to be willing to suspend disbelief and go along for the ride to enjoy this story.  If your are able to do so, the journey is a wonderful one, full of twists, and goes off like the finale of a July 4th fireworks display in all the plots and subplots at the dramatic ending.  Note that the ending leaves room to look forward to another book in the series.	2002-05-27
US	50299530	R1EHZLH7N634LQ	0684195895	11369661	The Arabian Nights: Their Best-Known Tales	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Flights of Fancy	This version of &quot;The Arabian Nights&quot; is a compilation of ten of the most popular of the stories contained in the original&quot;Tales of a Thousand and One Nights&quot;.  The original contains two hundred and sixty-four stories.  A lovely touch to the Barnes and Noble edition is that they include eight illustrations by Maxfield Parrish.  While these stories have been the subject of movies for children, the vocabulary is not exactly for children in the language in the book.  The original stories were translated from Arabic into French by M. Galland, a Professor of Arabic in Paris, and then from French into English in several editions.  The first manuscript is from 1450 or earlier and the French translation in 1704 became instantly popular.  The flights of fantasy are absolutely spectacular and cannot be reproduced in movies as well as the words can do in the readers own brain.  Castles, jewels, strange beasts, cannibals, powerful kings and queens and lovely men and women fill the stories that take place in China, India, Persia, Arabia, and on various islands nearby. The Barnes and Noble edition from 1993 contains the following tales: The Talking Bird, The Fisherman and the Genie, The Young King of the Black Isles, Gulnare of the Sea, Aladdin, Prince Agib, The City of Brass, Ali Baba, Codadad, and Sinbad. They are wild exotic stories, that are fun for adults to read also.	2001-12-24
US	50299530	R2X9NVQTRSBHJA	0446604860	592286482	Rio Grande Fall	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Magical Mystery Tour	This second book by Anaya, regarding the adventures of his detective hero Sonny Baca and his companion Rita, has wonderful contrasts between the three layers of culture in the Rio Grande valley in New Mexico.  We are shown the modern American culture in the setting of this novel during the Hot Air Balloon Festival in Albuquerque, where we encounter modern life and modern villains and some heros as well, even among that modern phenomenon of a homeless population.  The Hispanic culture is included in the cantina, the bar, knife fights, and gun battles in the predominantly Spanish barrios in parts of Albuquerque, as well as in the Church of San Felipe de Neri.  This book is most appealing in the poetic beauty that Anaya brings to this complex tale by carrying the story deeper into the magical thinking of the mysterious culture of the Native Americans.  Anaya brings the magical fantasies in slowly but reaches a grand climax in the heroic battle of good versus evil as if it were out of a Navajo legend.  It is great fun to go on such a fast tour through these different cultures.  In the end, it leaves you with a greater appreciation of the unreal beauty of the Native American cultures.  It is helpful, but not essential, to know a little bit of Spanish to understand the brief interchanges in Spanish between some of the characters.  This use of Spanish is at a basic level and never too taxing, since Anaya often explains the action also in English.	2001-12-07
US	50299530	R3OCE73T2OTLVV	970051255X	526632699	Manual Del Guerrero de la Luz	Books	2	3	6	N	Y	Aphorisms++	Paulo Coelho gives an interesting presentation of a group of aphorisms best suited for young men going out to &quot;conquer the world.&quot;   He has placed his wisdoms into the context of a young man learning to hear the truth amidst a haze of sound.  He presents in short form a code of chivalry for the modern youth.  He draws on a mystical framework for presenting ideas from Christian, Moslem, Hindu, and Buddist philosophies.  In sum he presents more Eastern than Western ideology.  His definition of a &quot;guerrero de la luz' comes most clearly on page 100 when he says that a guerrero de la luz is a person who makes mistakes, asks questions, and because he continues to seek meaning to his life, he will eventually find it.  On page 149, he further presents that the end does not justify the means because there are no ends.  We do not know from where we came or to where we will go, so only the means are important.  I read this in the Spanish edition, which preserves the beauty of the language.  The Spanish is easy to read and is suitable for a young reader.	2001-11-19
US	50299530	R15XIXYI5ZQJ3Y	0446603163	757081294	Zia Summer	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Taste of the Southwest	Sonny Baca is a private detective investigating a cult murder of his cousin Gloria.  The story weaves together a fabric using the old Native American, the Hispanic, and the Anglo traditions that are so juxtaposed in Albuquerque, and most of the Southwest.  Anaya keeps us involved and entertained well by the cast of characters from the beginning to the dramatic climax.  He shows us the good and the bad aspects of these traditions.  In the end the reader is left with a greater appreciation for the natural beauty of the Southwest and a greater feeling for the traditions and beauty of both the fantasies and realities of these indigenous peoples.  It helps to know a little Spanish to catch some of the brief phrases used, so a Spanish dictionary is helpful at times.  However, the story never taxes the Anglo with Spanish since most of the words are either very common expressions or are explained in the text (except for the curses!).  Hopefully, we can look forward to more about Sonny (and Rita) in the future.	2001-10-15
US	50299530	ROURJD49VQRDY	0192833375	349276307	Three Major Plays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Fascinating Lope de Vega	This is a great presentation of three of the best Golden Age Spanish plays, which reveal psychological complexity in the context of rapid action. This translation of the plays is excellent in keeping the feel of their fast pace while giving graceful phrases to the characters. The three plays are first the most famous &quot;Fuente Ovejuna&quot; (which is a formula for civil disobedience against the unjust rulers), followed by &quot;The Knight from Olmedo&quot; ( a story of love, heroism, and jealosy which reveals how justice was enacted in that era), and finally &quot;Punishment Without Revenge&quot; ( a story of fiery love and how it burns its victims). The only thing I wished was that this could have been a bilingual edition with the Spanish on one page and the English on the facing page so we could correlate the beauty of the two languages. However, it is really a delight to be able to read a modern translation of these works.	2001-08-28
US	50299530	R2R9XKIQYO9I6Y	0451203607	192801376	The Judas Judge (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Tangled Web of Lies	This book is a fine example of McGarrity's style.  He is direct, descriptive, and the pace of the action accelerates to a great ending. In this book, he adds some richness to the emotional life of his main character, Kevin Kerney, with family ties he discovers, and more inner emotional life.  The main story has many characters, like a Dickens novel, that give you a slice of life on the seedy side in New Mexico. There are multiple suspects, lots of false clues, and lies by the suspects that must be unravelled by Kerney.  He does a fine job of wrapping it up to a stunning conclusion. It is also fun to follow the action on a map of New Mexico that shows the mountains and topography.	2001-07-15
US	50299530	R14KRRU4Z5L4H3	0826314384	335961454	Tierra Amarilla: Stories of New Mexico / Cuentos de Nuevo Mexico (Pasó por Aquí Series on the Neuvomexicano Literary Heritage) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	A great bilingual read!	Tierra Amarilla (&quot;Yellow Land&quot;) is a small town in northern New Mexico about 15 miles south of the town of Chama, near the border of Colorado and New Mexico.  It is a land of high mountains, beautiful lakes, and grassy plateaus.  Perhaps the &quot;Yellow Land&quot; refers to the bright yellow color of forests of aspen trees in autumn. The winters are severe.  Sabine Ulibarri lived there as a child and brings to us in this book some of the characters and stories that he knew from this lovely and isolated community of predominantly Catholic Hispanic families.  New Mexico is the only officially bilingual state and we are fortunate that the University of New Mexico Press gives to us a bilingual edition of these stories so that we can read them in Spanish, or in an English translation, or in both languages.  This book is excellent for young boys 15 years or older and for adults as well.  It is a compilation of six works by Ulibarri, the first five of which are concerned with the description of the characters and the customs and injustices of the small town life.  The last work is the longest in the book and explores the psychological depths of its main character.  Much of the book involves the relationship between a boy or young man and his father or father-like figures in the town.  The first story &quot;Mi caballo mago&quot; (My Wonder Horse) is a wonderful narrative of a boy's quest for manhood in the capture of the beautiful white horse that no-one else had caught.  His love and respect for the horse and his quest win him the respect of his father.  The second story &quot;El relleno de dios&quot; (The Stuffing of the Lord) presents the beloved priest Father Benito and his humor.  The third story &quot;Juan P&quot; deals with the cruel injustice, of which a small town is capable, when shame and misfortune strike a fellow resident.  The fourth story &quot;Sabelo&quot; (Get That Straight) presents the tale of a wonderful old man of keen wit, whom the bees never sting, and why.  The fifth story &quot;La fragua sin fuego&quot; (Forge Without Fire) introduces us to the town blacksmith, much admired for his strength and kindness by the young boys of the town.  He makes a misjudgement in love; and the story returns to the theme of the unkindness and intolerance of small town society.  The sixth story is a long one, occupying half of the book's 167 pages.  It is a rich and complex story of a psychological battle between a son and his father, with a good description of a psychotic break, and with a searing conclusion.  The Spanish is more difficult to read, and contains some idiosyncrasies of New Mexico Spanish, but a good English translation is always on the facing page, which allows the reader to enjoy both languages.  The story also probes the depths of a relationship of a writer to his work, leaving you wondering how much of this rich psychological exploration is autobiographical.	2001-07-04
US	50299530	R168KSR6LIMPXO	025206903X	437543550	Eight Dramas of Calderón	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Bravo Calderon!	Bravo Calderon! for his masterly plays, although it is difficult to find the poetry in this translation by Edward Fitzgerald.  The eight plays included in this book are: The Painter of His Own Dishonour; Keep Your Own Secret; Gil Perez, the Gallician; Three Judgements at a Blow; The Mayor of Zalamea; Beware of Smooth Water; The Mighty Magician; and Such Stuff as Dreams Are Made Of. The translations are antique from Edward Fitzgerald (1809-1883) and are reprinted here.  However, they provide the only translations available for some of the minor plays that display the wonderful psychological complexity in Calderon's work.  The concept of the Spanish Code of Honor causes many difficulties and conflicts that ring true to varying degrees in our own societies today.  One must ask how can Fitzgerald present 8 plays in 429 pages when for example Honig presents 6 plays in 444 pages?  The size of the print is slightly smaller but a careful comparison reveals that Fitzgerald grossly leaves out parts of the plays &quot;that seemed to mar the breadth of general effect.&quot;  The page count reveals significant omissions as far at the poetry of the plays is concerned. One is stunned to read the opinion of the translator in his &quot;Advertisement&quot; which is near the beginning of this compilation.  In his defense of &quot;so free translations&quot; he pleads that he did not &quot;meddle with any of the more famous plays&quot;, and that &quot;whether real or dramatic Spanish passion, is still bombast to English ears and confounds otherwise distinct outlines of characters.&quot; Fitzgerald goes on to state that parts of the plays were &quot;not Calderon's better self, but concession to private haste or public taste.&quot;  The worst is &quot;I have, while faithfully trying to retain what was fine and efficient, sunk, reduced, altered, and replaced much that seemed not; simplified some perplexities, and curtailed or omitted scenes...&quot;  Hopefully, we will be able to recruit amore modern translator who will capture the passion and poetry to produce a more enjoyable version in English.  In the meanwhile, we can try to see through the twist given by Fitzgerald.	2001-05-13
US	50299530	R3YXCNO8X5VDJ	025206903X	437543550	Eight Dramas of Calderón	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Bravo Calderon!	Bravo Calderon! for his masterly plays, although it is difficult to find the poetry in this translation by Edward Fitzgerald.  The eight plays included in this book are: The Painter of His Own Dishonour; Keep Your Own Secret; Gil Perez, the Gallician; Three Judgements at a Blow; The Mayor of Zalamea; Beware of Smooth Water; The Mighty Magician; and Such Stuff as Dreams Are Made Of. The translations are antique from Edward Fitzgerald (1809-1883) and are reprinted here.  However, they provide the only translations available for some of the minor plays that display the wonderful psychological complexity in Calderon's work.  The concept of the Spanish Code of Honor causes many difficulties and conflicts that ring true to varying degrees in our own societies today.  One must ask how can Fitzgerald can present 8 plays in 429 pages when for example Honig presents 6 plays in 444 pages?  The size of the print is slightly smaller but a careful comparison reveals that Fitzgerald grossly leaves out parts of the plays &quot;that seemed to mar the breadth of general effect.&quot;  The page count reveals significant omissions as far at the poetry of the plays is concerned. One is stunned to read the opinion of the translator in his &quot;Advertisement&quot; which is near the beginning of this compilation.  In his defense of &quot;so free translations&quot; he pleads that he did not &quot;meddle with any of the more famous plays&quot;, and that &quot;whether real or dramatic Spanish passion, is still bombast to English ears and confounds otherwise distinct outlines of characters.&quot; Fitzgerald goes on to state that parts of the plays were &quot;not Calderon's better self, but concession to private haste or public taste.&quot;  The worst is &quot;I have, while faithfully trying to retain what was fine and efficient, sunk, reduced, altered, and replaced much that seemed not; simplified some perplexities, and curtailed or omitted scenes...&quot;  Hopefully, we will be able to recruit a more modern translator who will capture the passion and poetry to produce a more enjoyable version in English.  In the meanwhile, we can try to see through the twist given by Fitzgerald.	2001-05-13
US	50299530	R3SYFLRGQD7IPC	188276305X	35852653	Calderon de la Barca: Six Plays	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Vivid Translations	This book is an excellent compilation of six plays translated by Edwin Honig and published between 1961 and 1993.  In the translations there is a sense of the need to retain the poetic character of the plays while presenting  them in a language easily understood by a  modern audience.  The plays included are: Secret Vengance for Secret Insult, Devotion to the Cross, The Mayor of Zalamea, The Phantom Lady, Life is a Dream, and The Crown of Absalom.  All of the plays follow the theme of the Spanish Code of Honor and what psychological complexities it creates, particularly as the characters are torn by love versus the need to maintain one's honor.  It is not hard to see that in our own culture there are traces of the patterns of thinking so brilliantly elaborated in these plays.  The language is vivid and the action is propelled by the words, while the poetic moments give us insight into the thinking of the characters.  While there are many wonderful moments to mention in each of the plays, overall we must be grateful to Honig for his bringing for our enjoyment some of the less common plays.  To appreciate some of the skilfull contributions of Honig to this effect, one should compare a few phrases first in the Spanish and then in several translations:<br />At the beginning of the Mayor of Zalamea:  SPANISH:  ¡Cuerpo de Cristo con quien    Desta suerte hace marchar    De un lugar a otro lugar    Sin dar un refresco!<br /> HONIG: I say, damn his bloody hide   for forcing us to march   this way from town to town   without a break!<br />FITZGERALD: Confound, say I, these forced marches from place to place, without halt or bait; what say you friends?<br />In the greatest psychological and philosophical play by Calderon:  Life is a Dream:  <br />SPANISH: ¡Ay mísero de mí!  ¡Ay infelice!   Apurar, cielos, pretendo,   ya que me tratáis asi,   qué delito cometí   contra vosotros naciendo   aunque si nací, ya entiendo   qué delito he cometido:   bastante causa ha tenido   vuestra justicia y rigor,   pues el delito mayor del hombre es haber nacido.<br /> HONIG: Heavens above, I cry to you,   in misery and wretchedness,   what crime against you did I commit   by being born, to deserve   this treatment from you? - although   I understand my being born is crime enough, and warrants your sternest judgement, since the greatest sin of man is his being born at all.<br /> Coleford:Oh, wretched me!  Alas, unhappy man!   I strive, oh Heav'n, since I am treated so,   To find out what my crime against thee was   In being born; although in being born   I understand just what my crime has been.   Thy judgement harsh has had just origin:   To have been born is mankind's greatest sin.	2001-05-13
US	50299530	R34W1KRF30LE7P	0374146837	308815901	Electric Light: Poems	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	In a Mellow Mood	In this collection of poems Heaney goes back to his childhood memories of discoveries and fantasies.  Some are amusing fantasies that are fun and possibly not unique to Heaney. For example in &quot;Out of the Bag&quot; he dwells on the idea that little children are constructed from infant parts carried into the delivery room in the doctor's black bag.  Other poems are about remembering childhood discoveries, such as the magic of electricity in &quot;Electric Light&quot;, which ends the book.  Heaney has fun in &quot;Audenesque&quot;, in which he writes &quot;Its measured ways I tread again/ Quatrain by constrained quatrain, / Meting grief and reason out/ As you said a poem ought.&quot;  Some of the poems should be read aloud to catch the sounds of the words, particularly the wonderful neologisms.  Overall the mood is mellow and lacks the passion of the earlier works, such as those published in the collection of selected poems from 1966-1996 called &quot;Opened Ground&quot;.	2001-04-28
US	50299530	R2C6APJS3BLYZG	0375403612	546930858	The Santa Fe Trail: Its History, Legends, and Lore	Books	3	13	16	N	Y	Following the Trail	This is an excellent book for those curious persons who would like to know how the Santa Fe Trail developed.  David Dary has written a real history book that is very pleasant and charming while it gives you a lot of facts about the commerce on the Trail.  Dary begins with the history of the Spanish exploration of the New Mexico area, the establishment of Santa Fe as a focus for Spanish control over northern expansion, the effect of the Mexican Revolution against Spain, and the increasing interaction with and fear of the Anglos from the East.  The commerce between towns in Missouri and Kansas with Santa Fe is described in detail.  The importance of Santa Fe as the site for exchange of American goods for Mexican silver money is explained.  The eventual decline of Santa Fe and the Santa Fe Trail becomes clear in the descriptions of the American military takeover of Santa Fe, the treaty of Guadalupe-Hildago, and the shift of transportation from wagon trains to the transcontinental railroad. The book has some amusing anecdotes along the way describing the colorful characters that played a part in the folklore about the Trail.  The more recent history from 1900 to 2000 is given less space.  The rebirth of Santa Fe as a tourist center is briefly explained but what seems missing is how this town of about 67,000 people has become now the third largest art market in the United States.  New York and Chicago have larger art markets but are enormous cities by comparison.  There is no mention of the influence of artists,such as Georgia O'Keefe.  Perhaps this is because this book is less a history of Santa Fe itself as it is a excellent view following the Trail across Missouri and Kansas to Santa Fe.	2001-02-13
US	50299530	RSK9HMM2S2RJ2	0375406255	709736392	Trilobite!: Eyewitness to Evolution	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Romp among the Trilobites	This is an excellent book from the point of view of the elucidation of the life of 300 million years of trilobites as well as the view of the discovery process in science.  Fortey gives a lucid account, that is funny also, of his involvement in his life work on trilobites.  He describes the details of the structure of these invertebrates and how they evolved over time. Their remarkable diversity of structure allows them to be used for the elucidation of the evolutionary process as well as the construction of maps of the early world, which Fortey explains in charming detail. In the focus on the trilobite there is less said about the simultaneous evolution of the predators of the trilobites, such as the toothed fishes, and the eventual extinction of the trilobites.  This is a great gift book for the young biological scientist and for the old ones also who love the process of discovery.	2001-01-15
US	50299530	R2EC6C167MUXEL	0670891770	746289941	A Friend of the Earth	Books	4	2	3	N	N	My wife doesn't understand why I liked this book!	T. C. Boyle divides the events of this novel into two general streams of thought, one taking place in 1989 to 1991 and the other projected forward to the imagined world of 2025-2026, mainly in  California and Oregon.  The action alternates between these two streams.  There are frequent flashbacks in each of the general time periods.  This approach fractures the time line considerably but Boyle is an excellent short-story writer who fills each episode with his views and humor and manages to pull the story together.  The principal character Ty Tierwater has his own character but at times speaks with the voice of the author.  I was privileged to hear Boyle read from his book one evening and to hear how he approached this story.  His rapid-fire and jocular reading put a life into the characters that is possible to miss if you read this book without a sense of humor.  You do not have to like the characters or to identify yourself with them.  The point is to understand the characters and their struggles and to learn and to have fun doing so.   Boyle paints a surreal picture of his characters and scenes and evidently enjoys going &quot;over the top&quot; with his dramatic images.  Water  is beyond wet and dry is beyond bleak.  An example ( on page 225) of the global-warming  bleakness of 2026: &quot;This is the final blow, the last nail in the coffin of my useless life on this useless planet, but I'd be a liar if I said I wasn't expecting it.  Still, it strikes fear in my heart - fear of inanition, an uncertain future, and the inevitable end.  I'm lost. I'm hurt. I've got no income and no place to go and my only remaining ambition at this juncture is to be one of the old-old..... and then I'm following my feet across the bleached yard with its browning devil grass and the twisted, gummy clots of flesh that used to be walking catfish scattered round like dark pellets thrown down out of an angry sky.  A mutant lizard (two heads, one foot) slithers under a rock to escape my shadow.  My throat is dry.&quot;   Likewise joy, anger, and peace in the forest are projected in the boldest manner until the French classic end.	2000-11-18
US	50299530	RT445VQ6N88BY	015600559X	430935828	The Reader's Companion to Ireland	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Ireland Past and Present	I read this book in preparation for a trip to Ireland and am writing this review in Galway, near the end of my trip.  This is pertinent since the area around Galway is the focus of several essays in the book.  This book is a compilation of essays from 19 different authors.  The essays are arranged by time periods, starting with Arthur Symons' impression of the Aran Islands in 1896.  Later a follow-up essay on the Aran Islands is by Tim Ryan in 1972. Similarly there are three essays about Galway/Connemara areas by Harold Speakman (1924), H.V. Morton (1930), and Robert Gibbings (1940s), with follow-up essays by Joyne Coyne (1980) and David McFadden (1990s).  The value of this collection of essays is to show how Ireland has changed or not changed over time.  The last essay in the 1990s leaves a large gap to the present 2000 because of so many changes that have taken place in the last 10 years in globalization and increased prosperity in Ireland. The book is also a good introduction to several great travel writers, whose books may be worthwhile reading in their entirety, if you find you like their style.  Especially enjoyable to me were H.V. Morton's description of Galway, Chiang Lee's view of O'Connell Street in Dublin (1948), Heinrich Boll's closely-focussed view of Irish life (1954), Elizabeth Shannon's recounting of her experience as the wife of the American Ambassador (1977), and David Wilson's hilarious description of Irish music.  I recommend the book, but it does not help with daily travel details.	2000-10-14
US	50299530	R246KID8MZLN34	1570980969	134909534	Secret Rose Love Poems of W B Yeats	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Great Introduction	This is a very fine introduction to the life and love poetry of W.B. Yeats.  The book begins with an extensive, 25 page biography of Yeats that  includes even his distressful discovery of masturbation at age 15, his  hidden love for his distant cousin Laura Armstrong, and his frustrated love  for Maud Gonne, the major character of his love poems.  He proposed  marriage to the cold-but-beautiful and very politically minded Maud, who  refused him and married a soldier.  The introduction gives examples of how  this most important relationship was reflected in Yeats' poems.  Yeats  first sexual love was with Olivia Shakespear (while estranged from her  husband) and was a brief affair. The end of this episode intensified his  loss of Maud Gonne and intensified the passion in his poems also.  After  Maude's separation from her soldier husband, Yeats proposed again to Maude,  was refused again, and then he did the creepy thing of asking Maude to  allow him to marry her daughter Isuelt!  At age 52 he married the 26 year  old Georgie Hyde Lees, whom he called &quot;George,&quot; and had a  daughter and a son. Yeats exploration of Irish folklore under the guidance  of Lady Gregory, and his exploration of mysticism with Georgie are also  included in this focussed introduction.  The 48 short poems published here  are lovely, touching, and often sad, but have beautifully sculpted lines.  For example,(on pg.31)&quot;She laid them upon her bosom, Under a cloud of  her hair, And her red lips sang them a love-song, Till stars grew out of  the air.&quot;  Illuminating notes (34 pages) are in the back of the book.   The best way to read this book is first to read the introduction, secondly  read each poem followed by the notes on each poem, and finally to reread  the poem if you want to catch the subtleties.	2000-09-06
US	50299530	RR0PRKCKH711E	0801863236	862390230	Jerusalem Delivered (Gerusalemme liberata)	Books	4	21	26	N	Y	Dark and Beautiful	Anthony Esolen does it again to bring us a powerfully translated and  edited poem, originally in Latin, now for the modern reader. This is a dark  and brooding poem that was written by Torquato Tasso when he was slowly  going mad.  His fixation was on the subject of the first Crusade to free  Jerusalem from the Moslems, which was led by Godfrey of Bouillon and the  peers of France.  This was a subject of Tasso's interest since he was an 18  year old boy,who published a poem about Rinaldo, one of the key figures in  the current story.  Tasso eventually extensively revised &quot;Gerusalemme  liberata&quot;, removing its amorous portions to publish &quot;Gerusalemme  conquistada&quot; at age 49.  The darkness of the original poem is tempered  by the love stories, but it remains a violent story with a concentration on  the horrors of war and of love also.  For example, in the middle of the  story of an intense battle, Soliman, the powerful Turkish sultan, sees his  young page cut down: &quot;Sees how the trembling eyes so gracefully shut,  and the neck falls limp, as if in sleep; so sweet the whiteness of his  face, so sweet the pity his dying semblance breathes, that deep in his  then-stony heart something grew soft and the spring burst through his  anger: he must weep.  You, Soliman weeping...who stood by while your realm  was destroyed, and your eyes dry.  But when he sees the enemy's sword still  slick and steaming with the blood of the young lad, pity gives way to anger  boiling quick and all the tears within his heart are dead&quot;(Canto 9,  #86-87).  The contrast of darkness and jumping-out vividness in the story  cause Esolen to refer to Tasso as a Caravaggio of poetry, an apt  comparison.  Although the story gets off to a traditionally slow start, it  builds to a fever pitch and you suddenly are hit by what makes this a great  poem.  The poem is divided into 20 songs or Cantos for a total of  396  pages, complemented by an erudite Introduction and a discussionat the end  of the book about the use of allegory, a list of the cast of characters,  and 47 pages of notes that help to put the story into literary perspective.   I recommend just reading the poem first, and then consulting the notes,  since sometimes too much of the overall plot is revealed in a brief  description of the characters or in the notes.	2000-08-22
US	50299530	R1UJ70ZJ7U691E	080185055X	642267428	On the Nature of Things: De rerum natura	Books	5	50	54	N	Y	Poetic philosophy	How incredible it is to read a poet and philosopher from 60 B.C. writing on the philosophical derivation of the idea that atoms must exist, that they have some spin on them, and that there is conservation of matter in  nature!  These thoughts about &quot;atomism&quot; would have been lost  except for the fact that Lucretius presented them in a very good Latin  poem.  Although credit is given to Leucippus and Democritus for starting  the idea of atomism, Epicurius and Lucretius were strong exponents of these  ideas.  The poem utilizes common observations to illustrate that the world  about us is simply a combination of atoms and void. This had strong  implications not only for the demise of the Roman and Greek gods and  goddesses but also for how humans should live in the real world, and how  they largely create their own misery.  Lucretius loves life, looks  straightly at it, speaks strongly against the fear of death, and promotes a  rational calm life in which friendship is very important.  The poetry is  wonderful and powerful in itself. Two quotes (I,62 and I, 140) in the early  part of the poem speak clearly to the modern reader: &quot;When before our  eyes man's life lay groveling, prostrate, crushed to dust under the burden  of Religion (which thrust its head from heaven, its horrible face glowering  over mankind born to die) one man, a Greek, was the first mortal who dared  oppose his eyes, the first to stand firm in defiance.  Not the fables of  the gods, nor lightning, nor the menacing rumble of heaven could daunt him,  but all the more they whetted his keen mind with longing to be first to  smash open the tight-barred gates of Nature&quot;...&quot;And yet your  virtue and the hoped-for pleasure of a delightful friendship urge me to  persevere in my work, to watch through the calm nights, seeking choice  words, the song by which at last I can open to your mind such dazzling  light that you may see deep into hidden things.&quot;  This is a great and  astonishing poem, powerfully translated by Anthony Esolen.  Lucretius did  not conceive of the idea that parts of atoms, i.e. electrons, might spread  rapidly through the body, so his poem gets more labored in Book III where  he  deals with the relationship between the body, mind, soul, and spirit.   However he did think the soul had to be made up of the very smallest atoms  that could pass quickly to all parts of the body.  If the modern reader  substitutes &quot;electrons&quot; where he mentions &quot;atoms&quot; in  reference to the soul, then Lucretius is not far off the mark.  The book  has a 21 page introduction and 49 pages of notes at the end to help the  reader understand the place of this poem in the history of ideas.  It  should be required reading for biological scientists and physicians.	2000-07-01
US	50299530	R1Q7YUV9LF8W64	080185055X	642267428	On the Nature of Things: De rerum natura	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	Poetic philosophy	How incredible it is to read a poet and philosopher from 60 B.C. writing on the derivation of the idea that atoms must exist and that there is conservation of matter in nature!  These thoughts about &quot;atomism&quot;  might have been lost except for their inclusion in a very good Latin poem.   Although credit is given to Leucippus and Democritus for starting the idea  of atomism, Epicurius and Lucretius were strong exponents of these ideas.   This poem utilizes common observations to illustrate that the world about  us is simply a combination of atoms and void. This had strong implications  not only for the demise of the Roman and Greek gods and goddesses but also  for how humans should live in the real world, and how they largely create  their own misery.  Lucretius loved life, speaks strongly against the fear  of death, and promotes a rational calm life in which friendship is very  important.  The poetry is wonderful and powerful in itself.  Two quotes  from the early part of the poem speak clearly and dramatically to the  modern reader: &quot;When before our eyes man's life lay groveling,  prostrate, crushed to dust under the burden of Religion (which thrust its  head from heaven, its horrible face glowering over mankind born to die),  one man, a Greek, was the first mortal who dared oppose his eyes, the first  to stand firm in defiance.  Not the fables of the gods, nor lightning, nor  the menacing rumble of heaven could daunt him, but all the more whetted his  keen mind with longing to be first to smash open the tight-barred gates of  Nature....And yet your virtue and the hoped-for pleasure of a delightful  friendship urge me to persevere in my work, to watch through the calm  nights, seeking choice words, the song by which at last I can open to your  mind such dazzling light that you may see deep into hidden things.&quot;   This is a great and astonishing poem, translated powerfully by Esolen.    The book has a 21 page introduction at the beginning and 49 pages of notes  at the end to help the reader understand the place of this poem in the  history of ideas.	2000-06-26
US	50299530	R1ZR3WS49ALL2R	0140443118	527659315	Orlando Furioso: A Romantic Epic: Part 1 (Penguin Classics) (Pt. 1)	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	The Web of Ariosto	This is a wonderful flight of fantasy that is full of magic castles, horses that fly (hippogriffs), and such imagination and humor that you never cease to be entertained by it all.  You may wonder like I did that:  If this is &quot;Part One&quot;, where is part two?  I was unable to find  any such continuation.  You have to just enjoy this marvelous tale for what  it is.	2000-06-12
