US	50304758	R3V5PHCYKQLNE1	1570431434	374089143	A Modern Prophet Answers Your Key Questions about Life	Books	1	8	12	N	N	There is NO validity here, Eckankar is based on delusion	Eckankar was created by Paul Twitchell around 1965. Twitchell died in 1971 and Darwin Gross took over by being recommended to the Eckankar board of directors by Twitchell's widow whom he later married. In 1981 Gross turned the leadership over to Harold Klemp. Klemp has been the leader ever since and has written many books, but few have any real spiritual substance or value. Generally, if you have read one of Klemp's books you have read them all. This is not to say that there aren't different stories (and some are inspiring), but the same Eckankar dogma is repeated over and over again and again. Actually, there is some repeating of stories from book to book. Many books, such as this one, also carry many testimonials by new or long-time members of Eckankar. It seems that Klemp tends to use monthly initiate reports, which seem somewhat deluded or embellished in order to pad the pages. Klemp has nothing more spiritual to show than L. Ron Hubbard, Ford Johnson, Michael Owens, David Icke, or Mark Phillips. One has to accept the distortions, lies, and belief that this man (Klemp the Mahanta) is the greatest savior ever, and not just on earth but on all of the inner and outer worlds of GOD. If one is gullible enough to buy into these distortions of truth and logic then one has no common sense or discrimination. Critical thinking is needed when reading this material. Don't be so desparate to believe that this snake oil salesman has the answers for you. Believe in your own Self and be your own Master (outer and Inner) instead of another's follower!	2005-06-18
US	50304758	R7OJ5R2GVBMQ4	0938294512	862292741	Other Worlds, Other Lives : Discover Your True Cosmic Origins	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Author has no creditability	I have read \\"In My Soul I Am Free\\" that the author, Brad Steiger, wrote on the life of Paul Twitchell. The book on Twitchell was pure fiction and Steiger played the role of publicist. Twitchell fed Steiger fictional information that was never verified or researched by Steiger, and Steiger basically entered into a conspiracy with Twitchell to defraud the public. It would seem that Steiger writes a book every-other month or so. Once again, this author has no creditability what-so-ever with me. He has distorted the truth so much in the past that I don't see why the general public can trust anything or any subject coming from this author of fiction passing itself off as truth! There is a difference! Not everything is illusion! This is what the discerning mind is for... to discover your own Truth over the deceptions of others that would prevent you from discovering ITS value and worth.	2005-03-21
US	50304758	R2Z3YB3GQYJQ9R	0966016548	799034482	Trance: Formation of America	Books	1	31	86	N	N	Pure Fiction,  Delusion, and Insanity to Con the Gullible	First, I would recommend that you GOOGLE this book, although, there is a good 0ne Star review on this site that covers the book very well. I believe these people (Mark, Cathy, Kelly)live somewhere in Alabama at this time. Mark Phillips is definitely a Con-Man, and Cathy O'Brien is definitely Insane. I would suspect that Mark is also somewhat psychotic and criminal too. Their daughter Kelly was supposed to be under the influence of mind-control too, but was suddenly healed in order to have a normal pregnancy and birth. Now, however, she has relasped ($$$) for some reason and is a walking talking advertisement for the CON (their books). Ever see the movie the \\"Sting?\\" Ever read L. Ron Hubbard? It takes uniquely unbalanced and deviant personalities to write such a book as this and similarly unbalanced individuals to believe in it (being gullible and prone to fear and negativity helps too... the glass is half empty mind set). But, were there mind control experiments by the government... YES! Are there subliminal messages out there... YES! Fast food restaurants even have certain colors to \\"inspire\\" you to eat fast and then leave in order to make room for more customers. Are there conspiracies out there... Yes! Even within families, corporations, religions (churches), condo associations, etc., etc. So what! That's life... be aware of it, but live with it! People are people! Some are nice, some are not, most live in different realities, and, therefore, some are insane according to typical mental and social standards. The question to ask is, \\"Where do you fit in with all of this.\\" Use some common sense, discretion, and discernment! There is no validation to the outlandish statements made in this fictional piece of crap. But if you believe in Big Foot, ET, and that the movie \\"Men In Black\\" are all actual accounts of reality then this book should be your cup-of-tea. Enjoy the delusion!	2005-02-21
US	50304758	R3Q1XI1K33YGD9	0892540168	978813407	Deathing: An Intelligent Alternative for the Final Moments of Life	Books	5	3	5	N	N	I Would Liked To Have Heard About  Paul Twitchell	How did Paul Twitchell die? Weren't you (Anya) with him? Why not tell this story of deathing? Confessions of a God Seeker by Ford Johnson also tells God-soul how to prepare for death or vice versa which is the same.	2004-07-28
US	50304758	R2S56ENI8NZ8N7	1570431493	817237953	The Art of Spiritual Dreaming	Books	1	7	16	N	Y	More Dogma From Eckankar and Klemp	James Davis wrote one of these 5 star reviews of this book, but has since dropped out of Eckankar, and has told me that he has changed his opinion of Klemp and of Eckankar. This book contains a lot of dogma and expects the reader to believe in the masters created by Paul Twitchell in 1965. Rebazar Tarzs is one such &quot;Master&quot; that is actually Twitchell's former Master Sri Kirpal Singh of Radhasoami Satsang. Rebazar is a corner stone for Eckankar because without him there is no validity of Mahantaship for the two former leaders and the current leader Twitchell, Gross, and Klemp. <br />Klemp plants the seeds of Eck masters in the mind of the reader and gives techniques so that the reader will &quot;experience&quot; for themselves &quot;proof&quot; of their existance. Actually, the mind will create constructs (images and concepts) and will use filters to interpret reality as it is willing to see and experience It. One does not need a mahanta or master outside of their own higher self or God-soul to experience the realities of the higher planes of God or of ALL THAT IS. This is only one thing, of many, that is hidden from the reader. The Mahanta of Eckankar seeks spiritual dependency for its members through complete surrender for protection, guidance, and reliance in all matters and on all planes. Therefore, spiritual freedom only becomes a catch (22) phrase to the members of this innocent looking religion.<br />Also, if you have already read one book by this author you can save your money on this one. His books are all alike... no new info here.	2004-04-27
US	50304758	R1H8B2JM6IXEXB	0881550973	189366078	The Secret Language of Waking Dreams	Books	1	2	7	N	N	A Subtle Approach To Eckankar Dogma	On the surface the book seems to be tidbits from well known authors and fellow Eckankar members (the author is an Eckist). There is some interesting waking dream information, but there are also many distortions. The author gradually slips Eckankar dogma into the stories and comments, and increases the dogma in the final few pages.<br />I found the piece on &quot;The Pseudomaster&quot; to be rather ironic since Harold Klemp (Avery's master) is the real pseudomaster. The piece on &quot;The True Reality&quot; was also very far from being &quot;True&quot; or &quot;Reality!&quot; The waking/sleeping dreamer will see mental constructs of &quot;masters&quot; presented to them by Eckankar as descriptions and visual images. At times, however, ones own higher self (God-soul) will present a friendly and trustworthy construct to communicate with the perceiver/dreamer as a means to assist with spiritual growth (Golden-Tongued Wisdom). The problem with Eckankar is that all trust and surrender is placed with another (the Mahanta or Dream/Inner/Outer Master) which leads to spiritual dependency rather than spiritual freedom.<br />The piece on &quot;Child in the Wilderness&quot; is also a distortion because Harold Klemp was in a state of imbalance way before the events on the &quot;bridge.&quot; He jumped off the bridge, stripped at an airport, and was arrested. His choice was to either go to jail or to a mental lock-down unit and klemp chose the mental lock-down. He was released when he learned how to &quot;play the game.&quot; I think he is still playing games when it comes to covering up the truth about Twitchell, Eckankar, and the phony Mahanta. The author must still be under Klemp's spell in order to write such a subtle and yet a deceptively innocent Eckankar spin of waking dreams. Be cautious though... your sleeping dreams will be affected as well.	2004-04-26
US	50304758	R2OEOWK9TH1GAY	1570430489	921717154	The Shariyat-Ki-Sugmad Book I: Discover the Ancient Scriptures of God's Love For You	Books	1	17	28	N	N	A Holy Book for the Eckankar Religion/Cult of Klemp	This book has a lot of dogma concerning the &quot;Mahanta&quot; who is considered the highest consciousness on Earth. The Mahanta (Harold Klemp) is the Outer Master, the Inner Master, the Dream Master, the Word, the Lord of Hosts and is the right hand of the SUGMAD. The &quot;Mahanta&quot; is greater than the &quot;God&quot; of all religions and not just the prophets and saviors of these religions! The &quot;God&quot; of the religions of the world, according to the Shariyat, resides on the 2nd or 4th Plane and a High Initiate (H.I.) in Eckankar begins on the 5th Plane. The &quot;Mahanta&quot; resides on the 14th Plane (Plane = Heaven). Sugmad is greater than the Mahanta, however. Twitchell also created the linage of Eck (Eckankar) Masters in order to give validation to his own position. He mentions a number of these masters in this book. Eckankar was actually created by using the book &quot;The Path of the Masters&quot; by Julian P. Johnson and by using his former spiritual path of Radasoami Satsang which teaches the Audible Life Stream. Twitchell claims he was initiated by Rebazar Tarzs, but his former master was really Kirpal Singh who he refers to as Sudar Singh. Twitchell quit his former spiritual path around 1965, and no longer referred to Kirpal Singh in 1966. Twitchell mentions Sudar Singh and claims he was the Living Eck Master, but since Twitchell left Radasoami he was not initiated by Sudar (Kirpal). Therefore, Twitchell creates the Eck master Rebazar Tarzs in order to be initiated and to establish a lineage of masters to give validity to his incredible claims. Klemp has continued the tradition of deception to insure his power over his blind followers. Been there... done that... time to move on!<BR>Try reading &quot;Confessions of a God Seeker&quot; by Ford Johnson to get even a better perspective of this book and of the three Eckankar masters... Twitchell, Gross, and Klemp.	2004-04-14
US	50304758	R2KAGLNFA0Z70V	1570431108	402405978	Eckankar: Ancient Wisdom for Today	Books	1	25	33	N	N	A Dishonest View of a New Age Cult	On the surface this seems like a very good little book that has a lot of info on Eckankar, and a new perspective on the spiritual purpose of life. There are many truths presented in this book, but there is also an underlying dishonesty. This dishonesty is why I gave the book a one star rating... sorry. What is NOT mentioned is that the &quot;Mahanta&quot; (the Inner Master who is also the Outer Master, i.e. Harold Klemp) is the main focus of this new religion. Prior to Klemp taking over, in 1981, Eckankar was considered a &quot;Spiritual Path.&quot; Now, Eckankar has guidelines and rules which are written and &quot;suggested&quot; that all members follow or else. The &quot;else&quot; can be a demotion of initiations, sanctions on duties, or a shunning by other members. The Mahanta demands that the Eckist (member) have total surrender to him, and absolute reliance on him for guidance and protection of all things, in all situations. This means that mental attention is to be placed on the Mahanta (Klemp), and on his words and image, at all times and even during sleep so that one &quot;dreams&quot; of the Mahanta as well. Eventually, the member (chela/student) becomes completely dependent and attached to the Mahanta which is the real goal prescribed through the Eck (Eckankar) teachings. Anything else is just secondary to this main goal. One (Soul) is also told that this reliance will continue throughout all initiations regardless of how many one receives. By the way... Eckankar sees the &quot;God&quot; of all religions as being or residing on the 2nd (Astral) Plane/heaven or on the 4th (Mental) Plane/heaven. Therefore, a High Initiate (5th Plane or higher) is higher in consciousness than the &quot;God&quot; the rest of the world worships (let alone the prophets or saviors)! Also, on the surface, there appears to be a loving respect for others by Eckists (members) and by their leader (Klemp), but this is not really the case. Members of Eckankar really see themselves in aexclusive club and above others spiritually and in consciousness. However, they (Eckists) are encouraged to share their teachings through &quot;coin&quot; and through some form of &quot;service&quot; which includes being a Vahana (missionary) or an Arahata (teacher). As I said before, these facts are just some of the more important things that are not mentioned in this easy to read little book.	2004-04-14
US	50304758	R23LNW4MIF8WMB	0972883584	517134930	Confessions of a God Seeker: A Journey to Higher Consciousness	Books	5	19	27	N	Y	Reveals the Cult of Eckankar and a New Spiritual Paradigm	I find the two 1 star reviews of this book to be rather silly, and 1 dimensional. Eckists are really frightened of this book because it shatters the illusion of the world of Eckankar that was created for them and by them. <br />The one reviewer complains that the author is too &quot;cerebral&quot; and yet one must use the mind for discernment. If one wants to judge on the basis of emotion or using the heart center then they will not go beyond the Astral Plane. One must use a conbination of faculties including nudges, common sense, logic, feelings, and knowingness. Also, I had &quot;personal experiences&quot; before, during and after Eckankar. I only just now discovered that the Masters and Mahanta were actually my own Self as God-soul. Therefore, true spiritual freedom is now experienced on a level never before attained!<br />Another reviewer seemed to think that if one finds fault with Eckankar that something must be wrong with them rather than Eckankar. To pray, contemplate, or meditate on a daily basis is a process of dying daily it is said. Everyone has this ability, but one must have a pure heart and those involved in the Eckankar cover-up cannot be pure. People who try to use the excuse of it's only &quot;human errors&quot; are also overlooking the Eckankar spin that these three eck masters (Twitchell, Gross, and Klemp) are supposed to be the most spiritually advanced supermen on the planet or in all universes and Planes! Even to take the standards down several levels would show these three to be a pitiful selection! The reviewer goes on to say that if this (Eckankar) is made up then it's the best story ever and that he has fallen in love. Well, some people love to be in love, and need to have something greater to believe in than the Truth of who they really are (God-soul). <br />It is easy to put someone on a pedestal as a hero or savior than to take responsibility for your own Mastership in this here and now! People don't need priests (clergy) or mahantas tocontinue the lies that attach them to dependency rather than the independency of spiritual freedom. Twitchell Westernized Radasoami Satsang and used &quot;The Path of the Masters&quot; by Julian P. Johnson as his guide. Ford Johnson points this out in his book and I have verified this information for myself. Take your time reading this book. It's better if you also take the time to verify the info given and contemplate on these revelations. I also highly suggest that this book be re-read after several months for further clarity.	2004-04-10
US	50304758	R5MW6MU87IGFF	1570430322	75864147	The Flute of God	Books	1	15	27	N	N	Twitchell Lies and Plagiarizes To Create A New Religion	This is a 1969 copyright and Twitchell was still fine tuning his new creation of Eckankar. Actually, there are some interesting concepts and factual information contained within this book, but Twitchell does not give his sources. Instead, Twitchell plagiarizes from other sources like \\"The Path of the Masters\\" by Julian P. Johnson. Twitchell is actually Westernizing the teachings of Radasoami Satsang and making himself the Living Master (mahanta). Since Twitchell was not given the leadership role (or even close to it) by his former Master Kirpal Singh (not Sudar) he decided to make himself the Master of all Masters. Twitchell accomplished this by creating a lineage of (Eck) Masters and had one of these (Rebazar Tarzs) initiate him as Mahanta (a title Twitchell created). By the way, Eckankar sees the \\"God\\" of other religions as a 2nd or 4th Plane (heaven) God. The position of Mahanta resides on the 14th Plane and the one true \\"God\\" for members of Eckankar (Eckists) is called SUGMAD. All in all this book is not a bad read, but one has to be always alert to Twitchell's game plan. This is why I gave the book only one star... just too much dogma and distortion... sorry.	2004-04-07
US	50304758	R1TAAF5NA11MT7	1570431302	153645522	The Slow Burning Love of God (Klemp, Harold. Mahanta Transcripts, Bk. 13.)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	More Cult Dogma From Eckankar & Klemp	This book contains the transcripts from talks by Harold Klemp (the outer/inner master and leader of Eckankar). Many of the stories are rather \\"cute\\" and one dimensional and do not include other perspectives, especially that of others involved. Klemp talks a lot about \\"God\\" but does not mention to the public about the true view from the \\"eck\\" teachings. The \\"God\\" of all other religions is seen as either a 2nd or 4th Plane (heaven) God. Klemp is seen as being on at least the 14th Plane as the \\"Mahanta.\\" Even \\"High Initiates\\" in Eckankar begin at the 5th Plane. These \\"Planes\\" are seen as levels of reality, heaven, or consciousness. However, the big catch is that nothing is possible but through the total reliance and surrender to the Mahanta (Klemp). The \\"Divine Being\\" in Eckankar is referred to as SUGMAD, but this word is hardly ever used since it would require a more detailed and truthful explanation. The reliance and surrender to the Mahanta is subtly mentioned from time to time throughout the book. The holy books of Eckankar (Shariyat-Ki-Sugmad 1& 2, Twitchell's fictionalized & plagiarized work) are much more open about this information. <br />This book is also contains some redundant and basic information about Eckankar which resembles Klemp's other books both within and outside of the \\"Transcript Series.\\" If you've read one then you've pretty much read them all. <br />Unless you're a die hard member of Eckankar with money to burn I would suggest saving it for another book (...)	2004-03-27
US	50304758	R2TFNGSF7R60EA	1570431361	259326935	Stranger by the River	Books	1	5	22	N	N	Another Dishonest and Self-Promotional Work	Actually, if the reader can get beyond the Eckankar dogma and Twitchell's self-promotional tactics this book can be a good read! Just substitute your own Higher Self or God-soul in place of Rebarz. Twitchell created the character of Rebazar Tarzs in order to claim initiation into the order of Vairag Adepts (found in his previous spiritual path of Radha Soami Satsang). He was no longer a chela of Kirpal Singh (his real former Master) and thus created Eckankar and a lineage of Masters through plagiarism and lies. Twitchell claims his old Master was Sudar Singh, but why was Twitchell not appointed as mahanta/Master when Sudar died if this was true? Who took Sudar's place then? Thus, the need for the Tibetan... Rebazar Tarzs to take the place of the imaginary Sudar. Anyway, as you can see Twitchell's accounts of these meetings with the \\"Tibetan\\" now become suspect.	2004-03-19
US	50304758	R1TMWBCEN7CND6	1570431353	511697674	Our Spiritual Wake Up Calls: When God Calls, Are You Listening? (Mahanta Transcripts Book 15)	Books	1	3	12	N	N	Deceptive From the Start	As a former higher initiate and long time member of Eckankar I have decided to give a new and true perspective of what is being conveyed in this book.<br />First, Klemp is not being truthful when he talks about &quot;God.&quot; Eckankar believes that the &quot;God&quot; of all of the other world religions is a 2nd or 4th Plane God. The Mahanta (Klemp) resides on the 14th Plane of consciousness and is seen as the highest consciousness on Earth or any Plane! The name for the Divine in Eckankar is called SUGMAD. <br />Also, Klemp talks of spiritual freedom and complete surrender to the Master (Mahanta), but discourages Self-Mastery and Spiritual Freedom for Higher Initiates. There are many contradictions in the Eckankar teachings (a creation of Paul Twitchell) as the current Master Mahanta (Klemp) tries to have it both ways by saying one thing and promoting another.<br />Caution! Don't think with your heart when approaching this religious teaching. Most Eckists are nice and mean well, but they usually close their minds and even fear opposing views or different perspectives. This advice is for those who may contact a member of Eckankar. The bottom line is that Spiritual Seekers (Truth/God Seekers) or God-soul are equal to all other God-souls, and that there are no masters above other God-souls as Klemp would have us believe.	2004-03-13
US	50304758	R2F0PGGZIX0JZ2	1570431183	366177655	35 Golden Keys to Who You Are & Why You're Here	Books	1	7	14	N	N	Another Spin on Dogma and Mahanta Worship	First, the reader must know certain facts that are not revealed to the public. Eckankar sees the \\"God\\" of all other religions as a 2nd or 4th Plane \\"God.\\" The author is a 7th (higher) initiate and is, therefore, on a higher Plane of consciousness than the \\"God\\" that the religions of the world worship! The Mahanta, that the author mentions throughout the book, is Harold Klemp and he is seen as having at least a 14th Plane of consciousness (the highest on Earth and of all Planes or levels of Heaven). The Divine in Eckankar is called SUGMAD.<br />The author continues to promote Eckankar throuhout the book and ends with the promotion of Paul Twitchell the creator of Eckankar. The problem with this is that Twitchell plagiarized and fictionalized most of the Eck (Eckankar) teachings and created the role of savior and Godman for himself.<br />The author points out that you are Soul and shows various ways of discovering this and proving this for yourself. However, on the surface this all looks very open and honest and heart felt. But, there are other secret teachings that are hidden from the public until the student is more and more indoctrinated in the \\"art\\" of surrender to the Master. Outer questions are discouraged while one is taught to read the Shariyat (the Holy Book) and take questions to the \\"Inner\\" realms. <br />When using the techniques know that You (Soul or God-soul) are the true Master and are even the one who advices, guides, and protects You. Self-Mastery is not truly encouraged or taught in Eckankar and therefore words like \\"Spiritual Freedom\\" are not possible due to a complete dependency upon the Master/Mahanta.	2004-03-13
US	50304758	R3VHF2A56L6UP0	1570430012	202005680	The Spiritual Exercises of Eck	Books	1	45	60	N	N	The Dogma is Thick - Use Caution! Shift Paradigns!	The spiritual exercises can be useful only if the reader uses caution and a shifting of paradigns. This is a caution I would give to anyone who is approaching a religious teaching, therefore, keep your eyes and ears open. Continue to use your heart, mind, and common sense in a balanced manner when approaching a new spiritual or religious teaching. Also, know that Eckankar does not truly teach Self-Mastery or Spiritual Freedom, but rather a dependency upon the Mahanta (Inner Master, Outer Master, Dream Master, etc.)through a complete surrender of faith in the Master and the silence to any real discussion of conflicting points of view. Generally, the influence of the &quot;Master&quot; is very subtle and takes place more and more over an extended length of time. <br />When using the spiritual exercises in this book simply substitute your own Higher Self or God-soul in place of the Mahanta, Inner Master, or any Eck Master. Remember that the &quot;Eck&quot; is actually the Chi, Holy Spirit, Spirit, Force or God-Force or whatever you want to call this Divine Essence which permeates all life. Remember, these techniques and claims are not unique to any religion, and that there is no power that one Soul has over another. Mastership can be had by you in this lifetime, but not through Eckankar or any other religion. Spiritual growth takes place outside of the &quot;box&quot; of religion.	2004-03-13
US	50304758	R650TQRKGJQMN	1570430551	48475193	Hello Friend: A Journey in Eck	Books	1	1	5	N	N	A Distorted Look At A Fake Master	It is interesting that Patti Simpson thought it was funny when Twitchell would falsely fill out official government documents and lie about his age and birth place. Twitchell was expressing passive/agressive behavior, anger, and fear by behaving in such ways. This book contains, basically, the propaganda that Twitchell fed to Simpson, and if one rereads the book knowing that Twitchell is a con man rather than a god man then you will see it as well. Twitchell was a big fat liar and Patti Simpson was either duped or part of the scam!	2004-02-11
US	50304758	R13UMI6JFDTS0Y	1570431957	354635904	The Language of Soul	Books	1	4	35	N	N	Truth Mixed In With Eckankar Dogma	There are truths within this book, but the lies far out weigh the truth. The Mahanta (Harold Klemp) is also known as the &quot;Word&quot; and &quot;Lord of Hosts&quot;. He sits at the right hand of SUGMAD (not God). Actually, the God of all religions (except those of heart and emotion; 2nd Plane God) is a 4th Plane God. The Mahanta, of Eckankar, exists on at least the 14th Plane (Heaven). It would be nice to know these little details when Klemp is spinning his web. The book sounds nice on the surface, but there is just sooooooo much more that is left out of the recycled information in this book.<br />Save your money. If you've read one book by this author you've basically read them all!	2004-02-07
US	50304758	R1N0ROX95A1TAM	0881550590	859271129	Stranger by the River	Books	1	2	14	N	N	The Lies of Twitchell Gently Presented	I admit... this book has some fundamental truth regarding Self. However, the imagined spiritual master, Rebazar, is a creation of Twitchell's in order to give validation to a linage of eck masters. The creative validation gives those after Twitchell (Klemp) the authority as Mahanta (master of all masters, and greater than God). As I said, the book reads very well (except for the Thee and Thou), but beware of the underlying dogma which is presented in a subtle and gentle manner.	2004-02-07
US	50304758	R335EAVDKMIN04	0914766910	598480253	The Far Country	Books	1	7	12	N	Y	The ... of Eckankar Revealed	This book will probably not be offered in the future unless it goes through a drastic rewrite. This is a 1970 copyright when Twitchell was still fine tuning his new creation... Eckankar. On pages 16-19 (Fourth Printing, 1974) Twitchell places the Mental Region (Plane) before the Causal! Actually, it seems Twitchell had yet not named this other region as the Causal as yet. He gives it the name of Daswan Dwar. The colors Twitchell associates with these planes are off as well. He corrects this in later works. It's amazing the amount of confusion that Twitchell creates, and is clear that the current leader (Klemp) is having to do an intensive cover-up of the lies of Twitchell. Unfortunately, this means that this book and other evidence will soon become unavailable.	2004-02-07
US	50304758	R3R1JDI9HCIEQ4	1570431426	199918304	A Cosmic Sea of Words: The Eckankar Lexicon	Books	1	3	13	N	Y	This Book Clearly Shows Twitchell's Distortions of Truth	I can prove that Twitchell made it all up and so can you! Twitchell took Hindu words and people from history and changed the spelling of words and names to create his own religion and lineage of Eckankar (Eck) masters. 1st you need a copy of \\"The Path of the Masters\\" by Julian P. Johnson. In my 11th edition on pages 356-357 is the word AHANKAR (listed in the Lexicon on page 5). \\"Path\\" states that there are two definitions to this word. One definition is, \\"... the faculty of the mind which gives us the power of awareness of the self, self-differentiation, the I-ness.\\" The second definition is, \\"... But the abnormal exaggeration of this faculty becomes ahankar, which is vanity or egoism.\\" Twitchell created the word \\"ahankara\\" to use the second definition of the word that Julian P. Johnson used in 1939! I can go on and on. Let me give another example. Aluk in the Lexicon has one meaning, but in \\"Path\\" the definition even mentions another creation of Twitchell (the Ancient Order of the Vairagi). \\"Aluk is the sacred word that the Vairagis, the adepts of India, exclaim as the chant. In the word Aluk are expressed two words, Al, meaning from, and huk, truth; both words together express God, the source of all truth.\\" [pg. 491]<BR>Let me give another example to show the Lies behind Eckankar and all of the books written on this scam of Twitchell. In this distortion Twitchell changes one letter in the word found on page 10 of the Lexicon. \\"Mind is divided into four parts, called by the Masters, Antashkarans. This means inner modes of action. We may say it has four attributes, faculties or qualities. These four divisions of the mind are named: Manas, Chitta, Buddhi, and Ahankar.\\"[pg.327,\\"Path\\"] With just a little research one can prove Ford Johnson's and David Lane's claims. Eckankar, while having some redeeming qualities, is based on lies and built using distorting information from other spiritual paths.	2004-01-27
US	50304758	RDLZVXJPDLWPS	1570431671	731126337	How to Survive Spiritually in Our Times	Books	1	6	22	N	Y	Paul Harvey Must Be An Eck Master	Harold Klemp seems to love Paul Harvey in this book. Klemp is ultra conservative and also holds the fear monger Richard Maybury in high esteem as well. Klemp espouses his anti social security, anti welfare, anti Medicare/Medicad, anti lawsuit, anti investiment attitudes. One wonders why? Without lawsuits medical mistakes would be the number 1 killer in this country instead of number 8. There are no criminal laws protecting the public from medical mistakes! Klemp, of course, has great health care, great retirement, and a big guaranteed income. Parts of this book was difficult for me to read (the narrow minded views) when I was a loyal High Initiate, but now I see it as a bunch of dogma with empty promises. Let's face it, why would Masters have a hierarchy? I guess that spiritual freedom, Soul=Soul, and Self Mastery (along with initiations) are just carrots to be forever dangled. Just keep in mind service and silence while renewing that yearly membership, and keep hoping that OZ (Klemp)won't reveal his true idenity. Twitchell's illusion lives on!	2004-01-26
US	50304758	R2GHTSJOXD25DT	087516109X	67934207	The spiritual notebook	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Twitchell Claims "he got it all wrong" In This Book	In Difficulties Of The Living Eck Master Twitchell claims that \\"he got it all wrong\\" in one of his books that was released in early 1971. This is that book! Get this book before Eckankar buys them up or revises them! Twitchell uses the word \\"Eckankar\\" to cover everything spiritual. \\"Eck\\" is used as only a shortened version of Eckankar in this book, and is not a separate term for Holy Spirit (pgs.13-14). There are also many interesting statements which contradict present day teachings, dogma, and tenets of Eckankar (pgs.19,21-23). Examples of these are: \\"The true ECK Master is a Sat-Guru appointed by the Supreme Deity we know as Sat Nam, ruler of the Soul, or fifth plane, and all worlds above and below it... it is Sat Nam who appoints each Sat-Guru on the various planes throughout the spiritual hierarchy.\\"[pg.19] \\"The Sat-Guru is the Son of God.\\" [pg.20] \\"The Mahatmas can be divided into sereral classes... Third is the Sant, or the Adept... He is the inner and outer Master of whom I have spoken so much... Fourth is theECKshar, or the supreme Sant.\\" [pg.21] \\"A Sant has reached Soul perfection for Self-Realization within the Order of the Vairagi Masters. The Mahanta is the highest one can go in these lower worlds. He is a god man, appointed by the divine SUGMAD for the purpose of giving the Nam, the Word, of the initiation... He also serves as a guide.\\" [pg.22] \\"Many men have become gods and many gods have become men. But the Mahanta is the living Light, in the tradition of the ancient sun gods of Asia.\\" [pg.23] So, as you can see, this was the accumulation of an earlier work in progress that Twitchell had printed before going back to do a re-edit. This book was begun in the early years when Twitchell first dreamed up the Eckankar scam. As I pointed out... grab up this 1971 copyright (10th printing 1983) before the revisions of another printing. Darwin Gross (Mahanta, Living Eck Master 1971-1981) was a purest and did not discontinue or revise (edit) Twitchell's work. Iwould not trust Klemp to do the same since he has already discontinued much of Twitchell's early writings already, and has heavily edited many of his tapes.	2004-01-26
US	50304758	R3T7QW13QCDN1J	0685267970	671057891	The Making of a Spiritual Movement : The Untold Story of Paul Twitchell and Eckankar	Books	5	11	20	N	N	A Great Start to Expose the Les Behind ECKANKAR	This work contains an early glimpse into a fraudlent spiritual teaching (religion) named Eckankar and created by Paul Twitchell. Lane, being an outsider and not having access to the same material as long term members still does an exceptional job at uncovering lies, distortions, and motives for Twitchell's scam. Lane has an impossible task in sorting out the years of lies and self promoting distortions by Twitchell in hopes of revealing specific details and facts. However, much of this information is not precise, but still clearly points out the deliberate attempts of Twitchell to mislead, misdirect, and distort truth. The bottom line is still clearly perceived by the reader, while Lane shows and reveals the confusion that Twitchell (the trickster) so loved to create. However, Ford Johnson's book \\"Confessions of a God Seeker\\" picks up where Lane left off. Ford, a highly positioned insider, still has some difficulty sorting out Twitchell's lies, but this is a minor distraction compared to the Big Picture.	2004-01-26
US	50304758	R2KKMT3S5MMS5D	1570431639	463276960	Autobiography of a Modern Prophet	Books	1	11	25	N	Y	Recycled Autobiography of a Modern Faker	Save your money on this book! The entire book of \\"Child in the Wilderness\\" is in this so called Autobiography (including the introduction). The rest of the book contains excerts from \\"Soul Travelers of the Far Country.\\" There is nothing new here, and Klemp makes it very difficult to sort times, places, and people out. I think Klemp graduated from high school in 1960, and may have two or three brothers and a sister. Nothing is forth coming and piecing people and events together is difficult since he jumps from past to future often. This seems like a deliberate attempt to confuse people much as Twitchell did through his distortions of truth. In this year 2000 rewrite Klemp still expouses that Eckankar and the Mahanta are not only greater than ALL of the other religions of the world and their prophets and saviors, but also of their GOD (pgs.385-386)! The GOD of the other religions of the world resides on the Mental (4th) Plane while the Mahanta (Klemp) resides at a level of consciousness on the 14th plus Planes. However, the religion of Native Americans and of the \\"Penecostal movement\\" and other emotional or 'heart religions' reside on the Astral (2nd) Plane. The only new thing I saw was on page 455 where Klemp says, \\"Peddar Zaskq, like the Yavata...\\" Yavata refers to an Eck (Eckankar) Master teaching on the Inner Planes. Klemp goes against his own missionary teaching advice by not using \\"common language\\" with the public. There was no need to use this word. Anyway, Klemp has an opportunity to say something new and different, but goes to the past to recycle old dogma. This book is a fraud when it states that it is an \\"Autobiography!\\"	2004-01-25
US	50304758	RRU8YS57A30TQ	1570431825	355913737	Past Lives, Dreams, and Soul Travel	Books	1	25	46	N	Y	Past and Present Lies, Fantasy, and Arrogance	This book is mainly filler. If you have ever read any other book by this author (Harold Klemp) you need not purchase this book. Many stories are even indicated as coming from other Eckankar books. There is also a lot dogma which is designed to influence the reader through various means of conscious and unconscious methods such as: repitition, dreams, substitution, and audio &amp; visual suggestion and self-hyptnosis. Early on the concept of the &quot;Mahanta&quot; is presented but is not fully explained. The Mahanta is greater than Jesus! The Mahanta is greater than God! Harold Klemp's titles are: Mahanta, the Living Eck Master, the Outer Master, the Inner Master, the Dream Master, and the Load of Hosts (to name just a few). In Eckankar all other religions are looked down upon and whose &quot;GOD&quot; is no higher than the 4th Plane or heaven. The Mahantaship begins on the 14th Plane! Even High Initiates in Eckankar begin at the 5th Plane which is higher than the &quot;GOD&quot; of all of the religions on earth or anywhere! However, Eckankar will falsely use the word &quot;God&quot; when talking to the &quot;public&quot; to mislead, fit in, and not scare off any potential members. Basically, the book is intended to continue the false creation of Paul Twitchell by making people dependent on someone (the Mahanta) other than their own Higher Self, or God-Soul. Self-Mastery is never a possibility although the author mentions spiritual freedom as a goal for each Soul. It is like a carrot that is dangled in fron of the seeker, but is always out of reach. This book is a big disappointment!	2004-01-20
US	50304758	R2DIAVG24NWYTD	1570431469	335238619	Soul Travelers of the Far Country	Books	1	4	9	N	Y	Harold Klemp talks about Darwin Gross - Eck Master	Harold Klemp, current spiritual leader of Eckankar, tries to convince the reader that he is the highest consciousnes in any universe of God (Sugmad). Paul Twitchell created Eckankar in 1965 and made himself grand master of all masters. Twitchell actually created the Mahanta (Inner Master) position in 1969. In September of 1971 Twitchell died and one month later (Oct. 22nd, Twitchell's birthday) Darwin Gross was appointed as Mahanta, the Living Eck Master. Twitchell had not designed a replacement so Twitchell's widow had a dream (supposedly)  where Gross was anointed (on the Inner planes) as the Mahanta. Shortly after this Twichell's widow (Gail) married Gross (very convenient). Gross divorced Gail after several years and remarried. After ten years as the leader of Eckankar Gross approached Klemp to share the position as co-masters, but legally made Klemp the Living Eck Master. After two years Klemp and Gross had a falling out of opinion and Klemp was legally able to ouster Gross. Now Klemp claims to be higher than &quot;God&quot; as the Mahanta. Eckists view the &quot;God&quot; of all religions to be no higher than 4th plane (Mental Plane). The Mahanta resides on the 14th plane. The God of Eckists (Sugmad) exists beyond concept. However, while Self-Mastery is supposed to be a goal... Eckists are taught to be reliant upon the fictional Mahanta for everything.	2003-12-23
US	50304758	RKTGNW0WTD5KI	1570430209	688038511	Child in the Wilderness: The True Story of God-Realization-Before, During and After	Books	1	3	8	N	N	A Spin on God-Realization	I first read this book 14 years ago, but decided to reread it when it was recommended instead of \\"Confessions of a God Seeker\\" by Ford Johnson. I found the revisit to Mr. Klemp's book very interesting since I brought with it a new perspective. In this review I will also give the reader some background into Eckankar (that the author leaves out) in order to bring forth a wider view and depth behind what I see as some of the true intentions behind this book.<br />In the introduction Mr. Klemp makes a shockingly arrogant comment in order to numb the reader's cognitive senses. If you can accept this then everything else becomes believable as well. He states that, \\"No savior could shoulder my burdens, for God-Realization brought with it full responsibility for everything I ever set into motion.\\" In reading of Mr. Klemp's experiences one wonders what burdens he is talking about. Mr. Klemp led a very uninteresting life and only experienced strife, of his own making, when he had personality conflicts with others, or when exhibiting obsessive-complusive, delusional, or anti-social behavior. And, he never seems to take responsibility for his own actions when conflict arises, nor does he consider what circumstances that other individuals may be going through. The story comes across as a very narcissistic and promotionally colored rewrite of Mr. Klemp's personal history, in order to give validity to his current position as Mahanta (master of all masters). It seems that the author was less than detached and was still taking things personally at the time of this uncanny (creative) recollection of events.<br />Mr. Klemp also seems to be psychologically conditioning the reader to accept his story as gospel by portraying himself to be more than even a savoir. In truth, Eckankar views the \\"God\\" of many religions as living, or residing, on the Astral Plane(2nd plane or level). The remaining religions of the world are seen to have their \\"God\\" residing on the Mental Plane (4th plane). Also, the entry level plane for God-Realization is the 8th plane, and the highest recorded level for God-Realization (according to Eckankar) is the Mahanta Consciousness (14th plane). In the Eckankar writings Jesus, for example, is seen as the equivalent of a second initiate (2nd plane), but achieving Cosmic Consciousness (4th plane). A high initiate in Eckankar begins at the Self-Realization level (5th plane). Mr. Klemp's reported God-Realization experience (8th plane or higher) took place at a time when he was only a 2nd initiate in Eckankar. Mr. Klemp misleads the general public by using the name \\"God\\" interchangeably with that of Sugmad (the Supreme One), but Sugmad is at an even higher level than the Mahanta. Confusion creates deception and prevents truth (such as it is) from being revealed.<br />Once again, at the very start of this book Mr. Klemp is placing himself on a higher level of consciousness than Jesus, Buddha, Krishna, Moses, Mohammed, and even \\"God.\\" If the reader buys into the \\"No savior could shoulder my burdens\\" spin then they are also buying into Mr. Klemp's delusion, and the Eckankar propaganda. Try repeating this \\"No savior\\" statement for yourself and feel how whacky (delusional) it sounds. Only circumstances (karma) have put Mr. Klemp into his so called leadership position. This is not only his own personal test, but that of anyone who wants to buy into the delusion with him! Mr. Klemp is simply taking the old \\"as if\\" (Soul Travelers of the Far Country, 1987, p. 66) approach to mastership in order to believe that he is all that Twitchell had created for himself. Klemp actually renamed Twitchell's method where one should assume a role then act it out. Eckists are to read books written on/by masters, saints, or God-men, like Brother Lawrence, and imitate them. It is thought that one will eventually  become that which they desire. However, the Catch-22 is that consciousness cannot be imitated. Behavior should provide a good litmus test for those claiming to have achieved God-Realization, but then again they may just be good actors when under public scrutiny. Sometimes they slip up, however, such as when angry, unloving, and personal insults are made toward individuals (H.I. Letter, 09/03).<br />Anyway, I was disappointed that the focus of the story began in 1970 and ended in 1971. Mr. Klemp makes excuses for his arrest and institutional stay, but does not reveal information about meeting his first wife, the death of his master (Paul Twitchell), or the ten years with his new master and Mahanta, Darwin Gross. Very disappointing indeed!	2003-11-14
US	50304758	RDYJIRO199TZK	1570431507	519965778	The Rosetta Stone of God	Books	3	8	13	N	Y	Interesting. However, the author has left Eckankar	The book gives interesting experiences that the author had on inner travels. However, the author &quot;now&quot; no longer gives recognition to the Mahanta for these experiences. We are our own Master or Mahanta. Comments are made to this fact on the Higher Consciousness website of Ford Johnson's. I find it interesting that Eckankar decided to do another printing of this book after the author resigned his Eckankar membership. Therefore, the subject matter in this book must come under question. I have no doubt of the inner experiences, but I (and the author) now understand that it was not the L.E.M. or Mahanta or other imagined Eck masters. Spirit works in mysterious ways, but Truth is utimately revealed. Read the author's own words on this subject on the Higher Consciousness website.<br />The blessings of Spirit are always with you.	2003-10-16
US	50304758	R28XTIRE9SG9MU	0972883584	517134930	Confessions of a God Seeker: A Journey to Higher Consciousness	Books	5	17	27	N	Y	A Study of Perspective	I found this book to be an exceptional read, especially as a follower (and H.I.) of Eckankar. Ford shares information that he had come across in his early years in Eck, but had discounted. He finally had to speak out when more conflicting information came to his attention. This led Ford to do a more extended research into the truth behind the beginnings of Eckankar, its foundation and tenets, and of its leaders. <br />Ford has an extensive amount of references that I have used in order to verify the information he gives. I was even able to take his findings further through my own research of \\"The Path of the Masters\\" by Julian P. Johnson, \\"Difficulties Of Becoming The Living ECK Master\\" Presented by Eckankar, \\"The Way Of Eckankar Series\\", by Paul Twitchell, and \\"A Cosmic Sea of Words, The Eckankar Lexicon\\" by Harold Klemp, and \\"Eckankar Dictionary\\" by Paul Twitchell. Most of these books were also used by Ford, but I decided to do my own research as well. It was interesting to discover that in my 1977 edition of \\"The Path of the Masters\\", on page 283, that Eckankar was originally spelled \\"Ekankar\\"! I also discovered that Paul Twitchell married his first wife (Camille) in 1942 at the age of 33, that he married Gail in the Fall 0f '63 at age 54, and that he was one month away from his 62nd birthday at the time of his death (Harold is the same age). Paul was initiated by Kirpal Singh in 1955 at the age of 46, and Paul's first wife who was from the same town states that Paul never left home until he went in the Navy in late '42. These are just some of hundreds of little, and not so little, deviations from the truth regarding Paul Twitchell and Eckankar.<br />Some people think Ford comes across as being too mental in his approach in revealing the truth behind Eckankar, but how do they \\"think\\" the teachings of Eck are communicated on this physical plane? I really would suggest that those who have skimmed through either the first half or second half or even the entire bookthat they go back and do a slow \\"read\\". Reading is like listening, and skimming is like talking over or ignoring someone. People who have skimmed this book have missed important information and perspective. I also suggest that Eckists put their ANGER and PRIDE behind them and try to keep an open mind when looking at this material. Remember, this material cannot harm you so don't be fearful of it, or of keeping this book in your bookcase for reference or a later read. Also, I really suggest Eckists read (not skim) \\"The Path of the Masters\\" to truly see how Paul created Eckankar. That book was a real eye opener! <br />Ford states that he is not starting a new religion or setting himself up as a living Master. Ford is merely pointing out that you do not need a Mahanta or Master as a pass-key to God-Realization or higher levels of consciousness. Most of us had this communication with Spirit before Eckankar, during Eckankar, and I still have it after Eckankar. We all have the opportunity to have that direct connection with GOD and SPIRIT through our own Mastership... now!<br />Whatever your decision I wish you well. I have taken the plunge and AM Loving IT!	2003-10-02
US	50304758	R18B7CF1CFX1HQ	0881550892	67934207	The Spiritual Notebook	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Twitchell's Dogma is Thick, but Still a Good Read	Once again, after reading \\"Confessions of a God Seeker\\" by Ford Johnson \\"The Spiritual Notebook\\" looks very different from years<BR>ago when I first read it. Twitchell promotes his newly invented \\"religion\\", but also imparts some very useful information, even though it seems to be plagiarized from \\"The Path of the Masters\\" and Theosophy. It's too bad Twitchell didn't give credit to other authors whose writings he used. I'll take truth over spin any day.	2003-09-21
US	50304758	RV38LV66I5RIP	157043039X	594277383	The Tiger's Fang	Books	3	14	17	N	N	This is the Eck Bible for die hard Twitchell fans	After reading &quot;Confessions of a God Seeker&quot; by Ford Johnson I am giving all of Twitchell's and Klemp's books a second, hard look. I am now able to give a different perspective on a book review than a current Eckist could or would dare to.<br />Tiger's Fang is an interesting book with obvious ties to Shabd Yoga which was Twitchell's previous spiritual path. This book also has some Twitchell fiction similar to his &quot;Talons of Time&quot; novel. Rebazar Tarz, unfortunately, is a made up character who becomes the keystone in Twitchell's deception of Eck Master linage which validates the current administration. Still, the book does have some redeeming value if one is able to discern truth from fiction. Lots of  luck!	2003-09-20
US	50304758	RCGQT05D88T42	157043154X	797277797	ECKANKAR--The Key to Secret Worlds	Books	3	9	16	N	N	A Good book, but flawed by Twitchell's dishonesty	After reading &quot;Confessions of a God Seeker&quot; by Ford Johnson I now view all of Twitchell's writings with a pound of salt. Although, Twitchell has made the thoughts, words, and experiences of others his own, there is still useful information here. <br />Normally, I would have given this book a higher rating, but the difficulty in determining where the origional source of this information left off and Twitchell's &quot;creative imagination&quot; began makes much of the information in the book suspect. Still, there is information contained within this book that is helpful to any Soul consciously beginning or continuing their Inner journey. Just pay attention, and beware of the dogma.	2003-09-20
US	50304758	RSA6V3WWNVQ5W	1570430489	921717154	The Shariyat-Ki-Sugmad Book I: Discover the Ancient Scriptures of God's Love For You	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Paulji Creates a Complex Spiritual Path	Actually, Paul Twitchell created a \\"spiritual path\\" that became a \\"religion\\" by the current leader of Eckankar, Harold Klemp. This book represents volume one of Eckankar's Holy Books. It is Eckankar's position that this book is merely truth such as it is, and that this truth is based on the spiritual maturity of the audience at the time the book was written. For the reader to discover higher truths the seeker is advised to read the book on the Astral plane (where other volumes are kept). There could be several versions of truth for any particular topic, which would fit the consciousness of the reader.<br />The book is very interesting and has some very useful information. However, the reader must keep in mind that there is much dogma interwoven into this book. This book is more for members of Eckankar than for the general public, and parts of this book will seem complex and confusing for anyone except a very well grounded High Initiate.	2003-09-17
