US	50300020	R38JVUTO9F2M0F	1594200319	816807979	Garlic and Sapphires: The Secret Life of a Critic in Disguise	Books	3	31	37	N	Y	Very entertaining, but I have some reservations	Reichl's book, like her famous double review of Le Cirque, raises the probing question of whether the \\"best\\" restaurants truly have earned their titles by treating all of their customers as four stars restaurant should, or whether, instead, the four star treatment is reserved for \\"special\\" patrons.  With that question she delves into issues related to food, class, and economics from her unique and powerful perspective as the NY Times restaurant reviewer.  The reader cheers her reviews of Le Cirque, Tavern on the Green and The Box Tree, in which she took powerful restaurants to task for their failure to treat ALL patrons (rather than just the most well-known or privileged) with the respect and graciousness for which they have paid.  My husband and I now have the luxury of being able to eat at such restaurants from time-to-time (though certainly not regularly), and we usually happily get what we paid for.  But we *have* had occasional negative experiences like Reichl describes, and have seen others have them as well.  As Reichl recognizes, many people \\"save up\\" to eat at these establishments, or visit them for very \\"special occasions,\\" only to be treated poorly.  Restaurants who do not give the \\"four star treatment\\" to *every* guest (rather than the select few) are NOT, by definition, \\"four star\\" and do not deserve to be treated as though they are.     Taking this point one step further, Reichl also uses her reviews to make New Yorkers understand that truly good cuisine need not be expensive, and need not be French.  Her positive reviews of ethnic cuisine are educational and delightful.  In short, Reichl might be seen as the democratizer of the NY Times restaurant reviews.    However, at various points in the narrative Reichl seems to suffer from snobbery of her own (which she largely fails to recognize).  Her behavior at dinner with the man who paid for a meal with her at a charity auction-- showing up his food knowledge, expressing extreme frustration that he wantedto eat at a nice restaurant-- and her nasty comments about the young couple next to her at another restaurant, for example, exhibited a sense of superiority that seems to run beneath the surface of her narrative.  She acknowledges her poor behavior on these occasions through the words of her friends or her husband, but it would have been nice to see a bit more recognition of her limitations in her own words or discussion about her growth from these experiences.      In addition, the deep \\"transformations\\" that Reichl claims overtook her when she was in disguise seem contrived.  While I understand the need for the disguises, I (again) do not understand her need to \\"become\\" these characters and while \\"in character\\" treat others poorly, such as by leaving a cab driver no tip or making rude comments about others.          While I found the book enjoyable, Reichl generally likeable, and the restaurant reviews fascinating, Reichl offended me by including her negative views on, and review of, Windows on the World.  Writing in 2005, Reichl unquestionably knows that Windows on the World perished in the terrorist attacks of 9/11/2001, together with approximately 80 members of its dedicated staff who were on duty that morning, including its executive pastry chef and countless workers who undoubtedly took pride in their work at what was a pillar of New York.  They are the images we see in news coverage waving towels out the windows of the top floor, begging for rescue.  We have seen some of their family members speak on television about the delight some of them took from working at such a renowned establishment.  Her inclusion of Windows seemed totally unnecessary except to tell her story about dinner with the \\"obnoxious\\" charity guest she could not stand.  Did she really need to kick these people, or the memories of these people, while they were down?  How hard would it have been to edit out?         The book is very entertaining, and I applaud Reichl for democratizing the Times' restaurant reviews.  I just wish she had been a little more thoughtful about what details she chose to include, and how she chose to frame them.	2005-10-13
US	50300020	R3ZQT5EUWTVU7	1400060052	44167654	Lucia, Lucia: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	An easy read	I have a weakness for novels that can effectively take me to a certain time or place and make me want to stay there.  Trigiani beautifully recreates and draws the reader into the glamorous and dream-like New York fashion world of the 1950's.  Its setting alone is enough to make me like this book, but there is more to it than that.  The reader cannot help but like Lucia, a girl with her own mind and ahead of her time.  Trigiani tells her story so that the reader knows from the first paragraph Lucia's somewhat sad outcome.  The reader, entering Lucia's world with almost with a feeling of superiority, waits for the dumb mistake or terrible tragedy that must have landed her in her position.  But as we learn Lucia's story, we can't help but cheer her decisions as she follows her heart, even when those decisions ultimately lead her down the difficult path that leads to where we find her.  The reader struggles somewhat uncomfortably, knowing the negative consequences of Lucia's decisions, but ultimately unable to disagree with them.  Trigiani reminds us that following one's heart involves serious risks-- and those risks can have troubling consequences, without a happy ending.  It is this simple truth that separates her novel from the rest of the novels in the \\"large-and strict-but-loveable-ethnic-family-with-headstrong-daughter-getting-married\\" genre.  So, Trigiani's novel would have been more powerful if she'd left the final portion (with its 'sort of' happy ending added on) on the \\"cutting room floor.\\"  Trigiani is clearly a good writer, but leaving Lucia's story be would have shown more courage and artistic maturity, in my opinion.  (As an aside, the use of the present tense throughout the novel also irritated me.)  All in all, a good, easy read, though.	2005-05-09
US	50300020	R3K7IBKJB6U0IM	074341263X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time: A Novel	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Horrible...	I've read all of Clark's books-- they are what I occasionally turn to when I don't feel like thinking, and just want an easy and very quick read.  In bed sick recently, I reached for her new work.  While Clark is a popular mystery writer through-and-through and not a serious novelist, this book is the worst of the lot.  There is absolutely no character development whatsoever.  The reviewer who commented that Clark seemed to \\"pick a character out of thin air\\" to be the villian in a seemingly tacked-on ending is right on the mark.  Moreover, part of the charm of Clark's earlier works is that she always seems to develop easily relatable characters (and female heroines in particular) in interesting and well-described (and well-researched) locales.  I could not bring myself to care for Jean or the other characters, and re-read multiple pages trying to figure out why these alumni were taking a tour of West Point-- they did not go there, they apparently lived in the town...???  It was very unclear.  The \\"I am an Owl\\" bit, together with the mask, seemed like something out of a 12 year-old's mystery novel (Encyclopedia Brown, anyone?) and almost made me laugh out loud.  One could see the cutesy little romances at the end of the book coming from a mile away; too bad the reader doesn't care enough about the characters to cheer their unifications.  Part of me believes maybe I'm just done with trashy mystery novels, but part of me remembers that Clark's earlier works (despite being written at the 8th grade reading level) were page-turners, and that is why I read so many of them.  I find that I prefer Patricia Cornwell and some other authors for my quick-mystery fixes these days.	2005-05-05
US	50300020	R2VY1XTSIUT002	0060736267	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	A masterpiece	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn has been on my \\"to read\\" list since girlhood, but I never got around to it, until this week, at age 29.  Now I almost cannot believe I lived so long without reading it.  Smith's novel is a written masterpiece of storytelling, characterization, and narration.  Never have I so longed to be back in college with a professor and fellow English majors, to be sure I hadn't overlooked a single morsel of a book.  Though Smith writes in the third person, it IS \\"Francie's book\\" and the narrator describes the world beautifully through her eyes.  Over and over, a single, simple sentence expressing a fleeting, naive thought by young Francie manages to make more of a poignant and sometimes humorous social commentary than what other authors might take entire chapters to describe.  As Francie grows, so does the narration-- becoming more direct, less naive, and more self-aware.  Francie is one of the most lovingly drawn and memorable characters I've ever encountered-- she is a timeless picture of every curious young girl who has ever grown up in a poor family, dreaming of more, working hard in school and writing her way to a better life.  A century later, I know that I was that girl, and thousands of other women over time have been \\"that girl,\\" yet Francie manages at the same time to be both every-girl and a unique little jewel all her own.  Smith's book not only provides an intriguing description of life of the American urban poor at the turn of the century, but also grapples with social issues still existing in modern America.  This is a book to be read over and over; even while reading it, I was aware of how much I was missing by not pausing to relish and deconstruct particular passages.  However, it is also a novel so well-written and so packed with life that it deserves to be savored between readings.  So, as I finished the book, I had to stop myself from turning back to page 1 and starting again-- at least for a while.	2005-05-05
US	50300020	R1APM78RDDLK20	0345442822	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Guilty pleasure	Landvik's novel fits snugly in the \\"guilty pleasure\\" category.  Like chicken pot pie on a rainy Sunday afternoon, AHEB draws readers in quickly, reminding them of their own friends and neighbors.  Following the friendship of four women, the book spans four decades of personal, interpersonal, political and cultural milestones, and leaves readers rooting for its characters.  While Lvornik's book is certainly not great \\"literature\\" in any real sense, and her writing, despite the editorial review to the contrary, is *not* in the same league as Fannie Flagg (and maybe not even Rebecca Wells), her story is warm and cozy, and a perfect and easy fireside, airplane or beach read.	2005-04-30
US	50300020	R2UY6RIEM9SPY9	1588162699	47223987	House Beautiful 750 Decorating & Design Ideas: Express Yourself with Color, Pattern, Light & Style	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Beautiful book...	I had to double check that I had the same book as some of the other reviewers.  In my edition, the photographs are quite lovely, with a couple of exceptions now that I've given it a much closer look.  A couple reviewers comment about the overdone style of the rooms, but there are so many rooms, in so many different styles, it is hard to say something like that.  There are definitely some floral-frilly rooms, and some rooms that are certainly not for those who harbor disgust for toile (I'm rather indifferent to it) . . . but there are just as many very sophisticated, simple, elegant, subdued rooms pictured as well.  Perhaps that is what I like about the book-- there are so many different styles, that almost anyone could find something inspirational in it.  French country is overrepresented, I admit, and from someone who is not too excited about shabby chic either, there are too many pictures of that for me.  Some photographs reek of nouveau riche.  But there are also colonial, modern country, modern eclectic and other styles well represented in some very pretty pictures. I agree strongly with the editorial review's point that someone looking for a \\"how-to\\" book will be disappointed.  This book is all about the pictures (which I love), with tips spread throughout on sidebars.  The entertaining or efficiency tips I could do without (\\"give old clothes to an organization\\"), but a lot of the decorating tips are interesting.  As a serious Type A personality, I \\"flag\\" things of interest in books-- this book has so many flags I had to stop!  From lovely little ideas like storing makeup in darling old silver cups to helpful advice like how to choose a frame for a period piece of art, I would describe this book in relation to a decorating \\"library,\\" as the frosting on the cake . . . beautiful, and full of neat pieces of advice that don't make it into the substantive \\"how-to\\" decorating books.  This book would not be the basis of your interior decorating library-- but is full of sweet solutions on the back end.  **I am editing my review to add that, if I could I would change my review to 2 stars because I've only had the book a short time and the spine is falling apart-- cheap construction for a nice, expensive book that should be coffee table quality!**	2005-04-17
US	50300020	R1JBY7N424SM7F	1561586226	732671072	Colonial Style: Creating Classic Interiors in Your Cape, Colonial, or Saltbox Home	Books	2	13	26	N	N	Too museum-esque	I think the hallmark of good design is the ability to maintain that integrity while also moving with some elements of style from the period in which you actually live.  I guess the title really means \\"CLASSIC interiors;\\" the book shows how to create interiors that would have looked appropriate in 1763.  Today, a number of the interiors come across as dark, overwhelming and provincial.  The photographs viewable on Amazon are misleading because the interiors pictured are more simple, more modern, and brighter than most of those photographed in the book.  I would take a long look at it in-store before investing if you prefer simple, classic design to stringently historical interiors.  (Also, as an aside, the book seems to utilize an older understanding of acceptable paint colors for colonials-- darker, duller colors.  Others, such as Martha Stewart's books, proclaim that newer research shows that slightly brighter shades were actually used more often than previously believed.)	2005-04-11
US	50300020	R13Y1ORWJ4GB6Z	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great read!	Larson's book is great not merely for its gripping and chilling tale of murder, but almost more for the background against which the true story is set. The morsels of American cultural history are truly to be savored; that they all came together at such a place and time make them all the more delicious. I agree that the book sometimes takes \\"parallel tracks,\\" but it makes it no less of a wonderful and easy read. <br />	2005-03-25
US	50300020	R2IJ764639ARY7	1403962588	477563982	The History of Mexico	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Succint, useful history	The two greatest attributes of Kirkwood's History of Mexico are its brevity and readability.  Roughly the length of a long novel, it makes for a quick and easy read for those traveling to Mexico or just interested in its basic history.  It is short on cultural movements and longer on the military and economic evolution of the country.  Like the editorial reviewer above, I wish Kirkwood would have dedicated significantly more room (and more facts) to present-day issues, such as immigration, the NAFTA, the peso bailout and the achievements and failures of the Fox administration.  Still, the book provides a good, short, readable background on Mexican history for English speakers with limited basic knowledge of the country's history.	2005-03-23
US	50300020	R2CDN446IODKKN	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Not sure what the hype is about	My distaste for the magical realism genre certainly colors my view of Esquivel's novel.  Still, there are glaring weaknesses that also contribute to my lukewarm 3-star rating.  The allegory and symbolism are so forced and awkwardly integrated that I started out rolling my eyes and ended up having to force myself not to skip entire paragraphs. In addition, the characters are incredibly underdeveloped.  For example, the love Tita feels for Pedro becomes revolting to the reader; how could she continue to love such a horrible, cowardly cad?  Finally, the transitions are so untended that, toward the end, the chronology becomes incredibly confusing, leading up to an ending I can only describe as tacked-on and cute-sy.  On the other hand, for those who like reading location-specific novels while traveling, the novel makes for a pleasant, quick and mindless read on the beach in Mexico.  That's exactly what I purchased it for, so it served its purpose.	2005-03-23
US	50300020	R2JK016TIDEW70	0764554387	902170190	Hawaii For Dummies (Dummies Travel)	Books	5	44	49	N	Y	The best travel book I've ever owned	I have traveled a lot, and own a lot of travel books, but have never felt compelled to write a review of one-- until now.    Three years ago, while planning our two-week honeymoon to Maui and Kauai, I bought a LOT of Hawaii books.  In the planning stage, I kept finding myself returning to this book.  Unlike Fodors and Frommers, the author actually makes JUDGMENTS about places and activities and tells you what the BEST of each category are.  Imagine that-- rather than just providing a rote listing of the hotels on an island with a short description (and maybe a star or two), the author actually tells you which hotels to go to if you want serious romance, which are best for families, and which rooms to request (or not).  Rather than listing activities, the author actually tells you which are the safest and most reliable helicopter companies, which are the best companies to to take for a private, romantic and uncrowded sailing trip.  There are \\"heart\\" symbols to denote the most romantic lodging, restaurants, and activities, and they never steered us wrong.  (I specifically remember one romantic restaurant, for which the book said to be sure to make a reservation, and ask the hostess to seat us outside at exactly sunset.  It was a perfect suggestion, and I will never forget that evening.) Once we arrived on the islands we were visiting, we used the book almost exclusively (our other books found their way to the backseat of our convertible and stayed there).  It was incredibly accurate.      Since that first trip, my husband and I have returned to the islands multiple times, and our book has been put to such good use that it is practically falling apart.  The other Hawaii books are still in pristine condition!    (As an aside, I also highly recommend [...] for planning Hawaii travel-- go to the message boards, which are searchable.  Forget the other books; this book and fodors.com are all you need for a perfect trip!)	2005-03-16
US	50300020	R3UOC0LC0ZDJ5Y	0609602195	362558610	The Barefoot Contessa Cookbook	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Great for entertaining!	I registered for and received this cookbook as a wedding gift in 2002, and it has been put to good use.  I was already a fan of Martha Stewart (who writes the forward).  Still, I found Garten's more carefree entertaining philosophy a breath of fresh air, especially in a two-career household, in which time is at a premium, but gourmet entertaining is fairly common and necessary.  Everything I've made from the book has received raves, but it is not simply a cookbook or recipe book-- it is an entertaining book.  I love that Garten doesn't insist that EVERYTHING be made from scratch; her advice to make some great dishes and get some good bread from a bakery mirrors my own menu philosophy.  Why slave over the simple things that others can do better, when you can concentrate on your best courses?  (For this reason, I've never understood the allure of breadmakers.)  I love that she even includes a \\"recipe\\" on how to arrange a fruit tray or dessert tray from pre-made desserts (like cookies/brownies from the bakery).  Perfect for those little get-togethers when you have a large number of guests, are busy with other things or want to concentrate on more complicated courses.  I recently received \\"Barefoot Contessa Parties\\" as a Christmas gift, and cannot wait to wear it out as well!	2005-03-16
US	50300020	R3FE9F6XW1HPOD	0609603558	183434454	The Essential Cuisines of Mexico: Revised and updated throughout, with more than 30 new recipes.	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Best Mexican Cookbook	Received this as a wedding gift from a dear foodie couple and love it.  It is said to be the best Mexican cookbook, and I believe it!	2005-03-16
US	50300020	R2PI9MS0V9NYWZ	0609603108	102179207	Martha Stewart's Hors d'Oeuvres Handbook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The ultimate hors d'oeuvres cookbook	Whether you're planning a Super Bowl party, a bridal shower, or a cocktail party, this book has numerous beautiful and delicious possibilities for entertaining.  I've used it for a huge variety of events, unfailingly with incredible results.  I love that EVERY recipe has a beautiful photo, so you can think about presentation possibilities.  A couple of the recipes have proven more time-intensive than I expected, but those are balanced by the ones that have had a huge \\"wow\\" factor with almost no effort.  You just have to experiment to find out which is which.	2005-03-16
US	50300020	R359DKPKU3OCC0	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	One of the great post-modernists	To say De Lillo's White Noise is about the fear of death is a gross over-simplification.  What makes White Noise a great post-modernist work is its unique and critical look at so much of what we consider the mundane realities of modern life-- technology, the media, the evolution of family structures, pop culture . . . and so on.  The book is funny, sad, terrifying and dark, and will always be one of my favorites.	2005-03-15
US	50300020	R2U6AB6D2077PL	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Terrifying and perfect	Despite my penchant for both women's literature and modern American literature, and despite the fact that I even majored in American Literature in college, I never got around to reading this book.  I so loved Plath's poetry, particularly in college, that I think I was secretly frightened to read her autobiography because it would force me to think carefully about her tragic end.  Now that I've finally finished it, I can count it among my favorite novels.  Its colloquial and simple language makes it an easy read.  Esther's deep struggles with the opportunities both open and closed to women are as accurate and pertinent today as they were 30 or 40 years ago, and Plath's riveting and terrifying description of a young girl's plunge into mental illness is crafted with such ease that the reader begins to question her own sanity.  The real tragedy of the novel is knowing the true end of Plath, and thinking how much more wonderful prose and poetry she could have contributed.	2005-03-15
US	50300020	R1ILCNJASJEMI7	0374521719	20444963	Play It As It Lays: A Novel	Books	2	16	39	N	N	Agree with Kenneth Ryan	I agree wholeheartedly with Kenneth Ryan's review.  This book was \\"recommended\\" reading in one of my English classes at UCLA several years ago, and I bought it, but just now picked it up for a read.  The problem is that the main character is so vapid that I simply did not CARE what happened to her.  It has always been my firm belief that one must identify with, care about, or even despise a main character to care enough to keep reading.  This novel was painful to finish; who cares what happens to these people?  I agree that whatever \\"splash\\" the book made in its day came from the shock value it would have had because of the amorality of its characters.  It's hard to shock us these days, and the book is now just plain uninteresting.	2005-03-15
US	50300020	RJDCU1QT1XCRL	0380778556	39495389	Rebecca	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless tale of murder and romance	My love for the classics intersects with my mother's love for murder mysteries . . . My mother had been telling me forever to read this book.  I would get through a few chapters and grow tired of the incredibly long descriptive passages.  On a recent trip to London, though, I steeled myself for the first couple of slow chapters (which my mother kept telling me were \\"worth it\\" to get through) and fell in love with this novel.  It is fascinating, mysterious, romantic, and terrifying all at once.  I simply could not put it down.  It will remain a favorite of mine for life.	2005-03-15
US	50300020	R39DWQTAMVNJF	0060502258	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Divine	This novel touched such a chord in me.  I grew up one of two daughters of a single mother, surrounded by strong, loud, and sometimes even embarrassing women of the South (my mother and her sisters).  Men were generally out of the picture.  While I grew up in California, I felt as though I'd been to every place and known just about every person in Wells' book-- either through their stories or through my own personal experiences with my family and living briefly in the South.  As the daughter of a woman incredibly devoted to her children, but sometimes overwhelmed to the point of frustration and harsh words, I understood the complexity of Siddalee's relationship with Vivianne, and the deep love between the two of them.  One reviewer commented that a weakness of the book is how much the reader learns about Vivianne that Siddalee never does-- and Siddalee's forgiveness  and acceptance of her mother without that knowledge.  I disagree.  There is so much about our mother's lives we can never know; they lived 20, 30, even 40 years, before our births.  One of the hardest challenges for a daughter is to understand that her mother is the way she is because of what she has experienced-- her losses, her loves, her heartaches-- and that she will never be able to share all of those experiences with her daughters.  Wells makes reference to this generational problem again with Vivianne and her mother.  The reader sees the struggles of Vivianne's mother, and its effects on both her and Vivianne-- and how those struggles even trickle down to affect Sidda's life.  We are our mother's daughters, and our grandmothers' granddaughters . . . and so on, and our lives are inevitably shaped by the decisions, struggles, and life experiences of the women who came before us.  A wonderful, funny, touching novel.  Simply divine.	2005-03-15
US	50300020	R2BOGVZF0A428E	0027351904	963848780	Prayer for a Child	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Just beautiful!	I am always on the lookout for classic children's books, especially re-releases, and especially Caldecott honor or medal books.  I was surprised to find this recently in an airport bookstore, as I had not seen it anywhere else!  The book is just beautiful.  I had been on the lookout for a children's book that introduces the concept of prayer in a sweet way, without being too scary or too overtly religious or too over-the-top or too boring.  You'd be surprised how little is out there.  This old book fit the bill.  The illustrations are sweet, simple, and gorgeous, and the words are snug, cozy, warm and comforting.  I loved everything about it, and bought it immediately.  What a treasure; so glad for the re-issue!	2004-09-16
US	50300020	R3FGAK9138UO9U	0878070427	286803674	Leo the Late Bloomer	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	I love Leo!	In a world in which every middle class parent worries if their child isn't top notch in everything, this book is a beautiful classic to remind us all to relax.  I collect children's books, and my husband suggested this one, as he loved it as a child.  When I got it, I loved it immediately.  It assures children and parents that people progress at different levels, but everybody blooms.  My husband was a very small child, shorter than everyone in his class, and this book brought him comfort and encouraged him in what he was good at.  About 20 or 25 years later, he's a self-confident, very socially adept doctor!  I remember struggling very much in kindergarten and first grade with everything from cutting to skipping to math to reading.  Everything clicked for me around 2nd or 3rd grade, and school became a breeze after that.  I became self-assured, and successful.  I wish I'd had this book when I was struggling with those things... I might have been more confident from the start! <br /> <br />For the reviewer concerned that parents would delay help for their children, I doubt a kid's book would have that effect.  Parents can tell when something is wrong, and one children's book is going to sway them from taking action! <br /> <br />Oh, and the big bonus... the illustrations are darling, and classic 1970's renderings.  The words are absolutely heartwarming!	2004-08-26
US	50300020	R2K6XUN8EF7QZF	0684126761	655581485	Cinderella	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Beautiful version...	The typical gender stereotype issues that come with Cinderella aside, this is a simply beautiful version.  It is an older version, so it is more of a story than the typical Disney version seen today.  The illustrations are gorgeous, which is probably why it received the rewards it did.  Every child is exposed to the story of Cinderella at some point, so I made the decision to make it this beautiful, classic, un-Disney-fied version!	2004-08-26
US	50300020	RVYWW1CYL35U3	0060011831	172888602	The Epidemic: The Rot of American Culture, Absentee and Permissive Parenting, and the Resultant Plague of Joyless, Selfish Children	Books	3	61	76	N	N	Agree with the premise . . .	This book was highly recommended by a friend after a conversation in which we pretty much enthusiastically agreed that permissive parenting has had extremely ill effects on the behavior of children around us.  I jumped into reading it wholeheartedly, as I, too, have noticed the \\"epidemic\\" of households dominated by preschoolers and adolescents.  As  children, my sister and I, and our friends, knew how to act in a pizza parlor-- we were there to eat, and sit quietly, and talk nicely-- and we knew the consequences if we did not.  I've seen so many children with parents who make excuses that \\"kids will be kids\\" or are so afraid of being strict with their children that they train them to be selfish monsters.  It truly concerns and disgusts me.  I thus agree with Dr. Shaw's thesis and the point he is trying to drive home.    Still, I have some problems with the book.  First of all, it is awfully long on strongly worded opinions, and awfully short on any scientific or socially scientific evidence or research.  Given his academic medical background, I expected more \\"research\\"-- after all an \\"epidemic\\" is a scientific term, usually quantified in numbers.  Instead, I felt like I was reading the rantings of an old man on a train annoyed at the loud children around him.  There just does not seem to be much meat to the book.  There are anecdotes of incidents Dr. Shaw sees in restaurants or on a beach, followed by his opinion on them, but little, if any, in-depth analysis or research or statistics cited.  Yes, Dr. Shaw, we all see what is happening, but what makes an interesting BOOK is when you study and quantify the trend, rather than just ranting about your random observations.    The other bone I have to pick is Dr. Shaw's chapter and other references regarding the choice to work outside the home.  From reading the book, one would think that a child with two parents working outside the home full time is at a serious disadvantage.   Sure, he gives lip service to the idea thatSOME mothers (very few) can handle it and do a good parenting job, but really presses that people who must have a 2-career household should find a way to both work 2/3 shifts, or have one parent work at home.  I find his discussions problematic on a number of levels.  First, there are a number of studies showing that there is little or no effect of parents working outside the home, and that, in fact, children attending quality preschools do better in school and social activities when tested at intervals than do those who stay at home exclusively with their mothers.  I'm not sure whether the one study he cites or these other studies are \\"right,\\" but what bothers me is his complete neglect to even mention or grapple with this conflicting research.    Also, on my own anecdotal level, my husband and I are planning to start a family in the next couple of years, and have been worried about this issue.  I've felt particularly guilty, because my husband is a medical resident making very little money.  Sure, I could stay home, but on his salary a family of three would be at the poverty level in a major city like ours.  I will go back to work after a 4 month leave, and will return to a job as an attorney.  Dr. Shaw seems to assume that every parent has the \\"choice\\" to stay at home and do freelance work of some kind if they need the money, or work night shifts.  With our school loans and the cost of college, and the amount of effort it took to become a lawyer, I don't think I'll be giving it up to lick envelopes at home.  Still, I wondered if that was selfish, until I looked around me.  I have so many girlfriends who are moral, well-balanced, successful amazing women with good family lives, well-behaved children, and great hearts.  And each one of them had a working mother, whether she was a CEO, like one friend's mom, a best selling author (another), a doctor (another), a Harvard admission officer (another), a farm worker (another), or a single blue collar mom trying to getby (mine!).  In contrast, I can think of one particular woman I know who is ill-adjusted, uneducated, bitter, and lazy-- and her mother stayed home. I'm NOT saying this is the normal outcome of SAHM's AT ALL-- it is an amazingly noble choice.  But my point is simply that Dr. Shaw cites almost no research, and MY anecdotal evidence suggests that good moms are good moms, no matter their choice.  He also doesn't address the possibility that perhaps seeing their mothers in such roles provides value to daughters and to sons, and also helps them with gender role stereotypes and work ethic later on.    I could do without the heavy-handed opinions, and would have loved more hard facts and research.  I honestly think Dr. Shaw's got it right-- our generation seems to be, in many cases, raising joyless, selfish children.  Permissive parenting has gone awry.  Children are way too exposed to media.  Parents don't engage themselves enough in their children's friendships, activities, and lives.  They don't put enough limitations on them.  My mom did a bang-up job at all of these things, and I think that fuels my horror when I see many children who have succumbed to the \\"epidemic\\" Shaw desribes.  But, Dr. Shaw, show us the facts, show us the research!  Especially if you're going to make me feel bad about our choice to be -- GASP-- a 2-full time career family!    I do think that the book would make a great guide for parents who are starting to feel out of control, for new mothers worried about their choices on feeding and sleeping, and for those looking for a good, effective childrearing and disciplinary philosophy.	2004-08-26
US	50300020	R1ACMRJDLOWQ2B	067003620X	168701260	Raindrop, Plop!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Darling, cozy, beautiful rainy day book!	I usually restrict my purchases to the most classic, well-loved children's books, but when I saw this one, I couldn't resist, and I love it already, and am sure that children will, too. <br /> <br />The book follows a little girl through all the cozy pleasures of a rainy day like puddles, a raincoat and hat, soaking in a nice warm tub, cocoa with marshmallows... all with bright, beautiful illustrations, and a counting lesson to boot! I've always loved and appreciated the coziness of rainy days, and with this perfect book, I'll be able to share that feeling with my children.  I can't wait!	2004-08-16
US	50300020	R1YJO9AQ3EITR2	0307168034	520953560	Richard Scarry's Busy, Busy Town	Books	5	166	170	N	N	Wonderful, classic children's book	The person who ranted about the anti-feminist leaning of the book must never have opened it! I've got it right here. On the hospital page, there are two doctors-- Dr. Lion is male and Dr. Rabbit is female. The only dentist (looking in Lowly Worm's mouth) is female. In the offices, there is a female writer, and a female banker. There is a female running the book store and another running the candy shop. The postal workers are equally male and female. On the \\"busy housekeepers\\" page, the page says that \\"everyone helps around the house\\" and shows men and women, boys and girls, cleaning the house. The woodworkers page shows men and women equally, as does the farmer page, the railroad workers page, the supermarket, the airport, and so on. The only pages that lean toward one sex are: the repairmen page (all male), the trucker page (all male) the firefighters page (all male, but come on... it shows them getting out of bed!), the school page (all female teachers).    This is such a great book, perfect for helping children learn words and about all the things around them in their town... it is a classic, and deserves to be. I hate to see its reputation spoiled by one reviewer, who posted twice, and clearly hasn't even looked at the book!!!	2004-08-16
US	50300020	R2ZB4X93BV1YJE	0525472800	452990597	Winnie-The-Pooh's ABC  Book	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Nice, large, sturdy ABC board book	I tend to avoid what I think of as \\"knock off\\" books-- I'll buy the original Miss Spider, but not a silly \\"count to ten\\" board book with Miss Spider, and so forth.  So, my initial reaction to a \\"Pooh\\" ABC book was kind of negative.  However, there are not a lot of board books out there for younger children that are also ABC books and are large enough for their little hands to hold and look at the pictures.  This book combined the classic book aspect that I look for in children's books, with the practicality of a pretty large board book with ABC's.  If I had to criticize something, it would be that some of the pictures are not very bright in color, but that is something that you always encounter with Classic Pooh-- the illustrations are beautiful, and the colors are subdued, making them pretty, but perhaps not as engaging.  Then again, I tend to think children are over-stimulated enough so soothing pictures can be nice for once.  I would recommend it to anyone looking for a nice, sturdy ABC board book.	2004-07-08
US	50300020	R3VKT5M9FR7CGP	0440404193	798277940	Are You There God?  It's Me, Margaret	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book WAS me, and helped me grow up...	A couple of reviewers found this book unrealistic, but for me, this WAS reality.  I read this book for the first time when I was nine (which would have been... um... 1984).  I read it a couple of more times between 9 and 12, and it hit home every time.  I was a kid who was brainy and private, and had my own relationship with God, but I was also suddenly interested with my looks, boys, and all of the \\"milestones\\" of adolescence, including menstruation.  This book not only made me feel normal, and made for a great read, but it made for a lot of great conversations with my mother.  I asked her about things in the book, like the descriptions of menstrual cramps, and why the girls wear \\"belts\\" when they have their period (the book was written before beltless pads, so my mom explained what it was like for her back then), and so on.  Those are times with my mother I'll never forget.  And when my big day came, which I wasn't looking forward to, I cried because I actually did not want my period, but I also knew a lot about what it would be like. I'll be giving this to my daughter at the right age, as well!	2003-06-13
US	50300020	R1RWYV5PMM50JK	0916291529	867603994	The Gas We Pass: The Story of Farts	Books	1	16	60	N	N	Disgusting!	I picked up this book at the book store and read through it.  I was really put off by it.<br />First of all, the word \\"fart\\" is generally an undesirable word, in my opinion, for children to be learning and running around saying aloud, at home or in public.  Yes, the word is taboo in public, and while passing gas is natural, I feel I have an obligation to my children to teach them how to act in public.  One does not say things like, \\"I farted,\\" or \\"Did you fart?\\" or \\"the elephant farted!\\" I would much prefer that, if my child need to say such a thing, he use a term such as \\"have gas,\\" \\"passed gas,\\" or if some slang term is really necessary, \\"toot.\\"  A bit of social grace goes a long way in the real world.<br />This book does have a bit of scientific explanation, but not much of one.  It basically teaches the child to laugh at flatulence, and say the word \\"fart\\" out loud and repeatedly as if is both funny and acceptable.  It DOESN'T teach the child how to discuss the subject discretely (like how to nicely let mommy know the child has passed or needs to pass gas), or how to ignore the smell when others do so rather than saying to them \\"He farted,\\" as I've seen some children do.  It teaches them relatively nothing useful.  <br />Secondly, the book looks like it was thrown together; the illustrations are drab and terribly drawn.  I could draw as well as the artist who did these. <br />I not only would NOT buy this for my child, but I would be somewhat upset if I learned someone had read this to my child at school or a friend's house.	2003-06-12
US	50300020	R10FG6T628VY5S	0307103080	758151943	60 Years of Little Golden Books: Limited Edition Anniversary Collection	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Adorable classic set!	I remember all of these books from when I was a child, and when I saw them as a set, I couldn't resist!  Almost all of the very most classic Little Golden Books are included (though The Little Red Caboose is not).  They are a bargain as a set, and are classic American children's books.  They are well-written, with beautiful illustrations.  It is hard to find the little Golden Books individually; the newer \\"Big\\" Golden Books are easier to find, but more expensive, and do not include some of these classics.  I figured out that I could buy this set for the price of two Big Golden Books.  Great buy!!!	2003-05-21
US	50300020	R3PTOM6CXH2FX8	0307103250	803458489	The Fuzzy Duckling (Big Little Golden Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darling classic	This book is an adorable, classic Golden Book.  The illustrations are beautiful, the story is sweet, and it also teaches counting and animals.  The duckling encounters 2 colts, then 3 cows, then 4 roosters, then 5 geese ... and so on until the lost little duckling is reaquainted with his mommy and 9 little brothers and sisters, making 10 little ducklings!  A darling, and educational, little book.	2003-05-15
