US	50319570	R2L8NSA3QDPN3M	0553578200	183251768	Instruments of Night	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Strong &quot;archaeomystery&quot; - 4.9 stars	I made up the term &quot;archaeomystery&quot; to designate the genre in which Thomas H. Cook is now specializing: mystery novels in which the crime took place 30 or more years ago.  In the typical Cook archaeomystery -  &quot;The Chatham School Affair,&quot; e.g. - there is little or no  present-day detection, and the narrative consists of the measured  revelation of events to the reader by the involved narrator.<br />In this  variation on the theme, novelist Paul Graves is invited to an estate on the  Hudson to &quot;imagine&quot; a solution to the 1946 murder of a  16-year-old girl.  Graves is the quasi-Cookish author of a series of novels  pitting the impotent Detective Slovak against the sadistic and omnipotent  Kessler and his apprentice/slave Sykes.  These novels are firmly rooted in  the horrible murder of Graves' own sister.  The 'revelation' theme is  played out in Graves' obsessively guilt-ridden memories of that murder.  There is not much mystery to it, but there doesn't have to be.<br />Meanwhile,  Graves joins forces with sympathetic playwright Eleanor Stern to peruse the  old files, photos, and reports, many made by the Slovak-ish detective  Portman in whose trail they are following.  Graves' imaginative talents are  about evenly split among reliving his past, reconstructing the day Faye  Harrison was strangled, and finishing up his last Slovak/Kessler novel (how  can you 'save' the detective who has become just about as weary of life as  the author?).  The ratio of detective work to brooding atmosphere is high  for a Cook novel; the dead ends and twists are handled very well.   <br />Cook's novels often leave you feeling drained after having been  masterfully shown the bleakness and pointlessness of life.  However,  &quot;Instruments&quot; is the most upbeat of Cook's novels, at least in  its attempt to rescue the protagonist from isolation and eternal  darkness.<br />In an interview available on the Net somewhere, Cook writes  that the hardest part of his writing is the conception of the  &quot;surprise&quot; at the end, which he says is &quot;expected&quot; of  him by now.  In general, this surprise is the least reliable part of Cook's  novels.  This may be just my own opinion, but I think that too often it  depends on someone having done something which the reader has no reason to  expect he/she would be psychologically capable of.  In &quot;The Chatham  School Affair&quot; he got it exactly right, I think; in &quot;Mortal  Memory&quot; and &quot;Breakheart Hill&quot;, it jars.  This is a  borderline case.  The Explanation almost works, and you can see, leafing  back through the novel, how there were clues.  But I don't think the clues  QUITE bear the weight of the explanation.  Furthermore I can't quite make  sense of the events that are supposed to have taken place in the critical  years.  For example (this will make sense only to people who have finished  the book), was the chain of ownership of the box publicly known during the  War?  Wasn't that risky?  Does it make sense that so-and-so was really a  'director'?  And how and why did Grossman turn up where he did?<br />Having  said this, however, I readily concede that it almost works even in my  opinion, and my opinions tend to be very picky and demanding about such  things.  I give it 4.9 stars, and many will go the extra tenth.	2000-07-18
US	50319570	R3VE721EAZ4V1M	0684855518	91466535	Bones: An Irene Kelly Mystery	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Strong, well-plotted, with some surprising twists	In this novel, intrepid reporter Irene Kelly is off on a camping trip into the mountains to dig up a body with a band of cops, forensic anthropologists, and an engaging cadaver-sniffing dog.  Oh, and an evil  captured serial killer, who has organized the excursion by promising to  show where he put the body.  Then they will all go back down the mountain  and the killer will go off to prison; such is the plan, but it's possible  there might be a glitch along the way.<br />Burke has come a long way from the  first books in the Irene Kelly series.  And so has Irene, for that matter.   Kelly is becoming a much deeper and more intelligent heroine.  She doesn't  walk into stupid traps like she used to; her thought processes are better,  and she does more deduction now.  I enjoy picking holes in plots and  finding fault, but I really don't have much to complain about here.  This  book has a lot of good action and suspense, the puzzles are not easy [I  picked up the same clue Irene did, but that's because I'm good ;-)  ], and  Kelly seems to have more of a real conscious life now, rather than just a  generator of metaphors and wisecracks.  <br />It's a good read.  If I decline  to say it's a great book, it's partly because it's a little bit too  formulaic, and it's an implausible formula.  It's the omniscient serial  killer again, very much like the omniscient serial killer in &quot;Dear  Irene&quot;, only more evil (but better crafted, I'll grant).  How many  omniscient serial killers would you expect to find around Las Piernas,  California?  The Amazon review says that Burke is realistically describing  a reporter's life, which is a hoot and a half - how many print reporters  have body parts left on their property about once a year?  How many are  repeatedly hunted by omniscient serial killers?  It's particularly rough  for Irene since the action in this novel apparently takes place only a  couple years after her debut, so really the whole series has hit her much  fasterthan it has hit us...  You may think I'm being picky here, because  hey, she's a reporter, there has to be an adventure, serial killers are  exciting, so lighten up!  But that's the difference between a good book and  a great one: a great one solves the problems that are hard to solve.  And  they often put in something extra about life, more than you get here.  If  you compare this with Laurie King's &quot;A Grave Talent&quot;, also about  a serial killer vs. female heroine in California, you can maybe see what I  mean.  Hey, four stars from me is nothing to sneeze at.	2000-07-12
US	50319570	RZVQ9Z5RXNQIU	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Frayn creates a masterpiece (in oil)	This is a novel about a painting; and it is also a novel about a middle-aged philosopher turned art historian, suffering from Peter Pan syndrome, subject to obsessive intellectual fits and get-rich-quick fevers.   Martin Clay, the philosopher, is a very flawed protagonist, a bungling  conniver, sort of like a more intelligent Basil Fawlty.  The painting, on  the other hand, is a treasure.  The comic Clay finds it stopping up a  fireplace in his comic neighbors' breakfast room, and he instantly falls  for it the way Dudley Moore falls for Bo Derek on the beach in  &quot;10&quot;:<br />&quot;I recognize it instantly. ... I'm looking down from  wooded hills into a valley.  The valley runs diagonally from near the  bottom left of the picture, with a river that meanders through it, past a  village, past a castle crowning a bluff, to a distant town at the edge of  the sea, close to the high horizon. .. Among the trees just below me is a  group of clumsy figures, some of them breaking branches of white blossom  from the trees, some caught awkwardly in the middle of a heavy clumping  dance.  A bagpiper sits on a stump; you can almost hear the harsh  pentatonic drone. .. [H]alf-hidden in the raw spring undergrowth, watched  only by a bird on a tree, a little thickset man holding two small wild  daffodils is expressionlessly touching his comically pouted lips to the  comically pouted lips of a little thick-set woman. .. A ship is setting  sail, bound for the hot south.  ... How can even these two fools not know  what it is?  I daren't think the name of its creator to myself, because it  simply cannot be so.&quot;<br />This very abbreviated excerpt only hints at  the loving craftsmanship with which Frayn has created this lost  masterpiece.  It is more real, more alive, better crafted, more memorable,  and more important to the reader than any of the characters in this novel.   It's not just the intricate detail of the painting itself: Frayn convinces  us that it's a painting which logically MUST exist, to make sense of the  rest of the artist's works which really do exist in our world.  After you  are done, you will have to shake yourself alert and remind yourself that  this painting is not known to have existed outside of Frayn's imagination,  such is the integrity and reality which Frayn has lent its creation.  I  consider this to be an impressive accomplishment.<br />The reader is fairly  warned up front that she/he will be asked to attend to some details of art  history and biography and to the history of the Netherlands under Spanish  rule in the mid-16th century.  The going is challenging but not impossible,  and if you don't follow all the details, still you will be able to grasp  the conclusions which they lead to about the unique importance of the  painting and Clay's frenzied passion for finding the answers which have  been put in his hand - or rather, which would be in his hand if it were now  his painting.  Which is the problem, of course: it's not.<br />So, while on  the one hand Clay engages in brain-wracking intellectual toil and surmise  to produce the answers which have eluded the guardians of culture of the  West for 450 years, on the other he is engaged in highly cinematic farce  involving plots, deceptions, trying to sneak into the neighbor's bedroom,  car chases, dogs, and the like.  In fact the structure of the action is  very much in tune with an Alec Guinness comedy, and has the same kind of  bittersweet taste at the end.  It would make a nice film if they could  figure out how to get the intellectual arguments into it! I don't say that  the novel is flawless, but it is a very unusual achievement.  Ultimately it  is a study of the dangerous lust of a foolish and unworthy married man for  a sublime and unattainable object.  The Moore-Derek metaphor holds up  rather well.  Except that Derek's beauty in &quot;10&quot; ultimately  proved not to really be worth so much fuss.  Not the case here - alas.	2000-07-11
US	50319570	RFUD0EJIMH3JW	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Entertaining schlock, with a dull thud at the end	As is made clear early on, Pat Lanigan, Grisham's protagonist here, stole $90 million from his law firm and their well-connected client 4 years ago and hid in Brazil.  But now everyone has caught up with him.  First, the  thugs working for the client and the stung insurers.  Then, the FBI.  He  gets sued for divorce, his unhappy wife's lover may put a contract on him,  he is facing a federal fraud rap, but that's the least of it: he is facing  prison and/or death in Mississippi on a homicide charge - who was that poor  sap whose body was found in the blazing car wreck, if it wasn't  Lanigan?<br />While his Brazilian lover tries to move the money around fast  enough to keep it ahead of the pursuers, the apparently multiply doomed  Lanigan, from his heavily guarded room in a military hospital, begins  playing his own cards.  One after another.  After another...<br />Well, it's  entertaining to see someone who has planned as well as Lanigan play his  cards, but after a while it's not suspenseful.  And I have to say that the  writing really flags during the last half of the book, as the stories get  told more than once, as Lanigan recounts 'what really happened', as you are  told what is going to happen, and then told when it happens, and as you  figure out exactly how this is all going to wind up.<br />Well, almost  exactly.  There is a surprise twist at the end which comes out of the blue,  and which no reader has liked or will like.  So the net effect is: you get  interested for a while, then somewhat numbed, and then someone hits you.  There is a lot of stuff out there that will interest you more and not hit  you at the end.	2000-07-10
US	50319570	RKTF3LOZFIXA6	0553571931	707466458	The Chatham School Affair	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A bleak masterpiece of psychological horror	Let me start off with a warning: even though this book is very good, and well deserves its Edgar, perhaps reading it will not be the best thing for you.<br />For one thing, its narrative structure requires some attention from  the reader.  The action on which the narrator reflects takes place in the  1920's.  The point of view shifts between the present and a moving index in  the past, an index which inexorably creeps up on the disaster.  Meanwhile  we are given misleading hints and scraps of information about what will  happen.  Actually, the narrative is not so much like seeing one thing, then  another.  It is like watching a dithered image come up on your computer  screen: first you get rough outlines, then the details are filled in, until  finally all the pixels are filled in.  But the last pixels are the  important ones, in this case.<br />Most intelligent readers can handle that  kind of variation from normal style, but some can't, and if you can't you  should read something else.  But that's not the main danger.  Once the  details are all filled in - on the last page - and you get a good look at  the picture, you will not be happier for it.  It will be sort of like one  of Dore's engravings for Dante's &quot;Inferno&quot;: a very well done  picture of something horrible.<br />I am using the words &quot;horror&quot;  and &quot;horrible&quot; in a very deliberate sense.  I don't mean in the  Stephen King sense of non-human ghouls and monsters.  What I am associating  with the word &quot;horror&quot; is a sense of inescapable disaster  befalling people who don't deserve it, and for no reason that you will find  at all compatible with the notion of a &quot;fair universe&quot;.  It's not  enjoyable to look at, and that's why the craft of horror writing often  involves sneaking up on the reader and sticking it in his/her face before  he/she can get away.<br />Well, after you have allowed yourself to care for  the characters - and there are no villains in the piece- you will, at the  end, find out who dies, and how, and who suffers, and how, and why. And it  will be a very bleak picture - a picture of great artistic integrity, but  without any pleasant highlights whatever.  And there is a distinct  possibility that you will say to yourself, &quot;Why did I read this?  Why  did I look upon this picture, which will now depress me for the rest of the  day or longer?&quot;<br />I'm really not kidding about this.  However, on  balance, I am glad I read this book.  It is, in fact, a horror novel about  ethics.  The disaster which envelops the narrator (then an adolescent boy  at his father's private school on Cape Cod), and the teachers he loves, and  everyone and everything else he values, is ultimately one of conflicting  imperatives.  Conform to hidebound convention, or cast it off?  Follow your  heart, or lock it away?  Do your duty, or abandon it?  Help your loved  ones, or remain aloof?  Mercy, or accountability?  St. Augustine, I think,  made the point that sin is virtue perverted or overdone.  Therefore, the  mere fact that you are acting on an ethical imperative is no insurance that  you won't have blood on your hands.  But to know what virtue has been  perverted into what catastrophic sin by whom, you have to wait for the last  pixel.	2000-07-09
US	50319570	R3RU4GKXKQ9B2W	0684859203	363131804	Noah's Flood: The New Scientific Discoveries About The Event That Changed History	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Fascinating story, somewhat marred by whiz-bang tone	This book presents and supports a startling but fascinating thesis in three parts:<br />The oceanographic part: that a remarkable natural event took place some 7,500 years ago, when the waters of the Mediterranean spilled  over a natural dam and poured into the Black Sea basin, at that time  containing a fresh-water lake which had evaporated to some 300 ft. below  sea level.<br />The first archaeological part: that the Black Sea basin at the  time was home to an early Indo-European culture, later than the Catal Huyuk  culture, and that the catastrophic flood dispersed an Indo-European  diaspora to the four winds.<br />The second archaeological part: accounts of  this event gave rise to the Mesopotamian flood accounts such as that in  Gilgamesh, and ultimately to the story of Noah in the Book of  Genesis.<br />The authors make a case for all this which is convincing at  least on the surface.  Their own background is geologic/oceanographic, and  probably by consequence the first part is the most convincing.  (Or it may  just be because a submerged beach is easier to find than a drowned  culture.)  Well, if indeed there is a submerged canyon cut in bedrock at  the northeastern end of the Bosporus, leading INTO the Black Sea, then at  some time a lot of water must have flowed in that direction; and if there  are salt-water shells overlying a layer of fresh-water shells, and  radiocarbon shows the lower shells to be 7500 years old; then their case  seems pretty strong.<br />The archaeological stuff is presented in a  considerably more disjointed way; there is a long discussion of the  Tocharians, a Caucasian people who lived in central Asia until the Takla  Makan dried up, who were interesting enough people, I suppose, but the  discussion does nothing much for their argument.  Still, once you have  granted that there was a huge flood in the Black Sea basin as recently as  7500 years ago, then there's nothing very improbable about supposing that  it displaced Neolithic people, or that it has something to do with the  later flood stories that popped up in the general vicinity.  Or so it seems  to me anyway.<br />It is hard to spoil a story like this, but the authors,  unfortunately, almost manage it.  Somehow they hit on a very bad idea about  how to tell this story.  They concluded that the raw science was not  exciting enough, so they had to jazz it up by telling it as a series of  anecdotes about scientists, making them all seem like Indiana Jones.  It's  as if it's written for an audience with the education of college graduates  and the sensibility of high school boys.  The book is illustrated with  charcoal drawings of these Exciting Adventures.  Thus, the first picture in  the book is &quot;Henry Creswicke Rawlinson falling down the face of the  Behistun rock.&quot;  I personally would rather have a nice photograph of  the Behistun rock.  Later on, we are given a breathless account of how Jiri  Kukla got into the Eighth Congress of the International Association for  Quarternary Research without paying.  I don't mind the anecdote, but it's  irritating to have these anecdotes frame the whole account.<br />In accord  with the general plan of being exciting, we are given dramatic  reconstructions (stories) of witnesses and survivors of the flood, and of  &quot;Nur-Aya, the renowned scribe and storyteller&quot;, telling a version  of the Flood Story in Assyria.  These would work better if the tone of the  rest of the work were more neutral.<br />This stylistic flaw leads to a more  serious flaw. By turning the whole thing into a whole series of Amazing  Stories, the authors never allow themselves time to step back and look at  the response to their theses in the field as a whole. As I say, the  evidence they present is convincing to ME.  But then who am I?  I'm no  expert on oceanography or archaeology.  It's easy to spin a yarn that will  fool me.  What I want to know is whether these theses are convincing to  other people in the fields.  Is there acceptance?  Are there objections or  reservations?  What's the next place to look for supporting evidence?   Instead, the reader may be left with the nagging worry: is this accepted  science, or is this a crackpot scenario, or a mixture of the  two?<br />However, while I am bugged by these problems, I am not as bugged as  some; I think the theses is exciting enough, and the science convincing  enough, that the book is still well worth reading anyway.	2000-07-06
US	50319570	R17BBR3R3299Y2	0786889306	974363020	Cimarron Rose (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Strong, deep writing. Ranks with other masterworks	All right, for some reason I haven't been familiar with Burke's writing up to now.  Nobody e-mailed me about him.  I was surfing the Mystery Writers' Association website and I noticed that Burke has this habit of winning  Edgar awards over and over, so I thought I'd check him out.<br />This is one  of the Edgar winners, and it supports my previously-expressed hypothesis  that they don't give out the award by drawing names out of a hat.  This is  a very strong novel with a West Texas small-city/rural voice, with currents  of Ross MacDonald and Dashiell Hammett, a touch of Larry McMurtry, and  highlights of raspberry, chocolate, and tobacco.  I'm sorry about the  'highlights', I realized I sounded as if I was describing wine and couldn't  resist.  <br />I mean the other stuff, though, and it's all complimentary.  By  referring to MacDonald, I mean that Burke displays the same sense of  complexity: of setting, of interaction.  I mean, everyone has a history,  everyone has secrets, and not just every major and minor character, but  every place, every barn and lot and stream.  And all of these secrets are  liable to bubble up and confuse everyone at any moment and knock the plot  into a new and surprising direction.  Nobody is carrying out any one plan.   Everyone has a lot of things on his/her mind.  It's the exact opposite of  the sense that you get with one of these serial-killer novels where the  villain is omnipotent and single-minded and supremely organized and does  nothing all day except perfect his serial killing plan.  Here most of the  people are at least somewhat friendly and at least somewhat dangerous, and  the tensions seldom get resolved.<br />However, Burke's style is not  MacDonald's brooding tapestry of similes; it's much more like Hammett,  spare, brisk, and violent; for example:<br />&quot;... [I] rode my Morgan up  on the porch and through the doorway, ducking down on his withers to get  under the jamb. ..<br />&quot;'I hope you brung your own dustpan and whisk  broom,' the bartender said.<br />&quot;I rode the Morgan between a cluster of  tables and chairs and across a small dance floor toward the pool table.   The man eating from a paper plate looked at me, smiling, a spoonful of  chili half-way to his mouth ... I whipped the loop three times over my head  and flung it at the man with the blond beard ... He tried to rise from the  chair and free himself, but I wound the rope tightly around the pommel,  brought my left spur into the Morgan's side, and catapulted the blond man  off his feet and dragged him caroming through tables and bar stools and  splintering chairs, into an oak post and the legs of a pinball machine and  the side of the jukebox, tearing a huge plastic divot out of the  casing.&quot;<br />Note how he uses the rhythm of the clauses to pace the  action, short and simple as the action impends, then exploding along with  the action into a sprawling run-on sentence.    The action leaps along; the  average 'scene' is a page or a page and a half long, and since something  happens in every 'scene', by the time you are on page 10, things are moving  fast and furious.  This is also very much like Hammett: think about  &quot;Red Harvest&quot;, for example.<br />Later, the county D.A.  complains:<br />&quot;I work in a county that's so corrupt I have to confide  in a defense lawyer who rides his horse into barrooms.  I grant you, it's a  pitiful situation.&quot;  <br />That last line is the sort of thing that makes  me think of McMurtry - I mean the best McMurtry, &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;  in particular.  Isn't that a gem?  Can't you imagine Woodrow Call saying  that?  Or maybe it isn't McMurtry at all, maybe they just really talk like  that all the time in West Texas, and Burke and McMurtry are just reporting  it.  Whichever, it's an attractive feature.<br />The narrator, Billy Bob  Holland, is a former Texas Ranger who has retreated into criminal defense  work in self-imposed penance for accidentallyshooting his partner and best  friend, L. Q. Navarro, in a chaotic battle with drug smugglers down in  Coahuila.  He sees Navarro everywhere and talks with him, but these  dialogues don't hurt the plot much.  He is also re-reading his  great-grandfather's journals, which are the stuff of a novel in themselves,  in an attempt (I guess) to explore the question of whether and how you can  get out of the rut of living in a violent and self-destructive culture.   You can either treat this as an interesting interlude, or skip over it, or  try to tie it in convincingly with the main action.  I never really managed  this last, but it doesn't bother me much.<br />The plot starts off with  Holland being summoned to defend a young man on charges of rape and murder,  and the trial winds up near the end of the book, but to say that the book  is 'about' the trial is to ignore the 15 other subplots that turn the  narrative structure into a 'bush' rather than a 'ladder'.  I guess the book  is mainly about trying to do what's right even if you live in a really  corrupt county and have a great burden of shame of your own.  Unless you  argue that the style itself is the content, as if it were a work of  instrumental music.  Whichever.  Anyway, I recommend this book very highly.	2000-06-30
US	50319570	R1M2TH16BGZBEF	0380723506	265079533	Sweet Dreams, Irene (Irene Kelly Mysteries)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Burke works out the bugs	This is the second &quot;Irene Kelly&quot; from Jan Burke, who eventually went on to win an Edgar award for &quot;Bones&quot;.  Kelly began life in &quot;Goodnight, Irene&quot; as a reporter in the city of &quot;Las  Piernas&quot; (&quot;The Legs&quot;) on the coast south of Los Angeles.  Kelly is the most assault prone reporter in the world leaving out Colombia  and Chechniya.  We have a newscaster in Chicago named Russ Ewing who has  become the guy that accused killers call up to turn themselves in to so the  police don't kill them.  He has had something like 50 or 70 accused killers  turn themselves in to him and hasn't been wounded once, yet Irene sustains  more injuries than James Garner did in &quot;The Rockford Files&quot;.  Go  figure.<br />Anyway, I wrote an Amazon review of &quot;Goodnight, Irene&quot;  in which I identified many &quot;beginners' faults&quot; of detective  writing.  The good news is that &quot;Sweet Dreams&quot; corrects many of  these faults and is thus a significant improvement over her first volume.   I will take credit for this myself when I figure out how she read my review  in 1993.<br />To begin with, the plot, which involves real or imagined  Satanist activity at election time, is a lot more original and better  designed than in her first work.  Irene has stopped riding around in the  cop car with her beau Frank all the time, which was an improbable feature  of &quot;Goodnight.&quot;  She does more actual detection here than there.   She tosses the blood around with less slapdash abandon in this book,  although there's still room for improvement.  For example, when a bloody  human heart turns up, it doesn't get the attention that it really should,  you know?  The police test it to confirm that it's really human blood, but  there doesn't seem to be much interest in WHOSE heart it is, etc.,  particularly considering that they should be able to make the same guess  that the reader does.<br />One carry-over from the first book is thatIrene is  still prone to falling into stupid traps, as Frank points out:<br />&quot;Why  the hell did you go out to that field that night?&quot;  <br />&quot;I've  asked myself that question many times.&quot;<br />&quot;I just don't  understand it.  You're smart.  But I swear to God, Irene, sometimes you do  something so...&quot;<br />&quot;Stupid,&quot; I finished quietly.<br />Well,  *sigh* knowing you have a problem is the first step.  Also, I have to say  that the action flags a bit about three quarters of the way through, and  after that there is some Penguin's Folly stuff.  I just now invented that  term.  &quot;Penguin's Folly&quot; is from the 1960's Batman TV series,  which was on for two half-hour segments per week.  At the end of the  Tuesday night segment, the Penguin (or whoever) would tie Batman and Robin  to a death machine, and then RUN OFF AND LEAVE THEM UNATTENDED.  Every  time.  And then at the beginning of the Thursday night segment, Batman and  Robin would get out of it.  Hence the term, &quot;Penguin's  Folly.&quot;<br />I also have to say that Kelly is not nearly so  well-described or deep a character as she could be; she doesn't seem to  have much in the way of higher interests, other than reporting, Frank's  body, and staying alive.  This has something to do with the breakneck style  that Burke is using in these early volumes (she may change later), where  you have not much chance to catch your breath, and the text is full of  elaborate &quot;detective story style&quot; metaphors the way a box of  Ghirardelli's chocolates is full of grams of fat.<br />So there's still room  for improvement in this volume, but the learning curve from  &quot;Goodnight, Irene&quot; to this one is encouraging, and in fact her  third volume, &quot;Dear Irene&quot;, is better yet.	2000-06-29
US	50319570	R369QXFD4MKZUS	006105710X	705657660	Fortress of Eagles (Fortress Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Deliberate pace, detail improve on &quot;Eye of Time&quot;	This book follows the action of &quot;Fortress in the Eye of Time&quot; and marches forward into a new series of unknown length: &quot;Fortress of Owls&quot; and &quot;Fortress of Dragons&quot; follow, and it doesn't end  there, so we may have to wait a year or two to get the ending!  Fortunately  Cherryh writes fast, and we probably will not have to wait as long as we  will for the conclusion of Jordan's &quot;Wheel of Time&quot;.<br />Without  going into all the Cherryhshly complex history of the world, the situation  at the end of &quot;Eye&quot; was pretty much like this.  One of the chief  protagonists is Cefwyn, newly the king of Ylesuin, his father having died  in the course of &quot;Eye&quot;.  The political situation in his realm is  something like 14th-century Britain or France: that is to say that he is  not one of those absolute rulers of later centuries, but is trying to reign  over a large number of largely autonomous lords who are continually  plotting with and against each other and with whom he has to practically  renegotiate his sovereignty every time he turns around.  Across the river  from Ylesuin is Elwynor, to whose young queen, Ninevrise, Cefwyn is  betrothed.  Most of her realm is in the hands of rebels hostile to Ylesuin,  however, as a result of the sorcerous conflict recounted in  &quot;Eye&quot;.  Cefwyn must unify his realm, wage war on the Elwynoran  rebels, and restore Ninevrise to her throne.  This task will take at least  four volumes (depending on how many volumes will follow  &quot;Dragons&quot;).<br />Cefwyn's most loyal and problematic ally is  Tristen, who is not &quot;of woman born,&quot; but a &quot;Shaping&quot;  created by Mauryl the wizard (now deceased), raised to adulthood in a few  months' time, and still largely naive about the stuff of human life.   Tristen is thoroughly good and innocent, but is likely to be the  reincarnation of a dangerous wizard-lord of the past.  Of course he has  magic running out of his ears, and in &quot;Eye&quot; was mainly on hand to  blast the evil sorcerous revenant Hasufin by indescribable means.<br />I read  &quot;Fortress in the Eye of Time&quot; a few years ago, and am only now  catching up with the sequels. I'll be very honest here:  I didn't like  &quot;Eye of Time&quot; all that much.  The hero who is weak, the flawed,  innocent, crippled hero, the hero who is not quite what we think of as  human, the fool-as-hero: this is a common theme in Cherryh's work, but I  found Tristen a bit overdrawn for my taste in &quot;Eye&quot;.  And then  there is the whole theme of the newbie wizard who discovers how to defeat  the powers of Evil just by Discovering Who He Is, without having to do any  work hardly - a theme which is a cliche' in the Fantasy genre, and a  cliche' which is just not to my taste.<br />In my view, however, the pace and  tone of &quot;Eagles&quot; and the succeeding volumes (well,  &quot;Owls&quot; anyway, which I've read) are much different from &quot;Eye  of Time&quot;, AND are an improvement on it.  Gone is the breathless  urgency of &quot;Eye&quot;, punctuated by battles and megamagic attacks and  wizards' duels.  The pace has become MUCH slower, much more deliberate. Now  we have embarked on a political and military campaign which will take  months and months to complete in the world of Ylesuin, and several volumes  (years) to describe in our own world.  <br />And Cherryh is going to describe  it all to us very painstakingly, making very clear to us all the  considerations that King Cefwyn and Lord Tristen and their servants and  vassals both loyal and treacherous are going to have to deal with.  The  complex loyalties of blood, state, feudal allegiance, and sect are going to  be explained to us in detail.  Of course anyone familiar with Cherryh knows  that NOBODY does as well creating a complex world as she.  We will also  hear about their horses, their letters, their accounts, their grain, their  boats, their weather.  We are boating down a long, meandering river through  a majestic landscape, as it were, and Cherryh is NOT going to spoil it by  moving too fast.<br />Furthermore, the direct clash of wizardries has been  pulled considerably back from center stage.  Tristen's actions are now much  more those of the Lord of Ynefel and Althalen than those of an  incomprehensible sorcerous wild card, as compared with &quot;Eye&quot;.  He  is more mature and more aware: still morally innocent, but much less alien  to us. I find this an improvement.  Cherryh's only flaw is a slight  tendency to make her protagonists so convincingly alien that we can't  identify with them or even understand what the hell they are up to.  She  avoids this in the Chanur/Merchanter volumes, but you see it in the  &quot;Faded Sun&quot; volumes and &quot;Serpent's Reach&quot; for example.   And there is a little of this in the Tristen of &quot;Eye&quot;, but with  &quot;Eagles&quot; we get a much more &quot;reader-friendly&quot; Tristen.  <br />It comes down to a matter of taste.  If you really really liked  &quot;Fortress in the Eye of Time&quot;, then you may not like  &quot;Eagles&quot; and its successor volumes of unknown number nearly as  much.  They ARE different: much slower, less wizardry, less general  weirdness, more political intrigue, more detail, and there's no telling how  long the river is going to be.  But these are exactly the reasons I like  the successor &quot;Fortress&quot; volumes better.  I appreciate the scope  and precision of the work Cherryh is now undertaking.  Its only drawback,  I'm afraid, is that it's not done yet.	2000-06-28
US	50319570	R1JSKT4V0UE204	0553573993	573440744	A Grave Talent	Books	5	31	33	N	N	A masterwork of the genre.	So, this is what won Laurie King the Edgar for best first novel ten years ago!  I came to it late, having first read her Holmes/Russell series.  Naturally my hopes were high. I was not disappointed.<br />At any given time  there are now about 6,976 paperback novels about police trying to catch  serial killers available at the virtual and real booksellers'.  If you go  by the publishers' blurbs, they are all equally superb.  In fact, however,  thousands of them are garbage; hundreds are not complete wastes, especially  if you get them from the library; several dozen are worth rereading; but  only a handful are the real masterworks of the genre.  -Red Dragon-, for  example.  And this volume.  The masterworks are recognizable.  You know  what it's like?  It's like taking the Oak Park architectural tour here  (metro Chicago) and getting ready to see your first Frank Lloyd Wright  house.  You go up the street and you see some rather modern-looking  structures and you think, &quot;is that one of them?  It's not so  special.&quot;  Then you turn a corner and see the genuine article, and you  see that you will never be confused again.  You will know a Wright house  when you see one.  It really IS different.<br />What is the difference?  Let's  start with characters.  Many detective series have no single original or  memorable character, including the detective.  Some are of superior  quality: the detective IS memorable, and maybe the villain as well.  This  book, however, abounds with memorable and sharply drawn characters.  And I  don't just mean being pulled from a grab-bag of attributes, like the  episode where Frasier does the &quot;Nightmare Inn&quot; radio play, and  the suspects include an Englishman, a German, an Irishman, a Chinese man,  and &quot;Beppo the dwarf.&quot;  I mean something like a Victor Hugo  novel, where the supporting characters are given dignity and purpose, and  ornament the story lavishly.  Two thirds of the way through the novel, as  one example, we meet a memorable precocious 7-year-old.  Why?  Is she being  set up to fool the villain in the last chapter?  No - she doesn't do  anything special.  Why does King create this character then?  Because she  can.  Because the novel is lusher and more pleasurable to read with her in  it.<br />Now let's move on from character to philosophy!  I use this phrase  advisedly, because that's how it actually works in the novel.  One of the  chief characters is the renowned artist who was convicted of murdering a  child 17 years ago, and who now falls under suspicion when children's  bodies begin to turn up all around her secluded retreat.  Any number of  works of crime fiction include &quot;artist characters&quot;.  King,  however, attempts to actually describe the artist's works, school of  painting, and intentions, with such detail that you can actually see the  individual works, follow the critical debate about her work, and understand  the immense and serious talent that she actually possesses.  Ultimately we  are led to care about things much more important and deep than simply  &quot;punishing the killer&quot;, and perhaps as important as  &quot;stopping anyone else from getting killed.&quot;  The final climax is  saved from triteness by the fact that it is not just about people fighting,  it is about Valuable things like love, art, and talent.<br />The plot moves  quickly along.  Some developments and twists are apparent ahead of time,  but the detectives are not fools and successfully keep up with the clever  reader and often get ahead.  <br />Stepping back a bit, let's appreciate the  merely (?) &quot;decorative.&quot;  King has enough confidence in her  abilities to throw little grace notes into the mix.  A little trick is  played on the reader very early, and only 100 pages later do you realize  (if you're like me) that you've been subtly had.  King  varies the  narrative structure with flashbacks, flash-forwards, and asides to the  reader (this is very reminiscent of Thomas Harris), and her sense of  seasoning is entirely reliable.<br />This book is an endorsement of the notion  that Edgar awards are not bestowed by pulling the names of the year's  mystery novels out of a hat.	2000-06-06
US	50319570	R3MOQFZ6DOKUYZ	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Card Cheats	Two separate reviews on the back cover of the paperback edition use the same phrase:<br />&quot;Card has raised to a fine art the creation of suspense by means of ethical dilemmas&quot; - Chicago Sun-Times<br />&quot;hard ethical  dilemmas..&quot; - NY Daily News<br />These dilemmas are indeed raised, faced,  and discussed by the characters, including Ender, Valentine, and the  various battling members of the Ribeira family.  (Warning: if you haven't  read the preceding volumes, Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead, which  are both excellent, you are very likely to be completely lost in this  volume.)<br />However, when it comes to resolving them....<br />There was a kind  of science fiction story, more popular in the 1950's than recently, in  which humans would get themselves out of intractible scrapes by reinventing  physical law.  You couldn't beat those humans, by golly!  If a crew got  stranded somewhere, they would invent a few new laws of motion, then whomp  up a faster-than-light drive or a perpetual motion machine out of spare  parts.  The rule was, &quot;When all possible solutions fail, pick an  impossible one and make it work.&quot;  Nothing was too far out.  I  remember that the punch line of one such story was &quot;We brought the  planet with us.&quot;  If individuals got stranded alone without a  laboratory, necessity would impart to them the skills of  teleportation.<br />To get away with this kind of nonsense you need a certain  kind of brassy showmanship: you can't convince the reader it's not a trick,  but you can make it fun.  Van Vogt was good at this.  In Rogue Ship, one of  his characters wakes up his pal and tells him, &quot;Hey, I've discovered  the secret of the universe!&quot;  And he had: &quot;The universe is a  lie!&quot;  This meant he could do all kinds of amazing stuff, like going  places by thinking about it.<br />Xenocide is ostensibly a much different book  in style, emphasis, areas of focus, mood, and characterization.  There are  some inventive Card touches: a subplot involving super-intelligent prophets  with obsessive-compulsive disorder on a Chinese-settled planet is good.   And suspense is indeed created through a set of dilemmas which appear to  pit humans, pequeninos, the hive queen, Jane the intelligent program (as  she is thought to be), and the arguably-intelligent descolada virus against  each other in an inescapable Hobbesian war of all species against  all.<br />But when it comes close to the time of actually making the hard  choices, we start to see stuff like this:<br />&quot;We're on the verge of  reconceptualizing the universe.  We've discovered the illuminating  principle that wishing makes it so...&quot;<br />I hardly have to point out  how closely this parallels the Van Vogt device above!  But while it works  for Van Vogt, in Card's novel it falls with a hollow thud.  The reader can  see it coming, because early on Card throws in some stuff about how all  mass-energy has been proved by experiments on the planet  &quot;Ganges&quot;, which nobody tried to replicate because of the  universal heavy hand of scientific dogma, to be composed of  &quot;philotes&quot; which are like little souls for all atoms, particles,  planets, people, etc.  (By the way, this is sort of like another Van Vogt  invention, &quot;adeledicnander,&quot; from another novel!)  By bringing  together the proper group of High-Tension Thinkers (to borrow from Doc  Smith) to ponder these matters for a couple weeks, it is discovered that  the beleaguered Lusitanians can do - well - all sorts of amazing stuff.  <br />Well, if you are writing whiz-bang space opera and use such devices,  that's one thing.  But if you are supposedly dealing seriously with  &quot;ethical dilemmas&quot; and writing a cycle about &quot;the ethical  awakening of humanity&quot;, as the blurb to the sequel says, I believe it  is just cheating to change the rules of the game so drastically.  In  Valentine's words, &quot;It would betoo idiotically convenient if the  universe could be manipulated to work this way.&quot;<br />Furthermore, there  is the added drawback that additional baggage, residue, and characters are  created (sic) which/who clutter up the plot considerably as the saga moves  into volume 4, &quot;Children of the Mind.&quot;  Ultimately there are  enough good Card tricks here to keep this from being a bad book, but I  don't think it's a really good one either.	2000-06-02
US	50319570	R2V7JQHU823U0B	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	6	7	N	N	-Crime and Punishment- at a college in Vermont	Oh, come on! you may say.  Maybe this is a good read, a good psychological thriller, maybe even &quot;top-flight entertainment&quot;, but are you seriously going to compare Tartt's novel to Dostoevsky's?<br />Only time can  tell whether this volume will ever get the recognition of Dosotevsky's  novel or murder and the consciousness of sin.  (As a practical matter, it  will help if Tartt produces some more equally strong novels.  Single novels  get forgotten.)  However, I feel compelled to say that this novel does  indeed have some virtues which set it apart from, and above, other  entertaining thrillers, and which make it deserving of closer  attention.<br />First, before we forget it, Tartt's description of the College  setting is very good, very strong, and very evocative, in the same way, for  example, that &quot;The Magnificent Ambersons&quot; provides a picture of  small-town life in the Midwest.  This is not a trivial thing.  There are  plenty of books describing war, for example, and yet most of us have not  been to war; but most of us in the U.S. have been to college, recently or  not.  In my case it was not so recent - it has been 30 years since I lived  in a dorm, but that was a crucial time in my life, my development.  And as  I read this book, those times came back to me.  I was reminded of the  realities of the meal plan, of libraries, of registration cards, of  managing the money from home, of keeping secrets from your parents, of  deciding what to do during break, of trying to have friends and having them  and caring about them and having horrible fights with them, and of creating  oneself as a person through one's handling of all these minutiae.  Please  don't suppose that I am just being nostalgic about my lovely college days.   In fact they were largely disorganized and depressed in my case.  But they  were important.  That period in one's life is sort of like the Cambrian  explosion in the history of life on earth, in which new patterns of  organization and behavior were tried, discarded, and replaced, in a  dizzying whirl never to recur, whose residues and contingencies have  irretrievably shaped all the plans and routines that have followed.  It is  no small thing to be writing about them with understanding and even with  respect.<br />On top of that, however, Tartt presents us characters who find  themselves grappling with really important and enduring moral issues.   These questions deserve discussion.  In fact, this book would be excellent  material for a book club, or for an 'ethics through literature' class in  college or even for advanced high-schoolers.  Or for that matter to  recommend to your friends so you can argue with them about it after you  read it.<br />Ideally you will be lucky enough to read the book without too  much information or preconceptions about the plot.  I am not so much  concerned with 'suspense' and 'surprise' as I am with the issue of the  structure of the book and the measured way in which the moral questions are  raised to the protagonist and to the reader by Tartt.  Richard begins by  wanting what we all want: recognition - affection - the pleasures of being  accepted as part of an in-group.  Friends.  He appreciates his friends.  He  is loyal to them.  And then he discovers that they have a terrible secret  and are in desperate trouble.  <br />This is where the issue of timing comes  in.  If you read a two-paragraph plot summary, it is easy to talk about how  terrible and selfish these characters are and how anyone but a moral  imbecile would run immediately to the police.  But when the issues are  presented to you with deliberate torpor, blended with the details of life,  when the crisis sneaks up on you, it is different.  You wonder, or you  ought to wonder, what the characters can possibly do other than what they  actually do.  You believe, or fear, that you might do the same things, that  they are natural things to do.  Isn't it right to survive?  Isn't it right  to help your friends survive?  Are you prepared to give up your life, their  lives, for the sake of law and morality?  How much are your friends' lives  worth compared to the life of a stranger with a different background?   Isn't this an important and commonly raised question?  Isn't this why cops  kill unarmed civilians, why air forces bomb children - because the lives  and interests of the in-group are normally and naturally valued above the  life of some stranger, some preferably nameless person?<br />But our  protagonists are compelled - IF that is the word - to move on to more and  more desperate measures.  To protect themselves from destruction, they  plunge ahead into the heart of moral darkness, into terror, into violence,  into guilt and shame.  Because it is painful to have to look to closely at  the holes you have torn in the flesh of other people's lives.  In this  Tartt's characters are less fortunate than cops and bomber pilots.  The  fabric of their lives, their prized circle, their friendship, itself shreds  and falls away.<br />Yet even after you have seen the results, you still feel  you might have done the same things.  By 'you' I don't mean the  protagonists, I mean YOU after you have read the book.  More precisely, I  mean I.  This is a book which you will not forget having read.  Its pace is  a bit too deliberate in some places, and I'm not entirely satisfied with   the denouement, but I still think it's a strong and important work.	2000-05-30
US	50319570	R10K46UDS4COX4	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Audacious, ambitious, and almost flawless.  4.8 stars	Many, many people have tried to continue the Sherlock Holmes legend with pastiches and unauthorized sequels.  I have read a fair number of them, and most of them are not very successful, even the ones that try the hardest to  adhere to the 'canon', or display the author's tireless researches into the  minutiae of Victorian/Edwardian London.<br />So what can you expect of a book  audacious enough to saddle Holmes with a 15-year-old American female  apprentice/partner/potential love interest?   I mean, talk about  chutzpah! <br />But you can't argue with success.  This is far and away the  best continuation of the Holmes legend I have ever read.  It leaves  Gardner's &quot;The Seven Percent Solution,&quot; for example, in the dust.   In fact, to tell the truth, the writing is mostly better than Arthur Conan  Doyle's.  It is, in fact, the best mystery novel I have read since about a  year ago when I went through all of Elizabeth George's stuff.<br />This novel  is hitting on all eight cylinders from the moment Mary Russell, her nose in  a book, stumbles across Holmes (literally) on the Sussex downs.  I refuse  to spoil the scene by paraphrasing it - it's just too perfect.  Master and  apprentice immediately recognize each other: &quot;When the teacher is  ready, the student will appear.&quot;<br />The author unhurriedly follows the  Russell/Holmes duo through some smaller adventures into the major plot of  the novel, which is correct strategy.  The characterization and writing are  superb throughout.<br />This is a feminist historical novel in the best and  most successful sense.  This is to say that it is not like the many less  successful versions in which the heroine is forced to spend all her time  arguing about what a woman should or should not be doing, as, for example,  in all of Anne Perry's well-intentioned, readable, intelligent, but  somewhat preachy works.  King doesn't bother with that.  Instead, she  merely has Russell demonstrate on each page that she isa worthy partner of  Holmes, THE partner, in fact, who is indispensible to him.  When, in a  moment of weakness, Holmes proposes to leave her out of the action, she  lays down the law: <br />&quot;My dear Holmes, I am going to pretend you did  not say that.  I am going to walk in your garden and admire the flowers for  approximately ten minutes. When I come back in we will begin this  conversation anew, and unless you wish to divorce yourself from me  entirely, the idea of protecting little Mary Russell will never enter your  head.&quot;<br />I hope one does not have to be Holmes or Russell to deduce  that I am quite enthusiastic about this book!  <br />All right, so why didn't  I give it five stars?   Well, it is very hard to get that fifth star out of  me.  For me, three stars is OK, four stars is very good indeed, and five  stars is virtually flawless.  There were a few flaws in this volume which I  finally, regretfully, decided that I couldn't overlook.  I think the plot  is questionable in the last hundred pages.  The Major Villain does too many  things just to tease Holmes, and there are a couple plot elements that go  nowhere.  Also there is some &quot;talking killer&quot; stuff, although you  could easily claim that this is necessary to adhere to the spirit of the  original, since in volumes like &quot;A Study in Scarlet&quot; fully half  the book is taken up by the killer's recitation!  The chess stuff should  have been left out or at least rewritten with the advice of someone who can  play better than King seems to.  If this sounds like nitpicky stuff, maybe  you're right!  The real truth of the matter is that in my rating system  this is a 4.8 star book.  I'm glad I paid good money for it, I will re-read  it, and I intend to read the other volumes in the series as well.	2000-05-25
US	50319570	R2WUAATA59U9AW	0375754741	368327816	The Last Place on Earth: Scott and Amundsen's Race to the South Pole, Revised and Updated (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An instructive gem, now affordable in softcover.  Get it.	I first read this excellent work about ten years ago in the hardcover version (in my university library).  I was fascinated and impressed by it, and have thought about it many times since.  The series edited by Jon  Krakauer has done a very good thing in releasing it in softcover.   Naturally I did not waste a minute before purchasing it.<br />Let me start off  by saying that above and beyond all the issues of historiography, this is a  marvelously well-written book.  It is an exemplar of historical argument,  not merely a collection of facts arranged in chronological order.  It is an  investigation, an inquest, into the events of 1911-1912, in which two  parties attempted to reach the South Pole from opposite sides of  Antarctica; one arrived first, and came back unscathed; and one arrived  second, and then perished one and all in the cold and dark.  Was this just  fate, or was it the result of factors of organization and personality?<br />In  Huntford's vision, we are presented with two parallel novels, sort of like  the panels of a diptych on either side of a medieval altar, one showing the  blessed going to heaven, the other showing the damned going to perdition.   The Amundsen party, blessed with a good, careful, insightful, and  thoughtful leader, advances toward success.  Meanwhile, the unfortunate  Scott party advances toward its death - not &quot;ill-fated&quot;, but  &quot;ill-led&quot; - doomed by bad choices of equipment, methods,  personnel, and timetable.<br />The drama and horror of the deaths of the Scott  party, as described here, has stayed with me for years.  So have some of  the lessons of the volume. It was Scott of whom the movies were made and  the symphonies written, but it is really the Amundsens whose lessons we  should learn, because it is better to succeed and live than to fail and  perish in the blizzard with all your friends and followers.  For years I  would remember this book whenever issues of leadership and planning would  come up in areas of my life far removed from polar exploration.  Now I am  very happy to actually own the book and to be able to re-read it and refer  to it at my leisure.  I enthusiastically recommend it.	2000-05-25
US	50319570	R1EAU9TJ3WEEH7	0451457005	229757319	Into the Forge (Hel's Crucible, Book 1)	Books	1	10	15	N	N	Boring ripoff wore me out early	I like fantasy.  I will read even junk fantasy.  I read quite fast and am willing to skim through pretty much anything.  But I just couldn't finish this darned book.  I bought this book, plunged into it, got to page 106 out  of 410, and just surrendered.  I couldn't read any more.  This is a very  rare experience for me.<br />First off, this book is not a veiled ripoff of  Tolkien because THERE IS NO VEIL.  A couple of hobbits [Mckiernan  translation: warrows], who are good with bows and slings, are given a magic  ring [uh, a coin with a hole punched in it] by a dying Ranger [King's man]  who has been set upon by orcs [Rucks] and set off through the Mirkwood  [Dreadwood] to take it to Elrond [Agron], dodging the trolls [trolls] and  Uruk-hai [Hloks] and Nazgul [Ghuls] who have been sent by Sauron [Modru],  ruler of Mordor [Gron] and servant of Morgoth [Gyphon], and finally meet  some elves [elves], including Gildor [Gildor], who give them some waybread  [waybread!].  &quot;Well, it certainly puts cram [crue] to  shame.&quot;<br />I'm sorry, but I can only take so much of this.  I mean, of  course Tolkien is the mitochondrial Eve of modern fantasy, and of course  anyone who writes about Elves and Dwarves at all in these latter days is  inevitably borrowing from Tolkien either consciously or unconsciously.  And  of course the whole genre of the tiny party of unlikely heroes setting out  cross-lots pursued by the whole army of evil is straight from Tolkien, and  anyone who attempts it will be compared to Tolkien.  The first hundred  pages of Jordan's &quot;The Eye of the World&quot; have the air of the  Shire.  But the difference is that Jordan quickly, much to the reader's  relief, lets you know that he has many ideas of his own.  Not the case  here!  It is a Bad Thing when the story is so uninteresting and the ripoffs  so common that the reader just ceases to be at all interested in the story  and is reduced to just playing &quot;Tolkien match-up&quot;, sort of likeplaying the &quot;License plate game&quot; on a long and boring car trip.   At page 106 I got out at a service area, and I refused to get back in the  car.<br />Worried that I hadn't given the book a fair shake, I skipped ahead  and sampled about eight or ten pages in the last three quarters of the  book, wondering if there might be something interesting there.  I found no  evidence for this.  Just a lot of wandering with elves speaking in medieval  English (&quot;Nay, Sir Beau, inconsequential art thou not&quot;) and some  battles and slaughters and I guess there is even some love interest, but  nothing that would convince me to get back into the car.  Not without  getting paid.	2000-05-24
US	50319570	R1F690CXW8B8E6	0425147517	206722278	The Key to Midnight	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Twists keep this thriller mostly afloat	The rich and successful private eye Alex Hunter, who doesn't yet know what love is, visits a night club in Kyoto, starts to fall for the Anglo proprietor/singer Joanne Reed, and then realizes she is the daughter of a  U.S. Senator, abducted 12 years ago, whom he was unable to locate back  then.<br />Reed is really someone quite different, as far as she knows.  But  then why does she have creepy nightmares every night about a guy with metal  fingers and a hypodermic needle?  And why is Kyoto all of a sudden the site  of the world burglars, sneaks, and thugs convention, all of whom are  practicing on Alex?<br />We learn two things about the senator very quickly:  (a) while serving in Viet Nam he was held prisoner by the Reds and then  miraculously escaped, and (b) Alex doesn't like him.  This will start off  some trains of thought if you are like me, and the words &quot;Manchurian  Candidate&quot; may even come to mind.  I should point out, though, that  Koontz (as he points out in an afterword) has extensively rewritten this  book for the post-Soviet era, so it's not going to be quite that simple.   If &quot;House of Thunder&quot; is an example of what his old Cold War  pseudonymous novels were like before he rewrote them, it's probably good he  did.<br />On the con side, the writing tends to be a big clunky and  non-atmospheric, and some of the action sequences read like they are verbal  descriptions of what he was hoping the movie would be like, which is not  the same as good writing even if it would be a good movie.  Also, some of  the plot devices are implausible, while the motives of some of the  characters are hard to explain: in particular there are several people who  have every chance to just kill off Alex before he causes any trouble, and I  don't know why they don't.  And there is some &quot;talking villain&quot;  stuff.<br />Back on the pro side, there are enough plot twists to keep you  somewhat fooled until pretty late in the game.  The love story is alot  like 15 other Koontz love stories, but it has its sweet side.  And he  writes about Kyoto as if he knew the place, at least from the viewpoint of  someone like me who doesn't.<br />When all is said and done, despite its  flaws, and despite the fact that I hate Koontz's politics as much as he  hates mine, I have to give it three stars, which is not a bad rating coming  from me.  Actually it's a better 3-star volume than Darkfall.  I won't  reread it, and I'm glad I didn't pay money for it, but I don't feel as if  reading it was an unenjoyable waste.	2000-05-18
US	50319570	R16ZXAPIIDVD6B	0380977028	869501234	Avalon:: The Return of King Arthur	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Too much becoming king, not enough kingship	This book reads a lot like the first book in a series, but I haven't found any evidence that that's really what it is.  If I knew for a fact that there was more to come, I would be more forgiving, because it would excuse  what seems to me to be the book's chief shortcoming: it is all about the  reborn Arthur becoming king, but not very much at all about what he does AS  king, or why this will be good for the British people, and, hence, why it  matters whether he was reborn or not.<br />As the book opens, the British  Prime Minister Waring is an Evil Politician who is well on his way to  destroying the monarchy by legislative and bureaucratic means and reducing  Britain (in the author's view) to a U.S.-style republic.  In the nick of  time, however, the crummy existing king does himself in, whereupon Merlin  reveals to the upstanding young James Arthur Stuart that he is (a) a Duke,  and (b) rightful king (as all of the more immediate royal family have  signed abdication forms under Waring's pressure).<br />All the stuff about  James's family line is handled in a rather clumsy and slipshod way, and you  are eager to be done with it.  (Why couldn't he have started out as minor  nobility instead of all that business with his parents concealing their  marriage?  I suppose it's because the Sword in the Stone theme of the  disguised Wart has to be recapitulated, but honestly, it's not done  terribly well.)<br />Anyway, we move on quickly to the conflict between Arthur  and the evil Waring (unknowingly aided by the sultry Morgan le Fay) over  whether Britain should be a monarchy or not.  As the crucial referendum  battle approaches, Waring obligingly shoots himself in the foot with clumsy  thug tactics which enable James Arthur to display his skill as a street  fighter.  <br />The Waringites never bother to make any reasonable arguments  against the continuation of the monarchy.  Naturally you root for Arthur  because he and his Jenny (yes, yes) are Good People while Waringis Bad.   But James Arthur's speeches about how the 'Summer Country' must be restored  are awfully short on program.  Many issues are skated over, like: what are  the Muslims, Jews, etc., supposed to do while Arthur is declaring the  necessity of a king who will defend 'The True Church'?  IS the Church of  England the 'True Church' (Arthur was pre-Reformation)?  What is Arthur's  kingship actually going to be like?  You have the impression that Britain  will be a wonderful place because Arthur's goodness and justice will just  magically emanate throughout the realm and create a kinder, gentler  Britain, but how is this going to work in practice?  Is he going to be  commander-in-chief of the army?  What about all the other countries  unfortunate enough not to have an Arthur?  Is Arthur going to have to  conquer all of Europe and be crowned by the Pope like in Malory's  books?<br />Ultimately the fact that none of the serious issues of monarchy  vx. democracy get addressed brings down the caliber of the work, which,  however, I will admit to be an engaging read - within limits.	2000-05-17
US	50319570	R8JEBJS0Z93E5	0553572733	474750115	Before the Storm (Star Wars: The Black Fleet Crisis)	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Trilogy takes off, disintegrates in flight (vol. 1)	There really ought to be a place where you can rate these trilogies as a unit.  Trying to write reviews as if they were independent volumes doesn't make a lot of sense.<br />The 'Black Fleet' trilogy takes a long time to take  off in volume 1, seems to develop some promise and momentum in volume 2,  and it isn't until you finish volume 3 that you really realize how much of  a waste of time it was to read it.   The first volume takes some time  getting three plots moving.  The main plot is the war between the New  Republic and the evil and aggressive Yevetha, who are planning to take over  their star cluster (and then the universe) with the help of some Imperial  ships they captured a few years back.  This gets going really slowly, as  Leia spends most of the book getting utterly duped by the evil Yevethan  viceroy who engages her in long and pointless &quot;negotiations&quot; in  which he apparently does nothing but talk about how badly his people were  mistreated by the Empire.  The war has hardly even started at the end of  volume 1.  Leia spends much of the trilogy fighting off evil politicians  who want to depose her from the presidency, but I have to say that she  doesn't have any great claim to the job from the skills she exhibits.    <br />Meanwhile, Luke starts off deciding to be a hermit like Obi-wan and Yoda  before him, but is quickly derailed by a mysterious and irritating woman  named Akatha who promises that he can find out some information about his  mother if he hares off across the galaxy to who knows where with her and  listens to pious lectures about how bad it is that Jedi kill people.  Luke  is somewhat of a disappointment here, since he seems to be a strange  mixture of 3 parts mature Jedi sage and 7 parts Luke the Kid from Episode  IV.  Obi-wan wouldn't have been as naive as Luke here on his worst  day.<br />And in plot number 3, Lando, Lobot, C3PO and R2D2 go off to help  investigate a mysterious Flying-Dutchman type ship.  Also, Chewie goesoff  to his homeworld to help his son get through a coming-of-age ritual, but he  isn't seen again until volume 2 when it will be necessary for him to return  to help out Han.  This is not giving away a secret, since there is a lot of  discussion of Chewie's life-debt to Han, so you just know he is going to  have a chance to pay it off.<br />Like I say, it's slow going, but the writing  is competent and you may be willing to trust the author in the hope that he  will bring these plots together in some interesting way down the road.   Well, it is my sad duty to tell you that this hope is in vain.  One of the  subplots ends up having ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to do with everything else.  The  war will not get resolved in an interesting way, and the bottom line is  that you will end up feeling disappointed.  Or at least I did.<br />The  writing might merit 3 stars for volume 1, 4 stars for volume 2, and 2 stars  for volume 3, but if it winds up on a 2-star note it's a 2-star trilogy in  my book.	2000-05-16
US	50319570	R3PQTK17H7GSSJ	0553572776	938896950	Shield of Lies (Star Wars: The Black Fleet Crisis Deries)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Trilogy takes off, disintegrates in flight (vol. 2)	As I wrote in my review of volume 1, I really wish there were a place to rate trilogies as a whole.  While we're wishing, let's wish that authors would just save up and write a single big fat book!  Or put all three  volumes out at once!<br />Some of the reviews here were written in 1999 before  volume 3 was available, and they complain that the book doesn't go  anywhere.  Well, this is slightly off base, because it's not an independent  work, it's a Middle!  As a middle it is not OBVIOUSLY bad.  The writing  isn't bad, some of the action is potentially interesting, and, although the  plots don't seem to be going anywhere, and the loose ends are being tied  up, you might be willing to suspend your judgment and wait to see how they  are volume 3 is going to bring everything together.<br />However, now that we  have read the third book, we find that most of this never DOES get tied  together.  The subplot involving the automated ship that has taken off with  Lando and company into Imperial space - well, that will never get  integrated with any of the rest of the action AT ALL.  The subplot  involving Luke's joyride with Akatha - none of the activity in volume 2  will contribute in any way to the resolutions of things in volume 3.  It is  all just killing time, basically.  As for the war, all the espionage and  information-collecting they are doing, they might as well not do, since the  war is going to get resolved without it.  <br />This had the potential to be a  4-star middle, but unfortunately it's nestled in a 2-star trilogy.	2000-05-16
US	50319570	R3M2512T1YC3XG	0425104346	485108045	Darkfall	Books	3	0	1	N	N	An OK read	Koontz fans will like this book.  It starts off with some very strong, spooky, atmospheric writing, as the protagonist-detective's daughter listens to noises at night - then begins to see things...<br />Now, the story  line is not terribly intricate or nuanced; this is hamburgers, not fine  continental cuisine, but hamburgers have their place.  People who are hip  to Koontz's writing will not have any trouble seeing where the book is  going after the first twenty pages.  Is the (widowed) detective going to  break through his beautiful partner's reserve?  (Bet on it.)  When she  argues that he shouldn't bother exploring the voodoo angle, because they're  all just frauds and charlatans, is her reasoning sound?  (Yeah, right :-)   ) <br />Koontz's depiction of voodoo (or vodun, more correctly) is flawed; the  Rada=good loa, Petro=evil loa dichotomy is wrong, and the closer you come  to the Big Climax, the farther you are from anything that any bocor (evil  adept) does or thinks he can do.<br />But on balance, it's ok.  For me,  &quot;ok&quot; means three stars.  If you are 'sensitized' to Koontz, you  might reasonably go to 4.	2000-05-15
US	50319570	R391UEU32S6K93	0446605247	112890183	The Seer King	Books	3	41	41	N	N	Energetic with flaws: a mixxxed bag	This is the opening volume of a war-with-swords-and-magic trilogy, taking place in a somewhat stripped-down world with Roman-empire military technology and also magic and demons.<br />Let me take care of the sex scenes  issue up front. An earlier reviewer was right on the mark when he compared  them to &quot;Letters to Penthouse&quot;, except, to be precise, they're  more like &quot;Letters to Penthouse Variations&quot; in their systematic  kinkiness.  And they're not there to develop the character or the plot,  either.  You go along for 50 pages of plot, and then you get a ten page  kinky sex scene, sort of like beer commercials in the middle of a football  game.  I've never seen anything quite like it.  It's weird.  Well, you can  take that as a plus or a minus, it's up to you.<br />Basically this trilogy is  all about war, civil and otherwise.  The protagonist, Damastes a Cimabue,  is discovered in prison at the beginning of Volume I, expecting to die,  penning his reflections on the rise and fall of his career as the friend,  tool, and dupe of Tenedos, mage-emperor of Numantia.  (Don't get too  discouraged, though, that isn't really how the trilogy ends.)  <br />Numantia  is an empire which has no emperor, is ruled by a committee, and is  unraveling into its component kingdoms.  Or so it is when Damastes  encounters the Seer (really mage) Tenedos, who has some big ideas but no  batallions.  Since the book is called &quot;The Seer King&quot;, I don't  think I'm giving anyway any deep secrets by telling you that through his  tactical and strategic abilities Damastes is able to help Tenedos realize  some or all of these ideas.<br />Bunch maintains a lot of energy and is mostly  convincing when he is writing about military campaigns, relationships among  officers and men, victories, defeats, miserable retreats through lousy  terrain, the effects of war on the civilian populace, and so on.  <br />On the  minus side, the social-science side of things is pretty weak.In essence  this is a world with two empires in it (and some border terrain).  There  are supposedly some other kingdoms somewhere, but you never find out  anything about them.  A lot of subject areas just haven't been explored  well, such as oceanic trade, supplying the capital city with food, the  economic system, the religious infrastructure (you learn about some of the  gods, but are there scriptures? disputes? etc.), history, political  philosophy, and intellectual pursuits in general.  The level of  civilization is somewhere between imperial Rome and 17th-century London,  but nobody ever reads or writes a book (or scroll).  <br />A huge and powerful  secret society of assassins appears, being a sect of demon-worshipers in  volume 1, a worker-artisan-peasant alliance in volume 2, and millenarians  of some kind in volume 3.  And they manage to do this without any  aboveground propaganda, organization, etc.  Take it from me, it's not that  easy to organize even an ordinary secret society, let alone one in which  all the thousands of members are fanatical assassins!   Of course this is a  reflection of Bunch's Viet Nam experience, but it suggests that he never  really understood Viet Nam.  People don't become VC-style militants just  out of mob instinct, without the effects of the social, political, and  cultural context.   <br />These things may seem nitpicky, but in my book you  have to at least think about these things some to get more than 3  stars.<br />Then there is the magic.  Now, some of it is pretty cool.  I kind  of like the incantations, with their vague and suggestive wording.  And  there is some interesting use of substances, like expanding skillets, one  boat turned into many boats, that sort of thing.<br />But when you sit down  and try to make sense of it, you start to realize that Bunch has sort of  skated over some of the problems.  For example, how come nobody else has  figured out how to do the stuff that Tenedos does?  Is it just that he hasmore &quot;mana&quot; than anyone ever had in the history of the world  before?  Or fewer scruples?  How come he doesn't use one good spell over  and over again, instead of having to create something original for each  battle?  Although it is crystal clear by the end of Volume 1 that  &quot;Great Spells&quot; and the use of demons are as powerful as tactical  nukes, how come this has no effect on the organization of armies, states,  etc.?  How come everyone just organizes for battle the same way as  &quot;always&quot;, sort of hoping the enemy's next Great Spell won't kill  too many thousand?   Doesn't technological development induce social  change?<br />Well, that's the sort of thing Bunch would have to address better  than he does before he would get top marks from me.  Furthermore, since  you're going to want to read all 3 books, I think it makes sense to rate  the trilogy as a unit.  This means that the whole trilogy suffers from the  fact that Damastes is so willfully ignorant throughout Volume 2, which I  consider to be another defect.  However, three stars is not a bad rating in  my book.	2000-05-15
US	50319570	RCUWMPSZMB1S2	0446606472	112890183	The Demon King	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Mixxed bag continues; protagonist takes stupid pills	This is the second volume of the trilogy which started with The Seer King.  I have written a review of that volume, which I called a 'mixed bag'.  Many of my problems with the first volume continue into this.<br />The  &quot;Letters to Penthouse Variations&quot; sex scenes are as peculiarly  divorced from matters of action and character as they were in volume  1.<br />The problems with the social-science side of Bunch's two-empire world  are as bad here as in volume 1.  See, this is something I know something  about.  How do you organize a mass movement of assassins, for example,  which is equally active in the feudal countryside and among the urban  artisans and proletariat?  Building the peasant-worker alliance is not so  easy as all that, as the Bolsheviks found, yet for the Tovieti all they  have to do is wave their hands and everyone runs out and assassinates  people.  It's just implausible.<br />Now I thought the warfare stuff was  pretty convincing.  And yet I really don't know much about the use of the  bow, for example, so when I read the notes by the &quot;Danish military  history fan&quot; below which suggest that Bunch has messed up that part  TOO, I have the jarring suspicion that I only like this part because of my  own ignorance :-)<br />In this volume, our hero, general Damastes, becomes a  victim of the Emperor Tenedos' obsession with ruling the world, beginning  with the Empire of Maisir (he has to start there because it's the only  other country that the Numantians know about :-)).  Apart from Bunch's  general problems, this volume suffers from the fact that our hero, general  Damastes, is willfully stupid throughout the book.  For one thing, Tenedos  makes it crystal clear that he is intent on world conquest.  Then he tells  Damastes that he won't be ready to invade Maisir for five years, and he  tells Damastes to go down and negotiate a peace treaty.  But somehow  Damastes then believes that he can bring about a treaty which will ensure  peace between the two powers for a lifetime!  Then when Tenedos' schemes  come to light he feels betrayed and put upon, but why?<br />But even worse,  Damastes takes the longest possible time to discover the &quot;Secret&quot;  of Tenedos's Great Spells, which anyone of ordinary intelligence has long  since figured out, going back to Volume 1!  Look: In one of the battles in  Volume I, Tenedos orders some of his forces to undertake a maneuver that  gets a lot of them killed for no obvious reason.  Then, and only then, he  raises a demon that wins the battle for him.  And there is a lot of  discussion of the &quot;price&quot; you have to pay a demon. OK, you get  the picture, right?  Don't have to hit you over the head with it, right?  And you're not even from a world that's familiar with demons!  But Damastes  is, and he has years to think about it as he watches the above pattern  repeat over and over and over, and listens to Tenedos' revealing  mutterings, and STILL not until the end of volume II does he figure out the  obvious.  It's pretty tiresome.<br />I would give this volume two stars,  except for the fact that I feel that the trilogy should be rated as a unit,  which is why I give it 3.e between the two powers for a lifetime!   Then when Tenedos' schemes  come to light he feels betrayed and put upon, but why?<br />But even worse,  Damastes takes the longest possible time to discover the &quot;Secret&quot;  of Tenedos's Great Spells, which anyone of ordinary intelligence has long  since figured out, going back to Volume 1!  Look: In one of the battles in  Volume I, Tenedos orders some of his forces to undertake a maneuver that  gets a lot of them killed for no obvious reason.  Then, and only then, he  raises a demon that wins the battle for him.  And there is a lot of  discussion of the &quot;price&quot; you have to pay a demon. OK, you get  the picture, right?  Don't have to hit you over the head with it, right?   And you're not even from a world that's familiar with demons!  But Damastes  is, and he has years to think about it as he watches the above pattern  repeat over and over and over, and listens to Tenedos' revealing  mutterings, and STILL not until the end of volume II does he figure out the  obvious.  It's pretty tiresome.<br />I would give this volume two stars,  except for the fact that I feel that the trilogy should be rated as a unit,  which is why I give it 3.	2000-05-15
US	50319570	R2IZCASIFNG894	0425132951	117838793	The House of Thunder	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Suddenly, the book was run over by a truck	The power train of a truck consists of the engine, transmission, driveshaft, universals, axles and wheels.  If the wheels can't be made to turn, the truck is junk.<br />A story has a beginning, a middle, and an  ending. If the ending can't be made to work, the book is junk.  And such is  the case here.  <br />Although Koontz and I are political opponents, that  doesn't stop me from really liking a lot of his work.  &quot;Watchers&quot;  is on my read-again-and-again shelf.  I have come to expect at least a good  read from a Koontz novel, and for the first 320 pages out of 360 my  expectations were being met.  <br />The protagonist, Susan Thornton, wakes up,  apparently (it's never safe to assume, though) in an Oregon hospital after  an auto accident.  She has apparently been in a coma for three weeks and is  suffering from selective amnesia - she can't remember anything about her  workplace.<br />She is also plagued by dreams of a ghastly murder she  witnessed in her past, and then she starts to see the murderers - some of  whom have died since! - walking around the hospital as orderlies.  They  threaten her diabolically, yet as far as everyone else in the hospital is  concerned it's all in her head.  Is it?  Or is everyone in on the  conspiracy?  Or is there a reasonable supernatural explanation?<br />The  atmosphere of confusion and paranoia is handled well, the reader is  pleasingly baffled, all the simple answers seem to be ruled out, and as you  approach the end you say, &quot;Geez, I'm stumped - I wonder how he'll  explain all this!&quot;  <br />And then - AND THEN - you hit pages 325-330 and  all of a sudden the bottom drops out.  The Explanation is given and you  just gape and you cannot BELIEVE that it is as miserable and unconvincing  as it is. I don't believe in giving away endings, but you know what it's  sort of like?  It's sort of like in the original Star Trek when Kirk's away  team gets into an insoluble dilemma on an incomprehensible planet and allof a sudden an alien appears and says, &quot;We were just experimenting to  see what your species would do in this situation.&quot;  I don't mean that  the Explanation here is indeed alien experimentation, but that it's  something equally hokey, overused, and implausible.<br />Furthermore the  Explanation is revealed by having one of the characters just come out and  explain the whole thing.  Furthermore there are a million holes in the  Explanation if you think about it for a minute and say, &quot;could this  really work?  In that case why did those people do that&quot; etc.   Furthermore it is followed up by some closing action involving entities of  great power and prescience making idiotic mistakes like Batman villains  (1960's live-action series) and shooting themselves fatally in the  feet.<br />The best explanation I can think of for this awful volume - which  was first published under a pseudonym in 1982 - is that Koontz wrote the  first 320 pages and then realized he had written himself into a corner and  just couldn't think of an ending that made everything work.  So he tacked  on this miserable one and tried to cut his losses by peddling it under an  alias.  But years later, Koontz became UltraSuperMarketable, and Berkley   putout a uniform edition of all Koontz's stuff, and Koontz was cajoled into  resurrecting this dead book and throwing it into the lineup in the believe  that superKoontzfans will pay $8 for a dead mackerel with his name on it.   <br />But the fact that 30-odd people have given this book 4- and 5-star  reviews here is more eerie and eldritch and Unexplained than anything in  any book by Koontz!	2000-05-14
US	50319570	R1IDK02MCJJLWL	031286860X	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	2	33	42	N	N	Ender's Game's Shadow: About 30% (net) of an excellent book	I don't really blame Card for writing this book.  Not every writer has a lot of control over what he/she writes - some of them just get possessed by the Muse and, seemingly unable to control themselves, produce whatever  experiment or tour de force the Muse happens to have in mind.  Card seems  particularly susceptible.<br />So here is Card's dilemma: having produced the  gemlike Ender's Game long ago, and having composed the superb sequel  Speaker for the Dead, and two less superb sequelae, he now looks back upon  Ender Wiggin's original supporting cast and finds himself overcome with  regret for their untold stories.  &quot;What a pity,&quot; he may have  said, &quot;that I did not shape the character of Bean in my mind those  many years ago, as clearly as I beheld the Wiggin family!  Well, better  late than never!&quot;  So he creates this book, a book 'parallel' to  Ender's Game, the same slice of time and space (mostly) seen through the  eyes of Bean.<br />Well, here's the unavoidable and really problematic thing:   after you get through the opening chapters about Bean's toddler-genius life  in an apocalyptic Rotterdam reduced to the conditions of life of the Ik in  Colin Turnbull's &quot;The Mountain People&quot;, you find yourself in the  story of Ender's Game.  Yes, it's another perspective.  Yes, it's a  complementary set of insights.  But it's the same setting and the same War  and many of the same battles.  The bottom line is that the sum of Ender's  Game and Ender's Shadow is less than two whole books, and really comes to  something like 1.3 Ender's Game Units.  And since you HAVE to read Ender's  Game, because it really IS a gem, then you will find yourself only about  30% more fulfilled having read this one IN ADDITION.<br />Now, it may be that  there are some people reading this review who have not yet read Ender's  Game.  I must direct those people to go out and read EG, because it is by  far the superior work, and then decide whether the additional&quot;perspective&quot; is worth the additional time.  Of course when you  pick it up you may conclude that it is just another entry in the  &quot;harsh space military school&quot; genre, which well by now ought to  have been drained by a host of authors, going back before Heinlein and  leading up to Busby and Feintuch in the present.  But this would be like  dismissing Lord of the Rings as &quot;just another fantasy novel with  elves&quot;.  At the heart of any such genre there are a few Epitomes, seed  crystals which give the genre its life and form.<br />Ender's Shadow suffers  in comparison with Ender's Game, because Bean is a superman.  Superchild.   Much more so than the talented Ender.  And that makes him less interesting,  not more, in my view.  The superchild genre has also been heavily mined  over the decades, and this volume (even considered completely independently  from Ender's Game) suffers in comparison with Cherryh's Cyteen, Dickson's  Final Encyclopedia, King's Firestarter, Van Vogt's Slan, and the whole  Justice League of other superchildren in contemporary SF. <br />For a good  superman/woman/child novel to work, it helps if there is some tension  between the superbeing's assets and weaknesses.  The first few chapters  balance this nicely: how does a four-year-old, super-smart but without any  access to machines, manage to avoid starvation and murder?  (Actually, a  book about Bean's hypothetical twin brother Schmean, who never goes to  School but stays in Rotterdam fighting for survival, would have been  better.) But the tension deflates rapidly when Bean reaches the School,  where he will not be killed, where he has enough to eat, and where he has  utterly hacked the Network inside the first day.  After that he is ten  steps ahead of everyone the whole time, the officers gape and gasp  (&quot;How could he have found THAT out! &quot;) and there's no  suspense.  Furthermore, having been raised in the barbarism of the streets,  he progresses moreor less automatically toward Goodness, driven by his  good genes, I suppose.  Ender's own story was much more interesting, both  because he was not a Superbeing and because the progress of the story was  the other way, as he was being twisted away from normality toward being a  Weapon. <br />Now, here is what Card should have done.  If he was really  overpowered by the desire to tell Bean's story, and/or other tales of the  Dragon Army, he should have considered the drastic step of rewriting and  expanding Ender's Game (you can call this the &quot;Director's Cut&quot;  solution if you want).  That might have resulted in a larger and better  book.  As it stands, Ender's Shadow is not much more than a shadow of  Ender's Game.	2000-05-09
US	50319570	R2CEWMS5S18K5F	0345416880	281816523	Enchantment	Books	5	50	57	N	N	A new classic.  Card's best ever.	I'm a tough critic, and I don't throw around sentences like &quot;this is the best work of fantasy I've read in a year&quot; without giving the matter some thought.  But this is a really superb story.  I cannot see where it could have been done better, and I don't say that often.<br />It's  superb because it is told vigorously and plausibly.  Assume for a few hours  that gods and magic have been real, and that there can be magic bridges  across time, and the actions of the characters make perfect sense.  They  are all intelligent problem-solvers - not only Ivan and his parents and  Princess Katarina, but the witch-queen Baba Yaga and her captive Bear-god.   At no point does Card feel the need to make a leading character into a  dunce or a lunatic to shove the plot along.<br />Card also avoids many  pitfalls which you might be afraid that he fell into, given the subject  matter and the fact that he really succumbed to some of them in the  &quot;Alvin Maker&quot; series.  For example, he does not bog the story  down in discussing contemporary post-Soviet politics, or in the fine points  of culture and technology in tenth-century Ukraine, nor in determining who  the real heroes and villains were in Eastern Europe then, nor does he  clutter the volume with every Russian folk tale element ever recorded.   Nor, although this book does elaborate on the &quot;Sleeping Beauty&quot;  story, is it merely a self-conscious &quot;retelling&quot; of the kind that  we fantasy readers have come to dread, often in connection with Arthurian  legend.  The present and the past are nicely balanced and interwoven, and  the center of attention throughout is on the story rather than on its  setting and provenance.<br />Furthermore, he manages to throw in a few  surprising plot twists, which is difficult to do in a story like this,  considering that you mostly expect that the hero and heroine are not going  to get killed by Baba Yaga and it's mainly a question of how they will win.   Nothinghere is trite.  Furthermore Card avoids the temptation to explain  &quot;everything&quot; at the end or to develop a textbook on the laws of  magic.  He recognizes that some things have to be explained, but other  things just work because that's how they work in fairy tales, and he draws  the line between the two sets of things quite well.<br />You know how you know  that a book has really worked?  After you are done with the book - you find  that you aren't really done with it.  You leaf back through it and re-read  some of the nicely done parts and recapture how you felt at the first  read-through.  Then you put it on your shelf along with your other favorite  books, where you can pick it up in a few months or a year and read it  again.  Not all that much stuff by Card has made it onto that shelf of  mine, but this one has.	2000-04-25
US	50319570	R3V6HJIZ419VMS	0812551494	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not horrible, but...	I really liked Wizard's First Rule.  Stone of Tears was nearly as good.  Blood of the Fold was a disappointment, and after Temple of the Winds I had given up on Goodkind entirely.<br />The good news is that Soul of the Fire is a bit of an improvement over &quot;Temple&quot;, in which Richard spent the  whole book grousing around like a jealous idiot because he and Kahlan had  been forced to marry other people by the evil Goodkind for no reason other  than to create a &quot;situation&quot;.  At least Richard is generally  likeable here.<br />TG is still able to come up with some interesting and  non-cliche'd magic elements, and still describes Evil deeds (capital E) as  unblinkingly as anyone in the business.  And he even has a little fun with  his own unorthodox but generally effective names for magical entities.  (Nothing could REALLY be called a &quot;Lurk&quot;... could it?)   <br />Unfortunately there are flaws.  It is a big flaw when the author's  barely disguised political agenda for the US in the year 2000 peeks through  from under the paint in a swords-and-magic series.  Thus, the willfully  ignorant dupes of the evil Order chant &quot;Give peace a chance&quot; in  undiluted 1970 fashion.  We also are given an extended allegory and  cautionary tale of what will happen if PC non-Eurocentric education runs  amok, and why we should just let our &quot;fair laws&quot; operate in a  color-blind way.  Goodkind is also against right-to-work laws (me too) and  the decline of the peacetime military (count me out here), but even if you  share TG's whole belief system, isn't the fantasy genre supposed to be an  escape rather than a political thriller?<br />There are other problems with  the story - just irritating displays of carelessness.  There are problems  with space and time.  Why bother to put a map in the book if none of the  locations in the story are labelled on the map?   (Except the Mud People.)   However, without a useful map, it is harder to ask or answer certain  questions about whether a given journey is 10 miles or 300 miles, and  whether it can really be made in the time it takes in the story.  But even  without the map, I refuse to believe that an untrained servant-turned-bully  boy on horseback, fleeing from a trained Mord-Sith, and having a head start  of a couple minutes, can maintain this lead over a journey of (many) miles,  maybe a couple hundred, probably taking several days, and arrive at his  destination with the same couple-minute lead that he started with.  And  this is just one example.  Here's another one:  if an invading army  discovers a cheap,  effective, and obvious means of subverting a defensive  weapons system, it is implausible that the system is still effective  hundreds of years later because everyone in the world has forgotten the  secret.  There are more. Things like this are as much the fault of his  editor as of TG himself, BTW.<br />I would prefer to give this 2.5 stars, but  I have to give it 2 because I can't in good conscience go as high as 3.	2000-04-25
US	50319570	R11KCSJVZUE57U	0312865309	99516703	Skins of Dead Men	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Sub-average action with annoying ESP device	Mostly this is an average action/conspiracy/chase book like a thousand others. The villains could be drug cartelistas, renegade CIA men, it doesn't matter.  Naturally they love torture and know everything you buy on  your Visa card instantly.  The gutsy heroine and her former-agent friend  naturally out-fight, out-tech, and out-netsurf the professionals and have  an obligatory bonding sex scene.  Nothing wrong with it if it doesn't  scream FORMULA!  every paragraph.  The heroine is supposedly Chicana but  she could have been Polish or Irish or Zulu, since her role is to be five  feet of bitter determination, no more, no less, and her culture/background  has no effect on her actions or the story.<br />Oh, there is also a  fantasy/paranormal plot device which is very annoying, since (a) it's  sillier than most; (b) it plays a tiny role in the plot, and could have  been  easily dispensed with; (c) the author, however, is quite taken with  it and thinks it's the centerpiece of the book.  He's mistaken.  Look:  supposed you got a book called &quot;Jurassic Park&quot;, and found that on  page 300 out of 400 pages of conspiracy/chase, they run through Jurassic  Park and a dinosaur kills a bad guy.  Then, on the last page, a protagonist  says, &quot;We never could have done it without TYRANNOSAURUS REX.&quot;  It's like that.  Trust me.<br />I gave it two stars since if you had nothing  else to read on the train, you might read this instead of staring out the  window.  I've read some, or parts of some, similar thrillers of which I  could not say that.	2000-01-06
