US	50317959	R1PXLIL7IB326I	0140194703	663684579	The Farther Reaches of Human Nature	Books	4	118	124	N	Y	A worthy addition to any psychological library	Overall this is a very good book, but with some significant flaws.  The first 100 pages are unbelievably good; as I began reading this book I really felt like I had hit the jackpot, and I quickly concluded I would attempt to read all of Maslow's works.  As I got further into the book I was singing quite a different tune.  I believe anyone with any interest in psychology whatsoever should buy this book and read the first 100 pages.  This section alone is easily worth the price of the book - don't let me scare you away from exploring the ideas of this great man.  However, the dropoff in quality after this first section is rather precipitous, and while pages 100-200 were OK, the final 100 pages are an absolute chore to get through and I had to force myself along to finish the book.<br />Keep in mind that Abraham Maslow died before he was able to make a final edit of this book, and it shows.  The second half of the book is almost a verbatim repetition of the earlier sections, and Maslow tends to harp on the same concepts endlessly.  Some of it comes across as a very generic self help book designed to be consumed by the masses.  In other sections, he seems to start over right from square one, as if some of the essays were meant to stand alone and were not meant to follow other essays that were extremely similar.  I would say nearly half of this book should have been relegated to an expanded appendix - but I guess it would be strange to have a book where full half of it consisted of an appendix.  I'm sure that Maslow would have fixed these problems had he lived long enough, but we will just have to accept this book for what it is and try as best we can to extrapolate something useful from it.<br />To conclude, I must still vehemently stress the importance of  at least the first half of this book.  If you grow bored with it, just stop reading.  The editors of this book obviously elected to take a throw-it-all-against-the-wall-and-see-what-sticks approach, and I suppose there is no harm in that.  Just remember that the original author was not around to oversee the final editing, and the result is a large dose of disjecta and detritus towards the end of the book.  Nevertheless, do not let this minor disclaimer prevent you from exploring the wonderful ideas of this brilliant man.re is no harm in that.  Just remember that the original author was not around to oversee the final editing, and the result is a large dose of disjecta and detritus towards the end of the book.  Nevertheless, do not let this minor disclaimer prevent you from exploring the wonderful ideas of this brilliant man.	2004-01-14
US	50317959	R1Y8EB8S1N04YH	0691018162	87903489	Mysterium Coniunctionis (Collected Works of C.G. Jung Vol.14)	Books	3	33	66	N	N	For fans of the genre only	I did not find this book to be as useful as most of the other volumes of Carl Jung's collected works.  Keep in mind that I love and respect Carl Jung as much as anyone; I have devoted nearly a year of my life solidly to reading Jung's collected works, and they have been the source of much joy, fulfillment, and enlightenment for me.  However, _Mysterium Conjunctionis_ has contributed very little to these positive changes I have experienced, for the following reasons:<br />1.  The footnotes.  Never in my life have I seen a book so festooned with footnotes as this one.  They take up over half the book - on any given page, there is about one inch of text along the top of the page, and the rest is covered by footnotes.  This problem is exacerbated by the fact that these footnotes contain little of any interest to me.<br />2.  This book comes across as nothing more than a massive attempt on the part of Jung to justify and support the ideas he has had over the years.  Often the book reads like some kind of list of ancient alchemists and mythmakers who have foreshadowed and echoed Jung's sentiments.  Many paragraphs are devoted to listing names which will be unfamilier to almost everyone, capped off by footnotes explaining who these people were.  Rather than concoct new ideas, Jung seems to have opted to dig up ancient figures who can \\"back up\\" some of his major ideas.  It seems like Jung is trying to fend off critics who have accused him of putting forth unsubstantiated ideas rather than cater to his loyal fans who already trust him.<br />3.  The overall feel of the book is simply a field guide to witches and warlocks.  Granted, Jung discusses these phantoms and myths from the standpoint of depth psychology and general \\"psychic phenomena\\", and does not seem to be advocating a literal-historical belief in all these myths.  However, we are bombarded with myth after esoteric myth throughout the book, while Jung leaves it to us to interpret the symbolic value and modern psychological parallels of these myths.  Very rarely does Jung give us a useful interpretation of what these myths should mean to us.<br />4. This book is very self-indulgent on Jung's part.  It consists almost entirely of Jung's most esoteric \\"pet\\" concepts, like archetypes, alchemy, ancient myths, and sorcery.  It is precisely these strange \\"pet\\" concepts which have given fodder to many of Jung's critics, who accuse him of being obsessed with ancient rituals which have little relevance to the modern day world.<br />Overall, I recommend this book only to those readers of Jung who want to go all the way and read every one of the collected works; this book should be near the bottom of the list.  Do not read this book unless you have already read volumes 6,7,8,9,10,11, and 12 of the CW.logical parallels of these myths.  Very rarely does Jung give us a useful interpretation of what these myths should mean to us.<br />4. This book is very self-indulgent on Jung's part.  It consists almost entirely of Jung's most esoteric \\"pet\\" concepts, like archetypes, alchemy, ancient myths, and sorcery.  It is precisely these strange \\"pet\\" concepts which have given fodder to many of Jung's critics, who accuse him of being obsessed with ancient rituals which have little relevance to the modern day world.<br />Overall, I recommend this book only to those readers of Jung who want to go all the way and read every one of the collected works; this book should be near the bottom of the list.  Do not read this book unless you have already read volumes 6,7,8,9,10,11, and 12 of the CW.	2004-01-14
US	50317959	RPR0YMWU5OMJE	0691097623	484836007	Civilization in Transition (The Collected Works of C. G. Jung, Volume 10)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	One of the best of Jung's collected works.	Even if this book is only available in hardcover, I assure you that it is worth every penny.  _Civilization in Transition_ is a collection of some of Jung's most important essays, including some all-time classic works of philosophical and political psychology.  I will briefly describe the more important essays:<br />AFTER THE CATASTROPHE: One of Jung's all-time greatest essays.  Jung does an excellent job explaining the psychological and theological implications of the holocaust.<br />THE FIGHT WITH THE SHADOW: Continues in the same direction as _After the Catastrophe_;  this is another truly profound and fascinationg essay, dealing with the evil forces lurking deep within man.<br />WOTAN:  Part three of Jung's holy triptich on the evil of man.  Examines the violent history of the German people and the mythological precursers which foreshadowed Germany's tragic fate.<br />CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION also contains the famous essay, THE UNDISCOVERED SELF.  This essay has been described as a study on society and politics, but it struck me as much more universal and well rounded, dealing with intense, far-reaching philosophical and theological issues.  THE UNDISCOVERED SELF is a perfect example of Jung's bold adventures into the realms of philosophy, politics, and religion, rightly recognizing that these issues are inextricably intertwined with human psychology. This essay is available by itself in paperback form, but it is probably wiser to buy the full length CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION because the afformentioned essays on evil are alone worth the price of the volume.<br />Although CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION contains many other useful essays (such as &quot;Women in Europe&quot;, which is still very relevant and insightful), the last one I will mention here is FLYING SAUCERS: A MODERN MYTH OF THINGS SEEN IN THE SKY.  I was very sceptical of this essay at first, because I thought it would contain Jung's characteristic rantings and ravings regarding his pet &quot;archetypes&quot;, but really this essay is quite good.  Jung describes several of his patients' dreams involving flying saucers, and I found these dream sequences to be absolutely fascinating and even potentially revelatory.  FLYING SAUCERS is much better than most of Jung's works regarding archetypal dreams and visions.<br />Overall, CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION is one of the most useful of the collected works.  And unlike some of the collected works, you can read this one cover to cover without skipping anything.  Every last page of CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION is Jung at his very best.but really this essay is quite good.  Jung describes several of his patients' dreams involving flying saucers, and I found these dream sequences to be absolutely fascinating and even potentially revelatory.  FLYING SAUCERS is much better than most of Jung's works regarding archetypal dreams and visions.<BR>Overall, CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION is one of the most useful of the collected works.  And unlike some of the collected works, you can read this one cover to cover without skipping anything.  Every last page of CIVILIZATION IN TRANSITION is Jung at his very best.	2003-12-08
US	50317959	R3QHIKKUCH7KMR	0691097747	284076906	The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche (Collected Works of C.G. Jung, Volume 8)	Books	5	53	54	N	N	A megadose of profound psychology	_The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche_ is one of the better volumes out of the Princeton/Bollingen series of Jung's collected works, and is absolutely essential for any serious Jungian.  I will go over the essays in sequence:<br />First comes an essay entitled \\"On Psychic Energy\\".  This is the most difficult essay in this volume.  Generally, Jung discusses his concept of the \\"canalization of libildo\\".  This is interesting in that Jung tries to redefine \\"libido\\" by moving away from its traditional, purely sexual connotation.  For Jung, libido is simply a generic form of psychic energy which can be redirected or \\"canalized\\" into both sexual AND non-sexual activities, such as religious rituals, dances, chants, and incantations.  It is only when our intrinsic need for ritual is supressed that we find our libido forced to direct its energies into sexual perversion.  Although the concept is interesting, the writing style of this essay is rather vague and opaque, and if you find yourself bogged down, I strongly suggest you skip this first essay.  Don't worry - it's all downhill after this essay.  The rest of the book is much more lucid and readable.<br />Next comes an essay called \\"The Transcendent Function\\", which basically deals with the healing breakthrough which is the goal of the patient in psychotherapy.  Next is an essay dealing with the \\"Complex Theory\\".  This essay deals with word-association tests in which the experimenter observes the subjects reations and hesitations when given a word that evokes embarrassing or painful memories.  Both of these essays are very useful and informative.<br />Next we have about three more short but very profound and informative essays.  Then comes the centerpiece of the book, a potent and spectaculuar classic of 20th century psychology entitled \\"On the Nature of the Psyche\\".  This, along with \\"Answer to Job\\" is one of Jung's very best essays.  It deals with an astounding range of topics, including the limitations and paradoxes associated with epistemology, and the dualistic and paradoxical interrelationship between subjective, inner psyche and the objective/outer world.  This essay has much to say about the limitations of our subjectivity, and the degree to which we depend on other people and the outside world to attain consciousness.  Jung does an excellent job in demarcating the thin line which divides the outer world and the sum of our subjective perceptions.  Overall, this essay is a mind warping trip into a sea of paradoxical mysteries of the psyche.<br />After a short essay dealing with spirits, we come to a series of three great essays: \\"Spirit and Life\\", \\"Basic Postulates of Analytical Psychology\\", and \\"Analytical Psychology and Weltanschauung\\".  These fantastic essays deal expertly with the delicate issue of fate and determinism vs. freewill, and the idea of achieving an objective attitude or \\"Weltanscauung\\".  Jung warns against attempting to unite everyone under one objetive attitude or \\"ism\\".  This can only lead to repression, nationalistic, racist, and PATRIOTIC BIAS, and ultimately, war.  According to Jung, when one nation unites under an \\"ism\\" or Weltanschauung which is erronously believed to be objective and appropriate for everyone, we will end up with a repression of indivdual, diverse opinions at best, and at worst, will have a worldwide tragedy resulting from our quest to force this attitude on other people. (and yes, according to Jung's book, DEMOCRACY also counts as one of those \\"ism's\\" that we should not try to force on to other people).  Of course this tragedy will be carried out under the banner of patriotism.<br />Next we have three more short essays which are very good, especially \\"The Soul and Death\\".  After that, we have the famous essay, \\"Syncronicity\\", which is available by itself in paperback if you only want that.  This is a fascinating essay dealing with paranormal psychic phenomena such as psychokinesis, ESP, and telepathy.  If you want to see more details on this essay, see my corresponding review for the stand-alone paperback version.<br />Overall, _The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche_ is a monumental, epic work.  A true magnum opus of psychology, I recommend this volume to anyone who is willing to take on a challenge for the pursuit of self-knowledge.s on this essay, see my corresponding review for the stand-alone paperback version.<br />Overall, _The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche_ is a monumental, epic work.  A true magnum opus of psychology, I recommend this volume to anyone who is willing to take on a challenge for the pursuit of self-knowledge.	2003-06-18
US	50317959	RYT8ZS3ATVFXH	0691017948	356513109	Synchronicity: An Acausal Connecting Principle	Books	5	156	161	N	Y	One of his most important essays	_Synchronicity_ is one of Jung's longer and better known essays.  It contains fascinating accounts of paranormal phenomenon, such as ESP, and Jung provides numerous examples and well-organized scientific data to prove the existence of psychokinesis and telepathy.  Such apparently miraculous phenomena are presumably the result of a purely subjective universe, in which seemingly concrete and objective happenings are created and altered within the confines of our individual subjective psyche.  Jung provides compelling evidence to prove this phenomenon of subjective psychic control over the outside, physical world; in the ESP experiments he cited, subjects were placed hundreds of miles away from the site of the experiment (in which a sequence of five different images were randomly uncovered and recorded), and asked to guess the sequence of images days and even weeks later.  Most subjects were able to guess what the images were at a rate that was statistically determined to be astronomically improbable.  By conducting the experiments in this manner, researchers were able to prove that, not only does ESP exist, it is NOT an energetic, kinetic, or physical phenomenon in the traditional sense.  The separation in time and space between the experimenter and the subject proves that ESP is not a phenomenon that can be attributed to wave motion or spacial transmission.  It is a purely subjective and psychic phenomenon.<br />The highlight of this book, however, is Jung's discussion of Tao.  Jung compares his synchronistic theory to the ideas of MEANINGFULNESS and HARMONY in the philosophy of Tao.  Ideas like ESP and psychokinesis help bolster Taoism's theory of the inherent harmony and intelligent, purposeful design underlying the universe.  Believe what you will, but this is a very interesting and very convincing book.  It is somewhat of a departure for Jung, however, and is not exactly his quintessential work; it would be a mistake to judge Jung simply based on this one narrowly focused work.  But it is very interesting nonetheless, and I highly recommend it to all readers.<br />Also keep in mind that _Synchronicity_ is reprinted in volume 8 of the Princeton/Bollingen series of the collected works of Carl Jung, entitled _The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche_.  Serious Jungians will probably want to go ahead and buy this full-length version, as it contains many other useful essays in addition to &quot;Synchronicity&quot;.y focused work.  But it is very interesting nonetheless, and I highly recommend it to all readers.<br />Also keep in mind that _Synchronicity_ is reprinted in volume 8 of the Princeton/Bollingen series of the collected works of Carl Jung, entitled _The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche_.  Serious Jungians will probably want to go ahead and buy this full-length version, as it contains many other useful essays in addition to &quot;Synchronicity&quot;.	2003-06-18
US	50317959	R3F4A9LHOXOZTT	0691097720	197415461	Psychology and Religion: West and East (The Collected Works of C. G. Jung, Volume 11)	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	Absolutely ESSENTIAL	_Psychology and Religion: West and East_ is definitely one of the top three most important books in the Princeton/Bollingen series of Jung's collected works.  As of now, it is only available in the ...hardcover edition, but you cannot put a price on the life-enhancing knowledge contained in this volume.<br />I will go over this volume one essay at a time:<br />The first essay is entitled \\"Psychology and Religion\\" and is a very useful, readable, and somewhat generalized overview on Jung's opinions on religion, and its usefulness in preventing neurosis.  This essay is an ideal introduction.<br />Next comes the esaay \\"A Psychological Approach to the Dogma of the Trinity\\".  This is a very complex and profound essay, and deals with some of the most perplexing and mysterious concepts in all of theology.  Specifically, it attempts to explain the precise nature of the Holy Ghost.  It may be hard to relate to this essay unless you have had a numinous religious experience, such as a connection of coincidences with an underlying Biblical message.  But Jung does a remarkable job dealing with this complex subject.<br />Next comes the essay \\"Transformation Symbolism in the Mass\\".  This is my least favorite essay in this collection.  Jung describes in excruciating detail the painstaking procedures involved in carrying out a proper symbolic mass.  This wouldn't be so bad if Jung would have actually given us his interpretation of the symbolic significance of the procedures contained within the mass, but he does not do this.  Instead, he simply explains in a very boring and dry manner what is to be done in performing the mass, and does not venture an interpretation of what any of this means.  This is the only weak essay in this volume, however, and the rest of the book is classic, vintage Jung. But to avoid getting bogged down and demotivated, I suggest you skip this essay.<br />After a few other short but useful essays, we come to the centerpiece of this volume, Jung's masterwork, \\"Answer to Job\\".  This is Jung's single greatest achievement, and one of his longest essays.  This essay alone is worth the price of this collection (although \\"Answer to Job\\" is available by itself in paperback).  Some critics have accused Jung of blasphemy because of this book, but in my opinion it is the greatest work of theology ever written, by anyone, ever.  For more details on this specific masterpiece, refer to my review on the stand-alone paperback edition of this great essay.<br />Finally, we have the section on Eastern religion.  Although this discussion on Asian religion comprises only about 1/4 of _Psychology and Religion: West and East_, it is perhaps the best interpretation of Eastern religion ever written by a westerner, eclipsing even the work of Zen masters Alan Watts and Aldous Huxley.  First is the discussion on the Tibetian Book of the Dead, which is fascinating (also see Timothy Leary's companion piece to this ancient work).  Next is a very poignant discussion on Yoga and the West.  It basically criticises westerners for \\"doing\\" Yoga like it is only a type of aerobic exercise, and neglecting the literary, scholarly, and philosophical aspects of Yoga.<br />Next comes the discossion on \\"Zen Satori\\".  This is probably the best essay in the section on Eastern religion.  Within this relatively short work, Jung provides invaluble insight into Zen enlightenment, and succeeds in showing us the way to a better  life, breaking free of fear, hate, negative emotion, and all other sources of neurosis.  Words cannot describe the positive and joyous forces which are unleashed by the Zen master Jung within this spectacular essay.<br />Finally, we have a masterful discussion of the I-Ching.  This essay, though brief, is a succint and insightful interpretation of this ancient work.  It is absolutely essential for anyone who is interested in the I-Ching, and it is also a competent and thorough introdution for those unfamiliar with the I-Ching.<br />Overall, this volume of essays is ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL for all Jungians.  5 +++  stars.  Highest recommendation.lume of essays is ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL for all Jungians.  5 +++  stars.  Highest recommendation.	2003-06-17
US	50317959	R3KK3J2GJLDAG1	0691020361	979552024	Philosophical Fragments/Johannes Climacus : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 7	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Precursor to _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_	_Philosophical Fragments/Johannes Climacus_ is essential reading for anyone who wishes to read the sequel, _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_, which is arguably Kierkegaard's most important work.  This first volume, even taken by itself, is still a valuble, well written, and entertaining work.  But its primary purpose is to establish the personality of Kierkegaard's infamous, neurotic character &quot;Johannes Climacus&quot;, the pseudonym under which he wrote this book as well as the monumental _Postscript_.  It is very important that any Kierkegaard scholar realize the author's intentions behind the creation of the Johannes Climacus character, and the exact relationship between Kierkegaard's real views and the often-antithetical, illogical, absurd, and even farcical views of his pseudonymous alter-ego.  In this book, the character of Johannes Climacus is established, and the careful reader should be able to identify the discrepency between Climacus' ideas and Kierkegaard's real ideas.  This characterization process is very interesting and makes for a good read, but to get the full effect you must also read _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_, in which the reader is treated to the full effect of the neurotic ramblings of Kierkegaard's alter-ego.	2003-06-12
US	50317959	R343HNYEK0XTRL	0691020817	379289706	Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments, Volume 1 (Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 12.1)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A monumental work	This is Kierkegaard's most important work - the real meat of his writings.  It is more difficult then most of his works and should be approached with caution, but it is absolutely essential to achieve a full understanding of Kierkegaard.  Keep in mind that _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_ was originally written under the pseudonym of Johannes Climacus, the sceptical and pessimistic alter ego of the real Kierkegaard.  Not to spoil the surprise, but in reading this book you should remember that much of what is being said is contradictory to Kierkegaard's real beliefs.  In my experience reading this book, I only began to realize this gradually.  This is because not EVERYTHING in this book is antithetical or diametrically opposed to Kierkegaard's real views; only portions of it are antithetical.  Kierkegaard truly engages and challenges the reader by exposing views that make sense at first, but then after letting Climacus get riled up, his rantings and ravings become increasingly illogical and pessimistic.  The challenge consists in discovering where the real Kierkegaard leaves off, and where the pseudonymous Johannes Climacus picks up.  The reader must constantly be on alert for antithetical and contradictory statements, and must approach this book with a highly critical mindset.  The end result is one of the most fantastically thought-provoking, creative, original, and entertaining books you will ever read.  By forcing the reader to take this critical approach, Kierkegaard gives us an opportunity to formulate and fortify our individual beliefs in contradistinction to those of Climacus, forcing us to truly think for ourselves.  The reader is bombarded with profound philosophical statements which are oten true and sensible, and can be proven consitsent with Kierkegaard's real beliefs.  But sandwiched between these logical statements, Climacus will say something so off the wall that the reader must subject these statements to a critical re-evaluation.  This is what makes the _Postscript_ such a profoundly thought-provoking and personally enriching experience.<br />One more thing to consider before you read this book: As I said, this book was written under the pseudonym Johannes Climacus.  To fully understand the inner workings of this character, you must also read _Philosophical Fragments/Johannes Climacus_, which is the precursor to _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_.  This first book helps the reader understand the pseudonymous and sometimes antithetical beliefs held by Kierkegaard's neurotic alter-ego.  Taken together, the _Johannes Climacus/Philosophical Fragments/ Conlcuding Unscientific Postscript_ series is the be-all end-all philosophical work of the 19th century.  It is a monumental achievement of epic proportions and will go down in history as the most important and profound work of literature to come out of Europe during that time period.akes the _Postscript_ such a profoundly thought-provoking and personally enriching experience.<br />One more thing to consider before you read this book: As I said, this book was written under the pseudonym Johannes Climacus.  To fully understand the inner workings of this character, you must also read _Philosophical Fragments/Johannes Climacus_, which is the precursor to _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_.  This first book helps the reader understand the pseudonymous and sometimes antithetical beliefs held by Kierkegaard's neurotic alter-ego.  Taken together, the _Johannes Climacus/Philosophical Fragments/ Conlcuding Unscientific Postscript_ series is the be-all end-all philosophical work of the 19th century.  It is a monumental achievement of epic proportions and will go down in history as the most important and profound work of literature to come out of Europe during that time period.	2003-06-12
US	50317959	R1GX6PIXG7J97B	0618057072	20096665	The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	5 ++ stars.  Awesome.	I cannot say enough good things about this book.  This is an absolute masterpiece, one of the top five books of the Twentieth century.  It is among my top three favorite books of all time.  This book is remarkably well-written and very readable.  It contains the ultimate combination of anthropology and neurology to explain the origins of human consciousness.  Never before have I read a book in which the author combined such diverse fields as anthropology and neurology and united them into such a harmonious and complementary whole.  The various sub-plots and reinforcing arguments seem to come from all directions to fortify and substantiate Jayne's main thesis.  Written in 1976, this book represents the cutting edge in modern man's search for understanding in this maze of life.  Forgive the hyperbole, but this is a literally prophetic work of the highest caliber and should be mandatory reading for all college-educated Americans.  One of the greatest books ever written. Buy it now.	2003-06-02
US	50317959	R2MC3YXFJAJ04L	0553371304	105591759	Food of the Gods: The Search for the Original Tree of Knowledge A Radical History of Plants, Drugs, and Human Evolution	Books	5	58	62	N	Y	A valuble conribution to the field of anthropology	_Food of the Gods_ by Terence Mckenna is an excellent addition to anyone's \\"alternative anthropology\\" library.  New ideas regarding the origins of intellegent life are always very interesting.  Mckenna also has some valuble sociological insights regarding the history of drug abuse, and reminds us that sugar, coffee, and chocolate are potent psychoactive substances that are just as addictive and just as unhealthful as tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or psilocybin.  It is refreshing to see someone try to level the playing field with regards to drug use, and finally admit that almost every adult in the entire western world is highly dependent on a variety of different drugs.  It seems that Mckenna is taking a step in the right direction from a civil rights standpoint by lessening the taboos associated with certain drugs that are associated with the counter-culture, while reminding us of the caffeine and sugar addiction epedemic that is going on right under our noses.  This book made me realize that drugs which are widely accepted and advocated by civilized society are not that much different from those which are outlawed.  Overall, this is a fascinating anthropological and counter-cultural manifesto. Highly recommended.	2003-06-02
US	50317959	R10ZNA7NLF04M1	0691017824	349702033	Two Essays on Analytical Psychology (Collected Works of C.G. Jung Vol.7)	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	One of his best	_Analytical Psychology_ is one of the most succinct, miserly, and potent of all of Carl Jung's works.  Most if not all of Jung's most important concepts are crammed into this slim volume.  For experienced readers of nonfiction philosophy and psychology, this might be the best place to start reading Jung, especially if all you want is a crash-course in Jung's most important ideas.  This is by no means an introductory-level book. For beginners, I would recommend Jung's masterpiece, _Modern Man in Search of a Soul_ (although that one's only slightly easier).  _Analytical Psychology_ is for people who are already familier with Jung and want to reach the apex of his psychology, or for experienced readers who want to lean as much as possible about Jungian psychology in as little time as possible.  Be forewarned that this book is extremely dense, yet this is a result of the inherent complexity of the subject matter, and not so much a result of bad writing or bad translation.  Overall, I would say the knowledge contained in this book is well worth the effort.  This book is packed with useful information that can actually improve the quality of your life, increase understanding and control of situations, decrease neurosis, and lead to overall enlightenment.  Highly recommended.	2003-06-02
US	50317959	R3BKKNAQL1PA64	0062506137	826560362	The Archaic Revival: Speculations on Psychedelic Mushrooms, the Amazon, Virtual Reality, UFOs, Evolution, Shamanism, the Rebirth of the Goddess, and the End of History	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	An update on Jungian concepts	_The Archaic Revival_ is most memorable for its section on UFO's, and the psychological implications of the alien-abduction phenomenon.  This is not to say that Mckenna is obsessed with aliens or that he believes these abductions really are happening.  His beliefs are essentially an update on Carl Jung's idea that UFO encounters are a generic form of &quot;psychic phenomenon&quot;.  That is, they are a type of hallucination originating from the individual's inborn archetypal unconscious.  The alien abduction is merely a form of personality complex dissociation - a result of a split-personality or a full-blown psychotic episode.  However, both Mckenna and Jung are in agreement that this type of encounter does not necessarily mean the victim is crazy.  It is simply a revelation or vision of the &quot;archetype&quot;, and this is not necessarily good or bad.  It is merely a strange but undeniable psychic phenomenon.<br />The _Archaic Revival_  also contains other interesting essays, often emphasizing the concept that language is the basis of all consciousness and reality.  Mckenna has many insightful theories on the nature of langauage, consciousness, subjectivity, solipsism, and the self as center of the universe. I highly recommend this book to all readers.	2003-06-02
US	50317959	R23U931T2Q2X1I	0062506358	53040651	The Invisible Landscape: Mind, Hallucinogens, and the I Ching	Books	5	113	118	N	Y	Revolutionary! THE Future of Psychology!	_The Invisible Landscape_ by Terence and Dennis Mckenna is a highly modernized, up-to-date version of Jungian psychotherapy with an emphasis on brain-chemistry at the molecular level.  Mckenna has fascinating theories on the nuances and inner workings of the subatomic particles within the DNA molecules in the human brain.  According to Mckenna, the behavior of the atoms within our DNA actually determines the very nature of our conscious existence.  Specifically, the patterns in which the electrons orbit the atomic nuclei in our DNA atoms form an Analog representation of what we are seeing; the electrons themselves move in such a manner as to create a type of morse-code which translates our sense perceptions into conscious being.  This &quot;analog theory of the brain&quot; represents the crowning achievement of this book.  The vibrations of the subtomic particles in our brain create reality in the same way in which digital and analog code create images on a computer screen.<br />But all of this has yet to be proved.  Nevertheless, _The Invisible Landscape_ is a modern masterpiece of speculative philosophy/psychology.  It represents the outermost reaches of far-seeing speculative theory.  It is, therefore, a welcome departure from more conservative forms of thinking.  Terence Mckenna also tries his hand at claivoyant soothsaying, providing the reader with his own unique doomsday prophecy loosely based on the hexagrams of the I-Ching.  This so-called &quot;timewave zero&quot; graph maps the cycles of cultural and social &quot;novelty&quot; mankind has experienced over history.  Suffice it to say that this theory is still open to debate.<br />Overall, the analog theory of mind, along with the &quot;holographic theory of mind&quot;, make this book worth reading.  _The Invisible Landscape_ is a hidden gem of psychological theory that should not be overlooked.  Even though its emphasis is on complex molecular theories, it is quite readable and entertaining.  It is geared toward the literary mind as well as the scientific mind, so I would recommend it to any ambitious reader regardless of their experience in neurology or chemistry.toward the literary mind as well as the scientific mind, so I would recommend it to any ambitious reader regardless of their experience in neurology or chemistry.	2003-06-02
US	50317959	R2I35EW0YOF7ZA	0156612062	580523676	Modern Man in Search of a Soul	Books	5	38	39	N	N	The best place to start reading Jung	_Modern Man in Search of a Soul_ is the first book you should read by Jung.  That is not to say that it is particularly easy; it is by no means a watered-down layman's version of Jung.  This is Jung at full intensity.  It is an ideal introduction simply because it deals with his more accessable concepts, such as the actual practice of psychotherapy, the doctor-patient relationship, the types of things a doctor should say to his patients, ect.  It also deals with broader sociological issues and does not get bogged down with esoteric concepts such as alchemy and ancient mythology.  Overall, I would say this is a perfectly crafted philosophical/psychological work.  It is potent, miserly, well-written, well-translated, and never gets bogged down with unreadable, esoteric sections.  It is not as far-reaching and revolutionary as some of Jung's works, but it is a magnificent work of art pared down to the absolute essentials.  Overall it is one of the top five books ever written, by any author, from any genre or time period.  Also, as a side note, I would recomend _Psychotherapy East and West_ by the American author Alan Watts as a companion piece to Jung's _Modern Man in Search of a Soul_.	2003-05-28
US	50317959	RI5CM078M1HN4	069101826X	656254617	Aion: Researches into the Phenomenology of the Self (Collected Works of C.G. Jung Vol.9 Part 2)	Books	5	64	67	N	N	One of his greatest works	_Aion_ is part 2 of volume nine of Jung's collected works.  Although _Aion_ is unquestionably a stand-alone work, ideally it should be read after part 1, which is _Archetypes of the Collective Unconscious_.<br />That said, _Aion_ is one of Jung's greatest works and is one of the first three that anyone who is new to Jung should start with.  The first part deals with Christianity, and the significance of the death of Christ.  This is treated as a legitimate, factual historical event, yet it is also explained as a collective pschic phenomenon in the general sense.  The middle part of the book deals with ancient alchemy, and the symbolic parallels between alchemy and modern conceptions of psychology.  This might sound dull, but trust me - you will be surprised to see the uncanny symbolic parallels between ancient magical practices and the most modern, up to date theories of the psyche.  This is discussed at length in the section on the \\"Two Fishes\\", which is one of Jung's greatest essays (although quite difficult).  The final section deals with quaternity symbolism, and features a wide array of strange diagrams.  About 200 pages in, these diagrams will become more frequent, and the reader might get frustrated trying to see the significance of these rudimentary drawings.  Personally, my advice is to stop reading after 200 pages.  All of the useful essays are contained within these first 200 pages, while the final 50 or so pages contains esoteric essays which can be considered, at best, curiosity pieces for the insatiable, die-hard Jungian.  The editiors wisely confined this esoterica to final few pages of the book.  This is not to take anything away from the book as a whole.  Overall, _Aion_ is extremely profound and insightful, and is a must read for Jungians and non-Jungians alike.	2003-05-28
US	50317959	R3GYHQQZ228CRS	0691018332	163885165	The Archetypes and The Collective Unconscious (Collected Works of C.G. Jung Vol.9 Part 1)	Books	5	223	231	N	Y	An Essential Work by Jung.	This work, along with _Modern Man in Search of a Soul_, is one of the best places to start if you are new to reading Jung.  It is also the companion piece and predecessor to _Aion_, which is another spectacular and groundbreaking work.  If you want to read _Aion_, it would make sense for you to read this one first, since it is part 1 of volume nine, while _Aion_ is part two.  Overall, I would say that both parts 1 and 2 of volume nine are absolutely essential reading for any Jungian, and if you're going to buy one, go ahead and buy both.<br />As for the actual content of _The Archetypes of the Collective Unconscious_, I would describe it as an overview and recapitulation of many of Jung's key concepts.  As the title implies, the main concepts are archetypal images (as revealed in to people in dreams) and the collective unconscious.  These are trademark Jungian concepts, and Jung devoted a large portion of his writings to explaining what he meant by Archetypes and the collective unconscious.  If I could explain it to you right here I would, but Jung spends a the first two hundred pages of this book simply explaining and defining &quot;archetype&quot; and &quot;collective unconscious&quot;.  These are key concepts in understanding the human mind, and may help unlock the mysteries of conscious existence; it is by no means superfluous to devote such rigorous study to these ideas.  _The Archetypes and the Collcetive Unconscious_ is NOT a narrowly focused, specialized, or jargonistic work.  It deals with ideas that are central to understanding the human psyche or soul, and applies universally to all of mankind.<br />There is also a pictorial section of the book in which Jung actually shows examples, in the form of paintings, of archetypal images that were seen by his patients in their dreams  and subsequently drawn by the patients themselves.  Some of these paintings are very artistic, and there are uncanny similarities among many of them.  This pictorial section occurs about 200 pages in.  After the pictures, Jung goes into a detailed explanation of each one, which I found to be somewhat tiresome, especially considering many of the paintings were extremely similar.  Overall, the final, brief, section of the book in which the paintings are described is quite boring, and I would recommend that the reader simply look at the paintings and forego the final explanations, which are extremely redundant.  In other words, read the first two hundred pages, look at the pictures, stop, and then move on to _Aion_.  The weakness of this final section is not enough to justify removing a star from my ratings, however, simply because of the utter profundity and potency of the first 200 pages, which represents the majority of the book anyway.  Keep in mind that the vast majority of Jung's writings consist of essays not more that 100 pages long each.  You will find that most of his complete works contain numerous profound and insightful essays, occasionally laced with the odd, specialized, highly esoteric essays.  When you come across one of these rare but unreadable essays the best idea is to just skip it rather than get bogged down.  This is not to take anything away from Jung and his great, prophetic works; I am just trying to give you the heads up on how to avoid some of the rough patches.bout 200 pages in.  After the pictures, Jung goes into a detailed explanation of each one, which I found to be somewhat tiresome, especially considering many of the paintings were extremely similar.  Overall, the final, brief, section of the book in which the paintings are described is quite boring, and I would recommend that the reader simply look at the paintings and forego the final explanations, which are extremely redundant.  In other words, read the first two hundred pages, look at the pictures, stop, and then move on to _Aion_.  The weakness of this final section is not enough to justify removing a star from my ratings, however, simply because of the utter profundity and potency of the first 200 pages, which represents the majority of the book anyway.  Keep in mind that the vast majority of Jung's writings consist of essays not more that 100 pages long each.  You will find that most of his complete works contain numerous profound and insightful essays, occasionally laced with the odd, specialized, highly esoteric essays.  When you come across one of these rare but unreadable essays the best idea is to just skip it rather than get bogged down.  This is not to take anything away from Jung and his great, prophetic works; I am just trying to give you the heads up on how to avoid some of the rough patches.	2003-05-28
US	50317959	R2L5KG843T1SE4	0394719239	706190985	Beyond Theology: The Art of Godsmanship	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Fast paced and readable	_Beyond Theology_ is an excellent work for those who are new to Alan Watts, or theology in general.  It is fairly easy to read, and has a type of agnostic flavor to it that might be appropriate for people who want to dabble in low-maintenance spirituality.  But even for the serious reader of Alan Watts and serious theological students, I would still recommend this one because it is rather effortless and relaxing, while providing some profound psychological insights.  It is also a key transitional work bridging the gap between Watt's earlier Western-religious works, and his later Eastern-religious works.  With _Beyond Theology_, you can see the beginnings of what was to become a more pantheistic and almost nihilistic type of sprituality.  If you want to really understand Watts' later works, you must read his magnum-opus _Psychotherapy East and West_ in addition to this one.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R3D5ZYEJLR6VHT	0394719042	806590155	This Is It: and Other Essays on Zen and Spiritual Experience	Books	5	25	28	N	Y	Short but Good	_This Is It_ by Alan Watts is a good solid work, but is too short to provide the rigorous instruction needed to achieve any appreciable amount of enlightenment or Zen Satori.  That said, it is a wonderful, enjoyable, and profound book page for page, and is essential to round out your collection of Alan Watts' more recent and well-known works.  _This Is It_ is also perfect for someone who does not want a megadose of strenuous philosophy and theology; it is ideal for those who are new to psychological-religious non-fiction, or who do not have the time to hack through some kind of magnum-opus epic of philosophy. If, however,  you want to read one of the more comprehensive books by Alan Watts, I would recommend _Psychotherapy East and West_, which is his best work.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R1NQJDCESY7HR9	0394718356	107028455	The Supreme Identity	Books	4	34	36	N	Y	Dense and Potent	_The Supreme Identity_ is one of the more important among the earlier works by Alan Watts.  It engages the reader with a rigorous theological discussion which is thought provoking yet mentally taxing.  At times he lapses into hair-splitting minutae in examining theological issues, and the result is what the author himself admitted was a &quot;sometimes tortuous argument&quot;.  However, I would still recommend this one to anyone who wants to go right after the meat of Alan Watts' theology, or for those who wish read stuff from his earlier Christian stage as opposed to his later works, when he dealt almost exclusively with Eastern religion.  Before you read this one, I would strongly suggest you read _Behold the Spirit_, which is more readable but just as profound as _The Supreme Identity_.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R2LIT3SRSU4PW6	0807013757	473488211	Myth and Ritual In Christianity	Books	4	29	32	N	Y	An exhaustive study of Catholic ritualistic practices	This book is a comprehensive and thorough, yet narrowly focused study on Christial ritual - specifically the gesticulations and gyrations associated with the Catholic mass.  Protestants have always had a very difficult time understanding why Catholics do things the way they do, and now this book might help shed some light on this mystery.  Even as a non-Catholic I was able to get a lot out of this book, but it must be approached with an open mind.  Anyone who is dead set against the idea of elaborate, symbolic church rituals might find this book to be unfathomable.  But if you look into the symbolism and psychological parallelism of these rituals, you will find that there is profound meaning and significace to what might have earlier appeared to be mere suprstitious incantation.  This book is worth reading if you are curious as to the deeper philosophic significance of the actions performed at the Catholic mass, and non-Catholic Christians will be able to look into some of the religious secrets they have been missing.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R18JC96M5CWPKV	0020681100	498044731	The Two Hands of God: The Myths of Polarity	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	His definitive work on myth	_Two Hands of God_ is an overall superior work by Alan Watts, and is instumental in understanding obscure Eastern-religious myth.  Anyone who is interested in the mythical studies of authors such as Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell should check out this little-known and vastly underrated book.  It is a very valuble contribution to our understanding of primitive and not-so-primitive myth. You will be amazed to see the parallels between modern psychology and ancient ritual.  This book can also help us appreciate the profound significance and sophistication of mythology and ritual outside of the Christian world - it may help to break down some of our bias and superiority complexes.  Even if it is still out of print, somehow you must find a way to get your hands on this book through Amazon's network of used book sellers.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R1XX5BJ919TV3T	0394716094	681596631	Psychotherapy East and West	Books	5	60	63	N	Y	His Best Work.	Vastly underrated and tragically out of print, _Psychotherapy East and West_ is Alan Watts' greatest work, and is one of the greatest works of psychology/philosophy of the twentieth century written in English.  This book is also an ideal introductory course to the psychology of Carl G. Jung.  Anyone who wants to read Jung should read this first (even though it came later) because it encompasses all of Jungs key concepts in an ultra-concentrated yet remarkably readable form.  That is not to say that Jung is unreadable, because he most certainly is a great, easily translatable writer.  But Alan Watts had the advantage of writing in English, and for this reason I believe _Psychotherapy East and West_ is THE ULTIMATE introduction to psychology for the Anglo-American reader.  It represents the new wave of fusion psychology/philosophy/religious Asian cusine.  No longer should all these fields be separated.  Alan Watts and Carl Jung together have succeeded in combining the fields of psychology, philosophy, theology, and anthropological mythology.  This is the new wave of generalized spiritual enlightenment which is also unbiased, critical, sceptical and truthful. It has spawned such other great authors as Julian Jaynes and Terrance McKenna.  The best thing about this new kind of psychotherapy is that it is not cold and pretentious with regard to religion, but is tolerant and advocating of any type of belief system which enhances people's well being and mental health.  Because it is nevertheless rigorous in uncovering the truth, it resembles Eastern Buddhism.  Keep in mind that Buddhism makes no firm and unverifiable claims regarding the existence of God or an afterlife; it is simply a stategy for living one's life in the most enjoyable way possible, and _Psychotherapy East and West_ does an excellent job in making this way of life accessable to Americans.  This book is the ultimate alliance of belief, spirtuality, psychotherapy, and mental well-being on the one hand, and truthful, critical philosophy on the other.  It does not wish to insulate people from spiritual crises and keep them suspended in naive belief, but introduces us to a new wave of spiritualism that is hardened by scepticism and impervious to doubt.  While some philosophy might pride itself on debunking unverifiable beliefs, it does not provide a solution to man's broken and neurotic psychological condition due to his lost spirituality. _Psychotherapy East and West_, on the other hand, is respective of truth, critical and sceptical, yet provides firm answers as to how we can avoid the neuroses and depression that might result from an upending of our spiritual beliefs. Unconditionally recommended.  One of my top five books of all time, of any genre.ruthful, critical philosophy on the other.  It does not wish to insulate people from spiritual crises and keep them suspended in naive belief, but introduces us to a new wave of spiritualism that is hardened by scepticism and impervious to doubt.  While some philosophy might pride itself on debunking unverifiable beliefs, it does not provide a solution to man's broken and neurotic psychological condition due to his lost spirituality. _Psychotherapy East and West_, on the other hand, is respective of truth, critical and sceptical, yet provides firm answers as to how we can avoid the neuroses and depression that might result from an upending of our spiritual beliefs. Unconditionally recommended.  One of my top five books of all time, of any genre.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R3AGVNCD9K1PZ3	0394717619	130058897	Behold the Spirit: A Study in the Necessity of Mystical Religion	Books	5	78	79	N	Y	One of His Best!	_Behold The Spirit_ is one of the most clearly written, profound, and enlightening books on theology I have ever read.  This book represents the ideal combination of profundity and readability - never again will you say that a book must be difficult to read just because it deals with extremely complex and deep subject matter.  Like most of Alan Watts' books, _Behold the Spirit_ is an absolute pleasure to read, yet competently deals with universal metaphysical questions which have troubled man for many centuries.  For instance, Alan Watts talks at length about the problem of what God was doing before He created the universe.  Was He just sitting there alone?  The answer can be found in the book.<br />To me, this type of theological question is quite fascinating.  I appreciated the unorthodox and critical approach  Watts took in examining a wide range of theological and general metaphysical issues.  In other words, this is not an evangelical or fundamentalist Christian book; it is a critical and sceptical examination of Christianity and man's belief in God.  I highly recommend this work to anyone, and if you only want to read one or two of Alan Watts' most important works, they should be _Behold the Spirit_ and _Psychotherapy East and West_.  These two works represent the solid core of Alan Watts' philosophy. They are rigourous, profound, and comprehensive psychological  works which are also remarkably succinct, miserly, and readable.  With Alan Watts, you can obtain large amounts of elightenment in a short amount of time, with minimal aggravation and headache.	2003-05-13
US	50317959	R25NUVAT06WWZO	0691020116	165585636	The Concept of Anxiety: A Simple Psychologically Orienting Deliberation on the Dogmatic Issue of Hereditary Sin (Kierkegaard's Writings, VIII) (v. 8)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Essential Kierkegaard	_The Concept of Anxiety_ is one of Kierkegaard's most straightforward, honest, and personal works.  Primarily, it deals with the typical human understanding of sin, why we designate certain acts as sinful, and how our perception or experience of these acts is altered by the fact that they are labled as &quot;sinful&quot;.  This book approaches the question of sin in a very enlightening and insightful manner, questioning certain aspects of sinfulness that we may have taken for granted.  Kierkegaard reminds us that our experience of the sensual is greatly altered when the idea of &quot;sinfulness&quot; is attached to it, while paradoxically our understanding the definition of &quot;sin&quot;  is contingent upon our sensual experiences.  In other words, sin is simultaneously a necessary force in establishing what we consider to be sensual, while also being somewhat dependent on pure sensuality in order to establish itself as sin.  Kierkegaard also examines the linguistic factors that contribute to our understanding of sensuousness and sinfulness.  Kierkegaard asks us, to what extent to we depend upon language in order to solidify these primal sensual experiences in our memories?  This book deals brilliantly with the entire spectrum of interrelationships among pure sensuality, sin, guilt, langauge, and memory.  Kierkegaard weaves a tapestry showing us how all of the afforementioned concepts are inextricably intertwined.  In sum, the message Kierkegaard is trying to convey is the fact that sin, language, memory, and the sensual are connected in both the retroactive and premonitory sense.<br />Overall this book is absolutely fascinating.  It is not puritanical or biased in the orthodox religious sense.  It deals very fairly with the human experience of sin and guilt, and suggests that these types of feelings are essential to the basic experiences of memory, sentient consciousness, and temporal, existential being.  Highly recommended to anyone who is willing to entertain the idea that sin is a basic building block of intelligent subjective experience.the idea that sin is a basic building block of intelligent subjective experience.	2003-04-07
US	50317959	R355HEQ6UI1FON	0691020639	670308312	Practice in Christianity : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 20	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Important Kierkegaard	_Practice in Christianity_ is one of Kierkegaard's more underrated books, and should not be overlooked.  I will summarize his concepts as best I can:  In this book Kierkegaard encourages a rigorous and \\"militant\\" practice of Christianity.  By \\"militant\\" he does not mean violence in the physical sense, obviously.  What he means is a determination to constantly find better ways to understand God and Christ, even though every question that gets answered seems to spawn more questions.  Rigorous Christianity is a continuous chasing after that which perpetually eludes us.  Even though we may never reach a true catharsis in our understanding, the process of continually seeking understanding is still beneficial to the individual.  It helps to strenthen the uniqueness of our individuality, and helps to set us apart from society in a way that preserves the \\"heterogeneity\\" of society.  Kierkegaard stresses the importance of maintaining heterogeneity within society because this is essential in the creation of individual personalities, and is an essential ingredient to conscious life in general.  Kierkegaard states it thus: \\"woe to the Christian Church when it will have been victorious in this world, for then it is not the Church which has been victorious but the world.  Then the heterogeneity between Christianity and the world has vanished, and Christiantiy has lost\\" (p. 223).  It is important that society does not ever reach a consensus on what to believe in, because then we will all rest on our laurels and abandon the continual, rigorous striving that is essential in enhancing our individualist personalities.  The loss of individualism is synonymous with the end of conscious life and self-awareness as we know it.  There must always be individuals who stand out as beacons of virtue, if for no other reason than to infuse other people with life by making them feel inadequate and subjugated.  Rigorous, militant Christians must always turn their back on the world and strive for something better, and indoing so they help to blaze a trail into higher realms of understanding, dragging the reluctant congregation behind them.<br />If these concepts sound interesting to you, I highly recommend this volume.  Die hard atheists will probably view this book as a fruitless discussion over a moot point.  But people who consider themselves  Christian, and want to set themselves apart from other lackadaisical, so-called Christians, could benefit greatly by reading this book.  This is not a book for people who show up to church just to show up and then fall asleep in the pew - it is for people who want to reach a higher standard of rigorous practice in religion.mething better, and indoing so they help to blaze a trail into higher realms of understanding, dragging the reluctant congregation behind them.<br />If these concepts sound interesting to you, I highly recommend this volume.  Die hard atheists will probably view this book as a fruitless discussion over a moot point.  But people who consider themselves  Christian, and want to set themselves apart from other lackadaisical, so-called Christians, could benefit greatly by reading this book.  This is not a book for people who show up to church just to show up and then fall asleep in the pew - it is for people who want to reach a higher standard of rigorous practice in religion.	2003-04-07
US	50317959	RGSGK9AGXXG24	0691020280	106291802	The Sickness Unto Death: A Christian Psychological Exposition For Upbuilding And Awakening (Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 19) (v. 19)	Books	5	112	114	N	N	Fascinating	_The Sickness Unto Death_ is a good place to start reading Kierkegaard.  It is shorter than most of his works, and provides a good overview of his most important concepts.  One such concept is man's intense desire to understand or somehow obtain proof of the existence of God.  Because of our intense fear of death, we are constantly seeking out ways to relieve our doubt concerning the immortality of the soul.  Kierkegaard examines this death-drive with remarkable insight, stating that it is in some ways noble, but in other ways is a gross imposition upon God, and a disrespect for God's privacy.  In one passage, Kierkegaard suggests that we seek out reasons to experience despair simply in order to drag God across hot coals; that is, in order for us to reach a satisfactory understanding of the existence and/or goodness of God, we have a tendency to go out of our way to find reasons NOT to believe in God. Sometimes these reasons consist in outward examples of atrocities and widespread acts of destructive evil.  Other times our despair is of a more inward form, in which we seek to disprove God because of our own shortcomings in avoiding sin.  In other words, if we are evil, and consider ourselves to be abnormally bad sinners, we have a vested interest in disproving God; because of our fear of punishment, the existence of God runs counter to our best interests.  On the other side of the spectrum, Kierkegaard portrays the more virtuous type of faith as one that avoids higher levels of understanding.  Considering the over-abundance in this world of acts we percieve to be evil, it stands to reason that God does not WANT to be fully understood.  On page 98, Kierkegaard states: \\"Is it such great merit or is it not rather insolence or thoughtlessness to want to comprehend that which does not want to be comprehended?\\"  On p.38 he states: \\"to believe is indeed to lose the understanding in order to gain God\\".  All of this is not to say that Kierkegaard is an anti-intellectual or nihilist.  Kierkegaard, who once admitted that he \\"gropes for the tragic in every direction\\" in a perverse and convoluted desire to \\"see\\" God, is just as guilty as anyone of this \\"imposition\\" upon God.  His intention is simply bringing to light the dynamics of our strange tendencies to unearth the tragic and the role of death and fear in propelling our desire to understand God.  Kierkegaard is not judgemental or admonishing in his treatment of these natural human drives towards knowledge; he just wants to enlighten us on why we act the way we do, and what are the inner springs of our creativity and curiosity.  The sources of these creative drives do not always present a pretty picture, but Kierkegaard is honest with himself and with the reader in exposing the dark forces underlying our seemingly innocent intellectual curiosity.<br />Overall I highly recommend this book to all readers, especially those wanting to get a brief overview of some of Kierkegaard's most important ideas.  It is also an excellent precursor to _The Concept of Anxiety_, which picks up where this one left off.ihilist.  Kierkegaard, who once admitted that he \\"gropes for the tragic in every direction\\" in a perverse and convoluted desire to \\"see\\" God, is just as guilty as anyone of this \\"imposition\\" upon God.  His intention is simply bringing to light the dynamics of our strange tendencies to unearth the tragic and the role of death and fear in propelling our desire to understand God.  Kierkegaard is not judgemental or admonishing in his treatment of these natural human drives towards knowledge; he just wants to enlighten us on why we act the way we do, and what are the inner springs of our creativity and curiosity.  The sources of these creative drives do not always present a pretty picture, but Kierkegaard is honest with himself and with the reader in exposing the dark forces underlying our seemingly innocent intellectual curiosity.<br />Overall I highly recommend this book to all readers, especially those wanting to get a brief overview of some of Kierkegaard's most important ideas.  It is also an excellent precursor to _The Concept of Anxiety_, which picks up where this one left off.	2003-04-07
US	50317959	R1BG1WTYPEFU6D	0898704448	236877231	The Everlasting Man	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	Flies in the face of conventional scientific wisdom	This book opens up with a very strange discussion concerning our conventional assumptions regarding the &quot;cave man&quot;, primitive man, and Neanderthals in general.  Chesterton seems to believe that these people were much more intelligent and sophisticated than we give them credit for being.  I interpreted this to be a sort of refutation or denial of Darwinism, although Darwinism is rarely if ever mentioned specifically.  By assuming the cave man to be a more sophisticated spiritual being than previously assumed, Chesterton seems to be implying that these people had a direct relationship with God.  From this we must assume that the cave man does not represent the &quot;missing link&quot; or evolutionary transitory species that would be critical to upholding Darwinism.  In other words, Chesterton is trying to refute Darwinism by uplifting the cave man closer to our current level of intelligence, rather than degrade him into a neo-primate type creature representing a transitional phase between archaic primates and man.  I will leave it to the reader to decide if this denial of Darwinism is convincing.  But all the objective scientific purists out there will probably not be convinced by much of what Chesterton has to say, because he does not provide much in the way of scientific proof or examples.  For some this might be an unpardonable sin, but in my opinion, this book is enhanced by the fact that it doesn't get bogged down with boring empirical details.  Chesterton's non-scientific approach is refreshing in that it it readable, free-flowing, speculative, and somewhat instinctual.  Although Chesterton relies heavily on his gut-feelings, and is highly speculative in his conclusions, the witty and down-to-earth writing style more than makes up for any lack of boring, scientific methodology in supporting these conclusions.<br />This book is ideal for people who want to find the right balance between a book that is informative and thought-provoking on the one hand, but readable and enjoyable on the other.  Sometimes it is important to forgoe enjoyment in the name of uncovering unbiased, objective truth, and granted, Chesterton does not establish anything close to such an objective, empirical truth in this book.  However, there is a need for a style of free-flowing speculation, uninhibited and unencumbered by scientific rigour.  It makes for a more enjoyable philosophy, which can cover more ground by being more generalized and all-encompassing, and less narrowly focused and specialized.  In the end, much of what Chesterton has to say is sensible, plausible, and believable.  We should take this book seriously; just not TOO seriously.  I highly recommend this book to someone who wants a down-to-earth philosophical chat with one of the most skilled English authors of the twentieth century.ut readable and enjoyable on the other.  Sometimes it is important to forgoe enjoyment in the name of uncovering unbiased, objective truth, and granted, Chesterton does not establish anything close to such an objective, empirical truth in this book.  However, there is a need for a style of free-flowing speculation, uninhibited and unencumbered by scientific rigour.  It makes for a more enjoyable philosophy, which can cover more ground by being more generalized and all-encompassing, and less narrowly focused and specialized.  In the end, much of what Chesterton has to say is sensible, plausible, and believable.  We should take this book seriously; just not TOO seriously.  I highly recommend this book to someone who wants a down-to-earth philosophical chat with one of the most skilled English authors of the twentieth century.	2003-04-05
US	50317959	R2HHKRONQFIN1Z	015675830X	127927021	The Rat	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of his best	_The Rat_ is my favorite novel by Gunter Grass.  It is miserly and potent, with very little wasted space or filler.  It is an almost continuous stream-of-conscience monologue; it is the nonstop ranting and raving of an angst-ridden person in the midst of a spiritual crisis, venting his frustration and confusion.  Overall, this technique proves to be a very successful literary device.  It reads almost like nonfiction philosophy, and because Grass does not get bogged down with an absurd plot and characterization, this novel provides an ideal vehicle for his undiluted spiritual-philosophical beliefs.  Keep in mind, however, that there is very little in the way of action, charaterization, and concrete plot events in this novel.  If you are looking for a more traditional novel, you may want to look elsewhere.  Nevertheless, I still believe this is Grass' best work because it is personal and revealing with regards to his deepest sources of philosophical angst and spiritual misgivings.  I recommend this book to anyone who really wants to know what is going on in the mind of Gunter Grass.	2003-04-05
US	50317959	RUCN2XRXUUHEC	0061316865	900157080	On Certainty (English and German Edition)	Books	3	19	73	N	Y	Good for a laugh maybe	Wittgenstein was a man who despised all things metaphysical and spiritual.  He fancied himself a no-nonsense objectivist who would not be hoodwinked by false religious promises or tricked into seeing intangible ghosts.  However, Wittgenstein's philosophy seems to have centered around a type of solipsism, which strikes me as the most outlandish, metaphysical, and fantastical philosophy imaginable.  He refuses to acknowledge the existence of anything that he is not able to see before him; it is ironic that someone who so vehemently denies the existence of ghosts wants to regard nearly every being and entity on the face of the earth a ghost, if he is not there to see it.  Wittgenstein has quite literally put the very existence of the concrete universe into question.  Everything has become some type of hallucination, and is reduced to pure irreality when a subject is not present.  This strikes me as a very metaphysical philosophy indeed.  Wittgenstein's solipsism has spiraled out of control and taken on a life of its own.  For him the self is everything; all so-called objective entities spring from the subjective self, leaving us with no real objctive reality or atomic facts at all.  All we are left with is Wittgenstein, the self-appointed possessor, owner, and sovereign monarch of the known universe.  None of us exist unless Wittgenstein invites us into his little world, and we cease to exist the moment we exit his field of vision.  I, for one, take exception to this.  Hey Wittgenstein: - I exist - get used to it - I'm here to stay - you cannot expel me from the universe - the world does not revolve around you!  What could be more non-objective than denying the very existence of any and all objectivity?  What could be more outlandishly speculative and fantastic than denying the conscious sentience of all other beings?  Wittgenstein's solipsism has quite simply mutated into an astonishingly egotistical megalomania. This philosophy lacks common sense.<br />That said, I have nothing but the utmost respect for the intellectuals who are able to decipher this philosophy.  It is an important and inevitable philosophic movement, and can be  very helpful and informative with regards to how NOT to think.  All philosophers must at least consider and come to terms with Wittgenstein's solipsism; we must work our way through this philosophy and find a way to transcend it.  Regardless of your attitude towards this philosophy, I must recommend Brand Blanshard's great book, _Reason and Analysis_, as an eloquent respose to the philosophy of Wittgenstein.  No one can be a true expert on Wittgenstein unless they are able to answer to the criticisms directed at his concepts.  If you are ever going to be able to uphold this philosophy you must be able to answer to your critics and know what people on the other side are saying.  If you read Blanshard's _Reason and Analysis_, you will be much better equipped to deal with Wittgenstein's detractors.ave nothing but the utmost respect for the intellectuals who are able to decipher this philosophy.  It is an important and inevitable philosophic movement, and can be  very helpful and informative with regards to how NOT to think.  All philosophers must at least consider and come to terms with Wittgenstein's solipsism; we must work our way through this philosophy and find a way to transcend it.  Regardless of your attitude towards this philosophy, I must recommend Brand Blanshard's great book, _Reason and Analysis_, as an eloquent respose to the philosophy of Wittgenstein.  No one can be a true expert on Wittgenstein unless they are able to answer to the criticisms directed at his concepts.  If you are ever going to be able to uphold this philosophy you must be able to answer to your critics and know what people on the other side are saying.  If you read Blanshard's _Reason and Analysis_, you will be much better equipped to deal with Wittgenstein's detractors.	2003-04-05
US	50317959	RDMEZE4971TOG	0875481124	187282436	Reason & Analysis (Paul Carus Lectures)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Very Convincing	This is one of the most painstakingly argued philosophies I have ever encountered.  Blanshard is obsessive-compulsive in his maniacal destruction of the philosophies of Wittgenstein and Bertrand Russel.  Brand Blanshard is a man on the warpath; he will not be satisfied until every aspect of the aforementioned philosophies has been ground into dust.  And indeed they are ground into dust.  I do not see how anyone could be taken in by the concepts of Russel and Wittgenstein after reading this book.<br />All of this is not to say that Blanshard is a parasitic writer.  There is more to this book than simply the destruction of other peoples' life's work.  However, after reading _Reason and Analysis_, I realize that I have not seen this many instances of abuse of a corpse since the infamous &quot;tri-state crematory scandal&quot; in north Georgia.  Blanshard simply will not leave these poor guys alone!  Wittgenstein has rolled over in his grave so many times that he's gonna need to have his tires rotated.  Anyway, this does not really detract from the book as a whole.  It is actually a very valuble resource in terms of getting up to date with recent philosophical movements.  Blanshard does an excellent job at summarizing previous movements, to the extent that you could get by without reading any of the authors he mentions.  Blanshard's detailed synopses of these philosophies is almost as good as reading the original works themselves.  A book like this can save you the trouble of having to read many early to mid-twentieth century philosophers.<br />To summarize, the factual content of this book is nearly inarguable.  Blanshard's arguments are very convincing and very meticulous.  Overall, this work is utterly fascinating, well written, lucid, and clear.  But I will leave the reader with this one last piece of advice:  ONLY READ THE FIRST 200 PAGES.  That's all you need to get the gist of Blanshard's philosophy.  Once you get past the first 200 pages, Blanshard seems to do nothing other than give endless additional examples to uphold an argument that was already convincing enough.  The argument had been completely outlined by page 200, and meticulously argued to the point of catharsis.  Those who read further must be devastated adherents of Wittgenstein who can only watch with shock and horror as their life's studies go up in smoke.  I will not deduct a star for the run-on ending of this book simply because the first 200 pages are so spectacular and so potent that nothing could possibly detract from these initial arguments.  This book is easily worth the price of admission ten times over simply for these first 200 pages - I'm only trying to save you time by warning you about the redundncy of the latter part of this book.  So by all means go ahead and buy _Reason and Analysis_ - with my condolences to the adherents of Wittgenstein and Russell.o nothing other than give endless additional examples to uphold an argument that was already convincing enough.  The argument had been completely outlined by page 200, and meticulously argued to the point of catharsis.  Those who read further must be devastated adherents of Wittgenstein who can only watch with shock and horror as their life's studies go up in smoke.  I will not deduct a star for the run-on ending of this book simply because the first 200 pages are so spectacular and so potent that nothing could possibly detract from these initial arguments.  This book is easily worth the price of admission ten times over simply for these first 200 pages - I'm only trying to save you time by warning you about the redundncy of the latter part of this book.  So by all means go ahead and buy _Reason and Analysis_ - with my condolences to the adherents of Wittgenstein and Russell.	2003-04-05
US	50317959	R2MZ4EYBNNKMLE	0684837870	750992383	Islands in the Stream	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of his best	_Islands in the Stream_ is my favorite novel by Ernest Hemingway.  Like most of his works, the prose is relatively sparse but very readable and very entertaining.  It is also one of his most definitive novels in terms of revealing his true thoughts on the subject of life, death, and tragedy.  Some of this may not be obvious at the onset of the book; the most important events establishing the theme of this novel do not occur until later, culminating in a surprising and disturbing ending.  Of course I will not reveal this ending, so I will give you a brief rundown of the initial setting and cast:  The novel takes place on the Bimini Islands off the coast of Florida.  The main character is a hard-drinking, hard-partying, womanizing landscape painter, the ideal Hemingway character.  Also in typical Hemingway fashion, his seemingly idyllic and glamorous existence is marred by heartbreak and tragedy.  There is action and suspense when the protagonist embarks on his WW-II era, anti-nazi submarine hunting missions off the coast of Cuba.  But the ending is the definitive part of this work.  It has much to say about Hemingway's spiritual beliefs, which is rare because much of his mysterious prose is very reserved in this regard.  I highly recommend this book to both Hemingway fans and fans of literature in general.	2003-04-05
US	50317959	RHL0ZB9WXHWZV	0415254086	411173754	Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (Routledge Classics) (Volume 123)	Books	3	10	37	N	Y	Good for a laugh maybe	Wittgenstein's philosophy prides itself on its sober empiricism, unbiased objectivity, and logical respect for truth.  It vehemently rejects all forms of mysticism and pneumatic spirituality.  It is essentially the defining work of logical atomism, which states that we are all just collections of independently operating atoms or atomic facts, all of which exist apart from any necessity or mutual interrelatedness.  This philosophy has, needless to say, been proven untrue many times over.  As an intellectual movement, it was inevitable, and can be described as an essential step in the chronological progression of philosophy, but its day has come and gone.  Irrefutable proof of the factual inaccuracy of this philosophy can be found in Brand Blanshard's great book _Reason and Analysis_, which systematically dismantles Wittgenstein's concepts.<br />That said, this is a very thought provoking book, and may be useful as an intellectual exercise of sorts.  It may help you to more carefully scrutinize truths you had previously taken for granted, and view life with an overall more sharply critical eye.  I have nothing but the utmost respect for anyone who is truly able to comprehend what Wittgenstein is saying.  But I must recommend the philosophy of BRAND BLANSHARD to anyone who is a serious advocate of Wittgenstein, simply because you must understand what your critics are saying if you expect to mount a successful defense of your philosophy.  People who are in the know agree that Blanshard's attack on the philosophy of Wittgenstein was most devastating.  If the adherents of Wittgenstein's philosophy hope to be able to put Humpty-Dumpty back together again, I strongly suggest you open your mind to what people on the other side are saying, so that you can find a way to adapt to these new trends in western philosophical thought.	2003-03-27
US	50317959	R3IGRQCD0TMET2	0802135870	529219733	Storming Heaven: LSD and the American Dream	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Quality journalistic-type writing	_Storming Heaven_ is a non-ficticious account of the history of the spread of LSD in America and England during the 50's and 60's.  It gives detailed accounts of all of the major players in the early days of the synthesization and distribution of this drug.  It is not as thoughtful or philosophical as I hoped, and has little to say about the implications and nuances of the actual effects of the drug.  However, I came to accept this book for what it is, which is a matter-of-fact description of how this drug progressed from the university offices and laboratories to the streets of San Francisco.  This book has much to say about both the east-coast and west-coast acid scenes of the 50's and 60's.  In the east, you have Timothy Leary, Richard Alpert, and Alan Watts, and their whole gang of weirdos hanging out in an acid-soaked mansion in Millbrook NY.  It is very interesting to read about the(mis)adventures of these three men, all of whom (especially Alan Watts) are gifted and accomplished writers.  For those who are fans of their work, _Storming Heaven_ is a must-read if for no other reason than to get some idea of the formative influences of these writers.<br />The west coast scene, in contrast, was less intellectual and more of a free-for-all.  Jay Stevens describes the exploits of Ken Kesey, and the riders of his magic bus.  Of course any discussion of Ken Kesey will inevitably lead to a discussion of the Grateful Dead, and the handiwork of their \\"chemist\\" mr. Owlsley.  Stevens also covers the involvement of the Hell's Angels in this west coast movement.  All of this makes for very entertaining, albeit light, reading.	2003-03-27
US	50317959	R2LX7ZUHUJSVMH	0802130623	359469126	Acid Dreams: The Complete Social History of LSD: The CIA, the Sixties, and Beyond	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	An entertaining psychedelic history	This book is somewhat similar to _Storming Heaven_ by Jay Stevens in that it is an objective history of the psychedelic drug movement.  However, the emphasis of this book is focused more on the dark side of these new drugs, and the diabolic experiments conducted by the U.S. government with mind-altering drugs.  This discussion goes far beyond LSD, and extends to STP, Ditran, and the infamous BZ (AKA Jacob's Ladder), which the government used on soldiers to see if it might make them more effective fighters.  Of course the results of the BZ experiments were disastrous; looking back on it would almost be funny if it weren't so darn tragic.  Nonetheless, _Acid Dreams_ is a riveting and disturbing account of the CIA's misuse and misapplication of mind control drugs.  The authors provide many amusing anecdotes regarding the CIA's activities, such as slipping acid in each other's morning coffee just to see how they react, and so on and so forth.  Inevitably, some General or high-ranking official would have a bad trip, causing him to call for an end to such experiments.  Overall, this book is an interesting and entertaining read, and I recommend it to fans of the genre.	2003-03-27
US	50317959	R12DSG1VBKKY1Y	0062506528	227644659	True Hallucinations: Being an Account of the Author's Extraordinary Adventures in the Devil's Paradise	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	Very entertaining	This book is an adventurer's tale; a gripping account of the harrowing experiences of a group of hippie thrill-seekers.  This book is a real page-turner.  It reads like a good novel, and there is never a dull moment.  It is simply a blow-by-blow account of the author's drug-induced experiences in the Amazon jungle, a cross between an episode of National Geographic Explorer and an article out of High Times.  Some Terence Mckenna enthusiasts might be somewhat dissapointed, however, because _True Hallucinations_ is not a potent philosophical work like his other books.  It is not an attempt to root out the meaning of existence or discover the origins of the universe, but is instead just an entertaining romp through the jungle.  Also an update:  Dennis McKenna is alive and well and has been actively researching ethnopharmacology for 40 years.  His writings have been published in scientific journals and his latest ideas are available on youtube and other internet sites and blogs.  This is to correct and retract my earlier assertion that he somehow experienced bad side effects as a result of his research.	2003-03-26
US	50317959	RFU2U1S20AQ0Y	0140045295	451478495	Sometimes a Great Notion	Books	2	1	29	N	N	Dissapointing	I do not see the appeal of this book. To give you a quick breakdown, the plot is essentially this: an extended family of loggers lives an ordinary life in small-town Oregon.  That's IT.  The characters are ordinary people, and their lives are uneventful.  This book is an attempt to describe a simple way of life, and infuse some significance into it through vivid description and characterization.  A true literature afficionado knows that it is possible to do lot with very basic building blocks such as characterization; unfortunately this book does not succeed as well as one might hope.  This book relies heavily on basic descriptive elements because the plot is so sparse.  It tries to come across as an abtract, post-modern novel, which is a very tricky thing to do and still succeed.  Ken Kesey is trying to throw together a bunch of unexeptional, boring characters doing nothing more than going about their uneventful lives, expecting the book to be taken seriously as a &quot;minimalist&quot; or &quot;post modern&quot; work.  Do not try to read too far into this book; there is very little underlying philosophical significance to it.  This is a clear case of a minimalist book being mistaken for something with substance. As an alternative, I would suggest Kesey's _One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest_, which is by far his greatest work and is much more enjoyable than _Sometimes a Great Notion_.	2003-03-26
US	50317959	R18EB0P6PAKYS6	0394704681	236128154	The Wisdom of Insecurity	Books	5	95	107	N	Y	Short but good	This book is an excellent place to start reading philosophy.  _The Wisdom of Insecurity_ was obviously written for the layman, making it ideal for those who are new to this type of nonfiction.  In it, Alan Watts explains to us various ways of accepting and dealing with anxiety and insecurity in spiritual matters.  This technique of acceptance was clearly derived from the Hindu and Buddhist methods of establishing a calm and mellow outlook on life.  Like these great Eastern religions, Alan Watts does not try to tackle issues of theological truth head-on, but instead sidesteps the eternal questions.  This is not because he is incapable of dealing with more complex metaphysical issues - he does so in great depth in his other, longer works.  Neither is this method of sidestepping our sources of anxiety an evasion of rational, empirical truth.  This book is not a rigorous empiricist study, and never claimed to be.  It is instead a psychotheapeutic work verging on the anti-intellectual, but at the same time embracing meditation and contemplation.  Watts shows us ways to act out our love for wisdom and enlightenment by concentrating on the positive and accepting (but not dwelling on) disturbing questions which he considers to be unanswerable.  This is not an atheistic work nor is it a tale of despair.  This is a work infused with hope, while being mindful of the truth.  It succeeds in treading a sort of middle ground between the love of knowledge and anti-intellectualism.<br />The only problem with this book is its short length, although some might consider this an advantage. If you are looking for a more in-depth and rigorous study, try _Behold the Spirit_ or _Psychotherapy East and West_, also by Alan Watts.	2003-03-26
US	50317959	R1H3E976CIG7EA	0898866251	521795558	The High Sierra: Peaks, Passes, and Trails	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Great book for hard-core mountaineers	If you want to climb as many peaks as possible in the High Sierra, this is your book.  Secor describes an enormous number of different hiking/climbing opportunities.  He does not bother with the most obvious stuff, such as well-known trails that are easy to find, but instead tells you about places you might not have thought about.  There is information on cross-country routes (such as George Creek, Tuttle Creek, and the Enchanted Gorge), which is important because these rough and difficult routes are not discussed in trail guides, and are also overlooked in climbing guides.  This book might not be enough information for doing a technical climb on a big wall like Lone Pine Mountain or Tehipite Dome, but will tell you about the approach routes.  This is useful if you want to get a good look at these mountains from some neighboring ridge, but don't necessarily want to scale the actual cliffs.  It is better for wilderness trekking, off-trail hiking, and  mountaineering than it is for pure wall climbing.  It is therefore an ideal guide for people who want to cover a lot of ground and see some extremely remote and beautiful scenery rather than stay at one site and go up and down a wall.	2003-03-22
US	50317959	R11CJY6R23BDIF	0684836394	321270291	Science and the Modern World	Books	2	22	58	N	Y	unreadable	The ideas and philosophical concepts in this book are generally sensible, rational, and correct, but the writing style and execution leaves much to be desired.  In other words, this book is extremely difficult.  The impenetrable density of this prose is intolerable, especially considering it was written IN ENGLISH, in the TWENTIETH CENTURY!  If someone had handed me this book with a blank cover, I would have been convinced that it was originally written in old German during the time of Kant, and verbosely translated by some frustrated acedemic.  It is beyond me how any book writeen in English so recently could be so unreadable.<br />I might recommend this book to someone with a highly scientific, mathematical and empiricist mind-set.  After all, Whitehead is an accomplished mathematician, and his book has an aire of unbiased, empirical objectivity.  For a mathematician with a desire to cross over into the philosophy genre, this might be a good choice.  But for normal philosophy readers who come from a liberal arts/literary background, this book will probably come across as obfiscated and tortuous.	2003-03-22
US	50317959	R1CPIZSKRMOVJO	0140194738	859402931	Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson: All and Everything, First Series (Compass)	Books	4	17	23	N	Y	Warning!	_Beezlebub's Tales to His Grandson_ is the ultimate Russian novel.  This book might also be among the first true science fiction novels ever written.  Although most of this book is fairly readable, the process is made much more difficult by the fact that Gurdjieff is constantly inventing new words.  Not only that, these words have many different sub-definitions and connotations.  It is very important that you get out a pad of paper and write down your interpretations of Gurdjieff's new vocabulary as you go along.  Try to derive the meanings of these words through the context of the sentence, and write down the meanings as best you can.  Then remember to continually add nuances to your definitions as Gurdjieff introduces slightly different usages and connotations for his words.  This might sound troublesome, but deriving the definitions of the words from the context clues in the sentence is not that difficult.  Just take my advice and WRITE DOWN THE DEFINITIONS.  Otherwise, the new words and all their different connotations will prove to be too much to contain in your head all at once, and you will lose the handle on it.<br />That said, this book is quite fascinating, and very important philosophically.  It is unquestionably a great work, and is worth the trouble it takes to read it.  If it were not for the extreme length and difficulty, I would have given it five stars.	2003-03-22
US	50317959	RKR7Y88H2EFTC	0472090593	915777945	Fate of Man in the Modern World	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A scathing critique of all known political systems	No one is safe from Berdyaev's wrecking ball.  One minute, he is blasting communism and its repression of ideas and speech, and the next minute he is blasting the 1920's American system of unfettered capitalism.  Berdyaev eventually settles on a middle ground that I would describe as a moderate religious socialism.  He constantly works to defend the less fortunate, and reminds us that in America, totalitarian government is being replaced by totalitarian corporations.  People are described as repressed by the wealthy and the elite, and forced to work harder than they should have to.  This repression is similar to that encountered by people in communist states, only coming from a source other than the government.  On the other end of the spectrum, Berdyaev criticises the communist forms of repression with equal vigor.  It is refreshing to see a truly unbiased political theorist, who, instead of patriotically clinging to an established system  is willing to point out drawbacks in all systems.  By highlighting all of these drawbacks on both sides, Berdyaev prevents the political pendulum from swinging too far in either direction, and, guided by a religious ethical sensibility, steadies it somewhere in the middle.	2003-03-22
US	50317959	R1SKNH13OML7E8	0486217620	45470773	The World as Will and Representation, Vol. 2	Books	2	17	96	N	N	More unreadable 19th century German philosophy...	...As if there wasn't enough already.  If you have a huge surplus of time and mental energy, you will probably find Schopenhaur to be somewhat stimulating and thought-provoking.  However, the average American will find this to be useless psychobabble.  In reading this book, I often found myself pondering for an extensive period of time over each one of Schopenhaur's long-winded and complicated sentences.  Eventually I would paraphrase and reconstruct the sentence in my head to try to figure out what the author was trying to say, only to find out that the sentence was nothing more than a platitude - an obvious truism.  Schopenhaur forces the reader to go to an extrordinary amount of trouble digesting his opaque writing style, only to find the underlying concepts to be downright simplistic.  This book is difficult only because of poor execution and obfiscation of basic concepts.  If I am going to suffer this much to get through a book, I would prefer that I learn about some truly profound and life-changing theoretical concepts.  _The World as Will and Representation_ provides some valuble insights, but not enough to justify the effort to get through.  Like I said, if the difficulty arises from intrinsically complicated content, I am willing to put up with it.  But in this case the difficulty arises from a combination of poor writing and mediocre translation, and these are precisely the types of books you should avoid.	2003-03-11
US	50317959	R1OKJPNHJAZDM	1583940561	538874342	Tales of Old Earth	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Incredible	This collection of short stories is among the best ever written.  Deeply profound, thoughtful and literary tales, these stories remind me of Franz Kafka and Philip K. Dick at their best.  Swanwick utilizes science fiction in the exact way science fiction should be utilized: as a realistic and cautionary window into the future.  His favorite themes include: The dangers of unfettered capitalism and emergence of corporate slave-labor; science and medical technology run amok; the nature of death, the soul, and the afterlife; and time travel and the complications involved in altering the past.  He also seems to have an obsession with dinosaurs.  If these themes sound like a recipe for intellectual and thoughtful literature, you are correct.  Swanwick is able to convey fascinating philosophical concepts through his fiction, and does so with a clear and lucid style.  Unlike some modern authors, Michael Swanwick does not try to experiment with an overly abstract or poetic style, and does not play tricks with the reader in an attempt to create a \\"new\\" style of writing prose.  Swanwick sticks with a basic writing style, and invokes pioneering literary concepts through the actual content of his stories.  This is mystical-realist literature at its best - realistic style and execution, combined with far-out mystical concepts.	2003-03-11
US	50317959	R3QNGHGIG5DML1	0809121980	524140314	Origen: An Exhortation to Martyrdom, Prayer, and Selected Works (English and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	5	17	24	N	N	Awesome	Origen was one of the most carefully observant and meticulous interpreters of biblical scripture ever to have lived.  This book provides profound, fascinating, and deep insights into the inner subtleties of religious scripture.  Origen pays attention to the most minute details in scripture, and reminds us of the importance of these precise interpretations into the exact wording of the scripture.  The existence of a writer like Origen all but disproves some sceptic's theories that the bible was actually written much later than previously supposed.  If, for instance, it is true that the bible was not written until the 1400's or 1500's, the writings of Origen would also have to have been fabricated, and would therefore be some kind of fraud.  Origen, along with writers such as St. Thomas, St. Augustine, and Clement of Alexandria, are important because they give us valuble insights into the minds of the earliest Christian mystics, as well as shed light on the dynamics of the initial spread of Christianity.  But these early Christians are also important because they help us put our religion into proper historical perspective, and give us clear evidence as to when the bible was written and by whom.  I recommend this book to anyone interested in Christianity, and especially those interested in the early mystical Christian neo-prophets.  However, people with little or no familiarity with the New Testament might not like this, because Origen has a somewhat narrow focus devoted almost entirely to the interpretation of the precise wording of scripture.  But every serious Christian thinker should eventually take a look at this book.	2003-03-11
US	50317959	R1M6DGRKWID7V7	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	3	12	25	N	Y	Too verbose	I like the overall concept behind _The Hero With a Thousand Faces_, as I am a huge advocate of using a historical/anthropological/mythological approach to solving the mystery of Man's intelligent existence.  To its credit, this book was somewhat ahead of its time.  The main wave of mythical-anthpological books came either concurrently or later with authors such as Carl Jung, Claude Levi-Strauss, and Alan Watts.  Although the aforementioned authors were similar to Joseph Cambell and carried on in his tradition, they all proved to be superior to Campbell in most respects.  _The Hero..._ is a decent book within a fascinating genre, but it is marred by an overly-verbose writing style.  Campbell often uses flowery descriptive language that would be more appropriate in some kind of cheesy romance novel, and his sentences are festooned with unnecessary adjectives and adverbs to the point of absurdity.  It is as if he was suffering from delusions of grandeur when he was writing _The Hero..._, and attempted to infuse it with a melodramatic and emotional tone.  Sometimes he succeeds in utilizing a beautiful and ornately descriptive style, but for the most part the fancy descriptiveness detracts from the book.  This book would have been better if the style were more dry and sober, and less romantically emotive.  This is not a bad book, but you might be better served reading something by the other authors I mentioned above.	2003-03-11
US	50317959	R3UH4WQS8CIK8C	0802150667	948189332	How It Is	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Modern Epic Poetry	_How It Is_ is another challenging, far-out epic by Samuel Beckett.  Beckett pushes the far outer boundaries of what can be accomplished through literary fiction.  _How It Is_ brings us to the most remote frontiers of artistic consciousness, pioneering new ground into the furthest reaches of the human mind.  Join us for this epic voyage into the mind of a profoundly disturbed genius.	2003-03-10
US	50317959	R1ETDXWJO4MN37	0802150918	26587324	Three Novels: Molloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Artistic, Abstract, and Modern	I am subtracting one star only because of the weakness of the middle novel, _Malone Dies_.  The middle novel serves only to help set up the final novel, _The Unnamable_, which is one of the most intense epic jam journeys in the history of English ficticious literature.  _The Unnamable_ is so awesome, so intense, that I almost forget what the first two novels were about.  In some ways I don't even care.  All I care about is _The Unnamable_.  I vaguely remember that _Malloy_ was about some..guy riding around aimlessly on his bicycle; as for _Malone Dies_, I don't remember much at all, exept that it was lackluster.  But the third novel more than makes up for all of this.  It must be remembered that _The Unnamable_ is an abstract, far-out work of art.  It is not exactly a clearly written guide-to-life, or anything like that.  It is an epic poem of unbelievable profundity, an enjoyable and invigorating journey into the farthest depths of abstract madness.	2003-03-10
US	50317959	R39AO8898Q55AO	1573922803	464664082	Hegel's Science of Logic	Books	3	10	56	N	N	Two whole months down the drain!	It is with much regret and shame that I admit I spent two solid months of my life labouring to get through this book.  I obviously did it out of obstinate stubborness, triggered by a college professor who chided that there was &quot;no way I would be able to get through this book&quot;.  In the time you will have to spend to get through this, you could instead read countless works which are better written AND simultaneously more profound and beneficial to the reader.  If you have the time and energy to read something like Hegel's _Science of Logic_, please take my advice and read the complete works of Carl G. Jung instead.  I realize that Jung is of a vastly different genre and time period, but after reading modern psychoanalysis, it is hard for me to get exited about something like Hegel anymore.  Although there are some very fascinating aspects to this book, the reader does not stand to benefit in any realistic way from reading Hegel's _Science of Logic_.<br />The one thing I did like about this book is Hegel's discussion on the true nature of calculus and other advanced mathematics.  Hegel reminds us that most types of calculus, and simple algebra for that matter, are limited in that they require the mathematician to have final answers before he can even proceed, and the mathematical process is usually just an exercise in seeing how one arrives at these final answers.  In other words, mathematics is more about tracing the path connecting beginning and end points in an equation, after this end point is already known, than it is about conjuring up answers from nothing.  Another interesting aspect of this book is its innovative contributions to the world of chemistry and the origins of the modern periodic table of the elements.  Hegel sheds light on the earliest days of modern chemistry, reminding us of the revolutionary processes that led up to our understanding of chemical elements and compounds.  We are reminded that everything stems from and starts with the compound, and the existence of the pure elements is inferred later by analysing phenomenon such as &quot;mixing ratios&quot; and saturation/absorbtion capacities.  Hegel explains these founding pillars of chemical wisdom which many modern scientists take for granted.  It is admittedly interesting to read about the processes that led to the discovery of the now-ubiquitous periodic table.mpound, and the existence of the pure elements is inferred later by analysing phenomenon such as &quot;mixing ratios&quot; and saturation/absorbtion capacities.  Hegel explains these founding pillars of chemical wisdom which many modern scientists take for granted.  It is admittedly interesting to read about the processes that led to the discovery of the now-ubiquitous periodic table.	2003-03-10
US	50317959	R2NQERG92FAVWO	0802134262	393344734	Nohow On: Company, Ill Seen Ill Said, Worstward Ho: Three Novels	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Unbelievable	These three novels represent Samuel Beckett's greatest accomplishment.  What are they about you might ask?  Let's just say that they're about everything and nothing.  They are profound commentaries on the universal existential crises plaguing all of mankind, and an utterly fascinating reduction of what it means to be a human. Be forewarned: these novels are extremely modern, abstract works of art, and for many will be very difficult reading.  The final installment, _Worstword Ho_  is officially the greatest work of fiction, page for page, that I have ever read.  It is not for the faint of heart or weak of stomach.  These novels are not to be taken lightly and it should be noted that Samuel Beckett put the &quot;high&quot; in highway.  This is abstract literary thought at its far-seeing outer limit.	2003-03-10
US	50317959	R1HI9476QZE5GH	0198245971	806887536	Phenomenology of Spirit	Books	3	12	28	N	N	Do not devote your academic career to this!	Hegel's _Phenomenology of Spirit_ is a very thought-provoking and intellectualy stimulating work.  However, it is also very mentally taxing, and is probably not worth the time and effort required to get through.  Nor is this an absolutely essential work with regards to historical importance; it should instead be demoted to the status of &quot;historical curiosity&quot;.  I recommend this book only to masochistic individuals who like to read books in order to prove their intelligence, or who seek out challenges just because they are challenging.  It is unlikely you will actually benefit from a mental-health standpoint by reading this work.  This is because Hegel seems to be playing mind games, obfiscating his sentences and forcing the reader to re-translate or paraphrase what has been said into something clearer and more intelligable.  In the course of reading this book, I would often come across long, complicated, and infuriating sentences, and I would have to re-process and re-write the sentence in my head before I could make sense out of what Hegel was trying to say.  After doing this, I would say to myself, &quot;why didn't Hegel just write the sentence in the same way that I just paraphrased the sentence?&quot;<br />In conclusion, I firmly believe this book could have been written much more clearly without taking anything away from the profundity of the concepts contained therein.  It quite simply should not have been so difficult to read.  There is nothing about Hegel's ideas that are so intrinsically complicated to justify his virtually unreadable style.  If you want to read a truly profound, complicated, and fascinating philosophical book from the same time period,  I highly recommend _Concluding Unscientific Postscript_ by Soren Kierkegaard as an alternative.  You will find that Kierkegaard is an exponentially better writer than Hegel, and is capable of conveying much more information to the reader with much less aggravation.	2003-03-10
US	50317959	R26UHZ4Z4M7GZ3	0060900075	554528426	The Doors of Perception and Heaven and Hell	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	A Groundbreaking Work	The only reason I gave this book only 4 stars instead of five is that the second essay, _Heaven and Hell_, struck me as rather weak.  Taken by itself, _Doors of Perception_ is definitely a 5 star work.  This book is a watershed moment in the psychedelic literature movement.  It is beautifully written, with a clear and understandable style.  Huxley has a particular knack for knowing when he has come up against the unknowable, and is able to recognize the unknowable for what it really is.  He sort of maps out the edges of the unknowable, highlighting what is within the grasp of our knowledge, while defining a clear boundary demarcating the realms of knowledge that can only become known in another life.  This, of course, was the book that inspired the great philosopher Terrance McKenna, and after reading it, you might also become inspired to try to become the next great philosopher.  _Doors of Perception_ is notable in that it triggers a desire for knowledge rather than simply expounding data.  This is definitely a good thing, and the reader can't help but be infected with a love for the astonishment and wonder that philosophy can provide.	2003-02-28
US	50317959	RRZKPMASR2A4N	0060901918	745908638	The Perennial Philosophy	Books	5	123	138	N	Y	Not for atheists	_The Perrenial Philosophy_ is a masterpiece of English literature - one of the most important books of the twentieth century written in our language.  It is the ultimate introduction to all forms of Eastern philosophical and religious thought.  But it is more than just an introduction; it is a comprehensive and exhausting crash course in Eastern religion.  This book is an indispensible guide to improving the quality of life simply through a change in attitude.  There is an unreal amount of information crammed into this volume.  It is in fact a &quot;bible&quot; of sorts.  If our society were to be annihilated in some sort of catastrophe, and only one book were to survive for the remaining people to discover, this book would probably be the most advantageous one they could find.  It may not be the most profound book ever written, but it is extremely valuble because of the amount and variety of historical information conveyed.  It provides wisdom from the viewpoints of dozens of important philosophers and religious thinkers, and reads like some kind of greatest-hits albulm.  There are other works that may be more modern and far-reaching, and others that may be more unique and individualistic.  But the _Perrenial Philosophy_ accomplishes exactly what it set out to do, which is catalogue and explain profound quotes from a wide variety of great thinkers.  Some readers might have preferred that Huxley interject more of his own ideas, but if you want to benefit from the wisdom of dozens of great authors without having to buy each one of their books (if they're even available), then I highly recommend that you buy this book.	2003-02-28
US	50317959	R1ISVO2RFZSAWY	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	9	22	N	N	Time to start reading philosophy	Let's face it.  You can only accomplish so much within the fiction format.  If Thomas Pychon actually had a rational and potentially useful philosophy to expound, he should have done so with clearly written non-fiction prose.  As it is, all we have is a chopped-up short-story collection.  There's really nothing too difficult about following the plots; most of these subplots seem to be functioning completely independently of one another and the reader should try to just digest the segments as if they were short stories.  Don't get bogged down or confused because you don't have a firm grasp on who the characters are or what they're doing.  It does not really matter, because Pynchon has obviously chosen to forego the idea of characterization in this novel.  However, that is not always a bad thing.  Samuel Beckett has proven that characterization is not essential to a novel.  Pynchon also succeeds, at times.<br />The main bright spots in this book are the philosophical diatribes which are the most important parts of the novel, but are almost entirely disconnected with all the other occurances in the novel.  One such stand-alone segment is the part on &quot;Byron the Bulb&quot;.  I really liked that section, and a few others like it.  My only problem with this book is that the whole thing should have been like the Byron the Bulb segment.  Many parts of the book seem almost pointless compared to other, more profound parts.  Often there is a very interesting and profound segment shoehorned in amongst a bunch of filler.  Why not take out the filler and write an entire book of profound social commentaries?  If Pynchon had done this, it may have just ended up being a very good philosophical book.<br />The type of person who wants to read _Gravity's Rainbow_ obviously is looking for a challenge, and wants to &quot;learn something&quot;.  Trouble is, this book is not that challenging and is only a moderately enriching learning experience.  This book is not quite the feather in the cap people think it is.  If you want a real challenge read _Beezlebub's Tales to his Grandson_ by Gurdjieff, or _The World as Will and Representation_ by Shopenhauer.  Go ahead and try it - I dare you. Then we'll see what you're really made of.  _Gravity's Rainbow_ is light beach-reading fluff compared to those books.n the cap people think it is.  If you want a real challenge read _Beezlebub's Tales to his Grandson_ by Gurdjieff, or _The World as Will and Representation_ by Shopenhauer.  Go ahead and try it - I dare you. Then we'll see what you're really made of.  _Gravity's Rainbow_ is light beach-reading fluff compared to those books.	2003-02-27
US	50317959	REY564HVYJFQ	0805210555	920707464	Franz Kafka: The Complete Stories	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Kafka's Best Works	_The Complete Stories_ by Kafka rank at the top of my list of the best short-story collections ever.  The works contained in this volume represent Kafka's most important, innovative, and groundbreaking works.  Collectively, this volume is exponentially better than any one of Kafka's fine novels.  This is the real Kafka, and the reader will quickly realize that 70-80% of Kafka's most important works and ideas are contained in this volume.	2003-02-27
US	50317959	R3179MA5UCGW33	0679752986	865862753	A Maze of Death	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Fascinating	_Maze of Death_ is among my very favorite Philip K. Dick novels.  Entertaining, surprising, disturbing, and often profound in a truly literary sense, this book is perfect for garden variety sci-fi junkies as well as more refined literary snobs.  Like all of Dick's works, _Maze of Death_ is simultaneously futuristic and down-to-earth in a realistic, believable sense.  I can't tell you much more without giving away all the surprises, but suffice it to say that this is a must-read classic of American literature.	2003-02-21
US	50317959	R2W8DY75VNTO9Z	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A Timeless Classic	_Lord of Light_ by Roger Zelazny is one of those great sci-fi books where the author compresses his vision into one stand-alone work rather than spread his tale out over a number of serialized books in order to make more money.  The result is a super-potent, literary sci-fi novel with all the makings of a great American classic.  This book is clearly influenced by the 1960's eastern philosophical/psychedelic movement and it has a legitimate, scholarly view of Hindu religious philosophy.  It is complex, thought-provoking, and profound, and unlike most sci-fi, it truly challenges the reader intellectually.  Any fan of sci-fi absolutely MUST read this book, and I also highly recommend it to people who are not even fans of the genre.  _Lord of Light_ is one of those rare books that will cross the boundries of genre and eventually be considered among the timeless classics of American literature.	2003-02-21
US	50317959	R1UWG2K8HAEQTP	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Spectacular	If published by itself, the first half of the Amber chronicles would unquestionably one of the greatest works of fiction ever written.  The second half is also quite good and definitely worth reading, but the two halves are both stand-alone novels and could and possibly should be published separately.  I do not envy the people who had to read the Amber series one novel at a time, waiting for each successive volume to come out.  Each individual book is so short that it seems ridiculous that they didn't just publish the work in two volumes instead of ten.  But it doesn't matter because now we can read it all at once, thankfully.  The story is so riveting, so suspenseful, it would have been agonizing to wait for the next book to come out.<br /><br />This story is too complex to even begin to try to summarize the plot.  You'll just have to trust me that the Book of Amber is one of the greatest fantasy novels ever.  I find it absurd that many people are still obsessed with Tolkien and his Lord of the Rings series, and that LOTR is still the standard by which all fantasy is judged.  I for one do not care for the simplistic and childish works of Tolkien, and clearly the Book of Amber is exponentially better than anything by Tolkien.  I get worried when people describe a book as \\"good, but not quite as good as Tolkien\\".  That would be my first indication that such a book is not worth reading.  Roger Zelazny's Amber is in a whole 'nother universe compared to most other fantasy, and is not even comparable to Tolkien.  It may be obvious that I am not exacty a die hard fan of the fantasy genre; I read Amber mostly as a diversion from the more difficult reading I had previously been concentrating on, and I was stunned by how good it was.  It speaks well for this book that someone who is not even a fantasy fanatic could be so moved by Zelazy's work.	2003-02-21
US	50317959	R26WVDOK4ELITT	0375719296	661410034	Dr. Bloodmoney	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Philip K. Dick's best novel	Granted, I have only read 7 Philip K. Dick novels, but out of those 7 this one stands out as the best.  This novel contains fascinating insights into the concepts of solipsism, megalomania, and paranoia (the self is everything).  Dr. Bloodmoney percieves himself to be at the center of the universe, the author of all things, the entire world being a mere projection of his personal subjectivity.  Using his power, he creates a nuclear war.  So is he crazy, or is he really somehow behind this catastrophe?  This is just one of the many interesting subplots we are presented with in this story.  There are a number of other characters in this book whose situations are also very compelling, and Philip K. Dick weaves their lives together with the skill of a master storyteller.  Dick has an amazing ability to seamlessly meld the tragic and the hilarious, and the end result is one of the greatest sci-fi novels ever written.	2003-02-21
US	50317959	RQV88QJ8BEZ6Q	0875484379	435645780	Theodicy: Essays on the Goodness of God, the Freedom of Man, and the Origin of Evil	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Light years ahead of its time	_Theodicy_ by Leibniz is amazingly relevant and readable considering how long ago it was written.  This book is far better than many other works of philosophy which came much later.  Very few authors have been able to tackle the problem of the relationship between the existence of evil and the existence of God with as much skill and clarity as Leibniz.  The issues discussed in this book are still very relevant today, and the questions concerning evil and the existence of God still have not been answered.  That is what makes this work so timeless; if I had been told that it was written yesterday I would have believed it, so relevant are the questions and so readable is the style.  This is a must-read for even the most modern and scientifically-minded philosophers.  Leibniz adresses questions that are completely independent of science, and can never be answered through science alone.  The only way to solve the ancient problem of evil is to continue to think about it in the same way as Leibniz, even though we may never find a solid answer.	2003-02-21
US	50317959	R2EDYESH3WV45N	0679723005	83678771	The Book: On the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are	Books	5	25	27	N	Y	Excellent	_The Book: on the Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are_ is the quintessential 60's counter-culture book.  It is a great place to start reading philosophy if you are an amateur, and used to reading only fiction.  It is also a refreshing change of pace for the most grizzled veterans of old-school German philosophy.  This is the kind of book that can renew your faith in the possibility of communicating profound ideas without having to use a dense and impenetrable style of prose.  Granted, it is not exactly a monumental literary achievement, but this is only because it is so short.  But page for page, it is just as potent and profound as any other book ever written.  Because of its slim profile, it is not a very intimidating book, so I encourage readers of all skill levels to give this one a try.<br />If you're like me this book will only make you want to read more Alan Watts.  I encourage you to also read: _Behold the Spirit_, _Psychotherapy East and West_, _The Two Hands of God_, and _Myth and Ritual in Christianity_, all by Alan Watts.  This book is only the tip of the iceberg.  Buy this book, realize how great an author Alan Watts is, and then get into the real meat of his works.  Even if some of these are out of print, someway, somehow you must try to find them, and discover one of the greatest American writers ever to have lived.	2003-02-19
US	50317959	R2OK91IHZYONGJ	0517543052	175866163	Be Here Now	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Unbelievable	One of the greatest books to come out of America, EVER.  This is not just a counter-culture hippie book; it is a legitimate work of profoundly life-improving philosophy.  There are many tedious works of philosophy out there that seem to ask questions just for the sake of asking questions, and leave you with the feeling that you've only been playing fruitless mind-games.  _Be Here Now_ is not like that at all.  It addresses issues that really are important to us humans, and gives advice that can truly help you to improve your quality of life.  ... _Be Here Now_, on the other hand, shows you time-honored eastern philosophical methods which will solve your illusory problems - not just cover them up.  It also has a good moral theme to it, showing you ways to be happy without having to do so at other people's expense.	2003-02-19
US	50317959	REKAGFN28I7MN	0691020493	968788895	Stages on Life's Way : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 11	Books	5	28	38	N	N	One of the greatest books ever written	For a long time, _Stages on Life's Way_ sat atop the list of my favorite books of all time.  This book is a gut-wrenching account of Kierkegaard's tragic problems with women, and is a vivid portrait of a man who is snake-bit in his love life.  I can especially relate to this book, being that I am not married, most likely never will be married, and am singlemindedly obsessed with sitting around reading philosophers like Kierkegaard and Jung.  I can honestly attest that I broke up with the love of my life, with no regrets, just because she was preventing me from reading as much Kierkegaard as I would have liked.  And this is eerily similar to Kierkegaard's own experience in this book.<br />Although this book still qualifies as non-fiction philosophy, it often has an autobiographical, and sometimes outright ficticious feel to it.  This ultimately enhances the readability of the book, because it often refers to situations inspired by the author's own experiences; these real-life situations then help to exemplify and clarify Kierkegaard's key concepts.  It is frustrating to read authors who expound one abstract theory after another and never bother to set-up a realistic situation in which these human-behavioral concepts might come into play.  Kierkegaard is almost never guilty of doing this.  His style is always firmly grounded in reality, and is thereby more readily translatable than most other authors from the same time period.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone out there, especially someone who, like myself, has found himself torn between a philosophy-centered avocation and a love life which always seems to be trying to tear us away from our real passions and duties.  If I could give it 6 stars I would. Unconditionally recommended.	2003-02-17
US	50317959	R1PK1GW8BA65BQ	0691020663	997701888	For Self-Examination/Judge for Yourselves : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 21	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Potent yet readable	This book, page for page, may be Kierkegaard's best ever.  This is a rather slim volume, but is packed with Kierkegaard's most profound and life-changing philosophy.  Compared to his other works (almost all of which I highly, HIGHLY recommend) this book comes across as one of the most potent and dense.  Therefore, I would recommend this one first and foremost to a reader who is pressed for time and is intimidated by the sheer length of Kierkegaard's other works.  If you have not devoted every minute of your spare time to reading every page of every book ever written by Kierkegaard, my first question, of course, is WHY NOT?!?!? What are you thinking???  Get with the program!!!  I am willing to forgive you, however, if you could just find time in your busy schedule to read this one slim pamphlet.  It is the \\"Reader's Digest\\" condensed Kierkegaard for realistic 50-hour-a-week men, and it could radically change your life for the better.  Profound, uplifting, loving, hopeful, and positive, I recommend this book to all readers.	2003-02-17
US	50317959	R2QPQ3FSECYVOC	0691059160	623185782	Works of Love : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 16	Books	5	112	121	N	N	One of his best works	_Works of Love_ by Kierkegaard is the most uplifting, encouraging, and hope-restoring book I have ever read.  Kierkegaard's statement that \\"the greatest act of love anyone can ever achieve is to mourn for someone who is dead\\"  is a statement I have used to guide myself through innumerable existential crises and has given me hope in my darkest hours.  The wisdom contained in this book is an essential tool in dealing with the premature and untimely death of a loved one, and restoring your hope and faith in God even in the face of tragedy.  Kierkegaard's sense of empathy and morality is unsurpassed by any other philosopher living or dead, and I will also go so far as to call him a saint.<br />This book is also extremely well-written, well-translated, and readable.  _Works of Love_ is living proof of the theory that inherently complicated and profound subject matter does not necessarily have to be extremely difficult to read.  Kierkegaard's use of anecdotal situations and clear real-life examples to illustrate his theories make the book more readily understandable, and his writing style naturally lends itself to clear and accurate translation.  Unlike many German philosophers of the same time period, Kierkegaard (from Denmark) does not lapse into highly personal, abstract, and inaccessable concepts, but instead focuses on more realistic and timeless problems that have plagued humanity since the dawn of sentience.  While authors like Hegel and Schopenhauer are intellectually stimulating and mildly interesting, reading their works does not exactly make you happier, more hopeful, and more empathetically caring.  You are often left with nothing but pie-in-the-sky theories regarding esoteric philosophical questions that are only marginally relevant to the everyday realities we experience.  Kierkegaard, on the other hand,  can greatly improve the quality of your life, and help you achieve a positive and non-hateful outlook.<br />Also keep in mind that this is easily Kierkegaard's most personal book, revealing the inner nature of his own spiritual beliefs.  Unlike an author like Heidegger, who will ramble for 400 pages and never even bother to tell you if he believes in God or not, Kierkegaard is up front and honest with the reader, speaking directly to us.  A true expert on Kierkegaard knows that he often wrote under pseudonyms, and playfully stepped into another character or alter-ego, lending an almost ficticious aspect to some of his philosophical works.  In reading some of these pseudonymous books, a careful reader will observe that Kierkegaard often contradicts his real persona in subtle ways.  It is easy to overlook his purposeful self-contradictions and alter-ego characterizations unless you compare these works with his more personal and truthful works, _Works of Love_ being the prime example.<br />Should you buy this book? YES!!  I unconditionally recommend this book to anyone, anywhere.  It is the perfect introduction to Kierkegaard; the one you should read first.  It is also a recapitulation and summary of all of his most important concepts, so it could also be read last.  But at some point you must read this book.  The only type of person who would not appreciate this book is someone who has thoroughly convinced himself of the hopelessness, meaninglessness, and absurdity of existence; someone who has become completely disillusioned with God in response to tragedy, and believes knowledge can only beget sorrow.  Most people with this kind of negative outlook are often anti-intellectuals anyway, and seldom read legitimate philosophical books anymore.  But even if you are disillusioned with God and unable to comprehend tragedy, you still might want to read this book because it may provide the only way out of your depressing predicament.  _Works of Love_ is a shining beacon of hope in an often violent, tragic, and chaotic universe, and is one of the few books ever written that is sophisticated and credible enough to pull even themost die-hard sceptic out of the despair of hopelessness.e most die-hard sceptic out of the despair of hopelessness.	2003-02-17
US	50317959	R2IKZSMYIFGM7Y	0671867806	794137195	Being and Nothingness	Books	5	88	115	N	N	I'm being generous	This is, for most people, an unwieldy, incomprehensible, impenetrable, and virtually unreadable book.  That said, it also contains one of the most revolutionary and incontestable phenomenolgical theories ever devised, and it can be yours in exchange for a \\"mere\\" two months of your life.  Sound like a good deal? Well, it's not. Unfortunately there was nobody around to tell me \\"don't jump!\\" as I was about to plunge headlong into this book, with obsessive-compulsive and monomaniacal desire to get through it.  Apparently, I wanted to prove something to myself and others, by putting a tattered and heavily underlined copy of _Being and Nothingness_ back on my bookshelf, and being able to say \\"I read that\\".  These types of motivations may be the only force in the known universe powerful enough to propel a man through a book such as this.  And it's a good thing I read it when I was still young enough, stubborn enough, and crazy enough to do so.<br />.........This brings me back to my praise of this book, and its lofty, creative theories.  Yes, it has its problems in the area of readability, and this is particularly inexcusable because it was written in the second half of the twentieth century.  However, we must not forget that it was Sartre who first coined the theory \\"being unto other\\" as an explanation for the phenomenon of human temporal experience.  This, as it turned out, was an enhancement and fortification of Heidegger's phenomenological theory of \\"being-unto-death\\", and was able to incorporate this older and influential theory into a new and more comprehensive theory of the self.  Keep in mind that Sartre does not necessarily contradict Heidegger's theories, but instead corrects their narrow, one-dimensional nature by adding to and expanding upon them.  The end result is a comprehensive and all-encompassing theory of being, which is a sort of fusion between the theory of being-unto-death and being-unto-other.  The last 200-300 pages of this book are particularly brilliant in explaining this flexible, agile theory, accounting for every possible type of interaction between human feelings of isolation/self-conscious otherness and history/death.  Sartre realizes that it is futile to try to narrow down an all-encompassing theory of existence into a few powerful determining concepts.  Instead, Sartre presents us with a system that is able to account for many more secondary, but important, factors in the formulation of existential being.<br /><br />Strange as it may sound, I would recommend that a reader who is pressed for time, but still curious about this philosophy, to start reading this book about 500 pages in.  Many will vehemently disagree,  but a skilled veteran of reading philosophy should be able to start this book about 2/3 of the way in and still pick up the vast majority of important concepts.  You may ask, how can I justify buying a book when only 1/3 of it is worth reading?  Well you'll just have to trust me on this one.  Start reading about 500 pages in, save yourself about 6 weeks worth of aggravation, get all of the important concepts on the relationship between death and the self, and thank me later.  Overbloated as it may be, the last 1/3 of this book alone is easily worth the price of admission.  So go ahead and try it, if you dare!  A final note: I edited this review as of November 2010 to give it 5 stars instead of 4, becuase in the fullness of time I have come to appreciate the importance of this work even more.  It has been infinitely useful in my research and writings as a theologian.liant in explaining this flexible, agile theory, accounting for every possible type of interaction between human feelings of isolation/self-conscious otherness and history/death.  Sartre realizes that it is futile to try to narrow down an all-encompassing theory of existence into a few powerful determining concepts.  Instead, Sartre presents us with a system that is able to account for many more secondary, but important, factors in the formulation of existential being.                 Strange as it may sound, I would recommend that a reader who is pressed for time, but still curious about this philosophy, to start reading this book about 500 pages in.   Many will vehemently disagree,  but a skilled veteran of reading philosophy should be able to start this book about 2/3 of the way in and still pick up the vast majority of important concepts.  You may ask, how can I justify buying a book when only 1/3 of it is worth reading?  Well you'll just have to trust me on this one.  Start reading about 500 pages in, save yourself about 6 weeks worth of aggravation, get all of the important concepts on the relationship between death and the self, and thank me later.  Overbloated as it may be, the last 1/3 of this book alone is easily worth the price of admission.  So go ahead and try it, if you dare!  A final note: I edited this review as of November 2010 to give it 5 stars instead of 4, becuase in the fullness of time I have come to appreciate the importance of this work even more.  It has been infinitely useful in my research and writings as a theologian.	2003-02-16
US	50317959	R3CIGIWWGFQAXY	0826405851	641717948	Truth and Method (Bloomsbury Revelations)	Books	5	17	51	N	N	Bold and Daring Christian-Judaic Thought	Gadamer's _Truth and Method_ is both very profound and very readable; it is a vast improvement over other more widely-read philosophical texts from the same region and time period (such as Heidegger's _Being and Time_ and Husserl's _Crisis of the European Sciences_).  Unlike the aforementioned philosophers, Gadamer is actually willing to stick his neck out and reveal to us the true nature of his own personal spiritual beliefs.  Believe it or not, Gadamer has the audacity to tell us that we \\"must take the Old Testament literally\\" (!) That's right, folks.  Adam and Eve, Noah's Ark, Moses, Abraham-Isaac-Jacob-Joseph-ect.  We have to take all of that literally.  Now I've been to north-Georgia, backcountry, hillbilly Baptist churches where they didn't believe in that stuff anymore.  And that is precisely what makes Gadamer's philosophy so revolutionary.  The age of reason has quite literally come full circle.  People were completely caught off guard by this shocking new assertion, that we must once again turn to the literal interpretation of the Old Testament in order to explain the dawn of temporal conciousness in man.<br />  It seems as though modern phenomenolgy has uncovered far more new questions than it has answers.  Hegel was one of the first to attempt an in-depth systemization on how and why the \\"spirit enters into time\\".  Heidegger was one of the first with a specific answer, stating that the phenomenon of spirit is attributable to a type of \\"care\\" and \\"being-unto-death\\".  Sarte countered that this phenomenology is in fact a result of \\"being-unto-other\\".  But if we believe Gadamer's historical theory, we may have a concrete solution to all of these problems.  Rather than be stuck with a narrow and one-dimensional theory of the phenomenon of soul (which could easily be diluted with other contingencies and unforeseen contributing factors) Gadamer brings us back to a very viable, believable, and comprehesive system of the historical birth of the spirit.  Granted, it is impossible to empirically prove the historical accuracy of the Old Testament, but Gadamer points out this historic text's uncanny ability to account for and eliminate every possible obstacle to the coming-into-being of spirit.  Once we understand Gadamer's system, we realize that not only is the Old Testament a sensible, fitting, and believable way to account for our existence, it is actually one of the most solid and inarguable existential theories out there.  Yes, it does seem shocking and surprising at first, but the more you think about it, the more believable you will find the Old Testament to be.  Apparently, the modern philosopher must go down every dead-end, back-alley historical theory known to man before he can finally come to terms with the wisdom of the ancients.<br />  So the only question remaining is, should you buy this book?  If you are open minded enough to at least consider the possibility of the historical theory described above, then you will probably find this book to be interesting and intellectually stimulating.  If, on the other hand, you are horrified and appauled by what I just said, maybe you should instead ask your college professor for his latest recommendation., it is impossible to empirically prove the historical accuracy of the Old Testament, but Gadamer points out this historic text's uncanny ability to account for and eliminate every possible obstacle to the coming-into-being of spirit.  Once we understand Gadamer's system, we realize that not only is the Old Testament a sensible, fitting, and believable way to account for our existence, it is actually one of the most solid and inarguable existential theories out there.  Yes, it does seem shocking and surprising at first, but the more you think about it, the more believable you will find the Old Testament to be.  Apparently, the modern philosopher must go down every dead-end, back-alley historical theory known to man before he can finally come to terms with the wisdom of the ancients.<BR>   So the only question remaining is, should you buy this book?  If you are open minded enough to at least consider the possibility of the historical theory described above, then you will probably find this book to be interesting and intellectually stimulating.  If, on the other hand, you are horrified and appauled by what I just said, maybe you should instead ask your college professor for his latest recommendation.	2003-02-16
US	50317959	R2C01FD5AFKEH6	0791426785	77260273	Being and Time: A Translation of Sein und Zeit (SUNY series in Contemporary Continental Philosophy) (Suny Series in Chinese Philosophy & Culture)	Books	5	10	45	N	N	Infinitely Important!!!!	Some advocates of this book would probably argue that the subject matter and the concepts discussed are by their  nature very difficult, and it would have been impossible for Heidegger to convey these concepts any more clearly than he did.  This is likely true.  Heidegger's concepts of ontology through being-towards-death are nothing short of revolutionary.  My original review of this book was critical because I found it too difficult, but upon rereading it in 2004-2005 I have come to appreciate its value.  It, along with Systematic Theology by Paul Tillich, is one of the most important works of the 20th century. This book has been of infinite use in my research and writing as a theologian. Here are some additional suggestions:<br />1. The psychoanalytic school, especially Freud and Jung, gets a lot closer to explaining the concept of being, as well as other concepts central to man's existence, than does Heidegger's phenomenology.<br />2.  Kierkegaard, who came decades before Heidegger, is still ten times the writer Heidegger ever was.  I suggest reading literally every book by Kierkegaard before reading the historical curiosity known as _Being and Time_.<br />3.  _Theodicy_ by Leibnitz, another work which came much earlier but is also much better.  At least Leibnitz clearly conveys his personal belief system, and actually argues central philosophical concepts like good and evil and the existence of God.<br />  And this brings me to my conclusion.  My main problem with _Being and Time_ is basically this: How can an author write a 400 page philosophical book, which takes nearly a month to read, and not even discuss issues like good vs. evil and the existence vs. non-existence of God?  Why is it that after devoting a month to this man's work, I still don't even know what Heidegger's own spiritual beliefs are?  This is the most impersonal book I have ever read.  There is no trace of authorial intention or indentity, no soul to this work.  It provides no real-world anecdotal examples with which to clarify any of its concepts.  Heidegger never bothers to describe a real life situation in which his concepts come into play. This book is so completely disconnected from reality, the reader has to wonder if Heidegger ever left his house.  At least in psychoanalysis, authors like Jung will actually provide real-life psychological case studies to back up their sweeping generalizations about human behaviour.  With Heidegger, all we get is the sweeping generalizations and no case studies to demonstrate how people might exhibit the behaviours he attributes to humanity.  Maybe Heidegger did have a good personality, but we'll never know based on this work.  Once again: re-editing this review in 2010, I retract some of the earlier criticisms, which I leave as is so the reader can understand the difficulties encountered by a teenager reading this book.  This book is for grownups only.  As a teenager I was in position to make an inital attempt on this book, but I was in no position to write a properly vetted review from an authoritative source.  This is a 5 star book and the second most important work of the 20th century behind only Tillich's Systematic theology.  Please do not acknowledge any reviews wirtten by teenagers on the works of Sartre, Heidegger, or Hegel.with which to clarify any of its concepts.  Heidegger never bothers to describe a real life situation in which his concepts come into play. This book is so completely disconnected from reality, the reader has to wonder if Heidegger ever left his house.  At least in psychoanalysis, authors like Jung will actually provide real-life psychological case studies to back up their sweeping generalizations about human behaviour.  With Heidegger, all we get is the sweeping generalizations and no case studies to demonstrate how people might exhibit the behaviours he attributes to humanity.  Maybe Heidegger did have a good personality, but we'll never know based on this work.                                                                                                                             Once again: re-editing this review in 2010, I retract some of the earlier criticisms, which I leave as is so the reader can understand the difficulties encountered by a teenager reading this book.  This book is for grownups only.  As a teenager I was in position to make an inital attempt on this book, but I was in no position to write a properly vetted review from an authoritative source.  This is a 5 star book and the second most important work of the 20th century behind only Tillich's Systematic theology.  Please do not acknowledge any reviews wirtten by teenagers on the works of Sartre, Heidegger, or Hegel.	2003-02-13
US	50317959	R36V3A20D9QUXH	0679745351	794458901	Among the Thugs	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Awesome	This is the definitive book on hooligans.  The writing is intelligent, and Bill Buford often breaks down the society he's studying with an amusing and deprecating wit.  On the back of the book it says that _Among the Thugs_ is never condescending, which is the diametric opposite of the truth.  The thing that makes this book amusing is its ability to portray the sheer insanity of hooliganism as the circus freak show that it is.  Other writers treat this subject with a been-there-done-that sort of nonchalance. Bill Buford, on the other hand, sees the phenomenon through the lens of a mild mannered American who is justifiably shocked and horrified by what he is witnessing.  For the American reader, this is the ideal standpoint because it is important to emphasize just how utterly ridiculous, alien, and unfathomable hooligan behaviour is to a civiized American.  I highly recommend this book as a fast, entertaining, action- packed, and often hilarious read.	2003-02-13
US	50317959	R3NUY7JW2TCE19	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The essential introduction to Eastern thought	I cannot say enough good things about _Siddhartha_. It is the most potent and miserly introduction to Eastern thought I have read.  With all the vague and mysterious books on Eastern philosophy out there, this book stands alone as the quickest and most efficient way to enlightenment.  If you are curious about Zen Buddhism and Hinduism, this is the best place to start your journey towards enlightenment.  If you are already a Zen guru, this could also be the last book you ever read and you would still get just as much out of it.  It is for both beginner and expert alike.  I especially like the almost biblical flavor to this book.  Herman Hesse is a legitimate myth-maker, and _Siddhartha_ reads like a parable of wisdom from some ancient, archaic religious text.  That is what makes this book so special.  It also almost singlehandedly triggered a worldwide revival in studying and writing about the wisdom of the East.	2003-02-12
US	50317959	R7WAAGO2FOHI7	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A harrowing descent into the mind of a madman	This is the greatest work of fiction I have ever read.  A fascinating, lurid, and disturbing look at the inner workings of a mental institution, this book had me in its grip right from the first page.  This is a seminal work in the history of American counter-culture in the second half of the twentieth century, and is a watershed moment in American literature in general. Along with _Siddhartha_ by Herman Hesse, this is the greatest novel of the twentieth century, and in my expert opinion, the greatest work of fiction ever.	2003-02-12
US	50317959	R1VA5RKRD2HBSX	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	4	26	32	N	N	A monument to one man's egomania	_Remembrance of Things Past_ by Marcel Proust became a year long obsession for me.  Although I had some mixed emotions about it in retrospect, any book that could be so engrossing and fascinating to keep me reading through nearly 3,000 pages had to have been pretty good.  And most of the volumes within this 7-novel / 3-volume work were more than just pretty good; they were quite simply some of the most beautiful, thought-provoking, and philosophical ficticious works ever written.  Keep in mind that I am not even a huge fan of fiction - almost everything I read these days is either nonfiction philosophy, theology, or<br />psychology.  Yet these books remain high atop my best-ever list, and even when I unfairly hold them up against potent nonfiction philosophy from the same time period, they can hold their own as profound psychological commentaries on the universal condition of mankind.<br />  _Remembrance of Things Past_ is the ultimate psychological realist novel ever written.  Russian realist novels by authors such as Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky seem almost elementary compared to Proust.  British Victorian novels come across as meaningless fluff in comparison.  If you are coming from a background of reading Russian realist novels, or something like Thomas Mann, reading Proust is definately the next logical step for you to take in your reading regimen.  Proust is somewhat difficult, but if you are in college and have read at least 15 - 20 good literary novels, you are probably prepared to read this.<br />  The only reason I gave _Remembrance of Things Past_ only four stars instead of five is because of the weakness of two of the novels in the series.  The fourth novel, _Sodom and Gommorrah_ (AKA Cities of the Plain) is a boring and somewhat disgusting account of the demise of a high society figure, Mr. DeCharlus.  Although DeCharlus is a memorable and very realistically drawn character, it becomes tedious reading about his slow, painful mutation into a pathetic, perverted old man.  This goes on for some 600 pages.  Equally boring is the fifth installation in the series, known as _The Captive_.  I will not bore you with the details, but suffice it to say that it is a 600 page book about the follies of a love struck fool; it is a don't-let-this-happen-to-you tale about a man who allows a woman to completely ruin his life, and is some of the most boring 600 pages of literature ever written.<br />  That said, the first three volumes of the series and the last volume represent some of the finest prose ever put into print.  The first volume, _Swann's Way_, and the last, _Time Regained_, are easily five star books and alone are worth the price of this set. The second and third volumes are also five-star, compulsive reading.  Buy the set - just skip volumes 4 and 5.d old man.  This goes on for some 600 pages.  Equally boring is the fifth installation in the series, known as _The Captive_.  I will not bore you with the details, but suffice it to say that it is a 600 page book about the follies of a love struck fool; it is a don't-let-this-happen-to-you tale about a man who allows a woman to completely ruin his life, and is some of the most boring 600 pages of literature ever written.<BR>   That said, the first three volumes of the series and the last volume represent some of the finest prose ever put into print.  The first volume, _Swann's Way_, and the last, _Time Regained_, are easily five star books and alone are worth the price of this set. The second and third volumes are also five-star, compulsive reading.  Buy the set - just skip volumes 4 and 5.	2003-02-12
