US	50314183	R1OKDTAPR8G7RM	0596001320	743185491	Learning Perl, Third Edition	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Perl for Experienced Programmers	I learned Perl 4 from the first edition of this book years ago. I recently read the third edition to get up to speed with Perl 5 and found this book covers nearly every aspect of Perl I've used over the years. Perl is a complex language, and any introductory book on Perl needs to restrict itself to a subset of the language to prevent the reader from becoming overwhelmed. The authors did an excellent job of presenting a subset that is large enough to cover most everyday Perl tasks, yet small enough to remain accessible to the Perl novice. The exercises at the end of each chapter solidify most of the core concepts and syntax of each chapter.<br />There were some shortcomings to the book, however. The book is oriented heavily towards Unix systems, and programmers working on Windows systems will have a hard time getting started and completing some of the exercises. The authors should have provided instructions for downloading ActiveState Perl, a free professional Windows port of Perl, and provided more assistance on the Unix-oriented exercises.<br />Additionally, some basic language features were not covered, such as the peculiarities of do blocks and using chr and ord to convert between characters and their numeric codes. Most importantly, the book does not cover two-dimensional arrays. They are mentioned only in two paragraphs in Appendix B, which refer the reader to four different perldoc sections. This topic is complicated and important enough to warrant its own chapter.<br />In summary, this book is an excellent introduction to Perl for programmers who are experienced in other languages already. It's not so good for beginning programmers because basic programming concepts are not explained. The major shortcoming is that readers, especially those using Windows, will be frustrated at not being able to easily do what they want to do and will too often need to wade through the documentation.	2003-04-24
US	50314183	RZQ132IBTEYND	0596001207	976323122	CSS Pocket Reference	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Obsolete before it hit the shelves	This book does not cover CSS2 nor any of the new versions of the most popular browsers: IE 6, Opera 6, and Netscape 7. Because of these omissions, a significant amount of CSS functionality that is available on most users' browsers is not even mentioned. My advice: find a book that is more up-to-date and buy it instead of this one.	2002-07-23
US	50314183	R3D037SI8BP8HR	0596002963	626731317	HTML Pocket Reference (2nd Edition)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Second Edition is not an Improvement over the First	After being disappointed with the 1st edition of this book, I was looking forward to the 2nd edition, which I expected to be much improved. The new edition does contain improvements in some areas, but also has regressed in others.<br />For example, the book is updated for IE 6, but is missing information on which tags are supported in IE 5. New information on character entities was added, but all information on color names was removed. Tags missing from the 1st edition were added, but now the &lt;img&gt; tag is missing. Most disappointing is the fact that most of the errata and suggestions sent to O'Reilly on the 1st edition were ignored when creating the 2nd edition.<br />The end result is that the 2nd edition is no more helpful than the 1st. The book contains most of the information that experienced web designers need to write HTML, but you will need a more comprehensive book handy to look up information that is missing or inaccurate. If the book were updated according to the suggestions on the O'Reilly site and many examples added, it would be far more useful on its own.	2002-07-03
US	50314183	R3W03ZSLT8YZEP	0596001967	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very Good Comprehensive Guide to Web Design	Overall, this book is the best I've found for explaining all the related web technologies: HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, audio and graphics, and everything else you can find on the web. If there's one book you can rely on for all your web work, it's this one. Of course, if you do substantial CSS, JavaScript, CGI, or servlet work, you'll want separate books for those subjects, too, but this book at least covers the basics of those topics.<br />One of the major drawbacks of the book is the omission of critical details. For example, it's difficult and frustrating to write XHTML or strict HTML using this book as a guide, because throughout the book only transitional HTML is explained. The book also doesn't explain which charset you should use for your web pages, or exactly when you need to return true or false from event handlers. Due to the poor timing of this book's release, it isn't fully updated for MSIE 6.0, which will become the world's most popular browser in 2002. The numerous other omissions and obsolete details prevent me from giving it a 5-star rating -- see the errata at the O'Reilly web site for all the details.<br />Even with all its faults, this is the best book on HTML and related technologies I've found, and it's mostly updated to be current with mid-2001 browsers and tools. I'm hoping that I can rate an improved version of this book 5 stars in the near future!	2002-03-01
US	50314183	RXV54Y7WSRSCM	0596001703	612264316	Java Cookbook	Books	3	124	133	N	N	Half-Baked Recipes	The idea of a Java Cookbook is a good one. This book is very similar to the popular and widely acclaimed Perl Cookbook. Even though Perl is more useful for short stand-alone programs and Java is most effective in large-scale systems, a lot of Java code can follow a standard &quot;recipe&quot;. For example, writing an equals method is a very common and surprisingly difficult task, so having a standard template available along with a discussion of important points is necessary for all but the most advanced Java programmers.<br />To judge the quality of the recipes, I checked out some very basic and common Java problems, such as writing equals and clone methods, synchronizing threads, and comparing floating point numbers. In most cases, I found flaws in the code or accompanying explanations. The discussion of equals doesn't mention that the hashCode method needs to be compatible with it. The recipe for clone has the method unnecessarily throw a CloneNotSupportedException. The explanation of synchronizing threads says that locks are held on methods, instead of correctly pointing out that locks are held on objects. The code for floating point comparison requires that the user keep track of the magnitude of the numbers being compared.<br />By using the term &quot;Cookbook&quot; in the title, I expected to find a collection of the best standard code templates. Instead, I found code samples that merely demonstrated a basic concept, and that they serve as only a starting point for understanding Java. Together with the misleading explanations, this book has the potential for confusing beginning Java programmers as much as it guides them. This book is best used as merely a guide to get the beginning Java programmer started. The &quot;recipes&quot; should be viewed as started points to be improved upon -- using them as is will result in less than optimal Java code.	2001-08-02
US	50314183	R2YFJWS5RZ4IYY	0130850861	479167349	Essential Java Style: Patterns for Implementation	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Reference for Java Programming Teams	The &quot;patterns&quot; in the title of this book refers to a collection of coding principles for translating object-oriented designs into Java programs. This is not a design patterns book, but rather a book on Java style, usage, idioms, and best practices.<br />Because the author comes from a Smalltalk background, the patterns are highly object-oriented. This may be disorienting to developers from a C++ or procedural background, but the longer I program in Java the more I'm convinced that purer OO code is better code. Developers who use UML or object modeling in the design phase will get the most mileage out of this book.<br />One of the main uses of the book is for use during code reviews. The patterns are named so that you can say &quot;this code should use the Default Value Constant pattern&quot; rather than &quot;I think rule #87 should be applied here&quot;. Some of the patterns will be obvious to experienced Java programmers, but are included because many teams have junior programmers who are new to Java. Unfortunately, the book is not organized so that you can quickly find the discussion of a particular pattern. The Pattern Summary does not include page numbers and the Index includes all page numbers where each pattern is mentioned, without bolding or italicizing the pages where the pattern is described.<br />There are a number of idioms specific to Java that are not covered well in the book. The section on equals does not cover the important case of implementing equals in subclasses and doesn't mention that hashCode should be consistant with equals. There is no coverage of using clone to make copies of objects. In addition, there is a significant amount of outdated and incorrect information. I would recommend using this book in conjuction with another book on Java idioms, such as Effective Java or Practical Java.<br />Much of the book is distracting because the author continually points out the &quot;deficiencies&quot; of Java. I do agree with many of hiscomments, but they serve no purpose in this book and quickly become irritating. The frequent comparisons to Smalltalk and C++ are also of little use. I did find that the brace and variable naming conventions did not adhere to Sun's coding conventions, but other than that the book uses standard Java programming style.<br />Overall, the book is a good one, but I look forward to a new edition that is expanded, corrected, updated, and doesn't have so many useless comments.	2001-07-19
US	50314183	R3E5YLB4HLZX9G	0201616467	875922284	Practical Java¿ Programming Language Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must Read for Beginning to Intermediate Java Programmers	I've spent enough time in Java newsgroups to know the aspects of Java that confuse programmers the most. This book covers the most basic and most commonly discussed misunderstood aspects of Java. Don't expect discussions of obscure or extremely complicated topics -- this book focuses on the fundamentals that all Java programmers should know to be more effective developers.<br />All the advice is common sense and will seem obvious after you understand the concepts behind it, but the material in this book is anything but obvious to most practicing Java programmers. One of the best features of the book is that it shows how to use the javap command to examine the bytecode produced by the compiler. This technique allows programmers to continue to learn Java basics that are not covered in the book.<br />One weak section of the book, however, is the section on garbage collection. How garbage collection works is not covered, and I believe that the praxis that discusses setting references to null and calling System.gc will convince many Java programmers that they must continually &quot;help&quot; the garbage collector. Another minor problem is that the hashCode method is not mentioned in the chapter on implementing equals.<br />The best time to read this book is immediately after learning the basics of the Java language. Doing so will clarify and extend your knowledge and save you hours of misery and confusion.	2001-06-11
US	50314183	R2JII7LHR659LQ	0072127422	567390678	Java 2: A Beginner's Guide	Books	3	51	56	N	N	Decent Introduction for Absolute Beginners	Overall, this book is a good introduction to Java for those with little or no programming background. Concepts are explained &quot;from the ground up&quot; so that first-time programmers can understand them. However, for a book that teaches Java to beginners and covers nearly the entire Java language, multithreading, I/O, and graphics programming, 600 pages is not long enough to give thorough and accurate descriptions.<br />I found many oversimplifications and half-truths throughout the book:<br />&quot;Static methods may call only static methods.&quot; Not true -- static methods may call non-static methods if called on an explicit reference.<br />&quot;A call to a superclass constructor must be the first statement in every constructor.&quot; Not true -- you can call the current class's constructor with &quot;this&quot; instead of &quot;super&quot;. This is an important technique called &quot;constructor chaining.&quot;<br />&quot;Wait and notify may be called only from synchronized methods.&quot; Not true -- they may be called from non-synchronized methods as long as they are called from a synchronized block and called on a reference to an object the thread holds a lock on.<br />The explanation about how Java &quot;passes objects by reference&quot; confuses many beginning Java programmers, and the trick of passing an Integer to simulate passing an int by reference doesn't work because Java passes references by value and the wrapper classes are immutable. The explanation about method overloading supporting polymorphism is confusing because which overloaded method to call is decided at compile-time, whereas polymorphism means that the method to call is decided at run-time.<br />There are numerous examples that demonstrate the mechanics of Java without showing how the constructs should be used in an actual Java program. The example of a finalizer neglects to call super.finalize() as all finalizers should. The example of a catch block sweeps the caught exception undera rug instead of recovering from it. The example of a static initializer simply prints a message to show that it was executed instead of doing something useful like loading a class or library.<br />Readers who learn Java from this book should be prepared to study a more thorough and accurate Java programming book after this one. For those who just want to program in Java as a hobby, this makes a decent introduction to the topic. Just be aware that not everything the book says is true or as simple as it appears.	2001-06-01
US	50314183	RUB0B6YKTMWM4	0471361747	753509695	Java Pitfalls: Time-Saving Solutions and Workarounds to Improve Programs	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Beware the Pitfalls in this Book	This book explains some of the more common pitfalls in Java programming. While I can't totally disagree with the any of the suggestions on avoiding the pitfalls, the explanations the authors give are often incomplete and confusing.<br />Take, for example Item 17, where three pages are devoted to explaining what exceptions are. Then there is an example of catching an exception, printing some diagnostics, and re-throwing exactly the same exception. Suddenly, the topic veers to catching OutOfMemoryError. Where is the explanation of the pitfall of mistakenly catching exceptions when they should not be caught, or catching Exception instead of a subclass of Exception? In my experience, these are the pitfalls that Java programmers are more likely to run into. The authors simply didn't explain how 95% of exception handling code should be written.<br />Another example is Item 12, where synchronization is introduced in five pages. The pitfalls I see Java programmers falling into is believing that only one synchronized method in a class may be called at a time, not understanding how static methods are synchronized, and not understanding memory barriers. The authors skip right over those topics and start discussing how to avoid deadlocks.<br />In my first hour of looking through the book, I also found the authors confusing references with objects, passing a reference by value with passing an object by reference, setting references to null and calling System.gc() with rational memory management, exponential growth with quadratic growth, simple assertions with design by contract programming, the semantics of the C assert macro with the semantics of a Java assertion method, the Adapter pattern with a simple superclass, and the Java import statement with the #include directive of C. All of these are pitfalls that Java programmers often run into.<br />Also be aware that nearly half of the book covers GUI pitfalls. This part of the book will be of no use to server-side Java programmers. I can recommend this book only to intermediate-to-advanced Java programmers who write GUI code, and only in addition to other books on Java style or idioms.	2001-05-12
US	50314183	RIH8TL6MRAXUF	0130142603	945859973	Java 2 Performance and Idiom Guide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Must Read for Intermediate Java Developers	Although the word &quot;performance&quot; is in the title, the main goal of this book is to provide a set of best practices and code samples (idioms) that allow correct Java programs to be written quickly and easily. The authors explain the parts of Java that give intermediate Java programmers the most trouble, and that many programmers learn only from years of painful experience. This book will allow a Java programmer who has mastered the basics of the language to quickly progress to an expert Java developer.<br />Interestingly, this book has exactly the same weaknesses as another Java style book I recently read -- the double-checked locking idiom is incorrectly described as thread-safe, the fact the null is a valid value for enumerations implemented as classes is not mentioned, and nested classes are referred to as inner classes. But when I take into consideration how long this book is, I'm surprised there are so few errors.<br />The best way to read this book is slowly and carefully. Even when I thought I already understood a point the authors were making, I picked up subtleties by examining the code closely and re-reading the description of how it works. Writing correct Java programs is often tricky, and only the most experienced Java developers will not learn something from this book.	2001-05-09
US	50314183	R3TY0NKFZW0XPW	0521777682	856208310	The Elements of Java(TM) Style (SIGS Reference Library)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good Book on Java Style	For the most part, this book is a great style guide for Java programmers. Most Java programmers' code would benefit significantly by following the conventions listed here.<br />However, the book gives some bad and confusing advice. The worst advice is the double-check pattern, which is not thread-safe. Some of the other code samples in the Synchronization and Efficiency sections also look like they are not thread-safe. Another example of poor advice is rule 74: Encapsulate enumerations as classes, which doesn't point out that &quot;null&quot; is a valid enumeration value for all such enumerations. The code sample shown in that rule can throw NullPointerException, for example. The advice about &quot;inner classes&quot; is confusing, because it is obvious the advice actually applies to all nested classes, not just inner classes (non-static nested classes).<br />Overall, the book gives good advice to the experienced Java programmer. I can't recommend this book to the beginning Java programmer, partly because of the above reasons, but mostly because the book mentions so many aspects of the Java language it could easily overwhelm a beginner. Once you've mastered the basics of the Java language, however, this is a good book to take a look at.	2001-05-02
US	50314183	R2IKI2HPO4SZH9	1565926226	683384123	Cascading Style Sheets: The Definitive Guide	Books	3	50	59	N	N	Confusing and Incomplete Guide to CSS	In chapter 1, the author does a great job of convincing the reader why style sheets should be used in place of HTML tags to control the visual presentation of a web page. In chapter 2, he does an equally good job at confusing the reader on how styles work. When I look back at the chapter, everything seems to be explained in great detail. However, the author provides no exercises or mnemonics to help memorize all the intertwining rules about grouping, selectors, structure, inheritance, specificity, and most importantly of course, the cascade. In this book, CSS is presented like mathematics: you must entirely understand the first chapters before going to the next. Even though I did extremely well in math classes and develop web applications for a living, this chapter made my head spin.<br />The first thing I tried to do with style sheets was to convert some of my web pages to strict HTML by changing my &lt;div align=&quot;center&quot;&gt; tags to CSS. According to page 88, the way to do that is with the style &quot;text-align: center;&quot;. Of course, this style doesn't center tables, only the text within the table cells. With considerably more digging, I found that &quot;margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto;&quot; was the way to center a table. Unfortunately, that style doesn't center headings or images. I finally was able to find a combination of both styles that simulate &lt;div align=&quot;center&quot;&gt;, but I found it only through trial-and-error, not through insight gained from this book. This book needs a chapter on CSS style equivalents to HTML style tags, in more detail than the &quot;CSS in Action&quot; chapter.<br />Perhaps the problem is that I'm working with the latest versions of the Mozilla and Opera browsers, both of which support CSS2. Unfortunately, this book explains only CSS1, and provides one short chapter in the back on the differences between CSS1 and CSS2. Because CSS2 browsers are becoming popular, CSS2 is what should be described throughthe book, and differences in CSS1 should be explained as they come up, not in a chapter in the back.<br />On the positive side, the book does seem to provide enough information that if you memorize the important parts, dig hard, and experiment a lot, you can eventually figure out how to get CSS to do what you want. I hope the second edition makes this memorization, digging, and experimentation a lot easier.	2001-03-13
US	50314183	R2AD0HN3XXZ50Y	0201354934	245118064	HTML 4 for the World Wide Web, Fourth Edition	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great HTML Tutorial for Beginners	I've been doing some HTML coding over the past five years and recently delved into learning HTML 4.01, XHTML, CSS, and some of the other newer technologies. After reading some more technical books, I looked at this one to see why it's so popular. It's easy to see why. All the basics of HTML and related technologies such as graphics, multimedia, and CSS are explained very simply with tons of examples HTML code and screenshots of browsers.<br />Now for the downside of the book: it's fairly short but covers a lot of topics. This means there is very little depth to the discussion, and lots of details are left out. If you're just getting started with HTML, that's probably appropriate. But after you digest a good chunk of this book, you'll want to get a meatier HTML or web design book and go back and fill in the missing pieces.<br />One more nit about this book: in my years of dealing with HTML, I've too often run across an HTML page that worked great in some browsers, but failed miserably on another. These failures included crashing the browser and printing thousands of pages to the printer! In every case, simply validating the HTML with the W3C validator would have picked up the problem right away. This book does mention using the validator, but only after you've noticed a problem. Take my advice: after getting each HTML page to look good in one browser, validate it! You'll save yourself and others lots of trouble.	2001-02-27
US	50314183	R1EQVYEMGLX7X	1565925157	844315741	Web Design in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Comprehensive but Outdated	I'm amazed at the range of topics covered by this book, especially because it was published in early 1999. It contains information on HTML 4, PNG, animated GIFs, multimedia, JavaScript, dynamic HTML, and XML. There are several noticable gaps, however. For example, the &lt;!DOCTYPE&gt; tag is not described, and information on character sets is very limited. But almost everything that most web developers need to know is covered.<br />The book's biggest weakness is that much has changed in the past two years. HTML 4.01, XHTML, Java servlets, MNG (animated PNGs), Internet Explorer 5.5, and Netscape 6 have appeared. Of course, this book doesn't mention any of these. If you want to stay informed of the latest technologies, you'll have to buy a more up-to-date book in addition to this one.	2001-01-30
US	50314183	R1H3QLW6KQSHDV	059600026X	311024896	HTML & XHTML : The Definitive Guide	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Possibly Definitive, but not entirely Practical	Technically, this is probably the best book on HTML (and now XHTML) around. However, it falls short in explaining related topics adequately. For example, the chapter on multimedia devotes several pages to GIF, but doesn't bother to inform you that you must pay a royalty to Unisys when you use GIF, or even mention the new PNG graphics format that is replacing GIF partly for this reason but mostly because it's just better than GIF. The chapter on tips and tricks doesn't include the most important tip: run your HTML through a verifier to ensure that it's well-formed. If you're looking for a book that tells you how to create web pages, perhaps a less definitive but more balanced book would be best.	2001-01-09
US	50314183	RHMC8MKPVQ5JG	1565925793	626731317	HTML Pocket Reference (Pocket Reference (O'Reilly))	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Great Reference for the Web Expert, but Not for Beginners	This book is essentially just an alphabetical list of most of the HTML tags and attributes. Each is explained briefly and the browsers that support each tag are listed. At the end of the book is a list of &quot;tag groups&quot; that group functionally related tags, a list of character entities, and a table of colors. If you're very familiar with HTML and just need this listing of tags and attributes, this is the book for you!<br />If you're not an HTML expert, however, this book might be more confusing that helpful. For example, if you want to center some text but you don't want to use the deprecated &lt;center&gt; tag, you need to know which tag to look up. There are few examples, so if you want to add a Java applet to a page, you need to already know what to put in the &lt;object&gt; tag. There's no description of the &lt;!DOCTYPE&gt; tag that all HTML 4 compliant web pages need. Much of the HTML in the book is not XHTML compliant. Although the book claims to cover every tag in HTML 4, there are some that it leaves out. And the only web site the book refers to is yet another alphabetical list of tags.<br />If you already know HTML well and have a good HTML reference book, this book will allow you to quickly look up information tags and attributes. But if you're not an expert and want to write good, clean HTML 4 compliant markup, save your money.	2000-12-12
US	50314183	R2HJQTGKX0HW70	1565924835	156774337	Java Enterprise in a Nutshell: A Desktop Quick Reference (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Excellent but Incomplete and Dated Reference for J2EE	This book had the misfortune of being written before Java 2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE) was available. As a result, the book doesn't cover some of the packages in J2EE and refers to the packages not in J2SE as &quot;standard extensions&quot;. The material the book does cover is still relavent, but will become even more dated with the release of the next version of J2EE. I look forward to the second edition of this book, which I hope would add JSP, XML, and JavaMail to the list of topics, and also cover newer versions of the J2EE APIs.<br />The information given in the book is sketchy in places, and it's in these places that Java Examples in a Nutshell comes in handy. These two books make an excellent pair. But if you're looking for a complete reference to J2EE, this isn't it (yet).	2000-11-06
US	50314183	RJRMC9JLB68NS	0782128254	150078690	The Complete Java 2 Certification Study Guide: Programmer's and Developers Exams (With CD-ROM)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Good overall Java review; not for cramming	I studied for the Java Programmers Certification Exam using the first edition of the book. I'd already had a few years of experience using Java on and off, and this book was a very helpful reminder of some of the finer points of the Java language that I'd forgotten or managed to miss.<br />I've heard that some people use only this book to prepare for the exam, but beware that Sun has recently changed the exam to require background knowledge of programming, not just memorization of Java trivia. I'd recommend learning Java from one of the several excellent tutorial books available (The Java Programming Language is my suggestion), doing some actual Java programming, then reading this book just before taking the exam.<br />I'm disappointed to hear that this new edition has lots of typos, just like the previous edition did. The good news is that Sybex now has a copy of the errata on their website. When I reported errata in the first edition, the Sybex editors put the errors on their website and corrected later printings of the book. If you do find errors in the book, don't just whine about it; do everyone else a favor and e-mail the errors to Sybex!	2000-11-04
US	50314183	R1E4NY7NO43NXH	0072118458	150829608	SQL: The Complete Reference	Books	5	45	49	N	N	An Almost Complete SQL Reference	The title of this book says it all: it's an extremely complete reference to the SQL language. It covers the SQL-89 and SQL2 standards and indicates the features found in SQL2 but not in SQL-89. It covers not only basic SQL data definition, queries, and updates, but also advanced topics such as transaction processing, security, embedded SQL, stored procedures, and object-oriented databases. It also explains how some of the more popular DBMSs vary from or extend standard SQL.<br />There are some places where the information on SQL is not quite complete. For example, the section on data types doesn't give the sizes of the integer types. As another reviewer mentioned, the section on built-in functions doesn't provide enough information to use some of the more rarely used functions. But these omissions are minor; overall, the completeness of information on SQL is quite impressive.<br />If you're totally new to relational databases, and you need to design a database schema, you'll want to also get a book on database modeling and normalization, because these topics are not covered. But if you know relational databases or merely need to write queries and updates on an existing database, this book will be more than adequate.<br />In addition, if you want to access a database from Java or Perl, you'll also want a book on JDBC or DBI, respectively. Perhaps a future edition of the book will cover these topics in the SQL APIs chapter, but they're probably too new to have made it into this edition.	2000-10-18
US	50314183	R2GBQXB0XIAPIP	0201447878	262165469	The Practical SQL Handbook: Using Structured Query Language (3rd Edition)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Relational Databases and SQL	If you know nothing about databases, this book is a great place to start. It explains what a relational database is, how to design and create one, and how to perform updates and queries. It covers just about everything you'll need to know, such as normalization, outer joins, security, and transaction processing. Even though the book sticks with the basics, it covers everything that most SQL programmers will need to know.<br />One weakness of the book is that it doesn't distinguish which features are part of SQL-89, which are part of SQL2 (aka SQL-92). For some features, such as outer joins, implementation-specific syntax is given without the standard SQL syntax. Because of this, it may be more difficult for readers of this book to write SQL that will work on many different databases.<br />An important thing to note about this book is that it covers only SQL. That means it doesn't cover stored procedure dialects, embedded SQL, or SQL APIs such as ODBC, JDBC, or DBI. If you're going to actually use SQL, you'll need another reference that explains how to interface with a SQL database.	2000-10-18
US	50314183	RY07SBLCO2OFM	0672316641	327076597	Sams Teach Yourself SQL in 10 Minutes	Books	3	56	64	N	N	Good as a basic intro, but don't depend solely on this book	This book is clearly aimed at the beginning SQL programmer with little or no knowledge of relational databases. It's a good intro that will quickly get the reader up to speed at writing some very simple queries and updates on an existing database.<br />However, in working with other programmers, I've learned that it's true about a little knowledge being a dangerous thing. If your only knowledge of SQL and relational databases comes from this book, you're in danger of missing out on some very basic information, such as how to normalize a database or perform an outer join.<br />If you learn SQL from this book, you'll quickly want to get another book on SQL that's more complete to fill you in on this missing critical information. Unless for some reason you need to start programming in SQL as soon as possible (in other words, before you understand what you're doing), just skip this book and buy just the more complete book.	2000-10-18
US	50314183	RPX9CU6H37DWO	020135358X	396792060	Perl and CGI for the World Wide Web (Visual QuickStart Guide)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Good Perl/CGI book for non-programmers	This book is clearly geared towards the non-programmer or beginning programmer. It's similar to a &quot;Perl CGI for Dummies&quot; book, with an introduction that includes the section &quot;What is a program?&quot;. The author holds your hand every step of the way. If you like step-by-step explanations of what to do, this is the book for you.<br />If you're a programmer, I'd recommend one of the O'Reilly Perl books, an HTML book, and the &quot;perldoc CGI&quot; documentation that comes free with perl. You might want to borrow this book, as I did, to pick up some tips on forms and cookies.<br />If you don't know much about programming, you'll want to investigate books on Java Servlets and JSP as well. Perl and Java are two very different programming languages, and most people will strongly prefer one language over the other.<br />One especially weak section of the book is the chapter on debugging. The author explains how to check the syntax of a Perl script without running it, but doesn't explain that you can actually run a Perl CGI script from the command line. She also makes the horrendous mistake of not recommending &quot;use strict&quot; and the &quot;-w&quot; switch! There's also no mention of how to use the perl debugger, or the GUI debugger from ActiveState. I can't imagine trying to debug my Perl CGI programs using her rudimentary techniques.	2000-09-29
US	50314183	R11LSO6A5NZ6J5	0596000324	53625358	Perl 5 Pocket Reference, 3rd Edition: Programming Tools (O'Reilly Perl)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nearly Perfect Reference Guide	With the addition of an index and references to perldoc commands, and updated material for Perl 5.6, this reference guide is virtually all a Perl programmer needs. To steal from Larry Wall's Foreward from this book, it's really hard to write a review about something this perfect.<br />I do wish the book had some extra material: a link to where to get a copy of Perl, some tips on using the -w switch and &quot;use strict&quot; to find bugs, an explanation of the basic perldoc options, a link to the Perl newsgroups and guidelines for posting to them, a few more choice examples of code. To steal from Larry's Foreward again, this information would have made things ever so much easier if I'd had it *before* I started writing in Perl...<br />Update: I'm not sure why other reviewers are saying that this reference is not very useful. Until today, this book has been my only Perl reference for over a year and thousands of lines of Perl code, except for occasionally using perl's built-in help. I did refer to Programming Perl today to find how to make a hash slice on a hash reference that is stored in a hash, but unless you're writing something complicated like that, this pocket reference tells you how to do it. If you really can think of something that's missing, be sure to visit the O'Reilly web site and give them the feedback!	2000-08-30
US	50314183	R1JPI6ZHY4C1AH	0201704331	662940302	Java(TM) Programming Language, The (3rd Edition) (The Java Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	If you buy only one Java book, make it this one!	After reading this book and working many of the exercises within, you'll know the basics of the Java language better than most Java programmers do. The authors don't waste time on explaining the basics of object-oriented  programming or details of the Java class library. If you already know OOP  and feel comfortable with reading the online documentation then this is the book for you!<br />This book is  ideal for C++ programmers who don't know Java, but I'd also highly  recommend it to programmers who already know Java but want to jump to the  expert level or want to learn the new features of Java 2.	2000-08-14
US	50314183	R35ZE7RLWF46II	0201360659	25162905	Java(tm) in Practice: Design Styles and Idioms for Effective Java	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Good Java Design Book	Overall, this book does a decent job of explaining good design techniques to the programmer who is already familiar with Java. There are plenty of code examples, along with UML diagrams to help explain the designs that are  presented. There's even an appendix on UML for those unfamiliar with the  modeling language.<br />There are some flaws in this book, however. The book  is not updated for Java 2, and is therefore rapidly becoming obsolete.  Additionally, a significant number of typos and inconsistent use of terms  clouds the already difficult subject matter. Especially bad is the  discussion of the Cloneable interface, in which the authors state that  different compilers treat Cloneable classes differently, but do not explain  what the correct behavior is according to the Java Language Specification  or how to work around these compiler problems.<br />There is some good  material in the book, but in my opinion not enough of it and too many  problems in the presentation, to justify the cover price.	2000-06-26
US	50314183	R1TWG51WE4LNJI	0071350934	837722118	Inside the Java 2 Virtual Machine	Books	3	30	35	N	N	Long on Words, Short on Details	As the author himself states, the first four chapters of the book are merely a &quot;broad overview of Java's architecture&quot;. The majority of this material should be familiar to Java programmers. I was so bored that I  skipped ahead to chapter five.  The next five chapters are a little better,  but again much of the material is basic Java architecture including class  loading, verification, and garbage collection.<br />Finally, in chapter ten  the author starts describing the bytecode instructions, but many details  are glossed over, left out, or just plain wrong. For example, there's  almost no description of how the bytecode verifier checks stack operations,  and the description of the multianewarray bytecode when the number of  dimensions in the bytecode does not match the number of dimensions of the  type of the array is completely wrong. If the author had included a  bytecode assembler, such as Jasmin, and had provided exercises, these  weaknesses would have become readily apparent.<br />If you're a Java  programmer and just want a basic overview of what goes on behind the scenes  to allow your Java program to load and run, this book may be adequate. But  if you intend on writing a compiler or a JVM, or writing code in bytecode  assembly, or just learning what really goes on behind the scenes, I'd  recommend one of the other books on the JVM.	2000-05-30
US	50314183	R3AWYZKQM3NGCR	0201309726	730032383	Programming for the Java¿ Virtual Machine	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Good Tutorial Introduction to the Java Virtual Machine	The first five chapters of this book provide an introduction to programming in &quot;Java assembly language&quot; using the assembler included on the CD-ROM. This introduction does a good job of explaining the  JVM instructions, but could have used more exercises to help the reader  learn and practice using more of the instructions. Additionally, the  chapters, appendices, and index could have been better organized so that I  didn't have to keep flipping through pages to find the syntax and semantics  of instructions.<br />The remainder of the book explores various areas such as  verification, debugging, the class file format, security, and most  importantly, compiling Java and other languages into JVM code. Mostly, this  material is a tutorial introduction to information provided in the Java  Virtual Machine Specification, but there is some original material in the  chapters devoted to compiling Scheme and Prolog.<br />Be aware that this book  contains numerous errors; you'll want to grab the errata list from the  Addison-Wesley website.	2000-05-23
US	50314183	RWC9RIR2PV3QA	0201606364	38408515	The Windows NT and Windows 2000 Answer Book: A Complete Resource from the Desktop to the Enterprise	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Good Windows NT Resource for Experts	My first impression of this book was that it is an excellent resource for those who want to know more about Windows NT and 2000. I've used many operating systems over the years, Windows 3.1/95/98 in particular, but I've  only recently started using Windows 2000. I expected this book to help me  greatly with the problems and questions I've had, but so far the book has  not lived up to the expectations I had after reading the rave reviews here.  There are many flaws with the presentation of Windows 2000, including  information that is incomplete, inconsistent, and outdated. In addition,  I've had several problems that are typical of newcomers to Windows NT but  that are not covered by this book. This book may be great for people who  are already comfortable with Windows NT and who aren't using Windows 2000,  but others might find this book a disappointment.	2000-02-16
US	50314183	R14INIT3T3C2QN	1565924959	53625358	Perl 5 Pocket Reference	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good but incomplete reference	This book provides a useful reference to the most often used constructs in Perl programs, as well as command-line options to perl, the Perl compiler, and the Perl debugger. There are some notable topics missing, for example, the perldoc and perlbug commands. Additionally, there is vital information missing, for example, that &quot;last&quot; and &quot;next&quot; do not work in do {} while blocks, and what will happen if you leave off the optional &quot;len&quot; parameter of the substr function. The book could also use a section of tips that suggests the use of &quot;use strict&quot; and the -w option to help debug programs, explains how to search the FAQs with perldoc, and gives guidelines for posting to the Perl newsgroups. What this book is missing most is an index. If you want to look up a function but you don't know what it does, you have to revert to flipping through the pages. Because of these omissions, this book is best for the programmer who is already adept at Perl and has other Perl references.<br />Update: This review is for the second edition of the book, which did not include an index and other important topics. If you want my opinion on the third edition, look for the review by schapel.	2000-02-14
