US	50320759	R3C36J99KI1PNI	1589190300	941492293	When the Lion Roars	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An enjoyable, informative read	Where the Lion Roars is a dramatic novel about a challenging topic-the civil war in southern Sudan. In her easy reading voice, DiAnn Mills presents an intense fictional tale of a young Sudanese girl's rescue from slave traders. Ms Mills has skillfully crafted three very unique and diametrically opposite characters: Dr. Larson Kerr, an American physician; Paul Farid, a Christian Arab who flies for FTW (Feed the World); and Colonel Ben Alier, a leader of the SPLA (Sudanese People's Liberation Army) guerilla forces. <br /> <br />Larson, Paul, and Ben also wrestle with personal spiritual wars as they search for Ben's sister, Rachel. Paul, like his Biblical namesake, is guilt-ridden by his persecution of the Sudanese Christians before he renounced his royal family. A bitter Larson is running from her childhood faith and turning a deaf ear to a God who allows bad things to happen to good people. Ben's rage at the atrocities against his people is at constant odds with his Christian faith.  <br /> <br />Ben and Larson openly distrust all Arabs, and Paul must constantly strive to prove himself at the same time keeping his ties to the Khartoum's Islamic government from Larson. Because of their individual desire to provide hope for the people of Sudan, the three set aside their prejudices and form a most unlikely alliance to execute a daring rescue of Rachel. And, in the process, find themselves caught in a tenuous love triangle.  <br />Simultaneously, the reader follows the struggles of Nyok, the young boy Ben has assigned as Larson's \\"warrior-protector.\\" Larson and Paul believe Nyok should get an education, Ben believes he should fight with the SPLA. Nyok must determine how God wants to use him to bring peace to his beloved southern Sudan. Clearly, Ms Mills uses Nyok to represent a type of the true hope of Sudan for a peaceful future.  <br /> <br />When the Lion Roars is not an easily categorized book. It has suspense, though it's not a suspense novel. It hints at romance, but it's not a romance and it's not a mystery. It is a well-written fictional novel based on what's happening in Sudan. The story gives clarity and a sense of understanding to a complicated part of today's world. That Ms Mills has spent many hours researching is obvious. The basic Sudanese conflict unfolds in an understandable manner without over-simplification of the complexity of the issues surrounding the conflict. She minces no words in her portrayal of the GOS's human rights abuses, and, through her three main characters' point of view, you feel the agony and frustration of the situation in Sudan.  <br /> <br />Her skill as writer comes through in the fast-paced opening pages and well-crafted scene hooks. As a reader, you want to keep going to see how the story ends. Her commitment to her faith is apparent as her characters struggle to find the purpose for their lives and in their work. Yet, these Christian issues do not overpower the plot.  <br /> <br />I've read many books by Ms Mills and found this one to be an incredibly enlightening read. An unexpected adventure! I think you will too, and I highly recommend its purchase. For those of you looking for a book club selection or small group study book, When the Lion Roars even has a Christian-focused discussion guide to use. <br />	2005-05-19
US	50320759	R6E6CO2TP7JIQ	0743464737	775674724	Out of the Mist (Stewart Sisters Trilogy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An easy to read, fun-to-read romantic tale!	<BR><BR>JoAnn Ross's first book of her Stewart sister trilogy is a unique blend of Scottish-American culture with historical facts and fantasy centered on the Brooch of Lorn, a historic jewel which has gone back and forth between the feuding Stewarts and the MacDougalls ever since it was ripped from Robert the Bruce's tartan in 1306. <BR><BR><BR>The main characters, Lily Stewart and Ian MacDougall MacKenzie, aren't looking for romance or commitment, but the attraction that sparks when Ian appears at the Stewart castle resort in the midst of a terrible storm will not be ignored. The castle, affectionately called Stewart's Folly, straddles the North Carolina-Tennessee border of the Smoky Mountains and is home for the eclectic Stewart clan. <BR><br /><BR>In order to maintain the sprawling manor, the family sponsors the Highland Games on the castle grounds. Ian, under the guise of filming a documentary about the games, has really come to steal the brooch for the MacKenzie clan. Lily is the coordinator of the games. Lively sensual dialogue snaps back and forth between the two as each attends to his/her personal agenda. The twists and turns in their romance provide a fun read.<BR><br /><BR>The transitions between character history, brooch history, and storyline are a little awkward at times, but Ms Ross's superb and evocative word pictures paint the Scottish Highland games firmly in the reader's mind. <BR><br /><BR>The engaging personalities of her secondary characters add yet another level of charm to the book. Duncan MacDougall, the ornery Scotsman who sent his grandson to America to reclaim the brooch; Lily's father John Angus Stewart and his very young fiancée Jenny; zany, mystic Aunt Zelda; divorced Aunt Melanie and her bag piping daughter, Missy, and Lily's grandmother Annie are all quirky, captivating characters who draw you into the story. <BR><BR><BR>OUT OF THE MIST is a terrific combination of Ms Ross's distinct contemporary writing style and her story weavinggift. Her subtle, witty humor interspersed with all that Scottish history, firefly science and even the geological review of plate tectonics keeps you turning the pages. The snippets and hints of the coming stories of Lily's two sisters, Lark and Laurel, will have you eagerly awaiting the sister's stories.	2003-10-24
US	50320759	R5AEPLOF71WZ2	0803495056	138386300	Blue Plate Special	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Down Home Romance - Wonderful read!	Blue Plate Special transports you to the world of a Texas truck stop and cattle ranch through Cheri Jetton's wonderful and evocative word pictures and lively dialogue. The main characters, Megan Stallings and Chad Winslow, immediately capture your heart because they are portrayed as two very human individuals whose imperfections make their story all the more believable. Their interactions quickly draw you into their story. The personalities of her engaging secondary characters -- Chad's parents, Buck and Eileen; diner waitress, Nadine; trucker Booth -- add yet another level of depth to her captivating book.   <br />Meghan's running from her poor choices when her car breaks down. She's rescued by Chad, a rancher turned knight in shining armor. But, has she made another mistake when she falls in love with him? Is Chad a married man? <br />Ms Jetton weaves a charming tale with threads of truck stop wisdom, wholesome southern values, and a cattle ranchers' family honor into a delightful story about two stubborn hearts maneuvering potholes and detours to find each other and a happily ever after home together. <br />Blue Plate Special will provide great reading for a lazy spring day. Cheri Jetton hooked me with her refreshing style. I'm ordering her Texas Dawn today. <br />I recommend you order Blue Plate Special and Texas Dawn, too.	2003-03-31
US	50320759	RSYC7H298AGHA	1586605526	524569230	Currier & Ives Christmas: Dreams and Secrets/Snow Storm/Image of Love/Circle of Blessings (Inspirational Christmas Romance Collection)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Charming Holiday Reading	<br /><BR>A delightful anthology of Christian romances by four very talented writers. The four novellas tell wholesome, heartwarming stories of holiday love in Currier & Ives classic American art settings. <BR><br /><BR>DREAMS AND SECRETS by DiAnn Mills tells of the tender romance between Emma Leigh Carter and Thad Benson, who work together at the Jones Inn outside Philadelphia in the 1850s. Thad struggles with his dream of medical school and his growing attraction to Emma. Emma puts aside her feelings for Thad because she must help her family during her father's illness. Then Emma oversees a Christmas gift exchange for the Inn's owner and Thad draws her name. In her marvelous easy-to-read storytelling style, DiAnn Mills blends the young couple's faith and their tender love into an enchanting story that will warm the heart of readers from eight to eighty-eight. <BR><br /><BR>Lynn A. Coleman's THE SNOW STORM sets the love story of Angela Harris and Michael Farley in the middle of a blizzard and uses the holiday season to draw the lovers together. <BR><br /><BR>JoAnn A. Grote offers a delightful glimpse of life after the Civil War in her IMAGE OF LOVE as she tells how Lane Powell softens Mantie Clark's resolve never to love again after losing her love and one of her brothers in the war. <BR><br /><BR>Deborah Raney's CIRCLE OF BLESSING centers on a family holiday tradition. Ms Raney's heroine Stella Bradford is determined to win the love of James Collingwood, her University professor with a dark secret in his past. You'll receive a blessing along with Stella and James.<BR><br /><BR>A CURRIER & IVES CHRISTMAS would be a wonderful addition to anyone's library and a great holiday gift. <BR><br /><BR>I also highly recommend MAIL ORDER HUSBAND by DiAnn Mills and BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY by Deborah Raney.	2002-10-15
US	50320759	RW8PQYOFJDV6Q	1586605526	524569230	Currier & Ives Christmas: Dreams and Secrets/Snow Storm/Image of Love/Circle of Blessings (Inspirational Christmas Romance Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perfect holiday gift for any reader on your list!	<br /><BR>A delightful anthology of Christian romances by four very talented writers. The four novellas tell wholesome, heartwarming stories of holiday love in Currier & Ives classic American art settings. <BR><br /><BR>DREAMS AND SECRETS by DiAnn Mills tells of the tender romance between Emma Leigh Carter and Thad Benson, who work together at the Jones Inn outside Philadelphia in the 1850s. Thad struggles with his dream of medical school and his growing attraction to Emma. Emma puts aside her feelings for Thad because she must help her family during her father's illness. Then Emma oversees a Christmas gift exchange for the Inn's owner and Thad draws her name. In her marvelous easy-to-read storytelling style, DiAnn Mills blends the young couple's faith and their tender love into an enchanting story that will warm the heart of readers from eight to eighty-eight. <BR><br /><BR>Lynn A. Coleman's THE SNOW STORM sets the love story of Angela Harris and Michael Farley in the middle of a blizzard and uses the holiday season to draw the lovers together. <BR><br /><BR>JoAnn A. Grote offers a delightful glimpse of life after the Civil War in her IMAGE OF LOVE as she tells how Lane Powell softens Mantie Clark's resolve never to love again after losing her love and one of her brothers in the war. <BR><br /><BR>Deborah Raney's CIRCLE OF BLESSING centers on a family holiday tradition. Ms Raney's heroine Stella Bradford is determined to win the love of James Collingwood, her University professor with a dark secret in his past. You'll receive a blessing along with Stella and James.<BR><br /><BR>A CURRIER & IVES CHRISTMAS would be a wonderful addition to anyone's library and a great holiday gift. <BR><br /><BR>I also highly recommend you include MAIL ORDER HUSBAND by DiAnn Mills and BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY by Deborah Raney when you purchase this book.	2002-10-08
US	50320759	R1S67GWOFKPYAJ	0821772341	54816117	Kentucky Rich	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Colemans and Thorntons the never ending saga goes on!	<BR>In another great narrative chronology, Fern Michaels weaves the saga of the Coleman-Thornton families into Kentucky and the arena of thoroughbred horseracing. If you've read the Texas and Vegas series, you'll love becoming acquainted with - Nealy Coleman Diamond, a woman who, with incredible luck and lots of hard work, has succeeded in the man's world of thoroughbred racing.<BR> <BR>   With her usual superb storytelling style, Fern Michaels's plot is believably straightforward in its portrayal of women and men in the thoroughbred-racing world. She weaves passion, power, greed, ruthless games, dysfunctional families, and cruelty of the human spirit into a compelling tale with a cliffhanger ending that will have you eagerly awaiting the next installment.<BR> <BR>   Criticism about the setting's factual details of the horseracing world may or may not be well founded, but you have to remember -- it is a fictional story. <BR><BR>   Kentucky Heat lacks in-depth character development and skims over long passages of time, but the plot twists will keep you turning the pages. The introduction of multiple characters from the Texas and Las Vegas tales may be problematic for those readers unfamiliar with the previous series, but enough backstory places the characters for the reader. All in all, it's classic Fern Michaels and an entertaining read.	2002-05-22
US	50320759	R1B5D758H749DV	1551668637	205704227	A New Attitude	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A fun, summer read!	<BR>A NEW ATTITUDE is warm-hearted and funny with a bizarre beginning!<BR><BR>Marilee Abernathy's minister husband deserts her for a floozy, and her adolescent son goes with him. Depressed, she plans an unbelievably inept attempt at suicide. When the fake-wood ceiling beam that she's slung her thin drapery cord over crashes to the floor, her gorgeous next-door neighbor comes to her rescue. Marilee quickly recognizes that suicide is not the answer. Instead, she decides to be strong for her son and show the people of Chickpea, South Carolina that she's made of stronger stuff and launches forth with a new attitude. <BR>An attitude that helps her file for divorce, find a job in a funeral parlor in her small town of Chickpea, South Carolina, seek custody of her son, take in a pregnant teen, and find love with the bad-boy-next-door she longed for in high school. <BR><BR>Sam Brewer, who rushed to Marilee's rescue, recognizes her as the girl he had a high school crush on. Sam, a reformed bad boy, has sold his business and moved home to take care of his elderly mother. Although Sam has enough problems of his own - his mischievous, matchmaking mother and a clinging ex-wife, he can't stop himself from being drawn into Marilee's problems.<BR><BR>The romance between Sam and Marilee is there, but A NEW ATTITUDE is more about strong women finding personal empowerment. Charlotte Hughes blends macabre humor with real life issues like divorce, teenage pregnancy, divorce, and child custody to create an entertaining, funny story.	2002-05-17
US	50320759	R2U01IFIN5WOOX	1586603892	770240435	The English Garden: Woman of Valor/Apple of His Eye/A Flower Amidst the Ashes/Robyn's Garden (Inspirational Romance Collection)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful inspirational romance reading	<br />The English Garden is an anthology of Christian romances by four very talented writers. The four novellas are set in or around a garden theme and span from medieval time to modern day. Great reading for a lazy spring afternoon as you relax in the warm sun.<BR><br /><BR>DiAnn Mills, in her marvelous easy-to-read style, weaves a tender romance between Margaret Walker and Lieutenant Andrew Stuart. Set in the midst of Germany's air raids on London during World War II, A FLOWER AMIDST THE ASHES blends an engaging story of two people caught in the realities of war with authentic historical and cultural accuracy.<BR><br /><BR>In ROBYN'S GARDEN, Kathleen Y'Barbo tells of the struggles of Robyn Locksley and Travis Gentry to understand each other and blend their American and English cultures. Memorable supporting characters make their journey through an English garden to each other one you won't soon forget. <BR><br /><BR>Gail Gaymer Martin offers a delightful glimpse of Victorian English society in her APPLE OF HIS EYE. You'll love Sarah Hampton as she wins the love of her life, \\"Big John\\" Banning, in spite of the fact that he's not of her social class.<BR><br /><BR>Jill Stengl's A WOMAN OF VALOR portrays Helen Walker's journey through trying circumstances and personal phobias to Oliver. Set in medieval times, Helen's courage and unfaltering faith is inspiring.<BR><br /><BR>All four of these novellas, though set in four different eras, provide wholesome romantic stories to affirm God's perfect plan for each of us in His garden that we call life. I'll certainly be watching for other titles by these talented writers.	2002-03-12
US	50320759	R1QUVSP4R2KCI0	158660113X	784438708	Yellow Roses: Serena's Strength/A Woman's Place/The Reluctant Fugitive/Saving Grace (Inspirational Romance Collection)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great inspirational love stories	Yellow Roses is an anthology of Christian romances set in 19th century Texas.  Each novella is a stand-alone story of plucky heroines and Texas Ranger heroes. All four novellas are good, short reads, but two are outstanding: Serena's Strength and Saving Grace.<br />DiAnn Mills skillfully weaves a tender romance between Serena Talbot and Chet Wilkinson while portraying their spiritual struggles in an unobtrusive, believable way in SERENA'S STRENGTH. Her historical and cultural accuracy blends an engaging story line and an authentic narrative of life as Texas Ranger in the developing Republic of Texas.  <br />Kathleen Y'Barbo narrates the story of a tenacious Texas Ranger widow, Grace Delaney who struggles to keep her home and family together and Jedadiah Harte, ex-Texas Ranger turned preacher in SAVING GRACE. Their spiritual journey with God and to each other is a well crafted, uplifting read. <br />While all four are well-written and wholesome romantic stories, I'm sure you'll want to read other titles by both DiAnn Mills and Kathleen Y'Barbo.	2002-01-05
US	50320759	RKF8XZSJJAO4S	0310239680	676910659	Eyes of Elisha (Chelsea Adams Series #1)	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Powerful psychic suspense in an inspirational setting	Brandilyn Collins skillfully weaves a fast-paced story of psychic visions with engaging characters and interesting plot twists that keep the reader guessing until the end. A remarkable book that effective combines page-turner suspense with Christian context.<br />Heroine Chelsea Adams, a new Christian, relives the brutal attack of a stalker in a grisly vision and identifies the murderer as her husband's soon-to-be business associate. <br />From that point, her God-given visions fill Chelsea's world with uncertainty and danger. Her husband Paul, who barely accepts her newfound faith anyway, challenges the accuracy of her vision, but cannot deny the threat unleashed upon his wife and family. <br />The Bay Area law enforcement officers, with their own crises of belief, have difficulty producing the necessary proof and struggle to protect Chelsea and her family from the madman determined to end to her visions forever.  <br />Collins has created multi-dimensional characters that add depth and poignancy to her plot. While ratcheting up the tension, she is still able to portray their spiritual struggles in an unobtrusive, believable way.<br />A great read that I guarantee will keep you engaged to the great climatic ending.	2002-01-05
US	50320759	R2O6MSXJBA6G4D	158660113X	784438708	Yellow Roses: Serena's Strength/A Woman's Place/The Reluctant Fugitive/Saving Grace (Inspirational Romance Collection)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great inspirational love stories	Yellow Roses is an anthology of Christian romances set in 19th century Texas.  Each novella is a stand-alone story of plucky heroines and Texas Ranger heroes. All four novellas are good, short reads, but two are outstanding: Serena's Strength and Saving Grace.<br />DiAnn Mills skillfully weaves a tender romance between Serena Talbot and Chet Wilkinson while portraying their spiritual struggles in an unobtrusive, believable way in SERENA'S STRENGTH. Her historical and cultural accuracy blends an engaging story line and an authentic narrative of life as Texas Ranger in the developing Republic of Texas.  <br />Kathleen Y'Barbo narrates the story of a tenacious Texas Ranger widow, Grace Delaney who struggles to keep her home and family together and Jedadiah Harte, ex-Texas Ranger turned preacher in SAVING GRACE. Their spiritual journey with God and to each other is a well crafted, uplifting read. <br />While all four are well-written and wholesome romantic stories, I'm sure you'll want to read other titles by both DiAnn Mills and Kathleen Y'Barbo.	2002-01-05
US	50320759	R1SGNW39GMINWS	0515131741	40814111	Lost and Found	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A unique Krentz offering	What I liked most about this Jayne Ann Krentz book is that Cady Briggs and Mack Easton were not typical JAK hero/heroines, yet they were believable, multi-dimensional characters. Mack: dad to a college age daughter and widower who mourns his lost companion while recognizing his needs to be a lover/mate/companion again; Cady: who fears becoming her Aunt Vesta and yearns for children before her biological clock stops. Both are engaging characters that you can quickly relate with. Her well-fleshed out secondary characters add depth and poignancy to the storyline.<br />Realities of mature h/h, single parenthood, and complicated family relationships are well portrayed with touches of humorous insight. I think romance purists will miss the usual trademark JAK sensual tension between Cady and Mack, but overall character development is quite strong and the zingy Krentz dialogue moves the story along. <br />Avid mystery fans may figure out \\"who dunnit\\", but I think JAK has done a superb plotting job with many believable villains and interesting twists. The emphasis here isn't on guess-who-dunnit nail-biting suspense, but compelling characters who draw you into their world.<br />It's a good read with a good storyline even if a bit off the usual JAK tracks.	2002-01-05
US	50320759	R2IZ9UO0RV4G2F	0553574116	270984394	Wicked Widow (Vanza)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fun, easy-to-read tale for the Regency fan!	Jayne Anne Krentz writing as Amanda Quick has moved her distinct contemporary writing style into the realm of the gothic regency with Wicked Widow. <br />The main characters, Artemas Hunt and Madeline Deveridge, are delightful and quickly capture your heart.  Lively dialogue snaps back and forth between the two as each attends to his/her personal agenda while combining efforts to unveil the ghost who is stalking the Wicked Widow, Madeline, and the Vanza Book of Secrets.  All the while, they fight their growing attraction to each other.<br />Her superb, evocative word pictures of the gothic regency era paint the perfect setting in the reader's mind.  True, the references to the Vanzagarian Society are at times overwhelming, but its representation is accurate for the period.  That's what you did in the early 1800's! Such fixations have been replaced by things like Internet surfing, TV, movies, etc. in the 21st century.<br />The engaging personalities of her secondary characters add yet another level of charm to the story.  Short John, the street urchin spy; Latimer, the bodyguard coachman; Aunt Bernice, herbalist extraordinaire; Henry Leggett, Artemas's solicitor and strategist.  Madeline's dead husband, Renwick, whom she is rumored to have murdered. Catherine, Artemas's lover, who was murdered in a prank by rakes of the ton.  Even those rakes against whom Artemas now seeks revenge.  All these believable characters and their interaction draw you easily into the storyline.  The captivating plot moves smoothly with its twists, turns, and subtle humor until Madeline and Artemas solve the mysteries and love brings them together. <BR> <BR>Wicked Widow is an enchanting regency love story that will stay with you long after the final page.	2001-10-26
US	50320759	R27X9LK3W4ZLB	1551668300	377209543	16 Lighthouse Road (Cedar Cove, Book 1)	Books	4	79	80	N	N	Good read, but leaves you wanting more!	16 Lighthouse Road is a unique compilation of stories about friends and acquaintances of Olivia Lockhart, Family Court judge, in the Pacific Northwest town of Cedar Cove, Washington.  With her usual writing skill, Debbie Macomber takes chords of real life circumstances (divorce, a child's death, alcoholism, strained familial relationships, disappearing spouses, and military service separation) and entwines them with love, hope, and reconciliation.  Unfortunately, all of them can't be fully developed in one 377 page paperback.<br />Macomber paints wonderful and evocative word pictures of the Washington landscape and the personalities of her characters.  The dialogue and honest interaction of the characters draws you immediately into the storylines and keeps you reading in spite of the fragmented structure of the book.<br />Ian and Cecilia Randall, the young newlyweds struggling with the death of a child and separation because of his Navy career, appear in her courtroom.  Jack Griffin, newly arrived editor of the Cedar Cove Chronicle, and love interest.  Her busybody mother Charlotte Jefferson, who collects recipes at funeral wake.  Tom Harding, stoke victim and mysterious new resident of Cedar Cove Convalescent Home, who gives a key to her mother.  Grace Sherman, the best friend whose husband keeps disappearing; and Justine, her daughter, in a relationship with a man twenty years her senior.  All endearing characters that capture your heart.<br />Switches between the stories and her believable, engaging characters will keep you turning the pages to see how each saga ends, but you do long to spend more time with them.  Or, perhaps re-visit with them in a sequel.  After all, we never do learn what happened to Grace's husband!	2001-10-26
US	50320759	R2LQTJXYBLISS	0380779625	452779165	Keegan's Lady	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A great Historical romance!	In Keegan's Lady, Catherine Anderson creates powerful story of love's ultimate triumph in a marriage of convenience.  With the backstory of rape and revenge driving two very individual lovers, she creates an emotionally charged and poignant book in a 19th century historical setting.  Her characters are quite human, with the imperfections that make the story and characters all the more believable. <br />Ace Keegan, an archetype alpha male, is fearless, dominating, and protective.  His quick temper and impatience damages the reputation of his enemy's daughter when she interrupts his attempt to avenge his stepfather's murder.  His strong sense of honor makes amends by marrying the flame-haired Caitlin O'Shannessy.<br />Ace quickly finds that Caitlin is fearful of all men except her younger brother because of her father's abuse and a brutal rape.  Tension between the two lovers builds as Ace patiently nurtures Caitlin through her debilitating fears.  Finally, the proud spirit burning within the damaged heart of Caitlin is able to conquer those phobias and learn to love.<br />As always, Catherine Anderson laces together a story of secrets and mystery, with tender romance and justice in an unfair world.  Keegan's Lady written in 1996 remains an irresistible love story and a must read for any romance fan!	2001-10-17
US	50320759	R306Z8A2MMJVTL	0380799383	424827136	Seventh Heaven	Books	5	19	23	N	N	A compelling love story!	7th Heaven is another one of Catherine Anderson's emotionally charged love stories set in authentic, real world circumstances. <br />The main characters of this book, Joe Lakota and Marilee Nelson, reminded me of Ace Keegan and Caitlin O'Shannessy, the main characters in Anderson's historical novel, Keegan's Lady.  Joe, like Ace, is the epitome of the alpha male: strong, dominating, quick-tempered, and protective of his dependents.  Marilee, like Caitlin, struggles with the trauma of her past. Two very human individuals with imperfections that make their story all the more believable.<br />High school sweethearts ten years before, Joe, a famous professional football player, and Marilee, an agoraphobic children's book writer/author, struggle to find their way back together.  After a bitter divorce, he's returned to his small hometown of Laurel Creek, Oregon, with his son Zachary, who needs care for his PTSD. Circumstances develop that lead Joe and Marilee into a marriage of convenience to save Zachary from being returned to the custody of Joe's abusive ex-wife. <br />Joe immediately sees a similar behavior pattern in his son and new wife, Marilee -- both use psychological barriers to keep the world away.  Patiently Joe nurtures them.<br />When Joe is arrested for murdering one of the men who raped Marilee ten years before, she must conquer her phobia to prove his innocent. <br />Catherine Anderson weaves together secrets, mystery, and real world issues with tender romance and justice in an unfair world through compelling characters that draw you into their world.  As you read 7th Heaven, you'll experience a roller coaster ride of emotions and a deep sense of rightness at the healing power of love. <br />A touching love story that will stay with you long after the final page.	2001-10-17
US	50320759	RDQV0HVRHOWJR	1551668467	451916604	The Deepest Water	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good,  intriguing read!	The Deepest Water is the first book by Kate Wilhelm I've read.  Mysteries with psychological twists and turns are not my usual read, but I have to say that Wilhelm's distinct style hooked me quickly and kept me turning the pages.<BR> <BR>When Jud Vickers, a noted novelist and Abby Conners' father, is murdered in his isolated cabin in the Oregon woods, Abby pieces together the clues to identity of his killer using the semi-autobiographical clues in his latest unpublished manuscript.  Reading through all his manuscripts, she uncovers layers about her father's life -and past.  Unraveling those layers, She discoveries that reveal deep secrets about her personal family history and Jud's friends, her marriage, and Jud's surprising legacy. <br />With delightful writing skill, Wilhelm paints wonderful and evocative word pictures of the Oregon landscape and the personalities of her characters: Jud's lady friend Willa, Felicia, an old family friend, detective Caldwell, and Abby's husband Brice.<br />The engaging plot moves quietly but smoothly.  The believable characters and their interaction draw you quickly into the scenes with their hints of plot twists and turns that lay ahead.  The conclusion draws the loose ends together with a sound, satisfying resolution. A good, intriguing read that you will enjoy!	2001-10-17
US	50320759	R1XY9A0RVV08NB	1551668378	189431499	Halfway To Heaven	Books	5	15	15	N	N	What an enchanting tale!	Halfway to Heaven is the first book by Susan Wiggs I've read.  What a treat!  Her distinct style hooked me quickly, transported me back to the world of 19th century Washington, D.C. politics, and kept me turning the pages. <br />The main characters, Abigail Cabot and Jamie Calhoun, immediately captured my heart because they were portrayed as two very human individuals whose imperfections make their story all the more believable.  Lively dialogue snaps back and forth as Jamie attempts to teach the very intelligent, unconventional Abigail the social graces.  All the while, they fight the growing awareness of their love for each other.<br />With a distinct style, Ms Wiggs paints wonderful and evocative word pictures of her well-researched historical period.  The detailed personalities of her engaging secondary characters add yet another level of depth.  Senator Franklin Cabot, the aloft father; Helena, the shallow, but not so shallow sister; Professor Rowan, the neighborly nutty professor and object of Helena's desire; Lt. Boyd Butler, the vice president's son and Abigail's unrequited love interest; and Princess Layla, the woman who destroyed Jamie's heart. <br />The captivating plot moves smoothly with humor.  Her believable characters and their interaction draw you into the scenes with their hints of the plot twists and turns that lay ahead.  The conclusion draws Jamie and Abigail's story together with a satisfying resolution and the author even promises a follow-up of Helena's story.  <br />Halfway to Heaven is an enchanting love story that will stay with you long after the final page.	2001-10-17
US	50320759	R1X42CQ4IHUPZT	0515128600	945780570	The Edge (An FBI Thriller)	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Fast paced plot and unique writing style	I read The Edge out of sequence, that is, after I finished reading the other books in Catherine Coulter's FBI series.  I found it an enjoyable read, but totally different than the others in the series.  <BR><br />The plot, based on a mind-altering and libido stimulating drug and missing persons, is fast-paced.  There's even a touch of supernatural with the telepathic link between Mac and his sister Jilly.  All these elements combine to keep you reading.<BR><br />Coulter's descriptions of the different settings are vivid.  You'll find yourself squirming at some of the encounters Mac and Laurie have with the native animal life in the Rain Forest. <BR><br />The 1st person male viewpoint is unique and, as you can tell from the other reviews, troubling for most readers.  Because The Edge is not 3rd person POV, the characters appear to lack depth.  You only get to view what's happening from Mac's viewpoint.  I think that's why most reader found it more difficult to become absorbed.  <BR><br />The Edge seemed to focus on suspense and leave out the hint of romance that you find in the other books of the series.  The usual romance elements and sexual tension between Mac and Laurie weren't obvious.  Even Dillon and Sherlock didn't come across as well in The Edge as they have in the other books.<BR><br />Not what we are used to from Ms Coulter, but the plot and the unique writing style make it an entertaining and interesting read.  Worth the read for Catherine Coulter fans!	2001-09-05
US	50320759	R2CLGENXC1665	1551667975	813080786	South Of Sanity (Hannah Garvey Mysteries #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A refresing fun read!	Suzan Ledbetter's South of Sanity is a delightful, easy read.  The characters are charming: a sexy Sheriff David Hendrickson, quirky old-agers and townspeople, wacky senior citizen sleuths IdaClare and Delbert, and Hannah Garvey, a 40-something advertising agency dynamo who leaves Chicago's hustle and bustle to manage Valhalla Springs, an exclusive retirement community in the Missouri Ozarks.  Even the pets are memorable, a mutt named Malcolm and a rottweiler named Rambo.  <br />The dialogue's incredible with the vivid mental pictures it evokes.  Some of the scenes will have you laughing out loud. The prose can sometimes require a re-read because its breeziness is confusing, but it's saucy and funny.  <br />The mystery plot's good with a not-too-obvious twist.  The romantic tense great!  The rich blend of humor, romance, mystery, and danger with the author's sense of humor provides the reader with non-stop reading enjoyment.<BR><br />Can't wait to read East of Peculiar, the first of the series, and North of Clever, the sequel, when it comes out.  Suzan Ledbetter has me hooked on this series.  Her style is fast, refreshing, and hilariously funny. Great entertainment!	2001-09-05
US	50320759	R2CTDZGMGH2G6E	0310231051	716651523	Patterns of Love (Coming to America, Book 2)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Touching story, great read	PATTERNS OF LOVE is book two in Robin Hatcher's Coming to America series. The 2001 revision of the 1999 RITA Award book portrays the life of Swedish immigrant Inga Linberg and Dirk Bridger, an Iowa dairy farmer, with the added insight of their spiritual journey with God. <br /> Because of his strong sense of responsibility, Dirk Bridger has abandoned his dreams of world travel and adventure to settle in Uppsala, Iowa, as the guardian of his two orphaned nieces and his deceased brother's dairy farm. Pragmatically, he struggles with despair over his lost dream and the monotonousness of life on the farm. Dirk's sure God if He even exists, has abandoned him. <br /> Inga, the oldest daughter of a Lutheran minister, is resigned to God's plan for her life as quilt artist and capable assistant in her father's ministry. Unlike her four sisters, Inga is neither attractive nor flirtatious and completely content until Dirk arrives at the parsonage to ask her father's help in finding someone to assist him in caring for the two children and his ailing mother. Inga agrees to become his live-in housekeeper and quickly brings order and love to the Bridger household. Personally, she grows discontent with her life. As time goes by, Dirk finds himself attracted to the tall, willowy Swedish immigrant that his mom and nieces have come to love. When Dirk's mother dies, proprietary morals of the period prohibit Inga from continuing in her role as live-in housekeeper. Dirk offers Inga a marriage contract to be terminated when his nieces are older. When Inga agrees, their lives are forever changed. <br /> Robin Hatcher skillfully weaves a tender romance between Inga and Dirk while portraying their spiritual struggles in an unobtrusive, believable way. Her historical and cultural accuracy blends an engaging story line with Swedish heritage in an authentic narrative of life in 19th century America. <br /> Through Inga's correspondence with her friends from the voyage to America sprinkled throughout the story, the reader sees glimpses of the main characters from the other books in the Coming to America series. After reading about Dirk and Inga, I'm sure you'll want to read their stories too!	2001-08-24
US	50320759	R270MX9WCQ0W1S	1578561523	477624312	The Shepherd's Voice	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great reading--Wonderful storyline!	Robin Hatcher's THE SHEPHERD'S VOICE is a sober portrayal of Depression era realities with spiritual truths entwined through her well-developed characters. <br />Akira Macauley believes God answered her prayer for hired help on the sheep ranch her grandfather has left her in Ransom, Idaho, when she finds a penniless vagabond collapsed on the road.  With trust in that belief, she hauls him back to the ranch and helps him to regain not only his health, but also his lost faith. The unfolding story of Gabe's tainted past, his life as a convicted murderer, and his struggle to regain his lost faith holds the reader captive.  The plot twists and turns test the faith of both Akira and Gabriel and challenge their growing relationship while presenting, with brutal authenticity, a picture of life during Depression years.   <br />Hatcher builds the romantic relationship between Akira and Gabe Talmadge's through worldly realities to a credible happily-ever-after ending in a way that every romance reader will find endearing.  Some readers may be discomforted by Robin's strong presentation of Akira Macauley's faith or Gabe's struggle to regain a relationship with God, but her genuine warmth and distinctive writing style make that faith a believable, integral part of their story.  Your heart cannot help but be touched by the romance, the spiritual truths, and historical setting.  After reading The Shepherd's Voice, you'll understand why this author has received so many writing awards.	2001-08-20
US	50320759	RS3N4KA54L9NM	0515130966	501935513	Riptide (An FBI Thriller)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Riptide Plot Twists Keep You Reading!	Riptide, fifth of the FBI series, is good contemporary suspense with an original plot full of vivid characters, unexpected twists, and satisfyingly unpredictable denouements.  The riptide currents of Coulter's plot keep the reader off balance, engrossed, and breathless until the end. <br /> Becca Matlock receives increasingly intimidating phone calls from a menacing stalker who identifies himself as &quot;your boyfriend&quot; and threatens to kill her boss, the governor of New York.  The police don't believe her, even after the stalker kills a homeless woman.  When her mother dies of cancer and the governor is actually shot, Becca flees New York City and her job as a senior speechwriter for the governor.  Disguising her appearance, she escaping to Riptide, a small town in Maine, for sanctuary, but soon finds herself at even greater risk when a skeleton falls from her basement wall during a storm and brings the unwanted attention of the local authorities.  In Riptide, she is reunited with Tyler McBride, her old college friend, and confides in him.   <br />   Then Adam Carruthers, a mysterious, handsome man, appears to be her &quot;guardian angel&quot; protector.  As Becca and Adam work to puzzle out the stalker's motives, secrets about Becca's past, like a father she has long believed dead, are revealed.  When Becca and Adam realize who their enemy is, Dillon, Sherlock, and her husband Savich from Coulter's previous novels join forces with them to help stop the stalker's threats. <br /><br />When Regency novelist Catherine Coulter moved to suspense a few years back, as a loyal fan I followed her.  Riptide lacks deep romantic development between Adam and Becca, but the suspenseful twists made up for it.  An enjoyable recreational read for anyone, Coulter fans or not!	2001-08-13
US	50320759	R2WOVV90CQH6UP	0380789892	948054774	Midnight in Ruby Bayou (St. Kilda Consulting)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Great Lowell Read	Midnight in Ruby Bayou continues the saga of the Donovan family, presented in Amber Beach (1997) and Jade Island (1998).  Faith Donovan, jewelry designer, has created a necklace containing $1 million in rubies which, it turns out have dubious ownership. Her plan is to exhibit the necklace at a jewelry show in Savannah, Georgia, before turning it over to the owners, the Montegeau family, at the wedding of Jeff Montegeau, family son, and Faiths pregnant pal, Mel.  Owen Walker, ruby expert employed by Faiths brother, Archer Donovan, is called upon to guard the necklace when Archer insures the rubies in transit.  Mysterious accidents begin shadowing the designer as bloodthirsty Russian Mafia and local mobster thugs, attempt to steal the jewels.  Walker, recovering from injures suffered in Afghanistan while seeking rubies for the Donovan family, becomes Faiths capable bodyguard.  Local FBI agents add their twists as they follow Walker and Faith. <br />  The plot thickens at Ruby Bayou, ancestral home of the Montegeau family, when Lowell introduces Jeff's father, Davis, a descendant of pirates and owner of a missing Blessing Chest reported to hold a fortune in gems, Davis sister Tiga, and the family hound Boomer.  Montegeaus dark secrets of the past and present begin unfolding and deranged fantasy world of Aunt Tiga offers clues to why the bad guys are after Faith and the secret of the long-lost Blessing Chest.  Even CIA agent April Joy from the other books reappears to add spice to the tale. Through clever banter and the unmistakable sexual tension spiral that Lowell is so well known for, the romantic attraction between Walker and Faith merges into trust and commitment as each overcomes their fear of loving someone again.  Lowell builds one of her best male characters in Owen Walker causing Faith Donovans character, through well defined, to pale in comparison.    The fascinating, informative descriptions of exquisite ruby qualities and lessons on the rubytrade skillfully blend through the story line.<br /> Im a long time Elizabeth Lowell fan and I found Midnight in Ruby Bayou a completely entertaining read that kept me engrossed in both the relationships between the characters and the outcome of the plot.  Reading the other books in the Donovan series probably adds to the enjoyment of this installment because you have all the previous Donovan family character background.  However, for a completely entertaining read, this romantically spiced mystery is quite enjoyable on its own.  If you havent read the other books in the series, you probably will once you finish this one!	2001-08-01
US	50320759	R1R7CPERK33OZU	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Left Behind:  Begin a Journey	The books of this fictionalized end-of-time series about people who are &quot;left behind&quot; after the Rapture of the church and must endure the Tribulation and other prophetic events foretold in Revelation before Christ's return to Earth are compellingly hard to put down.  Left Behind, written in the mid-nineties, is the first of the apocalyptic series. <br />In Left Behind we meet Rayford Steele, pilot, and his flight attendant, Hattie Durham.  When Steele puts the plane on autopilot and goes to visit Hattie, he finds some passengers aboard the Boeing 747 are missing.  All that remains are rumpled piles of clothing, pieces of jewelry, fillings, surgical pins, and the like.  In his investigation, he quickly discovers that the disappearances are worldwide. People around the world have mysteriously disappeared and theories about why surface -- terrorists, UFOs, aliens from another planet.  With the Rapture of the Saints, terror and chaos reign.  Steele teams up with Buck Williams, a hot shot young newshound, to investigate exactly what has happened to their loved ones.  Nicolae Carpathia also makes his appearance as he begins his rise to establish a one-world government, soothe the fears, and unite the world.  For those left behind, the apocalypse has just begun.<br />   The book's words give reality and substance to the familiar words and themes of Revelation.  Sharing the authors' premillennial view, I have no problem with the theological presentation of the series as others do.  These books are written for entertainment, not as eschatology treatise.  They are easy to read with suspenseful action and character development that progresses through the series.<br />  Jenkins and LaHaye purposed to write &quot;...the first fictional portrayal of events that are true to the literal interpretation of Bible prophecy.&quot;  I believe they accomplished that goal and provide a truly great wake up call to their readers to examine their own beliefs.	2001-02-01
US	50320759	R28IBQ9W50J61H	0842332251	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind #8)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Mark: Spiritual truth, scary reality as the Saga goes on	After three days of lying in state, Nicolae Carpathia rises from the dead and &quot;the bloodiest season in the history of the world,&quot; the final 3 1/2 years of the Tribulation, begins to unfurl in all their gore.  Followers of the antichrist are branded by a loyalty mark on their right hands or their foreheads, then &quot;vaccinated&quot; with a personal information biochip.  Those who refuse the mark take a one-way trip to the &quot;loyalty enforcement facilitator,&quot; the guillotine. <br />The Tribulation Force now positioned in their new safe house, know The Second Coming of Christ is only three-and-one-half years away.  Facing tragic losses and terror, believers find comfort in Tsion Ben-Judah's daily newsletter.  With a cyberaudience of more than a billion, Tsion provides the only assurance and warning:  &quot;The God who calls you to the ultimate sacrifice will also give you the power to endure it.&quot;<br />Tribulation Force moles inside the palace in New Babylon face personal tragedies and new dangers as they make preparations to counter the overt attack Carpathia plans on the Judah-ites. The Tribulation Force struggles to survive in the center of these new terrors, the death of more loved ones and some unexpected twists in plans.  Can they hang on through The Great Tribulation? <br />The Mark: The Beast Rules the World is the eighth installment of the Left Behind series.  Jenkins portrayal of Biblical prophecy about the mark of the Beast and all its reality is scary and factual to the theological presentation began in book one.  Read as fiction, it is an action-packed thriller filled with apocalyptic mayhem, quirky humor, and addicting plot twists.  Read as a prophetic interpretation of the end times of Biblical prophecy, it causes self-reflection about personal beliefs.  The mysterious addicting power of the story continues to outweigh the quality of its writing and marketing thrust.   The books are compellingly hard to put down.  Because of theircliff hanger endings, I find myself anxious to read the next episode to see how the Tribulation Force fares even though I know how the story will end!	2001-02-01
US	50320759	R2GKNKOY1CJLNQ	0842329137	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind, Book 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Tribulation Force:  Building the players	In this second book of the series, the main characters come to believe that their loved ones have been raptured and band together as they struggle to embrace God's truth for themselves.  Forming the Tribulation Force, Steele and Williams, along with Rayford's daughter Chloe and their pastor Bruce Barnes, meet to study the Bible, pray and support one another in their uncertainty.  They realize Nicolae Carpathia is the prophesied Antichrist of Revelation as they watch him centralize his power.  As leader of the United Nations, he signs a peace treaty with Israel, and lures the nations of the earth to form one global village.  Pilot Rayford Steele and journalist Cameron (&quot;Buck&quot;) Williams find themselves employees of Carpathia and hide their faith in Jesus so that they can witness unhampered.  Using their positions, they secretly fight against the Antichrist.  Judgments of God begin to fall on the earth, the prophesied two witness begin their ministry, and the tribulation force fights not only to stay alive, but battle the forces of evil in the strength of their budding, newborn faith.<br /> In The Tribulation Force, the relationships between Rayford, Buck, Chloe, and Bruce become much more defined and the battle against evil begins in earnest.  A new character is added to the force - Amanda who becomes Rayford's fiancée.  <br />Although you may be unfamiliar with, or not agree with, the prophetic outline LaHaye and Jenkins present, you must admit to doing some self-examination and comparison to current events after you read these books.  Tribulation Force is not filled with fast action, but it does a good job of segwaying to the third book.	2001-02-01
US	50320759	R27R1QD1YD9DP	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Nicolae: a scary antichrist	Nicolae is the third book of the Left Behind series.  Thoughts of the Antichrist have always sent a shiver through Christians and non-Christians like.  Reading about Nicolae Carpathia, presented as the Antichrist by Jerry Jenkins, will bring tremors!  <br />In the continuing saga, Nicolae garners his power, unifying political states to form &quot;Global Community&quot; with himself as grand potentate.  The media are consolidated into &quot;Global Community Network,&quot; &quot;Global Weekly&quot; and religions are united as &quot;Enigma Babylon One World Faith.&quot;  As the Tribulation moves toward the midpoint of the seven years, the Tribulation Force continues their struggle to survive and protect their families in the midst of global war and destruction.  Knowing Nicolae to be the Antichrist prophesied in the Bible, it comes as no great revelation that this man, who presented himself as a charming and benevolent leader is instead a ruthless and cruel tyrant, manipulating people and events to serve his own evil ends. <br />The fulfillment of John's prophecy of the seven seals as recorded in the book of Revelation is realistically described.  The &quot;left behind&quot; group recognizes that they are now facing the sixth seal, the great earthquake known as &quot;the wrath of the lamb.&quot;  Who survives?  How?  What does Nicolae have in mind for the world?  The cliffhanger ending makes you anxious to read the next episode to see how the Tribulation Force fares although you may know how the story will end!<br /> The action and suspense of this third book are mesmerizing as well as entertaining.  The &quot;evil one&quot; is portrayed magnificently.  The members of the Tribulation Force become truly identifiable as real people.	2001-02-01
US	50320759	RYGGCWJZRPG90	0842329269	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind No. 5)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Real Thriller	In this fifth book, God's Judgment continues to pound the earth and the faithful band of believers are forced underground when Global Community Potentate Nicolae Carpathia declares them international fugitives.  Hattie Durham, the former airline attendant and mistress of the antichrist, ponders what to do about the approaching birth of her illegitimate child.  Rayford Steele continues to pilot Carpathia's plane, and questions the mounting evidence that his late wife, Amanda, may have been a false believer. Buck and his wife Chloe debate whether to have a child when the future of the world is so uncertain.   Believers increasingly rely upon the Internet for underground communication and for following what's happening.  Many contemplate violence as a way of combating the forces of evil that are overtaking the world.  They gather in Jerusalem for the Meeting of Witnesses and showdown with Nicolae Carpathia.  They gain a little bit of time to resolve their respective personal crises when demon locusts are dispatched as a divine plague to attack those who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads.<br />Apollyon is a thriller that will keep you riveted until the last page.  It is one of the better written of the series.  One can't help but feel emotionally involved with Buck, Chloe, and Rayford and the events they are experiencing ... the excitement at the stadium, the decisions of faith made, and the agony of the non-believers enduring the bites of the locust.  An exhilarating read that will keep you in suspense as it realistically characterizes the horrors of the tribulation.	2001-02-01
US	50320759	RKZEF6LQ72K86	0842329277	499654908	Assassins: Assignment Jerusalem, Target AntiChrist (The Left Behind Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Assassins:  Playing God	Assassins continues the saga of those left behind after the Rapture of the church as four murders foretold in Scripture unfurl.  Head of Enigma Babylon One World is in jeopardy, the two witnesses at the Wailing Wall and even antichrist is prophesied to suffer a lethal head wound. Carpathia works to secure his hold on the world system and become supreme ruler of the world, claiming to be God.   Tribulation Force members begin to question, Is it right to kill Satan's hit man to help God's work?  While struggling for God's answer, Rayford Steele develops a plan to assassinate Antichrist Nicolae Carpathia.  Others vie for the same &quot;privilege&quot; of fulfilling the prophecy that the Antichrist himself is to suffer a lethal head wound. Buck Williams through his cyberspace magazine The Truth anonymously refutes Carpathia's claims and preaches to the masses of believers and converts.  All the believers in the safe house fear their secret &quot;safe house&quot; location has been compromised and suspect Carparthia's former mistress, Hattie. <br />This book allows us to agonize with familiar characters, cheer for new believers, mourn the lost of tribulation saints and marvel at the imaginative, yet totally believable, futuristic thinking of the authors.  Jenkin's writing &quot;fleshes out&quot; the visions of St. John as found in the Bible.  The pace is good from opening pages until the cliffhanger scene when God unleashes yet another earth-shattering disaster.	2001-02-01
US	50320759	R376Q0W663GLSC	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Soul Harvest: Making choices!	In Soul Harvest, the world is recovering from the wrath of the Lamb -- a global earthquake in the 21st month of the Tribulation.  Nicolae Carpathia begins a worldwide rebuilding campaign and becomes enraged by an evangelistic effort resulting in the greatest harvest of souls the world has ever seen.  As more and more judgment prophecies are fulfilled, hardly any skeptics remain.  Even the enemies of God recognize whom they are fighting, and the world is compelled to take sides.<br />The reader follows Tribulation Force as they journey from Iraq to America, from six miles in the air to underground shelters, from desert sands to the bottom of the Tigris River, from hope to devastation.  While Rayford Steele and Buck Williams, earthquake survivors, search for their loved ones missing since before the earthquake, they find strength in Tsion Ben-Judah's spiritual leadership.   <br />This installment of the saga will keep your interest from start to finish.  Even though you may know what will happen next, the excitement of following the story development is not dulled.  Without divulging too much, plot twists and turns in Soul Harvest make for very entertaining reading!	2001-02-01
