US	50323648	R1RRKJU07YU4LP	1844134636	274006387	Mysteries in Eleusis: Aristotle Detective Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Best so far	Doody finally brings us to the end of the torturous sub-plot that has pervaded the last few novels. Namely, Stephanos' wedding to Philomena. It provides an excuse for our laconic sleuth to muse in a post-drunken wedding binge that someone might have chucked a sharp knife at him. In turn, this enables him, post-nuptials, to start to think about things other than the sorry state of his interior and exterior dcor, symposiums and solving the odd magpie inspired theft here and there that have not gripped our attention up to this point.   <br />Doody's slow inexorable plot style drags the unwilling reader along again so that by page two hundred or so of the paperback version we find ourselves wondering exactly what task Stephanos and Aristotle are being set by the author other than responding to a trumped-up charge of boundary poaching by the neighbour of his newly extended family. However, lurking furtively in the background is the murder of the helpful Sophilios and, also, Arhkias' disclaimer over the amount of drakhmai he lost in the incident. <br />Doody has Philomela express a desire to join the mysteries of Eleusis and this coincides with Aristotle's slave, for whom his affection grows daily. As the novel progresses we find ourselves bombarded with more and more problems and the clue to it all lies in exactly the fact there is an inundation. Stephanos' stumbles alarmingly through his Eleusian initiation, gets overly raucous in the Agora as he's accused of not fulfilling his previous nuptial agreements, finds himself on the receiving end of a knife thrower and a marble head a few times, up on his own tiles and generally harassed left right and centre as he tries to deal with a spurious land ownership charge by Lykon and locate missing children. <br />By the time we reach our denouement in a pottery shop where we get a quick rash of murders based on the fallings out of a criminal gang, Doody neatly ties up the thievery with Stephano's beleaguered life and we come away satisified that out of the murky randomness was actually a very clever plot. I have to say that I have found the Stephanos mysteries extremely laborious to plow through but this is by far the best so long as you keep gong past page two hundred. It'll be interesting to see if Stephanos continues to improve.	2005-10-12
US	50323648	R1Y4S7YE1S017F	0755305183	60218557	Enemies Of The Empire (Libertus Mystery of Roman Britain)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not Libertus' best outing	The seventh Libertus mystery from Rosemary Rowe has our aged sleuth paying a visit to Venta Silurium as part of his patron's entourage and promptly getting caught up in a hotbed of insurgency. He only manages to get involved when he sees a man whose funeral he attended earlier that month alive and well in the town's forum. An inquisitive chase through the town results in him being hopelessly lost, running into the town's leading madam and then being waylaid by some hot-headed youths who threaten to kill him as a spy of one of the local gangs. <br />All in all a case of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. <br />After enduring a night in the cells and a farcical trial where he is acquitted, Libertus and Marcus go on a trip into the nearby forest and end up with all their horses stolen, locating the body of the slave Promptillius and encountering a local set of Silurians who suspiciously protest undying love for all things Roman. Once our sleuth manages to sit down for five seconds he realises what is going on with the overly stupid Optio and Lyra, the madam, avoids being poisoned and brings the culprits to justice whilst Marcus chafes at the irritation of being delayed in his journey. <br />This is quite a weak effort from Rowe in the sense it just trundles amicably along with no real sense of murder thriller. The characters elicit little empathy, just irritation and Libertus is in danger of becoming overly obsequious. A little spine would be useful and he could learn from Cadfael.  <br />The series is an enjoyable addition to the ever increasing ancient murder mystery but Libertus is lightweight when compared to the likes of Marcus Covinus, Gordianus the Finder, Metellus the Younger being more at a level of Claudia Seferius. Worth reading for any fan of the genre. <br />	2005-09-23
US	50323648	R3S1DBG5YLYH2Y	1841492086	445759046	The Portable Door	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What really happens when the office closes for the night	The Portable Door opens with the two unlikeliest of clerk candidates landing a position at the  JW Wells company of 22 St Mary Axe. Our lead character, Paul Carpenter, is drifting through life with no particular family ties and his female interest, Sophie, is a hard-nosed, idealistic character whose outward treatment of people masks a reluctance to engage emotively. She's actually quite irritating and thankfully Holt packs her off to Hollywood in the sequel. <br />The novel concerns the first few months of the pair as they work for a company utterly unlike your usual one. This company is a conglomerate of magicians and enchanters, fey-folk and goblins who cheerfully look after the supernatural side of earth's life whilst making a tidy fortune on the side. <br />After spending weeks doing filing the truth is gradually revealed as they work for Mr Tanner scrying bauxite mines, then down in the cellars cataloguing miscellaneous items (usually from famous people), then Humphrey Wells, Van Spee, Suslowicz, Rick Wormtoter and Judy Castel'Bianco. Paul finds a portable door that allows him to travel through both time and space which he uses out of boredom, all the while trying to decide if he fancies Sophie or not. <br />Inevitably the door gets him in some trouble and he finds himself in a Schroedinger's room where two of the company personnel have been locked for ages. <br />After dealing with the ever persistent and seductive Mrs Tanner (goblin by night, voluptuous receptionist by day) he and Sophie end up foiling a century long office politics plot with the use of a somewhat more-than-meets-the-eye stapler and an irreversible love potion. <br />Having read Holt's historical novels (highly recommended to any fan of the genre) I decided to have a go through his more prolific fantasy pen and I have not come away disappointed. The only flaw in this opener was the character of Sophie but as she's gone in the next I'm cheerfully reading that at some pace. <br />It's brilliantly inventive, narrated at a careless speed that make the plot plausible  and cheerfully answers the question as to what actually goes on in the office once every human has left. Read it.	2005-09-01
US	50323648	R16IY8UFDMILZI	0007165048	584488838	The Language of Stones	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sparkling read	Oh, I thoroughly enjoyed this. Spied it quite by chance whilst browsing through a shop the other day with its catchy cover, bought it, sat down and read in two sessions. Quite a remarkable first novel. <br />Robert Carter's The Language of Stones is set in an alternative fifteenth century  England. One where a thirteen year old lad named Willard has his world rudely turned upside down on Beltine when a gandalf-esque character looms out of the darkness to claim his protege. This sorceror/warlock/wizard (Will is not sure what he is) goes by a multitude of names down the generations but is recognisable under more familiar pseudonyms as Jack O'Lantern or Merlyn , though know n throughout the novel Gwydion. The legend of King Arthur is reborn. <br />A forced march to the Wychwood dumps poor Will in the hands of Lord Strange with his boar's head for six months where the rebellious streak in the lad means he learns some mild naming magic and promptly nearly gets killed by a marsh hag whilst waiting for Willow, a girl of equal age that he has confused feelings for. Just in time Merlyn reappears to take Will with him as the land prepares for a coming war. A trip to meet King Hal and a last minute escape from the overly boorish Duke Edgar lands Will and Gwydion off the Irish coast whence they learn what they must do. Namely discover the battlestones that sit on the lorc lines. What follows is a coming of age for Will as he continues to prove his inheritance before ending up at Fotheringham castle under the guardianship of Duke Richard, pretender to the throne, training as a squire to the overly thuggish firstborn, Edward. Schroolroom fights and taunting later he finds himself grown to a young man, learning from the Wortmaster and struggling to deal with his feelings for Willow who has reappeared. <br />Gywdion returns and has fallen out of favour with the Duke after passing the exquisite diamond they found at Leir's tomb to Queen Mag. War is coming and he takes Will in a desperate attempt to locate the Doomstone, that evil-harbouring piece of granite that is driving the Realm towards War. After finding the lesser Plague stone and discovering more about his inner self Gwydion and Will find themselves at Badon Hill as Duke Richard prepares to assault the town harbouring King Hal, Duke Edgar and the Queen. A short nasty fight finds many prophecies fulfilled and Will has his own sorcerous battle at the heart of the Sightless Ones with the Doomstone cover of St Swythyn's tomb before returning to his own Shire will he enemies defeated but not vanquished. <br />What is sparkling about Carter is that here is clearly an author well versed in English and Celtic myth as he transcribes many names, places and myths into his own versions that are immediately recognisable to the knowledgeable reader. His finest effort is Gwydion's reference to Iuliu the Seer (or Julius Caesar to the historian) but the novel is littered with altered names and celtic mythology that seeks to demonstrate how easy it is to twist the facts by word of mouth. The lengthy author's note at the end goes into some detail about the parallels he draws with British geography and the times that preclude the Wars of the Roses. Carter is a fine author and the sequel to this opener is one novel I'll definitely be shelling out the extra for the hardback version as soon as it is out in May. <br />	2005-09-01
US	50323648	RFKYAN3BEIOKP	0441012450	420015712	The Seven Hills	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Definitely needs Decius Quintus Caecilius the Younger	JMR's second installment of his alternative history of the Roman Republic unfortunately tends to wander off into the hot and humid distance with no discernable oasis in sight. Much is given over to Titus Norbanus' anabasis and growing ego-centricity whilst Scipio pouts and postures in Alexandria playing with his new-fangled toys generated by the archimedian school.  <br />This novel is that lull before the third explosive finale as the two main protagonists cross their personal rubicons and build their military and political might using the new empire as a personal plaything. Scipio spends all his time with Selene angling for the Egyptian army and navy to become his personal troops on a march on Carthage. Meanwhile, Titus Norbanus marches up towards Greece conquering all and defeating two Carthaginian armies who are attempting their own alpine crossing (minus elephants). The only real difference between the two is one possesses humility, the other delusions of grandeur. You can see where JMR is heading. <br />You get the impression that JMR came up with a good `what if' in the first novel and took it on marvelous strides off into an alternative history where Carthage wasn't sown with salt and Rome got sent north into the Germanic forests. Once he'd reestablished the re-emergence of Rome then it was a case of what to do and we end up with a variant of Caesar and Pompey, or Octavius and Anthony as they both head to Egypt to fall in with their own Cleopatra and start the descent towards imperialism whilst an increasingly aging and befuddled Senate protests in the background. The characterization is neither good nor bad, the personalities plausible copies of the reality that was Rome. The plot meanders along as though the author is looking for his milestones and you get the impression this novel is purely filler for his handling of Rome's latent ascendancy in the Mediterranean with the personal battle between Scipio and Norbanus providing a side amusement. <br />It's not as good as the first and the series definitely needs Decius Quintus Caecilius the Younger.	2005-08-25
US	50323648	RAGX9FX19BWPJ	0091898196	529226573	Boudica	Books	3	22	23	N	N	Fantastical effort	I put this `groundbreaking biography of the True Warrior Queen' (if you believe the publishing headline) down thankful I had only borrowed it from a library. The problem with this latest effort to investigate the reality of one of Britain's most famous female leaders is that is it emotionally biased. A fact cheerfully admitted by the author in the introduction where her search for \\"edgier role models\\" meant \\"a warrior queen called Boudicea had a particular resonance with a young impressionable child on the lookout for strong and feisty mentors\\" (page 6). Alarm bells began to go off as I progressed through the introduction that this was a biography seeking to confirm the heroic fantasy figure myth of Boudica rather than provide a somewhat drier, dispassionate account of one of Britain's most enduring legacies. A quote on the jacket from a periodical stated \\"The book's principle achievement is the humanizing of a legend\\". I confess I found it did precisely the opposite. <br />There is no denying the author's passion for the subject but it proves detrimental in the novel's presentation and factual outlay. You can easily get swept along by Collingridge's excitement as she trots round the halls of academia and various parts of the British landscape but the danger is that the presentation of `facts' become believable when there is in fact no firm foundation. A good example of this comes on page 159 where the author chooses to take the meagre facts of the death of Lindow Man and create some kind of heady ritualistic death scene based on pure fantasy.  This kind of emotive scene setting continues throughout, from the opening chapters that skim rather loosely through Roman history till half way through when we get a screenplay description of her final battle. Phrases like: \\"The clash, when it came, was electric - a fusion of light, sound and white hot energy as the leading soldiers cut a gash through the mass of British warriors, dividing them, annihilating them\\" (page 242)will make the academic reader pause somewhat. <br />So, having felt I was sitting through a film rather than a historical biography, it was somewhat better to get to the second half  of the work where the author does offer a new set of interesting analysis on Boudica's impact on Britain's cultural history from Milton to Celtomania, Gray and then Queen Victoria and Margaret Thatcher. Indeed, the second part of the work does make it worth reading and anyone with knowledge of Boudica would do well to actually start at chapter 15.  <br />This is a somewhat unique biography in that the passion of the author for the subject is detailed up front and the reader is swept along in a bright-eyed way . Unfortunately, only someone who has studied the period in some detail will recognise the constant stream of `facts' that aren't quite right or aren't fully explored. As such it is a good starter biography for pre-graduate or interested readers but people wishing to delve more deeply into the history of the period and Boudica herself will have to go elsewhere for that drier historical analysis that would be required. I suspect most of my disappointment came from the jacket statements that set an expectation that wasn't met and personal knowledge of the period and the subject meant inconsistency and emotive language was easily spottable, all of which meant the inevitable conclusion that the work confirms the fantastical nature of our perception of Boudica rather than ending up with a quiet respect for the reality of what this legendary warrior queen achieved for her people and subsequent generations.	2005-08-05
US	50323648	RQP5NUWO9D141	0316726400	985626672	The Mark of a Murderer (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Mark of a quality author	Pseudonymal Susanna Gregory launches us into her eleventh Matthew Bartholomew mystery with alacrity and yet again confounds her seasoned reader with a darkly convoluted tale that weaves in the fear of a rabid animal and the potential for riot with head scratching enigma. Gregory opens her prologue during a Scholastica Day riot in Oxford that leaves sity scholars dead and twice as many townspeople. All instigated by the dark monk. <br />Moving forward some months we find ourselves at Michaelhouse where Matthew is stealing out nightly to Mathilde's house and not being very inconspicuous about it. Being the gossip of the town doesn't sit well with our reflective sleuth and we quickly find Michael dragging him off to Merton Hall to investigate the stabbing of an Oxford scholar, Chesterfelde, one of a party of Oxford merchants and scholars who have left Oxford for a variety of reasons. Our suspect list builds quickly as Matthew discovers the real cause of death is a slashed wrist. In Michael's sights are Daurant (Matthew's Oxford teacher, a poppy juice addict), Polmorva (Matthew's sworn enemy from his Oxford days) and Spryngheuse (one of the monks involved in the early fight in Oxford that led to the riot). Aside from Chesterfelde, there was also Okehamptone who appears to have died from a fever en route. Accompanying them are three Oxford merchants, Wormynghalle, a tanner, Abergavenny, a burgess and Eu the spicer each tasked by Joan Goneral to find the murderer of her husband during the riots. His dying breath condemned a Cambridge scholar and they have come to seek his assailant. Throw into the mix the Merton Hall residents of Eudo, a tenant, and Boltone, bailiff of Merton Hall together with the impending visit of archbishop Islip to potentially found a new college and you have a heady brew of mystery in a political tinderbox. <br />Woven into the tale is King's Hall whose inhabitants of Wolfe, Norton, Hamescotes and Wormynghalle all take major supporting roles alongside the stationer Weasenham and his Langelee-loving wife, Alyce. The other Cambridge physicians take a large role here, particularly with Rougham having been attacked by the mysterious wolf and Clippesby is given a greater starring role as he acts as a useful witness whose mildly insane method of reporting confounds and exasperates us all. <br />By the end the riot is staved off, hell hath no fury like a woman denied her right to study and Matthew intends to marry Mathilde. It ends on a slightly sour note as our hero trots off to propose whilst she's heading out of the gate thinking he'll never get round to it. I do hope Gregory sorts it out as she's created a character that any fan of the series will have invested an emotional interest in plus it'll be interesting to see how she can keep them together and not have Matt renounce his career.  <br />We'll see.  <br />What makes Gregory all the more plausible is the rich historical note where she details that the major events really occurred and characters are all based on real personages. It makes it even more impressive. <br />This is one author at the height of her literary powers and needs far more exposure to the public than she gets at the moment. <br />Read it.	2005-07-29
US	50323648	R1RZOV17SQEDIR	0316860026	867362683	The Conscience of the King: Henry Gresham and the Shakespeare Conspiracy	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable swashbuckling	The second Henry Gresham mystery takes us once more in the the very beginnings of the Stuart dynasty, yet some seven years later on from `A Desperate Remedy'. Sir Gresham is now happily married to Jane, they have two children and the faithful Mannion remains at our erstwhile hero's side. Living in The House which is portrayed in the manner of every englishman's home is his castle, Gresham has become the early 007. Debonair, gifted, physically beautiful, attractive, intelligent and comanding instant love ande respect in his friends and fear in his enemies, all he lacks is the fast cars. <br />As this is seventeenth century London he can't have them. Still we are subjected to a `high-speed' coach chase and several river boat esacapades in his second adventure. <br />We are reintroduced to a pox-ridden Kit Marlowe (who's taken a bit of a character mauling at the hands of Martin Stephen), back from the dead for the second time and desparate to avenge himself on Gresham for his perceived actions in getting him exiled in the first place. In addition to this Gresham's age-old foe, Lord Cecil, Earl of Salisbury, dies at the start, not before giving Gresham a mission to track down several vital missing documents penned by the King (James VI/I) to his lover Robert Carr. This gives Gresham the chance to meet his new parliamentary foe - Sir Edward Coke, ably joined by Carr's friend and general thug Sir Thomas Overbury (whom Gresham neatly brings to earth with a literal bloody nose fairly swiftly). <br />Political intrigue abounds as we weave through a multitude of documents to discover that not only are their explicit love lettes but multiple original versions of Shaskespeare's plays allpointing to the fact that he never wrote them, rather rewrote the more paltry efforts of other authors, Bishop Andrewes, Kit Marlowe and the king himself to name a few. Of course, it `s not quite so simple as that, but we are shown a snivelling, pusillanimous Shakespeare that jars simply on theauthor's rough treatment of western literature's greatest playwright. <br />So, with Marlow aiming to get his Fall of Lucifer aired, discredit Will, give Gresham and Jane a dose of the pox and Sirs Edward and Thomas aiming to get Gresham removed we skip from Oxford college rooftops, to a brief sojourn at the King's pleasure in the Tower, to frantic boat chases and kidnaps to its glorious explosive culmination on the Thames. Gresham narrowly avoids death multiple times (though at least he has to undergo serious recuperation each time, rather doesn't spring back unharmed more sprightly than before), and generally cuts a dangerous path through London's upper class hearts and minds on his way to uncovering the truth. A James Bond for the seventeenth century. <br />All in all highly enjoyable and it appears from the unnecessary postscript at the end that a third is in the pipeline and advisedly so. Henry Gresham joins a long line of superspies and his efforts are well worth the read on that long train journey. <br />	2005-07-29
US	50323648	R209JL24UV0KTF	0340823143	468216268	Caligula	Books	4	23	25	N	N	A sympathetic attempt	Massie's effort at the third Claudio-Julian Emperor, Caligula, one of history's atypical evil leaders is presented in a sympathetic slant here, more pages devoted to understanding the plight of a man upon whom greatness was thrust, but who was ill-equipped to deal with leading the world's greatest empire than actually detailing the nature of his brutality. Caligula, an emperor, whom for Massie at least, used the Empire as his plaything, floating in a fantasy world and  he never sniffed a glimmer of the reality it really meant.<br /><br />The story is narrated as unofficial biography at Agrippina's request, by an anonymous man of senatorial rank who became Gaius' closest confidante. Massie runs through the complexities of the Julio-Claudian family and the ptolemaic murders that went on as each side of the family fought for political pre-eminence after Augustus' death. He moves through the Roman world of Tiberius, all the time seeking to explain the reasons behind Caligula's paranoia and desperate need for people to like him. Mothers and fathers, uncles and aunts are all portrayed as either heroically felled by evil relations (such as Germanicus) or as politcal vipers scheming to get puppets on the imperial throne whom they could control. It all moved towards a manipulated, ever fearful leader who was never comfortable on the imperial throne Augustus had created out of the republican ashes.<br /><br />Massie takes us through the usual Suetonian stories about Caligua, from his gallivanting across the Bay of Baiae, ensuring his horse, Incitatus, became a consul, the nightly trips to the Subaru, to his incestuous love for Drusilla (whose death removes the only person he ever really loved and trusted) at the same time seeing it through the inextricably entwined narrator whose own life it shaped by the understandable madness - his loss of his wife, Caesonia the prime example - that assails Caligula. Midway Agrippana almost apologies for his behaviour when she says: \\"Gaiusis the most cursed of all. He destroys everything he touches. It's his madness. It can't last.\\" (p169)<br /><br />By the end Caligula's brief tenure is over, ended at the point of a praetorian sword, Claudius is emperor and our narrator is in exile. This is Massie's Apologia for Caligula, an attempt to redress the Suetonian image of the man who should never have been king which has been further confounded by films such as `Caligula' and you come away with a slightly sour taste of a twenty first century apology for everything. Namely, it was is upbringing that was reponsible for the man he became. All sense of justice and culpability is removed and familial problems are the root cause. There is an acceptance that personal responsibility is not an option and that he was a product of the system. Somehow, it doesn't quite hold water. Massie's style is as languid as ever and he protrays a world of decadence and fantasy that doesn't bring ancient Rome to life but certainly acts as an apology for the image that history has created of Caligula.	2005-07-29
US	50323648	ROG9EKAN7RSTS	0743468147	416767431	Demon Of The Air	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Worth the Crime Writer Award	Simon Levack's first novel takes the ancient murder mysteries across the atlantic into the world of the Aztecs and promptly opens with the inevitable human sacrifice that was so integral to their religion. What's good is that he gives us an explanation of why through a detailed recount of the Aztec origins of the world mythology before opening up the story with our sleuth literally hurling himself down the side of a pyramid after the bouncing body of a Bathed Slave after causing a fracas with the priests. <br />Within the next dozen or so pages Levakc has also detailed the importance of providing a pure body for sacrifice and given an insight as to the social standings within Aztec society. So by the time our hero, Yaotl, slave to the Chief Minister is hauled before Montezuma to be coerced into solving the disappearance of a bunch of sorcerors from the Cuauhcalco prison, we have not only hat plot but a good synopsis of the Aztec cultural knowledge needed for this novel. It is an impressive start. <br />The story unfolds as Yaotl finds himself hounded and threatened by all sides. His master, Black Feathers, <br />orders him to Coyoacan to find out what has become of the sorcerors that have flown the prison. His trip there with Handy and his sons, Snake and Buck, reveal three murders and a saved young boy whom Handy and his wife Citlalli take in. In the meantime, Yaotl delves further into the family of Shining Light, the merchant who provided the Bathed Slave and comes up against his mother Lily and their connections to a thuggish Misty and his son Nimble. After a couple of episodes where Misty's intent to murder Yaotl becomes clear and Nimble's desperate prevention of it, another sorceror body turns up in Black Feather's pond as Yoatl goes on the run from his master which he feels is trying to give him to Misty. <br />An eventful game at one of the stadium (with an interesting aside as to the rules of the Aztec game) leads to Yaotl eventually to garner some truths from his brother Lion, Guardian of the Waterfront and highly respected warrior and the pair promptly go off (once Lion has discovered his participation in some murders was due to his duping by the duplicitous Black Feathers) to uncover the further truths behind Shining Light. <br />Yaotl comes up with a theory that is near the mark, but not quite enough to mean the eventually watery denouement on a parrot boat in the middle of the lake causes some further surprises as to the identity of Shining Light. However, Yaotl's expounding of his theory whilst in the arms of Lily does give Levack the chance to give us a detailed history of our protagonist whilst in the arms of Lily. We learn of how he failed the annual priestly tests and ended up selling himself. We learn of his affair with Maize Flower and the enmity that developed with Telpochtli. Ultimately, it allows Yaotol to deceive himself, find out he has a son and uncover the truth behind the murders. Whilst the name of the murderer is fairly eveident from early on, what is not is the motive and this is the true mystery throughout the novel. <br />It is easy to see why Levack has won a debut Crime Writers Award for this effort is markedly good and any further novels about Yaotl will be eagerly sought by this reader, at least.	2005-07-29
US	50323648	R27YZVTFE83KUP	0007150660	570675889	Jem Sultan: The Adventures of a Captive Turkish Prince in Renaissance Europe	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An erudite biography	Jem, son of Mehmet II, sacker of Constantinople in 1453, and Cicek is the central historical personage in this biography by John Freely. It approaches the years around the shift in power around the Black Sea and Anatolia and the power struggle that erupted after the untimely death of the Grand Turk, Mehmet II, scourge of Italy and the Papal States leading to Jem's self-imposed exile in Europe and unwitting use as a political pawn before his poisoning. <br />Over the first sixty odd pages of the hardback version Freely gives us terse introduction to the politics of the Ottoman Empire, specifically focusing on Jem's grandfather and father and the subsequent ill-fated and short-lived push for power that ended the aims of the sole heir actually `born-to-the-purple'. After losing the battle at Yenisehir he fled to Cairo, epi-centre of the Mamluk empire under Kaitbey and thence to the commencement of his final exile via Rhodes where he was put in the first of his many gilded cages by the Grand Master of the Knights Hospitaller, Pierre d'Aubusson. For the rest of his life he would be sought after by Kaitbey, Beyazit, Charles VIII of France, the papacy, King Ferrante of Naples and Matthias Corvinus and  <br />Jem and his retinue arrived on the Grand Neuf de Tresor at Nice in the autumn of 1482. At this point Jem's legend begins to acquire that romantic status so prevalent of medieval lore with its concepts of chivalry. Key moments are his meeting and loving of Phillipine de Sassenage which gave rise to `La Belle Helene', his romance of Jeanne le Veste to `La Dame a la Licorne, the Nice prostitutes whose parting gift to Jem of a chess playing chimpanzee and talking parrot remaining enduring legends, his mistress Almeida's tragic suicide. These aside it is Jem's manipulation by the Papacy that governed the latter years of his exile and life. Have secured his captive in 1489, Pope Innocent VIII imprisoned Jem in the Apostolic palace and began to negotiate with Beyazit for maintenance. Jem survived several assassination attempts and indeed, Innocent who died just before Columbus set sail for the New World, Alexander VI succeeding him. Jem may well have lived out the rest of his life in peaceful exile had it not been for the crusading aspiration of Charles VIII of France who invaded Italy to secure Jem and his Neapolitan kingdom, cutting a swathe through the Papal states with no opposition. It was at this point that during Jem's move from Rome to Naples he died en route (suspected pneumonia) and Freely highlights this a primary cause for Charles failure to attack Beyazit, his figurehead having gone. With the death of Jem, Freely swiftly moves on to highlight the remainder of  Beyazit's life and indeed that of the Ottoman Empire before returning to the theme of his prologue that highlights the enduring legend of Jem Sultan to the modern day. <br />John Freely's erudite prose is immensely readable and whilst he does not give a focused biography of Jem Sultan he does retell a crucial point in European and Ottoman history from the perspective of an unwitting political pawn. It would have been more complete to get a sense of Jem's personality and bearing during his exile but there is no investigation of his daily life or interaction. However, this is not to distract from an excellently accessible piece of scholarship (apart from one small error on page 211 where Freely states Rodrigo Borgia had six children by the time of his election, but then lists, on the following page, seven of them) on a man who had such influence on European politics over a decade of turmoil and whose life has descended into romantic myth in many histories. By the final page I felt I had read a historical biography that was well written for the general reader and possessed that edge to keep both the story and the reader rolling along with Jem Sultan. <br />Worth reading.	2005-07-29
US	50323648	R1R8C6L79925FD	0593052625	175081246	Boudica: Dreaming The Hound	Books	5	9	9	N	N	This now a quality series	It's volume three of Manda Scott's hugely successful fantasy about one of Britain's most famous warriors. Breaca, known as the Boudica, is back in Britain killing Romans and spending months agonising over her destiny at the head of the Eceni. In isolated tow is her younger brother, Ban, now known as Valerius, a deserter from the army and exile after the death of Claudius. Nero is on the throne and Britain is no longer safe. <br />Scott has our tortured, reluctant leader spend the first hundred pages hunting alone, struggling to deal with the choices facing her. Return with no honour to Mona or go east to the enslaved Eceni and the one-armed embittered Prasutagos. After facing multiple demons and spirits both without and within we end the first part of this latest novel with her in her own familial fellowship of her ex-lover Airmid her son and daughters, Cunomar, Graine and Cygfa and their protectors, Ardacos and Dubornos. With the ever faithful hound, Stone at her side she returns to the Eceni to take a position at Tagos' side as his queen, all the while tormented by images of her family enslaved and trying to establish a parental relationship with Cunomar and Graine. Meanwhile Valerius is living a quiet life as a blacksmith, an unwilling adopter of the boy Bellos and being constantly pushed by the Mona dreamer, Luain mac Calma, to take active part in Eceni life again.. <br />The action really starts around page 170 or so when  the British client kings and families are summoned to the Roman governor for a lesson in subjugation. The resultant death of Eneit and then Tagos' death in an ambush of Philius hands control of the Eceni to Breaca. Both she and Cunomar begin their assembalge of a war host, whilst on Mona Valerius finds himself reborn as a dreamer to both Nemain and Mithras. Longinus Sapdze returns at the vanguard of the legions under the command of Suetonius Paulus to take the island and ends up in a trap sprung by Valerius, captured and on the end of a shifting allegiance. Our explosive climax ends with the historically infamous flogging of Breaca and rape of Graine and Cygfa before Valerius and Corvus rescue them setting in motion the events that will lead to the most famous insurrection in British history. <br />I criticised Manda Scott's opener of this series as a somewhat directionless fantasy. However, the massive improvement that commenced with her sequel is surpassed in this stunning third. Here, for the first time, Scott was going to be measured against historical fact and has not been found wanting. Emotive characterisation, a solid merging of ancient Celtic culture and mythology with Roman modernisation, gripping plots, effusively described battle scenes and rending portraits of personal and familial pain make this everything Conn Iggulden is not. <br />If, like me, you weren't overly captured by the first novel, stay with it because this author does deliver in a big way in this novel and for one, this reader, awaits the fourth installment as soon as Scott can pen it.	2005-07-29
US	50323648	R3HAOCDTY13GI4	0312271204	795284084	A Gladiator Dies Only Once: The Further Investigations of Gordianus the Finder	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A gem of a collection	Saylor's second release of Gordianus short stories are as delightful as those in the `House of Vestals'. In chronological order he opens with The Consul's wife, a quick story of newspaper cryptic messages and a paranoid consul with a beautiful and independent young wife who's not adverse to backing a quick sesterce at the races. Swiftly narrated and demonstrative of Gordianus' quick eye and intelligent lateral thinking our super sleuth solves this case carelessly in a matter of hours and takes his fee. The second `If a Cyclops Could Vanish in the Blink of an Eye' is the shortest of the nine and is Bethseda's only real mention during this feline crime. `The White Fawn' has Gordianus scampering west to Spain to meet up with the renegade general Sertorius in order to chase down Mamercus Claudius, a hot-headed youth who has joined up with him against his grandfather's wishes. Gordianus gets dragged into a search for a white fawn that is acting as Sertorius' soothsayer. This story has a darker ending with our first murder of an innocent. <br />`Something Fishy in Pompeii' appeals to our palatable readers with its focus on industrial espionage over a missing batch of finest garum whilst `Archimedes Tomb' neatly combines the pomposity of Cicero in Syracuse with the infamous `Eureka' and the bath. Here, Gordianus is called upon to solve another murder after a Trimalchio-esque dinner between the merchant men Agathinus and Dorotheus with their pet poet, Margero. Here we find a reference to Tiro and Eco is also along for the ride. <br />`Death by Eros' deals with unrequited love in a gymnasium as the overly beautiful Cleon is found at the bottom of the pool and his sister Cleio and tutor Mulciber are dragged in. In what I feel is the best story of the lot, `A Gladiator Dies Only Once'  Gordianus sits through a munera with Cicero, witnessing the brutality of gladiatorial combat, and is then by recruited by the Nubian, Zuleika, who is searching for her brother Zanzibar whose death isn't quite what it seems. In `Poppy and the poisoned cake' we find Lucius Gellius Poplicola, a somewhat stuffy censor, allowing Gordianus to rapidly solve the mystery of his cyanide cake with his wife Palla, and son Lucius but finds himself a pawn in a greater political game which echoes many of the fuller novels. We conclude with a visit to the oppulent table of Lucullus and his cherries for a mystery that skips murder entirely and offers Syalor's own conclusion to Lucullus' fading from history. <br />This is a delightful set of small additions to the Sub Rosa series and serve well to fill in the gaps of the thirty odd years that we have followed our Finder. I sincerely hope more Gordianus come from the pen of Saylor but this may mean he has to move away from creating mysteries based on histroical events as those events are fast running out, though having Gordianus involved in the most famous murder of all in 44B.C must surely lure Saylor's pen. <br />If you're an ancient history murder mystery fan then Saylor's one of the best. Buy it.	2005-07-15
US	50323648	R3BNCH877QQLMY	1594200386	705188160	The Geographer's Library	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A promising beginning	Jon Fasman's first novel promised so much durnig the first two thirds of the text. It was erudite and gripping through its simple plot. Much along the same lines as that over-trumpeted `The Rule of Four' where that sailed off into intellectual posturizing this kept neat and tidy plot lines, smooth charcterisation and understandable curiosity throughout its pages. It was a pity it ended with a whimper rather than a bang. <br />There is a single plot here, set in present day America that takes frequent stops (fifteen in all) to delve back into the past to explain the events surrounding the theft of fifteen objects from the geographer al-Idrisi of the court of King Roger of Sicily in 1154 and their last known whereabouts. These anecdotes all provide the immediate thrill of mystery as the objects last known owners meet an untimely end. In the meantime, we follow laconic Paul Tomm, recent graduate of Wickenden University and investigative reporter for the sleepy publication `Lincoln Carrier' as his interest is piqued and encouraged by his editor, Art Rolen, to follow the mysterious murder of the non-salaried and gun-toting Baltic history professor, Jaan Puhapev. During his small town travels he meets and falls for Hannah Rowe and then ends up investigating the subsequent death of `Panda', Dr Sunathipala. <br />The problem with the novel is that it needs a sense of the threatening to make it good and it just doesn't happen. From the run in with Eddie the Albanian to his fight with Puhapev's `brother' you get a sense of `it'll be alright on the night' rather than a creeping sense of fear that should pervade our hero's reactions. It's all so muted and is the key to reader dissatisfaction. By the end we've sat down with Paul as he's told a fantastical tale that links alchemy with immortality, accepts it all and just walks off to carry on his life. Utterly anti-climatic. <br />I believe Fasman has talent as two-thirds of this novel promised but there needs to be a climatic ending, not a damp squib in order to make the reader want to return to his efforts. I'll read his next effort and hopefully the tale will capitalise on such a promising beginning. <br />	2005-07-06
US	50323648	R3U2DWQQJ8AY44	0743208595	559270255	Gene	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Not quite to Decipher's heights	The author of the sterling first novel, Decipher, is back with a new concept that meshes ancient worlds with modern day New York.  <br />A fight through the aeons has recommenced in downtown New York and the hunt is on. <br />Gene is the story of Detective James North whose investigation and subsequent chase across midtown of the New York Museum wrecking Gene leads to an explosive story of an ill-fated battle that has raged across our time, originating in the first battle between the Trojan Warrior Cyclades and the Babylonian Magi Athanatos after the latter caused the Trojan War and the death of Cyclades' wife. <br />After the opening chase where a thousand questions are raised and North finds himself on the receiving end of a needle with an unknown drug Pavlou weaves our story through New York in an attempt to understand who Gene and North really are and how Athanatos is seeking to discover the genetic reasons behind Cyclades reincarnation. Whilst Athanatos has developed an elixir to ensure his memories are passed to his children thus perpetuating himself it is prone to loss of knowledge through imperfect memory experience. Threading through the story are lots of flashbacks to Cyclades' run-ins with Athanatos through the ages, usually with the magus getting the upper hand and a substory of William Porter whose realisation that memory is passed from generation to generation through the male gives rise to a kind of reincarnation. His small assistance of North leads to an explosive showdown between Gene and North as the latter realises that the many other descendants of Cyclades are being murdered as Athanatos seeks to eliminate his enemy and retain only Gene to steal his secret of eternal life. <br />Coming after the superb `Decipher' this was not as complete a novel, primarily because the plot thread is harder to follow and little emotive explanation is given for the action until late in the novel. The genetic concepts behind the plot are not as fully formed as theycould be and you get the impression the author was letting the characters direct the plot rather than the other way round. <br />It's good, not as good as Decipher, but Stel Pavlou has taken the techno-thriller and given it a dark twist against a vast timeline in a manner that is riveting. The fight between Athantos and Cyclades steps through the novel at a higher level than the individual battles and the race for Gene and North to understand which is Athanatos and which is Cyclades takes us to a nail biting finish. Pavlou's an excellent addition to the techno-thriller genre and this one doesn't fail to deliver.	2005-06-29
US	50323648	R24TOJCNY1NIAM	0765348675	844711788	Treason Keep: Book Two of the Hythrun Chronicles	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Comparable to Eddings at his finest	Jennifer Fallon's second novel is sparkling and engenders the kind of excitement that Eddings did with the Belgariad. Utterly gripping with the kind of plausible characters that you want to follow avidly, with clean plotlines and plausible action, Treason Keep confirms Fallon's status as a realistic quality fantasy author. Here is none of the disappointment generated by the usual publishing overhype you get on so many second rate fantasy efforts these days. <br />Treason Keep picks up smoothly from Medalon. R'Shiel, the Demon Child, is in the Sanctuary healing from the stabbing by the now child-like First Sister, Joyhinya. Meanwhile, her one true love, Tarja Tenragan is with the Hythrin Warlord, Damin Wolfblade and the Defenders' Lord Jenga at Treason Keep keeping at bay a Karien army, led by Prince Cratyn and  urged on by the Overlord God Xaphista. <br />In this next installment we are introduced to two new main characters, Princess Adrina of Fardonhyan and Mikel, an overzealous young boy from the Karien army. Fallon's creation of the courtes'a trained Adrina is utterly marvellous. Much like Ce'Nedra, her fiery tempered, politically sharp mind and withering sarcasm in the face of her arranged marriage to Prince Cretin (as she calls him) is endlessly amusing and she literally can be rolled by her author into the midst of any situation to devastating effect. So, she is, firstly with her hated marriage and subsequent escape to Treason Keep and eventual relationship with Damin. It's a major subplot that grips the whole novel. So much so that Tarja and R'Shiel are in danger of fading into character obscurity. <br />The incredibly naive and zealous Mikel, is a boy captured by the Defenders, unwillingly subverted by Dacendaran and fervent adherent to the tenets of Xaphista. His innocence and blinkered approach to reality means he becomes a pawn for miscommunication by both sides but means he is ever-present. You follow his story with some frustration hoping that eventually the scales will fall from his eyes and he will see the truth. <br />As in Medalon, Fallon keeps the plot straightforward here. Whilst there is a standoff at the Karien-Medalon border, R'Shiel and Tarja concern themselves with getting the conclave at the Citadel to accept a demon-meld character of Joyhinya who can then transfer power to Mahina. This fails, R'Shiel is captured and she learns to reject the whisperings of Xaphista (very much like Garion and Torak) before striding from her captivity like an avenging angel. <br />So...a well-crafted, utterly gripping second fantasy novel where the quality of writing legitimately declares Fallon to be as good as the likes of Eddings, Feist and co rather than some wishful thinking quotes on the jacket that inevitably disappoint. <br />If you're a fantasy fan, this is quality. Buy it.	2005-06-06
US	50323648	RQZD70JIEM4S	0727861875	5870908	Stone Cold	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A gaulish sojourn	Todd has her fiery heroine, Claudia Seferius, outside Rome again for this eleventh irreverent mystery, as she hotfoots it to Gaul having told Orbilio that she's checking the soil in the Gaulish town of Santonum in order to grow more vines. A terrible lie, of course, that has Orbilio coming after her, tormented by images of Claudia and Junius and on a case to capture child slave peddlers.  <br />Within a hundred pages we are introduced to a motley collection of people working for Marcia, divorced and ruthless entrepreneur of the town, as they create a winter wonderland at her home. With Marcia we meet Qeb, an animal trainer, Hor, a painter, Semir, the Babylonian gardener, Stella, Marcia's cousin and mother of six children, Vincentrix, Head of the Druid Guild, Hannibal the dashing fop and Marcia's brother, Paris the Mycenaen sculptor, Tarbel the bodyguard and Padi, the indian soothsayer. <br />Vulcanalia has started and during the festivities Marcus gets knocked out trying to capture the child slave gang by the boatbuilder's step daughter, Zina and is forced to team up with her. Her overly licentious nature causes him some trouble with Claudia, who herself survives half a ton of masonry crashing down as she attempts to find information leading to the whereabouts of her disappeared father.  <br />In the meantime we get Todd's favourite plot ploy of having an enigmatic character hovering in the wings watching proceedings whilst agonising over some emotive insanity. This time the person is called `Scarecrow'. Over a period time the original reason for Claudia's arrival in Gaul disappears from the plot and Marcus' hunt for the gang becomes centre stage. Claudia manages to unravel the secret of the Scarecrow, figure out who the killer really is (the culprit invariably has  suffered a complete lack  of a sense of reality which is a common theme in Todd's culprits - a trend which is making it easier to identify the probable solution in her recent novels) save Marcus again and indulge in a `will they won't they' dance of love with the dashing policeman.  <br />Actually, the lack of movement in their relationship is becoming a trifle irritating. Todd needs to move their relationship on. Less of the increasing references to `heaving bosoms' and `dark ringlets of hair' and `sandalwood musk' and more development in the relationship is now needed. <br />Claudia's last installment was definitely the worst so it was highly probable this had to be better. Yet, it's not in the top five by any means and it is increasingly apparent we have another Roman sleuth who doesn't travel well. To date the plots set in Rome are far crisper. Hopefully Claudia will be back in Rome for number twelve but the enigmatic decision by Marcus at the close might scupper this. <br />We'll see... <br />	2005-06-02
US	50323648	R2I1A5HKQL3858	1844134628	741487193	Poison in Athens	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Overly verbose	You get the impression that despite being a literature professor Doody's hobby is ancient Greece as so much of these novels weave in standard theory of  Athenian history, culture, and philosophy. Half of these lengthy whodunnits is given over to intellectualizing and polis-debating using our erstwhile hero, Stephanos as a vehicle for receiving the endless rehetoric of Aristotle and his students. For example,  chapter two spends its entire time discussing the reason for writing about the Athenian constitution. It is now firmly accepted in academic circles that the real Aristotle's `Constitution of Athens' was written by his students as a series of essay notes and Doody follows the party line in her fictional attibution.  The novel opens with three trials over a period of time that actually commenced before `Secrets of Life'. Firstly, with the brief trial of Orthoboulos who requested Aristotle's help in the case brought against him for malicious wounding. The victory of the defence against the prosecuting Ergokles and his subsequent complete claim over the slave girl Marylla leads on to the murder of Orthoboulous by hemlock at the brothel of Manto to which Stephanos was an unfortunate discoverer of the corpse. His subsequent calling as a witness proves personally embarrassing and puts a spoke in the wheels of time to his marriage day. Orthoboulos' son Kritos accuses his stepmother Hermia of the deed and her inadvertent sacrilege in the agora whilst under accusation links neatly into the next pending trial. That of the heitara, Phyrne, for impiety at the brothel of Tryphaina - an abode at which Stephanos again finds himself present at a most unfortunate time.  As a result of these trials Aristotle scents a bad political wind in the uneasy air of Athens and they decide to prove Hermia innocent of her stepson's charge. The case is further exacerbated by the disappearance of Kritos' brother Kleiophon, himself accused of incest in heated argument with Kritos. What followsis a merry dance as Stephanos desperately tries to ensure he isn't remembered as the `Makedonian soldier', trying to locate Kleiophon, dealing with Antipater's ridiculous spy, Arkhias, and trying to calm an overheated city where prejudice is taking a firm grip. Once the trial of Phyrne is settled in a hugely emotive way, Stephanos finds himself tracking down the corpse of Ergokles and, through Manto, the elusive Lykaina until the truth is spilled during a deathbed confession which rapidly unravels any future trials. At this point Doody chooses to exercise that oft-used reason for crime - namely a love triangle. Passions murder all.  I always find myself wanting to read the next Stephanos novel but temporizing over actually getting going. The reason is that  I like the mysteries in them but know I am going to have to sit through at least a hundred pages of lecturing on Greek philosophy, politics and mores etc. etc. by an assorted cast of pompous, self-aggrandizing supporting characters that actually achieve little when it comes to the concepts of gripping the reader and moving the plot along. Unless Doody is using these novels as a vehicle to educate the reader in the finer points of Aristotelean philosophy. In which case it succeeds admirably.  It's almost like watching your favourite program and tolerating the adverts because you can't easily fast forward for fear of missing a crucial bit.  So, I'll read the next one, but, as ever, will have to schedule a full five days to get through a book that would take one or two if it were a little more gripping.	2005-06-01
US	50323648	REVQ17QIK0TGR	0349117411	123217299	Meadowland: A Novel of the Viking Discovery of America	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another gem	Tom Holt's latest foray into historical fiction is as classy as the previous efforts. He has a somewhat unique premise that runs through all his historical novels. Namely to prove that history is just a consequence of arbitrary discussions by the main protagonists. So, for example, in the book, `Alexander at the World's End' he tells us that everything this global legend did was due to the farce of yapping dog philosophy by Euxenus. In this effort we learn that Harald Sigurdson's decision not to settle in America and thus set back the discovery back several hundred years was entirely due to a conversation with our story's narrator John Stetathus. His narrative style also follows the same formula. Just as with Cratus and Cleander in `Olympiad', so here we have the aging Eyvind and Kari telling their story in one continuous chronolgy though with their own voices at different times whilst stuck in a wet cave after the axle falls off their money cart. It's rather good and anyone who has liked the previous novels will enjoy this one.  Not much actually happens in this novel, concerning, as it does the ill-fated voyages of Kari and Eyvind with various members of Eirik the Red's progeny. The pair spend most of their lives joined at the hip, grumbling about each other whilst drifting between Greenland and Meadowland over the course of six voyages.  The first is a brief visit with Bjarni Herjolfsson after getting blown off course whilst attempting to reach Greenland. The second is with Leif Eirikson where the infamous Leif's booths are founded before misery sets in and they ship back. The third is with Thorvald Eirikson after Eirik dies and Leif takes over running of Brattahlid. The voyage ends up with them encountering the indigenous population and killing them before returning again to Greenland  The fourth is with Thorstein - a particularly ill-fated voyage as they never get to Meadowland but instead end up a day's sail down the Greenland coast suffering the plague. The fifth occurs with `Bits' Thorfinn, who has ideas of a great settlement but no actual clue as to how to implement it. This is a fairly lengthy sojourn with the birth of the first child in Meadowland and a prolonged fight with the indigenous population which is resolved by a large bull and Gudrid's bare chest.  Lastly, we have a voyage where our protagonists are taken against their will by the evil Freydis Eiriksdatter who is in partnership with some Icelanders to form a settlement and ship trade wood. This ends up in mass murder and another failed settlement attempt and concludes the narrative.  Mixed in are the sibling's rivalry over Gudrid, unplanned dreams and generally ineffectual leadership tantrums. Kari and Eyvind spend most of their time just getting on with everything in a quiet and generally lazy way, becoming the men to have on each voyage and recorders of the true attempts to colonise America in the early part of the eleventh century.  Tom Holt's historical novels are utterly refreshing. The nostalgic dialogue that seeks to prove some kind of philosophy just ends up in proving the chaos that controls our lives and events. At the end it's all down to pure luck and happenchance and there's not much we can do about it other than simply tell the story. Holt has managed to create a genre all by himself where he mixes history and philosophy to come up with something that is both subtly comic and delightful to read. If you've not done so yet, give these books a go. You won't be disappointed.	2005-06-01
US	50323648	R2XWG3ZO35SGOG	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Better than 'Prey'	Michael Crichton's latest, `State of Fear', delves into the topic of global warming that he firmly believes has created global uncertainty and fear simply through mis-reporting and the suppression of little actual data, quoting, as he chooses to do through the character of Kenner, multiple scientific journals and seminars that show little actual global warming over the past century. At several points in the novel he chooses to have a dialog between characters where the more knowledgable one explodes the media driven myths on global warming and humanity's perception of the evolution of nature.  <br />The novel concerns the efforts of the Environment Liberation Front, an violent activist group, who are seeking to encourage terrible natural disasters at the same time as a major conference on abrupt climatic change hosted by NERF, in turn themselves seeking to prosecute the US for global pollution that is causing the island of Vanatu to disappear under the waves. The reason behind the ELFs involvement is because the raw Pacific ocean data is showing no such rise at all and thereby dooming the lawsuit. NERF, headed by the insidious Nick Drake, is desperately trying to get billionaire George Morton to inject ten million of cash into NERF whilst Morton's young lawyer from Hassle & Black, Peter Evans, is struggling with his PA and his client as the latter ends up changing his mind rapidly about his investment but without telling Peter why. As Peter tries to understand what's happening, we get gossip theories and half-heard conversations until Morton cancels his investment and delivers the wrong speech at a NERF conference before dying in a car crash. <br />After this momentous event Peter finds himself being attacked and then saved by Professor Kenner, a somewhat enigmatic character who seems to be spearheading the front line action against ELF. He discovers a coded note from Morton shortly before his 'death' listing four areas in the world that are due to suffer `natural disasters'. As a result the novel turns to a race against time to the four areas to prevent the ELF organisation turning these natural weather patterns into major disasters (though Crichton only spends time on three as the `hurricane' is conveniently dropped - too long a novel perhaps?). <br />So, Peter, Kenner, Sanjong, Jennifer Haynes, and, for the last, Ted Bradley, traverse the globe to prevent the ELF organisation carrying out its dastardly deeds. As expected they comeg under immense personal danger in the Antarctic, Arizona and Persuasion Island as they seek to stop the bad guys and save the world. Sequences between action points are filled with sermonising about the State of Fear that has been created and Crichton supplies an extensive bibliography for the reader to go through. This latest effort from Crichton is as gripping as ever and is far superior to `Prey'. The scientific dicsussions can be neatly removed for any TV adapation as the screenplay plot unfolds but provide enough food for thought to the reader. <br />As ever, for that long plane or train journey, Crichton is one of those authors who never fail to please.	2005-05-13
US	50323648	R36OSZFS6BS99G	039915177X	170827342	Lost City: From the NUMA Files - Kurt Austin	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Best Kurt Austin outing yet	Kurt's back for adventure number five and this one's as good as the old Dirk novels after a paucity of quality in recent years. <br />This time we open in the middle of WWI to find the extremely rich fugitive Jules Fauchard failing in a mission to reach Switzerland and dying believing his failure will kill millions. Zip forward to present day and we find Jodie Michaelson being evicted off the latest reality TV show Outcast Island. Her eviction saves her life as she awakes to find the contestants and producers being ripped apart. In Monevassia in the Greek Peloponnese, Angus Maclean has fled for his life from an assassin but finds himself captured. Meanwhile in the Alps Hank Thurston, professor of glaciology and Derek Rawlins, journalist, are visiting a subglacial observatory when a body is found in its frozen grip. It's Jules Fauchard bearing a case full of documents and a superbly crafted helmet. On cue the bad guys arrive to steal the case and doom Kurt's latest love interest, Skye Labelle, French professor in medieval arms, who has been called in for her opinion on the helmet to a watery grave. Kurt and Zavala come to the rescue in their underwater submersible. <br />An ocean away the able husband and wife sidekicks, Paul and Gamay Morgan-Trout find themselves investigating a global case of gorgonweed, a biomass that is threatening to choke the world's oceans. <br />All three incidents are inextricably linked. <br />Kurt finds himself following in Paul and Gamay's footsteps as they are kidnapped whilst exploring the Lost City which they believe is responsible for creating the gorgonweed and they end up back on a Scottish Isle forced to aid the reappeared Angus MacLean in his attempts to perfect a new elixir of life. The red-eyed beasts prove all too real and Paul sets them free during their escape creating mayhem. Meanwhile Skye and Kurt are pursuing the leads of the highly secretive Fauchard family and a visit to the gothic medieval chateau persuades them of themegalomania inherent within Racine Fauchard and her son, Emile. <br />The resulting plot has our hero and his dependable sidekick running through dark tunnels, fighting with ancient weapons, and spending a lot of time wisecracking his way out of deadly situations as he seeks to unseat a family after the elixir of immortality. There is a distinct lack of underwater adventure here but it's not detrimental and Kurt seems to have given up his deadly races on speedboats though there is the obligatory car chase. <br />There are a couple of faux pas as we learn of Captain John Bruce on the British Coast Guard boat Scapa who \\"as a good Presbyterian who neither drank nor swore\\" (page 334) cheerfully giving Kurt access to his \\"bottle of fine Scotch whiskey\\" (page 336) and high above \\"The French Alps, August 1914\\" (page 1) Jules Fauchard not sure which continent he's over as he's sucking \\"in air, the arctic cold striking his lungs\\" (page 2) but, on the whole this is a great effort from Cussler and Kemprecos. Far superior to the banal `Black Wind' and brings back memories of greats such as `Inca Gold' or `Sahara'. This fifth volume in the Austin series may just well halt the criticism of the next generation series of efforts and we may well just be back to some quality Cussler adventure. Roll on the next adventure.	2005-05-03
US	50323648	R1K8ZJNB1Q53TB	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Overly verbose but promising	It seems as though a favourite literary or cinematic device is to constantly imply that the edge between genius and madness is blurred to the point of non-existence and that, in order to convey this, the main characters flit in a twilight world of imagination and brilliance that makes them incoherent to the rest of the characters or readers/viewers. As a result you find a growing frustration with the text where you just want to snap them out of their intellectual stupor and emotional agonising and give the facts clearly and coherently. <br />I purchased The Rule of Four having been lured by the screaming headline on the front cover: \\"If you loved the Da Vinci Code...dive into this\\". Obviously I failed to translate '...' into 'be prepared to be disappointed'. Mainly for the reason I give above. <br />'The Rule of Four' suffers from verbosity through the opening half when you're not entirely clear if you're in the present or in the past, or in the present reminsicing about that past. Stirred quite thickly into the mix is the oft-used love triangle though in this case one third isn't a person but a book. The Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, to be exact. In itself 'The Rule of Four' achieves the admirable aim of getting the reader to be vastly interested in cryptology and Renaissance greats and the concluding pages are written in the clear manner that the reader has been calling for as worst offender, Paul, finally sits down and explains what he has discovered. <br />After a brief prologue where a man murders messengers guarding a secret, the story moves to present day and  is about four Princeton students who, as friends,  are affected by the final year thesis of Paul on this great text. The main character is  Tom Corelli Sullivan, whose father was a leading expert on the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili before his death. Tom's involvement with Paul, (who has been taken under the intellectual wing by Vincent Taft, once a friend and co-worker on the Hypnerotomachia along with Richard Curry) Gil, and Charlie pushes the novel along as he is gradually sucked back into the intellectualdrug of puzzle solving. The authors mix in his on-off relationship with Katie, the involvement of Bill Stein, Paul's graduate research assistant, and a serious case of intellectual copyright and plagiarism results in violence to create a darkly sombre world of compulsive obsession. <br />Caldwell and Thomason have done a good job of creating a world of intellectual fervour and Tom's internal torment between his father's work and leading a normal life with Katie is brilliantly brushed on the pages. The odd scientific forays into cryptology keep the story moving suffciently without weighing it down. The only real problem was the book  was too long for its plot and wasn't sufficient gripping. I think the key to this was the expectation that it was another Da Vinci Code. Nevertheless it was a well written enough offering from these first time authors that a subsequent novel should be read and the writing will only improve.	2005-04-25
US	50323648	R3U8WMOCPO95S9	0060563710	512011652	Hadrian's Wall	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gripping historical thriller	This was my first novel by William Dietrich which I came across entirely by chance whilst looking for John Maddox Roberts' `The Seven Hills'. An impulse buy that proved enthralling. Dietrich has written several novels, his first set focusing on being scientific thrillers, so this turn to historical romantic thriller is somewhat intriguing. <br />Hadrian's Wall uses that ready-to-order plot of a love triangle set against the backdrop of Rome's Britannic frontier on Hadrian's wall. It is during the declining years of the Empire, in the fourth century AD, and the Thracian Petrianis cavalry tribune Galba Brassidias is the de facto ruler of this bleak outpost. The story is told from the viewpoint of several of the characters relating the previous year's events to the imperial investigator, Draco, who is based at Eburacum. <br />A year earlier the promotion of Galba to senior tribune after a victory over the Scotti also brought the bitter news to the man of the arrival of Lucius Marcus Flavius and his betrothed, Valeria, to command the Petriana cavalry. The story centres around Valeria she becomes an pawn in the tangle of Galba, Marcus and the Celtic chieftain, Arden Caratacus. The impact of the wilful Valeria on the Hadrian's wall fort is immense. The petty rivalry from her companion, junior tribune Clodius, a young Roman aristocrat eager to prove himself and win her love, and Galba gets things off to a tense footing and the subsequent murder of the captured Odocullin sets in motion a chain of events that leads, ultimately, to disaster for many. <br />Marcus' ill-advised destruction of a sacred Celtic grove brings the scheming Galba to the fore with his Roman deserter spy, Arden Caratacus, leader of the Scotti, who manages to capture Valeria at the second attempt. During her enforced sojourn with the Celts she is eventually won over to their cause and falls, inevitably, in love with Caratacus. Double-dealing, intrigue and an eavesdropped conversation finds her fleeing back to her husband to warn of an impending Celt attack only to discover Galba is ahead of her and has convinced Marcus that she is a treacherous wife. However, it is Galba who has outwitted them all and ends up destroying his two rivals before Lucius Falco steps in to free Arden and allow Valeria and her Celt lover to escape north of the wall after finally destroying Galba. <br />Dietrich's style is brimming with adventure, his prose steady and gripping, the characterisation entirely plausible. With a colourful assortment of supporting characters from both the Roman and Celtic sides of the wall he has crafted a story that is immensely readable and possesses enough historical accuracy to add that necessary touch of realism. His latest, `The Scourge of God', is now available and for one, this new fan of Dietrich's will be purchasing it.	2005-04-22
US	50323648	R2OO8KYXW8JBYR	0312323204	450252146	The River God's Vengeance (SPQR VIII)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	As brilliant as ever	Decius Quintus Caecilius Metellus is back for his eighth installment and JMR doesn't disappoint. <br />It's the interregnum of Quintus Caecilius Metellus Pius Scipio Nasica and our erstwhile hero is three months into his first aedileship having returned from Gaul from his previous outing with Julius Caesar. Being responsible for the maintenance of Rome's public buildings and highways he finds himself picking over the rubble of a collapsed insula, while some astute observations from Hermes, his irreverent personal slave, leads him to commence an investigation of a shoddy construction business that has claimed the lives of the slaves Galatea and Antaeus and over two hundred more inhabitants. And all this whilst he is preparing his own costly munera in order to fulfil his political ambition. <br />As ever, the culprits are somewhat higher up the political ladder than he initially thinks and several warnings from people including his own paterfamilias do not deter our sleuth with a reputation for intractable honesty from launching into a full investigation. Both he and Hermes work their way through dishonest construction foremen, previous aediles, censors, brothels, the Cloaca Maxima and the Forum before uncovering a crime of passion that was merely a pointer to a greater corruption. In the end the initial deaths were some what justified and Decius neatly sinks two great men during an eventful four days, during which the Tiber river floods ensuring, as Marcius Porcius Cato so neatly concludes: \\"the finest manifestation of divine will in my lifetime\\". <br />As ever there are an assortment of colourful characters including Caninus, Marcus Aemilius Scauras,  Justus, Harmodias, Lucilius, Folius and Messala. With him are the Greek physician Asklepiodes and his wife Julia, niece of Caesar. <br />The cast move around Decius with slow inexorability as his Socratic sleuthing takes him into the mire of truth in a manner that is perfect to read. JMR took a long break after the opening novel of the SPQR series but his return in recent novels has proven a major success in the world of the ancient murder mystery. Whilst he showed the likes of Saylor and Davis what to do all those years ago, his newest efforts are right up their with them. Any fan of the genre must read and own JMR's SPQR series and I eagerly look forward to `The Princess and the Pirates'. <br />	2005-04-15
US	50323648	R11X1TH7MFO8YQ	0446532215	815601065	The Elder Gods: Book One of the Dreamers (DREAMERS, BK 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Formulaic but a good formula nonetheless	I hate to say it but Eddings has become formulaic. Lucky the formula is so good, really. <br />The novels always seem to have a bunch of superpowered gods and sorcerors who spend most of their time trying to act in a benevolent parent manner but invariably end up being condescending and treating the 'normal characters like children most of the time. Given the 'human characters' wisecrack their way sarcastically through the plot it doesn't seem to matter. Oh, and they seem to behave in a courtly maner that is so old-fashioned you'd think you were in Castaglione's world. The plots also tend to take the route of 'gods realise their evil other half is surreptiously trying to take over the world so they'd better get their disciples to stop it using some of the kings of the countries to fight big battles at the same time...'. So, I spent the opening hundred pages thinking `What's Belgarath going to be called here? Oh, there's Polgara in the guise of Zelendra, there's Errand (but now he's four people, the main one seems to be Eleria, there's Kheldar now known as Rabbit (he'd be mortified), Barak's now Red-Beard, Lelldorin's now Longbow. It's not just the characters but the indivdual countries traits. The Trogites seem to mimic the Tolenedrans, everyone loves gold, there's a country Aracia's recruiting from that is suspiciously like Algaria etc. etc and the Gods just need 'Bel' or 'Pol' prefixes to be really complete. <br />Anyhow, same plot and characterisation given a face lift. The Elder Gods has the Eddings introducing us to the concept of a cyclical nature of deities (even these gods have to sleep). Currently, the land of Dhrall is 'owned' by Zelendra, Veltan, Aracia and Dahlaine who maintain it in a state of civilisation that seems Late Bronze Age/Early Iron Age. <br />In order to defeat That-Called-The-Vlagh Zelendra and co decide to recruit the more technologically advanced Maags and Trogites to come over to Dhrall and attack the chimeric warriors of the Wasteland who are amassing for an attack on Lattash. In order to do this the four Gods recruit an army from everywhere else with the promise of vast quantities of gold and much love. To help them the Gods take a direct hand, melting paths through ice floes, creating deluges at the shake of a lazy hand and generally getting everyone in place to have a jolly good battle whilst the human characters tiptoe round them in a jolly nice fashion. <br />Eddings is brilliant. There's no denying David created a superb example of the fantasy genre in the early Eighties with the Belgariad and any newcomer to Eddings reading this new series will be equally enthralled. If, however, you're a firm fan of an author who took this genre to fabulous heights then you will find this series does follow a formula in plot, characterisation and action. It's a good formula, but one done much better in the Belgariad and Mallorean and I suspect this'll be the main complaint against it. <br />I'll be buying The Treasured One and then The Cystal Gorge as soon as I can. <br />As ever, if you're a fantasy fan then you don't need to be told to buy an Eddings installment.	2005-03-23
US	50323648	R3S3TNKGUKFGZ3	0380977095	790293218	King of Foxes (Conclave of Shadows, Book 2)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A swashbuckling sequel	Feist's second enthralling delivery in the Conclave of Shadows is as good as the opener. Two years or so have gone by and Tal Hawkins is back in time to think about defending his world championship sword crown whilst surreptitiously getting himself in so much trouble that Duke Alasko has to bail him out and earn his 'gratitude'. What we've come to learn from our carefree Orosini wanderer is that you know that he'll be swashing his finest buckle throughout. As Constable Dennis Dorgan so succinctly puts it very early on to Tal, \\"Because people have an annoying habit of turning up dead when you're in the city.\\" <br />As so it begins. Tal finds himself on a hunt with Duke Alasko, saving his life and bedding his sister, Natalia, before engineering a superb humiliation of Prince Matthew in the royal gymnasium that ensures he has to ask the Duke to join his service for protection. This means Feist can take our swashbuckling hero westwards to the Kingdoms and meetings with more familiar characters such as Duke Jimmy of Krondor. Kaspar has him commit the political assassination of Princess Svetlana before being caught out with his new Keshian assassin/manservant, Amafi, preparing to assassinate a Duke of Roldem. Betrayed he finds himself in his own personal world of Monte Cristo on the Rock known as the Kingdom of Despair with only one arm. Only having five inept guards to manipulate he becomes the de facto ruler of the prison through charisma alone before he engineers a raft escape  through shark infested waters. <br />His return brings a terrible vengeance as he recruits some future slaves to be in his mercenary troop before convincing Pug and most the Kingdom nobles that Kaspar and his evil sorceror henchman Leso Varen are seeking to take over the world and open a new Rift. 3000 troops later he storms Duke Olasko's citadel at Oppardum and saves the day, Princess Natalia and Teal of Blue-Eyed-Wing in order to gain wealth, position and an Orosini bride for the rest of his life. <br />Pug removes Kaspar to the furthest reaches of the world to be an exile, thus opening the way for `Exile's Return' where Kaspar stars. Bizarrely, this was published in the UK before `King of Foxes'. Feist has churned out a sparkling sequel here taking Midkemia a hundred years away from the Riftwar. Admittedly, it doesn't contain anything like the depths of his earlier epics and is more lightweight fill fleshing out the history of Midkemia but it's an enjoyable tale along the lines of the Krondor set. I look forward to Kaspar's return and a novel from his stance will prove interesting. <br />	2005-03-14
US	50323648	R1PNBBTPTWDXA1	0385336632	950447500	The Field of Swords (Emperor, Book 3)	Books	3	39	51	N	N	A gripping tale but historically poor	Knowing full well that Igguldens' retelling of Gaius Julius Caesar's life owes very little to actual historical fact and much to pure fantasy I set about this third installment curious to know precisely what period had gone through the mangle this time and what the result would be. Apart from the wincing at the total exclusion of Marcus Tullius Cicero's finest hour in 63BC in stopping the Catiline Conspiracy (Julius gets the credit here and it's brought forward 4 years as well - never mind), the blatant chronological reversal of Clodius' death in 52 and the invasion of Britain in 55/54, and the casual use of Cabera to act as the soothsayer for the infamous Ides of March quote nearly a decade ahead of reality... I was cautiously optimistic by page 200 or so. <br />The third in Iggulden's Emperor series opens with our young praetor with his Tenth legion in Spain with Brutus and his extraordinarii cavalry. Dark, moody and brooding the mix is swiftly stirred as Brutus' courtesan mother, Servilia, turns up with three girls to make a handsome profit and catch Julius' eye. From there he swiftly returns to the political mire of Rome, coming up against both Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus and Marcus Licinius Crassus as he seeks to establish himself in Rome and take his first consulship. Much of this is given over in two very lengthy episodes - the first his quelling of the Crassus backed Catiline conspiracy, the second over a gladiator contest for Marcus Brutus to be First Sword in Rome. Once this has been achieved Caesar hotfoots it to Gaul with his comrades in tow wearing silver armour to start conquering the land. Battles against the Averni, a quick trip to Britain and back and the infamous siege of Alesia are all dealt with in a thrilling loose style with an interim trip back to Rome by Brutus to get involved with Caesar's daughter, Julia, and quell the infamous street gangs of Milo and Clodius whilst Julius' relationship with Servilia is explored. <br />I confess I find my reaction to Iggulden is to sigh deeply. The historical purist in me reads on in horrified fascination as to what's going to happen next in this historical alternative history, but it is somewhat compelling. I know many reviewers will say that historical accuracy is not what Iggulden's about but it's taken too far. You can get away with the odd explained change for dramatic purposes but it's so wrong it really does detract from what could be so good. <br />History aside I find this the weakest of the three as it is somewhat directionless and the chacterisation fill between major episodes is creating more of a sense of gallivanting adventurers rather than mature personages. Plot and characterisation is all too wooden and I find myself disliking Julius more and more. If it wasn't for the exceptionally brief reference to Caesar's lamentation that he is older than Alexander was when he conquered the world right at the start (and you knew little of Caesar's history) you'd have to ask what his motive for any of his actions was in this novel.  <br />What saves the entire series is that Iggulden CAN tell a story.  <br />So utterly compelling, but, unfortunately, for all the wrong reasons. Another one is due and I have to complete the series but I know the same complaints will probably be there after the next one.	2005-03-01
US	50323648	R1MEZY67594WJN	031232362X	913252287	Saucer: The Conquest	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable if somewhat light sequel	It's 1947 and the infamous Roswell flying saucer starts off Coont's fast flying sequel. A young maverick scientist by the name of Newton Chadwick is present as the Roswell saucer is opened and promptly pockets the headsets that run the saucer before disappearing. Fast forward to present day and we find swashbuckling Rip Cantrell mega rich and mega bored with life after donating the Saharan saucer to the NAS museum. To cap it all Charley Pine has left him to become a co-pilot on the French trips to their moon base. Life is ripe for excitement. <br />For the opener we follow Charley as she pilots the Jeanne D'Arc to the lunar surface noting some inconsistencies in the Pierre Artois led team from the padlocked radiation module that wasn't on the inventory to the nuclear powered devices pointing where they shouldn't. As a result a growing sense of disquiet creeps through the novel whilst Rip seeks to turn an old jahlopy into a hovercraft. <br />As rapidly as the first novel Coonts story rips skyward as Charley first steals her French space plane after discovering his imperial mooness Pierre Artois has an anti-gravity gun with which he targets Earth. Whilst he's destroying areas of Europe and the US if they don't cede sovereignty to him, Charley ends up with Rip flying hijacking their museum-bound saucer and going moonward to stop the meglomanical Artois. <br />What ensues is another rollercoaster of a ride as there's saucer dogfights over the moon and earth, fights in the moonbase, an eternally youthful Newton Chadwick reappears and Egg Cantrell ends up kidnapped as good fights evil in an effort to become true top gun. By the end we've taken the saucers through more twists and turns than the first novel, endured a vast array of wise-cracking and two dimensional supporting characters who move through the story in a very screenplay manner and the guy and gal sort out their minor differences in order to save planet from the bad guys.  Totally enjoyable nonsensical sequel for Coonts who's proving a worthwhile buy to read on that long plane journey...	2005-02-21
US	50323648	R8Z52SH8M9SQX	0399152598	742608578	Black Wind (A Dirk Pitt Novel, No. 18)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The next generation is just as good	Clive Cussler's back and this time the author has his son in tow and Dirk Pitt has given way to his son for most of this latest adventure that pits the evil Korean Kang against Dirk Jr. and his sidekick in a race to find and destroy some WWII biological weapons that sit patiently underwater in rusting Japanese submarines off the Western US coastline. <br />In 1944 Japan's efforts to attack the US mainland failed to reach their targets and now the submarines lie on the Pacific seabed with their deadly cargoes waiting for another nerveless criminal mastermind to make use of them. In 2007,  an evil megalomaniac, Kang, is calmly setting about destroying the US presence in South Korea by assassinating two US diplomats and a corporate CEO before launching the devastating attack during a G7 summit 63 years after their intended delivery date. With his evil henchman Tongju not learning the lesson from James Bond's failed villains (i.e. just shoot Pitt rather than trying to arrange an elaborate death each time) Dirk and Summer find themselves kidnapped after the criminals take the remaining smallpox missiles from (and sink) NUMA's ship. After uncovering the plans from the boastful Kang they nail file their way out of a tidal cavern and escape via Cussler's junk before deciding with the rest of NUMA and a supporting appearance from the US forces to scan the US Pacific coast. In the meantime Kang has fitted his new rocket with a chimera and, after taking over the Sea Launch platform, edges close to the US shore to deliver the Black Wind. An explosive, rocket fuelled climax saves the day. <br />Cussler's formulaic plots for Dirk and co never fail to amuse and grip. Any fan of Dirk Pitt can read any of his novels waiting for certain key characters and actions to take their usual turn and it is just the same here. We start with Dirk Jr. rescuing a beautiful maiden who's about to meet her death (she promptly falls in love with him and they spend the rest of the novel missing a lunch/dinner date - usually because of a car chase where Pitt is in an antique vehicle that somehow staves of mechanical death to confound the gun-toting baddies) then our erstwhile hero pokes his nose in some underwater cavern or around a suspicious looking and poorly disguised ship, getting shot at which then prompts some digging into archives to come up with a flawless best guess as to why it all happens, (and that usually involves the increasingly fatter St Julien Perlmutter and the incredibly lifelike ninth generation computer, Max) having a run in with the even-cooler-under-pressure cameo appearance from Cussler himself (a cameo from Dirk Cussler might have continued the `next generation' theme) before saving the day with seconds to spare from an underwater submersible. Total action nonsense, but totally enjoyable each and every time. <br />As ever, whenever you're in an airport or about to take a long train journey a Clive Cussler novel is a must purchase as it'll make those long hours just fly by.	2005-02-17
US	50323648	RCZUDSEH8TDIZ	0670033723	464565585	Dark Fire: A Novel	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Darkly brilliant	C J Samson's second novel opens three years after the events at Scarnsea and we find our hunched hero, Matthew Shardlake getting involved in a criminal case where Elizabeth Wentworth is accused of the murder of her cousin. The facts are sketchy, Matthew's convinced of her innocence. The only problem is the accused refuses to speak. <br />Cromwell steps in to gain some time from the accused being peine forte et dure but the cost is Matthew must convince the renegade augmentation clerk, Gristwood to hand over the newly re-discovered formula to greek fire. Which swiftly proves impossible as Matthew and his new side-kick, Barak, find Gristwood dead. What follows are three plots lines as Samson weaves them altogether in a tangle so you're never sure which character is actually associated with which nefarious deed. Matthew rides round London, first on Chancery, then on another steed after Chancery winds up dead after saving Matthew's life, with twelve days to save Elizabeth, find out who is removing his cases from him and discover the whereabouts of the alchemist's formula. <br />Into the mix Samson stirs the lawyer, Bealknapp, with his unsavoury eye for financial gain, Sir Richard Rich, who is going round converting dissolved monasteries into tenement deathtraps, Lady Honor Vaughan, famous for her sugar parties and eclectic dinner conversation, the overly boorish and ambitious Lord Norfolk, the poorly lineaged but ever-grasping Serjeant Marchamount,  and Matthew's master again, Lord Cromwell. Amongst it all a host of supporting characters from the downright nasty Wright and Tokey to the apothecary, Guy (from the first novel) move amongst the slums and mansions of London, from the Thames to the suburbs. <br />With Barak at his side they race through St Paul's Cathedral, jump walls and climb down wells, leap from burning buildings and dig up corpses as the pair weave through the growing list of murders to find conspiracy at a personal and political level that reaches fromthe courts to the King. <br />By the end Matthew has unravelled the mysteries, a new political order is in place and loose ends are tied up as he heads north for a quiet life. <br />Samson's writing is electric, clearly at the same level as Susanna Gregory as he brings Tudor London to vivid life where its harshly regulated lifestyle of informers and accusors draws the reader into breathing the very dirty air of such a tormented city. The prose is crisp and precise, the characterisation pointed, the plot effusive. Utterly worth reading and hopefully Samson will produce more tales of his put-upon hero for this reader, at least.	2005-02-15
US	50323648	R1JVZ6QWX3783N	0670032034	443291358	Dissolution	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A tidy opener	C J Samson's murder mystery set at the heart of England's troubled period during Henry VIII's dissolution of the monasteries poses a serious challenge to the other great pseudonymal medieval murder mystery author, Susanna Gregory and also inevitably takes on that great hallmark, The Name of the Rose. <br />If you're a fan of the latter's Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles, this opener with our sleuth, Matthew Shardlake, will not disappoint you. With the imminent `Dark Fire' promising a series then this is one novel you will not waste your time on. <br />It is 1537, and Matthew Shardlake, a lawyer in the pay of Thomas Cromwell, vicar-general, is sent south to Scarnsea to investigate the decapitation of the King's Commissioner, Robert Singleton. In tow is the son of his father's farm steward, Mark, whose previous amorous adventures have seen his standing in the courts plummet. It is a time of major canonical and secular upheaval as Henry VIII seeks to divorce himself from the papacy with the infamous dissolution of the monasteries and our protagonists are firmly behind the star ascendant of Thomas Cromwell. <br />After arriving at Scarnsea the inclement weather forces our blinkered sleuth to remain at the monastery for several days as his view that he merely has to ask in order to obtain the truth proves somewhat naive. With the torturously mad Carthusian monk, Brother Jerome, Prior Mortimus, Abbot Fabian, Sacrist Brother Gabriel, the infirmian, brother Guy and several other assorted ecclesiastical characters plus the peripheral events from the townsfolk such as Justice Copynger, Shardlake finds himself weaving through several tales where everyone has a hidden agenda a deep of mistrust of his high-handed methods of investigation. <br />Eventually, there are three murders to solve, Singleton's, Simon Whelplay's and Orphan Stonegarden's. <br />Mixed in is a silted pond, altar desecration, sordid tales, swords and Mark Poer's burgeoning desire for Alice, the only female onsite. The lot comes together after a rapid return to London which turns our murders into effects of far greater political upheaval as Matthew Shardlake is forced to also confront the fact that his master's character is not as pure as he thought it might be. <br />C J Samson's opener is rather good, actually. The plot is concise, the narrative tight and logical, the characterisation entirely plausible and human. Matthew Shardlake lacks a little empathy and is somewhat naive and comes across as enjoying his power a little too much whilst mildly embittered with his lot in life. <br />All in all a fine effort and I will be looking for Dark Fire immediately.	2005-01-31
US	50323648	R240BR14TGV29	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Neither snow nor rain...	Terry Pratchett's latest Ankh-Morpork effort had me thinking `Kevin Costner' for considerable time, dealing as it does with the Discworld's attempts to gets its failed postal service back in action and one man's forced heroic efforts to do so. Nevertheless, it proves to be another sharp satire from the pen of this iconic author and, whilst perhaps not as exciting as many other previous efforts, is the first step in making the continuing industrial revolution that seems to have gripped Ankh-Morpork over recent novels a firm fact. <br />The thirty-fifth novel introduces a new character to us, the shady Moist von Lipwig, con artiste extraordinaire who has reached the hiatus of his career and is about to hang. One swift resurrection later he finds himself on the receiving end of a proposal from the excellent tyrant, Lord Vetinari, Namely, to resurrect the Ankh-Morpork Post Office or take a plunge to his death. <br />Having taken up the only option available (though Reacher Gilt at the end chooses the wrong option) our crooked hero finds himself in a building filled with undelivered letters and an inability to escape destiny (rapidly enforced by the Golem Pump 19). With  a Costner-esque growing sense of moral righteousness he warms firstly to his task, then to Adora Bell Dearheart and proceeds, with his firm side kicks - the pin-loving Stanley and the ancient Junior Postmaster Mr Groat - to rebuild the Postal Service. In the meantime the privately run clacks service under a conglomerate headed by Reacher Gilt does its best to undermine his efforts (though the Brotherhood of the Order of the Post nearly manages to do that by itself) and the two end up in competition with an eventual much trumpeted race to deliver a message to Genua making the climax of the story. <br />Amongst it all we have stamps, Sane Alex, Undecided Al, Mad Al, the Grand Trunk and it's malfunctioning  Watch Towers, Mr Pony, The Smoking Gnu, Tiddles the post office cat, Miss Maccalariat, Boris the horse (with his kidney rupturing ride to Sto Lat), and Sacharissa Cripslock all watching the mayhem unfold with untold disdain and extreme good humour until Moist saves the day, becomes a hero and breathes life into the Post Office adage that \\"Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom of night stays these couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds.\\" <br />As usual another delight from Pratchett's pen. Read it. <br />	2005-01-10
US	50323648	R1J0D0PI4RE22R	1841491438	49074104	Wizard's Funeral (Red Pavilions)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Better than the first	I bought all three of Kim Hunter's `The Red Pavilions' trilogy and I confess I struggled through the opener and found myself delaying a read of `Wizard's Funeral'. However, when I got round to it one rainy day, I found it a vast improvement on the opener. Primarily because there was a single plot line that runs throughout with the occasional side trip to provide diversion. Which was lacking in the first novel.  <br />Basically, Soldier goes on a few quests again to locate the new High Magus with the unpronounceable palindromic name (as all the wizards in this series) and returns with him and the two Princes from another kingdom whose unruly ways in a perfect world have caused their exile. By unwittingly ordering the raven to free the prisoner in the sealed chamber just after attending the Wizard's funeral (as a kind of thank you) Soldier unleashes the evil wizard (another unpronounceable palindromic name) on Guthrum. Thousands die and Soldier ends up firstly uniting the Carthagan army against the Dog Clans, then having a side quest to an exotic land to recover his now memory-less wife, Layana (and reuniting with her madness cured luckily), who has been cast out of Zamerkand by the evil usurping Chancellor Humbold (who promotes Kaff to a general in the meantime), and finally ends up besieging his adopted home as Queen Vance is executed. <br />All in all a tidy second effort unique in style that takes me right back to Gormenghast at times as our protagonist skips like a Modesitt main character through an Alice in Wonderland world of myth and fairy tale come to life. We learn more of his past as a Scottish clansman before getting set up for the last novel which has to be read now out of sheer curiosity. Hunter's style is interesting and enthralling in a manner caused by never quite settling into a theme or pattern. It is as chaotic as it can be episodic but we now have continuity of main plot as well as main character. <br />If you're an avid fantasy fan give this a go. I suspect you'll like it more and more as you go along if you give it the time it needs.	2004-12-29
US	50323648	R6EFTN6BHGDHQ	0060575301	297732556	The High Lord (The Black Magician Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A promising trilogy	Trudi Canavan culminates her stunning trilogy with `The High Lord', a book nearly twice as long as the opener and twice as impressive in writing style, plot and characterisation. The series has blasted Canavan onto the fantasy scene in a manner that is refreshingly exhilarating in its simple tenacity to adhere to well-oiled tenets that are the mark of a good fantasy novel. This is not to say that there is not room for future improvements, one striking example being Akkarin's and Sonea's own attempt to wander the wilderness which, quite frankly, is utterly pointless and a section in which I found that handy notion of speed-reading coming into effective play. <br />So, the end of the trilogy and extremely fluent to boot. We find Sonea in Year Three (and it still calls for a vision of Hogwarth) learning Black Magic (or Higher Magic, depending on your need to justify it), killing a female Ichani and promptly getting exiled with Akkarin by the Guild. In the meantime Canavan keeps us in touch with the thief-lord Cery who's having his own swashbuckling affair with Savara whilst cleaning up after Akkarin. <br />We finally expand on the plot as we learn of an attempt to invade Kyralia by the Ichani led by Kuriko who nurses a personal grudge against Akkardin and a fervent desire to avenge himself on a battle lost ages ago. A little thin, but never mind. Meanwhile the befuddled Rothen and the still undecided Dannyl leap around ineffectively after their star pupil and enigmatic ex-master in a vague attempt to prevent Akkarin's enormous `I told you so'. Battle after battle rages with the Guild on the losing end as Canavan culls her cast and the Ichani move through the ghost city like the Forsaken slowly being whittled down by less magical methods until the explosive finale at the Guild. It is post-scripted neatly with multiple loose ends tied off but allowing sufficient effort for the next generation. <br />Canavan's opening trilogy has been delightful. At times it is lacking substance, notably the action outside of Imarddin seems directionless at times and the author retreats frequently to the strong prose and plot of the city and there is the occasional loss of reality (even in a fantasy novel you need reality of action) such as the undiscussed evacuation of the city which conveniently happens instantly. Nevertheless, it bodes well for Canavan's future penship. I'd like more novels set in this world as it does offer immense scope and the main characters have a bigger story to tell. Whether or not Canavan returns to this world I will certainly look for her next effort to hit the shelves.	2004-12-14
US	50323648	R218CKHICWAYQY	0575075422	218927881	The Weavers of Saramyr (The Braided Path series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Magisterial fantasy	Chris Wooding's fully fledged trilogy opener, The Weavers of Saramyr, trumpets a stunning talent on the fantasy stage from a young author. It is a tale woven with skill and deft characterisation with its oriental backdrop of a emperor nation that lives on the fear of Abberrants so expertly controlled by the sickenly evil Weavers, represented by Vyrrch. <br />Whenever you start a new fantasy series you find out quite quickly which of the cliched magic conduits the author has settled on, whether it be a ring, a sword, a staff or simply the will and the word. In this case, Wooding has provided a new concept. Magic through masks, or True Masks. The older they are the more powerful they become as they steal the personalities and skills of their previous owners (unfortunately, an image of Jim Carrey cannot help but come to mind). Into this mix is the general populace fear of Aberrants (think X-Men) and a ripe political situation as the Empress Anais' daughter, Lucia, is discovered to be such an Aberrant. Whilst dynastic problems (and a boor of a husband)  assail the Empress and we're on the cusp of civil war, a young woman named Kaiku is brought back from death by her maidservant Asara to find her family destroyed by Shin-Shin. With her own mask in hand (as her only family legacy) she eventually settles on the first stage of a personal quest to avenge her family journeying with Asara and the monk, Tane, to the hidden monastery where the witch stones that blight the land and give the weavers power are hidden. Her personal trials and epiphany are played against a backdrop of a group of Aberrants dedicated to encouraging the skills of those so gifted and eventually formulating a plan to kidnap the Heir-Empress to save her from those who would see her murdered. <br />Whilst Anais and her husband, Durun, deal with a rampaging capital city and civil war through their streets, the select band enter the city sewers to take the Heir-Empress as the ordered world of Blood Erinima collapses into civil strife. As both enemy and friend fall in the climatic chapters, Kaiku learns more of her destiny and Wooding achieves much in bringing a sense of hope and danger to a wrold shifting in its grap on power. <br />I found this a superb fantasy novel, if a trifle lacking in depth occasionally as the author forced plot upon us at a speed that seemed to not give the full consideration and build up it deserved. Several potential earth shattering revelations were thrown in glibly which could have benefited from a few more chapters built around them. Still, it did not detract too much as characterisation and descriptive acumen wove a tightly narrated tale that promised much and delivered often. For this reader, at least, the Skein of Lament will be eagerly sought after.	2004-11-30
US	50323648	R2DHQ0XK02NC1X	184149240X	609181782	3: Scabbard's Song (Red Pavilions)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Overly episodic	I bought all three of Kim Hunter's `The Red Pavilions' trilogy and I confess I struggled through the opener and find myself delaying a read of `Wizard's Funeral'. It became evident fairly early on that this was a first fantasy novel. It was the kind of novel that see-sawed from being good to poor in its plotline. Indeed the episodic nature means that the reader is drawn to some chapters, bored by others. <br />The story concerns the amnesiac knight, Soldier, who awakes on his grassy hill dressed and acting like he has just survived a great battle but he appears to have been transported in both time and place to a fantasy land where Hunter is able to redraw multiple European myths, fables and legends in a new context. From the fantastical to the grotesque our monosyllabic knight lurches through the book adhering to some kind of Arthurian chivalric code whilst turning his hand to all kinds of quests and feuds in an attempt to learn more about his own character. Unfortunately, it comes across as though the author is using the trilogy opener to settle on a character. <br />So, Soldier joins up with  the Carthagan army, befriends the spartan Velion, has a couple of battles, searches for an eagle egg and mothers a dragon, gets a part-time job as a relic sellers assistant, makes an enemy of the Queen's captain, inexplicably marries the Queen's sister, Layana, who is doubly cursed, firstly with the purple madness (which also afflicts Queen Vanda) secondly with one side of her face ruined by the beastman Vau and then sets of on a quest to save his wife which results in several adventures borrowing heavily from myth and fable. Throughout he is assisted by the boy-turned-raven, though `assisted' is perhaps wrong as his magical scabbard actually helps him more than anyone. By the end his wife rejects him (not really...though we're not given any hints why) thus setting up the next novel for his continuing adventures. In the background we have the atypical evil chancellor, Humbold, and the hunted witch-boy who's living with his mother in the sewers and jails of whom, no doubt, great things will appear. <br />This fantasy novel just never delivered. However, just before I'd put it down in exasperation, Hunter would moves into a plotline that was good, flowed and was well drawn. Then it would end and Soldier would inexplicably flounder before taking up on another passionate cause at which point it'd grip this reader again. So, episodic which meant no sense of continuity as the supporting characters dipped in and out at will, almost as though they were needed for Soldier to achieve certain items rather than joining him naturally. I will read the second as no purchase should go unwasted. I just hope it's a vast improvement on this first effort.	2004-11-18
US	50323648	R2PFDE8AKZF53C	0060736631	534637191	Heloise & Abelard: A New Biography	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Scholarly	James Burge's uptodate examination of the lives and letters of the twelfth century tragic lovers, Heloise and Abelard, is a superb piece of scholarship. With an examination of both the original attributed letters and the excerpts now identified as from their original love letters collated by Johannes de  Vepria and first revealed by Constant Mews in 1999, Burge takes us through the known lives of the two ill-fated lovers whilst continually instructing the reader on twelfth century european monastic life and the firm secular power that the Church weilded through its canonical law. <br />The story of Abelard and Heloise (he the greatest logiical philosopher of his age, she a brilliant classical scholar some ten years his junior) who fall in love whilst she studies under him in Paris, their subsequent hasty and secretive marriage, the birth of their child Astralabe, Aberlard's subsequent castration by Heloise envious uncle, Fulbert and their enforced separation to the Orders and literary reconciliation, has echoed down the ages.  <br />The Romeo and Juliet of its time, the erudite, first hand accounts of an altogether human love between two great intellectuals opens up the world of twelfth century europe to us in a way that is priceless. As Burge correctly comments fairly early in the text, the concept of the period being part of the medieval ages and pre-renaissance is farcical in the evidence of the Parisian centres of learning that Abelard founded and taught at. <br />Drawing heavily on the texts, Burge gives us an insight into the personalities of both, showing Abelard as that brilliant, yet socially aggressive, scholar, Heloise as his intellectually equal, yet through what modern terms would denote as `true love', utterly under his charming spell right to the end. <br />The primary source material consists of eight letters, opening with a letter from Aberlard to an unknown correspondent in response to several meetings he has had, putting down what is almost an autobiography. The letter (or a copy) makes its way to Heloise who writes a reply, thus reopening communication between the two. Whilst the opening 200 pages refer heavily to the first letter of each, as Burge's biography catches up with Aberlard's abscondment from St Denis and sojourn near St Troyes at Paraclete then the remaining six letters come into force. Ableard's papal-acknowledged bestowal on Paraclete to Heloise to found her abbey means that the two came into contact and through the letters we are able to see Heloise 'force' Abelard to acknowledge that he is her first true love and her taking the veil was enforced by him upon her. <br />Burge now continues to move through the later stages of Abelard's life, continuing to note his cyclic fortunes, waxing and waning with Stephen de Garlande until the latter finally fell from grace as Bernard de Clairvaux rose to European political pre-eminence and the former finally returned to Paris. In a change of style Burge spends several pages discussing the themes within the hymns of Abelard, a literary examination amongst the historical investigation before reverting to discussions of Abelard's fighting with Clairvaux and the famous Council of Sens where the latter's brilliant rhetoric won the minds of the 'jurors' rendering Abelard speechless. Abelard ended his days condemned for heretical discouse, eventually dying whilst under the hospitality of Abbot Peter and with his death so the story peters out quite quickly, a few pages remaining to briefly cover what little we know of the remaining third of Heloise's life, and some of the known actions of their son before even more quickly covering their escalation within the French national identity and final resting place in Paris together. <br />Burge's work excels in bringing the story, the period and the nature of the philosophy to the reader in a manner that is both readable, informative and deeply stimulating. It is the kind of secondary text that would inspire a reader to go out and purchase the original texts of these brilliant twelfth cenutry lovers and read even further around the entires scope of twelfth century european religion, politics and philosophy. At the same time it does not lose its emotive discussion, humanising both of these people and making their tragic love story rise fresh to a new century of people. This book is highly recommended.	2004-11-18
US	50323648	R2N7CY0PSASZPI	0380977087	492544464	Talon of the Silver Hawk (Conclave of Shadows, Book 1)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Sweepingly grandiose	After reading the opening thirty pages or so of Kieli's fortunate sojourn in the mountains as he under went his Orsini rite of passage I was instantly redrawn into Feist's Midkemian world with a sense of familiarity given I have spent considerable time away from this author. In this new series he moves us to the further East of Midkemia, to the Eastern Kingdoms. <br />After Kieli's entire village and way of life is destroyed by the mercenary band headed by the enigmatic Raven, and he nearly loses his own life, the reborn Talon of the Silver Hawk finds himself in true Garion style mopping out the kitchens at Kendrick's homestead and generally learning about the world outside his village which also includes several amorous run-ins with the ever cheerful Lela. <br />All the while, in true Keill Randor fashion, he recognises he must avenge his people whilst being under the burden of life-debt to Robert who saved his life. His tutelage is begun by the huntsman, Caleb and it is quickly discovered that his patient demeanour reveals an acutely discerning eye for detail and a later aptitude for swordsmanship. All of which is useful to Robert as he seeks to craft Talon into Midkemia's finest assassin. A visit to the nearby town of Latagore widens Feist's characterisation as we learn of the  Duke of Olasko's greater schemes. <br />On returning to Kendrick's and learning of Lela's departure Talon is taken away to the Bitter Sea, to the Sorceror's Isle, to be honed even more into the weapon Magnus and Robert want him to become. After swearing fealty to the Conclave of Shadows, headed by the ever inimitable Pug and Miranda, having yet another amorous adventure with Alysandra (there's a lot of love in this novel for Feist) he escapes three deathwalkers and is then sent back to the Eastern Kingdoms to become a Roldomian nobleman and the finest swordsman in the world. A title gained by winning the tourney. The novel turns to focus on Tal Hawkins' (as he is now known) acceptance intosociety, his winning of the tournament, escaping a suicide Keshian assassin and eventual wholehearted defence of an Ordini village against overwhelming odds headed by Raven. Eventually the denouement comes, Tal gains his first vengeance and is then assigned to the Duke of Olasko to continue the deadly, yet hidden, mission the Conclave has set him. <br />Feist's penmanship is of the highest quality and this new series set in Midkemia provides all the glossy punch that every other novel has done. Continuity of favourite characters, yet with a new generation to follow and marvel at sets Feist as an author at the height of his powers. Long may it continue.	2004-11-05
US	50323648	RKMPWI4UBW2KD	0807122351	435655268	A God Strolling in the Cool of the Evening: A Novel (Pegasus Prize for Literature)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An elegantly crafted novel	Mario de Carvalho's novel set in the fictional town of Tarcisis during the dying years of Marcus Aurelius reign as Emperor of the Roman Empire fully deserves the Pegasus Prize for Literature dealing as it does with a civic leader's attempt over a six month period to deal with several fundamental issues ending with the trial of fervent Christianity in a small town atmosphere that is itself under social change and duress. <br />The story concerns the administration of the sole duumvir (the other dying off quite quickly mid-term), Lucius Valerius Quintius, husband of Mara, focusing on two main areas of action. The first is the impending arrival of the human migration of Moors at the city walls, the other the advent of a Christian sect. Weaving into both is his relationship with Rufus Cardillius, aedile-elect and tavernkeeper and with Iunia Cantaber, daughter of the respected equestrian, Maximus Cantaber, who has become a fervent Christian. <br />After an opening skirmish with Pontius Velutius Modius over the destruction of his house to replace the crumbling city wall and his subsequent suicide and the capture of Arsenna, a highwayman, by his trusted centurion, Aulus, Lucius finds his attempt to emulate his philosopher emperor brings him into odds with the people he is entrusted to care for. His very aloofness removes him from the common mind and he patently struggles at times to understand human nature. All of which stands him in bad stead when he is reluctantly forced to deal with the Christian sect and, more particularly, confront the nature of his personal relationship with Iunia who is determined upon a course of martyrdom. With an assorted supporting cast including Ennius Calpurnius, a senator, Lucius allows events to wash past him in an almost emotionless way as he defends his city from attack and struggles to understand the new religion that has come to his city whilst retaining his philosophical way of life. <br />Partway through Carvalho returns us to Rome fora flashback at the Colesseum where Lucius is singled out personally by Marcus Aurelius for some advice that remains with his for his entire life, if only when he realises he is not following it. <br />The novel is beautifully crafted and the inner struggles portrayed in the book are timeless yet vividly drawn bringing a cast of characters to life in a manner that is both tragic and joyful, full of justice and injustice, yet all the while a sense of fate looms large, an inexorability that social change is slow to come and cannot be rushed. Carvalho's novel fully justifies its recognition.	2004-10-18
US	50323648	R3MEI4XRU5OEPP	0060575298	308042484	The Novice (The Black Magician Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More of the same	Trudi Canavan's second novel, The Novice, was as much a breath of fresh air as the first. Coming from a first time author, it was simple its plot, modest in its aims, precise in its characterisation and kept tidily to those unofficial lines drawn by the fantasy authors in the eighties that are the hallmark of a quality fantasy novel. <br />Canavan chooses to follow two stories here. The first is of our slight heroine, the magically powerful Sonea, she of the slums, a rags to riches story, who has now entered her five year period of training in true Hogwatch style. The second of the Guild Ambassador, Dannyl, ex-pupil of Rothen who has been given a brief by Administrator Lorlen to follow in the footsteps of the black magic practising Highlord, Akkarin. <br />The second plot line allows Canavan to spend most of it having our ambassador struggling with his sexuality as he is tempted by his assistant, Tayend, as he gallivants around Canavan's world. <br />Meanwhile, back at base camp Sonea finds herself on the end of bullying, headed up by the spiteful Regin, to most of which her tutors turn a blind eye on the premise, it's good for her. As her training escalates and her powers grow she leaps ahead in classes (pursued by the ever vengeful Regin), is taken by Akkarin to be his pupil, has a brief flirtation with Rothen's son, Dorrien, spends considerable time investigating Guild forgotten passageways, and passes her year one tests before challenging Regin to formal combat in the Arena which, before you read the ensuing pages, you know she'll win 3 bouts to two. Still... <br />Canavan style borrows heavily from other major players in the fantasy genres and it's no bad thing. She has created a world that is, to put it simply and directly - enjoyable. Given this book took up Year One of Sonea's tutelage, you might expect a set of five more, but perhaps not. Still, I will be actively looking for the imminent UK release of `The High Lord'.	2004-10-11
US	50323648	R1XDQ90CTBGIGX	0333908066	225768317	Prayer Of The Night Shepherd: A Revd Merrily Watkins Mystery (A Merrily Watkins Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The best of the Watkins series but no Crybbe...	Rickman's sixth Merrily Watkins is a huge improvement over the past couple of efforts. With its snowbound denoument it redraws the Rickman reader back into a chilling novel that makes reading this novel at night not something to do easily. Rickman, over the last few novels - essentially the Merrily series - has moved from supernatural to crime thrillers with a supernatural edge and whilst he is making a grand attempt at creating what might be a new genre, it's not quite as good as his purer supernatural efforts. <br />In this latest, Jane has a greater starring role as she moves into womanhood - to Merrily's reluctance - by taking a weekend job up at Stanner Hall near Kington. Jane is working as a kitchen maid for Ben Foley and his wife, Amber (who is acting as the chef) who have resurrected Stanner Hall as a hotel. Dead keen to get the place established Ben is eager to prove the link that the plotline for the Conan Doyle story, Hound of the Baskervilles, was actually based on events initiated by the Chancer family several centuries back and not based on Devonshire links. Inevitably the theory is holding no water with the firmly established Baker League, but is with the White, a spiritual group keen to adhere to the spiritualism that dominates much of Doyle's later life. <br />Two plots lines run (though they must inevitably merge) - the first that of Stanner Hall and the local magistrate, Sebastian Dacre JP. The latter has hired some locals to hunt down a huge black dog he feels is savaging his flock which has its home on the farm of Jeremy Berrows (whose girlfriend, Natalie is also the Stanner Hall hotel manager). This enables our ever-friendly Gomer Parry and Danny to get involved in a few fights whilst Jane runs around trying to make sense of the seances that are now being held at Stanner Hall. The other plot line has our erstwhile self-doubting Deliverance Minister trying to stop her new Sunday service turning into a miracle parlour. She focuses on one Dexter Harris (unwitting culprit in a joyriding tragedy when he was a child) whose boorish character overshadows a greater truth. Unwittingly herself, Merrily finds herself the target for two groups to perform an exorcism whilst in the background a hereditary insanity wreaks revenge on the Kington farmers. <br />The lengthy denouement brings the usual cast of characters of Jane, Lol, Gomer, Merrily, DI Bliss et al together during a snow-bound night at Stanner Hall after Dacre is found dead and the child murderess, Brigid Parsons, claims guilt and a desire to confess all to Merrily. As deception becomes clear and Rickman unravels the family histories and personal links amongst our protagonists it all begins to make a painful sense as he expertly weaves stark relationships in with a spritism that brings Merrily together with all for an exorcism before the all too-human culprit is found. <br />There is no doubt that Rickman is a fine author and he expertly crafts crime thrillers that have that touch of chilling supernatural fear, creating an ambience that the reader can easily visualise and be drawn in to. My only problem is that Rickman's authorship began as pure supernatural thrillers and his legion of fans for that reason will find themselves with a creeping disappointment as the Watkins series becomes more and more of a crime thriller with a meagre touch of the supernatural. In fact, if it ended up on ITV shortly it wouldn't be a surprise. So, as brilliant as ever and Rickman demonstrates yet again the skills of an author at the peak of his powers, but, for this reader at least, I'd like more of the supernatural and less of the crime....	2004-10-04
US	50323648	RSBXKB98IBI2S	006057528X	457745649	The Magicians' Guild (The Black Magician Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A good opener	Trudi Canavan's first novel, The Magician's Guild, was a breath of fresh air. Not unexpectedly as it is coming from a first time author, it was simple in its plot, modest in its aims, precise in its characterisation and kept tidily to those unofficial lines drawn by the fantasy authors in the eighties that are the hallmark of a quality fantasy novel. I have no doubt as the trilogy progresses and more comes from the pen of this author that they style and scope of her novels will broaden markedly as the confidence grows. For now, this is a good opener and promises a new talent on the fantasy stage. <br />The plot is simple and like all good fantasy openers concerns itself with the coming of age of a street urchin - one Sonea - who's participation in what seems to be a teenage exuberant rock throwing session at the bad magicians, quickly reveals a burgeoning talent for magic (though we are never given a reason for its appearance). Class division has given way to deep mistrust and we find ourselves in true Krondor fashion (though not yet up to the levels of Feist's penmanship) in the underworld of the Thieves as Sonea and her protector Cerys spend Part One trying to avoid the magicians who are trying to capture her for benign reasons. The magicians, represented one the one side in the novel by the kindly Rothen and his ex-pupil, Dannyl, and on the other by the overbearing Fergun (the recipient of the stone that broke the magic field in the opening pages) eventually capture Sonea before her wild magic destroys both her and most of the city. <br />What follows is a phase of teaching allowing Canavan to open the world of the Guild to the reader and develop more fully these characters. The `evil' Fergun imprisons Cery in order to force Sonea to join the Guild and carry out some unknown task but is thwarted as the High Lord Akkarin emerges to save the day. By then end Sonea is apprenticed to the Guild under Rothen's kindly tutelage and a far deeper secret and danger is revealed that leads us neatly in to the next novel. <br />This is a fine effort from Canavan, neat and tidy in all aspects and possessing that necessary gripping edge that drives the reader onwards to see if Sonea can come of age before she moves into the wider world that magic inevitably has to offer her. I look forward to the next installment	2004-09-24
US	50323648	R3HUQWML5KRA7Z	0312271190	753868454	The Judgment of Caesar: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Gordianus' weary view on that meeting	Saylor's latest Sub Rosa is as effortlessly spun as the previous novels as he focuses us on the climatic moments of 48BC as Pompey is murdered by Ptolemy and Caesar arrives in Alexandria to find himself imperator of the whole world and under the bewitchment of Cleopatra. As a first hand witness to all these legendary events, Gordianus is able to allow the reader a somewhat cynical and realistic interpretation of events as the political dancing weaves with his own struggle as paterfamilias in a city that is very unlike Rome. <br />The novel opens and finds our somewhat cantankerous and stubborn sleuth heading across the Mare Nostrum to the fabled city of Alexandria to find the cure for his ailing wife, Bethseda. Accompanied by Cassandra's brother, the mute Rupu, and Androcles and Mospus we quickly find the idyllic voyage rudely interrupted by the fleeing fleet of Pompey. Having taken leave of Pompey via a high dive at Brundisium, it is with dismay Gordianus finds himself back in the clutches of the mighty Magnus who spends some time delighting in how he will end our sleuth's life before fortunately getting assassinated on the Egyptian beach. <br />After travelling down the Nile and losing Bethseda to the waters of the fabled river Gordianus and the rest of his family are arrested by the Ptolomaic troops and end up becoming welcomed by the son of Auletes, King Ptolmey. <br />After meeting Cleopatra's spy, the beautiful Merianis, together with her personal bodyguard, Apollodorus, and dealing with Ptolemy's insidious righthand man, Pothinus, Gordianus forces his way through politics and personal troubles. <br />The arrival of Caesar allows us a snapshot into Saylor's version of this famous meeting as Gordianus is present when the rug is unfurled and present again when opening Pompey's Falernian results in the death of Cleopatra's taster. The accusation immediately falls on Meto - with whom Gordianus is have trouble reconciling post-Massilia - whom Gordianus is compelledto defend. Coming two thirds of the way through the novel, as it does, the murder here is not central at all to the story, rather an aside for Saylor's greater effort to retell a fateful month in Mediterranean history. Gordianus carelessly unravels the truth and reconciles to Meto before watching through the fight for Alexandria that erupts between the Romans and Ptolemy until we get a third-hand report of the final accession of Cleopatra.  <br />The weariness that has embodied Gordanius over the past few novels strengthens as he bades farewell to his family and joins Bethseda in the Nile though it is not entirely clear if he will return. Surely Saylor can't pass up the chance to have Gordianus investigate something as the date for one of history's most famous murders looms on the Roman horizon? For one, this reader hopes he does...	2004-09-20
US	50323648	R37JRQVZOE4W7H	0892968125	656801711	Scandal Takes a Holiday:  A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Oh, a delightful scandal	Lindsey Davis' latest Falco finds our sleuth and entire family taking a trip to Rome's port, Ostia, to track down a missing hack who has inexplicably gone missing from the Daily Gazette. The journalist in question, Diocles, writes the infamous scandal column as the pseudonymal Infamia. In the event, the murder (and its solution) takes second place to the far greater kidnap conspiracies that are going on at the port by the officially non-existent pirates. <br />So, Marcus finds himself with Helena Justina and their two toddlers in a vigile-rented apartment whilst Petro and Maia have managed to second a luxury villa owned by the builders-guild headman. After fruitlessly following several dead end leads in his search for the missing Diocles, Helena's studious reading of the journalistic scribblings left behind throw up a single name. Damagoras. Unfortunately, the only person who has a lead on this elusive man is Marcus' brother-in-law, the corpulent shipping clerk, Gaius Baebius, However, by the time the pair arrive at the ex-pirate's home they find themselves on the wrong end of a topiary-attacking madman, Cratidas, and end up in the first of many dark underground cells. <br />At this point the story really takes off as Marcus stumbles over a kidnapping of senator Posidonius' daughter, Rhodoppe. It turns out it is one of a pattern of kidnappings and one that is further complicated when the victim falls in love with one of her kidnappers, Theopompus, who promptly chases after and declares intent to marry her. This unforseen turns of events forces the kidnap gang into the open and an uneasy alliance rapidly self-destructs at Theopompus' funeral after he is also murdered. This enables the vigiles to crack down hard on them. The cast of villains includes opium smoking madams, several prostitutes and thugs and the mysteriuos Illyrian all of whom come to gether to present a formidable task to our family-man sleuth. <br />Throughout the story runs the political themes as theoutgoing Fourth cohort, headed by Brunnius, and the incoming Sixth, headed by Petro and Rubella each seek to claim a policing coup with the breaking of the gang. Add the rest of Marcus' family to the mix, including the first time appearance of Uncle Fulvius, with the entire Camillii family and you realise the Ostian gangs don't really stand a chance. By the end Falco has discovered what happened to Diocles, uncovered corruption at the highest level, and learned to float thus bringing a neat end to the story <br />Davis' foray into the casebook style of the previous Accusers has swiftly gone and we're back to a style that is akin to classics such as `Ode to a Banker'. Marcus has moved on and Helena has to remind him that he is a family man now, but he still hurls himself into the adventures with aplomb and it remains a delightful read. For this reader, this latest installment is a hit and I would probably place it in my top five favourites of the Falco series. Long may they continue.	2004-09-20
US	50323648	R1A2XDEFO0K1J0	0312708610	83390695	Legacies	Books	4	12	13	N	N	If you liked Recluce you'll like this	L.E. Modesitt Jr's opener in his latest series, The Corean Chronicles is an utter gem, but entirely expected. I confess I didn't find the Spellsong quartet as good as the Recluce novels, but with Legacies, Modesitt is back to his flowing best. The novel is written in that style so unique to Modesitt, where the pace of life seems more languid but inexorable as he grow with our primary character and follow him as he matures into a model citizen with that little extra.  The story concerns a herdsman named Alucius, who lives on the Iron Valleys on his stead with his mother, Lucendra and his grandparents, Royalt and Veryl. From an early age he shows great promise in what is called `Talent' with his healing of his ailing grandmother and uncanny ability to communicate directly with the nightram flock (who supply the wool that become harder than steel under pressure). After learning how to become a crack shot from his grandfather and fighting off the alien sandwolves (and forming a relationship with Wendra, daughter of Kyrial the cooper) he is conscripted into the militia where the next three months form the bulk of the story.  Various military rites of passage and a burgeoning Talent (which he must keep hidden) means a swift recognition in the milita and he is promoted through to First Squad Leader and spends considerable time as a scout. It is soon recognised that not only is Alucius a crack shot but has a gift for a cool head under pressure and tactical acumen. His rise to military stardom seems inevitable until, that is he is captured, unconscious, during a battle with the Matrial forces.  Ever since the cataclysm the Matrial has ended four hundred years of anarchy, but has imposed her own matriarchal society where everyone is collared and linked to her own massive Talent giving her power of life and death over all her peoples. They are better off under her but it comes at the price of freedom. Alucius is conscripted into her army and demonstrates the same acumen fighting the Southerners as he did in his own militia. During his time his Talent powers grow ever more and one day a meeting with the ethereal soarers gives a greater sense of destiny until he walks into the Matrial's palace, locates the source of her `chains' and frees the land of the collar before escaping with nearly a hundred men and returning to the Iron Valleys to become a captain in charge of his own company.  Throughout the book the reader grows alongside Alucius as this perfectly good, easy natured yet inexorable force grows physically, mentally and in Talent to become a formidable warrior. Any reader of Modesitt will recognise this style prevalent in all his lead characters. You know nothing can stop them and they plod slowly through all obstacles to reach the conclusion. There is no moralising as Modesitt makes it clear that whatever our hero decides to do is unequivically right and brooks no argument. Alucius' eventual ability to kill with a single thought actually makes him a very dangerous man and given his professed ambition is simply to learn then there is a keen sense that Alucius' actions, at times, just happen to coincide with the perceived correct moral choice rather than due to careful consideration on his part. Indeed, in the world of Corus he seems almost omnipotent.  Modesitt's world of Corus returns us brilliantly to the tour de force that is Recluce both in characterisation, style and plot. It is three attributes that are unique to the author within the fantasy genre. No other author writes quite like Modesitt and, as ever, his novels are a delight to read. This opener is no exception.	2004-09-08
US	50323648	R1LQ7KWQCSO9J	0727861174	316183155	Widow's Pique	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Weakest novel to date	It's unfortunate, but Todd's tenth Claudia Seferius mystery is probably the worst. <br />Todd has has our lovable heroine hotfooting it off to the tiny Roman governed client kingdom of Histria. Failure to read the contractual small print means she thinks she's off to negotiate a lucrative wine contract but after considerable stringing along she discovers that it's in fact to marry the King. After ariving on the peninsula she finds herself chaperoned by the effortlessly personable Mazares, the oak tree that is Pavan and the King's close family  comprising the King's brother, Kazan, his wife Rosmerta, their sons, Marek and Mir and finally Vanu, married to one of the sons but sleeping with Kazan. As usual bodies start turning up although these are historical. - Mazares first wife, Brac - first in line to throne, the old king Dol, Mazares, son and daughter, a boat builder,  the physician until we get quite a list. After dressing up as a goddess for the Zeltane festival Caludia spends most her time figuring out how to escape her impending matimony and the rest half heartedly chasing down ridiculous murder theories and spending time at the local stray waifs farm headed up by Salome, Tobias, Lora and the rest of the white robed Amazons. <br />All the while we get Todd's small chapter inserts into the mind of the murderer - this time called Nosferatu. <br />It's all a bit tedious until Orbilio turns up to turn over Claudia's stomach again and save the day, Claudia, and anyone else who happens to be around. As I said, this is the weakest of the Serferius novels simply because it's not exciting in any way and Claudia's heart's just not in it. Maybe we've a classic case of Davis here - our heroine needs to be in Rome to be at her best. Hopefully the next one will have Claudia back to her spitting, fiery self...	2004-09-02
US	50323648	RA0ZQI9EGVI1R	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not the Code but equally as enigmatic	Oh I liked this. Different to Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code but equally enthralling. A major governmental coverup in the highest echelons of US power has our heroine,the daughter of President Zachary Herney's electoral competitor, Senator Sedgewick Sexton, Rachel, flying from the Arctic to Washington to an offshore Discovery Channel ship in an attempt to reveal NASA's greatest hoax ever. In a manner that is exhilarating in a pure thriller novel that twists, turns and races from its opening political battles to its oil rig-eqsue climax. Delta Force missions, surfing the Milne Ice Shelf, 192 million year old meteorites and an explosive sex scandal all serve up a rollicking novel that keeps the reader hooked from the opening page and never lets go.<br /><br />There are several plotlines with one aim - to unseat the President and force NASA to become a privatised company. One one side is Sedgewick Sexton, being secretly funded by the Space Industry companies with Gabrielle Ashe and NASA's adminisrtator, on the other, Rachel Sexton and Michael Tolland who are racing to disprove the alien life theories that are melting out of the ice. A host of great supporting characters with no one seeming to be who they really are and a conspiracy so vast it has the potential to unseat a President this is one thriller you can't put down.<br /><br />Republished on the back of the author's enormous success with the Da Vinci Code, this early novel shows all the hallmarks of great techno-thriller writing that Dan Brown has now shown. The writing style is not quite a fluid as recent novels, but that is to be expected. What is evident is that the author clearly has the ability to writes a novel that hooks the reader and leaves you wanting more...	2004-08-16
US	50323648	R22BU889GSSI2F	0007183259	326532083	The War at Troy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A tour de force	When I was a child my father used to enthrall me with Bullfinch's Mythology, a book that brought together all the Greek myths (amongst others) and became my night-time reading stories. Heroes and Gods abounded, romance and war filled the childish imagination and it was a delight to hear. What Lindsay Duncan has done is tantamount to the same thing. She has taken the Greek and Trojan legend of Troy and, in a more prosaic style, rewritten down Homer's epic for a modern generation.  <br />Simple, but genius and I can't think why no one has done it before.  <br />As such, whilst there is nothing new in the story other than to give us more detail of the protagonists heritage, it is retold with a flowing style that breathes the kind of life into these myths that Hollywood is doing with its current round of sword and sandals films. <br />We open with the parentage stories of the great Illiad heroes, of Peleus and Thetis, Telamon, Priam, Hesione et al before moving swiftly into the infamous Paris contest, the Golden Apple and the three vainglorious Goddesses, Athena, Hera and Aphrodite. Here, over a small contest does a cursed man (who's father Priam could not bear to see murdered on the prophecies of Cassandra) set in motion a chain of events that has resounded through history - the Trojan War. <br />Clarke breathes real life into the Argive Princes, Odysseus, Menelaus, Palamedes, Achilles, Patroclus, Ajax - all names that echo through history - giving the reader a palpable sense of empathy with each of them. In here we have Achilles overbearing contempt for his King, Agamemmnon, Odysseus' cunning mind, Ajax's heroic directness all of which are pitted against the Trojans. Paris, a devotee to Aphrodite is given a starring role (Hector is not - in direct contrast to the latest Brad Pitt effort) and Clarke spends much of his prose giving us a real sense of destiny and fate with his stealing of Helen and their eventual fateful despair as Troy falls and Menelaus ends up sittingat his wife's bedside. The battles are majestic and epic in their scope, the intrigue crafted with skill, the characterisation deliberate, painstakingly drawn and a credit to Homer and the story is retold in a manner that honours the craft of the original. <br />Lindsay Clarke has repainted The Illiad for a modern audience in a manner that is breaktaking at times, done with a touch of humilty and in a grandiose style. In taking on a new rendition of one literature's greatest texts, he has opened himself to failure against the higest standard and, whilst one cannot better the Iliad, he has not done himself and his audience a disservice in making the attempt. <br />Read it.	2004-08-16
US	50323648	R3BGK7B5BZYJZC	0755301153	425071343	The Eagle's Prey (Eagles of the Empire 5)	Books	2	46	61	N	N	Another sharp installment	Scarrow's fifth Macro and Cato installment, `The Eagle's Prey' shows a maturity in his writing that has not been in evidence in the previous four. It is also a trifle less formulaic as Macro and Cato decide to take a stance outside the usual regimented legion lifestyle and this allows their characters to flourish. In this latest installment we find General Plautius preparing to force the British army, led by Caratacus, King of the Catuvellaunians, into a trap at the Third Tamesis ford. The third cohort of Vespasian's II Augusta is commanded to get to and hold the ford in case the Britons move to cross it before the trap can be sprung. Sounds simple. <br />The third cohort has a new ex-praetorian, Chief Centurion, Maximius who is insecure and condescending to Cato, seeing polots and conspiracies whererever he turns. The other five centurions, Antonius, Tullius, Felix, Macro, and Cato are pitted against each other as his style of leadership forments a growing anger. <br />Fairly immediately the tone for the entire novel is set as Maximius diverts from his goal to reach the ford to hund down a band of Britons who have sacked the Batavian Fort (commanded by Maximius' friend) and the resultant debacle means Macro and his century fighting a heroic mid stream battle against the entire British army as the rest of the cohort arrive too late to prevent Caratacus escaping. A clear failure on Maximius part to do as ordered. As Maximius blames everyone else other than himself and with the reappearance of Narcissus, Claudis' freedman, means that only decimation of the third cohort will suffice. <br />Cato draws a black pebble and is sentenced to death. What ensues is a political struggle as Vespasian roundly refuses to condemn the men, drawing Plautius' wrath and Macro and Figulus (Cato's optio) take mattes into their own hands by helping them escape into the marshes. <br />What follows is a test of Cato's leadership as he leads a slowly reducing number of men into the marshes that Caratacus is hiding in to scavenge and get captured by the Britons. In the meantime Maximius, Macro and the rest of the third cohort are ordered into the valley around the marsh to brutalise the framers in order to draw Caratacus out. The remainder is an enjoyable romp through first century Britain as Cato and and Macro survive their ordeals, capture Caratacus and manage to get away with Cato's death sentence and Marco gross insubordination until we reach a climatic moment in the series as they are feted in the success and end up on a British port with Vespasian to head back to Rome. <br />The series has reached a turning point with Scarrow ready to chance his two heroes in more unfamilar surroundings (as he indicates in the Author's Note) and it'll be fascinating to see what comes next in the adventures. What is blatantly clear however, is that this Norwich Unversity lecturer must keep writing these novels, even if it is detrimental to the time he spends lecturing...	2004-08-13
US	50323648	R17F6XUO44ML45	0575072733	158227988	The Devil in Green (Dark Age)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	In danger of being the Next Generation	The opener in Mark Chadbourn second trilogy of a New Britain (though not quite what Blair had in mind), `The Devil in Green' is set couple of decades beyond the initial adventures of the Age of Misrule. Science is gone, the old ways have returned and the Five Brothers and Sisters of the Dragons are spoken of as mythical heroes. Here, Chadbourn focuses his `further adventures' down to Salisbury (with the odd appearance by Old Sarum) and specifically its Cathedral. Where as the `Age of Misrule' covered most of Britain, now we get a darker novel created through a sense of claustrophobia. <br />The plot concerns one Mallory, a maverick mercenary who helps the fleeing Miller on his way into Salisbury to join the newly created Knights Templar. After being attacked en route they arrive and are drawn into a cloistered world of Inqusition renaissance and bishopric powermongers as a militant group set up a fortress in the Cathedral and its grounds. The ever sceptical Mallory finds his own brand of cyncism frowned upon by the likes of Stefan and Cornelius and the thuggish militia captains, Hipgrave, Broderick and Blaine. <br />A couple of excusions to the plain brings Mallory into contact with some Travellers, led by Sophie, and the Otherworld where he discovers he is a Brother of Dragons. There he is bequeathed the Sword Llyrwyn and after surviving another deadly attackd gets back to the grotesquely altered Cathedral with his compatriots, Miller, Daniels, and Gardner. Hipgrave laters turns up. <br />The tardis-like Cathedral allows Mallory to come into contact with the Caretaker and eventually Cuernuos who has been attacking the Cathedral to regain the object that the evil Stefan has stolen. Two brutal murders later and Mallory and Sophie end up being rescued by a Fabulous beast and the truth behind the St Cuthbert relic is finally revealed. <br />This new Chadbourn effort isn't bad, but it's not as good as the Age of Misrule opener. <br />	2004-08-02
US	50323648	R27F19IQZ03VTY	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Utterly gripping	The only annoying thing about this book was that I kept getting interrupted as I tried to read it. Having never read a Dan Brown book I finally succumbed to friends' pressure and protestations of superlative thriller writing and started this effort, steering away from the Da Vinci code. Now I rue the time wasted between publication and reading.    Quite simply this is the finest thriller writer to emerge in recent years. In Angels and Demons, Dan Brown combined a taste of cutting edge science with the deepest Illuminati symbology and secret societes and the two thousand year history of the Catholic Church into a blockbuster of immense proportions.    From the opening sequences at CERN, Geneva where art history professor, Robert Langton is called in by Director Kohler to investigate the branded murder of one of its leading scientists to the final fateful denoument in the Vatican, Brown races us alongside Robert and Vittoria on a cyptic map through the Holy City as they unravel the Gallileo-inspired poem by Milton to discover where the four leading Cardinal candidates for the Papacy are scheduled to die under the concepts of Earth, Air, Fire and Water.  The action takes place over a single long day as the pair seek to locate the missing anti-matter bomb, decode the poem and locate the four angel churches of Bernini where the gruesome murders are scheduled by the Hassasin and finally reach the bomb. A splendid cast of supporting characters, the BBC camera crew, Glick and Macri, the new papal leader in the form of the Camerlengo, the Swiss Guard Commander, Olivetti and a host of others keep our senses finely tuned as we race against time.  Dan Brown is a thriller writer that creates as much tension and excitement as could possibly be wished for and any reader will gets instantly hooked into a one-sitting read. I've not come across something this good, since Stel Pavlou's `Decipher'. Sure, it can be criticised for simple plot, extravagant scientific and conspiracy theoryverbiage and it does sermonise but that's not the point. It's a fictional thriller and one thing it achieves admirably.... is it gripping.    A must read for a fan of the thriller genre.	2004-07-30
US	50323648	R275565U7AXU	0316861855	191795897	10: The Hand of Justice (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Another fine effort	Pseudonymal Susanna Gregory's tenth Matthew Bartholomew mystery is as brilliant as the previous nine. The mark of a good mystery author is the ability to confound the audience every time. The majority of authors, like any good crossword setter tends to evidence similar sleuthing patterns so familiarity leads to quick diagnosis from the reader. Not from Gregory whose mind manages to twist  the reader deviously through the maze that is fourteenth century Cambridge with a verve that is truly remarkable.<BR>The latest also introduces a new link as the prologue to the last effort which found Josse dead in a snow drift actually proves a key link to the mystery contained within this novel. Very neat. There is also continuity of mystery in the re-appearance of Rob Thorpe and Edward Mortimer, two ruffians who were the culprits in an even earlier novel and the influence of the Hand, that non-relic that Michael and Matt revealed as previously attached to the simpleton, Peterkin Starre in another novel. So, not just continuity of time and character, but also of mysteries. However, it does not mean you have to have read the previous novels but does add another touch of delight to those who have.<BR>So...more murders...more mystery and lots of canonical and secular intrigue. The story opens with the drunken Thomas Mortimer (owner of the Mortimer Mill) killing Lenne and maiming Isnard. Swiftly followed by the deaths in the King's Mill of the Gonville scholar, Bottisham, and the wealthy grocer (and King's Mill patron) Deschalers who are located by Matt and Michael with nails driven through their palate and crushed in the water mill.<BR>More characters come to Cambridge. The introduction of Gonville Hall allows a new physician, Rougham, its Master, Pulham, and several others. The return of Rob and Edward (who have received a King's Pardon for their crimes) to do mischief is tied into the feud between the Mortimer Mill which has turned its hand to fulling, and the King's Mill. The intercession of a King's Commission to rule on the two mills raises the Cambridge temperature considerably. On one side we have the Mortimer clan, legally represented by Gonville, on the other a merchant conglomerate comprising Mayor Morice, Cheney the spice merchant, Bernarde the Miller, Lavenham the apothecary (and his voluptuous wife, Isobel) and the dead Deschalers. Meanwhile, in Michaelhouse, three of Matt's students take more of a starring role, Redmeadow, Quenhyth and Denyman and the key cast list is rounded off with Master Warde of Valence Marie, the new physician Paxtone, Wynewyk, Tulyet and Tynkell (whose physiology proves a mystery in itself).<BR>Three deaths are swiftly followed by the murder of Bosel the Beggar and the arrival of the addled Bess whom Matilde takes under her Frail Sisters wing. By the time Lavenham's workplace goes up in flames Gregory's death count hits twelve (via henbane most of the time as we eventually discover) as Warde, Bess, Lavenham, Isobel, Bernarde, Rob Thorpe, Edward Mortimer, Thomas Mortimer, Mistress Lenne (natural causes in a startling turn) all wind up dead.<BR>During the book , Matt allows himself to get diverted by a brewing personal feud with Rougham, who is clearly imcompetent, who thinks Matt has a secretum secretorum - a panacea - and we get steered down the wrong path through Michael and Matt several times until one very bedraggled fake rat acts as Matt's epiphany. By the end we have our single culprit, discover the motives were all different and there was no conspiracy and Matt has a wealth of new books to keep him company whilst Michael continues to eat his way through Cambridge.<BR>Gregory has added another fine achievement to her Chronicles and it is all the more remarkable as the majority of key players are based on historical reality. Her grasp of medieval Cambridge is excellent, the narrative is gripping, the plots endless but controlled and there is a vibrancy throughout that makes this series an absolute must read for any fan of the genre.<BR>More needs to come from the pen of this fine author.	2004-07-08
US	50323648	R1VFXPMQTBFGUQ	0575603224	154160407	Always Forever (The Age of Misrule, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fitting climax to a celtic future	Chadbourn's final book in the `Age of Misrule' is a sparkling read where the Quincunx of Church, Shavi, Veitch, Laura and Ruth lead the Tuatha De'Danaan into battle against the Fomorri and Balor. Ruth and Church are on the Waverunner, a magical ship-Tardis where they save and gain the respect of the Danaan. Church and Baccharus form a great fighting friendship after Callow and the Nightwalkers storm the ship, capture Manannan and bring the Wish-Hex with which to unlease a great plague to destroy the Golden Ones. Ruth becomes over more powerful, whilst, a world away, Veitch enters the underworld, Orpheus-style to rescude Shavi, whilst Tom gains immense power from the most ancient of Gods enabling him to control deities such as Epona.<BR>The circle is turning as our human Fragile Creatures' realise the Pendragon Spirit and become leaders in their own right.<BR>Laura reawakes after birthing Balor and finds her self with the Bone Inspector. During the titantic struggle Church realises his love for Ruth and the pair head for the  Western Isles, home to the Danaan, so Church can take the water from the Pool of wishes to cleanse himself from the Roisin Dubh's taint. There they discover the Danaan are on the verge of civil war over the potential of humans but manage to secure the aid of the Golden ones in unleashing another war on Balor and the Fomorri. What follows is a battle royal as the three separate armies converge on London, one headed by Ruth and Veitch, the other by Church, Tom and the Bone Inspector, the final by Laura and Shavi. Along the way they fight every dark creature under the mythical sun, crawl through more London tunnels that we ever knew existed and find their own personal glory. Come the denoument we discover the unwitting traitor, people die nobly and Balor is defeated. However, there is a cyclical ending with Church and hope for a new beginning.<BR>All in all a great trilogy that brings together many Celtic myths and weaves a fine tale around them that drags the reader in. The central characterisation across the trilogy is not terribly strong but the supporting cast are well drawn and provide enough support. Of the three, this final novel is the best as Chadbourn seems to relax in his writing style, the first half given to the Waverunner being the best of it. The denoument is suitably climatic and not cliched. So all in all a good first series from this author and well worth any fan of Celtic fantasy reading.	2004-06-24
US	50323648	RYS9GGJGYT38A	0755301137	806028002	The Eagle and the Wolves (Eagles of the Empire 4)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Another sterling installment	Scarrow's fourth adventure of our two heroes, Macro and Cato, has the two stepping out of the recovery ward in Calleva (Cato grumbling about his terrible rib injury that might end his career - though, suspiciously all pain seems to be forgotten by page hundred or so, making Scarrow's consistency questionable) and being ordered by Vespasian to raise two auxiliary cohorts to defend the Atrebatan capital. The situation is extremely tricky, widespread food shortages, constant raids by the Durotriges, and Plautius chasing of Caratacus' army deep into the territory of the Silures.<BR>With the aging client-king Verica trying to secure his people the bext possible vantage as subjects of the Roman whilst ensuring annexation does not occur and the hotheaded idealistic younger celtic men (spearheaded by Tincommius) fomenting discord, we're on a rollercoaster of a ride.<BR>Both the newly centurionated Cato and Macro take charge, drilling and educating the Britons in the true mettle of the Roman II Augusta and having several necessary arguments along the way until they eventually proudly blood them in a skirmish against the Durotriges who are attacking one of the supply columns. A sense of unity is created with the creation of the Eagles and the Wolves but discord threatens when first the standard bearer, Bedriacus, is murdered, then Artax is killed by Cato apparently attempting to take Verica's life.<BR>Eventually Plautius realises he's been chasing shadows and Caratcus' army has travelled south of the Tamesis to aid the Durotrigans who have now attacked Calleva with the help of several of the Atrebatans. What follows is a defense of heroic proportions as both centurions, a handful of legionaries and the auxiliaries defend the compound, royal enclosure and Verica's life before first Vespasian with a couple of cohorts, then Plautius arrive. Mixed in is a scheming tribune Quntilius (a poor replacement for the effervescent Vitellius) who wants to be the first procurator of the client kingdom of the Atrebates (he does achieve his aim but his poor management and cowardice are noted).<BR>The latest installment adds more weight to Scarrow's resume, and the adventures of Cato and Macro are a refreshing breeze through the Roman historical genre. It is not designed for the historical purist and to pick holes in for inaccuracy of place, time and context misses the point of these novels. Long may they continue.	2004-06-22
US	50323648	R27EYQ7R82T7TQ	0575066814	504356428	Darkest Hour (The Age of Misrule)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	The battle continues	Chadbourn's second in the `Age of Misrule' is kind enough to open with a synposis of the previous novel, `World's End'. The story picks up promptly as our famous five learn that the essence of Balor is about to be given a physical host in the vast caverns under Edinburgh and only they can prevent it. With the vainglorious Tuatha de'Danaan ever present Church, Ruth, Veitch, Shavi and Laura (whose cynicism and self pity has becoming thoroughly grating) set off with their mentor Tom to stop the Fomorri from releasing their leader into the world.<BR>However, upon arrival in the Scottish capital we find a particularly nasty element of Celtic folklore made incarnate - the Calliach Bheur, pretty much undefeatable and bringer of winter to the land. As this hag moves through the city killing at will to protect the essence of Balor in time for the August 1 ritual, Shavi and Laura manage to defy the Bone Inspector and release the gloriously insane Maponus to do battle with her. Meanwhile, the now lupercini Callow kidnaps Ruth and she ends up in the clutches of Calatin who promptly forces the essence of Balor into her in the form of a Black Pearl. Now pregnant with the dark one, weeks remain until his rebirth, alien-style.<BR>What follows is a race north and south, Veitch and Tom to plead assistance from Tom's once-captor, the Queen of the Danaan, Ruth and Church head to Otherworld to Dian Cecht, Shavi attempts to join with the Bone Inspector to reimprison Maponus and in the interim Church has to deal with the emotional wrangling of Ruth, Laura and Niamh. Eventually, the second denouement occurs with a moment of great sacrifice, two characters die (though you suspect the Pendragon spirit will ensure a resurrection), Balor gets reborn and a host of assorted characters get removed and replaced with new ones.<BR>My only concern with this novel, is the author's continued use of drugs to achieve connection to the spiritual side of the new world. Its over-emphasis is disconcerting attimes and I wonder if it is truly necessary. This aside, whilst not as good as the opener, it serves up enough thrills and spills in an England turned back to magic to ensure the third and final novel is read.	2004-06-21
US	50323648	RJQZAED66NOM9	0755305167	700142426	The Ghosts of Glevum	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Better than the last, but not the best	The sixth Libertus mystery from Rosemary Rowe plunges us immediately into a difficult situation as Marcus Aurelius Septimus, Libertus? patron, ends up accused of the murder of one corpulent Gaius Praxus, military commander at his own banquet, found dead in the vomitorium. AfterGovernor Pertinax?s departure from Britain, Septimus, Mellitus and Praxus were power sharing until a successor was sent by Commodus. Now Praxus is dead and Mellitus accuses Marcus of his murder. As Libertus? patron is hauled off to jail, Marcus? wife,  Julia Delicta, asks him to help his patron and our sleuth disappears home before the avenging Praxus guard, headed by the bullish Bullface, can grab him.<BR>For considerable time, Libertus finds himself on the run as he tries to understand what has happened and get some details from Golbo, the slave boy attending the vomitorium that Marcus inexplicably dismissed just before the murder, before he himself is falsely accused of complicity. This leads to a nightmarish journey into the more unsavoury areas of Glevum as he is kidnapped by a group of beggars and thieves (The Ghosts of Glevum) who sit in mock council to decide his fate. Forced into ?hiring? them to save his own skin, Libertus makes use of Sosso, the leader of the ragtail band, Parva a young prostitute, Cornovacus, a thief, Lercius, an insane thug, Tullio, the riverman, Molendinarius, the firewood-seller and his wife all of whom are under the ?patronage? of Grossus.<BR>His own house burned down, Gwellia and Junio safely in Corfinium and finding Golbo dead enables Libertus, by using these ?Ghosts? who hear everything and can get into anywhere in Glevum, to figure out who the murderer was and deduce the motive behind the apparent treasonous scroll of Marcus that has come to light. Eventually, the facts are teased out and the traitorous ?ghost? comes to light before being killed by his own people. There is no denouement with the culprits as we skip to Marcus? freedom at the end, but are advised the conspirators and murderer have been apprehended.<BR>The previous Libertus offering was weaker than the rest because it cast our sleuthing hero in a light that didn?t match his previous characterisation. This effort returns us to the old Libertus we know though I get the impression that Rowe has unfortunately restricted herself her with this forcing of Libertus into the Glevum underworld. It ensures an intellectual puzzling of the truth using informants rather than any free sleuthing himself and no empathy with the supporting cast is delivered. So, whilst better than the Legatus Affair, not as good as the first four.	2004-06-17
US	50323648	R28TKO2RR3762E	0765309866	944061381	Medalon: Book One of the Hythrun Chronicles	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Epic, awesome: a must read	The UK paperback jacket of Jennifer Fallon's opener in the Demon Child trilogy (Hythrun Trilogy in the US) caught me off guard slightly as it has a distinctive science fiction approach to its artwork. Having never come across Fallon, I was pleasantly surprised to find a fantasy novel that looks to combine the best of Jordan and Modesitt.<BR>The story concerns Tarja Tenragan, a dashing, battle hardened and somewhat cynical Defender of the Medalon realm whom we first encounter punching out an overly arrogant captain called Loclon, and R'Shiel, his half-sister, a Probate the the Sisterhood - a firmly secular group who rule this central state, surrounded on all sides by god-fearing heathens, if you believe the propaganda. The irony that this state atheism is actually incorrect as we meet the Primal and Incidental Gods fairly early on in this adventure - the God of Thieves and Goddess of Love featuring heavily during an episode at the prisoner town of Grimwild. Tarja and R'Shiel come to realise that they are not, in fact related and that R'Shiel is the Demon Child, fated to kill the God Xaphista or die trying. At a human level their adversary is the resplendant wicked stepmother, Joyhinia, whose ruthless cunning secures her the leadership of the Medalon sisterhood after ousting Mahina and with complete disregard for her childrens' wellbeing gets them captured during a growing insurgency and carted off to Grimwild. At a deified level she is being hunted by the God Xaphista and his horde of fanatical Kairen Priests.<BR>What follows is a race through Medalon as they first escape, prove to their rebel friends that Tarja did not betray them and R'Shiel gets captured by a Kairen priest and Lord Pieter, the Kairen Envoy. One explosive moment later on the boat we finally get to hear the truth behind her heritage as demon-created dragons enter the fray and we learn that the once-thought extinct Harshini are in fact alive and that R'Shiel is the daughter of Lorandranek te Ortyn, the dead brother to King Korandellen.<BR>With it comes the explanation that the demon child has unlimited access to magic (normal Harshini can only access small amounts - more with a God's help) but her human blood means she can use it to destroy. All in all a potent weapon.<BR>Fallon's opener in the trilogy is explosively impressive combining powerful plot, plausible characterisation and effortless writing style to create a novel that is as thrilling to read as any Eddings or Feist. There has been a dearth of quality new fantasy writers over recent years and Fallon's advent has come at exactly the right time. Any fan of this genre must read this.	2004-06-15
US	50323648	R2SI33ZSMUU1TT	0712616152	53816720	Aristotle and the Secrets of Life	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Quality but not gripping	Margaret Doody's third installment of Stephanos and Aristotle, `The Secrets of Life' is a crafted book, that brings to vibrant life ancient Athens. Following on closely from the previous, `Poetic Justice' we find Stephanos in search of a wife and Aristotle about to mourn the death of his dear wife, Pythias and stillborn son. As ever, things are not settled in the political cauldron that is fourth century BC Athens as the pro-Macedonian factions find themselves on the receiving sacrilegeous end of dead animal parts on their herms, including our erstwhile heroes.<BR>Meanwhile a large portion of the opening two hundred or so pages is given over to the complexities of Athenian marriages as Stephanos settles on Philomena as his future bride, but then discovers from her father, Smikrenes, that her mother no longer lives with them but rather with her father and there is a brother living miles away he needs to see to sort out questions about inheritence.<BR>As a result of his betrothal difficulties and Aristotle's personal loss they set off on a journey across Greece, ostensibly to return Parmenion, son of Arkhebios (one of Aristotle's stranger students) to his father and find Philokles, Philoemena's uncle. What follows is a lengthy description of Stephanos' own Argonautica as they travel through the islands that make up the Kyklades on the good ship Eudaimaon under the guidance of Captain Aiskhines who winds up dead on Naxos. On the way they encounter a motley crew of passangers, including the overly suspicious lame slave Doris and her dog and Philokhorus, who manages to inexplicably get kidnapped and dumped in a pigsty at Mykonos. Nevertheless, they manage to leave Naxos on a ship under Captain Nikias, the Nike. From there we leap via a storm to Kos to offload the melancholic Parmenion, learning his father has been killed along the way. In a stroke of luck, Stephanos finds his quarry is now based at Kos but is currently off-island. He takes advantage of an Alexandrian sponsored request to take a trip to Asia Minor with Aristotle and they are given a secret mission to transport some gold back to Athens by Harpalos and Kallisthenes (Aristote's nephew and personal scribe to Alexander). <BR>On the return trip to Kos (with a stinking horsehide) they bump into Captain Nikias and the Laurion family ending up on the Nike to Kos with a seedy pilgrim. Diverting to an islet for repairs they discover Peleus' corpse wrapped in a rug amongst the items for transport and then find that Captain Nikias is actually a pirate. He holds them all captive, subjects Stephanos to beatings, torments Aristotle and brutally murders Philokleia, thus causing her parents' suicides. Escaping, after poisoning the pirates' communal meal, with the aid of a terrified octopus they are rescued by Philokhorus and promptly return to kill the pirates. <BR>On return to Kos a conversation with Parmenion unravels the mysteries that have plagued their journey and they begin to see action and counteraction between those spying on Aristotle and those aiding him (all unbeknown to our heroes) before finally leading back to the instigator of the entire plot. Unfortunately, they cannot act against the man who has caused seven murders. As a footnote, Stephanos concludes his business with Philokles and they return to Athens to prepare for marriage.<BR>The Secrets of Life comes across as a Pausanian travelogue as we are subjected to overflowing descriptions of the Greek Islands with various mythological commentary. All of which serves more to tell us about the author's personal command of Greek history, geography and myth than to actually contribute to the story. Doody can write very well, her narrative flows and her grasp of peripatetic philosophy brings Aristotle to life. However...the Stephanos novels lack a key ingredient. They aren't gripping. There is no incentive to turn the page (at least for the first four hundred pages of the paperback version). As such it took me a long timeto read this as I read other books whilst slowly edging through this third effort. So, whilst the quality of subject is apparent, the page-turning quality never kicks in. Perhaps the fourth novel will rectify this.	2004-06-10
US	50323648	R1TR0LV0VZULZB	0345452909	789985159	My Just Desire: The Life of Bess Raleigh, Wife to Sir Walter	Books	5	16	17	N	N	One of England's great matriarchs	Anna Beer's biography of Bess Ralegh follows a current trend amongst English literary historians who are intent on re-examining the supporting cast of English Tudor and Stuart history. In the same vein as Weir, Gristwood and Somerset, she has produced an in depth look at a single aristocratic female set against a common backdrop, in this case, Elizabethan England.<BR>Opening with her own fictionalised account of Bess early morning as Gentlewoman of the Privy Chamber, we find our subject, Bess Throckmorton, five months pregnant which leads to a brief discourse on the sexual politics that pervaded much of Elizabethan politics. In chronological manner, Beer gives an early account of Bess life, of her Throckmorton relatives who constantly interfered in matters political meaning they often got send to Court, of her mother Anna and her presentation to the Court in 1584. Beer also weaves in an account of the major events of the time featuring Mary, Queen of Scots, Essex, Dudley et al before focusing on Bess' education which was \\"neither democratizing nor meritocratic\\". In parallel runs the biography of her future husband, Walter Ralegh and the sexual scandals that seem to have been rife at Court.<BR>(...)<BR>Beer, in a simple and entertaining style, has created a story of a woman who was, at first, infatuated with a charming adventurer, then married to one of the most powerful men in England, risking her Queen's fury, then a stoical and steadfast wife displaying brilliant political and legal acumen to keep the Ralegh and Throckmorton family afloat during years of political upheaval and royal dynastical change. Ever-loyal to her increasingly disillusioned husband and afterwards the consummate matriarch it lends credence to the statement that behind every great man there stands a greater woman. <BR>Well worth reading.	2004-06-09
US	50323648	R1W3UPRQZJA4Z6	1857989805	650218494	World's End (The Age of Misrule : Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An epic alternative future	Five years after its first publication I finally get round to reading Chadbourn's opener in the `Age of Misrule' and find I should have read it back then. However, the bonus is that I can read the other two immediately after.<BR>Opening in a London pea-souper, Jack Churchill and Ruth Gallagher  arrive at the scene of a scuffle which rapidly becomes a murder that leaves them firstly unconscious then traumatised. On waking and then undergoing hypnotherapy they come to realise that the duality that is the world is about to end, that science is shortly to die and magic to regain it's place in the world. What follows is a manic car chase down the M4 as they are hunted by a dragon, one of the Fabulous beasts and then stalked by the Baobhan Sith.<BR>Over the course of the next hundred or so pages we learn that Ruth and Church are two of the Five Brothers and Sisters of the Dragon, fated to save the world from the return of the Fomorii, the fantastically evil enemies of the Tuatha De Danann.<br />After meeting the third sister, the overly cynical Laura and being tasked by one of the remaining Tuatha De Danann to find the four objects of power (Stone of Fal, Sword of Nuada, Spear of Lugh, Cauldron of Dagda) by Beltane they find themselves being hunted across Southern England as a lantern of power directs them to each object. After quickly gaining the stone in Avebury, Church and Tom (an aging hippy who has visited the Otherlands and has become the five's mentor) are caught by the Formorri leader and tortured, before they escape with new brother Dragon, Veitch. Laura and Ruth meet up with the fifth brother, Shavri and narrowly escape capture by the Wild Hunt. All the while science continues to fail and the countryside is beginning to realise that the stuff of fairy tales is coming true, whilst the great cities slumber unprepared.<BR>The chase truly begins as they move to Glastonbury Tor for the cauldron, or Graal, to Tintagel for the Sword and deepest Wales for the final spear before hurtling northwards through the Lake District. During the events each experiences their own personal odyssey as we are introduced to the special skills that make up the quintet. However, the sum is always greater than the parts. Having recovered all then losing the artefacts they defeat the Erle King and bring the objects together for Beltane and free the Danann who drive off the Formorri. The victory comes at price as the Danann claim an intent to stay on Earth and claim it for themselves and we conclude with the British government finally broadcasting to a nation the darkness that lies ahead.<BR>Chadbourn's first of three is a sparkling read, weaving multiple Celtic myths together to reopen a Britain that has much of its folklore in mistier times. Providing a new future for the island nation and bringing together some peculiarly British characters (who do need some more work to become more rounded) it is a magisterial tour de force from this author that any fantasy fan will enjoy.	2004-06-07
US	50323648	RVJK35ZLSV2Y3	031610910X	387490548	1: Great Tales from English History: The Truth About King Arthur, Lady Godiva, Richard the Lionheart, and More	Books	4	34	34	N	N	A fascinating ancedotal history	Lacey's latest effort is superlative simply because it achieves what it states in  its introduction. Namely, to provide a series of anecdotal storeis regarding historical figures any English person simply should  know about. As he blandly states, history drops of the curricula quite early on in the english school and the history there is focuses on thematic history rather than factual. I recall dropping history at an early age because it was all about the political twentieth century and didn't really go into our history prior to the Industrial Revolution.<BR>Lacey seeks to rectify that with his delightful and accurate stories about the greatest historcial figures from England's past, cheerfully admitting where he is simply adding to the `word-of-mouth' means of keeping history alive (albeit in the written format) and that he has no primary evidence for the stories. As such we are treated to stories that are part of English folklore, such as King Arthur, Whitby, Cheddar Man, King Alfred, Robin Hood and more. Each is told is a factual manner but doesn't forget that the primary motive for history is storytelling, hence the anecdotal style. The sequence of short tales means you can dip in and out of the book, rather than having to read it staight through (though this is just as pleasurable a read) and, by the end, as it so often is, you remember a lot about many of the tales for the human gossip element that prevails throughout.	2004-06-04
US	50323648	R362YG03E9POIM	034082736X	798006987	Parthian Shot (Marcus Corvinus Mysteries)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Buy it	I confess that when I saw the latest Marcus Valerius Messalla Corvinus mystery from David Wishart I didn't bother reading the jacket. Just picked it up, paid for it and located the nearest bench.<BR>Never a mistake with a Corvinus mystery and so this one proved.<BR>Marcus' twelfth adventure finds us in 35A.D in his house struggling with his accounts. The arrival of the consular Lucius Vitellius, described as a `homing hippo' and a subsequent trip to the Palatine to meet one Isidorus means that our wise-cracking sleuth finds himself on the receiving end of an assignment from no less than the Wart himself. The brief? To discover who has attempted to murder the sixty year old Roman backed heir to Great King of Parthia, Phraates.<BR>After pacifing the lamprey dishing Meton and the ever bookish Perilla, Marcus prompts goes to a diplomatic dinner with Vitellius, hosted by Phraates for the Parthian delegation. There we meet a list of people all of whom have motivation: Osroes, the Magian - an anti-Greek Parthian, Zariades - an unctuous Parthian courtier, Callion - a Seleucid Greek, Peucestas - a military eunuch, Tiridates - Phraates son, and Mithridates - the particularly nasty younger brother of the King of Iberia and future King of Armenia.<BR>Promptly making an enemy of Mithridates and causing a diplomatic incident, just to protect the virtue of a dancer, lands Marcus in immediate hot water ending up with a beating in a Tuscan Way alley. Still, with the reckless abandon and grim determination that marks our sleuthing hero he sets off into the Parthian underworld of Rome. Just as well as Zariades ends up with his throat cut. A body, but not the expected one.<BR>Conversations with Phraates, investigations into The old Batchelors and Mano's, plus an ever growing threat from Mithradates means that Marcus has to put his family on the line again.<BR>The mystery unfolds as Marcus moves from conversation to conversation, uncovering a web of deceit from his `paymasters' that infuriates him but reveals a lot about multiple motives and secret dealings in the Roman/Parthian underworld until he finally realises that the `murder' wasn't a murder at all.<BR>Marcus rapidly escalates his way through Nicanor, pepper merchants, Parthian and Syrian spice trading, Ostian knife gangs, the Three Graces brothel and many more as he threatens, bribes and coaxes information out of everyone to reveal a plot so complex and clever that to guess the culprits and motives from the outset would be blind luck. Oh, and he solves the mystery of the missing lampreys and manages to put one over Meton, who comes across like a Roman Ramsey at times.<BR>David Wishart has settled down with his irreverant Corvinus mysteries and anyone who likes the overly carefree Claudia Seferius of Marilyn Todd will finds an equally affable character in Corvinus whose straight talking, justice loving sleuth cuts through Rome with an alacrity that is hard to put down.<BR>Buy it.	2004-05-24
US	50323648	RCVJF7FJI5O35	0701171308	566250370	BEATRICE'S SPELL: THE ENDURING LEGEND OF BEATRICE CENCI	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Fascinating in parts	Belinda Jack's poignantly erudite discourse on the life and subsequent artistic response to the events surrounding Beatrice Cenci who was executed in 1599 for the murder of her father, Francesco Cenci, a man portrayed by history as sadistically brutal to all he encountered and whose sexual perversions extended to his own family is a work that doesn't quite end up delivering the richness of artistic and literary impact to the discussed artists/writers  that is implied in the introduction.<br />Drawing first, in the introduction, on the similarities to enduring incest myths, then to Corrado Ricci's attempt to truly define the face behind the painting commonly held to be that of Beatrice Jack's states her intention to examine the reality behind the accusations and the subsequent literary impact Beatrice had on personages such as Shelley, Hawthorne and Artaud.<BR>The first two chapters deal with, firstly, the trial and execution of Beatrice, her mother Lucrezia and brother Giacomo, going into particular detail on the nature of the `day' and her younger brother Bernardo's prison sentence. Secondly, with the crime itself, the half-hearted attempts to cover it up and the subsequent trial plus a brief history of the Cenci family, stressing the nature of the personality of Beatrice's father and his repeated jailing over his life for various personal crimes against people.<BR>Come chapter Three, Jack moves to deal with Shelley. Immediately opening with Shelley's own words on seeing the Guido Reni portrait Jack then goes to briefly outline the concept that Shelley was a poet looking for an audience and his fascination with Beatrice can be seen in the posthumously published `Julian and Maddalo'. After a history of Shelley's short life over 27 or so pages, the link to Cenci finally comes with Shelley's only completed play, `The Cenci' and Jack draws the conclusion that \\"his discovery of Francesco Cenci, whose character vindicated Shelley's deep suspicions about the motivation offathers in relation to their daughters.\\"<BR>Chapter Four moves to Herman Melville. Jack again just gives us an account of his life and personality, draws attention to `Pierre', his last novel and its reference to the Cenci portrait and concludes by moving to Nathaniel Hawthorne. Again, we are subjected to a biography of a man who was affected by firstly the antinomist, Ann Hutchinson and later the events surrounding Salem before he eventually came across Beatrice. He produced his final novel directly about the Cenci portrait and two differing reactions to it in the novel `The Marble Faun'. The chapter on Hosmer gives us a markedly different character to the previous writers. Harriet was a woman fighting against the artistic male prejudice of the Victorian world yet retained her sense of liveliness, sculpting her Beatrice Cenci out of pure interest. The following chapter on the Voyeurs best explains the concentrated artistic interest in Cenci with Jack's opening: \\"The Cenci fever that took hold of the Florence set affected Robert Browning too, but somewhat indirectly\\". This is probably the best chapter of the novel as it dispenses with the somewhat over lengthy biographies that dominate the chapters about individuals and concentrates solely on Cenci impact on Browning, Dickens,  Stendahl, Dumas, and Cameron. Finally we come to Antonin Artaud, a somewhat Shelley-esque character whose personal torments mixed with theatrical genius led to a play called Cenci.<BR>This is a slender text and I came away feeling that Jack's exploration of her opening gambit is quickly exhausted and there is a good deal of biographical information against the five main artists/writers she has explored, which, though interesting seems more to be `fill'. Jack's opening sentence is: <BR>\\"I am setting out to explore a disturbing subject: the response of writers and artists over the centuries to a young woman's life of extraordinary suffering, and the revenge which led to her own violent death\\".<BR>Whilst Jack has identified those writers and artists, all we really have is a mini-biography and -psychoanalysis of them. The analysis of artistic response tends to give way to biography for each and I would have preferred to see more detail on the natures of the responses to Cenci's tragedy rather than their lives before encountering her. The saving grace is that we do get this in Chapter Seven and, for this reader, it saved the book as I confess I found myself skipping large tracts of the biographical sections to find where Jack has dealt with the \\"the response of writers and artists over the centuries to a young woman's life of extraordinary suffering, and the revenge which led to her own violent death\\".<BR>As a result I came impressed with the discussion on the collection of personalities for whom the story of Cenci had interested their artistic personalities but feeling that I had to search amongst a lot of `fill' for those erudite analyses. Jack's book has also stirred (for this reader, at least) interest in the historical story behind Beatrice Cenci and it is to that that I will turn for more information rather than the artists/writers that Jack has detailed.	2004-05-11
US	50323648	RIGQT7FRHKPA4	0192836684	223272136	Cousin Bette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Balzac's most complete novel	Balzac's brilliant commentary on the newly born French republic and the struggle for power underneath Napoleon as the old order was guillotined and enterprise had free reign is a marvellous expose of a society in flux. Opening with subtle alacrity the novo homo Monsieur Crevel pays a visit to his son-in-law's mother, the aristocratic Baroness Hulot d'Ervy to explain that his reason (as a tied member of their family now through her son) behind his hindrance of supplying the Baroness' daughter, Hortense, with financial surety is due to two reasons: The first due to the vast debts his son-in-law has run up which he must cover, the second, in an delightfully narrated scene of wickedly humorous selfishness, because the Baroness' husband (his libertine comrade-in-arms) has `stolen' away Monsieur Crevel's mistress, the now infamous singer, Josepha.<br />Monsieur Crevel insists that he must have the Baroness himself to avenge himself on her husband and, if she agrees, he will act as financial surety for her daughter Hortense. So, in true Balzac style, in the space of a few pages, we have a marvellously huge dilemma for the cuckolded Baroness for whom, within this society, social standing is everything. It is this sense of stolen love, echoing Moliere whom Balzac constantly refers to, that permeates the novel of revenge that is Cousin Bette.<br />What unfolds is a perfidy to subtle and over such a long period of time that its eventual terrible denouement is a tragic tale of requited love, treacherous money motivated mistresses and selflessly loving wives.<br />Cousin Bette has saved from suicide one Wencelas Steinbock, a Polish refugee, and has secreted him away in her tiny home for a few months financially caring for him whilst he begins to exercise his professed enormous artistic talent. Eventually she leaks her secret to her niece, Hortense who promptly falls in love with Wencelas and steals him away to marry her. In the interim, Josepha spurns Baron Hulot, who promptly turns his attentions to Madame Marneffe who lives next door to Cousin Bette. It is with Madame Marneffe that Cousin Bette finds the terrible instrument of he revenge as she inserts her into the Hulot social circle, Baron Hulot taking up with her and his lavish spending on his innocent mistress driving then entire family to penury. Madame Marneffe then comes to an agreement with Crevel to become his mistress thus stealing her from Baron Hulot and gaining his revenge on Hulot's stealing of Josepha. In the meantime the bewitching Marneffe secures herself more and more money from the slavering old men whilst carrying on with her returned Brazilian lover. Cousin Bette then gets Wencelas to obtain a loan from Madame Marneffe, knowing full well that he would fall in love with her causing Hortense's misery (and her mother's) to be absolute. By midpoint of the novel the plot is well in motion, the Hulot family is torn apart through husbands betrayals, their money is gone, wasted on a treacherous mistress who holds them all her thrall. A better siren there could not be all the time controlled by the wicked Cousin Bette.<br />Having reached the pinnacle of her revenge the tables begin to turn with further disgrace on Baron Hulot's part as he is founding guilty of defrauding the government in Algiers of two hundred thousand francs. His uncle and brother commit suicide and he is forced to hide in Paris (with Josepha's help). His brother's death, the Marshal, to whom Cousin Bette has secured a marriage - and hence an income - to means she begins to be revealed as a `sword of Damocles' over the Hulot family. Victorin Hulot, the son, commences to rebuild the family fortunes. Determined to restore the family fortune, Victorin sanctions the downfall of Madame Marneffe and her new husband, Crevel, through the enigmatic Madame Nourrison firstly through revealing her relationship with Crevel to Baron Montes whose rage knows no bounds, then lastly through a debilitating disease that claims the life of the Mayor and his lover. As Cousin Bette watches her evil mechinations fall apart with the death of her instrument of despair and then with Victorin restoring the family fortunes and the prodigal father's return she eventually dies, though not without some minor satisfaction at their mourning of her passing.<br />This is probably Balzac's most accomplished novel, a story of jealousy and envy spiralling into bitterness and a perfidious desire. Cousin Bette invents multiple reasons to hate her Hulot family and unerring hits the week points of their personalities in an attempt to ruin them and thence be seen as their saviour. The insatiably wandering eye of Baron Hulot, the vainglorious ineptitude of Wencelas, coupled with their wives who seek to retain the family dignity bring this once proud family to their knees until the son realises that by simply revealing the truths behind the lies will break apart Cousin Bette's tenuous web of despair and set them on the road to happiness again. Halfway through there is a pointed aside as Balzac gives his definition of what creates a great artist - namely hard work and fires a single shot across this reviewer by aptly pointing out that those who cannot themselves achieve greatness in their art end up being a critic of those who can. Still...this is one Balzac novel that is well worth the time.fe of the Mayor and his lover. As Cousin Bette watches her evil mechinations fall apart with the death of her instrument of despair and then with Victorin restoring the family fortunes and the prodigal father's return she eventually dies, though not without some minor satisfaction at their mourning of her passing.<BR>This is probably Balzac's most accomplished novel, a story of jealousy and envy spiralling into bitterness and a perfidious desire. Cousin Bette invents multiple reasons to hate her Hulot family and unerring hits the week points of their personalities in an attempt to ruin them and thence be seen as their saviour. The insatiably wandering eye of Baron Hulot, the vainglorious ineptitude of Wencelas, coupled with their wives who seek to retain the family dignity bring this once proud family to their knees until the son realises that by simply revealing the truths behind the lies will break apart Cousin Bette's tenuous web of despair and set them on the road to happiness again. Halfway through there is a pointed aside as Balzac gives his definition of what creates a great artist - namely hard work and fires a single shot across this reviewer by aptly pointing out that those who cannot themselves achieve greatness in their art end up being a critic of those who can. Still...this is one Balzac novel that is well worth the time.	2004-05-04
US	50323648	R70JXOMKVKU63	0385336713	256227839	Dreaming the Bull (Boudica Trilogy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Much better....	The second of Manda Scott's Boudica trilogy opens with the somewhat older Breaca (known as `The Boudica', Bringer of Victory) ambushing Romans in modern Wales. Removed from the Eceni, now of Mona, she has a son and a husband, Caradoc whilst on the other side of Britain, Ban, now firmly known as Julius Valerius, a duplicarius, is aiding Corvus in planning how they will defeat the Britons. Valerius has lost his powers as an Eceni and now is subservient to Mithras Sol.<BR>Over the first hundred pages we follow Julius as he sweeps into the Silures territory in Rome's bid to disarm the tribes. One by one they find the blades of the Britons and destroy them, best epitomised when he locates Casselliovanus' sword and gives it to his new friend, the Thracian master of the Horse, Longinus Szvede. Together, under the guide of the Prefect Regulus they become the scourge of the Britons and the focus of the hatred of Breaca, Caradoc, Durogenes at al. After breaking out of one `salmon trap' laid by the Eceni, after Corvus nearly died and after Longinus and Julius also suffer injuries it culminates in Cunomar, Caradoc, Cygfa and Durogenes capture by Julius and removal to Rome for the Britannia Triumph. <BR>Whilst there Caradoc manages to delay their executions by offering to prevent the Dreamers from killing the superstitious Claudius from afar in return for their lives and earns a temporary respite. This denied it is only during the Triumph itself where he challenges the emperor that he manages to secure all their lives in return for Claudius' own safety. During this period what is of more import is Caradoc's realisation that Julius is in fact the not-dead Ban and all the enormity that comes with that. Julius states his belief in Aminios' lies to Caradoc's frustrations though his own struggle with the inner voices of the Dreamers  shows that he must eventually weaken to the truth.<BR>On Claudius' death, they are freed and taken by Julius to freedom, though hotly pursued by the representatives of the newly elected Nero. After Caradoc is left alive but on the Italian shore the remainder return to Breaca and the inevitable hostile reunion as Ban and his sister meet again and she realises who he is. It ends with her sending him to Hibernia.<BR>This second effort by Scott is much...much better than the first. Gone is the heavy insinuation that Celtic Britain was dominated by totem spirituality and more focus is on providing a tautly narrated story at the end of the invading Romans and the struggle to stop them by the British. The characters are more rooted in reality and likeable, their actions more in tune with their ages. Rome factors far more heavily in this and whilst there is a lack of actual scenery in Rome, the narration of the relationships during this time means it is not overly missed. Ban/Julius' inner struggle is more plausible and whilst you want him to return to his heritage, you suspect that complete acceptance of what he has done and how much he has betrayed his own people would cause an immediate breakdown. It'll be interesting to see how Scott resolves that dilemma in the next installments. One minor annoyance is the continued insistence by Scott on calling the Druids, `Dreamers', but it is not overly important.<BR>I stated that first installment from Scott was easily put down, that it lacks any sort of gripping edge. Not so this one. It's not quite a one sitting read but it's close and certainly ensures I will look for eagerly for the third installment.<BR>A major improvement.	2004-04-27
US	50323648	R2SSWZ61QF4ZOE	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	New hope for WOT future...	Jordan's first prequel, New Spring, drifts eloquently back to the style and verve generated in his opening three novels of the Wheel of Time series (which I understand only has two more volumes to come). Recent installations have suffered from being high on fill and low on action but with this (for Jordan) considerably shrunk single tome, a lot of fill vanishes along with a distinct lack of braid tugging. It comes as minor relief to realise that Jordan hasn't lost any of his ability for providing a story that pulls no punches in its raw talent.<BR>New Spring takes us back to the time of Rand al'Thor's birth when both Moraine Demandred and Siuan Sanche are young Accepted at Tar Valon, days before their calling to take their tests for elevation to Aes Sedai. Whilst the story threads its neat way through the politics that surrounds their elevation and the foretold birth by Gitara Sedai, we get occasional snippets from Al'Lan Mandragoran who is attempting to force a thousand Aiel from the Waste to battle.<BR>The first half of the story focuses on the pair becoming Aes Sedai, verbal scuffles with seamstresses, carrying out a census of all newborn children in an attempt to locate the genuine Dragon Reborn, the odd enforced penance and the deaths of the current Amyrlin Seat and Keeper of the Stole. All the time, Moiraine is planning to leave Tar Valon which she does by the novella's midpoint, arriving at the town of Canluum at the same time Lan arrives with Bukama.<BR>After a run-in with the ever icy Cadsuane and Siuan's turning up speaking of multiple Aes Sedai deaths, Moraine leaves Canluum and promptly comes across Lan, Bukama and Ryne. A childish episode involving a lot of water and some flopping fish means that the `Lady Alys' takes their protection to the town of Chachin. It is here that the climax builds as Siuan and Moiraine end up discovering Lan's claim to the throne of Malkier, discovering Merean Sedai is black Ajah and both Lan and Moiraine end up in personal duels on a parapet. It concludes with the two joining, Lan as Moiraine's Warder.<BR>The story of Moraine was an obvious choice for Jordan to commence his prequels and provides a necessary expansion on the lady who had some much impact in the opening books of The Wheel of Time and on the ta'varen, Rand, Mat and Perrin. I confess I was not aware this was a substantially rewritten expansion on a previous short story but having not read that made absolutely no difference to my enjoyment of this latest effort. If indeed, there are only two more Wheel of Time books to come, then my enthusiasm to get them has been reestablished.	2004-04-16
US	50323648	R2MEI1STM55R0	0743230825	162539242	The War of the Crowns	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The fight continues....	Jacq's second in the Queen of Freedom trilogy has the oppressed Eygyptians continuing their freedom fight from their base at Thebes. Pharoah Seqen, Ahhtoep's husband, is dead, but he is succeeded by his extremely capable first son, Ahmes, a young man in his twenties who leads the resurgent Thebans with alacrity.<BR>In this volume they take Elephantine, Buhen and stream south into Nubia to defeat Prince Nedjeh, felling Per-Hathor,  Khmun and Nefrusy along the way. During the proceedings Pharaoh Kamose falls in love with Anat, the widow of Tita and marries her, Moustache falls in love with the Nubian, She-Cat (who eventually comes to head the medical corps).<BR>Meanwhile, under the command of the evil Apophis, emperor of the occupying Hyksos, Jannas crushes both the Anatolian rebellion and the Minoan-supplied pirates, then presides over great atrocities at at Sakoa nd Per-Shaq whilst Khamudi takes up a sideline in opium dealing to further his position and wealth. The indescribably evil Aberia continues to strangle her way through hundreds, opening a prison camp at Sharuhen, condemning thousands to death. Amongst all the barbarity and genocide Windswept, Apophis' sister, falls in love with Minos, the finest Minoan painter of his generation, given as a tribute gift to Apophis to decorate his palaces. It is this act of love that forces a chink in the Hyksos armour, sowing the seeds that must eventually bloom into Apophis' downfall.<BR>The second volume ends with the Thebans regaining all of Lower Egypt and Kamose taking the port of Avaris until finally murdered by the ever-present Hyskos spy whose identity remains a mystery thus paving the  way for the final volume and the rise of Pharoah Ahmose, younger brother of Kamose.<BR>Jacq's trilogy is proving an entertaining read and is building up a major sense of injustice at the enormous atrocities carried out by the Hyksos. The body count is so high through the novel that it suffers from a lack of emotiveness at times but itensures the reader remains fimly on the  Eygptian side during this turbulent period of history as they seek, against all the odds, to reclaim their homeland.	2004-04-13
US	50323648	R2VAWL5G0ZXVJZ	0743239431	525604466	The Flaming Sword (The Queen of Freedom Trilogy)	Books	2	14	16	N	N	Utterly anti-climatic	Jacq's final volume in the Queen of Freedom trilogy creates a sense of injustice through its sheer anticlimax to so many plot lines. By the end of the final page, I put this down feeling somewhat cheated, having followed the lives of so many Egyptians who had fought to regain the Two Lands and suffered enormously for it. The reason is simply because of Jacq's dealing with the major characters who have brought so much death and destruction. Following on from the theme of the previous two we find the utterly depraved Khamudi and the unequivocally evil Apophis continuing to murder and torture their way through thousands of people. In fact Jacq spends a lot of time describing these acts of cruelty and  a general disregard for human life on a scale that is pure genocide. All of which serves to ensure the reader wants a fitting end to these people who have committed such atrocity.<BR>And it doesn't happen.<BR>Their deaths are almost footnote in nature and whilst it is not necessary for them to die in a manner similar to the deaths they have caused, there is no sense of justice whatsoever. Take the emperor Apophis for example, as the ultimate cause of all the suffering. Jacq has him get up one day, get into a litter and casually gets stabbed by Khamudi and his corpse burnt. In the space of ten or so lines. An utter anti-climax. You'd expect a climatic scene of some kind where he meets the Egyptians or somesuch, but nothing. The same for Khamudi. In a scene reminiscent of the death of Pompey the Great, Ahhotep turns up to find the final Hyskos emperor was been killed in a village for being rude to someone! Again, utterly anti-climatic. In fact the only death that has a sense of justice about it is Aberia's death by Big Feet in the prison camp at Sharuhen.<BR>In the final volume, Pharaoh Ahmose finally liberates Memphis and then Avaris (though the latter is done with the aid of a major earthquake). Jannas is murdered, Windswept flees to Minos, thus ensuring the Minoans and Egyptians join forces against the Hyskos. The Hittite Empire arrives in time to destroy the Hyskos reinforcements and we eventually uncover the spy (who's fairly obvious as it can only be one of two people given the lack of suspects throughout the trilogy) which means the Ahhotep can retire to the temple for the rest of her natural life as promised in the opener and Ahmose can now rule the Two Lands peacefully again with his wife Nefertari.<BR>So, as a trilogy, not as good at Ramses. Jacq's style (or perhaps the translator's) is overly punchy, moving from scene to scene almost paragraph by paragraph. The body count continues to be high, too much time given over to the murdering and torturing but it does build the sense of expectancy of a fitting climax - which is never delivered, disappointingly so. The entire trilogy is an easy read on a long train or plane journey but there needs to be improvement to reach the heights of Ramses again.	2004-04-13
US	50323648	RRD6WSEWKTJGE	0743476875	909275753	The Empire of Darkness: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Queen of Freedom)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	It's no Ramses...	Christian Jacq's trilogy opener, `The Empire of Darkness' is set in 1690B.C, covering a decade during the time known as the Second intermediate period. It is, as the title suggests, a period of darkness in Pharaonic Egypt, with the Two Lands beset by the Hyksos invaders who have achieved their conquest with the introduction of the horse and chariot to the military technology.<BR>As a result the only nominally free city is that of Thebes were the aging Queen Teti rules without her Pharoah, but her headstrong daughter, Ahhotep seeks to raise the resistance and vanquish the invaders. At her side, comes the common-born Seqen and her guard dog, Laughter. The former quickly declares his love as they seek to garner some support for their rebellion and becomes her husband and Pharoah. Ahhotep dedicates her cause to Mut and is blessed by the Eygyptian Gods.<BR>The Hyksos are represented by the evil Apophis, his henchman Khamudi and their wives, who enjoy torturing, murdering and suppressing  the Eygptians, the resistance grassroots by the wily Afghan and his growing band of rebels. However, a sympathetic Hyksos appointed overlord, Emheb, ensures that Ahhotep and Seqen are able to maintain the facade of Thebes' subservience throughout the years whilst secretly removing all the Hyksos sympathizers and creating a small army with which to strike back. By the end of the first novel, they have two strong children and eventually cast off their cloak of meekness to attack and defeat the Hyksos in two river and then one land battle, the last ultimately costing the Pharaoh his life. Nevertheless we are set up the for the next two novels for Ahhotep to continue her liberation of Egypt.<BR>As ever Jacq's style is very limited and punchy and his novels would benefit from more `fill'. It is as though he wants to move from key scene to key scene as quickly as possible and, as such, there is little character empathy or even understandable reason for their actions most of the time. Indeed the entire novel is screenplay in its effort. Nevertheless, this has been Jacq's style (or the style of Dyson, the translator) for most of  his novels now, so it is to be expected. For now, novelisation of historical Egypt is dominated by Jacq's prolific pen, but there is room for substantial improvement.	2004-04-05
US	50323648	RSZN8KO5UZ20V	0349113165	321957541	Olympiad: An Historical Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An olympic effort	Tom Holt's `Olympiad' is a fascinating satire that jabs its humorous finger into the ribs of ancient Greece and gives legendary occurrences a sense of wry life that makes it all the more readable. Sharp and witty, Holt's foray into the world of the historical novel leaves the reader wanting more. His prose style and grasp of his subject matter is fused into a perfect mix of historical fact and literary fiction to create a novel that is truly impressive.<BR>Olympiad, in true Platonic style, takes the form of a conversation between a visiting Phoenician trader and a group of old men in the Greek town of Elis. The story is primarily narrated between blind Cleander and digitless Cratus, two brothers who know the true story behind the founding of the ancient Olympic Games (or Elean Games as they were auspiciously known on their inauguration) and in a length narration give both the versions of events.<BR>The story commences with an ill-fated war against the Triphylians which turns out badly for the perfect King Leon and the brothers' family. As a result of the funeral Games, Cleander suggests to the King that he hold a Games to celebrate no deaths and call the greatest Games players in all Greece to attend. Leon agrees to this splendid idea and promptly packs Cleander, Cratus and three others - their uncle Sarpedon, who has a penchant for violence, Dusa, their overly confident sixteen year old sister, and Tachys, the only man who'll agree to the insanity - off as heralds to announce the Games. What doesn't help is that King Leon's other son, Prince Oeleus, in an attempt to prevent the Games being held and his older brother benefiting from them, is desperate to prevent the games so he sends Alastor to go to all the towns ahead of the fellowship and prevent them from being welcomed.<BR>The first part of the journey has mixed results: our group get in a fight, discover Tegea has become prosperous, discover Pylos has been razed, have a pointless but nice time with the Spartans etc. Eventually, they rescue Pentheus of Aegina, who just happens to come from a family of Gamesplayers who excel (Dusa also manages to fall in love) who narrates his own story of the funeral games held for Phorbus and their family's Games contest against the visiting Corinthian Laops family. During the chariot race a crash killed both their sister Actis and one of the Corinthians and led to a fight and subsequent blood feud.<BR>After taking Pentheus along with them they wind up in Argos where the Argives have actually commenced their own Games. After watching the displays and determining to ask them back to Elis, they're promptly forced to run for it after Alastor and Tachys (who has now joined him) falsely accuse Pentheus of sacrilege.<BR>After sailing the wrong way and ending up in Megara, a dosage of flour secures Pentheus a chariot army with which to regain his Aegina island kingdom. Pure chance ends up with one dead Pentheus and one Sarpedon taking over a King of Aegina. This provides the perfect excuse to hold some funeral Games and lure the best from Athens, to then ostensibly recruit for the Elean Games - though in a moment of pure hilarious farce they have a massive pyre but forget the body.<BR>After managing to make it back to Elis (Cleander being cuckolded in the meantime) they finally create their Games stadium and no one arrives until they conscript a pirate ship for a great footrace that, ultimately, achieves its objective.<BR>Holt's characters play off each other perfectly, bickering just like any family, but also showing great flashes of intuition and always able to help each other out. The philosophical debates on how one can truly record history and how people achieve greatness that regularly appear as the aging Cleander and Cratus pause in their story to the Phoenician drive home a valuable exercise in logical thinking and perception. For this reader, I cannot praise Holt's novels highly enough and I only wish I had discovered this marvellous author a lot sooner.<BR>A must read.	2004-03-31
US	50323648	RELVNZ6UMGWWX	1844130274	998568251	Mosaic of Shadows	Books	3	16	20	N	N	Needs improvement but promising...	Harper's first novel concerns the activities of one Demetrios Askiades, Constantinople's Didius Falco, to whom we receive no background introduction (until his conversation with Dr Anna a quarter way into the book) but are immediately plunged into his commission to locate a date-loving foreign mercenary who fired an arrow from an Genoese tzangra in an attempt to assassinate the Emperor Alexius.<BR>After being commissioned by the imperial representative, Krysaphios, at a rate of three gold pieces per diem, he swiftly locates the method then the identity of the would be assassin. At his side is the zealously-loyal Vangrian captain, Sigurd, for whom tact and diplomacy are an alien concept, preferring the fist and the sword to obtain his information. At times it is remarkably effective. Skipping at some speed from scene to scene we first trace the details behind the attempt, meet Dr Anna at the monastery of Saint Andrew (with whom our sleuth immediately feels stirrings for and a jealousy of) and then unmask the youthful would-be killer.<BR>Money earned, Askiades is promptly goaded into unveiling the greater mystery and finds himself in front of the emperor's odd colour boot wearing brother. The mysteries continue to deepen as Askiades relationship with the young Thomas and Dr Anna develops. In the meantime the ever-growing rumoured threat of an attacking Frankish army means that Constantinople must prepare itself for a siege. At this point the entire novel lifts as we deal the arrival of the Frankish army on the First Crusade, headed by Godwin and Baldwin. Askiades is instructed to focus his efforts there after a near miss in the sewers with the mysterious monk who is behind the assassination attempts. After getting trapped in the ever belligerent Frankish camp in Galata, Sigurd and Askiades learn of impending treachery to allow the crusaders into Constantinople and of the undoubted link between the assassin monk and Baldwin.<BR>After they both escape the Frankish armyattacks Constantinople and the denouement races towards its climax as Alexius is nearly assassinated for good and the true conspirator is unmasked by Askiades who saves not only his emperor but his city before retiring to a well earned evening with the ever present Anna.<BR>Unfortunately, Tom Harper's opening novel reads like a first attempt. It does, at times, show immense promise, but, at others, shows technical weakness in characterisation. This is particularly evident in Askiates relationships with all personages imperial in Constantinople. From the outset his attitude is aggressive, inexplicably so, and he goes from informative to angry in the blink of an eye to such an extent that the prose does not flow during these scenes. In fact, most of the characters are two dimensional in their personalities, capable of only two emotions of which the second is always that of anger. It is as though the author has decided that we need one fierce character, one beset-upon character, one sarcastic character, one gentle character, one empathic character, one sympathetic character and so on.  It's almost programmatic: if the single personality trait doesn't fit the scene then aggression is the only other emotional response - bizarrely so in some scenes. Another flaw is the sense of haste throughout the novel is as though Harper is keen to get to the next key scene, whereas more `fill' would actually serve to produce a better novel. <BR>Nevertheless, whereas the characterisation needs considerable improvement, the plot does not and offers exciting sleuthing in late eleventh century Constantinople where the twists and turns as our hero unravels the intricacies of imperial politics are well executed. The action accelerates throughout out the novel and the complexities of plot are unraveled with effortless ease causing a roaring end to the first novel.<BR>So, for a first effort from this oxford medieval scholar, it does show sufficient promise to mean the second Askiates mysterywill be looked for by this reader and I have no doubt Harper will improve with each new offering.	2004-03-19
US	50323648	R1QB8R7VHGPDN7	0802117708	364927106	The Rose of Martinique: A Life of Napoleon's Josephine	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A stunning life	Andrea Stuart's new biography on the life of Napoleon's most famous mistress, Josephine, is a complete and captivating story of one of France most powerful women at a time of social and political upheaval as France sought to reestablish its identity at the heart of Europe and the New World. It is a rich biography, expanding to discuss in depth the political and social reality of the time and the nature and actions of those personages that influenced Josephine the greatest.<BR>The story commences with the birth of Marie-Josephe-Rose de Tascher de La Pagerie on the island of Martinque, After delving into her childhood, Rose's life truly commenced with her enagagement and subsequent marriage to Alexandre de Beauharnais - often pointed to as the galant, de Valmont, of Laclos' Les Liaisons Dangereuses. After a rocky marriage as her overly florid and highly unsuited to marriage husband took a multitude of lovers, charmed his way through Parisien society and ended up accusing the innocent Rose of adultery whilst he on  a trip back to Martinque and she in Paris, Rose found herself with two children, separated and in a the convent of Panthemont. It was to prove a turning point as, just before the French Revolution ignited she returned from new new home at Fontainbleu to Martinque. Whilst there she did not escape the violence of it as Martinque was one of the first colonies to follow the mainland and she was forced to flee the island of her birth forever.<BR>She returned to a Paris where republicanism was the new `word' . In the meantime her husband, Alexandre, had risen to prominence amongst the new wave of political power and was actually President of the National Assembly the month Rose returned. As a result of her husband's fame, so Rose grew in recognition by association. As Alexandre presided over the capture of the fleeing King the event polarized the camps into the Feuillant party against the Girondists and Jacobins and Alexandre, for a time became the de facto rulerof France.<BR>It was a fortunate time for Rose as her husband's position enabled her to make friendships with France's new elite and to find time for amorous pursuits. However, come Louis XVI's execution and England's declaration of war, Alexandre's ineptitude in his new position as commander of the Rhine armies and his libertine nature led to his downfall under the Law of Suspects and Rose's subsequent arrest. After several months of imprisonment at Les Carmes Alexandre died at the guillotine days before Robespierre and days after Rose was released.<BR>By 1795 she had come to meet the man who would eclipse her - Napoleon.<BR>At his point Stuart digresses onto a quick recount of Napoleon's life and career before Rose engaged on her relationship. Napoleon was smitted and proposed, Rose only accepting after realising Hoche was no longer available to her. It was at this point Napoleon renamed her Josephine. What follows is a period as Napoleon swept all before him in Italy whilst all the time writing letter upon letter to her in fits of passion alternating between over-eloquent expressions of love and frustration at her seeming coldness. It was a reversal of roles from Josephine's first marriage, but as Napoleon's fame and power grew, so did hers. Stuart does well here to interpose love letter text with historical action and emotional frenzy, sweeping the reader along on the tides created by the future emperor.<BR>As Napoleon aged and his power increased there came the inevitable shift in power each held in their personal relationship forced along by Josephine's relationship with Hippolyte Charles eventually culminating in the very public knowledge of the problematic state of their marriage while Napoleon was in Eygpt and the now somewhat embellished episode at the house at rue de la Victoire.<BR>What follows is a recount of Napoleon's rise to fame, Josephine's active participation in the conspiracy that secured his position within the Consulate and her transformationfrom `decadent Directoire godess into virtuous, restrained statesman's wife\\" (p270). Josephine's social skills soon translated into the highest political weapon as she presided from her Yellow Salon providing support for the emigres but not yet extending to the exiled Louis XVIII. However, she retained a loving family atmosphere with her two children and Napoleon despite their lack of children together.<BR>Eventually, Napoleon acclaimed himself Emperor of France in 1894 and Stuart treats us to a lengthy discourse on Josephine's battle with Napoleon's family, her final spiritual marriage to him and their coronation.<BR>As Empress of the French the rest of her life was played against the tumult of several legendary European battles with conquests of great nations, yet done in a manner that meant she retained her regality. As Empress her life was rigorously dictated, protocol dominating her every move, her life peripatetic. Stuart illustrates this with a detailed look at a typical day following with how she influenced French society, patronaging the arts and acting as the gentle foil to Napoloeon's rudeness.<BR>However, it all fell apart when Napoleon divorced her on Dec 15, 1809 and she spent the rest of her life either touring France or at Malmaison. Acclaimed as a generous host she spent four years playing this part as Napoleon's Grnad Empire began to fall apart and it all ended suddenly in  1813 with Napoleon's exile on Elba and Josephine succumbing, aged 51, to her final moments.<BR>Andrea Stuart's biography of France's most celebrated Empress is effortlessly written, evoking an emotional reponse full of admiration for this woman who transformed from the rose of Martinque to one of the most powerful and loved women of the time. Whilst popular history may relegate her to the boudoir with the infamous phrase of `Not tonight, Josephine' from Napoleon, what this effort has done is draw attention to a woman who place in history is very much assured.<br />Highly recommended.	2004-03-15
US	50323648	R3DBDOMV6A2QAG	0349116148	609924774	A Song for Nero: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A must read....	Holt's `A Song for Nero' commences with our two anti-heroes, Lucius Domitius Nero and Galen in jail, the latter reminiscing about the events that have got them from their first meeting at Galen's and his brother, Callistus', imminent crucifixion for impersonating the imperial Nero to their present incarceration. Opening with a question that all Imperial Roman scholars would love to know the answer to (Did Nero kill his mother and wife?) and not believing the answer, Galen banters with the tired ex-emperor detailing his life as a fourth-rate thief with his brother.<BR>After using a conversation with Seneca to establish the differences between epicureanism and stoicism, we move back to the present with Nero's and Galen's conviction and sentence for fifteen years hard labour only to escape by a quirk of fate when their precariously balanced slave wagon is rescued by the same Greek merchant that got them captured in the first place.<BR>There is an account of Nero's, Galen's and Callistus' flight from the Imperial palace and Callistus' subsequent assisted suicide, thus paving the way for Lucius Domitius and Galen to spend the next decade on the run from various officials during an inept crime spree. After managing to denude the son of the senator that Nero sent to the quarries for disliking his songs, the two wind up back in Italy by way of a grain freight ship and an argument working as farmhands on one of the latifundia. Subsequent realisation that their Sicilian benefactor is now hunting them down drives them to Rome where they meet, are forced to befriend and subsequently get killed, two of Nero's gladiatorial heroes, Alexander and who are working alternatively for Pollio and Blandinia, the former who loved Nero's music, the latter who, like the ganglords, Scythax and are actually tracking the pair down in the mistaken belief that Nero is actually Callistus. They all believe they know the whereabouts of the legendary treasure of Queen Dido of Carthage.<BR>Our erstwhile pair skip town and with the usual lack of foresight that they've shown throughout proceed to get Nero to play the harp at the nearest tavern owned by Amyntas, who promptly shows up with his brother and Myhrrine, trusses them up and takes them towards Utica to recover the lost treasure. This they do, dispose of the trio and in true Monte Cristo fashion manage to secrete it in a cave and promptly suffer a shipwreck, Galen managing to escape in a coffin. After selling his rights to the treasure to the pirates that rescue him he finds himself back in Phyle, Greece with a golden belt and enough money to set himself up as a landowner with his mother, two Syrian slaves and, in an abrupt twist, the alive Blandinia whom he purchases as a maid for his mother. His attempt at bucolic idealism proves too much for him and in another twist of fate, lending to the stoical philospohy that runs throughout the novel, he finds Nero who's now a flute player's assistant in Athen's and ends up with a fiery conclusion at his farm with the final players in this alternative act. There is a brilliant genealogical twist at the end and a satisfactory conclusion to this story in his life.<BR>This now the second of Holt's historic fiction I have read and Holt's text is littered throughout with historic nuance and subtlelty. Much of his humour and satire requires knowledge of the time in order to fully appreciate the skill that has gone into this latest effort and I would not hesitate to read any more. For sheer writing ability he is as good as McCullough and Saylor, and his ability to weave both plot and philosophy second to none.<BR>Highly recommended.	2004-03-10
US	50323648	R23THNVG3TDPTF	0807615145	951793523	Farewell, My Queen: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An ephemeral three days	Chantal Thomas' 'Farewell my Queen' takes the form of a confessional memoir, spoken by an old lady in self-imposed exile in Vienna, recounting the change in French monarchy to republic. The pivotal story takes place over the course of three days, giving us a by the hour breakdown of the confusion that surrounding the tumultuous events of July 14 - 16, 1789 as the Bastille fell and Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette were forced to attempt to flee Versailles. It is an eloquently written novel that seeks to demonstrate the artificial utopia of a late eighteenth century French court life which floated along in a structured yet almost dreamy manner and was rudely intruded upon by the realities of life over a fateful three days. Whilst it is hard to find sympathy for any of the protagonists, so ably represented by the doeful Madame Laborde, second reader to the Queen, it does show an embellished view of the shocking awakening of those courtiers that drifted through court life in a naive manner where responsibility for actions and their consequences has been entirely removed.<BR>We follow the inexorably obsequious Laborde as she scuttles from room to room not understanding what is happening to shake her gentle world, responding in a child-like fear to the anxious adults. The scene where Madame Laborde is summoned to the Queen's Gilt Chamber to assist in her packing for trip to Metz best epitomises the rapid descent into chaos as the Queen's ladies desperately seek to retain some normality in the absence of hard facts and the maelstrom that is rife rumour.<BR>Eventually, Madame Laborde returns to the darkness of Versailles (an image frequently used to good effect by the author, especially as the Court is dressed in black to mourn the death of the Dauphin) and overhears two soldiers discussing events and beliefs, pandering to the inevitable malicious lies and slander that was felt throughout Paris about their royalty. Yet even though she is appalled by it, there is the tiniest glimmer that change, in all its brutal glory, is also somehow exciting.<BR>The inevitable happens as the court realises that there is fundamental political change and panic sets in. Thomas chooses to personify Panic, dealing with the results of her passing as courtiers flee abandoning children, pets, and servants (Laborde overhears one particular diatribe from a chained up servant who appears to have been the reality behind the poetical pen of Rondon de la Tour). There is poignancy as Princess Gabrielle de Lamboulle ends up leaving her great friend the Queen (there is a departure from historical fact here) on her instructions and we eventually culminate in Laborde's underground departure masquerading as the formidable Diane de Polignac and arrival in Vienna where she has spent the remainder of her life in Prince de Ligne's recreation of the Versailles rituals.<BR>Thomas has written an erudite novel, where the King is portrayed as completely out of touch with his subjects, Marie Antoinette as resolute; both of them as undesirous of their position and shocked as to their sudden fall. In some respects they come across as the King and Queen of Hearts as the more timid Alice realises her Wonderland is breaking apart. The masque fails, the quirky insanity (best portrayed by the star struck Monsieur de Castelneux) crumbles as Versailles awakes from dream to the terrible stench of its reality. You come away from this novel with the strong sense that Chantal Thomas is probably not far off the mark with regard to the humanly emotive response to those three days by the Versailles courtiers and she softly portrays the shattering of an illusion, a utopia that has decay at its very core. This novel is dreamy in its structure, flowing in its prosaic technicality, portraying an endearing fallible heroine and, whilst I confess I very nearly put it down within the first few chapters, it suddenly intruded on the senses in a manner that made it extremely gripping. Worth reading.	2004-03-05
US	50323648	R12A5JJTML25NA	0385336624	384300097	The Death of Kings (Emperor, Book 2)	Books	3	46	52	N	N	Not quite what it could be....	After reading the first one I stated that I thought the series would get better and better.<BR>Unfortunately not., but it's no worse than the first.<BR>Any complaints about historical mangling in the first novel will only be increased on reading this one and I suspect it'll either get great reviews or bad reviews depending on your need for historical accuracy.<BR>Iggulden's second novel `Emperor: The Death of Kings' opens with the young tessarius Gaius Julius Caesar part of a naval party storming the fortress town of Mytilene to rescue governor Paulus. The chapter serves, as does much of the previous novel and this one, to demonstrate the episodic nature of Caesar's rise through the ranks as he overcomes physical obstacles and personally rescues the governor.<BR>As with the preceding novel anyone with any knowledge of the period and the characters will swiftly realise the gaping historical inaccuracies, fundamental character reversals and disappearances of other key people (Marcus Tullius Cicero the most blatant) continue in this volume. This is neatly demonstrated by Sulla's death at the hands of Tubruk's ice sorbet.<BR>Still....we move swiftly on to the episode with the pirates, a clout to the head being the given cause of Caesar's future epilepsy and follow Marcus Brutus as he returns a centurion and promptly cuts a swathe through the female nobility of Rome with more alacrity after meeting with his mother Servilia who is a high class courtesan. From there we focus on Julius' destruction of Mithridates, his retention of his home in the law courts, his continuing enmity with Suetonius and now the portly Cato and the hiccup with Brutus over the recreation and command of Marius' Primigenia legion (which never existed). Once all this has settled down Julius lopes off with his wolves to take on Spartacus which he does by holding the left flank after Lepidus dies mid-battle. Eventually, both Pompey and Caesar get to avenge themselves on Cato after members of their families are murdered by Cato's command.<BR>By the end this is a good historical fantasy (in fact it's almost an alternative history) best evidenced by the running title of the quartet as Caesar was never an Emperor (in fact it was his suggested kingly ambition that got him assassinated) but historical accuracy is not fundamental to Iggulden's story. An excellent example of this is when by page 190 or so of the hardback version we find the future true first emperor of Rome, Augustus, (who's not Caesar's great nephew but cousin in this interpretation) as a thieving street urchin with his impoverished mother, stealing butcher chops and getting involved in fights before being carted off to Uncle Julius for some horseriding training. Reality is entirely suspended.<BR>So, for its merits as a historical fantasy Iggulden provides a sequel that is faced-paced, easily readable and exciting, providing action, love, politics, war and peace against a tumultuous backdrop of change. <BR>The key to dissatisfaction, however, is that  the lack of historicity leaves a slightly sour taste and the characters are two-dimensional which leaves this reader feeling no justice is being done to these historical greats. <BR>I confess the historical purist in me makes me undecided as to whether I will read the third installment but there is no denying it is an exciting, easy read. If writing a flowing historical fantasy plucking some names from Roman history was Iggulden's aim, then he gets 4 stars. If it is intended as historical fiction based on reality it would get one star. <BR>Whatever your thoughts on it, one thing is clear - this needs considerable improvement if it aspires to the dizzy heights of  McCullough or Saylor or Davis...	2004-03-02
US	50323648	RFWF372EUJ2AZ	0312289588	284552075	Scarecrow	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Even more action...	Reilly's fifth novel and third Shane Schofield effort opens even faster than all the previous, if such a thing were possible. After a terse intro where we're told that the world's twelve richest men have issued a massive bounty on twelve highly skilled service operatives (Shane included), we find our erstwhile hero heading into deepest Siberia to the Krask-8 facility to secure a location taken over by terrorists claiming they'll fire the nuclear missiles that have been conveniently forgotten about since the end of the Cold War. The only member of his seven man team retained from the previous Area 7 is Book II (son of Book) as his girlfriend, Libby Gant, and Mother are on another mission.<BR>Reilly neatly crosses the two Delta force operatives off the hitlist as Shane locates their headless bodies in the vast submarine repair hangar just before some really bad guys open up on him....and continue shooting for the next four hundred-plus pages.<BR>We move from scene to scene as the world becomes Scarecrow's hunting ground. After escaping the Siberian facility he learns of the motives behind the attack and of the groups of bounty hunters, featuring the Zulu, Zamanov and his teams of Skorpions, Killian's Executive Solutions, Larkham's IG-88, the Hungarian and  Alyssa Idei - the latter two are somewhat puzzling as they inexplicably disappear mid-plot and are never mentioned again - all of whom are after him. <BR>Moving immediately to the Karpalov Coal Mine in the Hindu Kush where his girlfriend, Libby Gant and Mother are involved in a four way battle to flush out terrorists who are inadvertently themselves a target for the bounty hunters he is saved by Aloysius Knight (misjudged hero) who is his self-declared protector for an even greater fee. The novel splits to follow Knight, Schofield, Gant, Mother and Faifax as they come together and split on missions through the remainder of the novel. The action is non-stop and incredible. For example, during one of the Forteresee deValois episodes the Scarecrow races down a coastal road putting a bunch of highly supercharged cars through paces that even their engineers haven't thought of, takes out more aircraft with more assorted weaponry  than you'd believe possible and still swims away to a French aircraft carrier (which he manages to blow up). It basically carries on like this throughout on land sea and air as Scarecrow foils the supertankers and ends up disarming an ICBM in an X25 doing Mach 6 60feet away from the missile. The trusty maghook makes multiple life-saving appearances throughout as well.<BR>The plot is fairly convoluted though it effectively deals with the meglomaniac aims of one of the Majestic-12 group to create a war that appears to have been triggered by global terrorism in order to recreate a global Cold War, thus making millions on the armaments that would subsequently be demanded. However, we focus on Jonathan Killian who has his own personal motives and is particularly evil with his shark pit in his medieval castle. The twelve men on the hitlist are selected for their ability to cause the plan to fail (Schofield's particular gift being his reflex ability allows him to disarm the entire weaponry system that is needed for the plan to be carried out) and by the end only Schofield is left to sort the mess out.<BR>After every Reilly novel you think it couldn't get any bigger in its death defying, adrenaline packed, action roaring stunts, but each one, somehow, does. Forget plausibility, don't even bother to attempt to suspend reality, these novels swash Capt. Shane Schofield to buckle through more bad guys, use more weaponry and escape death in a more fantastic manners than any Bond or Superhero could even dream of. In fact, this is one book in which the level of action would run a blockbuster movie into the billion dollar mark in an attempt to recreate. Reilly's novels demand you forget plausibility and to criticise them for action inaccuracy, unbelievable action and cliched one-liners and a screenplay feel that's not given much thought in its construction is to miss their point entirely. If you want an action novel that quite, frankly, leaves Indiana, Dirk Pitt, et al in the shade, then Reilly's the writer for you.	2004-03-02
US	50323648	R1S5VAA3N4RN9U	0765302284	842363302	Cleopatra's Heir	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A marvellous novel	It is a rare novel that by midpoint you can pause and realise not much has actually happened but you've been thoroughly entertained. A case of exploration of the human condition taking precedence over plot. In an historical novel, it is even rarer, nevertheless Gillian Bradshaw has achieved this in a remarkable fashion. Admittedly it is the first of her novels I have read, but it will be by no means the last.<BR>Cleopatra's Heir provides an alternative history to the fate of Julius Caesar's and Cleopatra' son, Caesarion, of whom historical scholars confidently have us know that he was executed c.30B.C after the fall of Mark Anthony and Cleopatra. In this version, we find the epileptic eighteen year old waking up on top of his own funeral pyre, rolling off with a stab wound to his side and lurching off into the distance whilst Rome celebrated his demise.<BR>What follows is the gradual transition of a boy raised, as Bradshaw so eloquently puts it, to be a King of all, yet totally obedient to a man in control of what little destiny he retains. His emotional strength in the face of such social suffering means we have a story where one class of man is forced to experience another and, in doing so, becomes a rather better person for it. The story itself is simply told: found by an Egyptian trader named Ani, the newly named Arion is forced to accept the merchant's kindness as he  is nursed back to health on Ani's journey to Berenike. Whilst there an attempt to depart to locate his ship leads to another of the frequent seizures and the forming of his identity to all as Arion, ex-Friend of Caesarion, gentleman and secretary to Ani.<BR>All the time fuming at his newly perceived lowly station the two form an inseparable bond, further added to by Arion's gradual burgeoning love for Ani's sixteen year old daughter, Melanthe.<BR>A journey to Alexandria, for the still unnamed once king-elect to see if his mother is still alive, for Ani's family to secure his new partnership with the Greek Kleon, brings trouble of an imperial and personal nature as Arion's seizures lead to his capture by Octavian and Ani's trading dispute with the bitter Lord Aristodemos (who's patronage with Kleon has been usurped) leads to the kidnap of Melanthe.<BR>Amongst it all the kingly attitude of Arion takes shape and transforms from arrogance to kindly benefactor as he comes to terms with his fate, finds and forgives, Rhodon, his betrayer, and seeks clemency for all who have helped him when faced with his second cousin and Marcus Agrippa. The end is a safe one and one the reader must demand such is the development of our respect for Arion.<BR>Gillian Bradshaw has written a powerfully emotive novel of a fall from grace but the saving of a person. Through it a message of kindly living and aid to other shines brightly and a sense of achievement is portrayed. A young man struggling to overcome both social and physical problems is epitomised in a fluid writing style and creates a real sense of belonging to the characterisation in a manner that many historical novels lack. Bradshaw is one author that, for this reader at least, not reading any novel she produces wouldn't be given a second thought.	2004-02-23
US	50323648	R2DPTYLBRHZOFK	0712625569	196680666	The Accusers	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Can only be accused of brilliance	Falco's back in Rome in this latest installment and after his two-novel trip to southern Britain he seems all the better for it as he strolls round his old haunting ground with some alacrity. A fast paced, excellently written novel, Davis has restored the faith that was beginning to wane after the previous `Bathhouse' and `Jupiter'.<BR>The Accusers finds our erstwhile detective being called upon by one of his informing peers who, having secured the conviction for bribery of one Gnaeus Rubirius Metellus during his son's (Metellus Negrinus) tenure as aedile, finds himself cheated out of his 25 percent fee by the convict's subsequent apparent suicide. Silius Italicus refuses to believe this and hires Falco &amp; Associates to check out the facts.<BR>With the Camillii in tow Davis gives us a quick report of the investigation in a format that in entirely new to her writing - a glimpse at Falco's written casebook where details of the suspects are given, leading to a subsequent confession by a herbalist that Metellus Rubirius' eldest daughter, Rubiria Juliana, (there is also the somewhat optimistically naive, Rubiria Carina) had given her father gold coated hemlock pills on the basis the gold would not dissolve and thus prevent release of the poison. However, the gold had failed in its task and as such the conclusion was accidental death. Coming so quickly it is obvious that there is a far more deeper plot, but a desire for funds means that Falco doesn't dig deeper until well after Saturnalia at which point he discovers that Silius has commenced prosecution for murder against Juliana. This also falls apart and eventually we come to the main plot which is Falco's defence of Metellus Negrinus for parricide against both Silius and Paccius countered by his own accusation against Rubirius Metellus's wife, Calpurnia Cara<BR>What follows is an enjoyable exercise in sleuthing as Falco, ably assisted by the Camillii, works his way through a list of suspects as long as your arm andfamilial collusion that prevents much of the truth from being outed.  Having to figure out where Negrinus' (not so fondly known as `Birdy') attachments to his ex-wife, Saffia Donata (also an ex-wife of his best friend Lucius Licinius Lutea) and the multitude of surviving children actually lie proves a headache as Falco uncovers corruption, scandal and major blackmail.<BR>Eventually, half snippets of information and tracking down of various slaves and tradesmen and a soothsayer leads Falco to the eventual triple denouement as he hauls the entire Metelli family into a sitting room to unravel a web of deceit and lies simply to protect a family name that is as spectacular as it is brilliantly exposed.<BR>The finest moment of the novel has a rendition of Falco's speech in the murder courts where Davis has a chance to pit her rhetorical oratory against the surviving greats of Roman speech-making (Cicero being the obvious) and, inevitably comes nowhere near them. However, in good humour, Falco's correct slander of the prosecutors, Italicus and Africanus and their own seedy history proves a delightful episode and his subsequent own blackmail of The Accusers allows him pecuniary redress.<BR>Lindsey Davis fifteenth Falco novel finds him back on home territory and we settle easily back in to the comfort that is Imperial Rome (though Davis does explore some new writing styles to keep it fresh) with an alacrity that was missing from the preceding two efforts. Falco has certainly aged through his career and his informing is genuinely reflecting his social position and experience. Preferring to leave the physical side of matters to Aelianus and Justinus, he can spend more time thinking out the solution and the development of Falco &amp; Asscociates works well.<BR>As ever, a must-read.	2004-02-23
US	50323648	R9ZT8NFZ75E9R	0786929502	980472752	Dragons of a Vanished Moon (Dragonlance: War of Souls, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epic	The final part of the War of Souls trilogy finds Tas and Conundrum escaping the clutches of Mina and discovering that there is a past. <BR>It finds Gilthas undergoing his own soul searching and deciding to lead his people to Silvanesti via the Plains of Dust. <BR>It finds Silvanoshei continuing his inexprable march to doom. <BR>It finds Gerard and Odila desperately trying to find a way out of the darkness. <BR>It finds Palin and Dalamar working from beyond death. <BR>It finds Malys, Razor and Mirror deciding the fate of dragonkind.<BR>It finds the Gods back in Krynn for a titanic battle. <BR>And, above all, it finds us a conclusion fitting to this epic world.<BR>The fourth Age builds to its tremendous climax as elves, ogres, minotaurs, dragons, humans, gods and the souls of the dead all gather at Sanction for a final terrible battle where the balance is restored and the Book of Judgement of Gilean finally gives us the solution to Takhisis' attempt to rule Krynn once and for all.<BR>The final volume in the fourth age of Krynn, the final volume before the Age of Mortals can begin, is a rich tapestry of love and war, heroes and villains set against a wonderful struggling backdrop of life and death, of magic and mortaility woven in a truly breathless manner by the undisputed current masters of fantasy, Weis and Hickman.<BR>This book, this trilogy, the entire world of Krynn and its heroes that has been created deserves six stars and beyond and any fan of the fantasy genre must have this on their bookshelves.	2004-02-04
US	50323648	R1MGQOTDENB82S	0786927062	485622641	Dragons of a Lost Star (The War of Souls, Volume II)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	No longer lost...	The second volume in Weis &amp; Hickman's newest pure dragonlance trilogy, The War of Souls, finds us deep in Silvanesti, Qualinesti, the Citadel and Solanthus as we follow the four plot threads. By the end more and more reader suspicions are clarified as the authors begin let us understand what is truly happening here and it comes as no surprise to find the hand of Takhisis amongst it all.<BR>The novel focuses on Tasslehoff and Palin's fleeing of the green dragon's, Beryl, sack of the Citadel and rescue by Dalamar who has literally uprooted the Tower of High Sorcery and transplanted it in Lord Soth's old residence. There is stands, surrounded by a forest inhabited by the souls of the dead who crave magic. Magic, in return for release to the next life as promised by the The One God, so naively championed by Mina, Goldmoon's foster daughter. <BR>Meanwhile in Qualinesti the besotted General Medan converts truly to the elven cause, in no small part due to his love for Laurana and sets about organising the fleeing of the Qualinesti elves through the dwarven kingdom of Thorbardin. This they achieve after a titanic battle with Beryl, but the cost is high - the destruction of Qualinost and Laurana has her own sun shattered on a parapet with a dragonlance.<BR>Over in Silvanesti, with Cyan Bloodbane dead, the shield gone, Mina enters the capital, eagerly welcomed by the besotted Silvanoshei and is `murdered' by the framed king only to arise again with a Death dragon-like phoenix from the ashes as she appears to be one of the few able to wield magic in a world that is absent of it.<BR>With Silvanesti under attack the plot gathers inexorable pace as Mina storms Solanthus, ably defended by the luckless Gerard and his new partner, Odila (who brings fresh breath of character life whilst all around are dying), Tasslehoff escapes the Tower after thinking Dalamar and Palin want to kill him but then returns with Goldmoon in tow for her confrontation with Mina in front of the portal to the Abyss - the same portal that Weis and Hickman return to so often as it really is the key to all knowledge.<BR>By the end we have a denouement of sorts as the truth behind the One God comes out (but not to the parties that really need to know) and more established characters are removed from the board, leaving Tasselhoff as the key to it all.<BR>It is difficult to praise Weis and Hickman in a manner that they haven't rightly heard before. Over the last twenty years Dragonlance has become a huge phenomenon with lots of spin offs and development of the world of Krynn on a scale that is truly exhilarating. However, one thing that is noticeable is that, amongst all the necessary surrounding dragonlance novels, a book from the pens of the creators stands head and shoulders above the rest and it is perhaps right that it should do so. Dragonlance has defined a generation of fantasy fans and any book produced by this peerless duo deserves six stars and beyond.	2004-02-02
US	50323648	R27RM3TXMEKU9X	0349113157	189448319	Alexander at the World's End	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A sharp philosophical satire	Alexander at the World's end pokes a very sharp satirical wit at ancient Greece, targeting, in particular, Athens, Alexander the Great and philosophy in a manner that is exhilarating.<BR>This is the story of Euxenus, whom we find reminiscing at the end of his life to Phryzeutzis about his life, his philosophy and the nature of fate.<BR>Euxenus was one of seven brothers who find themselves parentless in the Athenian democracy just after the expulsion of the Thirty Tyrants and coinciding with the birth of Alexander. Having each been farmed out to the worst teachers in their professions (in Euxenus' case to Diogenes the Yapping Dog philosopher) Euxenus finds himself on the wrong end of a white pebble, disinherited and starting his own successful DIY prophecy business. After nine years of moving up in the philosophy circles our erstwhile hero finds himself part of an Athenian delegation to Philip II of Macedon who has just seen fit to storm the city of Olynthus. A subsequent opportune meeting with the young Alexander and a delightful educational episode involving bees leads to his appointment as a tutor to the future military great. After his acceptance in the Macedonian military household we follow as the `Athenian wizard' and his snake in a jar (which Alexander makes come true) starts to educate the Macedonian prince and his entourage to open their minds. The irony is that, for a man who mocks Aristotle as much as Euxenus does (and the story of the mythical town at the end of the world ending in Aristotle's public humiliation is hilarious) his logic is remarkably peripatetic.<BR>By mid-book, Euxenus finds himself on the receiving end of olive stones fate as Philip orders him to be the oceia (founder) of the new colony of Olbia on the Black Sea. Setting off with his new and angry wife, Theano they arrive at the intended site and Euxenus is forced to experience the administrative problems of leading a group settling on land near an annoyed Scythian tribe with all its tribulations. Inadvertent raids, a suspected affair between wife and merchant-friend Tyrsenius and getting the colony up and running take us through the next ten years as his son grows alongside our erstwhile hero. Meanwhile, Philip II dies after Charonea and Alexander assumes the throne. Eventually they manage to self-produce their own alcohol thus giving them a good reason to name their city officially - Antolbia. During the celebration an open city gate allows a band of Scythians to storm the city, killing many founders and Euxenus' son. The repercussions are enormous as Theano leaves and the Antolbians finally destroy the neighbouring village. Euxenus leaves for Athens and on his arrival back home learns of the sack and destruction of Antolbia.<BR>After attempting to become the perfect farmer he suddenly finds himself on the receiving end of orders from Alexander to be the oceist for the city of Sogdania and during his trip to the city comes across his surviving brother Eudaemon, breaking his leg in the process.<BR>During the course of one evening as Eudaemon is laid up, he explains to Euxenus why the latter has messed his life up so much simply by association and how Yapping Dog philosophy has so greatly shaped Alexander's ideology to the point that Euxenus the Philosopher is now the second most renowned man in the Empire. Eudaemon goes through his appointment as Keeper of the Bees, to the siege of Tyre all the while under the influence of mind-altering drugs in an attempt to combat the effect of bee stings to his ironic destiny as saviour of Alexander whilst attempting his assassination. It is a faultless exercise in how ideologies can be rooted in persuasion rather than genuine theory as, in a magnificent irony, Euxenus finds his offhand philosophy has shaped and affected an entire world.<BR>By the end Euxenus finishes his tired autobiography to Phryzeutzis whilst sitting in Sogdania reinforces the underlying premise of the book that &quot;Alexander was a forceof nature. He was a force of history&quot; that was guided by Yapping Dog philosophy. Holt's grasp of his subject matter is key to turning this subject into an extremely sharp piece of wit. His grasp of Athenian politics, Macedonian history and both the Greek language and philosophy means that the text is littered with subtle nuances and pokes neat fun at ancient philosophy in an endearing attempt to humanize legendary characters. This is a magnificent effort from Holt's pen and well worth the time to read.	2004-01-30
US	50323648	R199C753C9ZIYX	0727860089	168568586	Second ACT	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not second class at all....	Marilyn Todd brings back Claudia Seferius for her tenth mystery and doesn't disappoint.<BR>Continuing her method of introducing italicized anonymous insights into the mind of the murderer(s) we commence with 'The Digger' burying another body in the hills outside Rome. Meanwhile, in the city itself Claudia has a host of troubles coming on her at Saturnalia, most of them self-induced as usual. Shady deals with Moschus to feign loss of her wine (which she's selling at a loss in the first place) ensures her double dealings with Butico are instantly spotted by the latter who promptly threatens her unless she pay back the owed monies at an exorbitant thirty-two percent interest. At the same time the patron-client custom of handing out silver on this festive holiday (and a lack of funds to do so) means the ever-intrepid Claudia invites a theatrical group - 'Caspar's Spectaculars' - into her home to perform for her guests, thus giving our author a lot of suspects for the reader to puzzle through as 'The Digger' is amongst them. The excellent group, comprising Ion, Syles, Periander, Doris, Adah, Jemima, Fenja, Erinna, Hermione and Ugly Phil gives Todd the chance to have a multitude of  potential victims and killers with which she entwines in an ever more confusing manner.<BR>Meanwhile, Claudia's true love (though she'd never admit it), supersnoop Marcus Orbilio, has landed the post of tribune but is more concerned with the reappearance of the Halcyon rapist, whom he thought captured and executed a year ago. Is it just a copycat, or did Marcus condemn an innocent man? Also juggling the attentions of the overly promiscuous Angelina, he sets off to track down the rapist who is now targeting people close to Marcus whilst Claudia takes the time to sort out her extended family, ending Marcellus' gold-digging affair, giving plain Flavia a dose of infatuation and the dour Julia some pointers on how to maintain her marriage.<BR>The novel skips through as Claudia gains her revenge onMoschus and Butico with the help of Orbilio, he assuages his feelings of guilt over prosecuting the wrong man last year and helps one victim, Deva and her older husband, a herbalist, by putting them up in his house, which is promptly burned down by the delusional pixie. Meanwhile, both separately realize who the Halcyon rapist is, Orbilio confronting and arresting him whilst Claudia finds herself kidnapped by the Senator Sextus Valerius Cotta who is desperate to discover the secret of gunpowder in his very own Guy Fawkes plot. It is this latter minor plotline that actually reveals the truth as to what's going on her by its very act of separation and we end up with true love by the time Erinna takes a nosedive off the higher reaches of a wool warehouse. By the end, Claudia lets her guard slip and she allows a glimpse of her true feelings for supersnoop to come out. The historical purist will find lots of historical inaccuracies and implausiblities, the vernacular been the glaring one, but it doesn't matter. Claudia Seferius is an irreverant but delightful heroine and her forthright journey through the early principate makes the series immensely readable. Another fine and recommended effort from the pen of Todd.	2004-01-19
US	50323648	R2SWZ2A2IWYDVF	0333351959	972518539	Island of Adventure	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great series and a great opener	I bought this recently for my son having fond memories of it myself when I was ten years old and, inevitably, found myself reading it again to see if it was as great as I remembered.<BR>It was.<BR>The opener in Blytons adventure series introduces us to Jack and Lucy-Ann Trent who are orphans and Jack and Dinah who spend most of their time with their aunt Polly and Uncle Joscelyn whilst not at school. It also introduces us to Kiki the parrot, Jacks extremely verbose feathered friend.<BR>This holidays find them at a summer school, ostensibly for Jack and Philip where they meet and become great friends. Jack is bird-mad, Lucy-Ann adores her brother, Philip loves all creatures and Dinah is his fiery-tempered yet forgiving sister.<BR>After managing leave the summer school and return to Philips and Dinahs uncle and aunts house, Craggy Tops, the four find themselves in the middle of an adventure as they see strange goings on at Gloom Island. Coupled with a secret passageway to the cellars and Joe, the handymans, prying and nasty actions it swiftly develops. They meet and befriend Bill Smugs who is staying at a lonely small house on the cliffs and he shows them how to sail which eventually takes them to Gloom Island and into some mines for a truly exciting adventure.<BR>Coming from the pen of historys most prolific childrens books writer, the opener in the eight-book series is just as exciting for my son now as it was for me all those years ago. The adventures of Jack, Lucy-Ann, Dinah, Philip and Kiki the Parrot fuel the imagination and are a delight to follow.	2004-01-19
US	50323648	R1PGZ07XY3PQPT	0553576208	606595727	The Trigger	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Interesting...	This collaberation between Clarke and Kube-McDowell takes a simple `what if?' question and develops it in a logical manner to its eventual cyclical conclusion. In this case the `what if?' is `What if we were able to render all nitrate-based munitions impotent?' What would the global, political and social consequences be? <BR>In `Trigger' our authors seek to pursue this to its ultimate conclusion with a massive dose of cutting edge physics and mathematics thrown in along the way.<BR>The story focuses on the Terabyte corporation, whose bright young spark, Dr Jeffrey Horton, experiences scientific serendipity one day and discovers that he has created a machine that destabilises any nitrate-based compound, effectively acting as a detonator. Not only that, it has a range that is dictated only by its power. Inevitably, the realization occurs that this can act as an invisible shield as all known munitions simply explode or decay on contact with the edge of the shield thus paving the way for a fiercely debated topic as to the constitutional legitimacy of effectively  removing the second act of the US constitution.<BR>Very quickly, Horton and his boss, Karl Brohier, decide to release the discovery to the US government and President Mark Breland authorizes the development of the Trigger, thus loosing all the inherent issues that come with it. Over the next few hundred pages we are treated to debate at the highest level, amongst all forums possible as to the constitutionality of the trigger, its global impact and the social upheaval that it brings. This debate in its various forms dominates most of the book, Senator Wilman and Senator Trent taking it to its personal conclusion.<BR>As the politics and debate rage, the Trigger continues to be developed, version 2 giving some ability to control a `beam' and then the discovery that a Jammer can be developed that takes the initial `hammer' effect that the Trigger version 1 has and convert it to a tool that safely disables all munitions. This is based on the scientific realization that the universe is simply a set of information instructions that binds energy and that if you change the instructions you can change anything. In a lot of respects, it's the ultimate alchemical answer - lead can truly be turned to gold.<BR>The book's lengthy conclusion has Horton being kidnapped by a group demanding to know how to shield themselves from the effects of the Trigger and his final rescue before the final logical scientific step is taken in the last pages when they realize that as DNA enables them to isolate any specific individual then any single person can be uniquely targeted for expiry. So, by the end, we have come full circle and discovered that the ability of universal alchemy  not only gives the means to save lives, but also to take it away.<BR>I found this an intriguing piece of science fiction from the acknowledged master of the genre and Clarke's co-authorship with Kube-McDowell is written in a manner that makes compulsive reading. Laced throughout with the necessary debate that such an invention would engender, this is another fine effort.	2004-01-12
US	50323648	R72IPGYLNDGGZ	0393020282	114452961	The Battle That Stopped Rome: Emperor Augustus, Arminius, and the Slaughter of the Legions in the Teutoburg Forest	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A good general starter....	I bought this book in the hope it would offer new evidence and discussion on the infamous loss of the Varus legions in the Teutoberg forest in AD 9. However, it amalgamates to what is in effect the general history reader's guide to the Roman Empire's policies and strategies during the early principate delivered in a popular history style. If it is intended to translate to the small screen as a documentary it would succeed very well as anyone who has no knowledge at all of the period and the events would find it explains both background and actions extremely well. However, anyone with knowledge of the event will find this a disappointing effort as it offers nothing new, simply rehashing currently accepted theory based on the wealth of archeologicial evidence. To be honest I skipped several sections based on the titles as they provided no more that general background knowledge and in some respects the fact that the format of the text allows you to do this is quite effective as you can dip in and out more easily.<BR>The author would have us think that this battle has been lost in the mists of time but I am not too certain why given most of my contemporaries have heard of the battle, if not the events surrounding it, at the very least.<BR>Simply put, this is written for the general history reader or pre-college student, not for the university or serious historical scholar, but there is certainly a place for this type of history book on the shelves. So, certainly recommended for the general history audience but specialists in the subject will find it offers nothing new.	2004-01-07
US	50323648	R3AZXZOYNUIEOE	0593048881	641065749	Arbella: England's Lost Queen	Books	5	56	66	N	N	An necessary reintroduction to Arbella Stuart	Not sure why this is called 'Arabella' as the subject matter's name is 'Arbella', nevertheless...<BR>It's a given that any one raised in a school in England is thoroughly grounded in Tudor history. I recall spending several years at a young age learning all about Henry VIII, his wives and Elizabeth I (plus the rest of the dynasty) so it came as a major surprise to learn of Arbella Stuart, claimant to the throne after 1603 whom history has effectively written out through Sarah Gristwood's excellently accessible scholarship. With a title (as the author notes) designed to capture the emotive intellect that surrounds our perception of England's glorious Tudor period, we plunge headfirst into the intricate and politically dangerous world of England's Tudor/Stuart hereditary tree in a manner that opens up a whole new view on the period. And a fascinating one at that....<BR>Arbella Stuart was considered during the late sixteenth century as no less than the second claimant in line for the English throne, potentially the successor if the no foreign monarch can succeed `clause' was invoked, thereby negating the claim of Mary, Queen of Scots' son, James. It was to be a claim that was to cause Arbella no end of personal distress.<BR>The book opens with Arbella's birth and the inherent dangers of her claim to the throne. As Gristwood wryly notes, Arbella's godparents where mainly aunts and uncles on the maternal side, rather than those on the royalty side, most of her ancestors having been decimated in the post Henry VIII melee. By the age of six her mother and father had died and she was under the considerable influence of one of the richest women of the Elizabethan, age, Bess Cavendish. We move on in the next few chapters to deal with Arbella's coming of age at the Elizabethan Court, her young faux pas with Elizabeth and her life growing up under Bess. She is portrayed as an adolescent fully aware of her part in the dynasty and is used as a pawn by the aging Elizabeth to dangle in front of the European nobility as a potential successor, highlighted by her swift removal from danger when the Spanish armada neared in 1588. However, as Gristwood acknowledges, the 1590's were a period that reflected the changing nature of Elizabeth's reign and correspondence on Arbella is somewhat silent until the last few months of Elizabeth's reign.<BR>During the spring of 1603 the author has full access to a range of epic (in length) letters written by Arbella to the court in an attempt to escape her enforced `prison' at Hardwick. Effecting a lover, profoundly affected (as was Elizabeth) by the execution of Lord Essex and drawing on all manner of aspiring courtiers she enters the political game with what appears to a loose grip on reality, prompting a discussion on the effects of porphyria. It all comes to naught as the Tudor period comes to an end and the Stuart begins under the guise of James I. By the end of it the accession of James is very easy, backed as he is by Robert Cecil, and Arbella faded once more into the background, yet still bound to her close position to the throne to be a manipulated pawn. We delve into the two Cecil-uncovered conspiracies of July 1603, which recent findings imply Arbella's complicity more keenly, though she escaped untouched, with Ralegh and Lord Cobham sentenced for treason. From here Arbella's life spirals into a loss of control as she is sidelined during the increasingly patriarchal society of James. During 1608, from Bess' death to Arbella's survival of smallpox, her fortunes waned until we enter the final phase of her life from 1610 - 1615 during which she desperately tried to snatch some personal freedom and self-control and ended up failing and starving to death in the Tower.<BR>Gristwood spends Part V looking at more detail at Arbella's letters and discussing her relationship with William Seymour, her daring to fall in love, secret marriage, King's fury and the last attempted flight to France that was reported onright at the beginning. Her fateful becalming and capture whilst William Seymour escaped led to her incarceration where she spent her remaining years wasting away.<BR>If there was ever a historical lesson in how high birth can lead to personal misery then Gristwood has portrayed it. A total captive of her royal birth, a political pawn used without much personal regard, Arbella Stuart faded out of English royal history with the intended whimper that her stronger rivals intended to the degree that her name is uncommon to the Tudor/Stuart history class. What Gristwood has done, admirably, is redraw our attention to this almost-queen in a manner that explains much of the politics of not only a change in monarch, but a change in dynasty. Three appendicies go on to explain some more detail of Arbella, such as her potential porphyria and this piece of scholarship would have been further improved by inclusion of more of her letters (I think we only see one page template) in order to better verify the author's conclusions, but this aside anyone interested in Tudor/Stuart dynasties or English medieval succession should read this book.	2004-01-02
US	50323648	R506U8RSIFBJY	0812571339	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	3	3	12	N	N	A necssary crossroads	Jordan's tenth installment is more a kind of `here's what happened to everyone else during the excitement of the Winter's Heart'. Taking place at almost precisely the same time as Rand's epic battle to cleanse saidin of the Dark Lord's taint at Shadar Logoth, we open with Roelde Ituralde finally bringing the Taraboners et al together to strike at the Seanchan. Meanwhile, most of the saidin/saidar aware world can spot the beacon that is Rand miles away that shines throughout most of the novel. As with most times when people relise that they are out of their depths, they ignore it, though we spend a great deal of time with Elayne as she prepares for the twin births of Rand's children whilst negotiating her way through murky Andorian and Windfinder politics with Birgitte and Aviendha at her side. On the other side of the snowy world, Perrin keeps a loose rein on the insane Masema, tracks down the renegade Shaido sept and prepares to infiltrate the camp to rescue his wife, Faile. Over to the East, Mat continues on his travelling circus way with the ever enigmatic Tuon, his potential Seanchan Daughter of he Nine Moons bride. Near Tar Valon, Egwene struggles to deal with the politics of being Amyrlin seat and comes up with several new policies that has the austere Aes Sedai squabbling in a heated senatorial-esque display of petulance - nevertheless, negotiations are opened with the Black Tower. By the end of it all, Rand is still healing up after cleansing saidin, though feeling a trifle sick throughout and at the end Egwene ends up kidnapped.<BR>Admittedly, after volume nine this one doesn't particularly go anywhere, but it does set up quite a few new points for the next ones. A world without a tainted saidin should prove very interesting. What makes Jordan such a delight for me is the length of this series. Many times throughout my reading life I have ended an excellent series wishing for more, wanting it not to end. Sometimes the author recognizes this and we get the next generation which tends to fall somewhat short, Eddings being a good example of this. Whilst Jordan may have a dozen different reasons for not ending the series, what it has done (and I cannot fault the series for it is the pioneer), for one reader at least, by keeping the tale rolling (albeit at a snails pace) is keep the magic of the Wheel of Time alive.	2004-01-02
US	50323648	R3KPSI7TUK3X7R	0374227306	836307290	Genesis: A Novel (Crace, Jim)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Thought provoking	Genesis (or Six, as known in the UK) by Crace has his hero, Felix Dern (or Lix as he is shortened throughout) telling of your atypical male, overly fertile man who has just learned his wife of two years is pregnant. Her first, his sixth (all by different women). He is a stage actor, currently in Tartuffe (an irony intself as he plays a man who is his very antithesis) who is wandering through his local haunts, guilty over his feelings for his wife's cousin, Freda, his first love and second conquest. Rather than an night of intimacy he is instead roped by Freda into attempting to shelter a young activist (in an apologetic reminisence of his previous student activism dome twenty five years earlier).<BR>As both Lix and Mouetta fail to navigate through this Orwellian vision of the City of Kisses they end up celebrating their anniversary in a car in a park culminating in her pregnancy. Flicking between the thoughts of both as each seeks in private isolation to understand the questions and true meanings of the other, the primitive drives of each is laid open. Lix's preoccupation is driven by sexually-orientated vision, Mouetta's by both a desire to understand her husband, to be a mother and garner a self-assurance in her physical attractivity.<BR>As a result we float through a world given over to understanding the primal urges whilst consciously aware of the intruding, policed social world around us.<BR>Crace then moves us back to Lix's youth, stepping onwards through the key fertile moments in his life, moving through the remaining five pregnancies he has caused, from one sexually motivated escapade after another. We follow a history of Lix's life, ascertain how his second child, created by activism, was spurred by his desires, from his innocent `stalking', his third through his farcial attempts to kidnap of a millionaire all to make himself more desirable in the eyes of Freda, his fourth and fifth with his wife Alicja, the first of these during a flooding, the second inan implied guilt after we learn of her repetitive infidelity, and lastly with An, his co-actor, the opening stirrings of which were witnessed in secret by his now eighteen year old son, George, born of Freda. So at the very end we have a quick rerun of his children, Bel, George, Lech, Karl, Rosa and the newly pregnant Mouetta - an explanation of Lix's life and lost loves.<BR>Crace has created a dreamy world, shown in a fantastical light, where extreme opinions are somehow portrayed as `ultra-cool', but are ultimately safe from reality, a cocoon where intellectual posturing and touchings on the real world are merely pranks. Ultimately we see the facades that Lix presents are a facet of his chameleon-like unconscious stratgies to adapt his male desires to achieve his sexual goals and the results of those actions. We follow as he struggles to achieve and fails to explain his desires and suffers misperception as a result. We watch the women who have found him fascinating but ultimately seen through the unconscious faade and recognised his failings to materialise as a long term partner. A thought-provoking novel	2003-12-16
US	50323648	R12DKBHHR57S3S	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A monstrous wit	Pratchett's latest effort takes us into a parody of the regimented life in the army as we follow Sir Samuel Vimes, hot off the press from Nightwatch, as he resumes his ambassadorial role. This time we move to the land of Borogravia, constantly at war with the Zlobenians and follow the story of Polly Perks who has learned how to act like a boy (with the aid of a few well-placed socks) and joined up with her fellow recruits, the vampire Maledict, Tonker Shufti, Wazzer, the troll Corfundum, Igor, and Lofty, to name a few, under the command of the self-important and nasty corporal Strappi and the quietly heroic Sergeant Jackrum. After losing Strappi, very quickly, Polly's secret is out (as is most of the last regiment) and they find themselves on the front line with no training (as the war's going badly but this cannot be mentioned). Nevertheless, they manage to surprise and overcome an advance scout group of heavy dragoons under the command of the disguised Prince Heinrich (there is a very amusing episode as Sergeant Jackrum neatly maneuvers his way around Discworld's `geneva convention'-equivalent). Gradually, they stumble their way past a skirmish at a clacks tower, bump into William de Worde and the delightful Otto Chriek, deal with Maledict's coffee withdrawl symptoms, and eventually end up dressing as washerwomen to gain entry to the Zlobenian-held Kreck keep. Once inside, the ever-surprising lieutenant Blouse manages to steers them, with Polly's excellent guidance, to freeing all the prisoners with some explosive help, restore control of the keep to Zlobenian hands and then avoid a court martial with de Worde's intervention before Polly moves onto her next misison.<BR>Pratchett is without doubt the current master of satire across all genres. The subtety of his humour and his inoffensive parody is coruscating in its effectiveness, poking enjoyable fun at the establishment. By breaking all the usual rules our gallant ladies defy and rampage through the war with devastating effectiveness to show that in a war, there are no rules. Written with Pratchett's usual wit and razorsharp satire, this would come somewhere high up my list of Discworld recommended novels.	2003-12-10
US	50323648	R3NOV5R75QLK6Z	0399150803	642490368	Trojan Odyssey (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Trojan finale	Having read the joint effort, 'White Death' and this latest Dirk offering back-to-back, the former pales into insignificance against the latter. After the shocking finale to the previous Atlantis Found, whereby Dirk discovered he had adult twins, Dirk and Summer, born to his previously thought deceased wife of twenty-plus years ago, Cussler moves into Trojan Odysessy with a new lease of life. He also chooses to link the timeframes of White Death and this novel together with a brief meeting between Dirk and Kurt at NUMA, as the latter heads to the Canadian `fishery' that is so prominent in White Death. Unfortunately, White Death makes no mention of the storm of the century even though Kurt and Joe have heard about Dirk and the Ocean Wanderer. Still....<BR>Historical purists might wince at the paraphrasing of the Illiad and the Odyssey by our author, his condensing of ten years of epic into a ten week battle between the Dardanians and the Achaeans and a new slant on the Trojan Horse, but it has its reasons in the story to follow....<BR>The first part (and full third) of the novel opens at high speed with the storm of the century (Hurricane Lizzy) defying all previously known hurricane traits hurling herself across the Atlantic with 250mph+ winds devastating all human sea activity. Caught up are Dirk and Summer who are used as the storm's plaything in their marine outpost, Pisces. Having previously discovered a rare bronze urn in the shipwrecked Vandalia (thus linking us into our prologue) they narrowly escape death and are rescued by the ever familiar Dirk and Al, who have previously saved over a thousand lives on a floating hotel called Ocean Wanderer (owned by the mysterious Specter) together with the NUMA ship Sea Sprite and her hardly captain, Barnum from the effect of the hurricane.<BR>Part Two commences with the bronze artefact and Dirk's and Summer's instruction to investigate it more fully whilst Pitt and Giordino head towards Nicaragua to investigate the brown crud that is originating in the area, threatening the sealife. Whilst down there they come under scrutiny from the Odyssey corporation who promptly try to blow them up then chase them off with a hologrammatic projection of the pirate Leigh and some well placed missiles. Several battles later they end up in one of four great tunnels designed to allow the Pacific ocean into the Atlantic - allowing Max to prophesy an arctic winter for Europe for eight months a year - designed to enable the Odyssey corporation to cash in on their new source of free nitrogen-based energy. <BR>It ends up down to Pitt and Giordino to storm the Odyssey bastion, capture the evil Flidais and set off a volcanic eruption to literally squash the scheme. Meanwhile, Dirk and Summer end up on a celtic sacrificial altar as the other half of Odyssey, Epona, continues her personal insanity. Along the way Cussler gets to propose his alternative location for the battle of Troy and hence where Odysseus' voyage actually went. Inevitably, the Navidad Bank where the artefacts were located ended up being Circe's island and the treasure haul that Epona and Flidais had previously located had funded their empire.<BR>This volume is clearly a turning point in the Pitt series. By the end Al is moving on to technical director of NUMA, Sandecker's running for Vice President and Dirk is to become head of NUMA, thus paving the way for `Pitt:The Next Generation' novels which may be no bad thing. This latest volume is enjoyable in a true Cussler style and is portrayed as Dirk's swansong on the front line but so long as he retains an appearance in the future adventures then fans will continue to read them.  A vastly exciting volume, Cussler has produced one of his better Dirk Pitt novels and, at least for now, has nothing to fear from Kurt Austin....	2003-12-04
US	50323648	R25EWGY1U8KXUK	0399150412	196052103	White Death (NUMA Files)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Kurt's best outing	Kurt and Joe are back for their fourth installment in White Death. This time Cussler and Kemprecos have them called in to save a sunken Danish cruiser that was apparently deliberately rammed by the environmental group SOS during a protest against a grind by the Faroe Islanders. After rescuing the crew and determining the `accident' was caused by an act of sabotage Kurt ends up investigating a fish farm owned by the Oceanus corporation and discovering a hostile reception during his visit.<BR>The story runs two themes: the first of the bio-engineered fish (and all the ecological morality issues it entails) that seems to be the deadly guarded secret of Oceanus that SOS - personified by the overly melodramatic Ryan, the stoical Nighthawk (whose village was enslaved by Oceanus near the Canadian Great Lakes) and the beautiful Therri, the SOS lawyer, who provides Kurt's love interest The second theme, tying in the prologue is personified by Aguirrez, a descendant of the same named sixteenth century sailor who fled the Inquisition bearing the relics of Roland. Aguirrez becomes a good ally for Kurt whilst he is searching for the relics. Aguirrez aids NUMA with his personal floating armoured ship, the Navarre, allowing Austin and Zavala to use the boat as a point with which to infiltrate the Canadian `fish farm'. What follows is the usual mayhem as Austin and Zavala destroy the restored German pre-WWII blimp, feed the evil Professor to his genetically engineered fish, kill all the bad guys from the Eskimo Kiolyas and generally save the day.<BR>I must confess I do like the Austin novels. People will invariably compare to Dirk and have a favourite, but the writing style for both heroes runs a similar vein and it's a formula that works. <BR>However, of the Cussler/Kemprecos efforts this is the weakest to date as it suffers from a plot that never intrudes upon the reader as even faintly plausible, emphasized by Kurt's big dog-sled race through central DC which is ridiculous. Theclimatic end isn't really and the supporting characters are sketches. Having just read Trojan Odyssey straight after this, the gulf between the two novels is vast and can only favour Dirk, in the Pitt/Austin debate. Nevertheless, the previous three joint offerings were good and hopefully the fifth can return to those grandiose ways.	2003-12-03
US	50323648	R1SS288B9D86I3	0333906233	133323883	The Cure of Souls (Merrily Watkins Mysteries)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not much of a cure....	Rickman's fourth Merrily Watkins mystery (and ninth book overall) has our diocesian exorcist (or deliverance minister) struggling as always to deal with her life fighting the supernatural and the very real troubles of bringing up her sixteen year old, daughter, Jane, plus her own personal issues. From the start, the chain-smoking minister finds herself having to deal with a claimed case of demonic possession as a previously well brought up and God-fearing teenage girl, Amy Shelbourne, starts renouncing God and refusing to go to Church to the dismay of her devout foster parents. We are quickly given a reason as Amy claims (which we know is a lie from the opening prologue) that Jane forced her into a ouija board session and she met the spirit of her real mother, Justine.<BR>Running concurrently is a plotline involving Lol Robinson (he who denies his true feelings for Merrily) who is back in the recording studios, down the road from Merrily, at Prof Levinson's request to record a new album. Meanwhile, in Knight's Frome we find the new-age squire, Adam Lake, rebuying all the land up that his ancestor lost under a curse. The story runs that if you see the ghost of centuries-ago murdered Lady of the Bines (whom Lol inadvertently runs into very early on) then your hop harvest will fail. Lake runs into a PR adversary, Gerard Stock, the son-in-law of the recently murdered Stewart who has inherited land that Lake wants to rebuy. As such a very neighbourly feud takes on a supernatural slant as Stock goes to the papers after the local vicar, Simon St John, refuses to perform an exorcism on the place that Stock, claims is haunted.<BR>By the time we make it halfway through, Amy Shelbourne has attempted suicide and Merrily is called into Stock's house to perform the first exorcism (or `Cure of Souls'). It is at this point the novel begins to move as Stock not only records Lol and Merrily's incursion but also his immediate brutal killing of his wife. Amy runs away and her father isforced to explain to Merrily how Amy's real mother was killed in a church whilst a 3-year old Amy watched from the altar. Suddenly it all becomes more chilling as Merrily confronts Layla Riddock and her stepfather. Meanwhile the, as yet unfathomably linked, second plot has Gerard Stock killing himself before we finally begin to piece behind the true mystery of the Lady of the Bines and an unknown murder in the 60s that is causing the haunting of the kiln by a succubus. In a strange twist it is actually Jane and Eirion who come back from Wales to move the entire story to its bloody denouement as we learn that our protagonists are capable of great character misjudgement and what appears to be truth is inevitably incorrect.<BR>To be honest, this isn't Rickman's finest effort. I felt that the move towards a Merrily Watkins series has taken away the polished supernatural edge books like Crybbe and December possessed. The first half of this book is given over to establishing mystery of the intellectually confusing kind, rather than previous efforts which spent the first half ever so slowly building up a sense of creeping, chilly supernatural fear. Simply put, whilst you wouldn't read Crybbe on a dark, stormy night, you could quite cheerfully skim through this effort. Nevertheless, Rickman's currently the finest supernatural thriller writer out there right now and this is the kind of quality effort you'd expect.	2003-11-27
US	50323648	R35WSL2QUNBMYA	0061015725	245555180	Prey	Books	3	0	0	N	N	No Jurassic Park	Crichton's `Prey' preys on our fears of crossing nano-technology, genetic engineering, bacteria and swarm-like predatory instinct to create a tautly focused techno thriller in the Nevada desert.<BR>The story concerns Jack Forman, an out of work but brilliant AI developer who is undergoing somewhat of a transitory period in his life as he adjusts to being a house husband whilst his wife, Julia, who works for Xymos Technology, is growing increasingly estranged from him. As he struggles to maintain a normal family lifestyle whilst trying to see if her behavioural patterns fit those of a drug-induced problem or if she is having an affair (or both), he finds that the highly secretive work she is carrying out begins to intrude on their lives as their baby, Amanda is taken ill with an undiagnosable condition, but then recovers immediately.<BR>After Julia has a car crash, Jack finds himself being rehired by the company that previously sacked him and he flies out as a consultant to the Xymos facility where he finds the nano-engineering has escaped into the desert and is beginning to exhibit an alarming rate of evolution and developing distinctive predatory swarm-like tendencies. All bit like a twenty-first century artificial version of the classic `Swarm' scenarios.<BR>Throughout there is the reluctant corporate secrets and refusal to accept accountability, portrayed by the charming Ricky, and a small team of brilliant technologists who inevitably start dying one by one from anaphylactic shock.<BR>Tie this in with a highly evolved techno-species that is both parasitic and symbiotic and you get a bigger mystery facing Jack Forman. By the end, Jack has saved the unknowing world, but a great personal cost and Crichton leave us with a chilling message in not thinking through the consequences of our technological advances.<BR>The composition of this techno-thriller is not overly original, the small team, the isolated circumstances they cannot escape, an evolving predator, characters who are representative of bigger motives - all intended to create a claustrophobic effect. Unfortunately, it does make it a little predictable so by the time the real reasons behind the mysteries are given, you've already figured it out. Nonetheless, it does it in a way that is unputdownable. As with all Crichton novels this could easily be converted to the small screen and whilst it is no Jurassic Park, would prove sufficiently entertaining.	2003-11-21
US	50323648	R2VKBBTR6IDLWY	0385602642	591200758	Night Watch (Discworld)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Worth staying up all night to read	Pratchett's latest Discworld installment neatly ties in the time monks from the previous novel and with his overtly satirical mind he proceeds to delve into quantum physics with a sense of irony that is as subtle as it is brilliant. This time Sam Vimes is our protagonist, the brassed and reluctantly polished watch Commander sidetracked during a routine meeting with Lord Vetinari into a copper-roots level chase across the Unseen University rooftops after a murderer by the name of Carcer. During the storm-tossed chase he falls with Carcer into a rift in the time continuum and finds himself back in time with the villain in Ankh-Morpork just as hise younger self was making his first forays into the Watch. All of which gives Pratchett the perfect excuse to dredge up a whole lot of new characters and still remain in his glorious Discworld capital.<BR>Once Lse-Tsu, the Sweeper, has explained the science behind the events Vimes (now known as John Keel) finds he has four days in which to educate his younger self and locate and take Carcer back with him, all before the revolution. However, he has the major advantage of a)being intelligent, b)knowing all about what should happen. So he inveigles his way into becoming a Nightwatch sergeant-at-arms, promptly shakes up the accepted corruption within its ranks and then sets off on his mission. Fairly quickly he manages to upset the course of history by ensuring the Morphic Street Conspiracy didn't end in a massacre before realising that Captain Swing of the Unmentionables has now recruited Carcer as a sergeant.<BR>We plung headfirst into his efforts to ensure that the Treacle Mine Watch House doesn't get burned in the general looting and his struggle to create a sphere of normality in the revolution to prevent the amount of historical deaths his future self knows happened. He manages to gain revenge on the Unmentionables down in Cable Street, all the whilst keeping his younger self by his side gaining valuable experience. Eventually it all resolves itself in a manner that is truly remarkable and we see a side of an older and more anarchic Ankh-Morpork in the process.<BR>We get to see glorious cameos from younger selves throughout. The ones that stick in the memory are: Vetinari's unfazable younger self as an assassin in training, the street urchin, Nobby Nobbs, Fred Colon and a superb pre-`Cut-Me-Own'Throat' Dibbler. All of which lends itself to a Discworld novel back to its very best. The previous offering tended to flounder a little in the sheer volume of irony and satire at Pratchett's potential disposal and ended up being a trifle blunt, but this volume returns our author to the safe Night Watch which have such brilliant characters. Given the next two also focus on them, it means the latest installments are a must read.	2003-11-20
US	50323648	RVL1IP80X3EVD	0091779251	451458080	Pompeii	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting attempt....	Robert Harris' venture into the world of Imperial Rome provides a different slant on the usual historical method of fiction. More concerned with the engineering of the Aqua Augusta (the longest aqueduct in Italy at the time) seen through the eyes of its Aquarius - Marius Attilius Primus - the novel moves away from providing excitement through historical fictionalisation to a quiet retelling of one the ancient world's most famous cataclysms in a manner that touches on the style of a modern-day disaster novel.<BR>I suspect that a Robert Harris fan and a Roman historical fan who has not read Harris before will review this offering rather differently. The only flaw I felt with this novel was that (approaching it as a historical fiction fan and being the first of Harris' books I have read) its `new' style made it, initially, all the more intriguing and readable. Yet, by the end I felt that Harris had missed one of the tenets of historical fiction - namely to ensure its main protagonists are given a vibrancy and life that makes us want to read about them. Whilst several of the supporting actors, Ampliatus and Pliny to be precise, achieved this our main `hero', for whom Harris goes to great lengths to stress his intellectual, honest and almost stoic mindset ends up being a character that we `watch' rather than `follow'. At a technical level the contrasting characterisations are excellent and clearly display Harris' class and ability to understand how to write a novel, but his literary expertise has meant the empathy with the main character is minimal at best. Simply put, the novel could have been so much more. <BR>The story concerns the newly promoted Aquarius in charge of the aqueduct whom we find on the opening day searching for spring water and discovering very quickly that a breach in the aqueduct around the area of Vesuvius has both contaminated the water and then prevented its flow. In a humanising touch our erstwhile hero leaps to rescue a hapless slave who is beingkilled at Misenum's Villa Hortensia by the  owner, freedman Numerius Popidius Ampliatus (who controls the surrounding areas through his plutocracy and also has the best line in the entire novel on page 134 of the hardback version: \\"there's no safer investment than property in Pompeii\\") after his prized red mullet fish are found floating in their pool. To complete the introduction we are offered a tantalising sub-plot love theme with the introduction of his eighteen year old daughter, Corelia, the usual struggle to assert himself over his new team with the oversee Corax leaping on every chance to undermine him, and a mystery in the disappearance of the previous Aquarius, Exomnius.<BR>After explaining to the historical Pliny the Elder his beliefs, Marius sails at all speed to Pompeii to locate the fault in the Augusta and gets tied up in Ampliatus' obseqiuous and mendacious generosity whilst searching out the truth behind Exomnius' disappearance. This we eventually discover and a disappointing  sense of anti-climax arrives when we discover how and why he has disappeared. Corelia runs away to tell Marius that her father wants him dead, leading to the inevitable showdown with Corax. So, after two thirds of the novel, we come to the eruption where Harris focuses on fictionalising the Younger Pliny's letters, following Pliny as he tries to save the people fleeing Herculaneum and Pompeii, eventually dying on the beach at Stabiae and then follows Marius' herculean efforts as he races to Pompeii to save Corelia which he does in neat fashion using the Aqua Augusta as a means of escaping.<BR>I just felt that Harris' was more concerned with writing about the technical aspects of ancient engineering and vulcanology than giving due attention to character empathy. Given everyone knows the main plot then the focus (and thereby the interest) had to be on the sub plots which are a tad cliched and weak. It is particularly emphasized at the very end when the eruption ends and so doesthe book, somewhat abruptly. <BR>So, extremely well written, historically and scientifically accurate, the characterisations are very good and precise, but....whilst what we are given character-wise is good, it is not enough and results in a lack of empathy from the reader. For any fan of Roman historical fiction this is worth reading as the quality of the author shines through and the narrative style is very different to the usual offerings...it is just that, by the end, it could have been a McCullough...but didn't aspire to those dizzy heights.	2003-11-17
US	50323648	R2T521VUO3XLRP	0385506686	290935571	Utopia: A Thriller	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast paced rollercoaster of a read	Lincoln Child's solo effort is a roaring virtual rollercoaster ride that offers thrills and spills of the literal and imaginative kind. From the opening crash on the Notting Hill to the explosive armoured car finale Utopia offers the kind of fast, exciting read that makes it perfect for that train or plane journey. Hard to put down, hard to  not enjoy.<BR>The premise is simple, a vastly futuristic theme park in the Nevada desert starts to experience what seems to be phantom failures but turns out to be humanly created as the entire park is held hostage whilst the unknowing public enjoy their day out. So, we join Utopia's metanet creator, Warne and his daughter Georgia as they are brought in to offline his lifetime work by the Utopia management team, headed by Warne's old flame, Sarah Boatwright who is now with the Chief Systems Officer, the Shakespeare-quoting Barksdale. Rather than offlining the system, Warne and the sole Robotics engineer, Terri, decide to investigate what's going on and are quickly brought into the confidences of Sarah who explains that a mysterious John Doe is terrorising the park with a small team. Each world experiences an act of sabotage and pick ups go awry. Inevitably, the casualty count grows and we learn of a senior placed operative who has dreamt up the entire plan but it has been hijacked by John Doe. A too late stab at conscience has a soliloquy from the instigator of the entire plan, but by then chaos has set in and the dome is set to explode leading to our climatic showdown. Throughout our mild-mannered professor becomes a hero to all as he races through the park to avert disaster with Terri and the military-trained Poole, who just happens to want to help.<BR>Admittedly, Lincoln Child's first solo effort has a plot that is cliche-ridden and it is written as a screen play, though it would take a blockbuster film to do it justice visually. The premise, as the Amazon comments on the jacket proclaim, is pure `Die Hard in a theme park' and for all John Doe's crowing about the genius of his plan, the reader can spot who and what and when well ahead of the actual events. Nevertheless, if you want a fast paced action novel that is truly twenty-first century reality then Utopia's for you. Hopefully, Child will produce more.	2003-11-14
US	50323648	R2ALMFJ1KKVNLR	0060530499	675859556	Heretic (The Grail Quest, Book 3)	Books	4	38	43	N	N	Good, but not as good as the first two	The concluding part of Cornwell's trilogy, Heretic, promised to provide a fabulously roaring end to the tale of Thomas Hookton, English Archer during the early years of the Hundred Years War. But, unfortunately, it went out with a tired whimper rather than the exciting bangs of the previous two novels.<BR>It opens with Thomas' rescue of the overly adventurous Earl of Northampton at a skirmish at Calais and his subsequent orders to go to Astarac and locate the Grail, ensuring his cousin, Guy de Vexille, is aware of his presence.<BR>So, Thomas takes his new band of archers south and captures the Castillon D'Arbizon in a nighttime raid and manages to avert the superstitious and fear induced heretical burning of the Church-condemned beghard, Genevieve, who is, luckily for Thomas, also very beautiful (inducing a fit of jealousy in the ever present Robbie). Meanwhile, the evil Dominician is back, this time in the guise of Louis Bessieres, Cardinal Archbishop of Livorno, with his brother, Charles and they are seeking, in a tower at Soissons, to create an artificial Grail. This they achieve and Thomas and Genevieve are evicted from D'Arbizon by a group of his own men, led by Robbie who's unrequited lust for Genevieve allows his religious fervour to flourish. Thomas is subsequently excommunicated, takes up with a band of corredors led by Phildin, and spends much of the time moving through the Berat countryside before returning to D'Arbizon.<BR>Meanwhile, the Count of Berat is murderd by his nephew, Joscelyn, who turns out to be another Jekyll. Joscelyn promptly takes his cannon to D'Arbizon, aided by Charles Bessiers and Guy Vexille to both remove the English garrison under Sir Guillaume and capture the grail. As Thomas reenters D'Arbizon, killing Bessiere's on the way, they discover the false grail and destroy it before most of the protagnists die either from the ensuing battles or the Plague which has arrived in France. We also finally get to see Thomas, archer, in a finalduel with his cousin, Guy, swordsman, with the inevitable result. At the end Thomas and his Genevieve ride into the English sunset, with Robbie reconciled to them and they locate the true Grail.<BR>All in all, a good final part to the trilogy with the exception that Cornwell has taken the safe option that most modern Grail stories follow. In true Indiana Jones style, the baddies fall for the fabulously wealthy cup whilst the hero realises that it the Grail is liable to be a simply crafted vessel and then it ends up being removed for all time so that evil men can't kill more for it. A tad cliched and hence the earlier statement that it ends with a whimper.<BR>Nevertheless, Harlequin and Vagabond provide an excellent foray into the Hundred Years War and Thomas of Hookton is a character well worth following and if Cornwell were to write more of him I'd eagerly wait for it to hit the shelves.	2003-11-10
US	50323648	RPAO7XVLJ5PXG	0316860115	744145585	A Killer in Winter (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A marvellous winter's mayhem	The excellent pseudonymal Susanna Gregory returns with her ninth installment of the Matthew Bartholomew chronicles and doesn't disappoint. From the prologue where the messenger Josse's accidental death turns out to be a boon for someone and the death of Norbert, laconic brother of the now retired Sheriff of Cambridge's, Richard Tulet, Gregory settles into her latest mystery with effortless ease, instantly creating a a tuly piscine tale with both plot and scene with that easy familiarity that is her hallmark.<BR>We plunge into a humorous opening with Michael's ridiculous attempts to spy on a Cambridge newcomer, Harysone, based on personal dislike and demanding Matthew declare the man's insanity without actually meeting him before swiftly finding another corpse in Michaelhouse's church. The anticipation of the coming Christmas means that Michael is forced to choose which murder to investigate first and Bartholomew's life is complicated by the return of his once-betrothed - Phillipa Abigny.<BR>Phillipa is drastically changed from the woman who left him to marry the fishmonger and Mayor of London-desiree, Turke and both she and her brother, Giles Abigny arrive to stay at Edith and Stanmore's house.<BR>Murder and mayhem swiftly follow as Christmas sets in, Michaelhouse electing Deynham its twelve day Lord of Misrule. Unlike in Gregory's previous offering up at Ely, the murdered body count is low this time (though the eventual tally is high after it turns out everyone was culpable to some degree and ends up dying to tie up all the loose ends). There is Norbert, the dead `beggar' in St Michael's is discovered to be Gosslinge, Turke's servant and Turke himself dies suspiciously after literally skating on thin ice. Gregory kills off the old rivermen from preceding novels, Aethelbad and Dunstan as the harsh winter takes its toll (there's more snow that Cambridge has ever seen since!) and we unravel more of the shadowy political dealings that weave through Cambridge.<BR>Amongst it all runs the mysterious Dympna, a charitable organisation that ends up having a sideline, the Chepe Waits (comprising Frith, Makejoy, Jestyn and Dyna) a travelling band of thieving jugglers, the newly arrived and dislikeable Quenhyth, Sheriff Morice's corruption and a game of camp ball (ancient football). Ovying hostel gets a thorough runout with its head, Ailred. All of which has both Matthew and Michael scratching their heads at all the clues but unable to make sense of the sequence of events. The key to it all, in a delightful piece of murder mystery irony, is the Fraternity of fishmen and the protagonists relationships to each other.<BR>So, by the time Matthew ends up in a barn having a particularly nasty hayfork jabbed at him during his attempt to free both Michael and Kenyngham we have had a double denouement, the lengthy first answering most of the questions but not all, the second culminating in the fight and the final two culprits racing off with the charitable gold and falling into the icy river. At the end the body count is high (though most of them are a grim justice), Matthew's relationship with Phillipa is resolved (we get the hint somewhat to Mathilde's relief) and the twelve day debacle provides levity throughout.<BR>Right now, there is no better historical murder writer out there. Gregory's style, prose, plot and descriptive writing makes fourteenth century Cambridge immensely plausible, her characters are well crafted and empathic and, above all, the reader is left craving more. A truly fishy tale has been created here and Gregory has done nothing to make her audience even want her to lay down her pen. An author at the height of her literary powers.	2003-11-03
US	50323648	R30WAM1FQE131F	081257558X	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	4	13	19	N	N	A great Winter's read	Robert Jordan's ninth instalment of the Wheel of Time series is a delight to read. Having taken the decision to not read this until the Crossroads of Twilight came out to provide immediate continuity I was instantly reminded (after such a long time away from the books) of the easy familiarity that Jordan provides. Whilst some epic fantasy authors suffer from a sense of vagueness about people and events after the long periods between instalments, not so Jordan.<BR>And so, we find ourselves, in the Winter's Heart, opening with the first ta'varen, Perrin, as he slogs through the snow on his mission to bring the fanatical Masema to Rand and is subsequently diverted south to chase the Shaido sept who have kidnapped Faile, making her gai'shan. We then race across to Caemlyn where Elayne has entered the city as the Daughter-Heir laying her claim to the throne of Andor (backed by Rand) but finding her position precarious and having to survive assassination attempts. In the process Rand turns up and bonds with both her, Min and Aviendha whilst Nynaeve looks on. What Rand has come to do is take Nynaeve and two ter'angreal in order to use the greatest sa-angreal made for both men and women in his attempt to cleanse Saidin of the Dark Lord's taint.<BR>We visit the ageless Cadsuane before the two main themes of the ninth installment take over. We are introduced to the child-like Seanchan, Tuon, Daughter of the Nine Moons, who arrives in the captured city of Ebou'Dar where Mat is residing under the silken bedchamber chains of Queen Tylin, whilst trying to avoid the gholam who is trying to kill him. Mat spends much of his time plotting to escape Tylin and worrying about the dice that keep rolling when ever he sees Tuon. Eventually, he manages to orchestrate an escape taking with him two Aes Sedai damane and sul-damane amongst others. Meanwhile across the world in Far Madding where the source is untouchable, Rand finds himself hunting down renegade Ashamen before both he and Lan end up barely escaping after encountering Padan Fain. After Cadsuane arrives in the city to assist him the group Travel to Shadar Logoth where he and Nynaeve link to the two sa-angreal to cleanse Saidin of the Dark Lord's taint. Inevitably the epic nature of the magic unleashed draws the Forsaken who end up in private battles with the Cadsuane led Aes Sedai who are protecting Rand but, by the very end as he lies unconscious the awe-struck Ashamen with them realise the taint is gone.<BR>Threaded throughout are the politics and subserviency-based matriarchal society with its WinderFinders, Aes Sedai, Wise Women, Kin et al who struggle to retain ascendancy in a World turned upside down by the Dragon Reborn. Most of the recent books in the series are given over to lengthy social dictates and the sundering of those dictates as an equality is sought and armies converge. Another enthralling episode by Jordan.<BR>What places Jordan amongst the upper tier of fantasy writers (though none of them have the ability, so far, to alter the very nature of their prose style through a book as Tolkien did) is that many fantasy readers put down the final instalment of any great series wishing it never ended. <BR>It looks like Jordan's finally giving the genre's fans precisely that and whilst everyone wants to race towards the climatic denouement you realise that by delaying it, Jordan is keeping the magic of the Wheel of time alive.	2003-10-27
US	50323648	R1IXXEGLPSD328	073820692X	305073177	The Man Who Found Time: James Hutton And The Discovery Of Earth's Antiquity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A necessary biography	Repcheck's biography of James Hutton (the father of geology) is a well presented insight not only into the character and mindset of a man who provided the ultimate steps to establishing the Earth's true age in the face of religious doctrine, but also provides a fascinating general history of the time before and during the Scottish Enlightenment.<BR>It is the latter that allows Repcheck to give substance to what would otherwise become an essay for two thirds of the book barely deals with Hutton, more with the history of various personages at the time. As such, under the guise of dealing with Hutton's youth it becomes apparent that this author has little source material so we are treated to a lengthy chapter on the Jacobite uprising and the battle of Culloden. None of which Hutton appears to have actively participated in. Still, it is presented in an interesting manner. <BR>To begin we are given a somewhat nostalgic and romantic scene of an aging man finally proving his theories off Scotland's windswept coasts (the kind of thing that might open a tv documentary) and we then move swiftly into a commentary on previous scientific thinkers such as Luther, Gallileo et al and how they tentatively challenged Christian representation of the earth's origins to fit in with doctrinal requirements. We are also given details on how early Church thinkers kept altering the date of the world's creation to ensure that foretold events were always pushed back as the apocalyptic event approached. An opening page on the uniqueness of Castle rock's composition allow Repcheck to give us an early history of Edinburgh. Then we move into a seventy page history lesson on the early eighteenth century (roughly 1715 - 45) focusing on Bonnie Prince Charlie that just keeps on the titular track by telling us where Hutton was at each point as he studied to be a lawyer, then a doctor before, come 1745, settling onto a farm at Slighhouses where his management led to his fascination with soil and erosion.<BR>The second half of the book devotes itself entirely to following the greatest thinkers of the Enlightenment - Watts, Black, Hume, Hutton and Smith (plus several others) and how they formed their own `Inklings' that met discussed and formed a scientific clique in Edinburgh. As a result we then move rapidly on through his years spent study rock strata, his formulation of geothermal science to explain the cyclic nature of an ancient Earth, contradicting opponents like Werner who espoused the universal ocean theory. Eventually Hutton delivered his two lecture, 500 single print texts and promptly was the focus of both support and attack from those who say his statement that placed the earth as extremely ancient. The argument raged well beyond his death until eventually people like Lyle and Darwin saw the inevitability of fact and serious attempts began at dating the earth (eventually via isotopic decay in the 1950s).<BR>If you had only read half this book you might be forgiven for thinking it had very little to do with Hutton and admittedly in the first part this is one of those books where the content tends to wander off the subject matter but it is done in a manner that the extra information about the period is fascinating in itself. However, come the latter stages, Hutton's presentation of his theories is placed within the intellectual context of the age, stressing its importance to the scientific community as a whole and permitting further  achievements. What this book attempts to do with some success is give the modern reader an elegy to the Father of Geology from who simple observations contradicted the human view in an altogether Galilean way.	2003-10-21
US	50323648	RZ1OO51EA60P0	0747269009	902829441	The Legatus Mystery	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Libertus flounders	Rowe's latest Libertus offering - `The Legatus Mystery'-  proves the weakest to date. I'm not sure why but the entire effort is somewhat muddied, probably because Rowe allows Libertus to lose the normally cool-headed thought process and end up supernaturally confused and fleeing for his life from an misguided Glevum mob who believe that he's brought the wrath of the Gods down on them. All of which throws us out of kilter and turns him nearly into an emotional wreck. Very un-Libertus-like.<BR>This fifth installment has our sleuth returning from London with his `wife' Gwellia, to be ordered to uncover the amazing case of the vanishing corpse from the inner sanctum of the temple as found by its sub-sevir, Meritus. Several others are in the frame, includng the Pontifex, Scribonius, Optimus, a lisping slave named somewhat unkindly by Libertus and Junio as Lithputh (though it does serve its own misleading purpose eventually), Hirsus and Trinculus. However, the plot takes more a case of discovering who the original body was - presumably an unknown missing legate, judging by the recovered ring - rather than concluding there actually was a murder and who the suspects were - and therein lies the key to the entire mystery.<BR>So, we actually get to see Libertus laying a mosaic, tentatively drag the usual adulterous  Roman matron in to the script, have some further insights as to Libertus' new and changing relationships with both Gwellia and Junio, profess our usual irritation with Marcus who is becoming excellent at jumping to ridiculous conclusions whilst being prickly about insinuations of his stupidity by his client and stomp around a poorly portrayed temple before ucocvering the true murder and figuring out whodunnit.<BR>What Rowe is extremely good at it sending the reader down a completely blind alley. When the deouement reveals the culprit(s) you instantly see where the obvious clues were, but she has ingeniously hidden them in plain sight - always the mark of a good murder mystery author. However, as I stated at the very first, this is the weakest to date and I confess I put it aside several times to read other novels  before finally finishing. I assume it's merely a blip as every Roman sleuth has an off day, and that the next installment will be back to the promise offered in the first four.	2003-10-06
US	50323648	R71YQIB7032AL	0786711930	117608471	Isabella and the Strange Death of Edward II	Books	3	19	23	N	N	A good general starter that'll whet the appetite	With an opening prologue espousing the imperial aims of Edwards 1st and focusing on the height of the English mediaeval period of the fourteenth century, Doherty focuses on London's expansion to become a true European capital and how Edward's dreams were thwarted by the Scots. Into the mix came the marriage of his son, the future Edward II and Isabella, the daughter of Philip IV of France<br />The first half of the book details the history of the couple right up until Edward's somewhat painful death (as reported by Swynbroke) whilst incarcerated at Berkeley. Opening with the political dynastical struggle between Edward and Philip to create future power for their respective countries the two were betrothed in 1299 with what could be seen at the time as a heavily bound contract promising all kinds of dire retribution if any party should renege on the deal. We move swiftly through the sudden death of Edward I in 1307, having some detail on the relationship between the King and the to-be Edward II, Doherty heavily emphasizing Edwards fiercely emotive personality traits. If a fiend you were a friend for life, if an enemy, he never got. This is a trait that is prevalent through Edward II's life and heavily affected his decision making. Two figures leap out as having lived and fallen with him. Firstly, Gaveston who was ultimately elevated to Earl of Cornwall and given such a place of prominence that the nuptials of Edward and Isabella were portrayed in a rather insulting manner to the French nobility. However, given Isabella's age at the time this does not seem to have been too problematic. After Gaveston's exile in 1308 and subsequent `execution' following an English noble revolt headed by Lancaster, Isabella rose in prominence and indeed fortified several treaties between Edward and Philip, whilst Edward eventually rounded on Lancaster and the remaining rebellious lords and had them effectively proscribed. Post-battle of Bannockburn where the Scots crushed the English in 1314 Edward became increasingly emotive in his rulings and Isabella found herself the subject of many plots. It is at this time Hugh de Spencer (or Dispenser as there seems to be some conflict of his name) the Younger rose to favourite under Edward, again to the same degree as Gaveston but this man appears to have been far more brutal. Indeed Doherty tries to suggest that Isabella's ultimate separation and rebellion against Edward in 1326 was due to the suggestion that there ultimately be an `open' relationship amongst the three of them. This in turn, `justifies' Isabella's adultery with Roger Mortimer during he initial self-exile in France and subsequent dealings in England when she returned to invade and execute de Spencer and capture Edward, forcing the coronation of their son, Edward III.<br />The second half of the book deals with the uncertainty surrounding Edward's death during incarceration, firstly placing his movements during those last few months then his subsequent burial away from Westminster as a `deposed prince'. Doherty gives time to discussing the movements of the body (it took several months to carry out the funeral due mainly to the military expedition in Scotland) before detailing the funeral of Dec 20 1327. After the internment Isabella seems to have forgotten her dead husband, moving swiftly to arrange the marriage of her son and Phillipa of Hainhault. Unfortunately, Isabella appears to have succumbed (with Mortimer) to excessive rapacity and governmental monopolisation resulting in Lancaster plotting rebellion and eventually falling out with her son, Edward III. After Edmund, Earl of Kent's admission that Edward II was not dead but imprisoned at Corfe Castle and there was a plot to free him - in itself a ludicrous turn of events - led to many arrests and death for treason. Nevertheless, by the fall of 1330, Isabella was in exile and Mortimer executed as all they had done was replace Edward's tyranny with their own. It was now the young EdwardIII decided to act in conjunction with Pope John XXII. Edward's close friend Montague managed to get Mortimer to declare that his word was above the King's and promptly pulled off a coup, imprisoning Mortimer then securing his execution. At the trial of Berkeley we learn that Thomas Gurney, William Ockle and Maltravers were identified as the regicides. All bar Gurney were eventually pardoned, he dying whilst under arrest. Isabella escaped and henceforth no reference was made to her being involved in any of the crimes committed. Doherty skips through the remaining 28 years of her life, noting her piety and charitable goodwill.<br />Come Chapter 7 the main protagonists are dead and hence Doherty's historical recreation ends. He spends the remaining 60 pages discussing the true events surrounding Edward II's death. He focuses on a letter from the papal notary Fieschi (dated by modern historians to around 1337) who claims to have met Edward II, detailing his life on the run until he ends up at a monastery near Milan. Going through the letter section by section, Doherty firstly seems to pass the letter off as fabrication then comes a more neutral stance is saying that he fundamentally believes that Edward II didn't die, but that Fieschi got his information second hand rather than in a direct interview.<br />Doherty's account of Isabella and Edward II and III is a good starting point for anyone wishing to gain an instant understanding of the history of England during the early fourteenth century. Immediately accessible to the general reader, it is useful for the pre-university student or for those wishing some standard reading of the subject though it should be noted the quality is nowhere near university standard. For more detailed analysis of the time and the personages involved there are better books out there, but this is not intended to be overly critical. It is a good general overview of the history with some `suggestive' theories that aren't really expanded on, that can leave the reader with questions  to which the answers need to be sought elsewhere.decided to act in conjunction with Pope John XXII. Edward's close friend Montague managed to get Mortimer to declare that his word was above the King's and promptly pulled off a coup, imprisoning Mortimer then securing his execution. At the trial of Berkeley we learn that Thomas Gurney, William Ockle and Maltravers were identified as the regicides. All bar Gurney were eventually pardoned, he dying whilst under arrest. Isabella escaped and henceforth no reference was made to her being involved in any of the crimes committed. Doherty skips through the remaining 28 years of her life, noting her piety and charitable goodwill.<BR>Come Chapter 7 the main protagonists are dead and hence Doherty's historical recreation ends. He spends the remaining 60 pages discussing the true events surrounding Edward II's death. He focuses on a letter from the papal notary Fieschi (dated by modern historians to around 1337) who claims to have met Edward II, detailing his life on the run until he ends up at a monastery near Milan. Going through the letter section by section, Doherty firstly seems to pass the letter off as fabrication then comes a more neutral stance is saying that he fundamentally believes that Edward II didn't die, but that Fieschi got his information second hand rather than in a direct interview.<BR>Doherty's account of Isabella and Edward II and III is a good starting point for anyone wishing to gain an instant understanding of the history of England during the early fourteenth century. Immediately accessible to the general reader, it is useful for the pre-university student or for those wishing some standard reading of the subject though it should be noted the quality is nowhere near university standard. For more detailed analysis of the time and the personages involved there are better books out there, but this is not intended to be overly critical. It is a good general overview of the history with some `suggestive' theories that aren't really expanded on, that can leave the reader with questions  to which the answers need to be sought elsewhere.	2003-09-29
US	50323648	R2844Y0SJL7FG9	0747261024	399727613	A Pattern of Blood (Libertus Mystery Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A promising pattern	Rowe's second Libertus offering - `A Pattern of Blood', has our erstwhile sleuth hotfooting it to Corfinium, with Junio in tow, to the townhouse of the decurion, Quintus Ulfinus to investigate the latter's stabbing after the races, a few days earlier. It just so happened that Libertus was present during the attack having visted Corfinium to investigate the whereabouts of his missing wife, Gwellia.<BR>Just after he turns up with his patron, Marcus Septimus, Quintus is murdered as he lies recuperating. The suspects are immediately limited to his playboy son, Maximillius, his wife, Julia, her ex-husband, Flavius, the aging Lupus, and the medicus, Sollers. Mingled in are the household slaves, Rollo being the most prominent, particularly as he ends up in the latrines the next morning as the second murder.<BR>What Libertus suffers from here (and notes several times in hindsight as he relates the tale) is that he allows personal emotions to lead to poor character judgement which, in turn, clouds him to the blatant facts that are under his nose. A case of not wanting certain people to end up being the culprit(s). It effectively humanises him and we begin to see the flawed human beneath the brilliant mind.<BR>Each of the suspects has good motive and each has good reason to attempt to implicate most of the others as it becomes evident that the murder is part of a power struggle to obtain Quintus' estate.<BR>Blood is very important to this murder mystery, notably where it is present and on whom. Once Lupus is incarcerated in the `attic' and Mutuus (having been freed in the reading of Quintus' will just after Libertus discovers the culprit behind the original stabbing and the subsequent blackmailing) has further denounced his  adopted father (Lupus) we have a lengthy denouement as Libertus grills Julia (who is not quite as angelic as the Libertus would have us believe and Sollers in Marcus' presence. We then move very quickly to find the ambiguous soothsayer in the town whose predictions ultimately come true, though not in the manner our protagonists first assumed they would. Finally we end up with the uncovering of the culprit(s) and Libertus' lengthy explanations to his patron as to where the clues lay. As with the previous novel the clues are there in the text from the beginning (unlike many other authors who introduce essential facts as we go along) so whilst suspicions are confirmed, the reasoning is a delight to uncover.<BR>The continuing growth of the main characters has added more flesh to the bones given in `The Germanicus Mosaic'. Libertus and Junio are an excellent team, though Marcus is protrayed as an impulsive intellectual buffoon as times. It is hard to see what he brings to the show, other than as a well-placed man to get things actioned for Libertus when he cannot himself. The supporting characters are excellently drawn, their interplay a delight to watch as Libertus teases out the true facts of their relationships..<BR>Overall it is an improvement on the first offering and makes me reach eagerly for the third - Murder in the Forum.	2003-09-23
US	50323648	R14FN52SD9GWI5	0802714056	111515923	The Secret Voyage of Sir Francis Drake: 1577-1580	Books	5	39	41	N	N	A necessary telling	Samuel Bawlf's account of the secret voyage Sir Francis Drake undertook from 1577 in order to (dis)prove the theoretical Strait of Anian (as predicted by the Flemish geographer, Abraham Ortelius) that provided a northern passage linking the Atlantic and Pacific oceans is a remarkable account of exploration by one of England's most revered heroes. By piecing together cryptic notes in maps that Drake later gave to his friends after Crown refusal to publish the true account of the voyage of the Golden Hinde, Bawlf presents a more enlightening read of a voyage that has had the official cloak of secrecy about it for the past five centuries.<BR>The author's four part book opens with Drake's privateering in the Carribean at the hands of John Hawkins and his saving of the Judith after the English fleet destruction at San Juan de Ulua.  After necessarily giving a brief political sketch of the European powers at the time, Bawlf plunges into Drake's Private War on the Spanish from 1569 to primarily on the Isthmus of Panama, plundering Spanish-looted South American gold. Focusing on his attempts to gain the gold and gems bound for Nombre de Dios we are drawn into a compelling story of one wasted ambush after another until he finally attained success with the aid of the Frnech captain Le Testu and the cimarrones. After the ordered cessation of his privateering he turned his aims towards ther Southern Sea and a passage to Cathay and we learn muh of the politics surrounding Frobisher's claim a strait did exist to Cathay, Walsingham, John Dee and the effort to get an expedition together....to eventually be headed by Francis Drake.<BR>Part II deals with his circumnavigation around the globe as per the official reports of the time. Sailing down South America's Eastern coastline he navigated the treacherous waters of Magellan's straits, discovered that Terra del Fuego is actually a very large island and displayed those almost hollywood-esque tendencies of being a gentleman cosair buthis dealings with the traitorous John Doughty showed a man of steel. Once in the Pacific he became the scourge of the Spanish, eventually returning with huge amounts of plunder.  It ends with reference to the inordinate amount of time it took him to sails through the Indonesian archipelago (6 months)<BR>Part III deals with his later life, returning constantly to the theme that the details of his voyage were deliberately obscured by the Elizabthan government, pointing to various maps by the great cartographers of the time that show no landmass indications above 50 degrees latitude were permitted. We touch on his famous raid on Cadiz, his destruction of the Spanish Armada, the questioning of his achievements by Cavendish, and his subsequent death from dysentry in the Carribean. Bawlf touches on accounts of his voyage after his death, particularly on resumption of hostilities with Spain during 1625 and how his journey passed into popular myth. Further attempts to prove the existence of the Anian Strait are catlogued, from Perez's attempt of 1774, the Russian fur trade, Captain James Cook in 1778, Dixon's attempt of 1786, and Vancouver's of 1792 which finally concluded the only seaway was the Bering Strait tween the Pacific and the Artic.<BR>Part IV returns to give a true account of the months April to September 1579 where a collation of the evidence (oral, documented and physical evidence) strongly suggests that Drake sailed up the American west coast and located Vancouver island (he named it Nova Albion) going so far as to site a possible colony at the Bay of Small Ships. Much detail is given over to plotting the exact course and whilst theoretical the deductive scholarship is extremely plausible.<BR>Bawlf's book is immensely enjoyable and informative, not only dealing with the particulars of the official and actual events of Drake's voyage but supplying it in a global manner that explains much of Europe's interference in the New World and the commencement of the Great Age of Discovery. We follow a man, who became the greatest navigator of his time in both his country's and his enemies' eyes for whom his voyage to discover a northwest passage in order to further England's colonial hopes actually served to establish England's mastery of the Seas and commence what became a gradual march towards Empire. For the general reader this book is extremely accessible and is magisterial in its command of the subject matter. Never degrading into dry scholarship what Bawlf has managed to do is restore the glory that Drake deserved and reveal the truth behind his search beyond the 50 degree latitude.	2003-09-23
US	50323648	R1MQ04OZGOV28G	0747270996	420140776	The Chariots of Calyx (A Libertus Mystery of Roman Britain)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A speedy affair	Rowe's fourth Libertus offering - `The Chariots of Calyx' -  rids us Marcus Aurelius Septimus as Libertus joins governor Pertinax in Londinium as he prepares to embark on his tour of Britannia (first stop Ebroarcum - which is meant as kindly gesture to Libertus, though he now knows Gwellia is not there - but you cannot refuse a governor!). Before it can go ahead, the frumentarius (corn officer) Caius Monnius is found strangled to death with a slave and his new wife, Fulvia suffered a slash to her arm when she was attacked. Pertinax asks Libertus to investigate in case the murder is political and he reluctantly goes to the house to discover a range of colourful characters, most prominent being Annia, the deceased's mother who lives in an annexe and currently houses Monnius' ex-wife Lydia and their son, Filius.<BR>The domineering and opinionated Annia is at loggerheads with Fulvia, the young beautiful new wife (incidentally having an affair with the Blues racing charioteer favourite, Fortunatus) and firmly believes the charioteer committed the deed. Into the mix comes the Celt Eppaticus (Rowe has a tendency to display them all as huge red haired barbarians in her novels) whose forced entry to the house demanding a return of some 5000 denarii and subsequent fleeing raises all kinds of questions.<BR>All of which sets up Libertus and his ever faithful sidekick, Junio, to take a trip to Verulamium to track down Fortunatus and for Rowe to exercise her `Ben Hur' literary reconstruction, which, incidentally, is not badly done at all. What they find is that the charioteer took a dive to ensure race fixing could be done and was, in fact, present in the capital the night of the murder. Returning to Londinium, Libertus finds himself subjected to a brutal torture after foolishly allowing himself to be taken captive when sniffing around the granary warehouses and Fortunatus'  unfinished home by the Blue's leader, Glaucus. It is only his increasing reputation and perceived respectfor him by the Roman infrastructure that ensures he is found before he is murdered. However, the palace slave, Superbus, whom Libertus had instructed to do some spying, is found dead. What turns the tide is when Fulvia is found stabbed to death inside her locked room and Libertus pulls all the characters together (having had Pertinax arrest and deliver both Eppicatus and Fortunatus to the house) for his denouement where the characters manage to provide the rest of the necessary information under the threat of torture. As a result the culprits are uncovered, a political scandal is prevented, and racing corruption uncovered, much to Glaucus' detriment after the legions catch up with him.<BR>Rowe's latest is a marvellous effort, combining wit, pace, intrigue and remarkable thought processes from our sleuth. We are now comfortable with Commudus' Britannic world and the deft obsequiousness that pervades daily life. The characters are comfortable, the assorted episodic cast a delightful jumble all adding to the intrigue and we end with a scene of true emotion as Libertus reaps the reward for all he has done so far. I look forward to the next installment, The Legatus Mystery.	2003-09-17
US	50323648	R1IYRALTXJQFFF	0747261032	505827067	Murder in the Forum (Libertus Mystery Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A veritable delight	Rowe's third Libertus offering - `Murder in the Forum', is a splendidly crafted effort. We are plunged immediately into a difficult situation for Libertus as he is confronted by an overly obnoxious and well connected imperial representative, Lucius Tigidius Perennis Felix, who has swept into Glevum with the apparent intent to marry his plain daughter Phyllidia to Marcus Aurelius Septimus, Libertus' patron. Unfortunately, continuing straight from the previous novel, Marcus is happily living with Julia Delicta (the ex-wife of the murderd Corfinium decurion, Quintus) several hours away and Libertus is forced to race to `fetch' him with Felix's imperious guard and hinted lover, Zetso. Realising the real reason for Felix's visit, Marcus hastily married Julia before speeding back to the civic banquet thrown (under some duress) for Felix at the house of the dog-loving Gaius Flavius Flaminius.<BR>Having thoroughly set up Felix as a universally hated man (in no means by his brutal murder of Marcus' envoy) it comes as no surprise we watch dispassionately as he seemingly chokes to death on a nut halfway through the banquet. Immediately Libertus suspects the redhaired Celt masquerading as a noble, Egobarbus, and Zetso, both of whom have gone missing. The suspect hasty departure of Octavius (later found to be the beau of Phyllidia) also has Libertus chasing shadows until he located one of Gaius' dogs dead of poisoning. There is a moment of splendid parody as Gaius commissions Libertus to construct a mosaic for him dedicated to the fallen canine.<BR>So, Libertus ends up being robbed, we have to deal with 3 suspicious almond smelling phials of poison, Octavius' `confession', and Felix's mysterious dealings with the red haired Celts before we move towards the denoument. There is a neat scene where Libertus has to represent Marcus at the funeral rites to his herald (an action which gives us the methods by which the Celts escaped the city after the murder)<BR>A quick scamper north toa mansio reveals the true state of Egobarbus and Libertus is able to track down Zetso which with much impunity that results in him questioning an imperial seal and being thrown into prison for his troubles, allows him to garner more half truths. As Rowe neatly uses the trick of one character giving further incriminating answers to questions that he is misunderstanding, it means Libertus is able to uncover a far greater conspiracy. It all ends with Libertus up on charges of treason  in front of Pertinax with Zetso. The latter panics, reveals all whilst still under the misapprehension that everyone else knows about the greater conspiracy and thus permits Libertus to escape his crime on the basis of saving the emperor.<BR>Rowe's third installment is excellent. Her writing style has progressed enormously since the first book and the adventures of Libertus and Junio are a delighful addition to the Roman murder mystery genre. Well worth reading....	2003-09-15
US	50323648	R9HUL92O8LKMM	0747261016	560877484	The Germanicus Mosaic (Libertus Mystery Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good beginning	Rosemary's Rowe's Libertus mystery opener is a neatly styled murder mystery. `The Germanicus Mosaic' centres around the murder of the ex-centurion Crassus Germanicus who is found under his hypocaust at his villa after a procession at Gleva and the disappearance of his personal slave, part time impersonator, Daedulus. Germanicus is an altogether unsavoury character who delighted in tormenting people (such as beating his barber slave, Paulus, for nicking him during shaving, forcing the tenured slave musician Rufus to both watch and listen as he abused Rufus' slave love and constantly fining the head slave, Andrethus)<BR>We meet many other assorted characters:the gatekeeper Aulus (an apparently inept informer for Septimus), Germanicus'  brother, the newly christian Lucius and hear about his  ex-wife, Regina, amongst others.<BR>All in all we end up with many people at the villa with a motive to murder the man but lacking opportunity. Into the mix steps Longinus Flavius Libertus, a self-deprecating sleuth, ex-Celt who was taken into slavery, then later manumitted and now works as a `pavement' specialist (had to wince at that as he is really a mosaicist) under the patronage of the senatorial class Marcus Septimus, client of the governor Pertinax. With Libertus is his slave, Junio, and the pair of them set about unravelling the complexities behind the motive in true Holmesque manner - with a fine eye for detail. With Marcus' constant hasty desire to approportion blame at the first sniff of a linked motive and suspect it falls to Libertus to remove the web that implicates other innocent parties and discover all of the events leading up to the night in question. As he succinctly puts it `one murder leads to another' as we discover that Regina was also murdered and buried under the very librarium mosaic that Libertus had lain some weeks earlier. So, by the time we figure out the truth we are running fult tilt to catch up with the culprit(s) before another innocent dies and Libertus manages to get the protagonist(s) to ingest the poison meant for him. Poison is a common theme throughout.<BR>As a first offering, Rowe has not done too badly. Admittedly, the plot moves along simply,  but the characterisation and sleuthing is excellent. Libertus is constantly under pressure to discern reality and lies lest innocent parties take the blame so the novel is almost screenplay in its delivery. Nevertheless, the promise is there and I have no doubt as Libertus' continues to sleuth that these mysteries will become a delightful addition to the genre. If you're a fan of the genre, certainly worth delving into. It is only a pity I did not spot this novel when it came out four years ago.	2003-09-08
US	50323648	R3UL4UIKBILLOO	0684859076	302392775	How to Read and Why	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More a motivation for reading....	Most bibliophiles will pick up this exegesis from the renowned literary critic, Harold Bloom, simply on the inherent challenge in the title. For those of us who profess as much a desire and self-improving drive through the written word as Bloom does then this book will either confirm our own decisive belief in how to read and the reasons why we do it, or irritatingly deny and confound them. In some respects it can be seen as a marker, an attempt for the avid reader to classify how we should read the great texts and confirm to ourselves that `yes, we do understand them'. What Bloom, therefore, must hold himself up to, by publishing his theory, is whether his own form of literature accurately describes how the populace should read any great literary work. By the end I found it ended up with an answer to a rather different question.<BR>Without going through the entire text there are three sections that leap out: Short stories, Novels Part I and Poetry.<BR>Bloom opens his critical work with short story specialists. His own work reflects the genre, with short one-two pages discussions on each, their salient work(s) and the contribution to the art form. We move from Turganev and Chekov to Maupassant and Hemingway, touching through Nabokov, Borges and Calvino, all the while relating them back to Bloom's idolised literary figurehead, Shakespeare. Of particular interest is the note on Landolfi, highlighting as it does a great work, inspired by another great author, Gogol, that parodies its inspiration. Indeed, the entire concept of `Gogol's wife' takes the real and criticizes it with the absurd, yet an oddly perceptive absurd that echoes Ionesco.<BR>In Bloom's section on poetry he  is forced to follow the well-trodden path that any literary critic must do with this format: quote large tracts of various poems in order to get his meaning across, in sharp contrast to those sections ion the short story and novel. He does acknowledge this when he realises that each single word ina poem comprises far more imagery and emotion than is worth explaining or describing. Whereas the novel dictates the scene precisely, the poem offers a tantalisingly liminal nudge to the senses that the reader can allow to bloom in their own mind. As such, the section on poetry becomes more a classification of which of  the great poets are in each poetical sub-genre. More a reason on why to read these poets, than how to read them. The section itself deals with Dickinson, Coleridge, Blake, Browning, Shelley, Keats, Wordsworth and the inevitable Shakespearian sonnets, amongst many others. The most interesting detail is perhaps on the Ballard of Sir Patrick Spence with its  \\"tragic comedy almost unique in its stoic heroism\\", the most exhilarating the seventeenth century ballard, `Tom O'Bedlam'<BR>Bloom's section on the novels (in two parts) opens with Cervantes' `Don'Quixote' which he professes the greatest of all novels, swiftly moving onto the incomparable Austen who's novels rely so much on society but never a justification for them and Dickens, picking firstly, Emma, then Great Expectations as their benchmarks. There is an interesting comparison between the first and revised versions of James' `Portrait' which serves to emphasize the growth of the author's vast (as Bloom would have us believe) consciousness.<BR>So, by the end we don't feel that Bloom has given us satisfactory explanation of `how' to read and `why', more that his precis of what he considers the greatest of our literary artists suggests why we must read them specifically and (in an even more limited attempt) some pointers as to how to read them. For example, his explanation of Shakespearian vernacular does attempt to satisfy the `how to read' as it imparts different and more clear meaning to the poetry . By the end, we are left not with an answer to his titular concept, but a rather disparate reason for our `motives' to read, best given in his summation on poetry:<BR>\\"Poetry...does...startle us outof our sleep-of-death into a more capricious sense of life. There is no better motive for reading....\\"	2003-09-01
US	50323648	R1OWG0FI0303RN	0756401194	696418912	The Gathering Storm (Crown of Stars, Vol. 5)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Gathering pace	The fifth volume in the `Crown of Stars' saga, The Gathering storm, has been a long time coming (duly noted by the apologetic author) but the delay has been worth it. We find ourselves trailing two Eagles, Hanna and Hathui, the former riding to join Sanglant and Sapientia who have gone to Jinn trailing Bulkezu as their prisoner, the latter heading towards King Henry who has been possessed, the Skopos and the insidious Hugh. Amongst this the small fervent band of `heretics', numbering Sigfrid, Ivar and the beautiful Baldwin amongst them end up at the monastry where Alain is desperately attempting to forget who he is and seek peaceful obscurity.<BR>It is 733, Prince Bayan and Margrave Judith are dead, Prince Ekkhard has now married the new margrave and all of Novaria is under constant siege and assailment from all sides. King Henry steps ever closer towards becoming emperor, attempting to achieve the glory of Taillafer, but is becoming increasingly controlled, suspicious and removed frm his subjects as he seeks to unite Varre and Wendar. We focus on events are Ivar and company struggle to understand where they lost three years, watch as Hanna rescues Ivar's half-sister, Rosvita, and flees with Sister Obligatia away from Hugh.<BR>The bulk of the novel is given over to Sanglant's `taming' of the griffin, Bulkezu's death (surprisingly casually handled given the import ascribed to him early on), Liath's return and their subsequent use of the Crowns to race west to confront Anne who is using Henry's army to conquer all lands that possess what are in fact, henges in order to recreate the cataclysm and allow the Cursed Ones back into the world. Several sub-plots weave their separate paths: Alain and the Skrolin, Brother Zaccharias and his dicspla as a mathematica, Hanna and Sister Rosvita, the love triangle of Anna, Thiemo and Matto and many more besides, all the time shadowed by the revolutionary Eika, Stronghand who has conquered Alba and Presbyter Hugh whose insidious perfidy threatens far more than initially thought...<BR>The early focus leans much towards the reconiliation of preceived `heresy', Elliott choosing to introduce the age old dilemma that widespread use of science can only reduce the spiritual power of the church and this latest installment moving more and more towards a religious commentary where inevitable parallels are intimated. Making heavy use of `portals' to get around with inconsistent time serves to speed up the action considerably as we track the momentous events that lead us towards the final volume. Elliot's series is, perhaps, not quite on a technical par with Jordan, or even Goodkind, but the depth of imagination rivals Donaldson. The unfortunate point is that the complexity of character and plot and the length of time it has taken Elliott to produce this fifth novel means that, to get the very best out of it, you need to reread the preceding novel, otherwise names and places and plots become faintly vague and difficult to recollect. Nevertheless, this is another excellent installment and a must for any fan of the genre	2003-09-01
US	50323648	R2SNLSKM1F70R9	0316857319	873681978	A Very English Agent	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Very English Satire	Rathbone's `A Very English Agent' opens with grim humour upon our hero, Charlie Boylan, as he enages in his latest adventure whilst the opening salvos of the Battle of Waterloo (June 1815) rage around him. A sense of self-irony prevails throughout the opening three chapters which serves to firmly establish Charlie's character and good fortune though we end on a slightly patronising note as the author feels it necessary to explain to us that we were, in fact talking about Waterloo. Still....<BR>Part II moves to `present Day' (1852) where we find our protagonist locked up for entering Whitehall with a loaded pistol whilst attempting to claim pecuniary redress. He claims to be able to implicate much of the government and royalty in matters of nefarious intent during the Parliamentary reforms of the past forty years and proceeds to do so by writing down everything for the reader and investigator to mull over. Given over to Charlie Boylan/Bosham's narration and Cargill's (the civil servant assigned the case of finding out what he knows) `interrogation' of him, the main bulk of Part II is devoted to Charlie's enlisting by Whitehall as a secret agent. In a delightful parody of Fleming, in probably the finest paragraph in the entire novel and aptly ending Part II, Rathbone assigns 003 to Boylan and has him wondering who the other two people before him were given a licence to kill, (possibly Oliver - modelled on the historical William Oliver, referred to as the agent provocateur in Jeremiah Brandreth's death) as he embarks on his new career with his faithful Spinks and Pottle.<BR>Part III deals with Charlie's various missions, revealing that he was responsible for many seditious leaders' hangings due to murders they did not commit during riots he provoked. Above it all, de Bourgeois and Stafford (later Peel takes over) sit as Charlie's M and Q, with the three political magnates, the Prime Minister, Lord Liverpool, Wellington and the Home Secretary, Sidmouth (the latter is replaced by Lord Castlereagh after Sidmouth's retirement in 1821),  having ridiculously sublime conversations to ensure their continued political pre-eminence through the Six Acts (1819).<BR>We discover our anti-hero was a prime instigator of the Peterloo massacre (1819), gets his cover blown in Nottingham after previously having secured the convictions of the Pentrich Plotters and ensured Cashman's death and then concludes with Thistlewood's hanging after the attempted assassination of the entire cabinet (The Cato Street Conspiracy of 1820) and subsequent exit from England having been spotted once too often.<BR>Part IV throws up Charlie's freedom from Pentonville (on a technicality) and turning up at Cargill's house (where his wife Emily is undergoing her own private liberation) settles down with port and cigars to narrate his Mediterranean escapade in the assassination of Percy Bysshe Shelley (d.1822). He manages to insinuate himself into the group and what follows is an attempt to both catalogue and understand the mind of Shelley the poet, Shelley the revolutionary, to make sense of the ramblings and effervescent perceptivity of the poet. We follow as Charlie  learns that Shelley cannot swim so arranges for his boat to capsize thus ending the life of one of england's revolutionary poets.<BR>Part V returns us to present day as we learn that the pecuniary redress he sought was for the Shellley assassination that never got paid and we discover the means of blackmail that he is using to extract his fee - certain papers proving the royal ancestry of Captain Garth (whom Charlie later assassinated). A Mr Bucket from the Home Office turns up to ask for the papers proving the above, is sent on a wild goose chase to Bognor and returns to arrest Boylan and the maid Deirdre on suspicion of attempted murder, Mr Cargill now being hospitalised with arsenic poisoning. After shifting from Millbank to a more luxurious prison, Charlie recommences his tale in 1831, recounting his partto his new interogator - Elliott - in ensuring the hangings of James Cooper and Henry Cook and ensuring others are deported amongst various other ramblings. <BR>We end with Part VI, a litany of short events as Charlie relates more and more to convince Elliott. We hear of the previous year where Chancellor Wormwolt comissioned Charlie to blow up Crystal Palace in order to create anarchy. However, one of the co-conspirators used it as a means to attempt the assassination of Queen Victoria and Charlie managed to prevent this. Also, of  his affair with Maggie-May that ended up with his flight to America and of Wellington's funeral before concluding as we begain with him in prison about to narrate his participation in Darwin's voyage on the Beagle. As Charlie stated over four hundred pages ago, he is representative of the common unsung particpant in all histories notable efforts, but his tale can never be proved or believed and we conclude not sure of his veracity or mendacity.<BR>As the Observer puts it, this latest novel from Rathbone is a `tour de force', a magnificent exercise in irony and parody set against a darkly turbulent time of Georgian England. A rich vein of humour runs through as we watch our scheming government agent followed by his almost hapless, Clouseau-esque government detective who, in trying to ascertain the truth, serves only to mire the reader in more and more uncertainty. Death and promiscuity follows our early `00x' agent who appears to be (after delving in to the historical records) an pseudonym for many of the agent provocateurs around that the time, Oliver, Castle and Edwards to name some prominent ones, as Rathbone's fictionalising of the historical events surrounding the parliamentary reforms of the early nineteenth century unfolds with alacrity. Nevertheless Rathbone's latest is at the pinnacle of his literary powers and this is a book well worth delving into.	2003-08-21
US	50323648	R3QPQ4SPZM51UC	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The epic gets better	Goodkind's `Faith of the Fallen' follows effortlessly from the previous `Soul of the Fire' where both Richard and Kahlan have banished the Chimes from the world, thus restoring magic. However, not without price, as the first two hundred pages are given over to Kahlan's rehabilitation (she conveniently can't use magic to heal herself) back in Richard's home forests interspersed with more development of the Sister of the Dark, Death's Mistress, Nicci, as she gains her freedom from the Imperial Order and Jagang (roasting his able lieutenant to death along the way). Goodkind spends considerable time explaining why Nicci is as emotionless as she is, detailing her childhood brainwashing by her severely misguidedly charitable mother (who fails to learn that whilst her intentions are good, her actions ultimately cause greater suffering) and subsequent emotional problems as she grew to adulthood in the Sisters Palace. References to Richard's arrival under the captivity of Verna in previous novels are heralded as her personal epiphany.<BR>So by the third hundred set of pages we are neatly in position for Richard to use prophecy to disavow all interest in helping the fight against the Order and for Nicci to turn up and cast a maternity spell linking her to Kahlan and giving her power of life and death. This emotional weapon forces Richard to follow her into a farcical `oblivion' as she seeks the answer to a question she cannot fathom.<BR>There is a decidedly interesting and humanizing section where Kahlan places the culpability for all the death and destruction on the ex-Prelate, Ann, emphasizing that it is in fact her obsession with prophecy that ensures it must come about.<BR>Nevertheless as Nicci and Richard travel a lonely path south to the Old World, Kahlan's metamorphosis into a true death's mistress commences as she (in true Ce'Nedra style) leads the ragtag army against the Imperial Order in guerilla fashion. The numbers of troops tend to get overly large and the inevitable volume of deaths displayed as purely numbers rather than people. In fact (other than the wedding of Warren and Verna) most of Kahlan's role in the novel is reduced to general as battle after battle is fought. To be honest the repetition of action meant those pages were read quickly in order to return to the more interesting plot followng Richard. <BR>So, Richard and Nicci make it to the worst town in the Old World where he continues to confound her. With his usual charisma he encourages growth of a communal spirit with his helpful style of free enterprise that brings out the best in people. In some respects (and this is fairly novel in the fantasy genre) Goodkind is attempting a social and political criticism/comment. From Richard's incarceration to his rebellious carving of the main entrance statue on the new palace we accelerate through the rest of the novel as it is ultimately Nicci who realizes the truth of what she has become and follow Kahlan as she fights to save Aydrindil.<BR>As ever Goodkind's characterization is exceptional (with the sole exception of Cara who is overly drawn, and her relationships with Richard and Kahlan too artificial, though softened when she meets Benjamin) his plot lines keep moving at a steady plod, galloping at the right times to draw the reader into a frisson of excitement. Goodkind again elevates Richard Rahl beyond the normal, emphasizing that the inevitable change that sweeps behind this war wizard can also be achieved by simple calm and goodness all the while building his character upon the Wizard's Sixth Rule.<BR>As good as Jordan, and grandiose as Eddings, the latest installment of the Sword of Truth is another fine example of a fantasy author at the peak of his literary powers.	2003-08-13
US	50323648	R3JLH0JJ8938FQ	0786711574	215157706	The Gates of Hell: A Mystery of Alexander the Great	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A complex addition to the series	The third of Doherty's Alexander mysteries finds the son of Philip II preparing to attack Halicarnassus. Firmly ensconced in the city is the Persian 'triumvirate' of Memnon of Rhodes, the Persian satrap Orontobates, and the Greek renegade Ephialtes who are preparing the city against the coming assault.<BR>Having been informed that the city is impregnable we learn of the Pythian manuscript whose encryption hides the secret to Halicarnassus' achilles heel. Both sides are racing to translate it.<br />Into the mix steps Telamon and Cassandra, tasked with project managing the decipherment effort for Alexander. The Persians have their master cryptanalyst, the Eunuch, a master-forger. However, before we can delve too deeply, Pamenes, Lord Mithra's Persian spy and on the code-breaking team of Queen Ada, is found murdered.<BR>After the Persians raid Alexander's villa to steal Parmenes corpse and protect the identity of a spy who is supplying them with all Alexander's plans,  it becomes evident that Pamenes was on the verge of cracking the code.. . the only problem with this is that for Doherty the code seems to be using english letters and there are several references to a twenty-six letter alphabet (all very inaccurate, but you can see the author's problem with introducing a code based on the Greek)<BR>There is a fairly curious technical plot method here as we follow the actions of each side, then switch to follow the thought process of the other side as they puzzle out how and why the other side acted. It does, essentially, double the writing required for the action as it is really a regurgitation of what has previously happened. Still...past Chapter Five we move into a series of feints at the Harlicarnassus walls. Some time is spent describing the tactics Alexander used, but it is mainly used as a vehicle to emphasize that the defenders are somehow in constant possession of Alexander's military tactics.<BR>Two more deaths then result, those of the Mageros and his daughterat the villa (plus Pamenes' cat). Telamon steers us to a sense of unease about Sarpedon (in charge of the security of the cryptoanalysts), the overtly thespian Gentius (whose presence enables Doherty to indulge in his favourite pastime of quoting various Greek authors - as he has done in the previous novels) and his implied-promiscuous wife Demertara, all the whilst teasing out the true facts as to the cryptanalysts movements on the night before and morning of Pamenes death. By page 200 of the hardback Constable version Telamon spends a page neatly summing all the questions he has now to answer. From here there are several more deaths, the most prominent being Demerata (though it's fairly obvious - and Doherty has Telamon solve it extremely rapidly - it was Gentius in a fit of passionate rage), Telamon experiments with theory after theory to determine how the spy was getting information to Memnon, the Eunuch is murdered and civil unrest inside Harlicarnassus forces the Persians to take to the open field in battle. Eventually, Telamon solves the somewhat simplistic code of Pythias, reveals the secret to gaining the city (which Alexander knew already) and participates in the storming.<BR>Thereafter a quick return to the villa of Cybele reveals the spy and Telamon explains all in his denouement, following his usual process of granting a quick death to the guilty party in return for details of where the treasure is. Doherty's style of ancient murder mystery rolls along nicely, it is not overly heavy on characterisation, historicity or plot, but tends to focus somewhat on complexity of mystery, with his usual cryptic puzzle thrown in along the way. Whilst it is not in quite the same leagues as a Saylor or Davis, perhaps, if you're a fan of the genre the third Telamon mystery is worth the time.	2003-08-01
US	50323648	R1QWW9YP6YDJ5N	0613494490	114608099	Nefer the Silent (Stone of Light)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Somewhat simplistic	Christian Jacq's latest novel is technically very punchy in style, sacrificing scene development for action. His characterisations also seem to follow the same pattern. In 'The Stone of Light' opener, we see several contrasting characters, most of which are not as simple and forthright as Paneb the Ardent, yet still come across as sketches rather than blooded characters. Perhaps the later installments of The Stone of Light will add more flesh to their sparse bones.<BR>After the Ramses series, Jacq once more plunges us into his version of Eygptian history, this time taking us to West Thebes, to the secret village known as the Place of Truth where rigorously selected craftsmen who have see the `Way' work on the tombs and edifices within the Valley of the Kings. It is fairly near the end of Ramses reign and he has a walk-on part, purely to emphasize the importance of the Place of Truth as we are more concerned with the `giant' sixteen year old Ardent (whose all consuming desire is to become an artist, but both his birth and circumstance preclude entry) and his peer, Silent, (who was born to the village but is currently wandering Egypt in search of his own personal light). Silent's wandering through Thebes neatly allows Jacq to ensure that the two meet and, after saving Silent's life, gives Ardent the necessary means to approach the village. Silent also meets and elopes with Ubekhet (destined to become a priestess, along with Ardent's future wife, Uabet, and mistress, Turquoise - interesting name as it originates in 14th century old French).<BR>Most of the action surrounding these characters is taken with Ardent's somewhat Herculean efforts to prove himself along every step of the regimented way to gaining entry to the village. Jacq overemphasizes his tenacity, simplicity, efficiency and effectiveness all of which would be a trifle too good to be true save he is affected by an arrogance born of sheer over-confidence. Nevertheless, he surmounts all tasks and is admittedto the village to become Paneb the Ardent, in the same manner that Silent becomes Nefer the Silent.<BR>The real story that runs through is the use of Mehy, an ambitious man (whom we see committing a murder in the opening scenes) who marries, murders, cheats and lies his way up through the highest echelons of Pharaonic Thebes. His desire to destroy the Place of Truth (no real reason is actually given) eventually gives way to an attempt to murder Ramses which fails (though time eventually achieves his aim) through Ardent's preceptivity. With his equally secretly ambitious wife, Serketa, they spend most this opener gleaning information, setting up a network of spies and establishing themselves. However, at no point do the youg artisans ever come into direct contact with the scheming Mehy, only through the medium of the Place of Truth's security commander, Sobek (who provides some levity throughout).<BR>This opening novel (of four) is a refreshing read, similar in style to Rameses and moves along at a nice pace. It is usually the mark of a good book that you can get to the end and be entertained, yet realise that nothing really happened throughout as it seems to setup the remaining novels. If you like the Rameses series then The Stone of Light should be just as enjoyable.	2003-07-28
US	50323648	R28RT8L5X1NINS	0747272840	907827971	When the Eagle Hunts	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The Eagle is firmly established	Scarrow's third installment of Cato and Macro in `When the Eagle Hunts' drops us into Camulodunum (after a quick account of the shipwreck of Valerius Maxientius with unknown female plus children in the Channel) where our familiar heroes are frequenting a seedy tavern as Macro continues his `courtship' of the forthright Iceni warrior, Boudica. Given the previous two novels this unashamed and blatant use of another venerated historical figure comes as no surprise, even less so the parodied caricature of her as a lustful, forthright and general adventurer.<BR>Still, with good humour we follow them into the tavern and then meet Boudica's mentor and husband-to-be, Prasutagas whose characterisation as a huge warrior with little intellectual capacity is entirely at odds with actual history. Scarrow introduces a minor love triangle with the usually dour Macro falling for the lively Boudica though he refuses to admit it.<BR>The action of the third novel takes off with the Augusta II being sent to Calleva (near the modern town of Silchester) in order to scout the Britons' next move. Whilst down there the sixth cohort under Hortensius is ambushed in a town that has previously been raided by the Durotriges and they fight a rearguard action all the way back to the legion. It is at this point we learn of a shadowy order of Druids who have captured General Plautius wife, Pomponia, and children, Julia and Aelius, and are holding them to ransom in return for the legion's own prisoners. <BR>Macro and Cato are sent undercover deep into the Durotriges territory to attempt a rescue of the prisoners. Their guides are Boudica and Prasutagas - neatly providing us with some amusing asides as each learns to live with the other. We move from farmhouse to secret villages as the four delve ever deeper into southern Britain until they finally catch up with them at a formidable hillfort. Cato attempts a risky rescue via the drains (having previously saved one of the children, Julia) after Macro is felled with a sword blow to the head and in the process of the legion's storming the fort receives a near fatal wound from the sickle of the head Druid. However all ends well and finally Cato gets what he deserves - promotion to centurion and both he and Macro end up in their own personal sickward for a month to cap it all off.<BR>Mr Cornwell doesn't have `too much to fear' (as he professes on the front covers) but Scarrow's books are an enormously refreshing in the historical genre. The purist can pick multiple holes in their historical accuracy and probably several characterisations that are more parodies, but it simply does not matter.<BR>For Scarrow historical accuracy is not all-important. What is important and where he succeeds admirably is in providing a ripping yarn that has action, adventure, characters you can delight in, and plot lines that are gripping. <BR>I hope the adventures of Cato and Macro continue for a very long time and eagerly await the next installment.	2003-07-21
US	50323648	R3VRD1YDRV0SGT	0801861780	918752130	The Voyage of the  Argo The  Argonautica of Gaius Valerius Flaccus	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A vital piece of translation	David Slavitt's translation of Gaius Valerius Flaccus' Argonautica, has served to make this eminent Latin poet far more accessible to the twenty-first century reader. One of the only pieces of classical verse where we have a direct comparison to another - in this case Apollonius of Rhodes' version written some four hundred years earlier, the story of Jason and the Golden Fleece (further immortalized in a Hollywood epic) - it is given an entirely new look by Flaccus and is now brought to the attention of the modern reader.<BR>The Argonautica is split into eight books and deals with Jason's search for fleece and his dealings with Medea. Book I opens with his uncle Pelias, enticing Jason to search for the fleece in Colchis, hoping that his nephew will find his death and thereby prevent the prophecy that Pelias will find his doom from his own kin. We are treated to a lengthy tabulation of all the heroes and demi-mortals that have chosen to participate in the voyage, yet Flacchus is very aware that a list of names does not grip a reader's attention. After the ship sets sail we are treated to the Olympian Gods threats and favors, Flacchus following a well-trodden path of depicting the Gods as taking sides over a game, each keen to encourage their favorites and stop their opponents.<BR>In Book II the Argo's main visit is to Lemnos which has undergone a purging of the island's husbands caused by the trickery of Venus. The Argonauts spend some time Jason and  Hypsipyle forming a union. However, they leave and the book ends with Hercules' rescue of the sacrifical maid from the Hydra monster at the legendary city of Troy. <BR>Book III has them visiting the friendly land of Cyzicus. However, post-departure the goddess Cybele turns the Argo around and the shipmates blindly attack their new-won allies at  night in utter confusion. A further adventure sees them stopping in a thickly wooded land (to repair Hercules' oar). During the sojourn, Hylas is lured to a watery death by nymphs and Hercules searches for him forcing the Argonauts to debate the merits of teamwork and eventually leave him there.<BR>During Book IV Jove rescues Hercules and sends him to save Prometheus. Meanwhile, the Argo approaches Bebrycian ruled by the tyrannical King Amycus who kills all with a cestus. One half of the famous twins, Castor, defeats him in combat, thus saving an oppressed people. Sailing on there is a minor interlude as Orpheus recounts story of Io who was transformed by Jove into cow to avoid the wrath of Juno (she became Egyptian Isis, according to Flacchus, thus neatly placing Egyptian mythology secondary to Roman).  Once this is recounted they land again and meet Phineus and his woeful tale of the Harpies that deny him decent substenance. Once the winged brothers, Calais and Zetes, defeat them Phineus foretells the coming adventures and they sail on to navigate the treacherous Cyanean rocks to the mouth of Pontus and reach the land of King Lycus.<BR>Book V opens with pestilence as both the helmsman, Tiphys, and Idmon dying. Arriving at the Colchis shores the Argonauts meeting King Aeetes and request the Fleece. He coerces them into fighting on his side against his brother, Perses, the Fleece being the reward. The remainder of the book reverts to hero tabulation, namely of Aeetes warriors and we move swiftly into the battle against Perses in Book VI with yet more listing of whom slew whom, all the while avidly encouraged by Mars and Palla Minerva. The battle ends and we move into the Olympian actions with Juno enticing Medea - who is known as the greatest witch of her time - to assist Jason when Aeetes asks him to sow the dragons teeth (as a delaying tactic to giving him the Fleece). Juno takes Medea to the midst of the battle and using Venus' girdle, ensnares Medea's heart, as we move through some hundred-plus lines of a battle paean to Jason. The book ends with Aeetes' victory over Perses.<BR>Book VII moves from the passion of war into the passion ofthe heart as Medea struggles to understand her feelings for Jason. It is at this moment that Aeetes hidden scorn for Jason pours forth, as he challenges Jason to prove yet further his valor by harnessing the bulls to sow the dragon's teeth. There follows Medea's subjective soliloquy as she strives to decide between aiding Jason (and thus Greece) or not aiding him and thus betraying her father. It takes a visitation from Venus disguised as Circe to convince her to aid Jason and to betray her country, her king, her father. Having decided she meets Jason in secret and he implores her to accept his hand. Thus captivated she explains what he needs to do with both it and on the further perils that await him. The next day dawns and with it Jason's fufillment of the task, to Aeetes dismay. We reach Book VII and Jason claims both Medea and the Fleece, fleeing away in the Argo, receiving the acclaimation of peoples on his return voyage. A chasing ship headed by Medea's brother, Absyrtus overhauls and blocks them in. Jason is convinced by his men to leave Medea behind and he agrees. When Medea finds out there is a terrible argument....<BR>At this point the poem ends (due to Flaccus death?) and the poem is completed by Slavitt using the knowledge from other authors in order that the reader isn't left hanging on.<BR>Slavitt's blank verse has rendered Flaccus extremely readable and the translator has retained much of the general sense of the original without reverting to the modern vernacular. What he has certainly achieved is to make this lesser known Latin poet far more accessible to the modern reader and has achieved it in a manner that gives new life to the myth of the voyage of the Argo.	2003-07-17
US	50323648	R3NAGJ2AJIT7Y1	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Probably the best of the four he's done so far	Of all Reilly's four novels to date this is perhaps the most plausible - in at least one of its plot lines. In this case the major one, where several governments send in their best elite teams to secure what they think is alien technology. The entire ICG infiltration subplot gives Reilly permission ensure that there is a darker motive - keeping knowledge of the ICG secret -  though you could argue that the impression is given early on in the novel that everyone knows it exists, albeit as myth.<br />Anyhow, the premise of the novel is that the US scientists at the Wilkes Research station in the Antarctic have discovered a vast cavern housing an `alien' craft buried in ice 1500ft down. By the time Shane Schofield (US marine) and his team arrive we discover that a group of French scientists have responded to an SOS and are already assisting. As with all Reilly novels it quickly degenerates into mayhem. Our French scientists are actually elite troops determined to secure the place or erase it (much is made of erasing methods by Reilly and each subsequent team into the place (the British SAS, then the US Navy SEALS) brings one bigger and better than the last. The nuclear tipped cruise missile ends up with the final say, though. However, before we get to our earth shaking finale (literally) Schofield and his team, mainly backed with Libby Gant, Mother, Book (who dies in a particularly nasty manner) Refound and the bespectacled scientist, Renshaw (whom you can't help seeing as a protoype for William Race in the latest, `Temple'?), are forced to take on some of the world's best who are storming the place.<BR>Reilly helpfully provides a schematic in his novels of the battle zones so we gain an familiarity with the inner structural workings of the place as we hurtle around in light, dark, and, at one point, a strobe effect. From the retracting bridge over C level, to confronting radiation enhanced diurnal elephant seals in the cavern, to swimming under icebergs in the Antarctic to destroy French submarines etc. etc. the entire novel oozes thriller.<BR>We are introduced to a friendly seal named Wendy who saves the day on more than one occasion and a pod of ferocious killer whales. Reilly drags in the protective element with the young Kirsty, whose stepmother turns out to be extremely wicked and we are taught lessons that the mysterious ICG group, who are tasked with ensuring all new technology remains in US hands, are everywhere.<BR>The action in the novel is immense and never lets up. From the opening assault by the French, the dealings with the killer whales, the SAS assault, a major chase in snow hovercrafts, destroying subs and calving off vast areas of the Ice shelf, `Ice Station' doesn't disappoint. Through all the attacks Schofield hangs on to most of his team, cool-headedly escapes death every time, saves the day, outs the truth and even manages plenty of one-liners. Plausibity aside, (which is never  a requisite for Reilly's novels) the opening `Scarecrow' novel is a grand read and certainly makes that long plane or train journey disappear in a blur...	2003-06-30
US	50323648	R3TRRI2HB9OL71	075153238X	548852129	A Summer of Discontent (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	No discontent here	Gregory's eighth installment of the Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles takes our unassuming hero and his overly self-important sidekick, Senior Proctor Michael, out of Cambridge, hot footing it to the Isle of Ely in the Fens, to assist Michael's patron, de Lisle, Bishop of Ely, who has been accused by Lady Blanche de Wake of murdering William Glovere. Add two more apparent suicides (Haywarde and Chaloner) and multiple burglaries (pinned on the gypsies, represented by Eulalia,Guido, and Goran) and within thirty pages another well-crafted murder mystery is underway from the pen of this excellent pseudonymal author. <BR>Very quickly Bartholomew ascertains that the three `suicides' were in fact murdered in the same manner (a sharp implement inserted into the base of the neck) and the pressure quickly applies as Michael needs to solve the case to save de Lisle. Eight more murders follow before we catch our culprit(s), six of them monastic, as Gregory skilfully weaves a tale of plotting rebellion and political intrigue together.<BR>Moving away from Cambridge has given Gregory the chance to develop several new characters. As we visit the place where Michael took his vows, we meet the obese sub-prior Thomas, the greedy almoner, Robert, the architect prior, Alan, the sub-hosteller, William, the kindly resident physician Henry, his recalcitrant and nasty knife-obsessed assistant, Julian and a group of seditious townsfolk, represented by the insidious Leycestre and his nephews who are supported by the parish priest, John.<BR>The return of Tysilia, the overly promiscuous `niece' of de Lisle (we in fact discover she is the fruit of a union of de Lisle and his accuser, Blanche), from the preceding `An Order for Death' provides an entertaining aside. Gregory has created a useful and enigmatic character in Tysilia. A loose canon, she can get the plot moving whenever Gregory has sown up things a bit too tightly, and you can't help feeling that underneath the veneer of stupidity, there must be concealed a cunning mind.<BR>So, we move from barns and vineyards to infirmaries and local taverns, are presented with the inevitable politics and feuds that a closed society generates, are brought near the inherent rebellious problems that a feudal society with such a gulf between rich and poor generates, experience Bartholomew's frustration with the gluttonous monks and his inability to get in to the library and revel in the discomfort that Michael experiences when he becomes the target for Tysilia's amorous intentions.<BR>This novel is neatly summed by Bartholomew when he declares that the problem in solving the murders is that they have so many relevant snippets of information but no thread. There are many characters who have expressed personal motive for killing at least one, but never all, of the victims, and there is a decided lack of apparent motive most of the way through. Still, by the time we end up racing after the murderer(s) into the under repair cathedral and we get the inevitable summation of events Michael eventually (dis)proves Ely's culpability in the first murder which started it all off and we are provided with immense mind-bending fun along the way.<BR>Gregory's ability to set scene and plot in such a short space of time, taking you right into the heart of thirteenth century England is faultless. Her ability to portray the town of Ely, and specifically its priory is a delight and of the highest class. The Bartholomew series is now set as one of the finer sleuthing establishments and I can only hope it is a long time before the author downs her pen.	2003-06-30
US	50323648	R2IRH68BYQB4OT	0066210801	784401617	Vagabond (The Grail Quest, Book 2)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable second....	Bernard Cornwell's `Vagabond' picks up where `Harlequin' ended, though Thomas has left France and is approaching Durham with both Father Hobbe and his pregnant soon-to-be-wife, Eleanor. We are told that Edward III has tasked Thomas with finding out more about the legendary Grail and his family's (the Vexilles) connection to it. Before he can reach Durham to speak to Broker Collimore who was the monk responsible for Thomas' father's, Father Ralph of Hookton, care the wily Guy Vexille, present as the servant of the Inquisition Dominician priest De Taillebourg gets there first and ends up murdering the monk, Eleanor and Father Hobbe. I must confess it was slightly surprising the way these two major characters suddenly got written off but further plot lines dicate it was a necessity.<BR>Thomas ends up defending Durham from the invading Scots under David the Bruce, goaded by the French that northern England lay undefended in the Battle of Neville's Cross and we are treated to another particularly intense battle sequence so common to Cornwell's writing. The introduction of Sir William Douglas (who character provides some levity in a time of war) and his son Robbie ensures that Thomas has a new companion when he returns south to Hookton. Whilst Thomas ensures his enemies are fed false information as to his whereabouts he returns to France, to Evecque and becomes the temporary scourage of the Comte de Coutances who is besieging Sir Guillame. Both Thomas, Robbie and Sir Guillame make their escape with the assistance of the friendly Pierre Villeroy and his doting wife, Yvette. Sir Guillame reunites Thomas with Will Skeat (who's not too bad after nearly dying in the previous novel at Crecy) and Mordecai and after a brief skirmish in the English Channel they find themselves back at La Roche-Derrien where Thomas' old flame, Jeanette, has returned. Much of the rest of the novel centres around here, from Thomas' ill-fated raid on Roncelles and capture by de Taillebourg, his subsequent torture and ransoming to Charles de Blois' siege of La Roche. Right down to the final battle scenes where a mixture of luck and sheer bravery save the day, Cornwall's penmanship is excellent. Guy Vexille makes his escape and a lot of the initial wrongs to the other characters associated with Thomas are rectified, but we are left with Thomas and Robbie ready to chase down Guy in the third installment, `Heretic'.<BR>The two novels of the Grail Quest to date are an enjoyable read. Cornwell's placement of his characters within the reality of history is faultless, his prose-style and plot lines gripping. He provides both magnificent villains and flawed heroes in a world of violence and the right mixture of political intrigue and grim reality to shock. A historical writer at the pinnacle of his time.	2003-06-28
US	50323648	R3Q8Z6RS5I3KSE	0754024784	226416014	Harlequin (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	An excellent adventure	There is an inevitability that any new Cornwall book will be measured against the Sharpe series and the opener of the Grail Quest series, `Harlequin' proves that it is of the same ilk. The novel follows an English archer, Thomas of Hookton, from the destruction of his home town and the murder of his father, Father Ralph, through to the battle of Crecy in 1346. Cornwall moves from battle to battle during a period, now denoted by modern historians as the commencement of the Hundred Years War, during which King Edward III of England waged war through Normandy against Philip VI of France.<BR>Cornwall opens in England with the deliberate sack of Hookton by the French knight-pirate, Sir Guillame and the enigmatic figure of the Harlequin. Their prize is the legendary lance of St George. After this prologue we are swiftly deposited in France where Thomas has become an archer of some note in the English army under the leadership of Will Skeat. We are at the walls of La Roche-Derrien which the English are desperate to storm and eventually manage to do with the guile of Thomas. It is during this period the main characters are established, Thomas' immediate enemy - Sir Simon Jekyll, Jeanette Chemier, Comtesse d'Amorique (though known initially as the Blackbird), niece of Charles de Blois, Father Hobbe - who seems to spend most of time acting as Thomas' conscience in a manner that more befits the slave whispering in the triumphant imperator's ear - Eleanor and an assortment of other minor characters.<BR>So, we move from battle to battle, Thomas saving Jeanette after Charles de Blois takes her son, he flees attempted murder, makes it to Normandy, loses Jeanette to the Prince of Wales (the Black Prince of later legend), finds Sir Guillame, learns of the true nature of the Harlequin, is tasked with the greater mission of the Grail quest and eventually fights in the Battle of Crecy, which the English win.<BR>A great deal of the novel is given over to the dominance of the archer in this period of history and Cornwall has clearly researched his subject matter as there is technical detail littered throughout. His depictions of the battles are what we would expect of the author of the Sharpe series and he doesn't shy away from depicting the brutal reality of medieval warfare. Our hero is not overly chivalrous - though considerably more so that his counterparts - and we are taken through the aftermath of several battles into the details of sacking cities - particularly Caen.<br />Some of the characterization is a little stereotyped. Particularly the villains. There is a fairly weak reason given for Sir Simon's initial enmity - seems to be just an instant dislike, which is echoed in the later `Vagabond' with Sir William Douglas - which then rests on a more solid foundation after Thomas steals both his desired woman and then attempts to murder him. The dark cloaked Harlequin (or Guy Vexille, Count of Astarac - who turns out to be Thomas' cousin ) is also somewhat standardized as the thinking villain amongst the remaining bumbling ones. Indeed, most of the battles are won by the English (or people associated with Thomas) due the enemy's lack of foresight, intelligence, or experience.<BR>Nevertheless, this is a good story and you come away with the impression of some accuracy.  The pace moves along nicely, there are some complete subplots and the right mix of reality and general adventurousness. All in all a well rounded tale and it'll make the reader reach for both `Vagabond' and the eventual `Heretic'.	2003-06-23
US	50323648	R34PO4ZO4WHYTV	0312983220	931157258	Area 7 (Scarecrow Series)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Weakest of the four to date	Reilly's foray into his second Schofield adventure takes us deep into the Arizona desert and to a place called Area 7. In much the same vein as Contest we are placed in a sealed environment with several groups of people bent on killing each other under the guise of a `game'. The novel throws in even more action and adventure to the point at which several gears are missed as Reilly throttles it up to maximum power and keeps it jammed wide open for the entire novel. There are two interlinked yet nonsensical plots: the first - the American president has a transmitter attached to his heart and unless can avoid some steroided 7th squadron army personnel bent on murdering him and ensure he handprints a `football' every ninety minutes lest it set of mini nuclear explosions in fourteen major airports and generally survive he'll be responsible for the death of the US as he knows it. The second - the Chinese have created a lethal virus that only targets non-Asians, created through a genetically created child called Kevin, that an ex-South African military elite unit, turned mercenary organisation, are after.<BR>Amongst all this Schofield  - callsign Scarecrow - is part of the presidential detail caught up who need to rescue the boy, the president, kill the baddies in as spectacular fashion as possible and save the day. A multitude of assorted characters are with and against him, from the deranged and resurrected Caesar Russell (terribly cliched), the five 7th squadron teams and a bunch of criminal medical subjects on the bad side  to Brainiac, Gant, Book II (son of Book who ended up on the casualty list in Ice Station), Mother and Elvis on the good - to name a few.<BR>So, our erstwhile hero drives the watery canyons (in a manner that Reilly somehow manages to make bigger and better in the latest `Temple'), flies helicopters, crashes AWACs down enormous elevator shafts, (scenes in elevators is a favorite for our author) kills what seems like more people that were originally inthe opening cast, manages a trip into low earth orbit in a X38 (a space shuttle with missiles) and eventually saves the day, the boy, the President and manages to arrange a second date with Gant.<BR>I think this is probably the weakest of Reilly's novels to date. Even for one prepared to take it all with a major pinch of salt and totally suspend reality it got a little out of hand. Nevertheless if you like over-the-top all action novels then this is not one to miss.	2003-06-11
US	50323648	R33FFBABOCM7VK	0060110864	490987437	Aristotle detective	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A peripatetic mystery	Both this opening effort and the second `Aristotle Poetics' caught my eye whilst browsing the mystery section one day so I thought I'd give them a try. `Detective' is written in a somewhat languid style, aiming to achieve murder sleuthing through peripatetic analysis. Indeed, from the point Stephanos (nephew to the exiled major suspect Philemon, as denounced by Boutades nephew, Polygnotos) goes to his old mentor for assistance we are given a drilling in sleuthing based on logical thought, rather than physical fact. From the opening reluctance, but required first step, to prove Philemon's innocence using the Aunt Eudoxia principal (proof of a negative) to the pinpointing of the crucial evidence in the dead of night we are stepped through the murder.<BR>The year is 332 BC, Alexander has just destroyed Tyre and is marching on Egypt. The premise of the novel concerns one of the Athenian triachs - Boutos, by name - who is found murdered in a most unusual way (for an Athenian) in that he was killed by an arrow fired into his study. Fairly quickly we are presented with some people with a motive, from his abused wife, to the apparently insane Arkhimenos as we seek to find the real character of Boutades underneath the carefully crafted veneer that was presented to Athenian society.  Stephanos spends the opening sections of the novel between the first and second prodikasia attempting to find proof that Philemon was not present in Athens, spending time disguised at the Peiraieus as a countryman in order to glean from sailors and local people snippets of information about Philemon's movements after his departure from Athens. On the trail of his cousin we locate a hidden wife complete with surpise nephew for Stephanos, undergo several clandestine trips in the dark where our hero gets attacked twice and undergo social ostracism from the higher echelons of Athenian society. Eventually, Philemon turns up to provide some necessary information about the events of the night and in a classically Ciceronian manner Stephanos declaims the true murderer at the trial, after some coaching in his oratorical delivery by Aristotle.<BR>This is not a bad stab at a first murder mystery though it appears that the attempt to provide a classically accurate picture of Athenian law is detrimental to the actual plot. The eventual denouement is weak, based on little evidence, more a case of shocking the culprit(s) into an admission of guilt. You get the feeling a brazen person might yet have got away with it. Nevertheless it was sufficiently thought provoking and the development of Aristotle entertaining enough to ensure that `Poetics' and the new `Secrets of Life' is read. I suspect it will only improve as our characters develop.	2003-06-09
US	50323648	R2WQY17E192BTH	0712680446	890350588	The Jupiter Myth	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Take Falco back to Rome	Couple of firsts here for Davis. Initially a direct continuance from `A Body in the Bathhouse' where the culprit who Marcus had exiled to Gaul, turns up in Londinium as the murdered party, secondly Marcus has a more personal reason for investigating the case. A step away from his usual informing, though it is given an official air by Hilarius and Frontinus, the Roman Britain procurator and governor, respectively. What Davis also does, is impose an even tighter deadline for Marcus to carry out his sleuthing, than in the preceding novel.<BR>After the somewhat muddied effort in `Bathhouse', the Jupiter Myth is a better offering from Davis (however, I still believe Marcus is at his very best when operating in the familiar surroundings of Rome). It is, however, very slow after opening with Verovolcus' body headfirst in the Shower of Gold's well. By the end, it is ironic that this murder was more a catalyst for the remaining action, rather than particularly relevant. In fact, more effort is given to Marcus' search for Petro who inexplicably takes off over the first hundred-plus pages than any cohesive effort at establishing motive and suspects. Indeed, Petronius' behaviour doesn't match with the character Davis has so painstakingly created over the series. His rough treatment of Marcus, ordering him to stay out of it before he gets killed is blatantly ignored in the immediate as the pair begin to openly meet. I am still not entirely sure what the purpose of the scene was.<BR>Other than mutterings about a widespread protection racket and liberal descriptions of Londinium after Boudicca's revolt the book then stumbles through until we meet Marcus' old flame - the new gladiatrix Amzonia, more personally known as Chloris. It is at the point the entire novel is rescued as Davis' writing lifts, the action becomes precise, fast-flowing and Marcus becomes the fast-witted informer we all love.<BR>We leap from a battle in Londinium's wooden ampitheatre (Helena even gets involved with a pack of dogs), to ballistae at warehouses, legionary fights at locales to the breathless end with Petro's saving and Maia's somewhat exasperated final action.<BR>So, a tale of two parts. On the first part you could see a continuance of `A Body in the Bathhouse' in that it was beoming more and more evident that Falco doesn't travel very well. However, in the second part, Davis rescues it with the final hours from Maia's `capture' to the breaking of the racketeering gang. Perhaps this is due to the fact that, this time, Rome follows Falco to Britain and thus the easy familiarity is readily established. By the end of the novel Falco is back to his sleuthing best with plenty of action thrown in making this latest installment a delight to read. However, his insistence on going `home' to Rome, gives hope that the whole of Falco's next installment (The Accusers) will be back to its very best.	2003-06-09
US	50323648	R22AD6I26F1D21	0312286252	454971228	Contest	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Exhilarating	I read `Contest' after reading the explosive `Temple'. Forgetting the opening author's explanation for the novel which might be seen as a potential apology should the reader not enjoy the pages within, Contest comes across as Running Man meets a Library.<BR>The premise is simple, Dr Stephen Swain has been selected to participate in the Presidion - a thousand year ultimate Games in which the seven species in the Universe participate for the ultimate prize (though we're never told what it is). By sheer fortune for the author, the human race (though having participated twice previously through the centurion Aurelius and Sir Alfred Hayes of Palmerton in eleventh century england) is unaware of this contest (not too much of a disadvantage) but are forced to participate. So, the seven nominated warriors are teleported to Earth (the venue for the seventh Presidion) the New York State Library, to be exact, where they are sealed in with an electric field, have a bomb stapped to their wrist in case of accidental escape and are told to fight to the death. <BR>Each contestant has a guide who is not allowed to participate, only to observe and advise. Swain's, Selexin, turns out to be extremely helpful whilst going through the `humans are more complex that we originally thought' epiphany phase so favoured whenever authors introduce an alien into the mix. Swain's task is to be the last survivor and reach the teleport before the Karanadon beast catches him. To inspire him, the last two human contestants died first.<BR>Several anomalities are thrown in. Namely, Swain's daughter, Holly, is transported in. The contestant Bellos cheats, by introducing his hunting `hoods' to the battle, there are two New York policemen who are unlucky enough to be in the Library when it is sealed, Parker (who doesn't last long) and Hawkins and we get the introduction of a somewhat exaggerated US alien hunting agency who manage to get into the building only to get to add to the casualty list fairly quickly.<BR>What follows is a claustrophobic hunt to the death around the State Library resulting in major destruction, fires, multiple near-death escapes (usually in the elevators) and a general `human kicks alien backside'. All very screenplay. By the end, Swain has escaped the building, had a brief trip through the subway and got back in with a second to spare using his phone (very E.T). The Presidion is called off when it is realised that Bellos has cheated and we neatly wrap up with Selexin leaving via an illegal teleporter, the Karandon and various other alien contestants being vaporised in mini-nuclear explosions thus leaving our dishevelled human hero to climb out of the dusty rubble....<BR>I must confess I found this novel marvellous. A simple premise yet fast-actioned, good enough characterisation, developed plot, it delivers everything the author promised. No more no less. It had no pretensions of grandeur but provided a constant barrage of thrilling action. You could probably pick holes in its accuracy but that's not what it's about.<BR>If you like incredibly fast paced, plausibility-is-irrelevant, action novels, then this is for you.	2003-06-03
US	50323648	R1XJMNBTJOS0SE	0312195850	597652747	A Murder in Thebes: A Mystery of Alexander the Great	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Needs improving....	`Murder in Thebes' opens at Alexander's camp as he lays siege to an seemingly impregnable Thebes. Ordering that the shrines and Pindar's house remain, the stones of the city are levelled and the conquering Macedonian arrives at the Shrine of Oedipus to find a mystery. Who murdered Memnon and Lysander?<BR>As Miriam begins to investigate more murders occur and the Iron Crown of Oedipus is stolen. All that can be seen is a limping, bandaged ghost-like figure who claims to be Oedipus Rex in whose wake death follows. It is up to Miriam to unravel the deaths and the mysteries to ensure Alexander's victory does not become a political triumph for his enemies.<BR>The author's prose style and depiction of Alexanders's Greece and the Greeks is not at the level of a McCullough or Saylor. Alexander's character seems built around the many stereotypes he has been labelled with by historians and much of the terminology used has its roots well after Alexander's time, from the opening `infantry' (which dates from sixteenth century middle french and old italian), referring to the hoplites as `footmen' (a fourteenth century term) and use of a Theban stockade (from the seventeenth century Spanish) to Alexander's battles against the `savage tribes' of Thessaly, much of the vernacular makes the reader with any knowledge of the period raise a questioning eyebrow. By the time the author reveals a key protagonist to be a transvestite (coming from the Latin and `created' in the twentieth century) it is clear that historical accuracy is not the most fundamental aim of this murder mystery.<BR>However, as much as it lacks the above what it does excel at is creating puzzles. The enigma to obtain the Iron Crown without crossing the pits of fire and snakes and spikes proves baffling until Miriam literally stumbles over the answer. This mixed with the mystery of Memnon's death, several misleading pieces of information as to motive and several complex conundrums all serve to raise the plot somewhat higher over the second half of the novel. Indeed the complexities of Miriam's thought processes to solve the crimes as more and more people die means the novel degenerates into riddle-solving and people interviews. It is necessary as multiple motives, both political and personal  intrigue, and several suspects interact and press their own agendas so the reader is unaware of who tells the truth and who does not.<BR>So, as a murder mystery the author scores highly for ability to create a truly cryptic whodunnit is not in question. There are glimmerings and inklings of the culprit(s) but not enough to firmly grasp onto until Miriam's denoument. Where the novel falls down is on its historicity (both in its facts and depiction of the time) and its characterisation. Alexander's character best epitomises it and anyone who knows anything of the period and the man will realise this is one characterisation that misses its mark by some way. If you are a fan of the ancient whodunnit then this is a good addition to the collection.	2003-06-02
US	50323648	R3SI66QJHJZ7HU	0802713726	726461342	Sahara: A Natural History	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Extremely informative	Knowing very little of the history of the area of Africa now covered by the vast Sahara desert I found this an extremely fascinating journey as a novice on an area of the planet vaster than the US. Commencing with a brief glance to see if it was worth progressing I found the authors opening with a geographical account of the history of the Sahara, moving rapidly from West to East, spending time on the littoral, touching on the major empires that influenced it over the past two thousand years. Despite the fact that even this novice spotted the glaring error of George Washington's posthumous invasion it proved sufficiently interesting after a first skim through to sit down and read it avidly. <BR>The book moved on in Part One to discuss some of the sources of Saharan history and geography, heavily referencing Leo Africanus and Ibn Battuta as it attempts to give a geographical definition to the vast desert. It was interesting to find the desert is only 15percent sand. There are reflections on the ever-changing nature of the sands giving examples where it has swallowed towns whole (there is an interesting anecdote on the Arawan Hilton) and latest theories on the epochal history of the Sahara and its current movement. We hear stories of legendary armies swallowed by the sands (Cambyses being prominent) learn of the Grand Dune over 400 feet high and thirty miles long, discover that dunes come in all sizes and types, of their dancing movement (saltation and impact creep). We meet some Sahara travellers, namely, A'Yoba and come across bones whom the sands have claimed. Moving through the border of Cameroon to Chad the winds follow and we learn of the terrible hamrattan north-west wind, then the great aquifers and how under the desert satellite imaging reveals ancient riverbeds. We hear that Lake Chad is the Sahara's largest lake yet it is shrinking fast. We are taught the rainfall cycles and of rivers such as the Nile, the Niger, the Idrisi (the only perennial being the Iherir in Algeria) and oases such as Timia. As the book progresses the Massifs of Central Sahrara come into play and how life itself has survived in the Sahara from humans to plants, to the sad end of the `Arbre de Tenere.' to the animals that roam.<BR>Part Two dealt with the people who lived in the Sahara, from the first neolithic hunter-gathers to the first culture of the Aterians through to Pharanoic Eygpt. We are shown rock art, the stirrings of language, and how adversity shaped the population centres as the deserts came. Details on the ancient Saharan Empires: Eygpt, Mali, Tekrur, Old Ghana, Almohad, Almoravid, Hausa, Kanem-Bornu, Songhai and Garamantes are given and explored, their key known histories related. We move on through the various invasions of the Romans, Alexander, Arabian, Phoenician, Vandals, Byzantines and many more.  From this the authors touch on more recent political wars, the Fulani theocracies, before narrowing down onto routes, mainly created trade routes for trading salt, gold and slavery. From here we focus on the nomadic peoples of the Sahara, notably the Tuareg.. We hear of the resourceful Tubu who can live for three days on a single date and are taken to the wedding feast of the Tuareg, Ahmed before setting off with a camel caravan across the Erg de Tenere. Stories of the great 52-day crossings from Morocco to Timbuktu, of the Air-Bilma-Zinder triangle abound and on the trip we see the infamous mirages caused by dehydration. We end with the centuries old question of how these peoples who have resided here for so long are able to navigate across the empty expanses and touch, at the last, on how the modern world has begun its intrusion.<BR>As this is the first book on the Sahara I have read I cannot comment too much on its historical and geographical validity. However, the narrative skips from geography to sociology, from north to south, from past to future like the shifting sands themselves. The sheer scale of information packed into thepages is impressive. There is a sense of being with a narrator, but the narrator never intrudes. It is more a set of paragraphs, loosely collected under each chapter, but presented in a factual or anecdotal manner that makes for easy and cetainly interesting reading.	2003-05-20
US	50323648	R3BF7PWQ3PB94O	0340771291	598720377	A Vote for Murder (The Marcus Corvinus Roman Mysteries)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Loss to a sheep aside...another fine offering	The title of Marcus Valerius Messala Corvinus' latest mystery appears to indicate a mystery inextricably linked to the Roman tribal voting centuries, but this proves somewhat erroneous as we plunge into the murky politics of Latium and the apparent bad feeling between the Latins and the Romans (portrayed as decidedly one-sided). Marcus and Perilla are off to Castrimoenium to visit Marcus' stepdaughter, Marilla, indulge in a wine-tasting contest at Pontius' against a sheep, explore the gneral environs, oh, and solve a couple of murders along the way. Shortly after their arrival one of the two candidates for the local censorship- Vettius Bolanus, ex-fiance of Sulpicia, is found murdered in his own loggia (Concordius being the other candidate) and Marcus is called in by Libianus to solve the case before the potentially inflammatory Latin Festival. What results is Marcus having to understand the complex relationships between a corona civis decorated ex-centurion Spurius, his son-in-law Rufinius, the aedile Ruso, the property dealer Decidius and the anti-Roman Flacchus. Thow in a particularly nasty butcher, Euxperius and the Alban Brotherhood and you develop a severe case of things escalating out of control.<BR>Marcus' habitual case-sleuthing with Perilla drops off compared the the last two novels and this is no bad thing though he manages to replace it somewhat with Marcia Fulvina's thoughts, the elderly aunt of the current senior consul, Persicus, the latter to whom Wishart approportions buffoon-esque tendencies.<BR>There are multiple plot threads running through Wishart's latest but he manages to tie them all in neatly and plausibly, sending us down many dead ends. A case of many motives for the first murder but no realistic suspect being the culprits. The characterisation is delightful, from the Boudicca-esque Sulpicia, to the inexperienced but knowledgeable Flacchus, to the dour old veteran Spurius and the action moves along at a good clip until Marcus eventually works out the threads, discovers the plot and in the final denouement in an abandoned villa, confronts the culprits and barely escapes with his life. Humor abounds, no more so than when Marcus indulges in a wine-tasting competition - Wishart has built him up to be somewhat of a connoisseur (without degenerating to drunkenness) over the preceding episodes - and loses to his ovine relative.<BR>The two preceding offerings - 'Last Rites' and 'White Murder' had slipped slightly compared to the previous but Wishart has served another fine offering with this current book. It is not often you find a series where you want the adventures to continue for a very long time. Lindsey Davis' Falco is one, Saylor's Gordianus another....you must add Wishart's Corvinus to those two peers for 'A Vote for Murder' further proves Marcus Corvinus' deserved place in the Roman Murder Mystery genre.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-05-15
US	50323648	R2XRFTQ2XR4JJV	0340771291	598720377	A Vote for Murder (The Marcus Corvinus Roman Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Loss to a sheep aside...another fine effort	The title of Marcus Valerius Messala Corvinus' latest mystery appears to indicate a mystery inextricably linked to the Roman tribal voting centuries, but this proves somewhat erroneous as we plunge into the murky politics of Latium and the apparent bad feeling between the Latins and the Romans (portrayed as decidedly one-sided). Marcus and Perilla are off to Castrimoenium to visit Marcus' stepdaughter, Marilla, indulge in a wine-tasting contest at Pontius' against a sheep, explore the gneral environs, oh, and solve a couple of murders along the way. Shortly after their arrival one of the two candidates for the local censorship- Vettius Bolanus, ex-fiance of Sulpicia, is found murdered in his own loggia (Concordius being the other candidate) and Marcus is called in by Libianus to solve the case before the potentially inflammatory Latin Festival. What results is Marcus having to understand the complex relationships between a corona civis decorated ex-centurion Spurius, his son-in-law Rufinius, the aedile Ruso, the property dealer Decidius and the anti-Roman Flacchus. Thow in a particularly nasty butcher, Euxperius and the Alban Brotherhood and you develop a severe case of things escalating out of control.<BR>Marcus' habitual case-reminiscing with Perilla drops off compared the the last two novels and this is no bad thing though he manages to replace it somewhat with Marcia Fulvina's thoughts, the elderly aunt of the current senior consul, Persicus, the latter to whom Wishart approportions buffoon-esque tendencies.<BR>There are multiple plot threads running through Wishart's latest but he manages to tie them all in neatly and plausibly, sending us down many dead ends. A case of many motives for the first murder but no realistic suspect being the culprits. The characterisation is delightful, from the Boudicca-esque Sulpicia, to the inexperienced but knowledgeable Flacchus, to the dour old veteran Spurius and the action moves along at a good clip until Marcus eventuallyworks out the threads, discovers the plot and in the final denouement in an abandoned villa, confronts the culprits and barely escapes with his life. Humor abounds, no more so than when Marcus indulges in a wine-tasting competition - Wishart has built him up to be somewhat of a connoisseur (without degenerating to drunkenness) over the preceding episodes - and loses to his ovine relative.<BR>The two preceding offerings - `Last Rites' and `White Murder' had slipped slightly compared to the previous but Wishart has served another fine offering with this current book. It is not often you find a series where you want the adventures to continue for a very long time. Lindsey Davis' Falco is one, Saylor's Gordianus another....you must add Wishart's Corvinus to those two peers for 'A Vote for Murder' further proves Marcus Corvinus' deserved place in the Roman Murder Mystery genre.<BR>Highly recommended.	2003-04-29
US	50323648	R36BT2NOT12SIW	0312266596	559539342	Temple	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Plenty of potential	Not having read the author's previous two novels, I found, made no difference to the enjoyment offered by his third. `Temple' leans more towards Cussler in style and echoes of Clancy abound.<BR>`Temple' is a full throttle modern day Indiana Jones adventure in the deep Amazon combining military plots, ancient races, fearsome rapa cats and a machine that can destroy the planet. Reilly's Cholditz reason for its manufacture is a trifle lame, but that aside this novel possesses pace in abundance.<br />Reilly's novel appears to want to offer more explosions, more action, more stunts and general derring-do than the last. Special effects are more important than plot. To the point that the only discernable time someone actually has to reload any weapon is when it is of import to the particular scene. By the time the American team featuring our erstwhile hero - Professor William Race, ancient languages lecturer at NYU - hit the river chasing the Germans, all reality is utterly suspended and we are into the realms of the incredible. The metamorphosis of Race from mildmannered bespectacled professor to all action hero is amazing. He's Clark Kent, James Bond and Indiana Jones all rolled into one plus considerably more. Moreover his ability to escape death by seconds is proven multiple times throughout.<BR>Nevertheless this total suspension of reality (bordering on the comic book) is irrelevant - for the author's ability to develop a ripping good yarn is faultless. The premise of the novel is that the oft used `metorite contains-some-special-powers' opener arrives and with it you can build the supernova - a planet destroying device. And everyone's after it (in fact I think we get to at least six groups), following a sixteenth century story map by the Spanish monk Santiago deep into the Amazon to retrive this off-planet thyrium. The novel is broken up by Race's translations of the story and this sub-story is as equally enthralling as the modern day equivalent. It concerns HernandoPizzaro's lust for the thyrium-carved rapa head idol, the Inca Prince's Renco's stealing of it with the monk, Santiago and their flight to the citadel of Villacor in which, drawing inevitable parallels to Crighton's `Congo', resides the fearsome rapa beast of myth and legend. These great cats, that seem to be the size of elephants at times and have an aversion to ammonia, protect the idol during the centuries from Santiago to the modern day. The story descends into each group getting its hands on false idols, real idols, major chase scenes, a lack of regard for human life in the face of gaining the idol (Reilly seems to feel the need to describe the manner of death in slowmo detail most of the time) doesn't really permit any character empathy (other than William Race). By the time we find ourselves in a 67-tonne tank approaching terminal velocity the sheer incredulity of the book has gone and Race's Rocketeer final escape seems almost feasible.<BR>So, `Temple' - if want a good read that doesn't let its hands off the action throttle and possesses enough characterisation and plot to ensure interest - then this is for you.	2003-04-16
US	50323648	R2BC16G5TLCQN4	0312305338	380374832	The Eagle's Conquest: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A delight to read	Luckily, I read `The Eagle's Conquest' straight after `Under the Eagle', and this was somewhat fortuitous as there's no break in the timeline. Literally, `the next day'...<BR>The continuing adventures of Macro and Cato, centurion and Optio, in Britain with the Augusta II makes for more delightful reading. Yes there are historical inaccuracies, yes the charcterisations are usually parodies, but it works! Just like Marilyn Todd's Claudia, both these two trip through the ancient Roman Empire with an irreverance that makes this series both fun and immensely readable.<BR>Most of the opening novel's characterisations were two-dimensional, but, with the exception of the Carthagininan, Nisus Barca (direct descendant), the assorted cast remain true to their earlier depiction and some depth appears. If you are a student of the actual history then the portrayals of Claudius as the bumbling, inept owner of the purple takes Suetonius one step overly far just as Vitellius' (given his eventual ascension) as a wicked conspirator is a delightful farce. But somehow, it just doesn't seem to matter.<BR>Cato and Macro plunge headfirst into the conquest of Caracatus and his hordes of Britons - who do seem to leap straight out `Braveheart' sometimes - together with the ever-scheming Vitellius' murder plot and the wince-worthy `Liberators'. They pave the way for Claudius' triumphal entry into Camulodunum on his elephants and along the way Macro escapes death. In his absence Cato assumes temporary command, ends up with major burns, they have multiple fights along the Tamesis, the command structure of the legions is as strange under Plautius as ever and it remains to the stoical Vespasian to save the day. Throw in Cato's broken heart and Flavia's aspirations and you end up with a marvellously gripping read.<BR>So, `The Eagle's Conquest' - a delightful addition to the Roman historical novel genre and whilst there are novels out there who strive to echo reality as much as possible, the genre was crying out for a more lighthearted approach. Scarrow is providing it and long may Cato's and Marco's adventures continue.	2003-04-14
US	50323648	R1UEQ2AX1IEIWP	0676975593	131628918	Dreaming the Eagle	Books	3	26	32	N	N	Needs improvement....	Compared to McCullough, this offering from Scott wasn't impressive, but perhaps understandably so. `Boudica' from Manda Scott tends to follow a well-trodden formula in its plot technique. It is a methodology repeated in many current offerings in this rapidly expanding sub genre of historical fiction which, admittedly, has the benefit of enabling the reader to discern more easily the excellent from the mediocre.<BR>The opening chapters of the first of this trilogy inevitably present us with the childhoods of Ban and Breaca and move onwards through the latter's development into an Eceni warrior, multiple battles, soul searching and growth.<BR>We are pointed towards the Eceni (another interpretation of the spelling of the British tribe I haven't come across - along with the one `c' Boudica) as being a peoples emerging from the Bronze Age to the Iron Age, the usual (and accurate) place of tribal honour being given to the smith. From Breaca's killing of the Coritani warrior raider to her first crafting of a brooch, to her first sword we move from one important educational episode to the next with moral purpose to build reason behind the adult character to come. Fairly typical of historical fictional biography and it enables the author to firmly establish character. Yet, my biggest problem with this novel is the unreality of age and intellectual maturity. The main characters all seem to be in early adolesence yet are treated by the adults and act as though they are in their thirties or more, making tribe-affecting decisions and taking usually hard-earned experience actions with unsettling aplomb. In makes the entire novel less credible. Admittedly, we know nothing about Boudicea's (if you prefer the Victorian spelling) youth and thus the opener of this trilogy is pure fantasy, but it takes it to heights that are a little incredulous. So much so that by the time the entire entourage takes a little trip to Mona reality is entirely suspended.<BR>The other problem was that the novel lacks that necessary requirement of any trilogy opener - the ability to provide a gripping story. I found it very easy to stop mid-paragraph do something else and then come back and not feel I'd missed much. It did not inspire page turning. In fact, I confess I read 4 other novels between this one.<BR>So, the book was well written, technique well-crafted, it possessed plot and yet...I found it hard to empathise with most of the characters and I wasn't gripped - the page turning quality never kicked in to the point that I hope the second novel is much improved over this offering.	2003-04-11
US	50323648	R2NBUX5E88TRD6	071261477X	609036208	Flood	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not your usual disaster novel	First of Richard Doyle's books I've read. Its cover caught my eye in passing with the London Eye and a wall of fire behind it. I left this novel with a sense of disquiet and a massively improved sense of understanding as to exactly what a flood could do to London. Admittedly it is fiction, but it possessed enough convincing technical `fact' as to the impending reality to leave me with that lingering sour taste in the mouth.<BR>The main driver behind `Flood' is the fact that there is no focus on a particular character. This limits the assumed pathos that tends to come with any disaster novel and, curiously, means the results of the flood become the main character. All of which made it extremely interesting. <BR>I find that what tends to happen in this thriller sub-genre is that we follow defined characters as they both react to and deal with the aftermath of the given disaster. <BR>That is limited here. <BR>There are key people we can point to, like the Home Secretary, Venetia, the Barrier chief engineer, Angus, Bluewater's management team headed by Murdoch. There is also Sophie de Salis and her interaction with Harriet and the children Miranda and Chrissie, the head mistress, Pam and Jen-0's master, Ted, to name a few. Yet, we get snapshots of them spaced far apart so any development of a relationship between reader and character is not overly encouraged.<BR>The premise of `Flood' is of a storm that develops over Canada, moves across the Atlantic, rounds Scotland and plunges down the North Sea. It creates a `surge' that coincides with High Tide up the Thames to the point that the relevant authorities realise too late it will top the Thames Barrier and flood substantial parts of London. The disaster is compounded by the fact that a laden supertanker gets out of control and several important gas and oil works explode ensuing millions of tonnes of oils and flammable chemicals ride the surge up the river. Add major gas explosions caused by the inferno to this and we endup with the worst case scenario - fire and flood.<BR>So, geography becomes our main character as the story follows the flood up the Thames in a wave of destruction as we see it envelop Canvey Island, Docklands, Bluewater, the Underground, Dartford Bridge, the Dome and many more landmarks. The sheer scale of the devastation is hard to grasp and Doyle floods the novel with facts and science in a Clancy-esque manner.  You end the novel with a better knowledge of Thames tidal flow, flood geography and disaster prevention methods than when you commenced. What is interesting is that the novel simply ends with the limits of the destruction. Several loose ends abound and we are presented with Britain's capital city in ruins and no indication of the actions in the aftermath other than an almost footnote about hope of light in a world gone dark. <BR>So, not similar to other disaster novels I have read either in characterisation or presentation or plot. However, it ensures the reader keeps turning the pages in a fascinated horror of what unfolds and leaves that sense of disquiet at the end.	2003-04-09
US	50323648	R39JQM2EBY81L9	0312278705	256940375	Under the Eagle: A Tale of Military Adventure and Reckless Heroism with the Roman Legions (Eagle Series)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Flawed but promising	Simon Scarrow's first public offering possesses the same charm that Marilyn Todd's did. Whilst not in the same class as a Saylor or McCullough, it nevertheless possesses that necessary opening requirement to ensure the author's subsequent work is read - it's gripping. <BR>Having just finished McCullough's `The October Horse' the differences in writing techniques are vast, but understandably so. Yet, from the opening prologue's race across the British beach, where treasure is left, (as Caesar hurriedly leaves) to `present day's' arrival of Cato on the Rhine Frontier bearing letters of introduction from Claudius, the opening chapters set the scenes remarkably well. From the start, Scarrow's ability to draw a set is excellent (although his two-dimensional depiction of Bestius as the parade ground centurion leaping straight from boot camp is a trifle painful) and saves some fairly wooden opening characterisation. <BR>So, sufficiently gripping to keep the pages turning.<BR>What evolves is a fast page-turner as we follow the illiterate centurion, Macro, (though he gains literacy through the novel)  and ex-imperial slave optio, Cato, headlong into the Germanic Forest under Vitellius' command and into a waiting trap. One major skirmish and grass crown later we follow the Augusta II eastwards towards the Channel crossing. The arrival of Claudius' freedman, Narcissus (and Macro and Cato's subsequent secret journey with him) introduces a sense of mystery to the novel as both an imperial secret agent and traitor is hinted at within the camp. It is interesting that Scarrow chooses to reveal both sides fairly quickly to the reader and it perhaps loses its sense of intrigue a bit early, but the manoeuvrings of Flavia and Narcissus with Vespasian's somewhat unsubtle and unconcerned attitude does provide interest. Literary requirements dictate Cato has a love affair with Flavia's slave, Lavinia, but it is portrayed somewhat clumsily. <BR>We end as we began, perhaps fittingly, with amarsh, a wagon and a buried treasure in Britain. The climatic battle between the II Augusta and Togodumnus mixed in with Vitellius' intrigue brings it all to a heady conclusion and Scarrow provides excellent perception of the political reality of the failing Julian imperial family and statesmanship in the final denouement between Vespasian and Vitellius all of which neatly concludes the story.<BR>Scarrow's ability to keep the pace moving and take the reader right into the heart of the action to the point of being alongside our erstwhile hero more than makes up for the technical flaws in the novel. Characterisation may be weak, plot certainly isn't, scene setting is excellent and, strangely enough, historical accuracy doesn't really matter. I confess wincing somewhat at the legionaries' vernacular, the crudity lifted straight out of the modern day stereotype and Scarrow's style is somewhat screenplay in effort, but nonetheless it was exciting.... to the point that the easy purist targets in any historical fiction novel weren't worth making at the end of it.<BR>So, characterisation needs some work and subsequent novels will no doubt provide that, but it possesses plot, pace, a gripping edge and Cato and Macro become likeable characters. All of which ensure I will reach for the next instalment. I suspect it will only get better and better.	2003-04-03
US	50323648	R1YZP9SD8ZN08V	0801856620	650423458	History of My Life, Vols. 1-2	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A perfect edition for any shelf	Content aside, (which in itself is fascinating) Trask's fully unabridged translation of Casnova's autobiography is a marvellous effort. Combined with the splendid jacketing, all twelve volumes make this a delightful addition to the bookshelf.	2003-04-01
US	50323648	R3MPBUXAU3LEH0	0684853310	37854528	The October Horse : A Novel of Caesar and Cleopatra	Books	5	9	12	N	N	At the pinnacle of historical fiction	The October Horse has been a long time coming from the proflic pen of McCullough's acknowledged genius. The Masters of Rome series (a fictional history of the fall of the Roman Republic) has firmly placed the author at the very apex of historical fiction and it will be considerable time before anyone produces anything better.<BR>The final book in the series picks up where `Caesar' left off with the ignominious death of Pompeius Magnus, with Caesar's arrival in Alexandria. There are several events that anyone with rudimentary knowledge of the period will anticipate to come in the novel, but the questions that remain to be answered is exactly how McCullough will deal with them. Namely, Caesar and Cleopatra, Caesar's murder, Antony and Cleopatra, and Octavian. Her answer is to focus on the increasing irreconcilability of Caesar's clemency and practical and political necessity. Caesar's failure to understand this, aptly commented on by Octavian as his only flaw being the dismissal of his lictors, may be due to the increasing weariness as he realises the task of empire management is far greater than one man.<BR>The plot is no less than the shaking events that spanned Rome's demise as a republic and rebirth as an empire and I will not move into the details, suffice it to say the historical accuracy and chronology is remarkable.<BR>The only minor issue is with character depiction. If the reader has studied the period in any depth then this is inevitable. Cicero's pusillanimous prevarication raises an eyebrow, given his intellectual lauding, however, the conceited undercurrents are excellent. Cleopatra's summation by Servilia as good at government without an ounce of commonsense seems a trifle harsh. Anthony's excesses have been hugely exaggerated. However, as there must be disagreements over character presentation, so must there be agreement and McCullough's depiction of Octavius, Agrippa, most of  the Republican boni (including Brutus and Porcia) and, most of all, Cato isbrilliant. Cato's unassuming anabasis counters Xenephon's in its stark simplicity and the sympathy the overtly stoical epitome of morality generates is remarkable.<BR>So, we follow Caesar to his inexorable conclusion and discover McCullough doesn't have him utter the famous Shakespearian line, to his genius in selecting Gaius Octavius and the inevitable race towards Augustus' founding of the principate.<BR>The conclusion has been a long time coming and the wait has proven worth it. The entire Masters of Rome series is a magnificent exercise in historical fiction writing at its finest, and it is only a pity there is no intent to move onwards through the Empire. One set of books that is highly recommended and if six stars were available, it would get it.	2003-03-31
US	50323648	R258HK5BYS41I9	0312304889	189747218	The Tribune's Curse: SPQR VII	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Long may Decius continue	I must confess I eagerly awaited the publication of John Maddox Roberts latest SPQR, and other than the fact that the hardback leaf jacket would have us believe the events within happen in 80.BC, when they occur (as the author accurate places them) in 56, the seventh installment of Decius Caecilius Metellus the Younger leaves me glad he decided to continue the SPQR series after such a long absence.<BR>Decius is back in Rome after his trip to Caesar's Gallic camp in `Nobody Loves A Centurion' and is happily married to Caesar's niece, Julia. Hermes has matured and become an effective personal bodyguard (as evidenced by Silvanius' attempt on Decius life). <BR>The opening finds our erstwhile hero in the Forum canvassing for the post of plebian aedile for the coming year, 54BC.It is also the time where Crassus is pushing hard for his province and Parthian War, Pompey is effectively running Rome as senior consul and both Clodius and Milo have called a truce to their open urban warfare, the latter being praetor.<BR>The first eighty pages of JMR's latest novel is spent building a lengthy picture of the political situation of the time, focusing acutely on Decius status as both patron and client as he builds his political career. In some respects you begin to wonder where the plot will take form, then JMR swiftly launches into it as Decius (and most of Rome) witnesses the tribune Ateius Capito calling down a dreadful curse on Crassus as he leaves Rome, but, more importantly, using the secret name of Rome (apparently known only to a privileged few) during his diatribe. Pompey orders Decius to investigate how such Ateius came about such knowledge. Delving into eastern cults epitomised by Eschmoun, Elagabal and Ariston to find the truth, Decius' search swiftly turns into a murder hunt as the politically inviolable Ateius turns up dead in the Tiber bearing the marks of mauling by wild animals. Pompey's instruction to find the murderer(s) before the funeral and potential riot in Rome, leads Decius delving once more into the highest echelons of Rome's politics and provincial mismanagement to find the culprit(s). With the ever helpful physician, Asklepiodes to eventually point him away from the confusion of suggestion and fact to the simple truth, Decius eventually gets his culprit(s) with not much time to spare.<BR>A lengthy aside on his participation in the purification of Rome as the senators race three times round the Servilian walls bearing a huge platform together with his dry wit make this latest adventure for Decius an absolute delight to read. JMR combines mystery with accurate historical fact admirably. As a forerunner of this subgenre he is also peerless in his ability to deliver a fast-paced, gripping page turner.<BR>Highly recommended. I eagerly await the next one.	2003-03-23
US	50323648	R1CDSCLK0U2HF9	0751531359	296851518	An Order for Death (Matthew Bartholomew Chronicles)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Matthew moves on...	Susanna Gregory's seventh and latest murder mystery - 'An Order for Death' - shows a growing consolidation of the political umbrage that encloses Cambridge. More and more of the previous novels are tied in, evidence and narration from them used to complete this mystery. For now, it does not matter, but should the author continue in this way we may get a new story where reading of earlier installments are a pre-requisite.<BR>This latest has Matthew's latest sleuthing finding him firmly paired with the Senior Proctor, Michael, investigating the multiple deaths of the young but brilliant upand coming nominalist Raricus, Kyrkus, his and his junior proctor Walcote. The mystery uses several potential motives behind the murders, from philosophy to desperation to both insitigate and conclude each death.<BR>Gregory has done a fair amount of research into the patristic debate between nominalism and realism that gripped the universities of Oxford and Cambridge (providing the link to the former with the arrival of Michael's political nemesis and his faithful follower, Richard Stanmore) so that intellectual debate is used as both motive and focus for this excellent novel.<BR>We are introduced to multiple conspiracies in this novel with Walcote's shadier meetings at St Radegast's (a nunnery masquerading as a brothel which provides an excellent additional plotline for Mathilde and Matthew to delve into) revealing a new political powerbase in Cambridge which gives Gregory the chance to truly bring Michael into play as a somewhat different sleuth in his own right. Portrayed as fiercely intellectual, he is somewhat impetuous and still requires Bartholomew's quiet intropsection to solve the murders that begin to pile up. From the initial murder during a riot, all the way to the riot at the nominalist debate where we reach a conclusion, `An Order For Death' is firmly settling Susanna Gregory amongst the elite of murder mystery authors, not the least through her wonderful desciption oflife in thirteenth century Cambridge. I look forward to many more installments.	2003-03-12
US	50323648	R12M3IIDLLCHA	0312275382	860182791	Gods and Legions: A Novel of the Roman Empire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Improving...	Fords second Roman historical novel is somewhat improved over the first. I must confess I know nothing of the history of Julian the Apostate so I cannot comment on the historical validity within the three hundred seventy odd hardback pages. Nevertheless, as a work of fiction this possesses that page turning quality that makes it hard to put down.<BR>The book deals with the life of Julian, from his exile in Athens, to his Caesar-esque re-subjugation of Gaul, his split with Constantius, march on Constantinople, fortunate elevation to emperor and subsequent life until his murder, whilst campaigning against the Persian Sapor, by the novels narrator, Caesarius.<BR>The first part is entirely devoted to his time in Gaul and the characterisation is excellent. We sympathise with a young man struggling to prove himself and Rome against a decadently portrayed Emperor Constantius in admirable fashion, overcoming both hardship and difficult administrative problems to restablish Romes primacy in Gaul and along the Rhine. Forced by events into conflict with the Emperor he races across the Western Empire to eventually claim the purple and the second part deals with his time as imperator, his apostacy and eventual obsession with defeating Persia.<BR>Gods & Legions is fast paced, flows well and Fords ability to recreate, in particular, battle scenes is what raises the novel immensely. Where it falls down, in this case, is at the point where Julian ascends to the purple, declares his apostacy and then his personal allegiance to Mithras. Ford spent half the book building a solid character with whom you could understand why the motives and personality of the man made him act as he did. Then, suddenly, he reveals all to be a faade and becomes an entirely different character. Whilst this shift in characterisation may be necessary, what Ford doesnt do is gradually shift the characterisation so we understand that shift. Instead, we get almost a quick synopsis of events over a few months and the new Julian character is presented to us. It breaks the flow of characterisation leaving us somewhat  puzzled as reconciliation of the new and old Julian, particularly given the fact that Ford goes to some lengths to stress his thinking intelligence, proves extremely difficult.<BR>However, unfully-explored shift in character aside, Fords second novel is an excellent read that can easily claim to be a one-sitting so much so does it move with a fast gripping pace. I look forward to more from the pen of this promising author.	2003-03-11
US	50323648	R1R6SHVSPXQOC7	034076886X	638316411	Last Rites (Marcus Corvinus Mysteries)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Another Vestal Offering	It seems to be an unspoken agreement amongst Roman historical murder mystery authors to have a murder mystery involving the Vestal Virgins. Wishart goes one step further, blatantly drawing parallels to the Bona Dea scandal of 63 which tends to misdirect the reader who is aware of that historical event, perhaps deliberately. So, with the inevitable comparisons to JMR and Davis, amongst others, aside, Marcus Corvinus moves into his latest novel with an easy familiarity.<BR>Last Rites deals with another consular-level murder, Marcus being called in to discreetly investigate the death of the Vestal Cornelia during the Bona Dea rites. A reluctance for the senior protagonists to admit to anything that would indicate scandal leads us a dance through the subsequent suicide of Marcus Lepidus -Cornelia's childhood friend, and the deaths of Cornelia's maid Niobe, a fluteplayer who wasn't present at the rite, Thalia, the original assassin, and an unfortunate member of the Watch, Chiro. There is the usual mix of accompanying characters, headed by the senatorial family comprising Marcus Lepidus Senior, his overtly promiscuous daughter Lepida and the fateful Marcus Lepidus Junior. The tight-lipped Vestal community headed by Junia Torquata and the immediate affiliates of the consul Galba all serve ensure this is one murder mystery that has Marcus delving into the highest echelons of Roman society. However Marcus spends the few days running up to Saturnalia picking his way through Rome's murky politics and assorted colorful characters with a dry wit that makes for fluid reading.<BR>All this, mixed in with Marcus' daily home trials, epitomised in this novel by a very amusing episodic dealings with Perilla's latest fad of a water clock and the delightful continuing development of the character of Bathyllus, means that Last Rites is another excellent offering from Wishart.<BR> I must confess I managed to read White Murder before this one and this novel confirms Wishart's tendency to use Rufia Perilla as Marcus' `sounding board' to both recap the day's events and to outline theories. It is faintly annoying as it implies the author is keen to ensure we don't miss a single clue and, rather than allowing us to theorize ourselves, dictates that we follow Corvinus' thought process to the letter.<BR>That aside, what Wishart does so well is mix murder and Roman politics so well, spending considerable time providing plausible motive for each crime, which is what makes Marcus Corvinus' installments so fascinating. Highly recommended.	2003-02-28
US	50323648	R389JNVQKFUOU7	0385336608	817652979	The Gates of Rome (Emperor, Book 1)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	A promising historical fantasy	Iggulden's `Emperor: The Gates of Rome' is a well written piece of historical fiction. Loosely based around historical events at the time of the Social War and dealing with the adolescent Gaius Julius Caesar, it pulses with an energy that makes it hard to put down. This review is somewhat different to the intended one on reaching the final chapter, for as a piece of historical fiction is was littered with so many historical inaccuracies to keep the plot moving that it became (to one familiar with the true history of Marius, Sulla and Gaius Julius Caesar) immensely disappointing. For example, the chronological events surrounding 90 - 82 are mixed, reversed and placed in such a way to be glaringly inaccurate. History also has Marius as desirous of the Mithridatic command, Iggulden reverses this. All this was saved, however on reading the author's historical note where he cheerfully explains the reasons why he `compressed these years'. Historical accuracy is sacrificed for `dramatic purposes'.<BR>The opener of what must become a trilogy, at the least, is presented in a somewhat episodic manner, each designed to be a focal point in the development of Gaius and Marcus (whom I suspect is Marcus Antonius? - the Mark Anthony of Shakespearian legend). These episodes (almost moralistic anecdotes) invariably mean both have to prove themselves in some manner in order to learn some lesson, and, by the end, the format of each has become fairly regular in style.<BR>So, we move from boyhood 'escapades' to gladiatorial training by Renius, to the defence of the the farmstead, then to the move to Rome and acceptance by Marius (after a boxing match). From here Gaius participates in Marius' Triumph, learning more valuable lessons on the way, whilst Marcus leaves for Africa (fighting most of the ship's complement on the way) to understand what it means to lead an army. Inevitable love escapades aside, it culminates in Sulla's sack of Rome and Gaius' `exile' to Greece where Marcus follows, setting us up neatly for the next book.<BR>It does not compare to McCullough's brilliant sequence, headed by `The First Man in Rome' but, whilst a trifle formulaic in presentation, it is fluid and precise in both characterisation and plot, providing sufficient thrills and twists as we watch these two young men grow up in Republican Rome to ensure purchase of the next installment.<BR>I suspect it will only get better and better.	2003-02-16
US	50323648	R83SZZRJHF2MG	0415102928	796552489	The Fall of the Roman Republic (Lancaster Pamphlets)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A succinct overview of a vital period	Shotter provides a concise and up-to-date (at the time, bearing in mind it is nearly a decade old now) look at the Fall of the Roman Republic that is invaluable to any student of the period. Indeed it is useful as a general guide to the general reader. Commencing with an explanation of the governemnt of Rome and detailing the concept of the res publica he makes it clear that the republic was divided amongst what he terms the 'aristocratic class' and the plebian. He makes the sweeping statement that the downfall of the republic was caused by the growth of empire and talks of the Social War, the Gracchi and enfranchisement, sweeping on through Marius' reforms to construct a professional standing army to the inevitable conflict between military brilliance as shown under Sulla and oligarchic steadiness as employed by the Senate. A chapter on Pompey focuses on Cicero and Clodius' involvement in the Bona Dea in 61 and Shotter concludes with three chapters on the first triumvirate between Caesar, Pompey and Crassus, Caesar's dictatorship and the second triumvirate of Octavian, Anthony and Lepidus culminating in the battle of Actium in 31. He confirms that this battle is the decisive watershed in the move from republic to empire - though a modern-designated pivotal piece of history. In some respects this admission leads us to realise that whilst modern scholarship neatly splits the Roman domination of the Mediterranean into Republic and Empire, for Rome itself there would have been no such distinction. Indeed, one could argue that the premise of the book is indeed artificial by nature. However, it does allow Shotter to boundary his period of Roman history to 31 and discuss more fundamentally the nature of political power of the time and its shift from oligarchy to principate.<BR>This concise yet fluid discussion on the shift in Rome's power is worth reading as both a general introduction and a more interesting discussion on the nature of political power.	2003-02-08
US	50323648	R1P8IB4ZE6ZM0Y	0312280750	785769952	Decipher	Books	4	26	35	N	N	Eagerly await the next book	I picked this based on the cover and its premise quite by chance, just before hopping on a train, and was instantly hooked to the point of nearly missing my stop. It was just its sheer 700-plus page length that prevented it becoming a one-sitting read but 48 hours later I put it aside having been treated to an excellent story.<BR>Stel Pavlou has written a fast paced techno-thriller in the style of Michael Crichton and is every bit as good as his contemporary. From the opening snapshots where both intellectual theory and inexorable natural reality are brought in tandem with political unease and coporate greed, Pavlou's novel is as scientific in its Clancy-esque presentation as it is exciting in its Cussler-esque adventurousness. Mixing Atlantean myths, flood deluge myths, Carbon-60, Antartica and a twelve thousand year solar pulsar cycle he brings together a plotline that rapidly rolls towards its inevitable conclusion deep under the Antarctic ice as the intrepid adventurers battle Golem-created nanobots who are fighting for their own right to survive.<BR>Initially, the story of the Rola Corporation's race to find Carbon-60 it develops into following a group of scientists who realise that its presence at ancient sites is has more to do with the ancient flood myths and Atlantis civilisation than thought possible. A race against time to decode the pre-cuniform text and understand a global machine that is responding to the Sun's 12,000 year pulsar cycle culminates in a riveting read that take you to the cutting edge of fictional technology, semiotics, archeology and solar physics in a manner that is exhilarating.<BR>The multitude of characters, bringing scientists and corporate decision-makers of all personalities together, creates a situation where you can see multiple tiers of concerns - of personal gain, corporate gain, political gain and the eventual global gain - that assail each group as they work (sometimes in tandem sometimes not) in their varying geographical locations. <BR>The only issues with the novel are firstly the narrow focus on the specific characters. Given the literal world shaking and destructive events there is little or no mention of general human reaction. It is almost as though the assorted scientific cast are the only people experiencing the phenomenon which gives a detrimental sense of displacement to the novel. Secondly, in some respects it gets overly technical in its science to the point of halting the flow somewhat and thirdly, the lengthy denouement at Poseidon city descends into the oft-used saving the world with a second to spare scenario.<BR>Nevertheless, this was an excellent read on that train journey.	2003-01-31
US	50323648	R21FXN60Y05TNT	0415107547	233681822	The Antonines: The Roman Empire in Transition	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A good general history of the Antonines	`The Antonines' is a necessary work on the second century A.D. by a respected Roman historian.<BR>Part One of this work by Michael Grant gives a brief presentation of the salient imperial powers of the time, Antonius Pius (138-161), Marcus Aurelius (161-180), Lucius Verus (161-169) and Commodus (180-192) in a concise manner. However, it is as it reads - a nicely presented synopsis of Roman imperial history from 138 to 192 A.D.<BR>Part One's opening chapter provides the reader with details of Antonius Pius' actions, a diagnostic on his character to explain those actions - leaning heavily on the potential explanations for the Pius appellation - Aurelius' conservatism, Veres ineffectiveness and Commodus dramatic impact on the empire to a degree not seen since Nero. Moving swiftly onto Marcus Aurelius, Grant summarizes his reign as coping \\"with appalling problems with a conscientiousness that raised him to the top class of rulers.\\" Touching on Aurelius' time spent on the Rhine frontier, his famous Meditations, conflict with Avidius Cassius, his wife Faustina and his state of health, Grant portrays Marcus Aurelius as a ruler who engendered a great deal of respect, a respect that swiftly disappears with the biography of Commodus. <BR>After a brief note on the eternal critcism of Aurelius for having his son succeed him,  (there is an insistence by the author on the idea of hereditary dynastic succession in Imperial Rome which doesn't bear much proof particularly  as two pages later he states that \\"the senate, though conscious that the selection of the `best man' had ceased to have any reality...\\" thus implying there was no concept)  Grant sweeps into his biography of Commodus. Grant's commentary on Commodus highlights him as a ruler who provided a strong and favourable impression in the first few years of his reign, but later biographies depict him as a drunkard, debauched from the earliest years, and focus on his unseemly gladiatorial enthusiasm all of which leads to serious administrative disaster for the empire. Eventually, as Grant states: his `wild self-indulgence and quasi-mystical autocratic religiosity' led to his murder.<BR>Part Two deals with two themes of the Antonine Age: literature and art. <BR>The first is split into three sections: Latin, Greek and Christian writings and is no more than a brief biography and synopis of the extant works of each. Moving from first rate (as the author terms it) authors such as Fronto, Lucian, Aurelius, Pausanias Justin to other authors including the Second Sophists, the Apologists, Gnostic writers Grant gives what is fundamentally a brief history, notable works and precis of the major writings of each in each section. <BR>The second focuses on the art and architecture of the Antonine period, from busts and statues to theatres, expanded by many pictures and Grant concludes with a chapter on the Antonine Age.<BR>The work comes through as a neat biographical history of the Antonine Emperors and the leading literay and artistic names of the period. As such this is an excellent starter book for anyone interested in the period and a useful reference book to students more familiar with the period.	2003-01-23
US	50323648	R19MCH4VBQOXNR	0061050318	795110281	The Mystic Rose	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Lawhead's best...	Given the normal high quality of Lawhead's work, the final part of the Celtic Crusades trilogy has ended somewhat disappointingly. Lawhead's prose style, as evidenced in the Arthur sextet or the Song of Albion trilogy, is usually precise, sweeping in its sense of the epic, and a delight to read. The Mystic Rose proves extremely weak from an author who normally provides wonderful stories. Inevitably, you cannot help comparing it to the Sarentium Mosaic dulogy and the gulf between the two is vast.<BR>The Mystic Rose is the story of the vengeful Caitriona and her somewhat awkward half-sister Alethea who seek to avenge Duncan's murder at the hands of the Templar Commander de Bracineaux. After buying a Norse bodyguard from the Byzantine jails she steals a letter purporting to reveal the location of the Mystic Rose (unfortunately, guessable as to what it really is fairly quickly) and disappears off after seeing Brother Andrew (as did Murdo and Duncan before her) to steal it. Alethea's abduction leads ultimately to the prize and gives a conclusion to the `modern-day' plot that runs alongside.Taking the trilogy as a whole, it is fairly simple to understand how the intended cryptic early nineteenth century side story is going to conclude so it becomes more a case of seeing how the story will unfold. Unfortunately, this is where The Mystic Rose falls down, unlike the Black Rood or the Iron Lance.<BR>Caitriona's voyage (after Duncan's somewhat hasty dispatch) comes across as a series of fundamentally unbelievable sketches. Peaking with Prince Hasan's fantastical palace in mid-Spain and barely saved with the eventual conclusion on a thinly-veiled Avalon-esque community, the novel provides minimal excitement. The problem is further enhanced by all of the major characters either being two-dimensional or subject to so many quick personality changes as to be implausible. Alethea's transformation from irritating sister to pious nun is untenable;  Cait's constant stubbornness and Rognvald's stoical protector mentality together with the overly brutish de Bracineaux provide a bewildering mix of characters who do not respond from situation to situation with any kind of uniformity.<BR>Stephen Lawhead is one of the finest fantasy authors writing today and his name usually guarantees a purchase. As a result, expectations of his work are higher than normal. However, whilst the Iron Lance commenced the trilogy so well, the Mystic Rose has ended it disappointingly.	2003-01-13
US	50323648	R1KLH7NBDJTB9L	0312866097	561606943	Icehenge	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A commentary  on the science of historical perceptivity	Having saturated myself in Robinson's excellent Mars Trilogy several years ago, Icehenge ended up being one of those purchases that sat on my shelf for some time. Picking Icehenge up several years after its publication has not detracted at all, as the author's easy creation of a realistic solar society still remains on course and, given the advances in genetics over recent years, all the more plausible.<BR>Icehenge is a story set in three parts told by three connected people over several hundred years. Robinson seeks to take archaeology into the future to demonstrate that the provision of primary written evidence is inevitably biased and  that written evidence of what we will do will become too distorted and too historically complex for our future generations to be in any better position to understand than our archaeological techniques can today. <BR>The opener, narrated by Emma Weil tells of her unwitting participation in a somewhat idealistic attempt by the underground Mars Starship Association to set off for pastures new beyond our solar system. Her love affair is woven in as both a motivator and an explanation for the links between Weil and Davydov, giving us a story of a group of people determined to leave the solar system to colonize pastures new.  Heavily influenced by the political situation on Mars at the time it culminates in Emma's return to Mars to be part of the uprising and final destruction of New Houston. A voyage in both the physical and mental sense, part I is intensely reflective and demonstrates the struggle between idealism and reality, between  fact and perception.<BR>A `footnote' to the opening text is Davydov's desire to leave a megalithic message and this is picked up in second story, narratted by (at the time) maverick archaeologist Hjalmar Nederland who was present at the fall of New Houston. His expedition to uncover this lost city of the rebellion and question the official version as denoted in the Aimes Report is a personal odyssey thatculminates in his discovery of a truth that contradicts the official version, yet doesn't upset the political apple cart. He then moves on to be a leading part of the IceHenge discovery and the links between both it and Emma Weil. <BR>Whereas Weil's journey is from `good citzen' to rebel, Nederland's is the opposite - though mainly in the intellectual community. What is ironic is that it is the understanding of Weil's last days and transition that sends Nederland unwittingly back to the path of officialdom, rather than truth.<BR>This is further continued in the third story, that of Edmond Doya, the great-grandon of Nederland whose passion for all things archeological and his upbringing off-planet forces him to question the reality of Emma Weil's testament, Nederland's explanation for Icehenge and, in doing so, the perception of history. His search leads him to Pluto where a final dating methodology is established seeming to give a final proof to his findings and concluding several historical records and theories. Robinson throws in a final thought with Doya's colleague advancing a further theory to close the cycle begun by Emma Weil some many years ago.<BR>As well as being a well written, plausible exposition of a humar solar society in the distant future, what Robinson's Icehenge achieves is to question our perception of history, of how history is written and how the need to understand our origins can cause those explorers or seekers of historical truth to make assumptions and give explanations which, though plausible, are created through suggestion.	2002-12-12
US	50323648	R2V9UNLP64AR7R	0061020575	769651317	Well of Darkness (The Sovereign Stone Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interesting story	Picking up a Weis and Hickman novel provides that easy familiarity of plot, characterisation and narrative technique that is fundamentally flawless. I have found few authors with whom there is no need to get to grips with the novel, rather be instantly pulled into a totally plausible world.<BR>The Sovereign Stone trilogy opener attempts to take us through a microcosmic world of Vinnengael and its portals from the viewpoint of the traditionally evil protagonists. The anti-heroes, Gareth, Dagnarus, Silwyth and an assortment of `henchmen' are displayed in a manner to explain how they arrive at the point of choosing the dark path to obtain their powers. Weis and Hickman have portrayed the stepping towards evil through the somewhat safe manner of an abandoned childhood, jealousy, character weakness and a driving ambition to be acknowledged rather than as a force for absolute evil as denoted in the DragonLance series with Takhisis. One characterisation jars slightly; unfortunately that of the traditional 'ragged child to position of magical power' in many fantasy novels. Gareth's rising magical prowess, excellence at Void magic suggests a precocious intelligence, one the authors are at pains to stress during Part I where his and Dagnarus' ten year old characters are defined. However, given this intelligence his constant capitulation, in in the face of a conflict where intelligence must surely send him on a different route, is a trifle irksome. You leave the first novel wondering how he has managed to grow so powerful he can destroy rivers where nothing so far suggests he has (l)earned this.<BR>The other faintly worrisome aspect to this attempt to write from the anti-hero stance, is the fact that the forces for good are displayed as nave, foolish, despairing and, at the end, so pathetic that any pathos is immediately lost. The entire characterisation tends to come across `as way out of depth' and, thus, entirely loses all credibility.<BR>However, the novel is also all wecome to expect from the current masters of the fantasy genre: brilliantly written, technically excellent and grippingly spun. The danger must be that all characters are sub-consciously compared to those on Krynn, but the authors effortlessly spin away from them so we now have credible bickering elves, nomadic dwarves without a mountain in sight, a new race of orken who sail the superstitious seas and only one dragon in sight who comes to rescue the new keeper of time, the new Astinus.<BR>As I said, the comparisons to Krynn must come and it is no surprise to find that this new world doesn't need those images. The Well of Darkness is a story of a second-born prince, Dagnarus, who seeks ultimate power and achieves it through the forbidden magic of the Void learned by a childhood `whipping boy', Gareth, who constantly must be his conscience, his physical pain carrier. Subverted by the politics of the elf, Silwyth, loving the deeply tragic Valura, aided by the blinded `unhorsed' Dunner and the lure of absolute power, Dagnarus uses everything necessary to achieve absolute power (which corrupts absolutely) through the creation of himself as a subverted Dominion Lord, the death of the King and his final battle with Helmos, his brother. <BR>We end with an uncertain future for both good and evil and the promise of a titanic struggle that ensures purchase of the next installment. <BR>Then again, it wouldn't be written by the masters of the fantasy genre, if it didn't....	2002-12-02
US	50323648	R31B8GURE5MLAL	0340771283	679540012	White Murder (Marcus Corvinus Mysteries)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not Corvinus' best	David Wishart's Marcus Corvinus series has developed well. However this latest offering is a little formulaic. There is a tendancy for Marcus to spend a day sleuthing and then to summarise what he's learnt to Perilla - you get the mild impression it's to ensure the reader hasn't missed anything.<BR>The premise of this installment - a murder of the White's chariot first team Leader, Pegasus, right under Marcus' nose - is to enter the murky underworld of Rome's Circus Maximus, chariot racing, racing-throwing and the factions of Green, Red and Blue, White. Wishart creates a credible picture of life at the races, building a suitable tight-lipped and close-bunched set of teams and fans and Corvinus has to pick his way through lot to establish motive. Everyone has one, of course, and it appears that for all the expressions of closed doors each team is more closely interwoven than would be evident at first glance.<BR>Glee clubs, personal feuds, elopement and Bathyllus' love-sick state of mind all provide another fun outing in Marcus Corvinus' Rome.<BR>It is written as well as ever. We are, by now, very comfortable with the main characters, yet the plot and the denouement are, perhaps, not as complex as they could be ; with the result the strong suspicions of who the culprit(s) is/are from the opening chapters end up being confirmed. So, not Marcus' best outing, but, as a series, long may Corvinus continue...	2002-11-08
US	50323648	R2PQLIUR7GB9ZQ	0812551389	705935030	The Skystone (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Must-Read Interpretation	My father bought me this book when it was published back in 96 and it delighted me at the time. Ever since it has burgeoned into an entirely credible explanation of the Aurthur myth. Indeed, the mutation of the Roman town of Camulodunum to Camulod, to Camelot is, despite it fictional setting, one of the potentially better explanations for the historical fact that I have ever heard ventured.<BR>Historical plausibility aside, Jack Whyte's Skystone is one of the finest Arthurian historical series available.  His attention to historical detail weaves superbly in with the legend and romance of Arthurian chivalry espoused by Thomas Malory to produce a story that is as thrilling as it is magical.<BR>The Skystone is the story of two Romans - the grizzled Publius Varrus and his ex-commander - Caiu Britannicus who remain in Britain in the 4th century A.D. as the Roman legions withdraw with Stilicho towards the heart of the troubled empire. Against this ucertain and turbulent backdrop these two erstwwhile bastions of nobility found a colony called Camulod to safekeep the Ramon-British peoples from the threatening presence on the Gaulish and Nordic mainlands. Varrus tells his story as a detailed reminiscence, culminating in the foundation of Camulod and the discovery of the skystone - a meteorite - from which he crafts both a dagger and a sword - to become the famous Exaclibur in later installments. Throughout we see a people struggling for survival, with great organisational skills, heart and courage as they attempt to reconcile the ordered Roman way of life with the newly reimposed celtic lifestyle. A firm rock in a sea of change, into which a sword is placed that symbolises hope for the future generations.<BR>Jack Whyte has lent a wholly plausible historical air to the Arthur legends to the degree that it could become a history as it offers more reason over established historical scholarship. Fictional it may be, but entirely credible it remains. This is one interpretation that should be read.	2002-11-05
US	50323648	R2C2QG3G53LMNC	0312283121	333487848	The Lost King of France: A True Story of Revolution, Revenge, and DNA	Books	5	40	42	N	N	An unputdownable piece of historical non-fiction	It is a rare piece of historical non-fiction that is so gripping it becomes a one-sitting read, as Deborah Cadbury's book does. As Alison Weir's comments on the hardback edition state, it is: `stunningly written'.<BR>The book opens with a present day mystery of a heart that is purported to be that of Louis XVII of France - the boy-king - that is (dis)proved by DNA. Rather than giving us the answer immediately the author then tells the story of the downfall of the French Monarchy at the hands of the sans-culottes and the leaders of the French Revolution. Told from the royal perspective, centering on Marie Antoniette, Louis XVI, Louis-Charles (Dauphin and future Louis XVII) and their other immediate family and associates, we are given a story full of immense pathos, where the royal family - clearly depicted as undone by previous French royal excesses and a failing economy - are treatedly brutally at the hands of the revolutionaries. Marie Antoniette is depicted as a nave young woman of excess, then as a great mother, ultimately as aa Queen of France whose suffering reflects much of the Revolution. Louis XVI is presented as a monarch whose stoical steadfastness to uphold the good of his country costs him the constitution and ultimately his life, Louis-Charles as a boy wise beyond his years - clearly intimated as potentially a great french monarch.<BR>The first part of the book is taken up with the history of the french royal family from the moment Maria-Antonia of Austria marries the young Dauphin and follows them as they are vilified, blamed and ultimately killed for the problems assailing France. The story is told from the royal perspective, Cadbury engendering great sympathy with the family, possibly to the extent of presenting a somewhat biased view of the revolutionaries as a brutal regime whose leaders use the anger of the mob to further their own political gain. Drawing mainly on personal testimonies of Clery who served the family during their Parisian imprisonment at Tullieres, The Tower and the Temple, Marie-Therese (daughter of  Marie-Antoniette and Louis) and Madame Tourzel, we are given the emotional history of a key point in European history where the author gives a very focused view on the ordeals and depravations of Louis XVI, Marie Antoniette, and finally, in a lengthy section, on Louis-Charles mental and physical abuse. Part 1 ends with the death of Louis-Charles according to the official version given at the time.<BR>Part 2 deals with the twenty year period of revolution, Robespierre and Napoleon, culminating in Marie-Therese's (as the sole direct survivor) reentry into Paris as the Queen with the newly crowned Louis XVIII and subsequent re-fleeing. At this point history gives rise to the legend that Louis-Charles did not die (as Dr Pelletan's autopsy initially stated) but rather was substituted with another child. The primary mover of this legend came from Madame Simon, the wife of the man depicted as responsible for much of Louis-Charles systematic abuse who claimed they had smuggled Louis-Charles out in a wicker basket. What resulted was a procession of Dauphin-claimants, the most prominent being Naundorff, Bruneau and Hervagault each of whom claimed to be the long-lost surviving Louis-Charles - to the evident distress of Marie-Therese. As each of these were found guilty of being imposters eventually the rumours and claimants dwindled until twentieth century forensic and, eventually, DNA, technology enabled scientists to coduct tests on the original family, the notable claimants and the preserved heart that Pelletan had taken from the dead boy during the autopsy.<BR>This leads us back to the opening statement of the book and the resulting conclusions, based on DNA, seem to give a resolution to the story.<BR>What the author has done is present a deeply sympathetic view of the lives of Louis XVI, Marie-Antoniette and Louis-Charles, perhaps seeking to redress the perceptions of them as given in many political articles of the time, and finally, give a satisfactory ending to a mystery that has echoed over the past two hundred years. She has done it in a way that, conclusions aside, is immensely readable and interesting.	2002-10-31
US	50323648	R1KSJGP9CIX9NT	0786708530	332293457	The House of Death: A Mystery of Alexander the Great	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good Alexandrian mystery	Given Paul Doherty's prolific pen, this is the first of his many mysteries I have read. I must confess that I found this enjoyable but nothing makes it outstanding compared to contemporaries such as Davis, Saylor, Gregory et al.<BR>The novel brings in a new sleuth - Telamon, boyhood friend of Alexander, physician extraordinaire - who uses his intellect to move through Alexander's encampment off the Hellespont to pinpoint a murderer who is killing both guides and physicians with some alacrity ensuring that a single winged celtic style dagger is left behind with each body together with quotes from the Iliad designed to unsettle Alexander's mind. In itself, this seems straightforward but Doherty moves beyond the plain murder mystery, taking us into the politics of the time as Alexander prepares to face both Arsites and Memnon, generals of Darius to weave a credible timeline and powerful motivation behind all of the actions. We are shifted from Alexander's camp to Darius palace to witness the thrust and counter of political intrigue as each seeks to confuse and misdirect the other.<BR>In some respects, the place and method of this murder mystery echoes JMR's 'Nobody Loves A Centurion' with the culprit picking off people in a camp where politics is all important. Alexander's failure to gain good auspices, the spying and counterspying of multiple people all mingle to give both motive and opportunity to a range of people. Part of Telamon's problem is to discern precisely who is (or not) a spy and which side they are on.<BR>Telamon is eventually enlists a red-haired Theban ex-slave, ex-handmaiden of Athena who becomes his assistant and, ultimately, provides the vital link to help Telamon discover who Naiphat, and therefore the culprit, is.<BR>Doherty's grasp of the time is good, his characterization excellent (though Telamon seems overly dry occasionally) and his ability to confound the reader makes this an enjoyable read. The reason this only gets four stars is because allthe protagonists have such good alibis that becomes inevitable that only one person can be the guilty party several chapters before the denouement. As such it ends up being more confirmation of strong reader's suspicions, rather than a real surprise.<BR>However, this is enjoyable enough to ensure I read the next Alexander mystery from Doherty's pen.	2002-10-28
US	50323648	RGJTIFJXTOM12	0727858610	512247499	Dark Horse	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A tightly focused mystery	The eighth installment of Todd's fine murder mystery series has Claudia running for the island of Cressia, to the villa of Leo Orbilio, cousin of Marcus, before she gets either convicted or murdered for blatant horse doping. During a period of a week an assortment of characters, including the unctuous Shamshi, the perfectionist Nikias, the aging Volcar, the `ice queen' Silvia, the enigmatic Clio, the somewhat `artistic' Saunio and a somewhat innocent dolphin flow through the villa which is undergoing an expensive refurbishment that is being financed by several people (We do see a way out for Claudia's perpetual financial difficulty with a chance for her to increase her famous Seferius wine yield in later novels) <BR>The murders of Saunio's assistant Bulio and then Leo coupled with Todd's ensurement that every other character (save Drusilla the cat and the dolphin) has a motive to commit the deed, intermingled with a heavily-threaded plot line touching on the mythology of Jason, Medea and Circe, means that, unlike the previous Dream Boat, it is not quite so simple to make an educated guess as to the villain(s). Another technique that Todd has introduced over the recent additions to the series is a setup of periodic mini-chapters where we can glean an anonymous insight to the mind of the murderer(s). In this case it is very 'mythical' and it is, perhaps, a little laboured as the soliloquies lend themselves an almost supernatural evil air which doesn't quite fit with the period.<BR>Nevertheless, Claudia rips through the entire bunch, (she always manages to get knocked out in the process of most of her investigations), captured by pirates and eventually Marcus has to turn up to help. The continuing fencing between the pair is mildly frustrating and you begin to hope their relationship might develop further over future novels.<BR>It is Claudia's first trip outside Italy, albeit not very far from the province of Illyricum, and she moves neatly. The nature of this latifundia setting echoes Saylor's Arm of Nemesis, but retaining the culprits within a localized geographical area gives a chance for typical murder mystery characterization to develop and this becomes a tautly focused whodunnit.<BR>I must confess I hope  Marilyn Todd keeps writing about her delightful heroine for many years to come.	2002-10-21
US	50323648	R20SYWX4GL4CMY	0801439523	171309626	Ermengard of Narbonne and the World of the Troubadours (Conjunctions of Religion and Power in the Medieval Past)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	A heavyweight insight into twelfth century Narbonne	The parenthesized title gives a better explanation of the topic of this book, rather than the somewhat romanticized main title. What the author has done is provide an acutely focused eye on a small geographical place and period, namely that of the eleventh and twelfth centuries and the region known, at the time, as Occitania. A multi-parted text, multi-chaptered discourse where Cheyette uses Ermengard of Narbonne as a focal point to discuss the secular and spiritual power of a region that played an important part in Mediterannean history. The implication is that it was a microcosm of the funtioning social, political and commercial whole that was modern day France and Spain. Nevertheless, a history of (based on very little extant documentation) Ermerngard's influence as the ruler of Narbonne in both local and spiritual dealings; and a greater part (akin to Eleanor of Aquitane or Stephania) in the history of the region from the situation at the time of her inheritance, her wedding to Alphonse of Toulouse and subsequent rise to power through alliance, right through to Raymond V and crusade - all serve to demonstrate the power held by heiresses during the Middle Ages and the reality of their rule as they struggled with the Church for ascendancy. This gives rise to a fuller history of the regions of Narbonne, Montpellier <BR>What Cheyette does so well is to display the lot of the common man, the realities of daily life within the feudal system, the monastic regime and the commerical and political shifting partnerships that all occurred - fundamentally, it would seem to be argued - to ensure that general accession of new generations would be smoother.<BR>This piece of scholarship is not so heavy that it becomes unreadable, but it does go into far more depth about the sheer detail of life than the romantic title might suggest Ultimately, it succeeds for it and any student interested in a more precise look at the region and the period would be well advised to read this.	2002-10-21
US	50323648	R193M7OO2A8CAJ	0385502818	127261313	The Crusader: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable but flawed	`The Crusader' is set during the seventh crusade (1249-54)and the novel makes extensive use of the `good friend' narrator technique with the aging Cistercian monk, Lucas, reminiscing on his time spent `exorcising' Francisco de Montcada who returned from Outremer. <BR>From the memory of this aspiring bishop we hear the story of Francisco, his cousins Andres and Isabella from shortly before both young men's calling to the Cross to the present. A recounting of the aspiring knights' training and youthful exuberance swiftly give way to the reality of war in the last crusade. Through sieges and massacres the young knight is forced to witness at first hand, the horror and bloody reality of medieval warfare with the knights of Calatrava. <BR>As the novel develops our sympathy for Brother Lucas lessens and that for Francsico deepens. Brother Lucas continually espouses his own intelligence, sees himself as a heavyweight therapist, and all the while, manages to appear condescending those around him who are, perhaps, better versed in the reality of the medieval world with their first hand experiences of it. Whilst he is sincere in his beliefs, his actions sometimes suggest otherwise.<BR>The only minor `complaint' with this novel is the decidedly standard portrayal of medieval Europe and the Holy Land and whilst we are told that we are in Spain before the Crusade there is no sensation of such. In fact we could really be anywhere in medieval Europe such a low priority is given to place within the impression of the novel. There is a plausible attempt to provide a narration that effectively psycho-analyses the main protagonist and his relationships both secular and spiritual, but, on the whole you come away feeling that greater depth existed to be explored.<BR>There is a very good contemporary source for the period in de Joinville and Villehardouin and, having read these historical accounts, there are some understandable discrepancies in this novel. However, given this is a work offiction, this does not detract from what is, overall, a good read on a long flight or train journey or holiday.	2002-10-10
US	50323648	RT80PSFBQXG9R	0330484508	277157469	A Crown of Lights (Merrily Watkins Mysteries)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A fitting crown	Merrily Watkins is fast becoming the unassuming thinking person's sleuth. By her own admission, imperfect yet all the more realistic for it, she slides around the inevitable fanaticism that permeates A Crown of Lights and with almost Poirot-esque subtlet teases out the facts and nudges the forces of good and evil back into balance.<BR>The latest Rickman offering doesn't disappoint. He serves up a tingling read of an abandoned church that is portrayed as a vital reclaim to pagan religions. Robin and Betty Thorogood are the unsuspecting new owners of the abandoned church in Old Hindwell that holds its own dark history. Coupled with the sinister interweavings of the Local People and a bitter blood feud between two brothers, Merrily clashes with the fanatical Father Ellis and the antagonistic Ned Bain as each struggle to assert their religious dominance over the sleeping dragon that is warded by five churches. Excellent supporting roles from Merrily's daughter Jane, 'Irene' and Gomer Parry lend to a tale of immensely thrilling supernatural forces and the author has produced another stunning story. A must-read	2002-10-08
US	50323648	R2REAB6ADWF12T	0727858181	746551636	Dream Boat (The Claudia series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Claudia sweeps through	Marilyn Todd's somewhat irreverant heroine, Claudia Seferius, is at her acid-tongued, fast-fighting best in this latest installment. Once more Claudia trips out of Rome after landing her infatuated slave Gaul Junius in a spot of trouble, hot-footing (vagrant Flea in tow) after her troublesome step-daughter Flavia who has joined a mystery Egyptian cult in an effort to garner some attention for herself. Meanwhile, the love of Claudia's life - though she'll never admit it - Orbilio (the dancing around each other relationship between herself and Orbilio is a delightful subplot throughout the series) is under house arrest after discovering a literal skeleton walled up in his atrium during some renovations. The chase after Flavia and the Egyptian Theme park some 63 miles outside Rome provides its usual strange cast of assorted murders and villains and Claudia charms her way through the dangerous lot with some style and aplomb to save the day.<BR>If you read other Roman murder mysteries then Todd's heroine is a delightful step aside from the painstaking recreations of ancient Rome that seem to be an unwritten requirement. Indeed, Claudia Seferius is almost a twenty-first century party girl who has turned up two thousand years too early. There is a veneer applied throughout to the Roman lifestyle, but not too much attention is paid to fact and it doesn't detract in the slightest. References to Orbilio as a 'policeman' neatly encapsulate the style that permeates the series.<br />Todd's Roman mysteries are a refreshing breeze through the genre and I must confess that I eagerly await each book. Dark Horse should prove as equally enthralling.	2002-09-24
US	50323648	RJNWH2BRMJAF0	0061031321	461879486	Thief of Time (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A philosophical parody	The latest Pratchett installment would have got 5 stars but it felt a little long winded (given the philosophical nature of the plot perhaps this is a cleverly subtle technique by Pratchett?)<BR>In Thief of Time Discworld steps into the shadowlands of time to chase down a glass clock that has been made in Ankh-Morpork. The only trouble is, this clock can stop Time Herself. We meet Time Monks, the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse, Susan is the main protaganist, DEATH makes a welcome return and we meet the mysterious auditors (who are obsessed with Rules and simplicity).<BR>If you read Pratchett with a serious philosophical bent you will find that, despite the parody, some of the philosophy spouted is fundamentally thought-provoking. Lobsang's and Lse-Tsu's trip to chase down the clockmaker and Susan's subsequent guidance to a satisfactory post-apocalyptic conclusion are as delightful as ever. It is diffcult to synopsis this novel without giving much of the little puzzles away, but it is fair to say that this is a good effort by Pratchett. Not as good as the previous Fifth Elephant, but an enjoyable ride through time.	2002-09-19
US	50323648	R13EGAI142YLHS	071268039X	206344772	A Body in the Bath House	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Better in Rome	This latest offering from Lindsey Davis only confirms, I think, that, unlike JMR's Decius Caecilius Metellus, Marcus Didius Falco doesn't travel very well.<BR>A return to Britain after the opening Silver Pigs novel was always going to be interesting but this one ends up firmly mired in the mud of the villa that is being built. You get the impression that there was so much potential, as Marcus and Helena followed their suspect builders, Glaucus and Cotta - from their appearance in 'One Virgin Too Many' - across Gaul to southern Britain, that Davis ended up with too many threads to this novel to neatly conclude. What should, perhaps, have been a larger novel suddenly got crammed. The other disappointment is that the murder mystery technique is weak so it is obvious pretty quickly who the murderer is before we end up on a race across the roof tiles.<BR>Davis continues the character development as Maia is in tow, fleeing from an imaginary spy - though it is implied to be Anacrites - with Petronius Longus looking after the children (the funniest bit comes right at the end from Marcus' nephew as Marcus finally tracks down the hapless Glaucus and Cotta). <BR>After a murder of the site manager, Falco works his way through the artisans and workers on the site, deals with some intricate local politics and eventually get his culprit.<BR>Unfortunately, a ranking of Falco novels would place this somewhere near the bottom as the whole effort is rather muddied and obvious. I look  forward to Falco returning to Rome where he is in his element.	2002-09-12
US	50323648	R2S3FDW3JMKY0A	031227257X	944130641	SPQR VI: Nobody Loves a Centurion (The SPQR Roman Mysteries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The marvellous series continues	There was a substantial gap in the writing time of the SPQR series and JMR returns with another installation that sees our erstwhile hero once more stepping outside Rome. In this case, he is heading to Gaul to serve under Caesar as military tribune in his confrontation with the Helvetii.<BR>What follows is an enjoyable march through a legionary camp (JMR has clearly done some extensive research into the facts of a Roman army camp as the detail closely match historical findings) as the Primus Pilus Titius Vinius is murdered and the obvious suspects aren't so guilty to the eye of Decius.<BR>This neatly sets the scene for him to investigate another murder that encompasses more than we intially are led to believe, but this time he is under pressure to find the guilty party before Caesar returns. With aplomb, he picks his way through the clues and deals with a variety of characters before the denouement that is as subtle as it is brilliant.<BR>SPQR VI is an excellent addition to the series and is highly recommended.	2002-09-10
US	50323648	R17MOL4VUCUFIZ	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Peerless	There are a minute number of books out there in any given genre that deserve elevation above the top ranking. In this case 6 stars and beyond. Weis and Hickman's entire first Dragonlance Trilogy deserves such.<BR>In some respects they are on the same plateau as Tolkien having created and defined an entire sub-genre - the D&amp;D sub genre - that has spawned a vast library of games, characters, books, figurines, pictures etc. etc. that is truly awesome.<BR>The plot of this book has been stated many times in the hundreds of reviews so I won't go into an extremely well trodden path. What Weis and Hickman have achieved, and so few authors do, is create a set of characters where every reader can identify and sympathise with at least one of them and feel a sense of true pathos and exhilaration as we follow their story. A blend of war and peace, anger and love, sadness and joy, 'Dragons of Autumn Twilight' has defined a generation of fantasy fans and irrevocably made an indelible impression on a genre that was has so much potential for the imagination.	2002-09-10
US	50323648	R3TPKQZ0A1753J	033037401X	220927886	Midwinter of the Spirit (A Merrily Watkins Mystery)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Effortless supernatural thriller	I was introduced to Phil Rickman quite by chance several years back when he first produced Crybbe and was instantly hooked. The Welsh/English border is the perfect setting for his heady mix of celtic supernatural and modern new age characters. Existing in the twilight that is often so well depicted by James Herbert, he has produced, over the years, several linked tales that take you on the ancient paths of England's West Country invariably pulling fourteenth through seventeenth century tales of malice and horror to reemerge a sinister forces through the late twentieth century.<BR>So it is with Midwinter of the Spirit. A tale woven around exorcism and possession, our main protagonist is the return of Reverend Merrily Watkins from the Wine of Angels, a single mother who is prepared to both acknowledge and involve herself with the practical nature of exorcism. A lack of assistance by the outgoing resident and a continuing troubled relationship with her daughter leads Merrily to join forces with Lol Robinson (who'll crop up in A Crown of Lights and The Cure of Souls - a rough quartet we wonder? Or, perhaps the emergence of Rickman's favoured sleuth?) to investigate and eventually confront an ancient evil at the heart of the Cathedral where the shrine of St Thomas was destroyed.<BR>Rickman's works must rank him alongside James Herbert, and there are inevitable comparisons to King - though I think his work is of a different nature - and The Midwinter of the Spirit only confirms him as as established master of the supernatural thriller.	2002-09-04
US	50323648	R2JLUDFASGXXQ2	0802713939	291875257	The Extraordinary Voyage of Pytheas the Greek: The Man Who Discovered Britain	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Good introduction but apt to wander	It is extraordinary that as accomplished a historian as Barry Cunliffe should choose to embark on a historical trail where the evidence is minimal, given the usual rigidity of historians to rely on hard evidence to construct their histories. It is also quite refreshing and the opening preface has an almost amused tone in its admission.  In fact, the author makes it clear that much of our evidence for Pytheas can be seen in attributes of his commentating style and quotations by Diodorus or Strabo can thus be deduced as originally his. A little tenuous, but plausible.<BR>Cunliffe begins his deconstruction of the Pytheas myth by clearly explaining the origins and timouchoi government of Massilia (Marseille) as a Greek colony of Phocaea. Explanations of the seafaring wealth of the city give way to an expounding of the use of amphorae in archaeological works to understand trading patterns of the ancient world. <BR>One comment is a little debatable, as Cunliffe implies that the elite Hallstatt of Western Europe had a prestige goods economy created (or at the least, exacerbated) for them by the trade flowing out of the Mediterranean, which, perhaps too neatly, fits the historian's view of the ancient Greek world model of civiliser and barbarian. <BR>There is a good precis of the effects of the Celtic migrations of the 5th - 3rd centuries B.C. and a chronological set of mini-biographies on the Greek philsophers of Miletus, - Anaximander and Thales being prominent - Herodotus, Pythagoras, Aristotle et al, which serves to place the current Greek view of the world, both geographical and sociological. These, and additional references to Avienus and the periplus document used by mariners, all build to a world where the unsailed Ocean gives rise to both myth and philsophical imaginings.<BR>A world that Pytheas was born into.<BR>The book then digresses somewhat. Having admitted at the start of this work that there was very little sources to discuss, Cunliffe feels he has license to talk about the British experience. On the evidence of the aforementioned stylistic comparability, Cunliffe launches into a discouse on trade routes to Cornwall (justified as a potential route taken by Pytheas as it mentions tidal flow which Pytheas was interested in - though we aren't really given evidence to prove that). Nevertheless, the author is now pernitted to debate the location of various ancient sites in order to predict the Pythean route. Once he tenously advances his  theory Cunliffe digresses into the origins of tin, from a geological explanation to the finished traded article. He cycles through industrialization, marketing infrastructures and a more general discussion on the social structure of the time. There is an effort to remember the title of the book, with the odd `If Pytheas had visited here, then he'd've found such and such'. But, given the admission at the start that this was liable to happen, one cannot complain too much. As a result we get a long detour on the history of Cornwall with an interesting side discussion on the origins of the name Britain.<BR>Yet, by page 100, Cunliffe is back on the book title's implied content as we route westwards towards Ireland (there is a lengthy chapter on Ultima Thule - Iceland?), dragging further astronomical musing in,  - given sailing and astronomy are inextricably linked in the ancient world, not unexpected - boat construction and other items as we route around Scotland down the Amber coasts until the final leg back to Massilia.<BR>The final chapter deals with various ancient sources such as Dicaearchus, Avienus, Timeaus, Eratosthenes, Strabo and Polybius. Cunliffe discusses the press (most of it critical) that Pytheas gets and this is an excellent discussion. In some respects, it might have been better if it came at the beginning rather than the end.<BR>So, an intriguing book that unbashedly states it's liable to wander off the subject matter (and does) yet introduces us to an explorer who has come down to use through tantalising excerpts from later commentators, yet, by the very end, we get a sense of affinity with a man who set off to discover the world was more the the Mediterranean.	2002-09-03
US	50323648	RC0AYQK7OQE59	0743432746	174540377	1: Incas: Book One: The Puma's Shadow	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Superb	Volume one of this translation from the French is a sparkling story set against the conquest of Peru and the Inca Empire by Pizarro. The Puma's Shadow tells the story of the blue-eyed - and therefore mystical - Anamaya who was abducted by the Incas when her village was razed as a child. An outcast she becomes the wife of the Sun King's Huayna Capac Sacred Double after he passes the secrets of the ancient Incas to her on his deathbed.<BR>Her life at the Inca Court becomes fraught with danger as the warring family factions seek to become the new Sun King as the prince designate Atahualpa refuses the crown. With the attentions of Manco, Guaypar and Inti Palla she is mentored, begrudgingly at first, with pride later, by the High Priest Villa Oma as her visionary abilities begin to flower. A world away, a dashing Don Gabriel is freed from Spanish prison of the Inquisition, disavowed from his family inheritance and joins Capitan Pizarro petition to conquer the New World and find the endless rivers of gold of Peru.<BR>As each's fate comes closer together, the lives of Don Gabriel and Anamaya are intricately woven into a powerful tale of mystery, romance and breathtaking exhilaration as the fate of a peoples is unravelled in this novel.<BR>The author has created a gripping historical fantasy at the time when old and new worlds collide and has certainly ensured reading the next volumes.	2002-08-16
US	50323648	R2F841JK6Q700Q	0521485851	552286170	Aztecs: An Interpretation	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A definitive study	Inga Clendinnen has written a definitive guide to the Aztecs that attempts to view this somewhat enigmatic peoples in a manner that doesn't attempt to classify the ritualistic society that emerged from the Mexica Empire, but rather understand the roles of each social strata within the microcosm. There is an inevitable tendency to look at the religious perspective, focusing acutely on the human sacrifice and also on the Spanish conquest but the author shifts away (whilst having an opinion on the role of the victim) from these well-trodden paths to discussing the greater mores and individual experiences of the society.<BR>There is an extremely interesting chapter discussing the roles of wives, in particular the ascribing of fertility and maternal aspects and the circumscribing of any 'political' role. This, in turn, leads to a further discussion on the role of the mother and the 'growing' eidetism that permeates cultural perception.<BR>The text concludes with a brief chapter on the final destruction of Tenochitlan rounding off a work that brilliantly analyses Aztec ceremony and the individual's place within this society at the end of an Empire.	2002-07-26
US	50323648	R2X78KF8E6SILP	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Fabulous biography of Rome's greatest orator	Having picked up a copy a year ago through the UK this biography has become a definitive guide to Rome's greatest orator, a detailed analysis of the concept of the novus homo and a succinct history of the fall of the Roman Republic.<BR>Everitt may not set out to, but what he achieves is to show Cicero as a man who, even more than Cato, encapsulates the death of the Republic as the triumvirate take it steadily faster toward Empire. The rise and fall of a man from whom most of our twenty-first century depictions of the Late Roman Republic and its mores stem is laid bare. The one benefit Cicero brings is an ability to more accurately assess his state of mind through his letters to Atticus. As such, you could argue that this modern work holds more claim to being a biography than any other historical figure from antiquity. The source is primary; as such, fundamentally biased; but a biography doesn't really seek to present a strictly historical factual view.<BR>Without synposizing the entire work, Everritt takes a chronological approach to Cicero's life, rather than thematic and we get the 'set stage', from birth to somewhat theatrically described death. Throughout we see the world of Rome through the eyes of a man who, whilst intellectually realising the old world is over, emotionally struggles to keep it, wishing to remain a player. Indeed, it is only at the very end of his life, after his return from exile that we see a Cicero unencumbered by personal fears who epitomises the last defiant stand of the Republic.<BR>Everitt has produced a text that must become standard reading for any student of Roman history and the only 'complaint' is that we've had to wait so long for this marvellous effort.	2002-07-24
US	50323648	R6YC3AVEPR1AZ	0767904486	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Delightfully palatable	What a fascinating book. The story of the vignerons and their participation in the French Resistance during WWII is immensely palatable and its anecdotal style makes it a pleasure to read. The authors have stumbled across a rich wine and have let the reader inhale its bouquet to the full.<BR>We hear many stories of bravery. For example, Gaston Huet, who spent most of the war in a POW camp, and his organisation of a wine celebration that covered an escape but also gave great heart to those whose horticultural life had been ripped apart by an an occupying army whose senior intent was to milk France of its greatest produce. The race to hide some of the wine regions greatest vintages from the Germans provides some of occupied Frnace's most amusing and fearful stories. We gain an insight to life under the occupation, the food shortages experienced, and the daily dangers, but, above all, we understand the sense of unity that developed amongst those seeking to preserve France's greatest treasure.<BR>Through the stories we learn of the weinfuhrers - men like Klaebisch and Gomer - who were tasked by Berlin to keep a crippling supply of wine and champagne sent to Germany, but who recognised that Goring's wish to strip France of all its wealth would leave a devastated land. These men sought to work with those remaining to produce the wine whilst suffering from the increasing actions of the Resistance who destroyed and stole many shipments of wine and food - the constant letters of Henri Galliard testify to this. Amidst the stories of a people struggling to survive and preserve the great wines of France we see how it played a greater part in the war - for example, large orders to ship to certain fronts indicated where German offensives would commence - right up to the preservation of Paris when the German's left. The only item they destroyed was a wine storage facility.<BR>The authors have combined to produce a lively popular history of France's wine regions during WWII and itanecdotal style makes this a pleasure to read. Immensely fascinating.	2002-07-12
US	50323648	R1ZZ5O3VKOHPXB	0399148728	440578728	Fire Ice (The Numa Files)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good but not the best Austin	This is the third installment of Kurt Austin and it is not quite as good as the other two. This time we see Kurt in an adventure where Cussler uses this novel to give some more detail on our new hero's background. The Russian 'Ivan' - or Petrov - is a potential arch-nemesis of Austin's - who refuses to make him such despite nearly killing him - and we get a Russia - US collaberation to prevent an meglomaniac who wants to destroy the US Eastern Seaboard using artifically created sea floor slumps to create tsunami which in turn will lead to global warming designed to turn most of Russia into an resource abundant paradise. Throw in the search for the truth about the Romanov Tsars' treasure and you get a rip-roaring yarn.<BR>The plot, even for Cussler, is a little thin, but our erstwhile hero chases old submarines across the Black Sea, gets involved with Cossack warriors, an adventurous and beautiful TV show reporter - Kaela - before racing across the world's oceans in NUMA ships with his companions, Joe, Gamay and Trout to prevent the tsunami disaster.<BR>Unlike recent Dirk Pitt adventures this entire novel is ocean bound (the odd dip into NUMA headquarters). It is clear that Cussler and Kemprecos are more at home undersea where the adventure has all the technical jargon thrown in, than in creating a thriller based on characters, but, all in all, it takes us where we need to go as Austin proves again he is the new Pitt. What must eventually be asked - will Cussler do a Pitt-Austin adventure? This is an enjoyable Bond-esque ride that can be read on any journey or on holiday.	2002-07-02
US	50323648	RAAQJZ2CWHBP4	0867199016	327147087	TINTIN: COMPLETE COMPANION	Books	5	86	88	N	N	Marvellous	Any successful series tends to spawn a Guide and most of the time they add minimal value to the original series. Not so here. Farr and Remi have collaborated to produce a companion to Tintin that actually enhances the comic strip and makes you re-read them with a new awareness. The layout of the book makes it easy for you to focus on individual adventures, providing a four to six page commentary on the development, accuracy and major plot points. There is an opening section on Herge himself and how Tintin developed over forty-odd years.<BR>It is only after reading this I have realised how accurate Herge was with his subject matter. Again and again you suddenly realise that all the backing images, all the characters are founded on intricate real detail and people to create authenticity.<BR>Quite simply, any fan of Tintin must read this book. It supplies answers to questions you'd never think of and opens you to a whole new side of the hero and his creator.	2002-07-02
US	50323648	R2CHOH0Q3CWL4H	0156007517	554221370	Serendipities: Language and Lunacy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Brilliant thinking	Serendipites is a collection of five essays where Eco is debating questions that arose from his preceding text - The search for the Perfect Language. His style here is to debate several intrinsic problems in history that are tied to language and how human reaction to them has shaped our thinking. The essays neither seek to advise or educate, only to debate without answer, other than to nudge the reader towards areas that are yet open to answers and you leave the five with a multitude of thoughts, conjectures. <BR>The first essay - The Force of Falsity - gives rise to that scholarly need to provide polarity. Eco states that if there be a force of Truth, then surely, there must be an opposite force. He acknowledges the danger for understanding of falsity requires a kernel of truth to exist and that the real discourse is, rather, to prove that which claims authenticity, is in reality, that. The essay provides many canonical examples of where a belief which is incorrect - such as Ptolemy, Columbus, the Donation of Constantine and others - has led to a truth. Simply put, experience and thus knowledge, is often only obtained by theorizing and then practical trial and error. The driving force is merely proof of curiosity. Eco proves that serendipity is perhaps a separate force in itself but it is no great surprise because, without absolute knowledge, enlightenment must follow a path of conjecture and proof.<BR>The second essay - Languages in Paradise -  of the five has the greatest capacity for disagreement. Eco opens by stating that Adam was the Nomothete yet claims that his use of the name Eve &quot;is evident that we are dealing with names that are not arbitrary&quot;. This effectively contradicts the concept that Adam was nomothete, as a name-giver ascribes name first and meaning is a resultant. Either Adam was nomothete or, if he was not, then the names he gave were intrinsically correct. They cannot be both. A further question arose in that perhaps we are newly attempting to reach a primal language rather than return to one - to create, if you wish, a nomothete when we have a single universal language. There is a further problem with Eco's usage of Dante's statement that: \\"only a man is able to speak\\". You only have to point to modern studies of Dolphins to realise that speech in whatever form communication may take, is not unique to man. Indeed, communication is not limited to the oral sense, but also encompasses the other four senses, at the very least. The bulk of the essay is given over to Dante's attempt to take the vernacular and compose the perfect language but there is some intense debate over his use of four words and variants thereof which fundamentally alter the meaning of his philosophy. You could argue that if Dante's meaning is so obscure then he can hardly be using a perfect language. Eco proceeds to analyse Dante's search to create the perfect language, to become a linguistic Adam. He comments on Dante's apparent reversal of theory of the perfection of Hebrew by Adam and his potential connections to Abulufia who espoused that each letter already possessed meaning.<BR>The third essay - From Marco Polo to Leibiniz - speaks of the five possiblities resulting from cultural meetings, though the predominant would seem to be acculturation and uses Marco Polo to demonstrate that naming conventions are based on a cognitive understanding. He briefly touches on the development of phonograms (hieroglyphs the example - though there are more detailed books out there on the matter) and proceeds to the reconciliation of the antiquity of Chinese language with that of Hebrew, discussing at length Kirscher's work on such a reconciliation. Liebniz's later efforts on searching for such a utopian language highlights, according to Eco, where understanding attempts to fit the unknown to a pre-guessed condition. It is searching for similarities with the known, rather than researching the differences.<BR>The fourth essay - The Language of the Austral Land - begins by examining how we have tried to find the perfect language and how we have developed our existing. The usual theory was that experience dictated language. Then this was reversed to suggest that language dictated our experiences which does tie in with the concept of Adam as nomothete. Eco spends considerable time contemplating the Foigny Austral land utopia whose communication is designed to provide philosophers as everything is based on the elements. There is a very detailed technical discussion on Foigny and Lull's and Wilkin's additions and development of such a priori philosophical language and commentary on Descartes' criticisms of it. Ultimately, we see that the attempt to create such perfect languages results in an understanding of how linguistic imperfection can create some our greatest literary works.<BR>The fifth essay - The Linguistics of Joseph De Maistre -  is concerned with mimologism and achieving a recognition of the decscent of language. Theories that each language is able to rectify its own inconsistences reflects back a primal source. As such Eco shows the four theses of how languages achieve this development and Maistre's conclusion that in order to be able to reason one must accept a linked network of the development of language and its associated ideals.<BR>Serendipities is Eco at his semiotic best and, whilst he espouses it to be a footnote or appendix to `The Search for the Perfect Language', it is much more than that. Highly recommended.	2002-06-26
US	50323648	R1RM99TG0ZQY20	0609808893	959856545	When We Were Gods: A Novel of Cleopatra	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Somewhat Disappointing	This looked fairly interesting when picked up. Before I started, I spotted that the back of the novel contained a Q&A with the author which claimed that the aim of the novel was to produce a story based on fact rather than myth or fiction set against the Roman Empire - ignore the fact that this is incorrect. The Roman Empire began after Cleopatra's death.<BR>It disappointed on so many levels. The characterisation of the main protagonists - Caesar, Octavian, Anthony, Cleopatra - and the supporting Roman and Alexandrian characters was as far removed from historical fact of any Cleopatra novel I have read.<BR>Caesar comes across as a monarchy-obsessed philanderer, Anthony as permanently drunk yet with a Herculean disposition and Cleopatra herself as a naive girl trying to manipulate the greatest politicans of the time. The depiction of Rome was also somewhat startling.<BR>There seemed to be an application of twenty-first century morality to this ancient society which was equally unrealistic and the author made several historically inaccurate mistakes.<BR>The novel reads well and you can get through it at a fair pace and it possesses that 'gripping' edge to ensure you keep going.<BR>But it is not historically accurate at all and on that level it comes somewhere at the bottom of any recommended list of the genre. It is actually a good historical fantasy.	2002-06-12
US	50323648	R1FJ1YR1Z77AO0	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fine novel	Steinbeck's Cannery Row is, at times, a humorous look at a social microcosm and its individuals struggle to interact with, but, as per J S Mill, not interfere with, each other.<BR>The daily lives of Doc, Mack and the boys, Lee Chong, Albert and the rest move with a slow fluidity from snapshot to snapshot as each struggles to relate to his or her neighbor, to do good by them and achieve a place within the social stratum that is firmly fixed.<BR>Essentially, the plot is to hold a party. The self-deluding, but well-intentioned, Mack and the boys come up with a plan to gather frogs in order to hold a party for Doc. Within the social structure of the Palace Flophouse they successfully obtain all the necessary 'bits' to enact the plan, but its inherent seflishness means that they ultimately fail, wreck Doc's laboratory and end up being outcasts from their place in the social strata. Ultimately they realise that the Party needs everyone in Cannery Row's assistance and, once everyone pulls together, it is achieved spectacularly.<BR>A humorous look, yet with a deep underlying comment on the struggle for survival, at a small geographical area, the lives of these people leaves an indelible mark on the reader and you are left with a sense of affiliation and understanding that transcends the novel.	2002-06-10
US	50323648	R1S6YEDFTUNMQE	0380818191	476581890	The Truth (Discworld)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Pratchett's best	The twenty-fifth discworld novel delves into that quagmire that is freedom of the press - although William de Worde (our protagonist) stumbles into each precept on his way to bringing Ankh-Morpork's first broadsheet to life with its serious news, obituaries and humorous funny vegetable columns.<BR>The usual Ankh cast turn up in supporting roles, from the Watch to Foule Ole Ron in a seamlessly blended parody that makes Pratchett unique.<BR>This installment has a disgruntled shadowy set of powerful men hiring Mr Pin and Mr Tulip through the zombie lawyer (Mr Slant) to effectively disgrace Lord Vetinari.<BR>As is such with these carefully laid plans, they go slightly awry with Lord Vetinari's dog, Wuffles, surviving as a witness. This means William de Worde, ably accompanied by the reformed vampire, Otto de Chriek, Sacharissa and his printing gang searching for the Truth to free Lord Vetinari from disgrace.<BR>A brilliant journalistic parody, Pratchett brings together a lot of previous Discworld novel themes and character types back to Ankh-Morpork and shows us a glimpse of the reality of  both the city and its inhabitants away from the usual magic that permeates both.<BR>Whilst nothing has yet beaten Reaper Man or Carpe Jugulum, this must rank in the top 5 Discworld novels.	2002-06-07
US	50323648	R2HG8SNZJ66GME	0312283423	82923820	Saucer	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Amusing one-sitting read	Coonts' latest offering is the kind of novel you buy for that long plane journey, train ride or simply sitting outside one afternoon. Lacking depth in its plot, characterisation, it more than makes up for it with its sheer 'hold on for the ride' exhilaration.<BR>Rip Cantrell, who is working in the Sahara for a seismic surveying company during a summer vacation, spots a glint of metal and unearths a flying saucer in under two days - which in itself is no mean feat - then promptly, under the misguided notion that 'finders keepers' steals it from under the arguing governmental types with an ex-army pilot, Charley.<BR>What follows is a nonsensical speed ride across Missouri, earth orbit, Australia (bad guys come from here for a change), Eygpt, and an American stadium. A joy ride, par excellence, a literal rollercoaster, Coonts eventually takes his hands off the throttle to briefly explain the origins of this hundred, forty thousand year old craft, throws in a navigation system born of virtual reality and your ever-reliable anti-grav system to create an adventure where a scheming corporate magnate steals the saucer for huge financial and territorial gain in a lottery.<BR>Our erstwhile hero saves the day and then neatly ends giving all this wonderful technology to the people of planet Earth whilst the governments of the world look on.<BR>So, an enjoyable ride. Coonts finally does what other sci-fi authors haven't yet done - produces a flying saucer, removes the mystique and says: let's take it for a ride. All in all, it's hardly a thought-provoking novel, but it is a good fun read on that transatlantic flight.	2002-06-04
US	50323648	R3DHMPC7963TDU	0374106770	252394770	The Athenian Murders	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A Platonic Argument	This Platonic murder mystery that ultimately discusses Plato's Theory of Ideas through eidetism comprises two stories. The first is that of Heracles Pontor (who in his physical description comes across nicely as the ancient Hercule Poirot - not William Baskerville) and the second the self-doubting brush with insanity of the author-Translator.<BR>The premise of the novel is that a young member of Plato's Academy - Tryamachus - has been killed by wolves. A small inconsistency on the body, plus his mentor's - Diagoras - last moments with his student leads Hercules to take on the job (though he professes he is solving it for himself, even as he takes a fee) to discover the culprits. Along the way there are three other murders and a great deal of philosophizing as he works hs way through the intellectual and physical barriers thrown up to prevent him finding the truth.<BR>The one problem with this intellectual murder mystery - although along the same vein as Eco, but not as good - is that the reader is constantly forced to interrupt the narrative to read the subplot of the modern day Translator as a series of footnotes. This causes The Athenian Murders to become fractured and halts the easy reading flow of narrative<BR>However, the novel succeeds admirably on many different levels. At a basic level the denouement is as you would expect for a mytery set at this time and place. Combined with the endless aim for philosophical purity, vying with the descent into decadence beguilingly offered by mysterious cults the novels moves neatly from scene to scene laying level upon level of twist and suggestion as to both motive and fact.<BR>Hercules laconic decipherments offset nicely against the sense of mortification that his 'hirer' - Diogenes - develops as each murder occurs and he is forced to accept Reality. The plot itself is simple but the - at first - self-congratulatory nature of the Translator who feels the need to explain each and every clever image to the reader becomesa trifle wearisome. It is an interesting dichotomy. Many people would say the point of a novel is that every single reader 'sees' the words and images in a unique way at each reading. What the novel is trying to prove/disprove is that the eidetic nature of the book means every single reader will always arrive at the same Key no matter when or where the book is read.<BR>The nature of this philosophical argument and the novel's attempt to both explain, discuss and demonstrate it is what makes The Athenian Murders thought provoking. <BR>Highly Recommended	2002-06-03
US	50323648	R3SHQYV1QXI3NB	0801438675	338070146	Cleopatra: Beyond the Myth	Books	2	6	9	N	N	The myth remains safely intact	This book translated from the French is effectively a seventy-odd page thesis claiming to \\"reduce the person of Cleopatra to the facts, to what the ancient writers reported...\\"<br />Before reading a word I found myself asking if laying bare the bones of such a famous historical figure is detrimental to our perception of Cleopatra. Indeed, the profligacy of the myth is precisely why she has endured. We want our image of Burton and Taylor, our Shakespearian heroine. What could be achieved by revealing what is usually a disappointing reality?<br />The book then disappointed. I was expecting an outline of these myths (other than the well-trodden Boccaccio, Shakespeare and Hollywood) which would then be analysed to provide the facts and what did, indeed, lie beyond the myth.<br />It just didn't happen.<br />The first sixty pages are good summation of the period told from the Roman ancient sources but there is more fact about Anthony, Caesar and Octavian than the subject of the book. Even to begin there is a major problem with the sources for Cleopatra. Given there was only one contemporary (Strabo) who mentions Cleopatra once and a couple of stele, the rest of the ancient sources are secondary (1-3 centuries after the events). All Chauveau manages to confirm is that the `myth' of Cleopatra is all we have and the `facts' are either non-existent or simply distorted. He relies heavily on Plutarch (who is the one ancient source who depicts Cleopatra through his life of Anthony and anything he says is deliberately aimed at providing the myth) and intimates several times that we know nothing conclusive, stating that the ancient sources disagree on Cleopatra's origins.<br />All we have is relayed through her interaction with Rome. This is repeated on page 48 when the author astutely acknowledges that : \\"Cleopatra practically disappeared from history, according to the principle that Roman affairs were the sole subject of interest to our sources\\". Given this admission then you question the entire premise of the book, which is to take us beyond the \\"myth\\".<br />The four page conclusion could serve as the conjecture behind the entire thesis, but the preceding seventy pages effectively prove that, even to the ancient sources, the myth of Cleopatra is our reality, for nothing exists to remove us from that image of Burton and Taylor the silver screen. And, perhaps, nothing should exist.the entire premise of the book, which is to take us beyond the \\"myth\\".<BR>The four page conclusion could serve as the conjecture behind the entire thesis, but the preceding seventy pages effectively prove that, even to the ancient sources, the myth of Cleopatra is our reality, for nothing exists to remove us from that image of Burton and Taylor the silver screen. And, perhaps, nothing should exist.	2002-05-24
US	50323648	R302U56ZUU4F7P	0312271212	747433278	A Mist of Prophecies:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Different to the rest	Saylor's latest offering is remarkably different to the rest of the Sub Rosa series. The format, the prose-style, the characterisation and the historical basis move well away from the preceding set.<BR>Indeed this is the first of the novels that doesn't directly use a 'mystery' set in actual fact. At the time of the novel Caesar was about to meet Pompey at Pharsalus in 48 and Saylor only uses the references to the relatively unstable calm to place a date for this mystery. There is some dragging of historical 'fact' of the praetor Caelius in this year before Caesar's dictatorship and in some respects the tired old man ambience that permeates the entire book could be seen as echoing the sudden death of the Republic.<BR>The book takes the form of alternating chapters set in the present, as Gordianus investigates the poisoning of the ex-troupe artist/seer 'Cassandra' and the past with a series of snapshots of Gordianus' interactions with her. The denouement is reversed, actually taking place at the beginning of the novel with the mundus (Saylor actually gives some subtle direction as to where the guilty party lies) and then moves on to explain what happened.<BR>As in most of Saylor's novels it is the motive that is of utmost importance, that and Gordianus' relationship to both deceased and affiliators. We see a man struggling to accept his age and he changing times he lives in. His relationships and his reality are laid open bare to see.<BR>I suspect that Meto will make a 'return' to good graces in the future, Davus is broadly hinted at as possessing acute mental faculties and the continuance of Hieronymous is excellent. Bethseda's illness neatly places a sense of pathos into the proceedings.<BR>So, the novel: very different, as excellent as ever. However, you can't help wondering what is going to happen to the Sub Rosa series as time continues to pass for Gordianus.	2002-05-21
US	50323648	R2K4LWZHC33HE0	0441009336	156336723	Hannibal's Children	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An excellent alternative history	HIstory tells us that Hannibal got to the gates of Rome in the Second Punic War, threw a spear over the Colline gate, then headed south into Campagnia.<BR>In this retelling JMR has Hannibal ready to destroy Rome but offers a third option - national exile.<BR>Fabius Maximus - who seems to argue both sides at one point, rather confusingly - and the Senate agree and Rome leaves the fabled Seven Hills (the forthcoming title of the very necessary sequel to this excellent novel) heading north to Transalpine Gaul to found Roma Noricum.<BR>The novel moves forward just over a hundred years (Hannibal's arrival at Rome was around 205 B.C.), focusing on the efforts of one Marcus Cornelius Scipio (tag on the Africanus and you get the son/grandson of the original victor of the Third Punic War in true history) who is dictated to lead a delegation south towards Carthage to ascertain the ease with which the new Spartan-ethic Roman legions can reclaim the Seven Hills and launch an attack on Carthage itself.<BR>History has now truly diverged and Scipio finds himself and his band of merry men heading to Carthage as guest of governor Hamilcar to meet the Shofet and his Tanit-priestess sister. At this point we get diversion into the customary love interest with both her and then later, the Queen of Eygpt, Selene. Throw in a bitterly ambitious second-in-command, Norbanus (from the Noricum nobility opposed to Scipio's old Rome patrician nobility), who then surprises everyone with his military ability, some familiar figures from history - Archimedes being the most prominent in name, though not in presence - and you get a rip-roaring move through North Africa under the Cathaginian Empire. Which in itself rather resembles an exotic version of the later Roman empire in real history. Nevertheless, Carthage attacks Alexandria, Scipio gets to use some great new weapons (the Alexandrian philosophers get very agitated at this - echoing SQPR III), the Romans get to really see the miltary might of Carthage and in the meantime recapture both Italy and Sicily.<BR>The novel concludes with the kingly ambition of Norbanus developed ready to range through North Africa with four legions - echoes of Pompey - , Scipio in Alexandria being propositioned to become a king by Selene - echoes of Marc Anthony - and the Romans back in Rome. All of which neatly sets up the next novel.<BR>You can't help comparing this to that great alternative historical novelist - S M Stirling, but, on the whole, this is a fine reinterpretation. I'll definitely read the next one.	2002-05-20
US	50323648	R116SJ1R41LURP	037550432X	527698945	Route 66 A.D. :  On the Trail of Ancient Roman Tourists	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A good travelogue	Interesting book. I was hoping it would delve deeply into each and every single ancient visiting point, but it doesn't.<BR>Perrottet's conversational style begins with his delving through ancient sources and realising that the history of tourism begins in the 1st century AD with the settled pax romana. With his pregnant wife, Les, he decided to take one last trip and where better than to follow the original tourist trail.<BR>Beginning in Rome and dropping down to Naples (his imagery is bitingly humorous), Capri, Puteoli and thence to Brundisium, through Greece, Asia Minor and Egypt his narrative is more focused on his experiences of travelling the ancient routes and how the tourism compares to those indicated in the literary sources.<BR>I was expecting a factual description of each point with details compared to those of the ancients, but what you actually get is a pleasing commentary on the realities of the original package holiday and how much it differs from those tantalising glimpses we get through authors such as Marcellianus, Juvenal, Petronius et al.<BR>Thoroughly enjoyable I have no doubt this will prompt similar journeys following the ancient Romans.	2002-05-15
US	50323648	R3IQT110IHW12Q	0312246986	521171168	The Temple of the Muses (SPQR IV)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Best of the series to date	SPQR IV is JMR's best offering of Decius Metellus the Younger. Having so often referred to circumstance or snooping imposed periods of exile we finally get to see how well Decuis travels.<BR>And the result is as well as Todd's Claudia Seferius and better than Davis' Didius Falco.<BR>This installment finds our erstwhile hero appearing as a Roman diplomat at Alexandria, in the Eyptian province. Ably supported by his slave Hermes and the great physician character, Asklepodies he is quickly joined by his now-confirmed betrothed Julia Minor and the female half of Sulla's twin children, Fausta.<BR>As Decius and Julia wrly note towards the end, Decius gets tangled in a web of murder simply because it is, as Ptolemy the Flute-Player notes, his hobby. The murder, mayhem and rioting that he brings as part of his investigatory technique disrputs an entire city to the point that his denouement and great service to the Roman state is swiftly followed by him being tossed on the nearest ship to Rhodes. Never mind.<BR>No venture into Alexandria can occur without philosophical ramblings (Decius' dry comments on the death of Archimedes to Antigones is extremely humorous) and they abound here in plenty, beginning with the death of the mathematician turned secret mechanics-dabbler Iphicrates.<BR>The only thing that slightly disappoints and echoes the previous novel, is that the 'uncovering' is always lame. In this case the three culprits get together, write everything down and neatly recount everything they've done to the listening Decius. These people deserve to be caught if that's the case. You get the feeling JMR hadn't quite yet mastered the art of the murder mystery denouement in the same vein as that master of such  - Agatha Christie.<BR>Nevertheless, aside from a poor murder mystery ending, the rest of the tale is extremely good and the dry sardonic innocence of Decius 'snooping' is now firmly established making this tale very humorous.<BR>Buy it.	2002-05-11
US	50323648	R8FGME3EWMSHH	0312246978	30939762	The Sacrilege (SPQR III)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Best so far	This one is the best so far of the series. Apart from the author's familarity with his main character, Decius, the supporting ensemble are all finely meshed and their personalities are comfortable to the reader. The continuing feud between Clodius and Decius makes for fine entertainment. The introduction of the slave Hermes is with a mildly irritating character, but, given he is in the fourth installment it is interesting to see how he will develop. JMR gives us a more stable influence on Decius' live with the daughter of Lucius Julius Caesar 'joining' forces but being tee-d up to be Decius' betrothal.<BR>The plot centers around Clodius' infamous disruption of the Bona Dea rites in 62BC, and this time knowledge of the period doesn't impact on figuring out the murders. In all actuality, the murders are irrelevant and JMR hardly bothers to clear them up, Decius just mentally confirming his own theory as the facts. It spirals off into an interesting and, perhaps, not unbelievable, early view on the coming triumvirate. All the time JMR is quick to downplay and perhaps poke fun at the staid glorification of ancient Roman legends such as Caesar. For example Decius' hilarity at Caesar's famous remark about his wife Pompeia's non-complicity. It tends to humanise these historical figures.<BR>JMR's novels are 'published' as Roman murder mysteries but they are so much more than that. A satirical look at a fascinating period of history (much echoed by Steven Saylor), his astute (and, in this installment, being given license for hubris) hero bounces through ancient Rome in a delightfully irreverent manner in his quest to know the facts about murders and the general shadowy political dealings of Republican Rome.	2002-05-09
US	50323648	R23WXFG2437MTS	0380759950	291103337	Spqr II: The Catiline Conspiracy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not quite as good as SPQR I	Having read two of the JMR novels now I'm hoping a trend doesn't emerge having bought the other four as well. The trend is this:<BR>If you know anything about this period of history then the plot is nothing new.<BR>The Cataline Conspiracy is precisely that - an historical pice of fiction that follows the historical version of events. In that case this is an excellent piece of fiction, but it has the detrimental effect of meaning it's not a particularly gripping whodunnit as you know exactly what's going to happen.<BR>Both books have had a beautiful femme fatale, and in this case the murders aren't really relevant at all to the rest of the novel - hence the 'murder mystery' tag isn't really applicable here. Other than that it is a well written and engrossing piece of historical fiction. The developing enmity between Clodius and Decius is fast becoming the interesting bit in the series and the entire incident with the October Horse is the best section throughout. A good set of supporting actors makes this very readable. If you want a good murder mystery, this isn't it. If you want a good fictional account of the Cataline Conspiracy, this is it.	2002-05-06
US	50323648	RZ237CI5FDRUG	0393051293	2163541	Confessing a Murder	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Intriguing insights into the origins of the Theory	This was an interesting novel. The kind that makes you pause at the last page with a thousand thoughts and questions. From the opening publisher's statement about the authenticity of the diary by the unknown narrator friend of Charles Darwin to the final incidental murder on the island, this book is as equally scientific as it is personal. The narrator's obsession with beetles - more specifically his growing search for the golden scarab - is backed up by a wide-ranging entomological expertise on a range of flora, fauna and organisms on this Galapagos equivalent near Java. From the opening gadzocks, misseltow (mistletoe), rana grantii frogs, sargassum birds, the bouncing Cocumis ciconius, to the shapehifting Chamaelio abitissimus, the narrator intersperses his scientific precision with a lazy narration of his relationships with the Darwin family, his exile from England, his love for Charley and his wealth as an antipodean trader.<BR>Ultimately the narrator is claiming that the Theory of Evolution was a natural progression of his own thought and that his expounding of it to both 'Bobby' and Charley meant the final dual publication by both Darwin and Wallace through an strange twist of events that forces Darwin's publishing hand.<BR>Confessing a murder is narrated in an almost dreamy style, truly as though a diary of reminiscence, with the narrator 'waking up' when entomology is the subject to busily observe and precisely record his findings.<BR>Certainly worth reading	2002-05-06
US	50323648	R3MGSOEQZQWQ0G	0312277059	315045228	The King's Gambit (SPQR I)	Books	4	51	52	N	N	Great forerunner of this new sub genre	The ancient Rome murder mystery is a relatively new genre - and JMR could be held as its primary mover, so to compare it to Saylor, Davis or Todd is perhaps a little unfair. However it does stand up well. Having read this one I've promptly ordered the other five.<BR>Well characterised, well plotted the opening mystery for the senator's son, Decius Caecilius Metellus the Younger, skips neatly through the period around 70BC with some aplomb. His choice of a somewhat 'modern' (in his attitudes) young Roman of patrician nobility with various seedier supporting characters and faithful slaves has been echoed in later authors' attempts at the subgenre. It clearly works.<BR>Given knowledge of the actual events around this time, my review is biased towards reviewing the author's depiction of Rome and actual historical characters and it falls down slightly on this point.<BR>Two things lead fairly quickly to who dunnit:<BR>1)If you have a good knowledge of the period then it is fairly clear what's going on as JMR follows historical fact - admirably<BR>2)A lack of suspects points to the culprit.<BR>JMR's depiction of both Clodia/Claudia and Clodius is OK, again, given knowledge of the reality of what both will become you leave feeling their depiction isn't perhaps quite true. Both Crassus and Pompey exhibit imperial traits; again, doesn't quite fit in with Republican Rome and a view of a younger Caesar and Cicero is really setting us up for later novels - given the titles of those later novels.<br />All in all, well worth reading. I think that those who know the history of the period in some detail will view (and review) this offering in a different light to those who have not. But this is a highly recommended Roman murder mystery. I suspect it will get better and better with each installment.	2002-05-02
US	50323648	R3RUK4MYVR294D	0306811170	369415650	Xenophon's March: Into The Lair Of The Persian Lion	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fantastic popular history	John Prevas has succeeded admirably in producing a popular history that excels.<BR>The best thing about this book is not the rendering of Xenephon's Anabasis, but the opening chapters. There are many 'student' books out there that give a brief history of Hellenistic Greece but the facts are dry and difficult to retain.<BR>In four chapters the book manages to give a succint, memorable outline of both Persian and Greek History from the Heroic Age through to around 400BC when Xenophon joins the Greek mercenary army of Cyrus. My one 'complaint' was I wanted to know what happened to Parystatis, Cryus' mother. But that is not the aim of the book. In the meantime Prevas skipped through Cyrus the Great's conquest of the Medians, to Cambyses, to Darius I, Xerxes I, Darius II. We touch on the Delian League, the battles of Thermopylae, Marathon, Platea. The author gives a concise synopsis of current theories on the Greek polis, the Spartan and Athenian conflicts and the centralised monarchical Persian Empire. All within four excellent chapters. Having studied Ancient History myself all I can say is that if this book had been written whilst I was at college it would have become my reference point for this period of history. Forget J K Davies. This is the general text to have.<BR>Prevas moves swiftly onto the march of Xenophon. My only raised eyebrow was that not much was dedicated to the march before the battle with Ataxerxes. Could have been more detailed.<BR>However, this is not to detract at all. Having also just read &quot;The Ten Thousand' a fictional recreation by Ford, I'd actually recommend people to read this. It a popular history certainly, but it reads far better than any current fictional version of Xenophon. The history is there, but so is the ambience.<BR>Buy this book.	2002-04-21
US	50323648	R1C27JEATNA80X	0786867876	451605784	The Floating Brothel: The Extraordinary True Story of an Eighteenth-Century Ship and Its Cargo of Female Convicts	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Very good	Sian Rees has drummed up a very readable and very interesting account of the transport ship Lady Julian (strange name!) that set sail from England in 1789 to Sydney Cove, Australia.<BR>The opening chapters are very dry and are clearly based on set of gaol lists etc. to try and get names onto the ship. Rees settles on the 'history' of nine or ten female convicts who cover as broad a spectrum as you can from the 'criminal' tier of Georgian society plus the usual faces - captain, purser, surgeon, cook.<BR>In a strange way, once Lady Julian hits the open sea, Rees' narration changes, moves away from a slightly stilted historian to biographical free flowing ease. She even permits herself to 'set the scene' - that biographical method so frowned upon by strict historians. <BR>This work succeeds all the more for it. <BR>If you liked 'Further than Any Man' - the story of James Cook - you'll like this.<BR>The journey down Africa, to Rio, through Cape Horn - all the while taking care to explain the current state of these 18th century places - is so readable, all the time giving updates on the desparate situation at Sydney Cove. In some respects Rees almost glamorizes the journey and is correct to point out that we cannot apply twenty-first century morality to an eighteenth century reality.<BR>This is immensely readable, extremely interesting and provides a fascinating insight to a small snippet of history that almost defined an antipodean future. Highly recommended.	2002-04-16
US	50323648	R17UR66JABM8V	0679731970	964065651	Collected Poems	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Extremely good	I must confess that I tend to favor the epic poem - the Homer, Virgil, Dante, Milton, Spenser.<BR>But I find Auden delightful. He's one of those twentieth century poets who subscribes to the old theme of poetical technique rather than stringing a bunch of loosely connected words together in the knowledge it'll instantly make it thought-provoking simply because it makes no obvious sense.<BR>Auden's poetry makes heavy use of alliteration, and rythmic meter and this lightens the mood immensely.<BR>My two favorite poems have to be 'O where are you going?' and 'Have a good time'.<BR>Try this part-stanza from the latter:<br />&quot;He arrived at last; it was time by the clock.<BR>He crossed himself as he passed the wood;<BR>Black against the evening sky the vats<BR>Brought tears to his eyes as he thought of their love&quot;<br />Marvellous.<br />Or, from the former:<br />&quot;O where are you going?' said reader to rider,<BR>That valley is fatal where furnaces burn,<BR>Yonder's the midden whose odours will madden,<BR>That gap is the grave where the tall return.'&quot;<br />Auden is precisely the type of poet whom you read on the train, a journey poet of ponderance and easy mood. In some sense he is the modern bucolic, the present eclogue and, with Ted Hughes, is one of the finest english poets of the twentieth century.	2002-04-15
US	50323648	R2S40CRQYHG1YF	1585670227	681042451	The Last Kabbalist of Lisbon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb intellectual mystery	Without a doubt this is one of the finest literary whodunnits written in recent years. Though to call it a 'whodunnit' automatically puts it into that subclass of murder thrillers and it is far superior to those. It failed to meet my expectations, and this has nothing whatsoever to do with the book or the author, because of the publishing gump. The Arcadia version B format has a review on the back that screams: \\"an American Umberto Eco\\".<BR>And so raises expectations to unscalable heights.<BR>To draw a parallel, it's akin to those fantasy novel reviewers who proclaim the next trite offering as 'surpassing' or 'the new' Tolkien. Talk about setting an author up for a fall.<BR>So, this is not on the same level as Eco. In fact, there is nothing out there to come close to Eco, so forget the reviews and recognise that this is a brilliantly characterised, superbly plotted literary murder mystery set in 1506 against the backdrop of the persecution of the New Christians. Zimmer makes one slip - he introduces our erstwhile detective - Berekiah/Pedro - to a sidekick. If only we could get away from sidekicks!<BR>Nevertheless the plot, the scene and the intensity of the writing does mean this is the finest intellectual murder mystery of the twenty-first century.<BR>But it is not an Eco.	2002-04-11
US	50323648	R3KPFUS3XUV3WX	0671037285	784225115	Circle and the Cross	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very good celtic fantasy	Whenever you read a celtic fantasy you expect a certain prose style and plot - namely Tuathans, Danaans, earth mythology and ancient stones and trees. It all abounds here.<BR>There is a nice tendency these days for those writing of the early Dark Ages to begin with the waning influence of the Romans. In this case, it's a little later with the attempts of the Church in Rome to bring the pagan Irish underheel.<BR>As with most plots the relevant 'missonaries' turn out to be opportunistic zealots making use of the Cross to justify more barbarity than the supposed pagans themselves can demonstrate. It is a common theme, the apparent civiliser being more savage than the savage, but it works well in celtic fantasy.<BR>The story is simple enough, narrated by Mawn, the first of this trilogy deals with his callng by Gobann to become a wanderer - a celtic druid master - very Merlin - and his subsequent involvement in a war between the usurper (forgotten his name!) -who is driven by the evil Palladius - and the legitimate ArdRigh Leoghaire. Throw in a beautiful celtic druidess - Caitlin and her prince Murrough, make sure they are abducted by a bunch of truly barbaric Saxons led by Thegn Hanaar and a lackey evil Roman Seginus, have a glorious battle for a hill fort and the death of the great Rowen Tree and you have all the makings of a great celtic fantasy. There's the celtic 'magic' - usual dream wanderings filled with Ravens - and it all comes nicely together in a well crafted, well-plotted, well-characterised opening novel. I look forward to the next two.	2002-04-09
US	50323648	R3488XSON949BC	0060959436	837927143	The Discovery of Chocolate	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Anne Rice in style	This is a delightful novel. It's almost a short Anne Rice. Simply put, the cacoa bean is used to create an elixir of immortality and, like most of the vampires of Rice, our erstwhile hero Diego de Godoy wanders back from the New World to Spain and beyond attempting to reseek his lost Aztec love, Ignacia. With his faithful dog who makes the perfect silent partner over four centuries, Godoy perfects the chocolate art and the ties between both it and love are there as a major theme. The novel is a series of episodes, from the Bastille, to Freud, from Hershey to the whore houses and each one touches on the almost epicurean meddling in important historical moments until Diego realises that he simply missed his love by a matter of not thinking.<BR>I highly recommend this. It is an almost dreamy telling, easy on the eye and, whilst it can be though-provoking, is almost wickedly sensual in its cares.	2002-04-08
US	50323648	R1XEHLZMD0JTU4	0312269463	829154026	The Ten Thousand: A Novel of Ancient Greece	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A good read but hardly a gem of the genre	Historical fiction novels, I feel, always expose an author's ability to create a plot. The reason is that such novels always require a certain amount of fictional license in the recreation of the historical figure's early life. Particularly with ancient heroes such as Xenephon. Ford makes easy use of the 'sidekick' narrator in Themo and there seem to be a general favor amongst authors of this genre to make that narrator a slave.<BR>So it is here. The 'early life' of Xenephon is minimal in actual record so Ford has to make something up - and fails dismally. He trots out the tired old standard vingettes: the hero's development as a warrior, his first love, the political situation of the time, and the guru mentor - in this case Socrates. It's all a bit poor.<BR>However, once we get past the author's efforts to create a history for Xenephon and onto the areas where he is writing around actual events with the march of the 10,000 then his writing style settles down. Indeed, it actually becomes very good. The side plot with Tissaphernes' daughter as the statutory love interest and the novel does attempt to give us some insights as to the hardships. Not through Xenephon though. He is depicted as harsh and stoic, which neatly allows the author to not delve too much into his character. In fact, the character of Clearchus is brilliantly drawn, though perhaps it draws a bit too much on Spartan reputation than historical fact.<BR>Having read a fair few ancient Roman/Greek historical fiction, this will come somewhere down on my recommendation list, but any fan of the sub-genre should read it.	2002-04-08
US	50323648	R36I1YTXT53M84	0316359424	944763751	The Adventures of Tintin, Vol. 2: The Broken Ear / The Black Island / King Ottokar's Sceptre (3 Volumes in 1)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A very neat presentation	This standard hardback sized 3 in 1 is just the thing. Most adults find Tintin an excellent toilet book and the single adventure large versions just aren't right. This neat set of three: The Broken Ear, The Black Island and King Ottokar's Sceptre (the best 'early' Tintin, by the way - i.e. no Captain Haddock or Calculus ; though the Thompson twins are not in their first adventure) fits nicely into the bathroom alongside the other volumes. I'm not sure why they stopped at three - or, at least, I can't find volume 4, but it was high time a decent-sized version of Tintin appeared and this does the trick nicely.	2002-03-17
US	50323648	R1NP3JKG6NN93S	031220339X	132522712	Monsoon (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent	This sequel to Birds of Prey finds Hal Courtney (eventually the Courtneys will have been written about from the beginning of time! - and no bad thing either) with four sons - Tom, Dorian, Billy and Guy. Much like Shasa Courtney's sons in the earlier Courtney series written in the 80's, each is very different. The gregarious Tom, the timid Dorian, the bully Billy, and the jealous Guy are very different brothers. The novel primarily deals with Tom, Guy and Dorian and the acrimony that develops between the first two. Billy hovers like a vengeful dark spirit back in England whilst the other three go to sea with their father Hal. Hal's death midway through forces Tom - with his faithful friend Aboli -  to hunt after Dorian, who has been captured by Prince al-Malik. Smith's stories aren't formulaic, but his characterisations are. You could say it is to be expected, that the same traits arise again and again with the Courtney family, it's just Sean and Garrick on the High Seas this time with Shasa portrayed by Hal. Irrespective, Smith is as enjoyable as ever.	2002-03-17
US	50323648	RP1F4USI2FNX4	067178546X	814935595	Blue Gold : A Novel from the NUMA Files	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Just as good as Dirk	I realise my title might be seen a criminal to fans of the erstwhile Dirk Pitt, but I can't favor him over Kurt Austin, or vice versa. Cussler is a formulaic as ever but it works! From the opening taster with Austin's counterpart love of high speed boats to Dirk's of antique cars, Kurt sets off with his own Giordino (Zavala) to find out why whales are dying in super-heated water.  They run up against Brynhild, Gogstad's Scandinavian corporate meglomaniac with a penchant for controlling the world's freshwater, a Viking fixation (the references to Valhalla throughout are a nice echo of the latest Dirk Pitt installment) and dubious taste in hirlings (the Kradzik brothers). Throw in the husband and wife NUMA team of Gamay and Paul with a sizable side trip of their adventures in Venezula rescuing the local white goddess, Professor Francesca Cabral, a trip into Mexico and all culminating in a battle at Lake Tahoe and you have a rip-roaring Cussler yarn.<BR>Sure, some will still favor Pitt over Austin but Paul Kemprecos' addition to Cussler's skills have created no poor imitation at all. Hopefully Kurt and Joe's adventures will be as long as Pitt's. Valhalla told us Dirk Pitt was getting older. Kurt Austin is his younger counterpart.	2002-03-17
US	50323648	R1U2381E01G11B	0515103454	77786664	Haunted	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Vies with The Magic Cottage	I'm not sure which I like best, this or the Magic Cottage. Probably joint first of Herbert's novels. Haunted is one of those rare ghost stories where the ending completely catches you by surpise. Like the film, Sixth Sense.<BR>Without giving it away, this isolated english rural house is the setting for the erstwhile reporter, David Ash, to unravel an old, old ghost who is claimed to be haunting the current inhabitants. Simplistically told, well drawn, I dare anyone to guess what's really going on.<BR>Oh, and there was a film made of this with Anthony Andrews a while back whose screenplay is as good as this original ghost story. I recommend watching it as well	2002-03-15
US	50323648	R169OZEOKSMHU9	0451172817	742574412	Needful Things: The Last Castle Rock Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Favourite King	I realise that there are better King novels out there - probably his earlier stuff - but his is by far and away my favorite. I will admit that the film with Ed Harris and Max von Sydow has influenced further my favoritism but this has everything. It draws on the inherent jealousy and envy within human nature, the desire for petty revenge that quickly spirals out of control and the religious animosity and human greed in the face of vanity. The devil raging through a small US town almost as an afterthought after newspaper clippings show far greater deeds, is excellently told. There is no ghoulishness or dripping blood at every turn, rather the fear and chills are generated through sheer human spite and maliciousness. Inevitably, this supernatural manipulation of human failings provides pathos, humor and lurching moments of genuine surprise. The characters are excellently drawn, from the small town sheriff with his arthritic girlfriend to the pitiably crazed 'Buster' and the fanatical religious leaders, the devil's subtle rampage through this small-town is excellently done by Stephen King. A must-read in the genre.	2002-03-15
US	50323648	R344HRZ9W85BMD	0385497954	599898766	The Tale of Murasaki: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fabulous	This is by far the best piece of fiction I have read this year. Dalby's fictionalising of Murasaki is completely believable. What makes it all the more delightful is the complete acceptance within Murusaki of her position with 11th century Japanese society. Not for one instant does she even think it necessary to question the patriarchal society nor her place in it and the novel succeds all the more for it. Her 'love' for Shiburu, Nobutaka, Kerria-Rose and Ming-gwok is superbly realised by Dalby from the strange borders of Echizen province to the more comfortable realms of Miyako. Murusaki is deeply intellectual to the point of emotionless - indeed she is almost dispassionate about the realities of life. Her Genji stories (based around Korechika) and subsequent summoning by Michinaga to provide a written legacy far more than Kinto could ever realise is enchanting. The tantalising glimpses of the Imperial Court, of Ichiro, Teisha and Shoshi lends a truly authentic air to the depiction of 11th century Court Japan.<BR>I do not know how 'realistic' it can be deemed, but Dalby's fictionalising is breathtaking. The intermittent poetical lines are sheer genius and I look forward to more from the pen of this talented writer. Highly recommended.	2002-03-14
US	50323648	R3PQNTLVMZJ0EC	0415025273	772493327	From the Gracchi to Nero: A History of Rome from 133 BC to AD 68	Books	5	12	16	N	N	I am surprised	I am very surprised to find only 4 reviews on Amazon about this marvellous collection of primary sources.<BR>Scullard's 'From the Gracchi to Nero' is the definitive primary source material for the period covering the Fall of the Republic through the Flavian Emperors. Whilst it may be viewed as slightly out-of-date, any serious student of Roman History musst have this on the shelf and it should be very dog-eared. There is nothing else out there to parallel its usefulness.<BR>An absolute must-buy.	2002-03-13
US	50323648	RA7N55DDHX81U	0292752423	341216529	Inanna, Lady of Largest Heart : Poems of the Sumerian High Priestess	Books	4	41	49	N	N	Good translating, forget most of the commentary	This up-to-date rendition of Sumerian religious poetry and hymns can be reviewed in two areas. The first: that of the theories around the poems/hymns; the second: the actual translations. Five stars the latter, two stars the former.<BR>The first part is given over to discussion of the Sumerian culture and the mythology of Inanna. The first chapter dupes as an intro and is autobiographical, which is nice, as it's good to see why an author has chosen to write any book. Chapter Two could be summed up by the statement that Inanna is \\"all encompassing\\", but the author chooses to spend a dozen pages saying it. To be honest you can safely ignore Chapter Two. Chapter Three is far better, giving a succinct history of pre-Sumerian cultures during the Ubaid period. Chapter Four is also very good as Meador gives a history of the archaeology of the Sumerian period.  It continues through Chaprter 5 with an interpretation of Enheduanna's life. Several interpretative anomalies and assumptive theories leap out in chapters 5 to 7. For example, the single disk that was found stating: \\"Enheduanna..., daughter of Sargon\\" is interpreted as literal, even though, as the author acknowledges, this presents a dichotomy (as other Sumerian scholars also acknowledge) of incestuous rituals described in Chap6, pg 61. Given all these scholars and the author agree it presents a problem it might be prudent to theorize that the term `daughter' is ritualistic and not literal. But, by taking the literal interpretation, it has allowed the author to present a full princessly/priestessly life of Eduhanna with no primary source to back it up.<BR>Chapter 7 begins to discuss the 42 hymns and 3 poems. Hymn 8 speaks of the `seven seas' which throws up all kinds of questions, given the relatively modern usage of the term. What seven seas were the Sumerians referring to? The author starts to provide assumptive criticism of the hymns and the statement that: \\"In these works she created a role for Inanna never before explicitly stated\\" is not teneble. That's akin to saying that Homer was solely responsible for creating the roles of Achilles, Hector and Agamemmnon in the Iliad just because his is the earliest record. Something so patently untrue any Hellenistic scholar would deride the statement. It is further erroneously backed up by the statement: \\"Enheduanna draws a complex picture of Inanna that had probably never been articulated before.\\" `Probably'? Alarm bells began to go off on reading that, if the author isn't convinced of her own thesis. Another example is the hymn section on pg77 where the word `captive' is transliterated to mean she was exiled and there is subsequent psychoanalysis of her state of mind in this `exile'. Perhaps the word `captive' is symbolic. It is, after all, a liturgical hymn.<BR>What is also frustrating, and Meador's amateur historian status perhaps explains it, is that (in this section) hardly any of it seems to be her own original thought. It's a constant procession of secondary author quoting, almost as though the author feels she needs professorial agreement for her points to be valid. Which is clearly not true, given the latter sections of the book. The book is good enough without a regurgitatory summation of other secondary sources.<BR>The second part is given over the the poems and is so much better. Brief intros, the translation (my only desire would be for a parallel cuneiform alongside the english, as translatory license is obviously given; unless the author knew when and where Enheduanna was using slang which I doubt) then the commentary on the text. Not a sniff of secondary sources just free-flowing precise scholarship. Indeed the differences between what I term part I and part II are vast.<BR> The first `poem', between An, Innana and Ebih, has Meador drawing parallels to Eden.There was a very interesting comment on there being a pre-Edenic myh with Adam having a wife before Eve, named Lillith which was new. The second, lauds Inanna'spowers, the reverence and rituals due her, with commentary on the personas of Innana. The third, exalts Inanna after a claimed actual event.<BR>To conclude, a tale of two parts. In the first the author tends to switch between literal and figurative interpretation to fit her theories and you end up asking more questions than receiving answers. In the second , the translations of the poems are extremely well done and the sense of devotion to Inanna shines through. The author leans towards a spiritual translation rather than an factual one, and therefore you need to read it with an awareness of `bias' to the imparted message, but as a current up-to-date version of religious Sumerian poetry this is excellent.	2002-03-11
US	50323648	R34CA23MTTTZL4	0688053394	336392187	The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Excellently accessible history	This excellent book is a complete history of the Medici family and their considerable input to the Renaissance.<BR>Part I (-1462), after giving brief details of Giovanni de' Medici,  really opens up with Cosimo and takes great pains (perhaps biased) to stress his image as a political player who ousts the ruling Albizzi family from Florence just after 1433. The author is careful to indicate his belief that Cosimo de' Medici exhibited a shrewdness of political character, the first private citizen since the Fall of Rome to exercise kingly authority from a place in the shadows. Fundamentally, Cosimo exercised major influence over all the major secular and temporal figures in Italy. The book then details Cosimo's `dabbling' with the doctrinal conferences between Constantinople and Rome and gives a summary of his political domination for thirty-odd years. Once Cosimo was established as the paternoster of Florence (and therefore Italy), the book moves on to discuss his architectural patronage There is discussion (indeed as there is of most of the artists patronaged by the Medici throughout the book) of both Ghiberti and Brunelleschi. The book deals with Cosimo's involvement in war, particularly with the establishment of Sforza as Duke of Milan, at the time in major opposition to European power-brokering. There is a brief intro on his sons Giovanni (who dies from an obesity related illness) to Piero. Hibbert leaves us with a lasting impression of an almost `saintly' man who's brilliant business acumen made him the greatest man of commerce in history.<BR>Part II (1464-1492) opens with Piero de' Medici and his problems with Niccolo Soderini. By 1467 his ascendancy was assured and we continue on the trail of munificence with Piero's patronage of Botticelli et al. Part II is mainly devoted to Lorenzo. The author gives us a fairly complete physical and character description (all these can be backed up by the centre plates with various paintings and busts). The generosity of theMedici espoused here emphasizes that, like all empires up to the 16th century, they tended to be founded around single brilliant men (Cosimo, in this case) who then left a legacy. Hibbert shows us several other key moments. The massacre at Volterra, the assassination of Guiliano de' Medici by the Pazzi family, Florence's `en masse' excommunication, Lorenzo peace treaty with Naples in 1479 and finally his early death in 1492.<BR>Part III (1492 - 1537) starts with Piero di Lorenzo de' Medici. A petulant man, the other figure on the scene at the time was Fra Giralomo Savaronola (a major figure in Eliot's `Romola'). Hibbert devotes a lot of time to this man, the priest of San Marco from 1489, who was convinced of his prophetical skills. Charles VIII of France invasion in 1494 plunged the Medici back into European politics with Piero negotiating a Florentine surrender. At this point serious divisions in the Medici family manifested themselves with his cousins actively siding with Charles VIII. Savaronola's execution came too late for the Medici and they were outcast from Florence. Piero died in 1503 and his brother Giovanni became Rome's youngest Cardinal at 16. Spain invasion of Italy and sack of Prato led to the restoration of the Medici and 6 months later Giovanni became Pope Leo X. Like most Popes of the time he looked after his family's interests, wanting to turn Italy into one Medici-governed state. He managed to spend more excessively than any former member of his family, draining papal treasury reserves until his death. It just before this the Medici family suffered a crisis of a different sort. The death of Leo X's nephew, Lorenzo de' Medici meant a lack of legitimate heirs. It is at this point we hear of a female Medici - Caterina - assuming prominence. After the German sack of Rome in 1527 Florence turned against the Pope who was seeking with Charles V to restore the Medici. The Prince of Orange's army forced a Florentine surrender and Alessandro de' Medici was sent by the Pope to govern her. His murder by Lorenzaccio de' Medici who seems to have indulged the Medici family prediliction for excess, meant the ascension of Cosimo di Giovanni de' Medici rule the family.<BR>In Part IV (1537 - 1743) Hibbert covers a period three times as long as the preceding sections. He begins with Duke Cosimo I and ends with Anna Maria. Cosimo I brought the Medici back into some order and restored Florence, He became a Grand Duke under Pius V in 1569. Of his five sons, Francesco rose to prominence after the death of Cosimo's wife, Maria in 1564. Hibbert moves on to Grand Duke Fernando I in 1587. Again the Medici are famous for their pagentry and courting of European nobility. In 1690 Cosimo II succeeded and unbelievably increased the family reputation for lavishness. He was a patron of Gallileo.  In 1642 Fernando II took over and attempted to keep the Medici out of politics. Hibbert devotes considerable time to his son's (Cosimo III) problematic marriage to Marguerite-Louise d'Orleans. In fact, this is really the only topic concerning Cosimo III. His son, the Grand Prince Ferdinand turned out to be a disappointment. In fact, what undid the Medici was that no heirs could be produced.The invasion of Austria meant that Anna Maria, Cosimo's surviving daughter was permitted to live out her life. She died in 1743.<BR>To conclude, Hibbert book is enormously refreshing to read and he moves through the three hundred years of the Medici with an almost Suetonius-esque alacrity. What he demonstrates is an `empire' that is built from one man's banking genius into an Italian dynasty. The Medici's patronage of the arts permitted the Renaissance and they irredeemably changed the course of European history. This book is a must-read for anyone wanting a general history of both the Medici and the Italian Renaissance.	2002-03-06
US	50323648	R2W2NB7FJ18QY9	0756400473	163457578	The Eyes of God (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Seen this before	To give John Marco credit, he writes well in the fantasy genre. But this latest offering doesn't show any startling originality. The type of fantasy sub-genre he has adhered to has characters that can loosely be split into two types: The rags to riches crowd or the Kings and Queens who save their land crowd.<BR>This is an example of the latter.<BR>The story makes use of the well-known 'love triangle' plot with Cassandra, Akeela and Lukien - some may draw parallels with King Arthur - and within 100 pages you're thinking, haven't I seen all this before, but slightly better in Feist's Silverthorn? Which in itself goes right back the Sleeping Beauty myth. The speed and alacrity with which Cassandra falls for Lukien is also a bit too fast to be entirely believable, unless Marco is implying she's incredibly shallow?  What did surprise me is that a 'medieval-esque' society had clear knowledge of the physiology and diseases that we've only come to know about in the twentieth century. The depiction of other countries also tended to follow previous books of the sub-genre.<BR>Marco's characters are well drawn, the narrative flows well and the action is precise. It's just a case of nothing new plot-wise. You seen it all before.<BR>However, the author has immense potential and writing ability so there will, no doubt, come a truly original fantasy series from the pen of this talented writer.	2002-02-28
US	50323648	RV2CW0GISAEHL	0671722727	930167934	King Lear	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Shakespeare's finest tragedy	King Lear is perhaps Shakespeare's most psychologically dark tragedy, though many may argue for Macbeth. The central theme is that of the family and the emotional and physical exile that can be brought about for simple material gain. The naive and pitiable Lear with his Cinderella-esque children, Goneril, Regan and Cordelia present all that is right and wrong with a father's relationship with his children. From his opening gambit:<br />\\"What will thoust say to gain<br />A third more opulent than thine sisters?\\"<br />We see exactly why the terrible tragedy must unfold. The side plot between Edmund and Edgar, the donning of the garb of the madman whilst Lear descends in to madness mirrored by his dying Fool is one of humanity's greatest literary tragedies. Whilst the 'baddies' lose in the end, there is no victory, only self-realisation and, ultimately, death. Lear's supporting cast of characters can only dance to the tune he sets in slow, unalterable motion, and there can be no silver lining at the end. Only a deep and terrible understanding of the destruction of the human psyche.<br />'Lear' drives home the failings of the human soul but ensures that inner understanding and remorse is attainable at a great price. It is Shakespeare's finest tragedy.	2002-02-28
US	50323648	RTWCCBN9JR58N	0671722905	764423438	The Tempest (New Folger Library)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Shakespeare's 'intellectual' play	'The Tempest' was the last of Shakespeare's plays and contains all of the finest elements of his comedies, tragedies and histories. Indeed, one wonders as to the autobiographical makeup of Prospero, 'The Tempest' coming across as a signatory piece.<br />The play deals with a shipwreck on an island inhabited by three people - the 'sorcerous' Prospero, his daughter Miranda and the 'beast' Caliban.<br />As such the play is probably the most thematic of all Shakespeare's plays, there being sub-themes of revenge (Prospero was banished from Milan), slavery (Ariel and Caliban), ridiculous material gain (Trinculo and and Stephano) whilst the main themes are those of innocence, baseness of character and intellectual impartment. Each of these comes into contact with 'civilisation' in the form of the princely shipwreckees with the inevitable innocent Miranda being seduced by Ferdinand and Prospero both separating and sending off the various parties around the island to manipulate the desired outcome. He gets it of course, but the primary focus is on his relationsip to his two 'slaves' Ariel the spirit and Caliban, the beast. The relationships are markedly different, the former being ethereal, intangible; the latter earthy and brutal.<br />This is certainly Shakespeare's finest play, if not the most poular, simply because it is a microcosm of everything that has gone before. It has romance, brutality, comedy, history, tragedy, pyschology, despair, laughter, the sublime, the ridiculous. None of the rest of the plays are as complete and, to echo George Eliot, you could say that 'The Tempest' was 'performed with [his] own best blood'.<br />Sure, Macbeth, King Lear or Hamlet - greatest tragedy, A Midsummer's Night Dream or Romeo and Juliet - greatest romance, Two Gentlemen of Verona or The Merchant of Venice - greatest comedy, Henry V or Richard III - greatest history ; I am sure there are many arguments for all of his plays to be classed as the greatest in the individual genres.<br />But, 'The Tempest' was his last play, the one that blends all of the above, and as such, when you really study it, it has to be his finest.'The Tempest' was his last play, the one that blends all of the above, and as such, when you really study it, it has to be his finest.	2002-02-28
US	50323648	R11BQNN3NY7S91	0425177173	842248212	Atlantis Found (Dirk Pitt, No. 15)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Marvellous	The 15th installment of Dirk Pitt has 'borrowed' the Atlantis underneath the Antartic theory to spectacular effect. Thrown in with several superships, the villains, beautiful women and plenty of undersea escapades with Al Giordino this is a great addition to the series.<BR>The best thing about the latest novels is you simply have to read them in one go. Good beach novels, train novels - anywhere you have time to fill from the humdrum of daily life.<BR>I eagerly await the next one after Valhalla Rising.	2002-02-26
US	50323648	R3533QCCOU2LKK	0812210476	780359186	Sumerian Mythology	Books	4	61	67	N	N	Out of date but still worth reading	Any piece of scholarship that has a preface that baldly states that quite a bit of the following translations are wrong immediately throws out warning signals.<BR>However, this is quite a useful handbook, even if the author pointedly tells the reader that &quot;History begins at Sumer&quot; is more accurate. It has that touch that encompasses all ancient historical secondary sources written in the early part of the twentieth century - a narrative style, whereby it is just as important to provide both a description of actions and a background of the people and methods that got the several thousand clay tablets translated.<BR>Given today's somewhat dry &quot;facts, facts, facts&quot; attitude of most ancient historians, it is most refreshing because understanding those who compiled the work gives a better understanding of the translation.<BR>The book excellently gives a rundown of the pantheon of Sumerian Gods, the acculturation of Sumerian mythology into Semitic and translates a goodly portion (sometimes inaccurately as the preface warns!) of the tablets.<BR>Whilst any serious Sumerian scholar must move on to latter translations and works, this is a good starting point, particularly for those wanting to see a 'decipherment' in progress.	2002-02-25
US	50323648	R36MY6ULXO97TP	0345440781	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Different to the 4 epics	This one-off book clearly comes across as a single volume paraphrase of any of the Belgariad, Elenium, Mallorean or Tamuli. Given the style of the Eddings' narrative, with its flowing sense of the epic and excellent characterisations, it is no wonder that this 'short story' (for them) comes across as cramped.<BR>The immediate thought is (with Leigh's name on it), is how much did Leigh Edding's write? Then you invariable wonder exactly what her input to the four series was.<BR>Irrespective, the Redemption of Athalus, manages to shrink any of the four series into one book and shrink each of those characters' traits into fewer people. No mean feat, even if you don't like it.<BR>The novel displays all of Eddings style, wit and charm. Yes, it is like reading the Belgariad in fewer pages, and perhaps this proves that their style is better suited to five-book grandiose epics. But, without a doubt, it is the Eddings, it is as brilliant as ever compared to the rest of the current offerings.<BR>So four stars because it is no Elenium (or the others), but it is still a good offering from one of the best fantasy authors out there.	2002-02-22
US	50323648	R3NL68BUZ3GQJJ	0380803232	85000071	Krondor the Assassins (The Riftwar Legacy, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good.. ish	This comes across as one of those books of the film. Or, more accurately, book of the game. You can see Feist itching to burst out of the constraints of setting that games peculiarly impose. In the 2nd installment after Betrayal, we step back in time from the SerpentWar Saga to a time of Jimmy the Hand and Krondor under threat from assassinations.<BR>It is probably a much needed delve into the world of the Mockers and no doubt Feist's hand brings a game formula onto some parity with a standard fantasy novel offering. Its just you expect so much more from a master of the genre.<BR>So, if you are a fan of Feist read it. But be aware that it is no Magician.	2002-02-22
US	50323648	R1J6QTS9SGXCF4	0671521101	300599240	Sahara	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fabulous as ever	My Grandad got me into Cussler. I'd eagerly wait for him to finish the latest installment, so I could then read it. <BR>Now I can buy my own copy and with Sahara, Cussler is as brilliant as ever. Dirk foils a plot to wipe out all sea life, rescues the beautiful Eva Rojas and takes on a bunch of cannibals. It is all delivered with the direct panache of all Cussler novels and even though you know it's all going to end well, its how Dirk achieves it that makes it so much fun. A true thriller.	2002-02-22
US	50323648	R2LCOUADOZ81QL	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Not a thriller at all	First of Mr Perez-Reverte's books I have ever read and, unfortunately, the last for a good while. The cover boldly claims that it is: &quot;A marvelous thriller - a seafaring mystery that is a clasic of its genre&quot;.<BR>I'm not sure how the reviewer came to that conclusion.<BR>I put this aside no less than six times before finally making it to the unveiling of the narrator at page 364 at which point it began to display thriller-esque potential. Then it ended 102 pages later most disappointingly with an obvious climax.<BR>The book is very well written and, as the inside leaf accurately claims, is a &quot;highly intelligent and meticulously plotted novel&quot;<BR>The protagonists, Coy and Tanger are just too inaccessible, despite the fact that the majority of the novel is told from Coy's sea-weary perspective, mixed with a touch of the brutal. His incessant lust for Tanger is shadowed by a complete lack of explanation as to her character. She almost becomes superficial. El Pilote is far better drawn, as is Kiskoros and Palermo. A case of better supporting actors.<BR>So, yes, well written, well-researched.<BR>But not a thriller at all.	2002-02-22
US	50323648	R1F3KJ86PJ4WVN	0316358428	966566185	The Castafiore Emerald (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Funniest but not the best	The Castafiore Emerald is without a doubt the funniest Tintin. But it's not the best. The reason is, it is solely confined to Marlinspike and Castafiore is truly irritating. However, it does give Captain Haddock full license to swear like the old sea dog he is. The ending is not climatic but you see why Herge had to write it. Castafiore has been around for a long time (since King Ottokar's Sceptre) and not to write a book that centered on her would have meant many fan's letters asking for such.<br />A gem.	2002-02-22
US	50323648	R1FPWBEZEBOTFV	0872204367	529959770	Classics of Western Philosophy	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Necessary for any philosophy student	I must confess my review is about the third edition, but it got me through understanding many a dry philosophical lecture. The book encompasses many of the great philosophical minds of in western history - the usual Greek medley plus other greats such as Locke, Descartes, Spinoza.<BR>Each set of highlighted works is prefaced by a small biography.<BR>If current western philosophical college curricula is anything to go by this book brings the relevant philosophers together in one place and thus forms a vital part of any student's bookshelf.	2002-02-19
US	50323648	R2INWEZZJ3VDXU	0964432900	551796570	The Quest for Longitude: The Proceedings of the Longitude Symposium Harvard University, Cambridge,  Massachusetts November 4-6, 1993	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A must-have	This beautifully presented large hardback is actually a series of essays covering the story of the search for Longitude from the 16th century to the 19th. The essays deal with a range of subjects from the mathematical to the absurd, from astronomy to cartography and has 4 excellent appendices. The book is well laid out with both black&amp;white and color photography in a manner that means you don't need to be a student of the sea of chronology to understand it. A good book to have on the shelf.	2002-02-19
US	50323648	R1T1RJET42ZL6R	0892817127	319325607	The Temples of Karnak	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A vital piece of Egyptology	I bought this as a gift for my wife but on flicking through it myself have found it stirred a mixture of curiosity and wonder. It is primarily a book with plates of the Temple at Karnak, but it has a good opening section on the history of the area, a nice outlay on each of the royal cartouches and, after the plates themselves, a interesting commentary.<BR>The book is not intended as a discussion on Karnak. It is the culmination of several years hard work photographing and documenting the temple. As a primary source it is already invaluable, for to have such a feast of photographs in one book is rare.<BR>Any Egpytologist or student of the area must possess this book because the Temple of Karnak is there in all its glory to look at. If it had some color plates then so much the better but that is hardly a detraction on an immensely fine piece of work.	2002-02-19
US	50323648	R2MY6ITH84MQD1	0316358347	742524846	Red Rackham's Treasure (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fabulous	Tintin is great. I never tire of re-reading him.<BR>Red Rackham's Treasure sees our erstwhile hero gallivanting off with Snowy, Captain Haddock and the Thompson Twins after the adventures outlined in \\"Secret of the Unicorn'. In this book we are introduced to the absent-minded Professor Calculus - it's always great to see how the drawing of characters change after a couple of adventures! - and his amazing shark submarine. Suffice it to say, deep-sea diving, bottles of rum, the odd shark, all lead to the golden treasure in a most unexpected place.<BR>Everyone should read Tintin and this adventure is one of the best.	2002-02-19
US	50323648	RXJWE9PPB7NR4	0842329277	499654908	Assassins: Assignment Jerusalem, Target AntiChrist (The Left Behind Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good series	Assassins picks up the series without pausing, the safe house of Floyd, Rayford, Chloe, Buck, Tsion and the newcomer Leah continuing the fight against Nicolae Carpathia. This time several of the characters wrestle with the foretold killing of the Potentate as to who might be directed to perform the deed. In fact we are left with a cliffhanger making you reach eagerly for the next installment.<BR>An assortment of faithful supporting actors all contribute to the tension. Only one 'plague' is visted in this episode (well two, if you count the earthquake after the murders of Moishe and Eli) - that of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (or Four Fallen Angels of the Euphrates, to follow the authors). It is particularly well told this 'plague'. You can really see the two million horsemen sweeping the globe in all their terrible glory. What works brilliantly at the conclusion is the voice from heaven.<BR>The development of Leon Fortunato is welcomed and you begin to pity his naivety whilst gaining frustration with the stupidity of Chaim. The only minor problem with this installment is Rayford's sudden discomposure and unease of mind. It just doesn't match the preceding novels development of his character and given their is no real explanation for it, to my mind, is not believable. Nevertheless, another fine installment in an engrossing series. On to the next one!	2002-02-16
US	50323648	R343AFPZCXY0P8	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Brilliant as ever	Cussler may be formulaic but who cares? It works superbly every time. Dirk Pitt is fabulous. The moden James Bond, he foils the baddies, gets the girl, jokes incessantly with his sidekick, flies, drives and still has time to be a antique car buff.<BR>This latest installment sees Dirk meddle with a fearsome Norse corporate head, throws in the Viking discovery of America and Captain Nemo all at once and still comes off as a rollicking good yarn.<BR>Just the thing to read for excitement and adventure. Long may Mr Cussler continue.	2002-02-15
US	50323648	R1VPQ1LHPIHHRQ	0679423087	620361333	1-2-3: The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire: Volumes 1-3 of 6 (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Standard reading	Gibbon's Decline - whilst ancient history scholars of today will recognise the challenges in the theories which are, understandably, outdated with current knowledge of the subject - is a book that should be read not just for its subject matter but as a great exponent of historiography.<br />Ancient History scholars - don't take it as a precise secondary source. Everyone else should a)have it on their shelves, b)have read it.	2002-02-14
US	50323648	RERNY0FALMXMD	0761122745	517932958	Non Campus Mentis: World History According to College Students	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb toilet book	This book is hilarious. It's one of those you inevitably finding yourself crying with laughter over. However, once you've done that a few times it invariably loses its appeal as you know them all off by heart.<BR>Put it in your downstairs restroom and you'll know why your dinner guests inexplicably disappear for hours from the laughing.	2002-02-14
US	50323648	RPSFO59F9IIYH	0226067157	98018874	Ancestor of the West : Writing, Reasoning, and Religion in Mesopotamia, Elam, and Greece	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Very good	This book is actually three essays. Each essay is split into several subject matters and thus becomes a neat secondary source for any student of the subject at hand.<BR>The first, by Jean Bottero, is superbly crafted for the general reader who wishes to learn more about, as he says: &quot;History begins at Sumer&quot;. The language does not, unlike Clarisse Herrenschmidt's second essay, presuppose a detailed knowledge of the subject at hand. Bottero outlines his premise that Mesopotamian culture is a direct descendant of  Semite (Akkadian mainly) acculturation of Sumerian culture. He argues that writing evolved as a mnemotechnical device beginning with ideograms and pictograms. He gives a pellucid explanation of the definition of religion, stating it presupposes a belief in the 'sacred' or 'supernatural'. I.e. a higher order that manifests itself in two ways: Either through religiosity - a reverence or love for the order, or centrifrugally - a fear of the order. What is particularly good about Bottero's writing is he makes statements and then spends some time explaining clearly what the terms of his statement mean. For example, many scholars would state  the Mesopotamian religion was not historical and leave it at that. Bottero gives a concise and very understandable definition of the term.<BR>The second, by Clarisse Herrenschmidt, far more than Bottero, presupposes knowledge of the subject at hand. Therefore, it is slightly less accessible to the general reader. Given her essay is the longest of the three this is a shame. Nevertheless, Herrenschmidt opens, spending considerable time explaining why proto-Elamic is untranslatable and then tends to run away like any excellent scholar into the intricacies of language and its development from the consonant alphabet to the Greek vowel-using alphabet of eighth century Athens, to the detriment of the general reader who will invariably get lost along the way in the tricky twists and turns of intellectual theorizing. Aside from that, the essay has a long discussion the development of consonants and states that an alphabet is ruled by the rule - one sign = one sound. Not entirely sure I agree with that, as the english alphabet has many variances of sound on its letters. Anyhow, there is an excellent brief history of the technical evolution of writing and its links to social recognition. Herrenschmidt basically states that, in a barbaric society, (which she never really defines) speech = power. From here Herrenschmidt goes on to major discussion on the Mazdean Avesta and from there to Greek. She ends by saying Greek was the language of culture, Aramaic the vernacular, and Hebrew that of the sacred corpus. The concluding section places far too much emphasis on the Greek dropping of the aspirated 'h' in eta c.403 B.C; for example, in the statement: &quot;They thus prohibited the privatization of breath through writing, because speech was for everyone and that included the gods.&quot;  What exactly does that mean? So, Herrenschmidt's essay is for the advanced student of ancient writing, not the general reader, particularly given its immense `mathematical' and `analytical' approach to the subject.<BR>The third, by Jean Pierre Vermont, is much akin to Bottero's in style and, therefore, far more accessible than Herrenschmidt. The main thrust is to discover the origins of the Greek world given the 4 centuries of literary darkness after the collapse of Mycenae around the 12th century B.C to the appearance of the Greek hegemony in the 9th century B.C. He indicates that Greece moved from a society of the oral to the written and that its religion was governed by two facts: a polis with its own tutelary god and the general pantheon `managed' from centers such as Delphi. Vermont places (rightly so) much emphasis on the introduction of prose in the 6th century B.C. and its subsequent consequences in that it meant philosophical discourses moved from the realm of the intellectual - much in the same wayHerrenschmidt states that Persian cuniform was retained because its complexity gave individuals power over the whole with sacred texts - to the common people. Hesiod's Theogony is heavily drawn on by Vermont to demonstrate his thesis that the evolution in Greek writing was tied to a shift in social power. What becomes more interesting is the realization that the form of writing was influenced by a maturing need for catography. Vermont moves on to a discussion on the polis and the invention of the political and democracy. There is a good two page opener on the definition of the very word `democracy' and the section ends up being somewhat semantical as it proceeds from there. Inevitably, as any serious scholar must do, Vermont dives briefly in to the Laws of Solon and thence into Homer. <BR>To conclude, any student of ancient writing, reasoning and religion must read these essays. They are precise, clear and extremely good at their given niches. The general reader will find it very informative and Bottero and Vermont can be read by anyone with a rudimentary grasp of the ancient history. Herrenschmidt might become too involved with detailed knowledge of her subject matter.	2002-02-13
US	50323648	R39PJRFW97AQ2	0140440720	437473421	The Twelve Caesars (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remember it's a biographical work!	Suetonius' Twelve Lives (or alternative titles) is an excellent primary source for people wanting to learn more about the biographical sides of the emperors of Rome. Any serious student will recognise that most of the Lives are not contemporary and are filled with the choicest gossip - current theory is that Suetonius is responsible for the extremely bad press Tiberius unfairly gets. What comes across most about Suetonius is a reminder that primary ancient sources are just as liable as twenty-first ones to suffer from bias, but nonetheless it is a remarkable work.<BR>Robert Graves translation is the finest out there, which is why this version is the standard.	2002-02-13
US	50323648	R30RJLE56XBYN2	0395489326	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Box Set	Rather than reviewing Lord of the Rings, which has been done many times by many people with a finer grasp of describing the wonder of the best book of the twentieth century than I, I shall remain content to say that this boxed set is neatly presented with Alan Lee's fine artwork on the outside. Many readers will find copies of Tolkien get rapidly dog-eared from frequent use so to have a box set that can be kept in a prominent place on the shelf is nice. It is also well-priced for its new design.	2002-02-13
US	50323648	RL46L7U1ZY3R	0553575651	331407913	Ship of Destiny (The Liveship Traders, Book 3)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Worth reading	Robin Hobb's novels always leave me mildly disappointed. Her technical ability is very good, her characterisation and scene setting always top-notch.<BR>It's just the plots.<BR>They tend to be weak.<BR>Don't get me wrong, the entire Ship series has been very good. She has successfully done a fantasy version of C S Forester or Patrick O'Brian when it comes to depicting the sea and life on it. There is a great deal of the vital swashbuckle and it smoothly transforms from sea to land.<BR>Indeed the only poor character in the entire series is that of Satrap Cosgo's companion - Serilla. The character is not developed enough.<BR>However, the concept that the liveships are in fact un-metamorphosed dragon memories is a new one and one that has so much more potential than Hobb realises. The Liveship characters are also superb, Paragon and Vivacia are extremely well-developed and you feel everything they do. Kennit, Wintrow and Etta end up becoming the primary characters partway through, and justifably so.<br />There could have been so much more. You knew what the plot was going to be before it ended and Tintaglia ended up being more bluster than dragon.<BR>So, if you like the fantasy genre, buy it and read it. Characterisation is superb, narrative excellent, it is probably the finest attempt at seafaring fantasy out there right now. But the weakly obvious plot means no five star rating.	2002-02-12
US	50323648	RUSJ5HSWI6ULJ	0140434704	205100834	Romola (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	53	59	N	N	Definitely worth her "best blood"	Given the majority of Eliot readers begin with Middlemarch, I found myself in the unique position of not only beginning with Romola, but also on a subject that I find most interesting. That of Renaissance Italy. Beginning at the death of the great Lorenzo di Medici in '92 I read this great novel twice. Once quickly as any other Twenty-First century paperback; the second, slowly, with more respect for the intellectual scope within the pages.<br />After the first attempt I was mildly disappointed. I came away with no true sense of the whole that is fifteenth century Florence and a bewilderment at the inconsistent central characterisation of Tito Melema and his golden-haired wife, Romola. The supporting actors were brilliant, from Fra Girolama's fantatical Catholicism to Bratti's salesmanship. But I was left disappointed, believing in the superficality of Tito, the maddening naivety of Tessa, and the almost puritanical martyrdom of Romola.<br />So I re-read it. Slowly.<br />It is now extremely clear why this great work of english literature is, as Eliot herself puts it, a \\"book of mine which I more thoroughly feel that I swear by every sentence as having been written with my best blood\\".<br />Each scene is mesmerically depicted, the infintesimal attention to details and Eliot's total control of her subject matter shines through.<br />Renaissance Florence wasn't so well depicted by its contemporaries.<br />From Tito's waking at the Loggia de' Cerchi to his final fall at the Ponte Vecchio his character moves through a full range as you would expect from a man in his early twenties. His child-like mesmerism coupled with his Greek tutorage gives rise to a cherubic man whom Florence loves. His fatal flaw is his desire for love and a single terrible lie he gives that, like Murphy's Law, evolves into a a stigma that alters his very persona. What is all the more damaging is that you truly believe he is unaware of the pain he causes. He is truly egocentric, in an almost blameless way. For Romola, you cold argue the opposite. Indeed she is potentially more culpable. Her fierce intellectualism is offset by a descent into a world of religious supersition, a world where religion is used as a political tool. Throughout she has the knowledge of where her actions will take her and a terrible sense of duty and restrains her. From the beginning, with the story we hear so often of Tito's escape from drowning, to his final near drowning at the hands of the mob, to his strangulation by his father there is a certain bitter justice until all that he leaves is his proud and world-scarred wife Romola and the innocence that he preserved with Tessa. Tito's move from innocent 'hero' to startled villain is an excerise in human failings. Yet it is not a sufficient single human tragedy, as Eliot says, \\"Florence was busy with greater affairs, and the preparation of a deeper tragedy\\".<br />In many respects `Romola' is Eliot's King Lear. The parallels are many, including Baldessare's depiction. There is no Edgar, nor Edmund but the Fool is here in many guises. In taking one of Shakespeare's finest themes, Eliot has given true life to fifteenth century Florence and it is, perhaps, best encapsulated by Romola's final statement to Tessa's son, Lillo:<br />\\"There was a man to whom I was very near... who made almost everyone fond of him, for he ws young, and clever, and beautiful...I believe, when I first knew him, he never thought of anything cruel or base. But because he tried to slip away from everything that was unpleasant, and cared for nothing else so much as his own safety, he came at last to commit some of the basest deeds - such as make men infamous.\\"<br />So, Eliot's `Romola'. Read it, delight in it because it truly is, as the author can rightly claim, one of the finest works in english literature.	2002-02-10
US	50323648	RSP8EPQPVB1E6	0345377516	129539868	Photographing Fairies	Books	4	5	12	N	N	Delightful	This novel harks back to the joy you felt as a child reading C.S Lewis' Narnia series. Mixed in with a bit of first world war Britain.<BR>The author has taken the Cottingdale Fairy myth and added some magic. The film is also one that any child will delight in and the ending, without giving it away is tidy.<BR>I'd strongly recommend this book for anyone with an interest in the faerie realm, or a young child who is wide-eyed and loves to her stories about magic, love, and, above all, fairies.	2002-02-10
US	50323648	R3JO6D8058VVPS	0330344773	936813364	Virgin Territory: A Roman Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Effusive	All of Todd's Claudia Seferius Roman series veritably glow with life. She comes across as the party girl's Agatha Christie with flair; stumbling from incident to incident with naught but luck and startling good looks and ready tongue to negotiate both her's and Drusilla's way out of danger. An imperfect heroine with an undeniable infatuation of the noble Orbilio (disingenously desribed as a 'policeman') Todd manages to set her murder mysteries in Rome with minimal care for historical accuracy. Gone is the Roman mater, in is the twenty-first century party girl.<BR>To be fair you can see the development in Todd's writing through the series and her latest (Black Salamander) finds Claudia moving out of Rome, but, unlike another great author, Lindsey Davies, her mysteries depend on the character rather than the setting so Claudia travels rather better than Falco.<BR>Any mystery afficionado should have these on the shelves. They are delightful.	2002-01-31
US	50323648	R1E525O9EA9P7I	0748662960	318175385	Spartacus (Polygon Lewis Grassic Gibbon Series)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Immensely rich	Lewis Grassic Gibbon (or James Leslie Mitchell) has written a novel of Spartacus that is as refreshing as it is clearly one of the forerunners of historical fiction. Opening through the eyes of the eunuch Kleon and his mission to find the heroic leader of the Slaves the novel centers more around Spartacus 'inner circle' and his relationship with Elpinice. Book I is told through Kleon and deals with the period up to the defeat after the Battle of the Lake. Books II and III with Spatracus' victories until we move towards the well-known and inexorable end on the Appian way at the hands of Marcus Licinius Crassus at the end of Book VI. The novel ends as it begins, with Kleon, and his crucifixion<BR>The novel is well written, well-paced and pauses sufficiently to voice greater philospohical views than historical novels of the current generation. It is easy to see why this has been heralded as one of the great novels of its genre.	2002-01-24
US	50323648	R25G1XSBTD5VPZ	0226042715	224552974	Plato's "Laws": The Discovery of Being	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Complex but worth the effort	The hardback coverleaf tells us that Plato's Laws was his \\"longest, and one of his most difficult\\".<BR>It is the same with this work. It is clear from the opening pages that the author is writing from a position of immense knowledge on the subject matter and what is essentially a critical reading of Plato is, in itself, almost as intellectual. It is a book that requires every single line to be read and even re-read to understand what is being intimated. The opening chapter on the Eidetic and the Genetic draws on the conversation between Clinias Megillus and an unknown Athenian.. Where it immediately becomes difficult is in comprehending the smenatics behind the author's statement that if Plato's Laws is a prelude to laws then the first three books are a prelude to the laws of Magnesia and the Athenian's initial proposal is a prelude to the prelude that is Plato's Laws. You see how precise the language becomes and how clarity of meaning is essential to undestand the book as a whole, as it continues in the same vein.<BR>The author has produced a work of astonishing intellectual depth and, as such, it is clearly intended for the classical philosophical student of Plato. It is a book that will become a reference text, for to read it in one go would invariably mean losing the true meaning of the critical work, in the same way you shouldn't attempt to read the Laws in one sitting. Highly recommended for any Platonist.	2002-01-24
US	50323648	R1KEXL5UK4K0X7	0671704656	147844738	Treasure	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Still brilliant	I picked this up again on a second-hand book shelf in a local hospital having read it when it first came out. Fourteen years later it hasn't lost any of its appeal. Brilliantly narrated with quick precise action, the James Bond-esqe 'joie de vivre' and panache of Dirk Pitt means he is the modern Indiana Jones. The plot weaves as intricately as ever from the Roman galleys in Tunisia to modern day Mexico without any let up. The formula is the same as ever, the results we already know but it's how Cussler delivers his hero's victory against the odds with his faithful sidekick and NUMA friends that makes these still readable after all this time	2002-01-23
US	50323648	RXEKJEG34THFD	0140441921	301772964	The Book of the Courtier (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	75	84	N	N	Renaissance Classic	Whether or not this work can be considered relevant in today's society is not a factor here. As a testimony to fifteenth century Italian Court Life it is unparalleled.<BR>This delightful four-part book at the social nobility of the Italian Renaissance opens with an apology by Baldesar on the quality of his writing. Something that was clearly debated after Petrarch, Dante and Boccaccio as there is somewhat of a lengthier side discussion on the merits of using the vernacular in written speech partway through the first `book'.<BR>The `handbook' opens with the matriarchal Duchess ordering that a game be played and that signora Emilia decide the nature of it. It is first set to Count Lodovico to describe those qualities best attributed to a courtier with the rest of the `players' questioning or discussing his points further. <BR>The Count states that a good courtier should possess charm, be handsome, be of noble birth, modest, physically fit, be good at sports, should both observe and imitate those good qualities of other courtiers, be a good dancer, have an appreciation of music, letters and art, not be affectatious, be an above average scholar in the humanities and that his first and truest profession be that of arms. Quite a long section is taken with a development on the theory of writing and letters which has many references to the desired quality of those in the ancient world. Indeed, Castiglione holds up those practices of the ancient world in high esteem as being worthy of the perfect courtier.<BR>The second book is to be continued by Duke Federico as to how and when the courtier should put the desired courtier qualities into practice. Castiglione prefaces the second book with a justification of why old people see the future as a depraved version of their golden era - almost a youth's retort to the aged question of rebelliousness.<BR>Federico opens by stating he believes the courtier should be considered, virtuous and adhere to certain rules. Above all else he must have good judgment. The second book is frequently `territorial' in nature, particularly in the section espoused by Bernardo Bibbiena on the three types of pleasantries. Namely:  long and amusing narrative ; spontaneous thrust of a cutting remark (including puns) ; practical jokes. It is in the latter, which includes tales, that the poking of fun at inhabitants of various cities (for example, Sienans, Fiorentines, Brescians) occurs. Federico earlier makes mention that no young man should attempt wisdom and that no courtier should socialize overly with those beneath his station taking care in choosing your associates. The second `book' is effectively in two parts - Duke Federico's discussion on the rules of courtiership, Bernardo's discussion of the three types of pleasantries with many anecdotes to prove his points and then finishes with a epilogue discussing those practical jokes played by women after Gaspare denounces the practice.<BR>This proves a neat lead in to the third book for the Magnifico Giuliano to discuss fashioning a Court lady. As signora Emilia puts it: \\"To prove it, consider that virtue is feminine whereas vice is masculine.\\"<BR>The third book is prefaced by Castiglione with short discourse on the superiority of the Court of Urbino to all the other Courts of Italy. The Magnifico then addresses the Duchess directly stating that a woman must not \\"resemble a man as regards her ways, manners, words, gestures and bearing.\\" and must be beyond reproach or suspicion. He draw many parallels with the perfect courtier, then espouses excellence in subject knowledge, discretion, prudence purity, magnanimity, and appearance. The Magnifico then gives us many stories about great women, ancient stories from Camma to Argentina, from Roma toTheodolina, Theodora and Mathilda, medieval queens such as Eleanora of Aragon, Isabella of Naples, Tomyris of Scythia and many more. He continues with examples of continence, before finally ending his discussion by stating the greatest thing a Court Lady must know, is how to conduct a discussion on love.<BR>The fourth book is prefaced with a lament for several of those parties at the discussion who are now dead. The fourth book is mainly a discussion by Ottaviano giving an end to the perfect courtier. Namely that he be able to please his Prince and how to liaise with and deal with him It ends more as discussion on the nature of Princes. What Castiglione seems to be intimating is that the perfection of a courtier is determined by his Prince rather than by a standard set of rules. The discussion sidetracks into a discourse on the nature of evil and how to recognize and act on it. It links the concepts of agism and vanity to this discussion with several interjections from the oldest member of the group, Morello. The fourth book ends with a move towards discussion of divine love and there it ends. Whether Castiglione meant to continue or not is uncertain. <BR>Two things leap out about this courtier handbook: <BR>The first is how often Castiglione chooses to address the side issue of semantics, rhetoric and grammar. It was clearly an important topic of the age and more time is spent on that single theme that any other.<BR>The second is the constant reference to the ancient world an an ideal to be lived to. Particularly classical figures such as Alexander. This is not surprising given Jacob Bruckhardt's later 1860 essay on the Civilisation of Renaissance Italy, also refers to the \\"Revival of Antiquity' of the time.<BR>What does comes across very clearly in this book is George Bull's refined translation keeps in mind the nature of the subject matter and in itself espouses courtiership. It is precise yet fluid in its translating and can be considered the best english rendering of this great Italian Renaissance work to date. This work is a must-read for any serious student of Renaissance Italy.	2002-01-23
US	50323648	R18CIWMLFKA23E	0679413359	58983679	The Aeneid (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Incomparable	It's Virgil's answer to Homer. It's Rome's answer to Troy.Virgil may have imitated Homer, but he did not imitate his language and this remains the finest example of literary genius in the Latin language. It has been splendidly translated in this Everyman edition.	2002-01-18
US	50323648	R10RHJNYUS89AU	073225857X	750801430	The Wayfarer Redemption Trilogy: Sinner Book 1	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Read this series	Sara Douglass is intriguing. The BattleAxe Trilogy begins like any other Jordan or Eddings but quickly matures to stand alone from the rest of the genre. It is almost as though Douglass' writing becomes more confident as her world and characters develop.<BR>Sinner is an extension of this series, doing the usual taking of the first series characters' children and plunging into a bigger and better world of threatened sorcery and extinction. Unlike other series you aren't left thinking &quot;it's not quite the same, it's 'The Next Generation' and my lovable characters are now gone&quot;.<BR>The development of the race of the Icarii (a nice development of the Greek Icarus myth) through this series and the mixing of the bloodlines in Axis and Azhure's children promises to build to a tremendous climax. With Wolfhere's constant intriguing this promises to be an excellent series continuation	2002-01-18
US	50323648	R2TKB4MS909WU1	0743400682	889034212	Farther Than Any Man: The Rise and Fall of Captain James Cook	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Exquisitely written	This biography is phenomenal. It describes the three great voyages of Captain James Cook (no middle initial!) without claiming pretensions as to why he acted in the manner he did. It tells his life story and why he has left an indelible mark on the history of exploration. It also makes strong reference to the 'rags to metaphorical riches' theme.<BR>The biography opens with a quick run through of his early life and then is in three sections, each dealing with the voyages. Interspersed are details about the love of his life - his wife Elisabeth, and his dealings with Sandwich and Banks.<BR>The narrative is superb and you are literally on the Endeavour, the Resolution with the 'People', one of the crew seeing the Pacific as it unfolds. You literally get a sense of the wonder and unknown excitement seeping through the pages.<BR>I couldn't put it down and whilst this is my first foray into Cook and, therefore, I can't compare it to other biographies/histories that deal with him for accuracy and in-depth character analysis, this book is a must-read. It is enormously refreshing and delightful. Perhaps it is a beginner biography for him but it is one of the finest biographies I have read in the past two years. I look forward to the author producing more.	2002-01-15
US	50323648	R2H54C0S7JX5AP	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Epic	Jordan's Wheel of Time series has taken the fantasy epic and given it fresh direction. The characters are entirely plausible, their actions and reactions in this hugely developed world are accurate and believable. The sheer scale of the series makes it worth reading. It is up there with any top ten fantasy series you must read.	2002-01-11
US	50323648	R2X1252UWUP8LW	1559706015	879579713	The Freemasons: A History of the World's Most Powerful Secret Society	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Left  needing more	This is the first book on the subject I have read and to my what this book doesn't do is go into the rituals and dealings of the Freemasons. It literally is, as it claims, a history.<br />The book seems to concern itself more with taking focal points in history and determining how many freemasons were involved. It came across, therefore, as a general history of the world at the points at which freemasons pop up in, rather than history of freemasonry.<br />At a purely technical level it comes across as fragmented and this is further echoed in the fact that the book is not singly thematic. It is both chronological, geographical, sociological, and political in its chapters and the reader suffers from lack of consistency. A good example is on page 54 of the hardcover version. It moves abruptly from talking about Maria Theresia to a John Coustos without pausing breath. I had to check several times there weren't missing pages for I could see no link, no chapter end, nothing. This occurs throughout the book and prevents it from having true fluidity. Indeed the history comes across as anecdotal at times (humorously so in the case of Chevalier d'Eon).<br />Simply put, the book is far too disjointed. Half way through it becomes (on almost a paragraph by paragraph basis) a collection of historical anecdotes, each culminating with who was a freemason and who wasn't.<br />There was no theory or conjecture as to how much the concepts, doctrines and beliefs of freemasonry dictated those peoples actions and thereby potentially altered history.<br />What you end up with is purely a chronology of who was and wasn't a freemason at various historical points.<br />Maybe Ridley was intimating that freemasonry today has arrived at its present perception through a combination of chance and circumstance dictated by others through history. What the book does state quite clearly is that people in power dislike secret societies for fear of fomenting sedition.<br />So, only 3 stars because if you want to know who was a freemason and who wasn't at major points in history, then this book is for you. What this book doesn't do is show how freemasonry may have influenced the actions of those historical figures.	2002-01-10
US	50323648	R3N1UDORTDK7QD	0451457803	201826021	On the Oceans of Eternity	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous	This is my first delve into alternative history and I must say it has left me wanting more. Maybe I was lucky in that it reverts to a preriod of history that I am interested in (the Bronze Age, more specifically around the time of the Trojan War) but I simply could not put the trilogy down. The characters are superbly out of their depth in this new world, adapting and shifting to realities. The characterisations of known historical figures is entirely plausible and the series comes across much bigger in depth and perception than it really is.<BR>Perhaps people will say this is the finest example of its genre, I don't know. Suffice it to say, if Stirling doesn't continue this series it will be an immense shame.	2002-01-08
US	50323648	R27QM92TL5CFM9	0880385480	695622507	The Legend of Huma (Heroes, Volume 1)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Usual stuff	To be honest, this is exactly the same as the rest of the Dragonlance spinoffs. Nowhere near the Weis &amp; Hickman series but sufficient for Dragonlance enthusiasts and Dragonlance gamers needing some direction. Buy it if you're an avid fan only.	2002-01-08
US	50323648	R3JEMQUBNFNHUR	0743434366	822446139	1: Alexander: Child of a Dream	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Intriguing retelling	I picked this up as I was exiting a bookstore. It caught my eye (probably the red cover with \\"Alexander\\" scrawled across it that did it) and having never read a fictionalized account of Alexander (other than that by Arrian) thought I'd give it a go:<BR>It reads like the book version of a film. <BR>The characters and settings are lavish, utopic and somewhat fanciful. It is almost as though the author has seen a film about Alexander, (hopefully the forthcoming one featuring Mr di Caprio will be good) gone to a couple of lectures on Alexander, taken some chronologically key notes and then written it all down. It is always interesting to read fictional works by such accomplished scholars and this is no exception. What Manfredi achieves, though I have my doubts as to its accuracy, is to portray ancient Macedonia in a Hollwood-esque manner. Maybe Hollywood is right. I hope not.<BR>Anyhow, the novel, in reality, centers more on Philip II and his desire to create a son worthy of a bigger empire. Manfredi's expounding of the character of Philip is excellent, accurate (insofar as the primary sources we have portray him) and gives logical emotional reasons behind the crafting of Alexander. You come out of this first novel gaining the impression that the real achievement here was by Philip. It will be interesting in the Hand of Ammon to see if Alexander can become his own man. For all his rebelliousness over Eurydice and his forging of a fellowship (again, not sure as to the accuracy of that given it looks like it's been lifted directly from the Roman concept of amicitia and Manfredi is a professor in Italy) you can't help feel that he has no control over his life. At least, not yet.<BR>It is also refreshing to slide the inevitable eroticism themes into the background for a change though it remains to be seen if modern scholastic theory about Alexander and alcohol makes it into the remaining novels.<BR>Not having read the original, I can't comment on the translation but the novel is intriguing enough to ensure I'll read the next one.	2001-12-30
US	50323648	R3N81CDT8WVLCQ	0892967404	573991046	Ode to a Banker	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Maturing brilliantly	If I were to review the Falco installments, Ode to  a Banker would come very near the top of the list. Part of its charm is the subtle differences in Davis' writing. Rather than churning out the same old Falco reactions to everything right down to his meticulous interviewing technique she lends him an almost stressed and bored air to his `informing' this time. <BR>It is far more realistic for it. <BR>Look at Didius' situation: he is happily married with a screaming Julia Junilla and Sosia Favonia to appear, with his family leaning on him as the nominal paterfamilas. Everything has become so much more personal with Anacrites misguided courtship of Maia and bizarre relationship with Ma. If Falco were to remain his professional self in this novel it would simply be untenable.<BR>So, we plunge once more into the murky underworld of Rome and come up against unscrupulous bankers (always it's the freedman with his fingers where they shouldn't be - very Nero-esque) and set against a literary backdrop. You can almost laugh at Davis satiricizing of authors (I wonder if there are some real authors out there that they are based on?) and the entire novel exudes petty bickering with a tired Falco finally yanking all the suspects together for his Agatha Christie-eque denouement.<BR>I cannot fault this installment simply because Davis steps away from the formulaic Falcoisms that were appearnig (it was getting obvious to pinpoint the guilty parties in recent novels) and it came as a surprise to find out who the culprit was,  especially given the punishment.<BR>Read it, delight in it, but don't expect it to be anything like the Silver Pigs era, Falco has matured, become a little more world-weary and his informing reflects it and this installment is all the more better for it.	2001-12-30
US	50323648	R17I7SCJIHHZY1	0312977875	12186643	Last Seen in Massilia: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Impressive as ever	After reading this excellent continuation of the Sub Rosa series I cannot help feel that it was intended as a stop gap, a passing lengthy short story before the series gains a fresh approach. Not the least due to Gordianus' age now. The publishers have maintained their excellent covers but the print is larger, the text thinner and so I was able to read it in two hours.<BR>What Saylor excels at is his dedication to take scenes and events from primary Roman sources and then fictionalise them. He doesn't, as continued in this latest installment, attempt to `write around' Massilia and it takes a deal of contemplation at the end to realise that there are only eight or so settings. Given you put the book down with a complete sense of the city, this is no mean achievement.<BR>As I said, you feel new beginnings are to come from the pen of Saylor now. The casting aside of Meto, Gordinanus' new view of Davus (he almost comes across as a sidekick) and the `single moment in both actual history and the fictional series'  all contribute to a nicely written murder mystery. The murder itself is secondary to the rest of the novel and it almost a careless solving by Gordianus whilst in the midst of so much emotional turmoil just to prove his genius.<BR>I wouldn't be surprised if, after several more Sub Rosa novels, Last Seen In Massilia looks as as though it heralded the ending of an old generation and the beginning of another.<BR>As ever, it is always highly recommended....though, this time, it only gets four stars because its pretty obvious where Meto is and who was pushed off the Sacrifice Rock.	2001-12-30
US	50323648	RKEB7KYRCWTQW	0060194391	388626932	The Keys of Egypt: The Obsession to Decipher Egyptian Hieroglyphs	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent	A thoroughly absorbing book - I managed to read it whilst my wife was in the early stages of being induced. Come the end I was able to put it down and reflect on a first foray into the history of Egyptian Hieroglyphic decipherment. It managed to clear a couple of minor points up for me, such as the difference between hieroglyphs, demotic and hieratic which other books had simply, and somewhat erroneously, assumed I knew. And therein lay their failure and this book's success. If you're a scholar or a doctor, this isn't for you. It is for the average person on the streets who has an interest in the history of what clearly comes across as an obsession to decipher Egyptian Hieroglyphs.<BR>The bickering and snideness that Young brought to the affair set against the political background of France and England gives an air of reality rather than the somewhat dry and musty scholarship lecturers and doctors of history profess is the only true way of disemminating information. This book simply isn't about that.<BR>It begins in almost travelogue style with an account of Napoleon's venture into Eygpt and spends a delightful  opening 40 or so pages irrelevantly giving a chronology of the ill-fated trip. Quite why it took 40 pages to give a tenuous link between Napoloeon and Champollion (other than the suggested revolution at Grenoble later in Champollion's life) I don't know, but it doesn't detract at all. If I wanted to be critical it does seem like the book comprises 8 separately written essays on the history of Egyptian Hieroglyphic decipherment with a bit of glue to hold it all together, but that would be being critical for the sake of it.<BR>Yes, it is not for the discerning scholar, but there are plenty of books out there to satisfy that urge. What this area of study desperately needed, and the Adkins' have provided us with, is a beginner's biography, an exciting glimpse of the reality around the man who is rightly heralded as one of France's greatest scholars. If this to be his biography then the Adkins have achieved something worth reading.	2001-12-18
US	50323648	R2HK54N5C0K5YP	0786709014	591764875	Latitude Zero: Tales of the Equator	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent	A thoroughly enjoyable collection of tales across the equator. Any historical 'travelogue' afficionado should read this. A quick glance at any globe and you might think: &quot;well, there's not much landmass there, so there's bound to be a lot of seafaring tales&quot;. Not true. Confessionably, the book is split 'tween Africa, the Amazon and a dip into the Indonesian Archipelago but each story is paced sufficiently to be readable  at twenty minutes sittings. Ideal, as I found, for that train journey or even on a beach. Not that it's beach material.<BR>It is written with a faintly humorous tone, doesn't take itself too seriously and comes across more as a group of tales told round a campfire about mysterious lands. Its main result is that it leaves you desiring more, so I'm off to look up more titles by these authors, having piqued my interest...	2001-11-26
US	50323648	R4G8BRPLF2U0D	0815411472	589809619	Sulla the Fortunate: Roman General and Dictator	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting	I must confess I read this more for the style of historiography, rather than the accuracy of the content. In the former it lived up to expectation, having that travelogue style to the scholarship that is almost delightfully quaint. Not that there is a problem with that early twentieth century style of history because it is far better at drawing the general reader into a real sense of 'being there' and creating a personality. And therein lies it flaw. As with many other modern historical biographies of its time it lacks the refined historical approach of the contemporary essay, which are in themselves, confessionably dry to read.<BR>So, read it but if you're a serious scholar of Sulla go elsewhere for your information.	2001-11-26
US	50323648	R3OUTRVJOCP5TL	0312193181	763256848	A Plague on Both Your Houses	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Superb	I have now read all of Susanna Gregory's medieval whodunnits (A masterly murder being the latest). They are excellent. I am sure there are many Ellis Peter's fans who will decry them as a poor imitation but they are simply the best out on the market. Admittedly it has taken Ms Gregory 4 novels to really get going and you can almost see the development in the writing skills as you read each one. What makes them good is that the whodunnit is secondary to the character development and microcosm of 14th century Cambridge. By the sixth novel in the series each character is well rounded (certainly in Michael's case!) and consistent with a huge variance of supporting actors. Whilst each murder is a separate mystery in itself the ramifications of each one reaches into the later books and indeed provides clues and reasoning behind the later actions of the Cambridge scholars and townspeople.<BR>Read them...	2001-11-26
US	50323648	R1G4KSSP03Z4FE	0895263858	834327265	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Could have been better	Whilst I concede the Mr Leckie's prose style is easily-paced and therefore Hannibal is the kind of book you could probably read in a single afternoon, all this book really achieves is to prove you cannot write a fictional biography of one of history's most captivating figures in a mere 241 pages. I had high hopes because a full third of those pages dealt with Hannibal's boyhood where the author is at full license to use his imagination given the lack of historical detail for Hannibal. But it almost as though Mr Leckie gets bored and rushes through the end in order to begin writing Scipio. Historical inaccuracies aside, the life of Hannibal deserves a better account than the author has attempted and I think it is safe to say that the definitive fictional biography of Hannibal has yet to be written. If you like historical fiction set in the Roman period buy it, if not, don't.	2001-10-09
US	50323648	R2ZZMQO1YLYMJA	0886778921	359434174	Child of Flame (Crown of Stars, Vol. 4)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Awesome	If you like Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series you love this. Elliot's prose style is the most similar to Jordan's I have come across and matches his concept of a matriarchal dominated society though perhaps not to quite the same degree. It also touches on Sara Douglass' use of the 'we originated from the stars' concept but it blends both elements perfectly into a well written and utterly captivating series. I suspect it'll turn into one of those series you just don't want to ever end.	2001-09-27
US	50323648	R2RR1845PWAOJ7	0521437741	954958298	The Sicilian Vespers: A History of the Mediterranean World in the Later Thirteenth Century (Canto)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Well researched, well written piece of scholastic history	I was pleasantly surprised to find this a well-informed piece of modern historical anayalsis of the later thirteenth Mediterranean history. The book focuses primarily on the careers of both Manfred and Charles and their struggle to maintain an outdated concept of ancient imperialism. More than anything this book clearly shows the final transistions from an autocratical imperial Europe to a papal-dominated fractured set of European vassal states.<BR>It is interesting for its succinct prose and deliberate factual outlay. Rather than seeking to impress upon his own ideas, Runciman deliberately tells us the history from a Latin perspective without impression of telling a story with all its propagandistic baggage. Don't be fooled by the usual publisher gumph on the back. The incident in Palermo in 1282 is used as a focal point for the history rather than being the main point of discussion and the work succeeds all the more for it.<BR>A hugely impressive piece of scholastic history and, I would think, a vital book for any serious student of thirteenth century Mediterranean history.	2001-09-19
US	50323648	R317V10OWLYFIL	0802776175	923264418	The Perfect Heresy: The Revolutionary Life and Death of the Cathars	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Informative book	This book was my first foray into the history of the Cathars and it has provided an immensely useful 'dip' into the muddled religio-political situation that dominated the area  of Modern France during the 12th - 14th Century.<BR>It reads like a novelist's attempt at serious history and is all the more accessible for it. Granted, it left more questions than ones it answered but, as it doesn't come across as a focused piece of scholastic history, it comes across aptly as it appears to have started out - an enthusiastic writer writing about history. This book is not one you will end at as the definitive work on the Cathars but it certainly deserves a place on any bookshelf as a starting point for a fascinating historical period. It can only whet the appetite for further research and, if this is what was intended, the author has succeeded admirably.	2001-09-19
