US	50336855	R15P3PO8MCJWFS	0345396685	12198688	When Christ and His Saints Slept: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Blend of Fact and Fiction	It's difficult to truly blend history and fiction; many authors either add drama or stick so closely to reality that the narrative becomes more history lesson than entertaining.  Penman manages to create a great historical novel that dramatizes a difficult time in English history: the contest in the 12th C for the throne, pitting two cousins, Maude and Stephen, against each other.  Spanning several decades, `While Christ and His Saints Slept' (the title taken from an actual quote of the time) details the -- sometimes literal -- trials and tribulations of one extended family.  The death of the son of Henry I leaves a gap in the succession, one that the `old king' is determined to fill with his daughter Maude, the widow of the German Emperor.  Although England has no legal barring of women from the throne, there are few who would champion a woman's right to rule in this era.  Hence Stephen, a royal cousin, is picked by other factions to succeed Henry.  What follows rips England apart, dividing families and loyalties for over 20 years.  Penman really has a feel for the language and attitude of her characters; although Ranulf, a major player, is fictional, she uses his character to explore the attitudes of/for the Welsh, and as a way to describe the old king's many illegitimate children (many of whom were sons, as was the real Robert, Earl of Gloucester, Maude's half-brother).  Fictional or factual, the author paints a clear picture of the characters: Maude, who is intelligent enough to rule, but her pride destroys any hope of peace with her in power; Stephen, a good man, but a bad king; Robert, who could have, if he were legitimate, ended any succession problems; Matilda, Stephen's wife, whose strength helps keep Stephen in power; Willem de Ypres, a mercenary for Stephen who is a voice of reason unheard; and Ranulf, a young boy at the beginning of the novel who finds himself in the thick of most of the major events in Maude and Stephen's struggle, and who retires fromhistory to Wales. The Afterward relates the history to the fiction, and it may surprise some readers to find that some of the more fantastic episodes in the book actually happened;  for example, at one point, Maude makes a daring winter escape from a castle dressed in white to match the snow: her successful escape drags the conflict on for several years.  A good novel; I would definitely read other books by this author.	2005-10-09
US	50336855	R3HYOM439PFLWC	0451459865	859506600	The Doublecross Program (Star Risk #3)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	More Than Double...How about Quadruple?	Not having read the other book, the first, in this series, it took me a little while to get into the characters depicted in Chris Bunch's novel.  Taking place in the distant future, the members of Star Risk, Ltd, a mercenary group, attempt to make money out of two warring groups in a part of the galaxy far, far away.  The plot starts out simple: the company is hired by one government to actually help them replace money into a bank that was stolen - the government used it for investment purposes without anyone knowing, and now has the money to repay its unofficial loan.  Unfortunately for Star Risk, what seems a simple job turns into a conflict between warring states, both of whom turn out to be corrupt and greedy for maln, a new consumer product that Alliance officials want to spread throughout the galaxy.  The plot has numerous twists and turns, and at times, it's hard to follow exactly what's going on.  The characters are fairly interesting, and it's nice to see two women as vital, leading characters. The most interesting character is Grok, a Chewbaca-like alien, who seems to really enjoy killing.  However, the battle scenes drag the book down, and I found I wasn't caring a lot about the fate of the main characters all that much.  Again, perhaps if I had read the other book in the series, I would have had a greater connection to the reality created by the author.	2005-10-09
US	50336855	R3RIB2RT5Y8EKH	0465041264	716095867	Little Red Riding Hood Uncloaked: Sex, Morality, And The Evolution Of A Fairy Tale	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cross-Dressing Wolves and Other Tales	In the best tradition of interdisciplinary studies, this book covers a little bit of everything, first grounded in the well-known fairy tale of `Little Red Riding Hood', which evolved from a cautionary tale for young women in the court of Louis XIV in the 17th C.  In this tale (which is revealed later to possibly be based on an even older story featuring the Grandmother - and a plot found in various Western and Eastern cultures), the `wolf' is not an animal to be avoided, but a wolfish man, intent on deflowering and ruining a young woman who is not wise enough to run away.  From this point, the tale is discussed as it evolves into the sanitized - yet still remarkably gory - children's story of today.  Every character is analyzed, and their transformations by the brothers Grimm to pornography to modern re-telling (the film `Freeway' [1996] is one example) shows how this story still registers in our present world.  Orenstein is an entertaining writer, and the visuals included support her points well - the Heinz salad cream advert is a good example of our modern dark humor: it shows the wolf, still in Grandma's clothes (there's a whole chapter on the cross-dressing wolf), stating how \\"Any food tastes supreme\\" (177) with this condiment!  There's so much material in this book, it's impossible to do it justice in a small review such as this: take my advice, and read this book!	2005-08-26
US	50336855	R3LVT16BXHSK13	0393316041	33679552	Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! (Adventures of a Curious Character)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Curious Adventures in Physics	The subtitle of this work is `Adventures of a Curious Character' - an apt description of Richard Feynman, physicist and Nobel Prize winner.  Although the narrative is not purely chronological, and certain areas of his life are glossed over (his marriages and family life), this is an entertaining and informative glimpse of how Feynman lived his life and more importantly, his thought process.  By his own admission, he thinks in a different way about math and physics, and his `hands-on' practical approach to science is not appreciated by everyone he encounters.  A good example of this is the section on Brazil: although his students there can regurgitate scientific information, they have no clue on its application, or HOW a theory works.  As a teacher myself, I see this every day - students who can memorize, but not analyze.  Other sections of the book deal with his participation on the Manhattan Project, which illustrates the frenzy the US government went through to develop the atomic bomb; Feynman's running theme here is how `fast' everyone worked, despite limited and unfinished laboratories and resources.  Other topics include his safecracking at Los Alamos; his artistic endeavors (the sequel to this book, `What Do YOU Care What Other People Think?' actually includes some of his artwork, which is outstanding); and his varied musical experiences.  To try to encapsulate all the areas covered in this book would be impossible; at times, it's almost a stream of consciousness monologue.  That, however, is what makes the book so entertaining and definitely worth reading.	2005-08-26
US	50336855	R3JX1WRD1ZS2XL	0393320928	406448244	"What Do You Care What Other People Think?": Further Adventures of a Curious Character	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Further Curious Character Adventures	This book, a sequel - of sorts - to `Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!',  continues the autobiographical journey of physicist Richard Feynman (d.1988), and expands on the some of the topics glossed over in the first book.  For example, in his first autobiography, Feynman mentions his first wife, Arlene, and her death at a young age from tuberculosis; here, the story is expanded, \\"assembled over the past ten years out of pieces from six different stories\\", and although this episode was painful for the author, he ended up satisfied with the finished product, and Feynman was \\"happy to share it with others\\" (8).  Other events covered in this book include Feynman's journeys to Switzerland and Japan, and the second part deals with his role in the space shuttle Challenger investigation, which occurred close to his death from cancer in 1988.  The Challenger chapters are extremely interesting, and you believe his observations on how NASA and the government work in regards to tragedies that seem to threaten the status quo.  In the last part of the book is Feynman's `Appendix F', his contribution to the Challenger investigation, almost left out of the report completely (was it by accident?  Probably not).  The final essay is `The Value of Science', an address originally delivered in 1955, where the author covers the role of science in a post-WWII nuclear capable world.  This address resonates today as it did 50 years ago - my favorite paragraph deals with the founding fathers and Feynman's take on the creation of our government: \\"Even then it was clear to socially minded people that the openness of possibilities was an opportunity, and that doubt and discussion were essential to progress into the unknown.\\" (247)  Although not as entertaining as his first book, `What Do YOU Care What People Think?' is a wonderful companion piece to explore who Feynman was and what made him tick.	2005-08-26
US	50336855	R3NH0BNM71OBNP	0345453743	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Guide to the Mostly Harmless Fish Restaurant and Everything	This series, like so many book and movie serials today, has moments of brilliance as well as moments of tediousness.  And, like so many things today, the first book in the series, `The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy', is still the best of them all.  There are five books in this volume: besides the first, mentioned above, there's also `The Restaurant at the End of the Universe', `Life, the Universe and Everything', `So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish', and `Mostly Harmless' (there's also a short story, `Young Zaphod Plays it Safe', inserted between the fourth and fifth books).  All the stories have as their protagonist Arthur Dent, an `Earthman' who finds himself taken off his planet moments before a Vogon demolition crew destroys Earth to make way for a `hyperspace bypass'.  His misadventures over the books find him usually clueless about the larger universe around him; for example, he's more concerned with finding a real cup of tea than in his companions' quest for ancient civilizations.  The humor in all the books is quintessentially English, with that mixture of intellectual humor and downright silliness.  The sections allegedly taken from the `Guide' itself (which gradually disappear with every new volume in the series) could make a good book just on their own.  All of the stories include philosophy and physics as well: in `Mostly Harmless', for example, Arthur is stranded on the planet Lamuella, where he encounters Old Thrashbarg, a village elder whose deity is `Bob', and who calls Arthur a `gift' from Bob when he introduces the concept of sandwich making to the planet.  Thrashbarg also claims that his planet \\"had been found fully formed in the navel of a giant earwig at four-thirty on Vroonday afternoon...it was rather a waste of time trying to argue with Old Thrashbarg and there had never been much point in it before\\" (738).  In terms of physics, the Heart of Gold, the spaceship that appears in most of the stories, functions with something called the `infinite improbability drive' (don't even try to get me to explain); throughout the books there's discussion of the concepts of space and time, including the possibility of multiple earths, some of which were not destroyed by the Vogons (well, not right away).  There are some weaknesses: Fenchurch, who appears as Arthur's love interest in `So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish', is explained away at the beginning of `Mostly Harmless' in a feeble way.  Of course, the introduction by Douglas Adams warns that there's no set pattern to the books or the chronology - don't go looking for tidy endings or well-made storylines.  Having said that, the series is well worth reading, if only for the fact you will not know what's going to happen next.	2005-06-08
US	50336855	RG4VBOS2F6I6R	0743200012	184977222	Tomorrow to Be Brave: A Memoir of the Only Woman Ever to Serve in the French Foreign Legion	Books	4	1	1	N	N	North Africa Adventure	This memoir of Susan Travers, \\"The only woman ever to serve officially in the French Foreign Legion\\" (book jacket) is an intriguing glimpse into the Second World War in North Africa.  Travers, who in her younger life admittedly \\"acquired something of a reputation\\" (33), found the outbreak of WWII a turning point; determined to use her driving skills for a good cause, she signed up for the Croix Rouge (Red Cross).  To be an ambulance driver, however, she had to become a nurse first, something Travers admits was never her strong point.  Sent first to Finland, then West Africa, Sudan and the Eastern Mediterranean, Travers' driving adventures are entertaining, and the struggle between Vichy France and the Free French (led by de Gaulle) is riveting.  The author does not claim to be a saint, and in fact at one point has one former lover sneaking into bed with her while she is covering up an affair with her employer - all staying in the same house!  The great love of her life, according to this book, is General Marie-Pierre Koenig, commander of the North African outpost in Bir Hakeim.   This is not an affair of equals, and frankly the picture of Koenig in the book seems to indicate a man who needs to be in power all the time, and will not tolerate any difference of opinion - Travers openly admits this, and by her own admission, is not always happy with the relationship.  That aside, the sections on North Africa are illuminating: what the Free French forces were able to do in holding Bir Hakeim is laudable, especially with few supplies and little respect from their allies.  Travers later life doesn't take up many pages, and the reader hopes that, after failed love affairs, when she finally marries, she will be happy.  For a time, that's true; however, after she and her husband are sent to Vietnam after WWII, things fall apart, and after a brief separation in which he takes ill, their marriage is never the same.  I found it interesting that despite her well-deserved heroics,there are many times in this book where Travers is, well, whiny - she complains about no baths or clean clothes, while it's obvious there are more important things to worry about...war is war, after all.  I guess you could say these character traits are what makes the book entertaining on another level, but at times, the winging was annoying.  Definitely worth reading, you'll learn a lot.	2005-05-04
US	50336855	RH7AG9QKEOFCI	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Inaction Reaction	This is an extremely funny and well-written book!  Covering US History and Politics, John Stewart  and `The Daily Show' writers skewer high school text books and preconceptions about `democracy in action' (or `inaction' as the case may be).  With spurious quotes from Jefferson and Washington, this satirical look at who we are and where we came from probably would have amused our founding fathers as much as the modern reader.  Ironically, the authors probably understand our society and government much better than any historian or political scientist (and I teach college history) and although meant for humor, I would highly recommend this book to students when they have enough background to `get it'.  A comment: although it's humorous to throw in a little profanity once in a while in the context of shocking the reader, sometimes it's too much; yes, it's funny to make up a quote from the Duchess of Kent regarding tea - \\"Some tea-drinkin' m*****f****s\\" (19) - but then it's repeated again.  Also, the nude Supreme Court pictures would not be suitable for the younger readers.	2005-03-08
US	50336855	RW7ICUJKL30C5	0670032964	444014990	The Reformation: A History	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A Whole Lotta Reformation Going On!	At over 700 pages, it's hard to summarize a book that covers almost every person and event surrounding the religious upheaval that shook Europe from 1490-1500; in fact, it's impossible, and the best that can be done is highlight some of the information contained in this valuable, albeit long, work.   Author Diarmaid MacCullogh presents the chronology of the `Reformation' to be sure, but provides welcome digressions to paint a vivid picture of what life was like both for the movers and shakers (Martin Luther, Jean Calvin, Charles V) as well as the common person (the last part of the book deals with marriage and sex and how religious changes affected these matters).  To say that this book is an `exhaustive' study is an understatement: from Transylvania to Poland, from the `Atlantic Isles' (Britain and Ireland) to the `New World' of the Americas, we see the changes Protestantism brings, as well as the reaction and Counter-Reformation of the Catholic Church. One of the best parts of this book is really detailing the differences between the competing Protestant theologies of Luther and Calvin, something important that a general view of this movement sometimes glosses over. Some interesting facts: Poland had, at one point, over 34 denominations in its Commonwealth; Transylvania was a progressively Reformed area that had Protestants from all over Europe traveling there to study its theology; some Anglicans believe they did indeed `reform' the Catholic Church and are really the `true' Catholic faith!  England is emphasized extensively in the book, and the author makes a good point in why: besides an island's isolation, England's reformation really stopped in 1559 with Elizabeth I; from then on, a `high' church or `reformed' church was debated, but nothing else really changed, causing breakaway groups such as the Puritans and Quakers to leave for New England.  It is interesting to note that Thomas More, the martyr of Catholicism during Henry VIII's reign, is barely mentioned, which is surprising, all things considered.  However, lesser known persons, such as the \\"Learned Maid of Utrecht\\" who taught at a university in a time when women did not receive a higher education, are mentioned.  Again, it's hard to include everything MacCullogh relates in this book, and even he resorts to citing previous chapters to remind the reader of important points covered.  This is well-worth reading, but only if you have a good idea of the basics of the Reformation beforehand; otherwise, you will find you head filled with too much new information!	2005-03-01
US	50336855	R1V66LZD2SI6L8	0446364460	490714707	The Totem	Books	4	17	19	N	N	More than meets the eye	In this, a re-issue of David Morrell's fourth novel (1979), the author, as stated in his introduction \\"experimented with a variety of formats, all linked by action\\"(xi) in his early career, from historical novels to action-chase novels, and to this one, in the horror genre.  The first version of this story was apparently much different from what Morrell originally intended, edited down to what was thought appealing to readers in the 1970s: \\"half as long, twice as fast\\" (xiv).  In reading this version, I cannot imagine the action being faster: as with all Morrell books I have previously read, the action comes fast and furious from the beginning, and this novel is no exception.  You can see all the Morrell trademarks in this early work: a good protagonist (a sheriff with the great name of `Slaughter'); several antagonists (especially the town's mayor, Parsons); a mystery - in this case, something is mutilating animals and eventually people, with horrifying results for the town of Potter's Field, Wyoming; and a huge climax with Slaughter committing a gruesome, but heroic, act.  There's also a theme of moral responsibility: several characters are faced with a choice of doing the right thing or doing nothing, and that adds another dimension to the action.  Morrell also uses parallel imagery between the angry townspeople and the `hippies' who are blamed for the evils visited upon the town.  Even the name of the town lends itself to the action, since a `potter's field' was where the poor and nameless were buried; there's some symbolism there!  The hippy aspect of the story dates it a little bit - a modern audience born in the 1980s probably wouldn't understand the social divisions of 1970, but that historical reference is explained enough to give a younger reader the general picture.	2005-01-09
US	50336855	R22PVPK13UGHAH	0553582763	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mad scientists and more!	Dean Koontz is an expert at blending suspense with humor; some efforts, such as `Tick Tock', are uneven, but in `By the Light of the Moon', Koontz gets it right.  The plot is tight and the action starts from the first page: Dylan O'Connor is injected by a truly `mad scientist' with an unknown substance with uncertain effects.  Dylan, his autistic brother Shep, and Jillian Jackson, a standup comedian who's also been injected, decide to find out who the scientist was, and what exactly they were injected with.  The action takes place within hours, and as the effects of the injections become apparent, they have to outrun some kind of secret organization intent on killing them for what they have become.  There is both tension and humor in this book, especially from Jill and her companion, Fred (whose end we never really know). My only quibble with this novel comes toward the end: it seems rushed, as if Koontz simply wants to end the story (and maybe set up a sequel?).  However, for the most part, this is a great story, and a good addition to Koontz's other works.	2005-01-09
US	50336855	R3N4H97VQSDYSC	0312956738	602700130	Knots and Crosses: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A good start to a great series	In this, the first Inspector Rebus novel, author Ian Rankin shows why this series is so popular: a conflicted `hero', deep characterizations, a complex plot, and intense psychological drama.  Rebus is a policeman in Edinburgh, a city renown for its history and for other, unsavory, pursuits.  One of the running themes of the Rebus series is the underside of the famous tourist destination.  Rankin states at one point: \\"These tourists spent so much time photographing things that they never actually saw anything...\\" (84). The plot deals with a serial killer who, at the beginning of the novel, has abducted and killed two young girls; Rebus is assigned to the extensive investigation in a minor capacity.  At the same time, he is dealing with three other problems in his life: his daughter, his brother, and his past as a British soldier.  As the novel continues, these seemingly disparate items will be connected in a dramatic way to the main investigation.  Although not as intricate as later Rebus novels, `Knots and Crosses' is a excellent introduction to Rankin's excellent creation of John Rebus.  A good series well worth reading.	2005-01-09
US	50336855	RS42J1N069NCC	0140245146	969190174	The Prince of West End Avenue: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More in heaven and earth, Horatio!	In this novel, the winner of the National Jewish Book Award, author Alan Isler creates a world populated by libidinous senior citizens; however, although humorous, there are moments of profound realization as well.  The main character is Otto Korner, a survivor of the Holocaust, who now resides in the Emma Lazarus retirement home in the West End, Manhattan.  He is involved in a production of `Hamlet', put on by the home's residents.  Part of the plot revolves around the attempt to put on a play where the actors keep dying, end up in hospital, or simply walk away in a huff.  At the same time, Korner encounters a new young physical therapist who reminds him of a woman whom he knew in the inter-war years and who most likely died in WWII, and whose death he may have been responsible for.  The past and present merge as Otto takes over directing `Hamlet'; the philosophical musings on death and life mirror Otto's reminiscences.  We find he attempted to be a part of the avant-garde movement in Europe after WWI, where he encountered Magda Damrosch,  a beautiful woman who toyed with Otto's heart.  This is one of those novels where not much happens, yet everything happens, and to say more would spoil it.  Suffice to say, Isler's characters are brilliant, and the weaving of `Hamlet' with the Holocaust is mesmerizing.  There's enough humor to break the sometimes bleak outlook of some of the characters, and the scenes where the play is being rehearsed are priceless.	2004-06-13
US	50336855	R34I7J8L04BZLF	0451202783	704929470	The Ultimate Havana	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Smokin� Mystery	This novel, the second to feature Cuban-American detective Willie Cuesta, deals with counterfeiting cigars.  Since Cuban cigars are restricted into the US, there's already a big market in supplying consumers with contraband cigars; this novel goes a step further, and deals with those who not only smuggle, but use fake labels to dupe their customers with the idea that the expensive cigars they purchased illegally are Cuban, when in reality, they're not.  When the novel starts, however, that's not what Cuesta is called to investigate; instead, he is asked by an old friend to look into the disappearance of Carlos Espada, the son of a former famous Cuban cigar family.  As his mother states repeatedly, the gods seem to have cursed the family with nothing but misfortune: first the revolution that caused them to leave Cuba, the resulting hard economic times, the suicide of the father, Ernesto, now the disappearance of the only son, Carlos.  Cuesta's investigation uncovers the counterfeit cigar ring, and leads to a wild series of events that end up in the Dominican Republic, where all the major characters end up at the same time.  Author John Lantigua creates memorable characters, and to me, the highlight of the novel is a cigar convention, where hostesses (the \\"Tobacco Girls\\") dressed as tobacco plants are `harvested' by companion male dancers (p160).  The imagery is great and sardonic, and sticks in the mind.  Although I did like the book, I felt removed from caring too much about the characters; this could be due to the fact I did not read the first novel with Willie Cuesta.  As a slice of life in modern Miami, this is well-worth reading, but it's not a `sit on the edge of your seat' thriller by any means.	2004-06-13
US	50336855	R1OSDRZN5ONGT4	038073267X	594977768	Sacred and Profane (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Truly a Mixture of Sacred and Profane	Much grittier than the first novel in the Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus series, this novel addresses personal depravity and personal spirituality, both of which actively concern the murders at the center of the novel, and the relationship between Decker and Lazarus.  Taking place months after the events in `The Ritual Bath', the opening of the novel finds Decker camping with Lazarus' two boys, one of whom stumbles upon two dead bodies.  Reluctantly, Decker takes on the case, and what follows is depressing for him and for the reader: teenage prostitution, snuff films, and pyromania, just to name some of the elements.  These subjects take a toll on Decker, and threaten both his relationship with Lazarus and his embrace of Judaism.  As in the first novel, the characters are well-drawn and realistic; you feel for Decker and Lazarus, especially when Decker becomes self-destructive, hurting everyone around him.  The multi-layered plot is much more complex and satisfying than `The Ritual Bath', although the ending will not please romance fans.  You'll be left wanting more...which is presumably where the next book will take you.	2004-06-11
US	50336855	RX6PZ9KA1VZTS	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Orpheus Descending	I received this book over four years ago as a gift, and finally decided to read it when I noted that there was going to be a movie version.  I am glad I took the time - this is a wonderful novel, and a good addition to Civil War literature.  The plot is simple: Inman, a Confederate soldier, has had enough of war and decides, while recuperating from a wound, to simply return home.  What follows is a journey, both literally and spiritually.  The action moves between Inman's circuitous route home to Cold Mountain, and the story of Ada, the woman he loves, coping with the death of her father, and trying to rebuild her life with a measure of independence.  As the story unfolds, the realization that Inman and Ada don't know each other well, and that their romance is more of the mind than physical adds poignancy to the events.  As a good counterpoint to Ada and Inman is Ruby, whose story could have been tragic, but she is a true survivor.  She is the one who helps Ada build a new life; without this character, the story would be unremittingly sad, as Inman and Ada hearken back to the classical age's tragic lovers, destined to fail.  There are so many wonderful characters who appear in the novel, it is impossible to describe them and do them justice; suffice to say, author Charles Frazier does an excellent job in characterization.  Although I guessed how this novel would end, and think it's a cop-out, the bulk of the story is well-written and balanced.  Definitely worth reading.	2004-06-11
US	50336855	R2ME490UDCHEMK	2253172286	753335291	Double image	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Keeps You Guessing	You know when a book promises `surprising' twists, and you are then able to forecast what's going to happen next, which is disappointing?  \\"Double Image\\" won't disappoint you.  As I read the over 400 pages in this novel, I truly had no idea what would happen to the main character, Mitch Coltrane, and that was refreshing.  This book has an expansive plot - you could argue too expansive - that moves from Eastern Europe, to California, to Mexico, and interweaves several subplots involving war crimes, stalking, and premeditated murder.  Coltrane, a professional photographer, starts off the novel by photographing a war criminal whose deeds are being investigated by the UN.  He succeeds, but pays a heavy price.  He also encounters a noted photographer, Randolph Packard, who draws him into completing a project Packard began in the 1920s-30s, photographing unique houses in Los Angeles.  A simple project, on the surface, which leads to Coltrane's obsession with a woman Packard secretly photographed in the 1940s, an actress named Rebecca Chance.  When Coltrane himself becomes obsessed with Rebecca through the 50-year-old photos, he discovers she mysteriously disappeared, leading him to search for what happened to her.  Author David Morrell handles the complex plot well, and although a lot of action is crammed into a short period of time, there's enough realism in the characters and situations to keep you reading and caring about what's going to happen next.  The final section of the book is truly surprising as the mystery of what happened to Rebecca Chance is revealed, and the legacy of her relationship with two men obsessed by her - three men, if you count Coltrane.  Worth reading.	2004-06-09
US	50336855	R1B3Z43CEEY30N	0060000805	178480096	The Treasure of Montsegur: A Novel of the Cathars	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Tragic History and Romance	In this historical novel, which takes place in the 13th C, the fate of the Cathars is examined through the eyes of Jeanne, a young orphan who joins this religious group but never really commits herself to the Albigensian (Cathar) version of Christianity.  Historically, this group, which believed in pacifism, vegetarianism, chastity and charity work, was persecuted by the Catholic Church - in fact, a crusade was launched against them in the 13th C, and little is known of exactly who they were and what they believed.  Author Sophie Burnham uses the character of Jeanne to champion the idea that these `perfected heretics' were martyrs, and that the fortress of Montsegur, besieged by a hostile army, was their last stand as an alternative to the Catholicism in pre-Reformation Europe.  The plot follows Jeanne, a complex and flawed young woman who appreciates and craves the companionship of this group, such as Lady Esclarmonde (based on a real woman, as many of the characters are), whose `perfection' Jeanne envies, but cannot emulate.  Jeanne makes bad choices in men, lives what in any age would be termed a `loose' life at times, and even at the end of her life, cannot find earthly peace.  The `treasure' referred to in the title is real, and according to Burnham, even Hitler was interested in finding it. (You could also argue that, in the context of the novel, there is more than one 'treasure' that is lost and found by the characters.)  In the world of the novel, Jeanne knows its location, but chooses to leave it a secret, with tragic consequences.  Although I recommend reading this novel, I will say that at times, Jeanne and the plot left me frustrated.  The misery experienced in the book becomes unrelenting - Jeanne does have an epiphany, and the ending is historically accurate, but I was left wanting more: more history, more answers, more spirituality.	2004-06-09
US	50336855	RS0PFCZ8KT1XL	0425142485	111594650	The Funhouse	Books	2	16	19	N	N	This House? Not So Fun	This horror novel, originally published under the name `Owen West', has many of the elements of later - and better - Koontz novels: clever children, a resourceful heroine, and an unnamed, but omnipresent, evil.  However, this novel lacks the balance of other Koontz books; to my reading, it was all exposition and buildup, with a very anti-climactic final scene and no denouement.  The plot concerns Ellen, who in the opening scene murders her possibly less-than-human baby; the opening is genuinely spooky, as Ellen fights for her life twice in a matter of hours, once from her child, then from her husband.   She has married the owner of a carnival funhouse, Conrad Straker, after she ran away from her repressive mother.   From there, the story shifts to Ellen's 17-year-old daughter Amy, who's forced to grow up in a number of ways she doesn't expect when a carnival comes to town.  There's also Amy's brother Joey, a smart and loving child who, like Amy, fears his mother's combination of alcoholism and religiosity (one of the best moments in the novel is Ellen's realization she has turned into the mother she ran away from).  Koontz builds the suspense well, and the reader knows it will only be a matter of time before Straker finds Ellen (or, from his point of view, better to find her children) to take his revenge for her murder of his beloved `Victor'.  There's enough mysticism and jolts to keep the reader interested, but the final scenes seem cut short.  Evil is vanquished, but we never know the true nature of the evil vanquished, as the novel ends after the quick and unsatisfying climax.  In the Berkley paperback edition, Koontz provides insight into how and why this book came to be, and why the pseudonym: he adapted a screenplay, and he needed the money.  He also shows more humor in the Afterword than in the entire novel; more humor in the actual story would have served the characters well.  This is especially true in the account of the demise of poor `Owen West'...watchout for those buffalo!	2004-06-06
US	50336855	R39HBM71ZKIUAS	0449213730	885145717	THe Ritual Bath (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Multi-Cultural Mystery	In this novel, the first in a series of stories featuring LA detective Peter Decker and Jewish teacher Rina Lazarus, Kellerman weaves many elements together successfully: there's a crime, a hero (and heroine), the promise of romance, a social message, and enough action to keep the reader interested in both the resolution and the characters.  The story begins with a rape; as heinous as the crime is, the fact that it has occurred in a yeshiva in the Southern California foothills adds even more complications that usual for Pete Decker.  The community of the yeshiva is closed, literally and symbolically, to outsiders.  The only person who seems willing to help Decker is Rina, a young widow who is devoted to `Torah' Judaism, and her sense of duty includes running the mikvah, or ritual bath, for women in their purification after monthly menses.  Rina found the victim, a woman who left the mikvah only to be attacked on her way home.  As the plot unfolds, Kellerman reminds us of the fact that Anti-Semitism is unfortunately alive and well in our own time, even if not intended: the cops, including Decker, refer to the yeshiva as `Jewtown' at the beginning of the novel; later, Rina is accosted by punks in a parking lot, simply because she is Jewish.  Decker balances his pursuit of the yeshiva rapist with another rapist with a similar mode of operation, and the two plotlines intertwine well.  Although I pretty much knew who did the yeshiva rape and why fairly quickly into the novel, the characters kept me interested in following their story: it was obvious that Rina and Decker would have some kind of relationship by the end of the book, despite Rina's devotion to her religion and only dating within it.  Kellerman does add a little bit of `deus ex machina' at the end to smooth the way for future books with these two characters, but that is forgiven, since we do end up caring about them and their relationship.  Definitely a good beginning to a (hopefully) good series.	2004-06-06
US	50336855	R1LL88TZ16TH7G	0679445994	292137025	Across an Untried Sea: Discovering Lives Hidden in the Shadow of Convention and Time	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Unconventional Women	`Across an Untried Sea' is an interesting, if scattered narrative of several women - both European and American -- who are revealed to have defied 19th C conventions both sexually and artistically.  The main focus is on American actress Charlotte Cushman, a woman who found success in both female character roles and in playing male roles such as Romeo.  A lesbian in an age where the Cult of Domesticity reigned (and dictated that all women should marry and bear children), Cushman pledges `eternal friendship' to several women in succession, although always returning to `spouse' Emma Stebbins (a sculptress best known for the Bethedsa Fountain in Central Park, New York).  Included in Cushman's `possessions' were Hattie Hosmer, another female sculptress; Jane Carlyle, troubled wife of historian Thomas; Emma Crow, infatuated with Cushman and marries her nephew Ned; and the Brownings, whose love story fascinates Cushman and her circle.  Markus' narrative becomes more cohesive as the book expands, but in the beginning, it's unclear what her message in these women's experiences is; at times, Markus seems to dismiss Cushman's `infidelities' to Stebbins as nothing, which begs the question: what if Cushman was a man?  Would Markus have treated the clandestine relationship with Emma Crow any differently (and the `serial monogamy' of both Cushman and Crow before and after their individual affair)?  I cannot imagine a man with the same habits being literarily forgiven as Markus does Cushman.  In addition, Markus' prose seems almost from the era in which her narrative is set, making her words seem quaint - they lose their impact.  The inclusion of Jane Carlyle and her troubled life could have been a book on its own; Markus implies much about the potential feelings between Jane and Cushman, as well as between Jane and good friend Geraldine Jewsbury (one photo describes their physical positions as akin to a wedding photo - is this a stretch?).  Regardless of the sometimes scattered storylines, this remains a very interesting examination of women who did indeed cross an `untried sea' (the title is explained only at the end of the book), and as performers, writers, biographers, and artists, expanded the choices of women in their own time and for the future.	2004-06-06
US	50336855	R3FFSHCTJ60DVQ	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Provocative, But Incomplete	This is probably the hardest book I have ever had to review: on the one hand, Coulter tries to counter what she perceives as Liberals controlling US History and media by providing an unabashedly Conservative viewpoint; on the other hand, her scholarship leaves something to be desired. This book was given to me by a former student, who thought I would find it 'interesting'.  I did.<BR>   In terms of 'stirring the pot', she more than succeeds; for example, she extols Joseph McCarthy and his anti-communist activities during the period known as \\"McCarthyism\\".  She even states that although McCarthy began \\"drinking more than usual during the hearings, often working in his office all night sipping straight vodka...he was better than his adversaries.\\" (111) This is just one of many moments that, after reading all 292 pages, seems to boil down to the idea that \\"All Democrats Bad; All Republicans Good\\".  Nothing is that simplistic.  In addition, there are times when you can read a paragraph from her point of view (see above), then re-read it with the opposite POV, and both times it's a little ridiculous.  One example is the famous Annie Lee Moss case (62-64); Coulter brings up Moss stating to McCarthy and crew that there were three other people with her name in the Washington phone book, and she was not the person they were looking for.  Although Coulter does raise a good point about activities this Moss may have engaged in, her statement:\\"There was an Anna Lee Moss and and Annie Moss.  But there was only one Annie Lee Moss...\\"(63)  So Coulter knows for sure that Anna never went by the name of 'Annie'?  I know this may seem ridiculous, but I read the paragraph several times, and it seemed a little thin -- Coulter makes a good case for at least re-examining this incident, but paragraphs like that made me question other statements.  <BR>     The scholarship issue is more troubling.  I noted at the beginning of the book the following statement: \\"One year after Osama bin Laden staged a massive assault on America, a Democratic senator was praising bin Laden for his good work in building 'day care centers'.\\" (2)  This is not cited; in other words, the reader may ask, 'who was this senator?''where did this occur?'  Was this reported in a newspaper?  We don't know. At first, I thought that maybe information not directly quoted wouldn't be cited.  I was wrong: there are numerous times Coulter cites unquoted information.  However,there are also many instances she does not, and that distracted me from the veracity of her statements.   <BR>     Where does this book succeed for me?  I enjoyed the chapter entitled 'Now That I'm Sober, I Watch a Lot of News', which skewers celebrities who maybe should NOT weigh in on certain issues.  I think Coulter presents a good argument for better discernment when listening to one's favorite performer.  However, I also though it interesting that although Coulter has issues with Hollywood (evident throughout the book),and her skewering of groups like the infamous 'Hollywood Ten' is frankly mean, she neglects to mention individuals such as Walt Disney, Gregory Peck, and John Wayne (you'd think she'd laud his effort 'Big Jim McClain', a wild anti-communist movie where Wayne single-handedly wipes out communism on Hawaii [and all the commies are lawyers, professors, and other people Coulter does not seem to like]), who were all for ferreting out communists in the 1950s.  What I also enjoyed was the Venona Project, which I will definitely investigate further.<BR>    I could go on, but I will leave it at this: I would recommend this book, purely for its 'in your face' repudiation of what the author deems is ruining America.  However, you have to read the book with an eye to what information is quoted, how it's quoted, and what isn't cited, then make up your own mind as to the validity of her POV.	2004-01-17
US	50336855	R30Z9Z1KLARCRL	1400048486	244970171	All Things Oz: The Wonder, Wit, and Wisdom of The Wizard of Oz	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Not in Kansas Anymore!	This is a delightful book!  As a big Oz fan when I was a child, it was great to see all the characters and stories I grew up with come alive again.  There are segments from pretty much all the Baum authored books (not the ones by other authors after his death), and great quotes dealing with all kinds of subjects pertinent to children and adults alike, such as intelligence, courage, etc. As an adult, I really enjoyed reading the \\"Other Voices\\" segments, where various people comment on Oz and 'what it means'.  My favorite entry is the television summary of the 1939 movie by the Marin Independent Journal (p 72): \\"Transported to a surreal landscape, a young girl kills the first woman she meets, then teams up with three complete strangers to kill again.\\"  If that is not the ultimate in revisionism, I don't know what is.  Entertaining and well worth reading.	2004-01-13
US	50336855	RV7KMC3I89IUT	0517277956	881144203	The Lost Books of the Bible	Books	4	78	84	N	N	Interesting, But Dated Commentary	Originally published in 1926, the 1979 edition of this work purports to illustrate religious works \\"not included\\" by the compilers of the New Testament.  It is an interesting read, with each book prefaced by scholarly opinions of how legitimate the material is.  Some books directly echo the accepted New Testament, such as the book `Infancy' and `Mary'; others have the same title, such as `Ephesians', with some of the same ideas as found in the New Testament.  Others, such as the books dealing with Pontius Pilate, seem to contain historical inaccuracies (such as who exactly the Roman emperor was at the time), which lead to doubt about authenticity (although it is interesting to read).  I would recommend this book, although it is dense, and the print is NOT reader-friendly, as a companion piece to other `apocryphal' literature, but a newer edition might be more instructive.	2004-01-12
US	50336855	R2F3HYRL1YICIC	0060194596	768728983	Don't Know Much About The Universe: Everything You Need to Know About the Cosmos but Never Learned	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Introduction to the Universe	As in the other books in this series, Davis attempts to inform his readers about elements that we \\"never learned\\" in school.  Whether it's history, geography, or the Bible, Davis always illuminates areas that people THINK they know about, but don't.  This work is no exception.  In his standard question and answer format, Davis covers `The Universe' from the beginnings of astronomy, to the `Big Bang' theory (not what most people think it is), to the question of `are we alone' in the universe?  He also includes scientific milestones, mostly of astronomy, that are enlightening - and at times humorous: Wan Hu attempted the first manned flight in 1500 by tying 47 rockets to a chair; \\"the device explodes, killing Wan Hu, who acted as pilot.\\" (43)  On a more serious note, Davis also outlines Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Bruno, and others who challenged the accepted `everything revolves around us - literally' mentality, and sometimes paid for these challenges with excommunication, ridicule, and grievous bodily harm.  <BR>     In terms of helpful information, Davis provides a planet-by-planet description of our solar system.  In the light of recent unmanned journeys to Mars, it's interesting to compare the theories of life on the `red planet' with what current events may bring.  The insertion of cartoons depicting the space race, space travel, and other related issues is another good historical context for the book's information, as well as breaking up the sometimes dense scientific material.  For a non-expert, this book is a great introduction to `The Universe', and is second, in my opinion, to Davis' best work in this genre, his original `Don't Know Much About History'.  Well worth reading.	2004-01-12
US	50336855	R3KWLICKX8QLKH	068483474X	271307471	Unwise Passions : A True Story of a Remarkable Woman and the First Great Scandal of 18th Century America	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Unwise, Indeed	Although I take issue with the subtitle of this book: \\"...the First Great Scandal of Eighteenth-Century America\\", author Alan Pell Crawford does deliver an interesting narrative of one extended family's disintegration.  The family in question are the Randolph's of Virginia, and Crawford provides the reader with both a map and a family tree to chart all the characters.  By lineage, the Randolph's were Virginia aristocracy, in every sense of the word; they were the `patricians' who would form the English colonies of the South, and the new nation after the Revolution.  By marriage (and they had the tendency to marry each other as cousins), they were linked with Thomas Jefferson and Gouverneur Morris.  <BR>     Crawford makes a point of how `high on the hog' these patricians were, and based on the events in the book, it's a good illustration of `how the mighty have fallen'.  The central scandal involves Nancy, a Randolph who may - or may not - have had an affair with her brother-in-law (and cousin) Richard, become pregnant, and with Richard's connivance, disposed of the baby (while her sister, Richard's wife, was in the next room).  Great things had been expected from Richard, and this scandal threatened to destroy his and the family's reputation.  Defending Richard (and Nancy) was Patrick Henry, the antithesis of what the Randolph's stood for; when he wins the case, it seems as if the debate over what happened between Nancy and Richard would die down.  However, over the next 50 years, Nancy is hounded by her extended family, especially brother-in-law Jack, with the original charge of seduction and infanticide, then a relationship with a slave, then with possibly murdering her own nephew.  And that's the tip of the iceberg.<BR>     Crawford does a good job with setting the scene of Nancy's life.  He also paints an informative and entertaining picture of the many scandals - personal and political - that embroiled not just the Randolph's, but by extension all the Virginiaaristocracy, whose way of life was dying after the Revolution, and they did not like it.  However, Nancy herself, and what if any part she played in the various scandals, remains unclear.  We know more about Jack, her principal tormentor, and her husband, the cosmopolitan Morris, than we do about Nancy.  Also, I would argue the `first great scandal of the 18th C' idea: there were several events that could claim that title, including the treason of Benedict Arnold, about 20 years before the events in this book began.  Also, the events in the book go on well beyond the 18th C.  Still, it does make the title more intriguing for marketing purposes!	2004-01-12
US	50336855	R2DXJYQH0QB45	006097561X	907309066	Forgotten Fatherland: The Search for Elisabeth Nietzsche	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Provocative Woman	This is one of the most curious books I have ever read: on the one hand, there is the story of a failed 19th C German colony in Paraguay, founded on eugenic principles that would be echoed in Hitler's time; on the other hand, there is the biography of one of the most overlooked figures in 19th C philosophy - Elisabeth Nietzsche, sister of the famed philosopher, and apparently the one who twisted her brother's ideas to conform to her own concept of racial purity (and a woman who Hitler courted in his early years of power).  <BR>    The author, Ben Macintyre, does an admirable job of bringing these two stories together: Elizabeth and her husband, \\"professional anti-semite\\" Bernhard Forster, attempt the Paraguayan colony as `New Germany' (Nueva Germania); this colony was designed to appeal to `true' Germans who wanted to establish not only an ideological power base, but flee economic problems at home.  The colony does not succeed, as Macintyre discovers when he journeys there in 1991: there are a few of the old families around, and the dangers of inbreeding, according to one recent German immigrant doctor, are becoming noticeable, heralding the inevitable decline of what Elisabeth envisioned as her own pure, private kingdom.<BR>     As the parallel story of Nietzsche develops, we see perhaps Elisabeth's real impact on history: her reinterpretation - or even reinvention - of her brother's theories.  Macintyre makes an excellent case for Elisabeth's \\"mythologizing\\" of her brother and his works to further her own agenda (and help set the stage for Hitler and company's racial programs of the 1930s): although Nietzsche himself was \\"anti-anti-semitic\\", during his insanity and after his death, Elisabeth shamelessly made herself the custodian - and editor - of many of his works, linking her brother to an ideology he actually despised.  It is no wonder that Nietzsche's named became philosophical \\"mud\\", as Macintyre recounts.  This part of the book is worth reading for the blatant rewriting of history done by a woman who would not apologize for her views or actions (and whose death in 1935 prevented her from seeing the result of racist views she helped promulgate).  <BR>     Macintyre's physical investigation of what happened to New Germany is entertaining, and provides a respite from the depressing - but riveting - narrative of the rest of the book.  His concern with becoming a `stud' to a colony of desperate young German colonists is hilarious, as are his equestrian, translating, and lodging adventures.  When he finds the remnants of New Germany, the book seems to lack content - until you realize, as Macintyre does --  that the colonists' dreams for a racially `pure' paradise is exactly what will cause them to disappear.  The lack if information on the descendents of the original colonists seems to be because they either won't talk, or avoid talking by hiding in the forest.  The pictures included in the book provide a great backdrop to what the colony wanted, and what it actually received.  The book also relates a brief history of Paraguay and several colorful characters (some not even connected with the events the book is about), that put the whole thing in an understandable historical context.	2004-01-12
US	50336855	R1ASNJOFKQT2S4	0553278029	525224641	A Great Deliverance	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Character-Driven Mystery	This novel, the first in the 'Inspector Lynley' mystery series, is complex in both plot and character.  The plot concerns the murder of a Yorkshire farmer, allegedly by his youngest daughter, who is found by the local priest with the murder weapon -- an axe -- as she is guarding the body.  Although the townspeople are almost all convinced the daughter could never do such a thing, it's up to Inspector (and Earl of Asherton) Thomas Lynley to find out who committed the crime.  What's really interesting about this novel is the depth of character George creates: both Lynley and his partner, Barbara Havers, have lives outside of the main story that keep intruding on their investigation.  And all the major characters are flawed in some way.  A highlight of that aspect is the class-based hatred Havers has for Lynley; at times, it makes her irrational in her assumptions of Lynley as well as other characters.  The last quarter of the novel 'reveals all': the murderer, the motive (very sordid), every head of what Lynley calls the 'Hydra' in the town of Keldale.  One minor distraction -- at least to this reader -- is a subplot that detracts from the main plot and explains the disappearance of one of the suspects. A good start to a good series.	2003-11-03
US	50336855	R1SI1PYEP2HCOV	0714826529	678334399	The Story Of England	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Good Overview, But Leaves Major Events Out	If someone is looking for a good, easily read, overview of English History, Christopher Hibbert is a logical choice.  His 'The Story of England' is both entertaining and informative.  However, if you already know something of English history, you will be amazed at the short shrift he gives to major events such as World War I &amp; II, the Wars of the Roses, and some literary/social events that are certainly worth mentioning.  Hibbert does well with the ancient history sections, and he does throw in great anecdotes on people and places that are accurate as well as fun to read.  Hibbert also includes timelines and maps for both England and World history, and several royal family trees to pin down dates and people. For a beginning book on this subject, I would highly recommend it.	2003-10-31
US	50336855	RUJ3Y6IP9DATW	0312963599	159452745	Artists in Crime (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	1930s Style at Its Best	This novel, which relates the first meeting between Scotland Yard Inspector Roderick Alleyn and the artist Agatha Troy, is both a good mystery and a good picture of what kind of book was popular in the 1930s.  After Alleyn and Troy meet on a ship sailing back to England from the South Pacific (and they do not meet well, although he is interested in her), Alleyn is called to investigate a murder at Troy's home conveniently down the road from his mother's.  An artist's model has been murdered, and there is literally a cast of suspects who had the motivation to `do her in', including Troy herself.  The plot is pretty procedural, although the identity of the murderer is kept hidden for quite awhile.  The great thing is the language and style of the novel: slang terms, endearments, and descriptions of people are wonderfully appropriate to the time in which the novel first appeared.  The relationship between Alleyn and his mother could not be written `straight' today: the `darlings' and `mammas' would be a joke in the 21st century, especially since Alleyn is not a young man at this point.  Troy and Alleyn's misunderstandings, and the rather melodramatic `Epilogue in a Garden' is fun to read and would have played well to the original readers; it's full of dramatic tension and yet a little silly at the same time.  Better than most modern mysteries.	2003-10-13
US	50336855	R22U2OMFMEK7FU	0312311354	306188446	The Pianist: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, 1939-1945	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Intriguing Holocaust Memoir	Although this memoir of the Holocaust isnt as well-known as The Diary of Anne Frank, Wladyslaw Szpilmans The Pianist deserves to be recognized as a vital record of Nazi atrocities during WWII.  Written immediately after that conflict, the style is surreal, and not always completely chronological  it is very much a stream of consciousness narrative of what Szpilman remembers about the horrors that took place in his home city of Warsaw: the uncertainty in September of 1939, when the Germans invaded Poland; the Warsaw Ghetto, and the strange sense of normalcy that its inhabitants created for over two years; Szpilman mysteriously pulled out of line while the rest of his family boarded a train to certain death; and his survival outside of the Ghetto to the end of the war.  Its hard to convey the emotions of the book, both from the author and from the reader: as in other literature of this topic, the savagery and transcendence of individuals boggles the mind.  For every Wilm Hosenfeld, the German officer who probably saved Szpilmans life as he hid out in abandoned buildings, theres a collaborator, a Nazi, or Ukrainian who seems to delight in making others suffer.  This edition of the book contains a foreward by Szpilmans son, extracts from Hosenfelds diary (fascinating and poignant, considering his eventual fate in the Soviet Union), and an afterward by Wolf Biermann (with the startling fact that Szpilman had to say Hosenfeld was Austrian in the original edition, as apparently Germans in Cold War Poland couldnt have done anything good during the war!).  I think, that in this day and age, with the resources available, more historical information could have been included: what exactly did happen to Szpilmans family?  What about his later family life?  What did he think about the post-war world?  Minor quibbles, and they certainly did not impact my appreciation of the book.	2003-10-13
US	50336855	R2KOBTQJ5NPFNV	0345409973	347949682	The Cobra Event	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Realistic Thriller for Our Time	As he did in `The Hot Zone', Richard Preston tackles a killer virus - this time fictionally.  `The Cobra Event' is a great medical thriller that intersperses facts (the Iraqi, Russian, and US bioweapons experiments) with fiction: a seemingly random list of victims begins appearing in New York City whose simple colds liquefy their brains.  Alice Austen, with the CDC, is sent to investigate the mysterious death of a teenager in New York City; an autopsy reveals blood-filled blisters, golden irises, and a brain that has literally turned to mush.  The next case, a homeless man, has no logical connection to the first victim, but when one of the morgue doctors becomes ill, the FBI is called in, leading to a full-scale, multi-agency search for answers.  The investigators discover that the illness is not random: someone has manufactured a virus that contains material found in butterflies, modified with other elements to be easily communicated to humans.  In this day and age, the fear of bioweapons makes this a pertinent read, as do Preston's insertions of information on mobile bioreactors in Iraq, secret labs in the Soviet Union testing biological bombs, and the US tests at Johnston Atoll in the late 1960s.  When the perpetrator is discovered, his motivation is known only to the reader; the other characters only find that he himself has been exposed to the virus as he attempts to detonate homemade devices in the NY subway.  Preston keeps the action going well, although a hint at romance between Austen and an FBI agent seems like an afterthought that isn't needed for the characters or the plot.  Worth reading.	2003-10-13
US	50336855	R34XOXKPUV3CXK	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Galileo Code?	Happening in just about 24 hours, `Angels and Demons' packs more action into 569 pages than is humanly possible.  Yet, after completing the book, none of it seems ludicrous; all the neoclassical unities of time, place, and action are fulfilled in a realistic manner.  As in Brown's `The DaVinci Code' (the action in `Angels and Demons' precedes that book), the protagonist is Robert Langdon, an academic symbologist who is called upon to solve a murder: a Catholic priest-scientist who is branded on the chest with a cryptic symbol reminiscent of the Illuminati, a group of anti-religious fanatics.  Langdon is joined by the priest-scientist's adopted daughter, Vittoria, who worked closely with her father in the development of anti-matter, a substance with limitless possibilities.  When Langdon and Vittoria discover that some of the anti-matter has been stolen, and possibly taken to the Vatican to destroy it, off they go, and within a few hours are embroiled in Vatican politics: it's time to elect a new pope, and the four leading candidates have been kidnapped.  The only way to stop the destruction of the Vatican, find the missing cardinals before they are murdered, and literally save the day, is for Langdon to figure out, with the help of Galileo's `Diagramma' (annotated by Milton) where the papal candidates are before they are murdered by the Illuminati.  To say more would spoil all the twists and turns of the plot.  However, it is appropriate to add that Langdon is no superhero with all the answers: he is a very human, flawed protagonist and doesn't always get it right the first time.  There's a huge twist at the end that a reader will know is coming, but the details and the climax are still riveting.  This is just as good as the better known `DaVinci Code', and I think even more exciting.	2003-09-13
US	50336855	R1W8NN58N15K1F	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Epic in the Cecil B. DeMille Tradition	This novel is perfect for those who like `Gone With the Wind' epics.  There is a cast of hundreds, a larger-than-life hero and heroine, and a narrator who adds a bit of narcissistic comic relief.  The plot involves the love of Tanus, a noble of ancient Egypt (the date is c. 1780 BCE) for Lostris, the daughter of Lord Intef (the main villain).  Lord Intef ruined Tanus' father secretly, and only the narrator, Taita the slave, knows the true story of Lord Harrab's disgrace and his son's inability to marry Lostris.  When Lostris is married to the weak Pharaoh Mamose, it seems as if the lover's will never be together.  Enlisting Taita's help (as a eunuch, he is no threat to Lostris and is her personal slave), true love does triumph; however, it is bittersweet.  This is not the only plotline, however: there is everything from desert bandits, to the conquest (briefly) of Egypt by the Hyksos, to the removal of the Egyptian royal court into Ethiopia.  Through all these events, Taita provides his very unique opinions on everything from a slave owning society (a necessity that's `natural' to him, even though he is a slave), to his many inventions (he claims to have invented or perfected grandstands, brain surgery, and chariots, amongst other things), to his many investments in `river front property'.  Some of the events are quite gruesome - such as when Intef finally gets his just desserts - but the dramatic story holds up, no matter how fantastic the events become.  Smith has really created a modern classic with this novel, which combines good history with good storytelling.	2003-09-08
US	50336855	R2D9ZA53S4UN1A	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Can't Wait for the Film!	This novel is one of the best Crichton has produced.  Yes, it's another time travel book, and I found the science/physics explanation of how the characters are able to travel backwards in time more than a little obtuse, but it is a gripping adventure that's definitely worth reading.  I also enjoyed the characters: Professor Edward Johnston, Andre Marek, Chris Hughes, and Kate Erickson are all three dimensional protagonists who make the sometimes fantastic plot developments plausible.  The plot concerns a major corporation that has been bankrolling archaeological research in France, coordinated by Johnston.  When it's discovered that the corporation seems to have more information on the archaeological site than the field team has, suspicions are aroused, and Johnston and his assistants travel to New Mexico, where it's revealed that time travel to 'alternate' versions of earth is possible.  The drama comes in when first Johnston, then the others, are trapped in the 14th C during the Hundred Years' War, when France and England fought for dominance.  It would be a shame to reveal all the plot nuances, but historically this is an accurate depiction of what life was like in the Middle Ages.  Definitely a good read.	2003-08-15
US	50336855	R9FTK91DR2CUT	0425173585	782673302	Giotto's Hand (Art History Mysteries)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	More Mystery Than Art History	I think that the best word to describe this book would be 'pleasant'.  It's a pleasant diversion, and has enough depth to keep the reader interested, but I felt something was lacking in the content by the time I finished the novel. The plot concerns a letter sent to Rome's Art Theft Squad headquarters, claiming to have information on a stolen painting from 30 years previous.  This letter, written by an old woman with a checkered past, reminds General Bottando, head of the Art Theft Squad, of someone he nicknamed 'Giotto', who stole several pieces of art and got away with it.  Investigating the connection could cause him potential problems, as he is being usurped by Argan, a man who wants his job.  So, he surreptitiously sends Flavia, one of his assistants, to interview the woman, and this leads to Flavia sending her boyfriend, art dealer Jonathan Argyll, home to England to interview the man.  However, after Jonathan makes an appointment to see the man who could be 'Giotto', he instead finds the suspect, Forster, dead in his own home.  What follows is an investigation both professional (Flavia) and casual (Jonathan) to discover if Forster was indeed Giotto, and if so, what happened to the stolen art?  Many of the characters are fleshed out nicely, but even though there's a nice twist at the end, the novel runs out of steam, and there's some muddled elements that seem thrown together.  Bottando, Argyll, and Flavia are worth reading about again, hopefully in a deeper plot.	2003-08-06
US	50336855	R3BGHNKMKSK3JD	0345384202	797071903	I, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem	Books	4	23	31	N	N	"Mock Epic" a Mixed Bag	I have a hard time reviewing this work: on the one hand, the background of this sometimes lyrical novel provides an insight into one of the slighted players in the infamous Salem Witch Trials of the 17th C, Tituba, the slave of Rev. Samuel Parris; on the other hand, although purporting to 'use' history to explore broader themes, Conde takes many liberties with actual events and other elements, which distort the narrative.  To me, the best parts of this novel are the beginning and the end (the created 'history' of Tituba); also, the characterizations of Tituba, John Indian (her husband), Benjamin Cohen (a Jewish immigrant who becomes both Tituba's owner and lover), and the 'spirits' to whom Tituba talks, are vividly drawn.  We see Tituba's origin in the brutal rape of her mother, Abena, by a Englishman while she is on her way to Barbados enslaved, and Abena's hanging for rebelling against another sexual assault.  This has a profound effect on Tituba, and on her relations with men generally and whites in particular.  As the story progresses, factual elements come into play: Tituba ends up in the service of Samuel Parris; she befriends his wife, daughter, and niece, only to be betrayed in Salem by everyone, including her faithless husband; she is found guilty in the trials (of which Conde includes an actual transcript of Tituba's deposition, but little else about the trials themselves).  Conde adds fictional narrative to fill out the next stage of Tituba's life: sold to Benjamin Cohen, who frees her; her return to Barbados, where she encounters 'maroons'(free black men and women who live in hiding, plotting to overthrow the white regime) and where she will meet the same end as her mother.  There are some wonderful scenes in this book, which realizes Conde's goal of reminding the reader that Tituba was a 'real person', not just a footnote.  <BR>    However, there are also several elements that jar the reader out of this narrative (as the Afterward clearly illuminates).As I was reading the book, modern words such as 'feminist' appear; the section with the most incongruities was the insertion of Hester Prynne, from Hawthorne's 'The Scarlet Letter', in Tituba's cell during the Salem trials (although Hawthorne's story took place about 50 years earlier).  The two women have several conversations that are obviously meant to bring home a modern sensibility.  When I realized who Tituba's fellow prisoner was, I frankly -- and literally -- groaned.  But Conde doesn't stop there: in this version, Hester doesn't live to have the scarlet 'A' emblazoned on her bodice.  The scenes with Hester also illustrate two running themes that seemed to be beaten into the story: men are pretty much scum, and whites -- especially Puritans -- are pretty much evil and can't be trusted (the one exception is Benjamin Cohen, part of another persecuted group).  Conde has a good grasp of the failings of Puritanism (it's known that many Puritans 'dabbled' in things like palm reading, even though it was obviously 'ungodly'); however, she creates a different origin for the Salem witch trials than is historically correct, and simplfies historical characters to the point that they are almost ridiculous.  By the time I got to the Afterward (one out of the four stars I gave this book is for that alone), I was pretty annoyed at the liberties Conde took with language and history.  The Afterward did, however, help me understand some of what Conde intended, and her work in the context of modern Caribbean literature.  An interview with Conde is included, and in it she states, \\"Do not take 'Tituba' too seriously, please.\\"  Conde says that the story is part \\"parody\\", and that Tituba is a \\"mock-epic\\" heroine.  Although I 'get it' now, the fact that the Afterward had to explain to me what the book meant (and much of the explanantion contained there seems to contradict itself)signals that the book failed on many levels.  This is especially true in the Foreward, written by AngelaDavis, which seems to take the book's messages very seriously; in thanking Conde for her vision, Davis says Tituba \\"dies as a revolutionary\\", and that this work is Tituba's \\"revenge\\" for being ignored by mainstream history.   While I agree that Tituba needs more attention, I think that she also deserved more than this version of her life, without the inclusion of literary characters and simplistic stereotyping of men.	2003-08-05
US	50336855	R2J4L02TO8QXXE	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absorbing and Provocative Thriller	This is one of the most original fiction titles I have read in months -- not only is it spellbinding in terms of plot, but it also raises several important theological questions.  Dan Brown creates believable characters stuck in extraordinary situations that strain credibility at times, but like 17th C French neoclassic playwrights, he keeps the 'unities' of time, action, and place realistic enough to sustain our interest.  The action starts right from the prologue, when Sauniere, a curator at the Louvre, is murdered by a mysterious albino 'monk'.  Realizing that an important secret will die with him, Sauniere stages his own death scene full of clues to the reason behind his murder.  This brings Robert Langdon, a symbologist, into the picture: first a suspect in the murder, then the only man who can truly solve it, Langdon finds himself fleeing through Paris and beyond to solve the clues and exonerate himself.  Langdon is joined by Sophie Neveu, who is revealed to be the granddaughter of Sauniere, and is herself a cryptologist.  The fun of the novel is watching the characters figure out the clues left by Sauniere, a master puzzler in more ways than one.  The big 'secret' everyone -- good and bad -- wishes to find is based in current theological debates on the nature of Christianity and the role of women in the church.  Although the end seems a bit rushed and almost too neat (intellectually, not emotionally), this is truly a \\"I can't put it down\\" novel.  Definitely worth reading.	2003-06-10
US	50336855	R1C1LND5YQVEA1	0785778691	199284738	Icebound	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Koontz meets Clancy meets Maclean	When I read the back of the book -- the author's comments -- I was pleased to find that what Koontz intended with the style of this book meshed with what I picked up while reading it: namely, that although this novel has many of the same elements as other Koontz works, there's a cross-pollination of other genres involved.  Partly a Maclean thriller taking place on a giant iceberg floating away with a party of scientists (who plan to blow up the berg for fresh water down south), part 'Hunt for Red October' (a Russian submarine is involved when the scientists become trapped on the berg), this novel includes a few too many characters and plotlines.  The lead characters of Harry and Rita are well-rounded, but the inclusion of a murderous fellow scientist who may be targeting a Kennedyesque member of the team is not explored enough -- or really, even necessary.  The fact that the scientists are trapped on an iceberg, with only so many hours before it's blown up is drama enough.  The Russian submarine subplot is okay, and its captain gets a good character sketch, but the descriptions of how the sub works wander into Clancy territory too much.  I think the best, and most claustrophobic, part of the book is at the end; not to give too much away, but the scuba scene is gripping enough without any embellishment.  I would recommend this book as a good 'beach' book -- it would certainly cool you off...	2003-05-28
US	50336855	ROGGSQRELWJ9A	0316566888	802115246	The Ornament of the World: How Muslims, Jews, and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain	Books	5	11	20	N	N	Relevant History for Our Time	Maria Rosa Menocal presents what today would be a 'radical' idea: people of different religions coexisting and even tolerating their differences while creating a vibrant and dynamic society.  Yet, in medieval Spain ('al-Andalus' as the exiled Umayyad dynasty coined it) this kind of society was created and managed to exist for almost 600 years.  The book is part narrative, part analysis of what made al-Andalus the creative center that transmitted both Arab and ancient Greek culture throughout the Western European world.  The originator was Abd al-Rahman, the last of the Umayyad Muslims from Syria, whose family had been wiped out by political and religious rivals.  As a young man, he is exiled to the Iberian peninsula, and begins to transform it into the 'real' caliphate, filled with new ideas; perhaps accidentally, he also creates a society where Jews and Christians can rise to high posts in the caliphate and transform their own cultures.  Menocal provides portraits of individuals of all backgrounds who build a sometimes 'ideal' society; she also narrates those who, like Petrus Alfonsi (a convert from Judaism to Christianity), take these ideas to the rest of Europe (Petrus became famous and revered in England for what was 'common' knowledge in al-Andalus, which illustrates how ignorant much of Europe was -- Petrus was only 'average' in his homeland).  The book ends with a bitter -- and, in the context of the book, surprising -- betrayal of tolerance by Isabella and Ferdinand of Spain in 1492: despite dressing like 'Arabs' at their ascension to a 'reconquered' Christian Spain, within three months, they banned (and pressured conversion) to the Jews (some of whom worked with these monarchs in positions of authority), and pressure Muslims to convert or leave.  Although remnants of the 'golden' age of al-Andalus survive in buildings like the Alhambra palace, the Inquisition wipes out much of what flourished during the supposedly 'dark' age of Europe.  One of the most insightful books I've read in months.	2003-05-15
US	50336855	R37FR8O7L9CVF9	014200183X	753464776	Testimony of an Irish Slave Girl	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Brutal History	In this extensively researched historical novel, author Kate McCafferty uncovers a little-known area of history: the 'trepanning'(forced immigration into slavery) of Irish and other whites to Barbados in the 17th C.  Cot Daley, who is kidnapped at the age of 11, endures a 'middle passage' similar to that taken by African slaves to her new, 'hellish' home in the New World.  The novel is written in the form of a deposition that the now elderly Cot Quashey delivers to Peter Coote, an apothecary charged with unearthing evidence from an aborted slave-servant revolt on the island in which Cot played a minor role.  Cot promises information, if only Coote will take down her entire life story (which he does with increasing frustration).  We learn of Cot's endless suffering, both in her work on sugar cane plantations and in her personal life.  There are only fleeting moments of happiness, some with her eventual 'husband', an African named Quashey, who becomes the leader of a thwarted rebellion (there were several unsuccessful attempts by enslaved whites and Africans during the 17th C).  There are few joys in Cot's life -- the novel is depressing in its realism -- yet, by the end of the book, she has gained a certain nobility of purpose.  McCafferty provides an in-depth character study of a flawed woman who only wants her personal freedom...and is denied such by circumstance and the men in her life.  Well worth reading.	2003-04-27
US	50336855	R277GFK1ZZQS0O	0380802252	997158948	Baroque and Desperate (A Den of Antiquity Mystery)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Stylish, but lacking	There were many elements I enjoyed about this novel; the main one: the language.  Author Tamar Myers has a wonderful sense of wordplay and wit that makes many passages a joy to read.  However, in my opinion, this element detracts from the rather flimsy plot: returning home from a vacation, protagnist Abigail Timberlake finds her business -- the Den of Antiquity antique store -- burgled, and her finances in shambles.  Depressed, she accepts an offer from Tradd Latham, part of an old Southern family with loads of money, not to mention the requisite odd relations, to join him for a possibly profitable adventure.  The plot concerns a contest, in which participants have to find a specific antique hidden by the family matriarch.  What's found first, however, is a dead body: the sluttish maid.  Abigail's dim friend, CJ, confesses to the murder, and that sends Abigail, Tradd, and a host of other colorful characters looking for the real murderer.  The resolution of the plot is standard, with the wit overshadowing everything (favorite witty moment: Tradd's number of children sprinkled throughout the community, referred to as 'Traddpoles').  Entertaining, but not for the hardcore mystery fan.	2003-04-27
US	50336855	R3IJRK232DSCTP	0425098605	525781628	The Vision	Books	3	66	67	N	N	Has Its Moments	In this slim novel, originally written in the late 1970s, many of the standard elements of Koontz's better work appear: psychic ability, a romantic element, gripping prose. However -- and maybe this is because I have read several other, recent novels -- I found this one predictable.  The story revolves around psychic Mary Bergen's vision of several murders that seem to have familiar victims (although she can't nail down why the victims are familiar to her).  She is also torn between loyalty to her brother, Alan, and her new husband, Max, who don't get along.  The setting is the Christmas season, and this provides the right weather conditions -- rain and cold -- and the right contrast -- happy season v. grisly murders -- to keep the reader's interest to see what will happen next.  Unfortunately -- at least for me -- I pretty much guessed 'whodunit' in the beginning, so although I doubted myself a couple of times (kudos to Koontz), I enjoyed the 'why' more than the 'who'.  The end is gripping, and the fate of the core characters is up in the air.  Good, but not his best.	2003-04-27
US	50336855	R22XDVVR2BHKNZ	0425124347	448060127	The Bad Place	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Keeps You Guessing	This novel has many of the standard elements of Koontz's work: heroes to root for, villains who are truly menacing, and a cathartic climax.  In 'The Bad Place', we have something more as well: a world where the heroes don't always live through the story, and even the innocent and sympathetic suffer.  The plot deals with the owners of the Dakota &amp; Dakota detective agency -- Bobby and Julie -- who come across a very interesting client: Frank Pollard, who has loads of money but no memory.  As the Dakotas investigate who Pollard really is, we are introduced to Thomas, Julie's brother with Down's Syndrome.  Thomas becomes the catalytic character in the story, and his 'visions' of the villain and Julie become truly prophetic, and although the visions lead to 'Mr. Blue', as the villain is known, a terrible price is paid by several of the 'good' guys and their loved ones.  There is extensive descriptive violence in several segments of the book, and the eventual explanation of who -- and what -- Pollard is takes the world of the novel in an incredible direction that sets the mind reeling.  I liked the unexpected twists in the novel, and the fact that not everyone received a 'happy' ending; however, there is not a lot uplifting in this book, unlike some of Koontz's later work.	2003-03-14
US	50336855	R3QU5QRRKXS812	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Gastronomic History	Mark Kurlansky's 'fish tale' spans over 400 years of American and world history to reveal how something as seemingly insignificant as one species can alter the course of a country's history.  Starting with the Basque fishermen who may have 'discovered' North American before Columbus (but after the Norse), Kurlansky shows how cod became a staple in our diet and affected incidents such as the American Revolution and slavery.  He also makes a good case for conservation of the modern Atlantic cod, and present factors that could render this fish for all intents and purposes extinct. From my perspective, the 'cod wars' of the mid-20th century were the most entertaining, and provide a mirror for more well-known historical events such as the Cold War. Sprinkled throughout are recipes -- modern and ancient -- for preparing cod, including snacking on codheads.  On the whole, a fascinating look at how war, diplomacy, trade and exploration were fueled by one species, and how we refuse to change our customs, diets, and livelihoods even if we are destructive to our environment and ourselves.	2003-03-14
US	50336855	RWLSICYK5MNLC	0515117153	112363616	Candlenight	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intriguing, but leaves you wanting more	Phil Rickman's 'Candlenight' has some great moments of suspense, and he does a great job of weaving several storylines and timelines together to create a good thriller.  The basic plot deals with the Welsh town of Y Groes, a seemingly idyllic place where it rarely snows or rains, the people are happy, and life is good -- but only if you're Welsh.  Outsiders seem to always come to an untimely, and sometimes gruesome, end.  Rickman sets up the characters well, and there are several 'leads' in the story, who despite their varied backgrounds, all come together at the end of the novel, literally, in Y Groes.  However, I read mixed messages about the attitude to Wales, its people, and Welsh nationalism.  On the one hand, the unique culture of Wales is elaborated upon as distinctly different from the English.  One the other hand, the majority of the Welsh characters are simplistic, whereas the others in the book -- especially American Berry Morelli and Englishman Giles Freeman -- are well-rounded characters. The middle of the book was great, and I was caught up in the action. The end also leaves something to be desired, and what I hoped would be a climax fizzled out with some unseen and wimpy developments, some of which could lead to an obvious sequel. Although I did enjoy this novel and will try another by this author, I hope that future stories are consistent, and not choppy.	2003-01-23
US	50336855	R1QOCKVL5A11UB	1569248281	279980330	The Tick: The Naked City	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Funny, but is it really for young adults?	I was given this as a sort of 'gag' gift, since I was a fan of both the cartoon and the brief live action television show.  I will say that this 'graphic novel' contains all the sly humor and off-kilter characters that appeared in other mediums.  How can you resist that big blue guy and female characters named 'Oedipus'?  Also, the whole ninja component was wonderfully satirical, and I loved Paul the Samurai with his 'killer loaf'.	2002-11-23
US	50336855	R36H3YMTZA2X4Y	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Time Tunnel Travels	In 'Lightning', the reader has all the elements of many Koontz novels: violence, romance, death and sorrow, and unusual twists that can surprise you, even if you suspect something strange is about to happen.  The plot concerns the life of Laura Shane, who seems to be 'protected' from most of the violent events in her life by a tall, blonde man who appears out of nowhere, usually accompanied by lightning (with no storm in sight).  Losing her mother at birth, and her father while a child, Laura overcomes the traumas of her early life to fall in love with a good man and bear a son, Chris.  However, this brief happiness is cut short when the mysterious blonde man appears, and while saving the family, also invites new tragedy into Laura's life.  Without giving too much away, the last third of the book is action-packed, with gun battles, car chases, and the usual.  There is, of course, the Koontz twist on the overdone subject of time travel which raised more questions than it answered; also, the whole idea of time travel and the explanation of it seems to be dismissed with one word: \\"paradox\\".  In addition, the ending falls a little flat and occurs too abruptly.  However, on the whole, an entertaining book that kept me guessing on how it would end.	2002-11-23
US	50336855	RKKAG753AFVHI	0061010901	203053226	The Way of the Traitor	Books	4	7	9	N	N	East Meets West...Unwillingly	This novel picks up where Rowland's last Sano Ichiro novel left off: once again, Sano is the victor in the battle against crime, but loser of the war that rages within the Shogun's household.  And, once again, his enemy is the Shogun's favorite, Yanagisawa.  Sano finds himself essentially exiled to Nagasaki, the only port in which Japan allows foreigners -- closely watched, of course.  A Dutch trader is murdered, and Sano offers to unearth the murderer, a seemingly impossible, and politically suicidal, task.  Will Sano persevere?  Since this is a series of novels, it's pretty obvious he will solve the case.  However, I don't think I can take much more of Sano and his associates constantly beaten, wounded, and almost assassinated!  The most interesting part of the book, in my opinion, is the picture of foreigners Rowland paints in the book: they are, to Sano and other Japanese, dirty, smelly, and almost completely uncivilized.  The fact that Sano needs one of the Dutch delegation's help challenges his detective and physical senses to the extreme.  Rowland is historically accurate in her depiction of the xenophobia present in Japan, and the fears that foreigners will somehow pollute the purity of Japanese culture, something that James Clavell did so well in 'Shogun'.	2002-11-19
US	50336855	RS0HHXOAFO3GF	0312969228	128650106	The Concubine's Tattoo (Sano Ichiro Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wedded Bliss?	After putting off his arranged marriage for a couple of novels, Rowland's latest Sano Ichiro mystery finds the detective married to Reiko, the daughter of a samurai.  The wedding is barely over when a murder is discovered -- one of the Shogun's concubines has been apparently poisoned while applying a tatoo to a rather intimate area of her body.  No honeymoon for Sano -- and, as the book continues -- possibly no wedded bliss, either, for Reiko turns out to have her own ideas on the murder and on life in general.  These ideas are radically different from Sano's view of women and marriage.  In previous novels, after all, he's been around, to say the least.  This novel is one of the more explicit in the series, and even Sano's trusty assistant, Hirata, has an interesting encounter with another of the Shogun's women.  In fact, women figure prominently in this novel, from concubines, to wives, to mothers; by the end, Sano gains a new appreciation for the role of women in Japanese society, and especially for the courage of his new wife.	2002-11-19
US	50336855	R2F8S9CY6QJXGG	1566492475	708590875	Travels With A Tangerine	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Interesting and extensive history	'Travels with a Tangerine' is an excellent travel book and history book that chronicles the adventures of Ibn Battuta, one of the most famous Muslim explorers of the Euroepean 'Middle Ages'.  Mackintosh-Smith, a 17-year resident of Yemen, follows \\"IB's\\" route from Morocco to Egypt to the Saudi Arabian peninsula to the Crimea and Istanbul, IB's 'Travels' as his main guide.  Mackintosh-Smith's adventures are as compelling as IB's, and it is remarkable how much has not changed in the almost 700 years since IB began what was a 25-year journey that took him to China and back.  The narrative is both entertaining and informative; however, it was a little dense at times, and I wish I knew more about IB and Muslim history before I started the book.  The author gives one of the most balanced accounts of the modern Muslim world that I have ever read, and it's great to read about regular people who respect themselves and others, in contrast to the sensationalistic news reports we are bombarded with every night.  A good book and a great adventure.	2002-08-26
US	50336855	R1AW2J5EP3GBVM	0525946233	895595530	The Darwin Awards II: Unnatural Selection	Books	3	2	5	N	N	It's amazing we've survived this long!	How the human species has survived is a mystery to me after reading this entertaining book.  From people trying to save chickens in a well and drowning themselves (the chicken flew out), to a six-foot man diving into a four-foot pool, to my personal favorite of the mother smearing her son with honey to get a good picture of a bear -- I have little hope we will survive much longer.  I will say that after several accounts, one's head begins to spin, and the references to other accounts after every entry is confusing.  I did enjoy the introductions to each chapter, which dealt with science and other related topics.  Fun read.	2002-05-19
US	50336855	R1ZZ69KWZX4AZH	0061011975	774562648	Bundori	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another winner!	After reading the first book in this series, 'Shinju', I was expecting a little bit of a letdown -- I didn't think this book would be as good; after all, it's hard to be inventive in the 'sequel'. However, I was pleasantly surprised that this novel was just as good as the first.  The same characters, both good and bad, populate this novel, as well as new (presumably recurring) characters.  The plot is complex: Sano Ichiro must hunt for another murderer, someone who is apparently fulfilling an ancestor's blood debt by killing his ancestor's rivals.  The cast of characters and their motivations is sometimes hard to follow, and watching poor Sano get -- literally and politically -- beaten up is sometimes hard to read, but you have to admire a man who risks everything to find the truth.  Rowland also captures the mental conflict between truth and preserving honor in 17th Century Japan.  I learned a lot.	2002-05-19
US	50336855	R2FTXR12FXG301	0061009504	421509995	Shinju	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A Great Historical Detective Story	This book was recommended to me by a friend, and now I am hooked!  'Shinju' is a mystery about a supposed ritual double lovers' suicide (the title is the term that is used to refer to that act) that is in actuality a murder.  Ichiro Sano, a young man recently appointed 'yoriki'(policeman) is assigned to a cursory investigation of what most of his colleagues and superiors view as a dishonorable and distasteful incident.  Sano's takes his duties seriously, however, and almost loses his life -- and more importantly -- his honor in uncovering both a disturbing crime and a treasonous plot.  Set against the backdrop of the Tokugawa Shogunate, this novel is educational as well as entertaining, and I really didn't know where the plot would take me as I read; the hero gets in some pretty dangerous situations. Rowland really paints a realistic picture of Japan in the 17th Century, with its dependence on personal obligation and honor.  It's both frustrating and eye-opening for the reader to discover that although the hero knows 'whodunnit', his society prohibits him from bringing the guilty party (or in this case 'parties') to justice.	2002-04-21
US	50336855	R21E4JSN8DINIH	0761122745	517932958	Non Campus Mentis: World History According to College Students	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Gud Examannation of Edukation Tuday	Two things struck me as I read this book: one, students in 'higher education' are universal, especially in their misreading/misunderstanding of history (which I teach); and two, students' mistakes can be hilarious.  This book is a must for any teacher on any level who teaches not only history, but any subject that involves the buzzwords 'critical thinking' (and the lack thereof).  Although funny, these entries also bring up some troubling questions about our future leaders: yes, they know Hitler is a \\"bad man\\", but do they know exactly WHY?  Do they understand the difference between 'Russia' and the 'Soviet Union'?  Do they even know where that part of the world is?  Every term, I receive answers to questions on exams very much like Henriksson has collected, and a brief sample includes items such as \\"Slaves were wiped severely\\" rather than \\"whipped\\"; Pearl Harbor happened \\"December 7, 1942 -- a day that will live in infamy\\"; and \\"Teddy Roosevelt came up with the New Deal\\".  I laugh, then I cry...	2002-04-10
US	50336855	RYHSOACR9XLCZ	0425144658	406786320	Seneca Falls Inheritance	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Blend of History and Mystery	\\"Seneca Falls Inheritance\\" is both the story of the birth of the women's suffrage movement in 1848, and the murder of a woman who tried to exercise her economic rights in a world where women were viewed as inferior beings.  Elizabeth Cady Stanton, one of the 19th Century's most influential women, makes an appearance at the beginning of her long career in fighting for women's rights; she is joined by the leading fictional character, Glynis Tryon, Seneca Falls' \\"free thinking\\" librarian, who will fight her own battles to help discover the identity of a murderer.  The plot raises several important issues of both the 19th Century and today: domestic abuse, discrimination, illicit relationships, and how women are judged differently than men when it comes to aggression and tenacity.  There's also a hint of romance between Glynis and the town's constable, plus a connection between the librarian and her recently departed patron.  This is both an entertaining and informative novel.	2002-04-10
US	50336855	RKDTV4HP3AOFM	0887391591	840394991	Death of a Dad: The Nursery School Murders	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Comic Mystery Falls Short	At times, Jake Fuch's \\"Death of a Dad\\" hits the mark with a satirical look at the inhabitants of a Marin County suburb who are faced with the murder of an obnoxious dad on the \\"corn meal table\\" of a nursery school.  Maren, one of the teachers in the school, is pulled into the mystery of 'whodunnit' and the novel has moments of both true suspense and true hilarity as she uncovers -- and sometimes purposely covers up -- leads on who the perpetrator of the crime is.  The cast of characters include her husband (an English professor who seems clueless), her fellow teacher (who can't remember directions anywhere, and is a well-drawn character), the head of the school (who seems the likeliest suspect), and a clown who does porno films (after a botched 'enhancement' operation).  Unfortunately -- at least for me -- the novel and the writing style left a lot to be desired.  I ended up more intrigued by Maren and her husband, not to mention Boffo the aforementioned porno clown, than by who did the murder.  I especially disliked the writing style at the end; not to give away too much, but there's a gathering of all the players and an explanation of what it all means that seems contrived.  However, when the story and style hit, it's a bullseye, and Fuchs captures the Northern California mindset very well.	2002-04-08
US	50336855	R1PLDYMSYB1R0M	0425119920	742127435	Strangers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Engrossing Thriller That Kept Me Guessing	&quot;Strangers&quot; at times treads familiar Koontz territory: a large cast, intricate plotting, bizarre plot twists, and the contradiction between life as we know it and life as it really is.  The main protagonists -- and there are quite a few in this book -- are exceptionally well drawn and complex: there's Dom the writer, Ginger the doctor, Brendan the priest, Ernie the ex-Marine, and Jack the ex-commando/thief, plus several others, who begin to experience strange, paranoid behavior.  Eventually (and it's a 681 pp book, so it takes a while) the characters converge on a small motel in Nevada to find out what is happening to them.  I can say that the explanation took me by surprise -- not the actual event, but the fact that I had several possibilities right up until the moment of discovery -- and was plausible within the world of the novel.  I rank this book right up there with my favorite Koontz novel, &quot;Midnight&quot;.	2002-04-08
US	50336855	R3JIHTQFLFHPCH	0140075569	679864143	It Was a Dark and Stormy Night: The Best (?) from the Bulwer-Lytton Contest	Books	4	24	26	N	N	My Students Sometimes Write Like This (Unintentionally)	It was a hot and dusty night (for you see, dear review reader, I live in a desert, where the nocturnal temperatures sometimes do not go below 90 degrees -- that is in the height of summer, as when I began this humorous tome I am reviewing) when I sat down to read the submissions of frustrated Victorian 'wannabees' who have more time on their hands than American Vice Presidents (present times excluded, of course) to dish out poorly conceived sentences modeled on that paragon of forgotten 19th Century literature, Bulwer-Lytton, whose flowery prose brings to mind the brain of soap opera producers who don't know when to stop; and neither did I, because this book was so darn funny, I almost wet myself -- therefore, I highly recommend it as a pleasant diversion better than Buffy the Vampire Slayer -- and that's saying a lot.	2001-11-04
US	50336855	R1GT5PV6ATEFLU	0452274303	663337946	Price of Honor: Muslim Women Lift the Veil of Silence on the Islamic World	Books	5	47	49	N	N	A &quot;Must Read&quot; In Times Like These!	This is one of the most informative and interesting books I have read in quite awhile.  Jan Goodwin provides an excellent examination of both Islam and Islamists -- not always the same thing, especially in today's world.  The first chapter has an understandable recreation of the birth of Islam, and how its prophet, Mohammed, viewed women.  This beginning is severely contrasted with the ways in which many Muslim countries treat and sometimes oppress women -- all the while, stating that the Koran allows this behavior.  Through interviewing women from several Muslim countries -- Afganistan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Jordan, Iran, Iraq and others -- Goodwin presents a disturbing picture of how women are depicted and controlled, despite the freedoms guaranteed to them by Islam.  There are several surprises: who would have thought that women have more freedom (comparatively) in Iran than in Pakistan, which had a female prime minister, Benazir Bhutto?  That women raped in many Muslim countries are blamed and shamed, perhaps even killed by relatives, even if the rape occurred due to home invasion?  And that 'hymen restoration surgery' is offered in some countries where if a bride is not a virgin on her wedding night, she will be killed.  These examples are just the beginning of an in-depth look Muslim women.  Of course, not every situation is negative.  Many women have a good sense of what Islam really says about their rights; also, there is a good sense that, as in all religion, the extremists may get the press, but the average believer knows the truth of their beliefs and the rights for both men and women.  I have recommended this book to several of my classes as a place to begin studying the background for world events.	2001-11-04
US	50336855	R3W3LATW11O7LW	0060977426	271010039	Wry Martinis	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Humorous, Insightful, and a Little Snobby	Although I truly enjoyed this book, by the time I finished I really had a good sense of East Coast life, especially those who mix in circles where royalty is called by their first names while on a cruise down the Amazon!  Some chapters in this collection of essays are laugh-out-loud funny, such as 'Hemlines of History'; others taught me a lot about aircraft and aircraft carriers; still others had me bored and wondering if the essay was supposed to be poking fun at the elite, or written in complete seriousness about a world I know nothing about, nor really care about.  Maybe its because I live on the West Coast, and we are more informal, but some of Buckley's concerns and gripes don't seem all that important to me.  However, I do recommend this book because it is well written and a wonderful example of the lost art of essay writing.	2001-11-04
US	50336855	RJS54HBIM3M2Q	0517000431	918077532	Wolffile	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Poetic, But Predictable	This was a very frustrating book -- at times, the author waxed poetic in describing characters and nature, at others, individuals appear and die without the reader understanding what role they served in the narrative.  The basic plot is pretty predictable: man meets woman at wedding of her sister; sister and new husband vanish; husband's body (dismembered) found; search for killer; sex between man and woman (this scene just happens and the word 'love' is used very quickly by these characters); more people ripped to shreds; personal revelations, etc.  The author goes in several directions at once in terms of what the whole story means, and in most cases, I figured out exactly what was going to happen before it did.  The ending was disturbing on many levels, and I found myself reading a few paragraphs twice in disbelief -- to me, some of the characters' motivations had no basis in reality...or unreality, as the case may be.  Was it diverting?  Briefly.  Was it worth my time?  Still debating that one.  Would I read another book by Jack Woods?  Maybe...I would at least start it.	2001-11-04
US	50336855	R1S07RCPMP6M1F	0151572526	714998075	Marie Bonaparte: A Life	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Intriguing, But Incomplete, Biography	I came to Celia Bertin's &quot;Marie Bonaparte: A Life&quot;, knowing absolutely nothing about the subject.  After completing the book, I know a little about this fascinating woman, but still feel shortchanged.  Bertin, to my understanding, looks at Bonaparte from a psychological standpoint -- which, based on the events in her life, is certainly a valid approach -- that unfortunately leaves out some much-needed facts.  The first and last sections of the biography are wonderful and informative.  The middle is a muddle, and very repetitive.      My biggest problem with the narrative is the lack of followthrough in certain areas; for example, Bonaparte at one point attends a religious school and becomes devout.  In the next sentence, she is a lifelong &quot;atheist&quot;, with no explanation of why or how.  Her daughter, Eugenie, is divorced twice.  This is mentioned -- surprisingly in a psychological biography -- with no reason for these divorces.  Bonaparte's grandson is ill; we never know from what, although 'illness' is mentioned several times in a serious manner.  Her loveless marriage to a latent homosexual is not analyzed; yet, late in the book Marie confesses she does love her husband (her numerous lovers and her admittedly frigidity are interesting, but incomplete).  Finally, Bertin assumes an extensive knowledge of the major players in French psychological analysis during the early 20th century, and many times refers to arguments and debates that not only digress from the biography, but remain unexplained and confusing.     Would I recommend this book?  Yes, as an introduction and starting point for a more extensive biography that hopefully will be published on this fascinating woman who mixed with royalty and science, and was, as Bertin states, &quot;the last Bonaparte&quot;.	2001-08-23
US	50336855	RJ8NJE9HX469M	0425107469	50861192	Watchers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Smart Dogs and Mutants: What more is there?	In this 1980s work by Dean R. Koontz, familiar territory of genetic experimentation is explored, and the theme of man aspiring to godhood recurs throughout the novel.  The basic plot concerns a genetically enhanced dog, 'Einstein', and his nemesis, a quasi-baboon creature called 'The Outsider'.  These two have a telepathic link, and since The Outsider wants to destroy the dog, most of the story involves the pursuit of evil after good.  The main human characters, Travis and Nora, are complex and well-drawn.  The peripheral characters are those found in many Koontz novels, some compassionate, some doomed, some tragic.  The best scenes are in the beginning, where Travis meets the dog, and later, when Travis, Nora, and 'Einstein' try to communicate; picturing a dog playing scrabble -- and learning to read a book -- is priceless.  There are some obvious plot developments, and the ending is a little unfinished, but there are enough twists and turns to keep one interested in how it all pans out.  A good summer book.	2001-08-17
US	50336855	R2DHV4HAQC426C	096190884X	457341973	Soiled Doves: Prostitution in the Early West (Women of the West)	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Interesting Subject, But Presentation Problems	This book, in terms of subject matter, is an enjoyable introduction to a much-maligned group of women who were instrumental in the settlement -- if not civilization -- of the West: the Prostitute.  Anne Seagraves does a great job in using case histories of these women, both the successes and the tragedies, to outline the impact of these 'soiled doves' on the history of the West.  Especially interesting to this reader was the different types of prostitution and the levels of prostitution: the Parlor House, the Boarding House, the Crib, and the Streetwalker.  There is also an excellent chapter on Chinese Prostitutes, whose conditions were the worst and whose 'masters' perpetuated slavery long after 1865.  Unfortunately, what distracts the reader from the information are the grammatical, typographical, and other errors that permeate the book.  To give one example: a woman is described as being 'Scotch'; the correct usage is 'Scots'.  These errors diminish the impact of the book and the lonely women whose stories need to be told.  There are also some liberties taken with the emotions and conversations of some of the historical personages.  While that style makes the book personal, it perhaps is not as scholarly as it could be.  All in all, however, a good introduction into this aspect of history.	2001-08-17
US	50336855	R3OX525CPHNLNK	0451200101	520057645	The Experiment	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Superior scientific thriller	At first, &quot;The Experiment&quot; by John Darnton covers familiar medical-science thriller ground: a secret society of 'mad' scientists, possible cloning, medical experimentation gone horribly wrong, etc.  What separates this thriller from the rest is the complexity of the leading characters (Jude, Skyler, and Tillie), who react -- mostly -- in realistic ways to fantastic plot points Darnton piles onto the story.  The basic narrative deals with two men, Skyler and Jude, almost identical 'twins', whose quest for the truth leads them from New York to Arizona to the Sea Islands off the coast of Georgia (where Skyler was raised on a small island by a mysterious group).  Tillie, and expert in twins studies, is Jude's lover, but also connected indirectly to Skyler, providing a different kind of romantic tension.  Although the reader can guess some plot developments well before the characters, Darnton adds enough surprises to keep you guessing.  In addition, it is enjoyable to see how the characters deal with the discoveries they make, and the affect these discoveries have on the emotional triangle at the heart of the novel.  One major fault is the last quarter of the book, which moves very quickly; although the major answers to the reader's questions are given, there's enough ambiguity to possibly pave the way for a sequel.  A cut above the average book of this genre.	2001-07-09
US	50336855	R1BBHABE13RY50	0312973012	232206790	Photo Finish	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Modern Mystery, Modern Issues	In Ngaio Marsh's &quot;Photo Finish&quot;, Inspector Alleyn travels to Marsh's back yard -- New Zealand -- to consult with an Opera diva who is being stalked by a mysterious photographer.  Unflattering photos of 'The Sommita', as she is known, have driven her -- as well as her 'patron' and his staff -- to distraction.  Alleyn, along with his artist wife, Agatha Troy (who is to paint a portrait of the singer), journey to a remote island hideaway where murder -- no surprise -- quickly occurs.  Marsh peppers the story with well-drawn characters: a young composer, surly Italian servants, mysterious millionaire...but frankly, I guessed who the murderer was early on, as well as the motive.  The novel is still enjoyable, but other Alleyn mysteries are more exciting and more, well, 'mysterious'.	2001-06-20
US	50336855	R1J1TC8DZC2T62	039331989X	654759407	The Chan's Great Continent: China in Western Minds	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A good examination of how others view China	In Jonathan Spence's &quot;The Chan's Great Continent&quot;, the author takes an interesting approach to Chinese history: examining how the West viewed China (and usually tranformed it into their own image).  I really enjoyed the first half of the book, and thought that Spence's idea of Marco Polo possibly not really reaching China proper a very interesting and provocative theory, which I do agree with, based on the evidence.  However, as I read the later chapters, there seemed to be endless repetition of the same points: Westerners who used Chinese characters to point to evils in their own society; Westerners who saw China as an earthly paradise superior to the West; and racist views on how Chinese were treated in the West, especially America.  Not that I don't think these points important, but frankly, I became confused by the last chapters, dealing with the 20th century; I think the book runs out of steam by the last third, and Spence does not go into detail with some of the authors and events that he is describing. If you know little about China, the later chapters will not help your understanding.  I do recommend this book, but knowledge of Chinese history would be beneficial to fully comprehend the excellent points Spence makes.	2001-06-18
US	50336855	RBXEWKU5W82C6	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Review Factor	If you like strong opinions in a straightforward style, then this is the book for you.  Bill O'Reilly takes his 'no spin zone'/take-no-prisoners attitude into the book realm with this work, which is an enjoyable read despite its simplistic chapter titles ('The Sex Factor', etc.).  Partly biographical, 'The O'Reilly Factor' treads familiar ground to anyone familiar with the author's show on the Fox network: working class background, fairly conservative, confrontational, and, in the author's mind, to the point with no 'spin'.  There's a lot of humor as well, and a very good distillation of the conflicts that are apparent in American society today, and of course, O'Reilly's solutions to these conflicts.  This is not a book that will take a long time to read -- and unfortunately, its major flaw is that once done, its points make no longlasting impact on the reader.  Unless, of course, you are already a fan, and then the book tells you what you already know: we are living in ridiculous times, with leaders who contribute to the problems rather than solve them, and a society which needs to get some kind of moral backbone.  Since the book has topped the best seller list, O'Reilly must be hitting a nerve, whether you agree with him or not!	2001-06-18
US	50336855	RHLRG48KU2ALC	0425155943	273144078	Contagion	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Another Threatening Illness, Another Hero	On one level, Robin Cook's &quot;Contagion&quot; covers familiar ground: a dedicated doctor, a health care system out of control, and a potential plague that could wipe out mankind.  The hero in this case is Jack Stapleton, a medical examiner whose loss of family transforms him into an irreverent, anti-authority figure, a white man who lives in Harlem and rides a bicycle through the city.  He also, of course, is the only one to see a pattern in  several illnesses that appear at an HMO in New York City; illnesses that are rare and deadly, such as the hantavirus.  Cook also delves into the advertising world with one character, Terese, who may not be all that she seems.  Cook plays several plotlines concurrently, and for the most part successfully, although how they converge is a little predictable.  The main illness, a strain of influenza that wiped out more people than World War I, is the most realistic part of the novel: Cook knows his viruses, and has done his historical research.  At times predictable, but still gripping, &quot;Contagion&quot; is on the high end of medical thrillers.	2001-04-17
US	50336855	R1GNFDCYDJSFZ4	0312970102	717851872	Killer Dolphin	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Theatrical Mystery	In &quot;Killer Dolphin&quot;, an Inspector Alleyn mystery, Ngaio Marsh takes her celebrated detective into the world of the theatre: The Dolphin Theatre, to be exact.  Alleyn himself makes a late appearance; for the first part of the book, the protagonist is Peregrine Jay (originally from New Zealand), a playwright and theatrical director who becomes caught up in theft, murder, betrayal, and even romance.  The crime revolves around a glove reputed to belong to the son of the greatest English playwright (I won't spoil it!) and its connection to a shadowy billionaire.  By the time Alleyn appears, Jay has witnessed backstage romance, intrigue, and mercurial tempers that threaten the production and possibly even the actors' lives.  Marsh captures the theatrical world well, and expresses the diverse personalities and creativity that flourish on the live stage.  She also delivers suspense and just enough romance to satisfy the reader without detracting from the main plot and character development.  A good diversion.	2001-04-17
US	50336855	R3N3PSU54LR9G1	0312187068	408618858	Bloody Mary	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Good Biography of Tragic Life	In Carolly Erickson's &quot;Bloody Mary&quot;, the life of Mary Tudor, the author provides an in-depth analysis of a monarch much maligned in her own -- and our -- time.  From her early years as Henry VIII's cherished daughter, to his rejection of her and her mother (Catherine of Aragon), to the parade of wives Henry used and abused, Erickson paints a vivid picture of English court life during the mid-1500s. Sometimes, the picture is too vivid and the digressions from the main story of Mary and her trials and tribulations are too extensive.  By the time Mary miraculously becomes queen in 1553, the reader is exhausted; the author also seems to have run out of steam, and all the painstaking research and background give way to an almost cursory examination of Mary's brief reign.  The book also stresses Mary's Catholic piety a little too much, perhaps as a justification of the persecution of Protestants that earned her the nickname of &quot;Bloody&quot;. On the good side, Erickson makes Mary a real person -- a very troubled real person; on the slightly negative side, Mary gets lost in the details provided on the court, the machinations, and the politics  of the age.  You'll need a lot of time and patience to finish this book, but the reward is an excellent interpretation of a woman who paved the way for her much more popular sister: Elizabeth I.	2001-04-17
US	50336855	R1RWTZ55GTMAEO	0688073018	470742788	To the Scaffold: The Life of Marie Antoinette	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Good But Unfocused Biography	In Carolly Erickson's biography of Marie Antoinette, &quot;To the Scaffold&quot;, the author presents a wonderful picture of an often maligned historical enigma.  We see Marie's origins as one of the many daughters of Maria Theresa of Austria (one of the most formidable rulers of all time), her arranged marriage to the future King Louis XVI of France (a man more comfortable in the woodshop than the palace), her fifteen years as Queen of France, and the revolution that portrayed her as silly and evil.  Erickson evokes the atmosphere of pre-revolution France well, and little snippets of the excess and immorality of the French upper class was informative (apparently incest was common with fathers and daughters).  However, I don't feel that I know much more about Marie than before I read the book.  Almost half the book deals with others in her life or the political scene.  Also given short attention is the Swedish nobleman who was Marie's long-term lover.  It would also have been nice to have a wrap-up of the royal children and the others who played so prominently in Marie's life -- they are simply abandoned, and the book ends abruptly.  On one level, this is very effective -- after all, with Marie's death the world she knew ended -- but so many digressions are in the rest of the book, a better ending would have been nice.	2001-01-17
US	50336855	R2YJEEWRIK23ZA	0425155404	875458447	Invasion	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Engrossing Medical Sci-fi	In &quot;Invasion&quot;, Robin Cook leaves the earthly realm of disease to pose the idea of the ultimate invader: a disease that originates from outer space.  Cook's usual cast of heroes and villains battle each other physically and philosophically; interestingly enough, the 'villains' are trying to clean up earth's environment, which lends a nice ambiguity to half the book.  I also enjoyed the fact that Beau, the first character to be 'invaded', never completely loses himself or his love for his girlfriend Cassie, no matter what other changes he goes through.  Despite the death and destruction the infected wreak on the heroes, the lead characters, I felt, were more deeply drawn than in many of Cook's novels.  There are cliches and obvious plot points, but the story is still gripping and intriguing.  Could use a sequel, as Cook leaves the door open for future 'invaders'.	2001-01-17
US	50336855	RX0PUVYGDVKBH	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Funny and Strange Ways to Survive	In &quot;The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook&quot;, compilers Joshua Piven and David Borgenicht present a handful of strange and dangerous situations: landing a plane, escaping a mountain lion, jumping from a building into a dumpster, breaking into a car -- all in an entertaining way.  Drawing from a list of experts (outlined in the back of the book), the reader can learn all kinds of interesting skills that, in the idea of the compilers, could save your life.  I enjoyed the book, and it takes no more than 90 minutes to read.  However, some sections were confusing, and some of the illustrations would not help me if I were, say, trying to spin my car to elude pursuers.  I hope that I never have to jump from a motorcycle to a moving car -- but at least now I know how to do it should the occasion arise.  The book does make you think about our dangerous world, if nothing else.	2001-01-17
US	50336855	R3A8AF43ABYKH3	0312968884	86328107	Singing In The Shrouds	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Cruise Mystery Keeps You Guessing...	In NgaioMarsh's &quot;Singing in the Shrouds&quot;, dependable New Scotland Yard detective Roderick Alleyn is going on a cruise -- but not a vacation.  Sent in secret to prove his hunch that a murderer is on the Cape Farewell, a cargo ship sailing to South Africa via Portugal, Alleyn meets up with an intriguing list of characters, most of whom could be legitimate subjects.  All he has to go on is a scrap of paper in the last victim's hand -- an embarkation note -- and the murderer's predilection for singing and leaving a certain flower on the victim after the murder is completed.  There are other clues, one of which I didn't get until the end, which point to the eventual culprit, but as always, Marsh delivers a wonderful analysis of character as well as a good plot.  There's also humor and an interesting portrayal of some sexuality issues that are interesting to read in a book originally published in 1958.  A good escape into a different time.	2000-12-10
US	50336855	RUST7OYG1N47I	0810928337	765167695	Alexander the Great: Man of Action, Man of Spirit	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Interesting -- if slightly complicated -- biography	Filled with great photographs of ancient art and artifacts, &quot;Alexander the Great: Man of Action, Man of Spirit&quot; is a colorful biography of one of the most important figures of the classical world.  Briant (translator: Leggatt), an historian specializing in this era, provides extensive background not only to Alexander's life, but to the social and political climate as well.  In fact, some of the background is almost TOO extensive, and in my opinion dilutes parts of the biography.  We are taken through Alexander's assumption of the Macedonian throne, his early conquests in Near Asia, his victories over Darius, and his extension of the Macedonian/Greek empire into India.  Much emphasis is given to Alexander's adoption of Persian custom; since this is Briant's specialty, sometimes this supersedes all else and becomes a little redundant.  Although the artwork and maps are wonderful, the layout of the book leaves something to be desired; near the end of the first part of the book, it took me forever to find the map illustrating the conquest of India -- it was so far back in the chapter, it wasn't useful.      One of the elements I did enjoy was the collection of ancient commentaries/history on Alexander, occuring at the end of the main part of the book.  Although the details and maps on one particular battle did nothing for me, the historical accounts of later generations, and the idolization of Alexander by not only the Greeks and Romans, but Muslims and Indians as well was fascinating.  I also thought the demonization of Alexander by some segments of the Catholic Church in the Middle Ages (naming him the Antichrist) was very interesting.  I think that this is a good introduction to the subject, as long as you tolerate some of the repetitiveness and digressions. Unfortunately, since there is so much fantasy about Alexander, we still don't know who he really was, a problem since his death centuries ago.	2000-11-28
US	50336855	R3JG3BB67K92DN	0871134942	456015766	A Single Tear: A Family's Persecution, Love, and Endurance in Communist China	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Excellent Depiction of Life in Post-1949 China	Wu Ningkun's &quot;A Single Tear&quot; is an excellent look at a young Chinese man whose decision to return to China from America after the 1949 Mao Zedong revolution has lasting and potentially tragic  implications for both him and his family.  Like many Chinese who emigrated to other parts of the world after WWII, Wu believes that China will be able to enter a better, prosperous and independent phase with the new Mao regime.  Although quickly disillusioned, Wu and his family remain, subject to imprisonment,  deprivation, and humiliation, especially during the infamous &quot;Cultural Revolution&quot; of the 1960s.  By the time of Mao's death in the 1970s, the Wu family has been moved -- separately and together -- from city to country and back again, persecuted for their religious beliefs (Christian), and distrustful of neighbors and friends with the constant denunciations that have become standard.  This book will show you what I have heard firsthand in China: the destruction of the intellectuals and &quot;old&quot; by a new generation with no sense of the past.  Very moving and inspirational.	2000-11-14
US	50336855	R3NKKJGOOFFSGX	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Engrossing and Informative	This book is not only artistically well written, it provides a wonderful glimpse into Africa from 1959-1990s.  Of the six  characters in the book -- Preacher Nathan Price, wife Orleanna, and daughters Rachel, Leah, Adah and Ruth May -- five narrate the story.  The reader knows almost from the beginning that one of the daughters will die; Kingsolver does an excellent job of building the suspense, as each of the four children seem in some kind of danger at one point or another.  But the suspense is not melodramatic; as the family tries to adjust to the Congo, their previous values and expectations fall by the wayside, and for some of the characters, danger lurks all around.  Kingsolver captures perfectly the lack of Western understanding of Africa; Nathan Price is determined to 'save' the natives, whether they like it or not.  His refusal to examine the natives on their own terms brings tragic results, and turns the village of Kilanga -- as well as the  women in his own family -- against him.  The characters are drawn beautifully, and added to the narrative is a powerful analysis of the role of the US in Africa and the self-destruction the Congo went through (and is still going through today, as the Congo has become &quot; Zaire&quot;, then Congo again, etc).  An excellent book.	2000-11-08
US	50336855	RBTS3SD21DRIT	0684822709	522258161	Man and Microbes: Disease and Plagues in History and Modern Times	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Great Examination of Disease and History	In Arno Karlen's &quot;Man and Microbes&quot;, history is approached through the relationship of disease to mankind, starting with the first  humans to the present.  This is a fascinating examination of the microscopic world's impact on the macroscopic world.  The origins of some diseases, such as cholera, the 'black plague' and  AIDS is covered, as well as epidemics affecting only small parts of the world.  Throughout the book, it is emphasized that we could be on the brink of new pandemics -- the most obvious example is AIDS -- that will not only dramatically reduce population, but change our world view and lifestyle.  Modern pandemics and our responses to them are compared and contrasted to past pandemics, with the resulting opinion that although we live in a technologically savvy world, our reactions of fear and panic have not changed all that much.  My only minor criticism by the last quarter of the book is too much repetition; I found my mind wandering and was a little confused by the end.  However, I think that this is an excellent book for those interested in interdisciplinary (biology and history) studies.	2000-10-03
US	50336855	R1IBUKAM0I8YVG	0425119653	667355645	Mutation	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Frankenstein (Jr.) Strikes Again	Although a little heavy handed with allusions to Mary Shelley's  &quot;Frankenstein&quot;, Robin Cook's &quot;Mutation&quot; is a good  enough read.  The plot revolves around genetic manipulation of the unborn:  Victor (named just like in the Shelley work) genetically enhances five  embryos, one of which becomes his second son (a genius), VJ (for Victor  Jr.).  By VJ's tenth birthday, several people close to him have  mysteriously died from a rare form of liver cancer, and Marsha, his mother,  begins to suspect that all is not right.  By the time she convinces Victor  that their son has, to put it mildly, a personality disorder, VJ has begun  to conduct his own experiments in genetic research.  Cook, as always,  includes great biological plot points, and at the least, the book is  educational and raises several issues that are as relevant now as when the  book was first published several years ago.  However, the element of  surprise just isn't there, and an attentive reader can spot what's coming a  mile away.  The end implies that the story isn't over...but isn't as  ambiguous as Shelley's &quot;Frankenstein&quot;.  Or as profound...	2000-09-12
US	50336855	R3GEKWROB035XP	0140258205	937614457	Nefertiti: Egypt's Sun Queen	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Misleading Title	I had been looking forward to reading this book since I bought it in  April.  Unfortunately, my expectations were not fulfilled, and the book as  a whole disappointed me.  Although the author provides a good view of life  in Egypt's 18th Dynasty (New Kingdom), the actual examination of  Nefertiti's life is sadly lacking.  Of the 198 pages (excluding notes), I  would estimate only 1/4-1/3 is actually spent deciphering the title's  subject.  More time seems to be spent on Nefertiti's husband, Akhenaten,  and life in general during this period.  Granted, the main point becomes,  by the end of the book, that we simply do not have all the pieces to link  together about Nefertiti, where she came from, and what happened to her.   However, I found the author, in trying to relate all the possibilities and  theories, to be more confusing than enlightening.  Also, I found  descriptions of tomb paintings and reliefs to be confusing, and these  descriptions presupposed extensive knowledge of Egyptian art.  I would read  a description of an artwork, and then realize it had nothing to do with the  picture or graphic provided.  I finished this book with a sense of relief,  and although I did learn some useful information about this era, I was  extremely disappointed in how the information was presented, and in the  misleading title.	2000-08-15
US	50336855	RJYG8JNABQY4V	0425100650	642390946	Twilight Eyes	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Carnies and Goblins...oh my	In &quot;Twilight Eyes&quot;, Koontz reveals the insulated world of the  &quot;carnies&quot;, who work carnivals at state fairs and other venues.   Into the Sombra Bros. carnival comes 'Slim', who used to be Carl Stanfuess,  a 17-year-old from Oregon who's on the run for murdering his Uncle Denton.   As the story opens, Slim arrives after the carnival has ended its nightly  revels, and sees what he calls a 'goblin' about to sabotage the bumper  cars.  Slim sees these goblins quite often, since his 'twilight eyes' of  purple indicate a psychic ability to see through the goblins' human  disguises; in fact, it's revealed that the murdered Uncle Denton was a  goblin.  Slim kills the saboteur, and what follows is a sometimes gripping,  sometimes ludicrous adventure that pits Slim, his new love Rya, and several  &quot;carnies&quot; with various degrees of psychic ability against a  veritable goblin army bent on destroying mankind.  The book is broken into  two parts; in my opinion, the first part is superior.  The second part has  its moments, but in my opinion goes over the top and manipulates the reader  needlessly with the idea that someone's gonna die.  When I discovered what  the goblins really were, I wasn't impressed; I was humorously impressed  that a 17-year-old and a young woman with no mention of education could  discuss the scientific orgins of the goblins and philosophy as if they were  university professors.	2000-08-07
US	50336855	R96BM4KGOENXC	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bridget is Back!	In the sequel to Bridget Jones' &quot;Diary&quot;, &quot;The Edge of Reason&quot; picks up almost immediately where the Diary left off: Bridget is with Mark Darcy, and thinks she should be 'happy'.  But all is not well:  Mark seems more interested in football, Bridget's friends are having  problems, her mother is off to Africa, her father is drinking, and a new  character, Rebecca (with &quot;thighs like a baby giraffe&quot;), is after  Mark.  Plus, Bridget is still obsessed with her weight, her smoking, and  how many alcohol &quot;units&quot; she consumes.  How Bridget copes -- or  doesn't -- with all of the above makes for an hilarious read.  However,  there are some serious moments and some characters that sometimes don't fit  well into the novel; for example, Bridget and Shazz's trip to Thailand  starts off one way and ends very differently.  These minor glitches don't  ruin the book, and maybe author Helen Fielding was trying to see if her  character learns anything from her trials and tribulations (hint: not  quite).  The highest comedy point is Bridget's Rome &quot;interview&quot;  with Colin Firth: it will make you laugh out loud.  (Fielding actually  thanks Firth in the acknowledgements.)  Definitely worth reading.	2000-07-28
US	50336855	RTMYYKF51Y40C	0801062918	814459060	The Cult of the Virgin: Catholic Mariology and the Apparitions of Mary (Cri Books)	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Interesting outline of Mariology from Protestant perspective	In Miller and Sample's &quot;The Cult of the Virgin Mary&quot;, the authors attempt to outline what Mariology is from the Protestant perspective.  The book also covers some of the well-known apparitions of  Mary: Fatima, Lourdes, Guadelupe, and Medjugorje (former Yugoslavia).   The  main thesis is that veneration of Mary is unbiblical, and therefore this  practice will continue to divide the Catholic and Protestant churches.  The  authors back up their opinions with Biblical verses, and make a good point  about how the veneration of Mary sometimes invalidates the role Jesus plays  for Christianity: the redeemer and mediator between God and Man.  The  examination of apparitions of Mary is not as strong, and in the last  chapter, the point is made repetitively that the apparitions cannot be from  God, therefore they must be from the other side.  I will say that although  the authors claim to look at this purely from the scriptural side, and  therefore with a certain degree of 'objectivity', there are moments when it  is obvious that no matter what is 'discovered' (for example: one of the  authors visits Medjugorje and examines events there), if it ain't  Protestant, it ain't acceptable.  I also thought it interesting that some  side notes in the text, such as on Buddha being an atheist (according to  &quot;some scholars&quot; as the book puts it) detract from what was  supposed to be the aforementioned focus on Mariology.  I thought this book  interesting for the most part.	2000-07-28
US	50336855	R161WLWXYQJ35B	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Modern Jane Austen With A Twist	Helen Fielding's &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary&quot; is an hilarious example of the modern 'singleton' in London, although the storyline is universal.  Bridget Jones is single,and obsessed about weight, smoking, men, and life  in general.  We meet her friends: Jude, Shazzer, Magda, and Tom -- along  with their significant and not-so-significant others, including  &quot;Vile&quot; Richard and Daniel Cleaver, with whom Bridget flirts and  sleeps with obsessively and compulsively.  To top off the list of  characters, the dominant force in Bridget's life is her mother, who not  only lives in her own little world, but drags her unwilling husband and  daughter with her.  In between Bridget's trysts and trials, such elements  as television, literature, May-December romances, 'Smug Marrieds', and  trendy fashions and bars are skewered in the 'diary' Bridget keeps.  The  end is satisfying and throughout are constant references to the &quot;Pride  and Prejudice&quot; miniseries with Colin Firth, another obsession of  Bridget and her friends.  This strange homage to Jane Austen is  encapsulated by Bridget's own &quot;Mr. Darcy&quot; with whom her parents  attempt to fix her up. The quick pace and witty dialogue will leave you  begging for more; a great read.	2000-07-20
US	50336855	R1NA79O23R5K95	1883642566	459662413	The Farfarers: Before the Norse	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Kernals of Good Stuff -- But Hard to Get There!	In Farley Mowat's &quot;The Farfarers; Before the Norse&quot;, he poses an interesting theory that the Norse were not the first Europeans to land in North America.  The first and last parts of the book are good, with some  compelling evidence to support Mowat's idea that ancient &quot;Albans&quot;  (people from the Hebrides/north of Scotland) made it to Iceland, Greenland,  and Northeast Canada hundreds of years before the Norse.  This evidence  includes stone watchtowers (cairns) and primary source material from other  Europeans.  Unfortunately, the middle of the book gets bogged down (it took  me over a month to get through it, mostly due to lack of interest) with the  gradual migration of the Albans to Scotland and the northern islands.  It's  very confusing and unfocused from what I thought was the point of the book.   Focus on the subject is the main problem for the entire work, and although  some of the digressions are interesting, they dilute the main point.   There's good material for a smaller book -- and a smaller book should have  been written.	2000-07-05
US	50336855	R3GC8AC5Y2683J	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Historical Mystery Without Cliches	&quot;The Alienist&quot;, by Caleb Carr, is one of the best mystery novels I have read.  Granted, it's not for everyone: there's no quick fix, no romance, no completely happy ending.  Starting in 1919 with the death of Theodore Roosevelt (a minor character in the novel), the journalist  narrator, John Moore, takes us back to 1896, when a string of horrible  child murders baffled New York City.  However, there's a call not to  investigate: the victims are primarily &quot;boy whores&quot; who dress as  girls and sometimes cater to the rich and powerful, not to mention the  seedy underbelly of NYC.  The investigation becomes unofficial, and brings  together a diverse and memorable cast of characters: Roosevelt, Moore,  Laszlo Kreizler (an &quot;Alienist&quot; or psychologist), the Isaacson  brothers (Jewish detectives not completely accepted by the police in this  era), and Sara Howard, a woman who dares to dream of policework.  In  addition to Roosevelt, real-life notables who briefly appear include Jacob  Riis (&quot;How the Other Half Lives&quot;), and J.P. Morgan.  The search  for this &quot;alienated&quot;/serial killer is engrossing, and Carr  includes what for the time were controversial and groundbreaking  investigative tools such as fingerprinting.  With the present debates over  DNA evidence, the reader can see a parallel from just over a hundred years  ago, when crime and criminals were only prosecuted if middle/upper class  whites were victims. Some readers may not like the last quarter of the  book: there are no happy endings in the traditional sense. Good history and  good mystery.	2000-04-28
US	50336855	R2024T3YGY3OZV	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Moonlight Bay Revisited	Although not as suspenseful as &quot;Midnight&quot;, &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; is a great addition to the Koontz Moonlight Bay saga.  The basic plot concerns Christopher Snow, who suffers from a pigmentation disorder ('XP') that prevents him from venturing outside in the daylight.   This disorder confines Snow to a nocturnal existance (described poetically  in several sections by Snow) and limits his contact with the 'normal'  people in his community.  However, if you read &quot;Midnight&quot;,  Koontz's 1980s novel, you know that very few people are 'normal' in  Moonlight Bay!  Snow's parents die separately but mysteriously, and when  Snow witnesses his father's body in the hospital&quot;s &quot;cold  room&quot; being replaced with that of a transient -- sans eyes and badly  beaten -- he knows something's terribly wrong.  What follows is a  fast-paced nighttime adventure that introduces the reader to Orson, Snow's  very intelligent dog (more intelligent than we think, due to some  'enhancement' done at a supposedly closed military base); Bobby, his  'surfer dude' friend who is so laid back that it takes the &quot;monkeys of  the apocalypse&quot; to worry him; and Sasha, Snow's girlfriend who is more  than she seems, especially when the aforementioned monkeys attack Bobby's  beachfront house at the end of the novel.  The only criticism I have is  that Koontz makes no mention of the previous events of his central coast  community -- some reference to the other biological experiments of  &quot;Midnight&quot; would have been nice.  &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; does  not go into the depth of the genetic research that &quot;Midnight&quot;  does, but makes up for it with a protagonist who is funny, intelligent,  poetic, and very human.  My suggestion for reading this novel is to do what  I did: read &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, then go straight into &quot;Seize the  Night&quot;, which takes place only a month after the events in &quot;Fear  Nothing&quot; conclude.  The stories make more sense, and frankly, could  have been combined into one novel.	2000-04-24
US	50336855	R18YISRT1CMIFQ	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Christopher Snow Returns	Although not as suspenseful as &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, &quot;Seize the Night&quot; is a good sequel which picks up where &quot;Fear Nothing&quot; left off, with the hero, Chris Snow, still trying to piece together the mystery of his parents' deaths.  This story focuses on the supposed  accident -- now suicide (or even murder) -- of Snow's mother, a theoretical  geneticist responsible for the &quot;monkeys of the apocalypse&quot;, Orson  (Snow's wonder dog), Mungojerrie (an 'enhanced' cat who takes center  stage), and the &quot;becoming&quot; of several of the townspeople of  Moonlight Bay, California.  The plot is as follows: a child of a former  lover of Snow, Lilly Wing, is abducted.  Snow vows to find him, and  restricted to nighttime searches because of his pigmentation disorder, he  and his friends Bobby, Sasha, and Roosevelt Frost (an &quot;animal  communicator&quot;) discover that the supposedly closed military base, Fort  Wyvern, not only dabbled in genetic experiementation, but time travel as  well.  The plot gets as murky as the night in places, and although the  children -- and Orson, who ends up kidnapped as well -- are safely  recovered, there are more questions than answers by the end of the book.   No doubt, Christopher Snow will return to explain all to us.  I will say  that the dangling plot lines are a nice change from the novels where all  questions are answered -- after all, none of our life experiences end, they  just evolve...or perhaps &quot;become&quot; something else entirely.	2000-04-24
US	50336855	R1YK4DYI28OA0B	0425151867	399944420	Acceptable Risk	Books	3	2	3	N	N	great mix of past and present	This is my favorite Robin Cook novel, mainly for the blending of science and history. Starting in the 1690s, with a twist on the cause of the Salem With Trials, it moves into the present with a comparable story of  scientists exploring a supposedly 'perfect' drug that could eliminate  depression.  Cook raises a great issue with the idea of a 'happy pill' that  negates the idea of personal self-examination -- just take the pill, and  all your problems are solved.  Of course, being a thriller, that doesn't  happen.  I found the characters to be more sympathetic and real than in  some of Cook's other work. I also liked the historical research of Kim into  her ancestor Elizabeth's trial and execution in the 1690s, and Kim's  discovery of the irrefutable 'evidence' of witchcraft used to convict  Elizabeth. I also enjoyed the suspense and the moral component at the end.	2000-03-20
US	50336855	RY57CSR94JIHH	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Excellent modern Dickensian novel	In &quot;The Cider House Rules&quot;, author John Irving weaves an engrossing and thought-provoking story of morality, choice, and responsibility. Using the story of orphan Homer Wells (a true  &quot;stranger in a  strange land&quot;) to illustrate personal choice  versus public responsibility (focused mostly on the issue of abortion),  Irving introduces us to complex, three dimensional characters whose choices  may not be the best, but are understandable and realistic.  Well-balanced  in the controversial areas, this is an uplifting novel that intertwines  Dickens, &quot;Jane Eyre&quot;, and medical terminology to illustrate the  impact one individual -- or in this case, two: Homer Wells and Dr. Larch --  can have on countless people.  I cried several times, because I came to  care for these characters, even if I didn't always agree with them.  The  use of real historical events only adds to the imaginary world that Irving  masterfully creates.  I highly recommend it!	2000-03-15
US	50336855	R285ORZQ93UA9A	0380728397	995875512	Don't Know Much About the Bible: Everything You Need to Know About the Good Book but Never Learned	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Good Introduction to the &quot;Good Book&quot;, But Falls Short	Although I thoroughly enjoy the &quot;Don't Know Much About...&quot; series by Kenneth Davis, his latest installment, &quot;DKMA the Bible&quot; falls short in its attempt to explain the historical aspect -- and in some cases contradictions -- of the most influential book in the world.  Davis  raises many good points, especially in the section on the Old Testament,  but fails to deliver on several occasions.  For example, he never really  discusses the extended lifespans of the Patriarchs, especially Methuselah;  nor does he explain the words &quot;Sheol&quot; and &quot;Gehenna&quot;,  two different words and concepts for hell; lastly, you would think that the  Psalm verse &quot;Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my  path&quot; would appear as one of the most famous quotes in the Psalms  section (not to mention appropriate to the book!).  The biggest disservice  is in the section on the book of Revelation -- it's glossed over so  quickly, you would think that Davis wishes to avoid any kind of controversy  regarding interpretation of this 'prophetic' book. Finally, he implies  answering questions that are sometimes never truly addressed.  However, I  would recommend this book to anyone wanting to explore the Bible; Davis'  historical contexts and breakdown of books like the four Gospels is  wonderful.  But don't expect miracles!	2000-03-12
US	50336855	R3PZ714L8OK8CF	0425113884	912542482	Mortal Fear	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Good moments, but predictable!	In this Robin Cook novel, the reader once again is  faced with a predictable plot, easy-to-spot villains, and a medical ethics message.  In this case, a widowed doctor and a part-time stripper (who of course is also  a ph.d candidate) team up to unravel a mystery surrounding patients who  were given a clean bill of health, yet soon after, prematurely age and die.   The one key is that the dead all had bad habits like smoking, yet in the  initial medical exam showed no signs of immediate physical collapse.  On a  coast-to-coast journey, our hero discovers that a dead colleague, in search  of youth, discovered death.  I will say that parts of the novel are  riveting, with some truly scary moments and a clever ending; unfortunately,  I picked out the villain immediately.  Maybe I've just been reading too  much Robin Cook lately!	2000-02-09
US	50336855	R1YG0L6OLEJMFD	042510687X	125165400	Outbreak	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Ebola strikes again!	In this latest version of Robin Cook's medical mystery world, a young female doctor, Marissa Blumenthal, uncovers a conspiracy to unleash the deadly ebola virus on US cities.  Marissa's work with the CDC takes her  first to LA, then several other cities across the country, where the virus  seemingly appears out of nowhere.  In tracking down the &quot;index  cases&quot; for each outbreak, she discovers an attempt to drive certain  hospitals out of business.  I really enjoyed this book the more I got into  it, although I wish that Robin Cook would do one story with a male or  female lead who is not a widow/er...a little redundant.  I did like the  fact that the female lead was smart and resourceful, and outwitted -- and  outran -- the bad guys.	2000-02-09
US	50336855	R1RVR9SH9QBSED	0312957572	531249329	The Seventh Scroll	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mr. and Ms. Indiana Jones in Ethiopia	An engaging adventure, &quot;The Seventh Scroll&quot;, although deritive of other works in this genre, is surprising enough to keep you hooked.  There's romance, action, and lots of people die...especially the bad guys  (very satisfying that is too).  The best part, to this reader's mind, was  the description of ancient engineering, and the idea that there are still  treasures out there waiting to be discovered.  The two protagonists, Royan  and Nicholas, are complicated and empathetic, and the surrounding  characters, both good and bad, stay in your mind long after the novel is  over.  A sequel of sorts to &quot;River God&quot;, this is a great page  turner and will entertain almost any reader.	2000-02-01
US	50336855	RJ4VVMX7OUAUB	0425118703	781279187	Midnight	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great Page Turner -- Couldn't Put It Down!	This was one of the most exciting books I've read in a long time!  From the characters to the idea of forced evolution -- great stuff.  I enjoyed the complex characters (even though how they all came together was a little  strained at times), the plot twists, and the idea that anyone could die --  or evolve/regress -- at any time.  What I especially thought riveting was,  at least in my mind, the idea that some characters regressed because they  simply didn't want any responsibilities anymore -- how much easier to  simply devolve into goo than deal with real life. One of the first books in  a while where I truly did not know where it was going to end, or if  everyone I cared about would make it.  Looking forward to reading the other  Moonlight Cove books!	2000-02-01
US	50336855	RTEPHNDKG65WP	0440225108	7077895	The Plague Tales	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Good paranoid blend of past and present	In Ann Benson's The Plague Tales, the reader is introduced to two timelines and two protagonists:  Janie Crow, a former surgeon from the near future, and Alejandro Canches-Hernandez, a Jewish doctor of the 14th  century.  The world in which both characters live is dominated by illness  and death.  For Janie, it's world trying to recover from the  &quot;Outbreaks&quot;, an undefined plague that wiped out most of the US,  including her family.  For Alejandro, it's the Bubonic Plague, which killed  almost half of Europe during the 1300s.  These two timelines intersect at  several points throughout the book, especially in the case of Caroline,  Janie's assistant, who seemingly dreams of the 14th century while suffering  from its scourge dug up in the early 21st century. Benson creates a  wonderful sense of suspense as the reader approaches the first third of the  book.  Although some of the plot points are obviously contrived, especially  in the modern timeline, by the middle of the story, the reader is taken in.   Benson paints an accurate picture of ancient and modern prejudice,  paranoia, and desperation, as the protagonists of both times race to save  their worlds and themselves.  A good read.	2000-01-04
