US	50332742	R30FVED9N6I0AP	0743446054	810150020	The Spy Who Loves Me	Books	4	2	3	N	N	THINK MAXWELL SMART AND AGENT 99 - FUN READ!	Remember Dragnet, Maxwell Smart, Agent 99, and the Super Heroes? Well, the unique blending of words and Julie Kenner's original sense of humor will bring them back to readers' memories during their sojourn through THE SPY WHO LOVES ME as her characters fight a greedy, sinister pair out to conquer the world. <br />  <br /> Phineus Teague graduated law school and thinks of himself as the next Perry Mason, stunning everyone with his genius in a courtroom. Instead, he spends endless hours in a tiny office doing research - where he continues to fantasize. Finn is a daydreamer and his fantasies outdo any published fictional tale. He can look at a pretty woman and off he goes into dreamland to experience a wild adventure, where he is the shining hero who saves the woman and the day. Oh well, back to real life where his boring job pays the rent and gives him a paycheck each week. One of these days, he's going to meet the woman of his daydreams and she will be much different than Amber Robinson, the dull looking neighbor who moved into his complex less than a week ago. Yeah, he's going after a sexy woman who loves adventure -inside the bedroom and out...Oh, sometimes men can be so blind! <br />  <br /> Amber Robinson is a knockout and a lady of adventure doesn't come close to describing her. She's a gun-toting agent with a camera hidden in her shoe  . Amber and her current sidekick Brandon Kline were rescued from a juvenile center by an organized government agency when Amber was only thirteen, and they've both climbed to special agent status and now work for the best unit in the Providence organization. Unit 7 is Amber's life and family and nothing or nor one will change that.  <br />  <br /> Unit 7 commissioned a top-secret space-based weapon system, and before the system is completed it self destructs, which means someone found the access code and breached security. The Unit learns Diana Traynor, who they knew was already friendly with a former Navy SEAL gone bad, has alsobefriended a programmer working for the same defense contractor that is building their system. Amber's orders are to keep an eye on Diana. <br />  <br /> From this point on - Julie Kenner's unlimited imagination takes over to develop a novel filled with unusual twists and turns. There is no doubt she will hold your interest and give you chuckles while she reveals her story. Along the way she builds a hot romance to challenge Amber and Finn, and builds on the excitement, suspense and adventure created by the evildoers. Different from her Aphrodite series, yet still in the same flavor of do-right heroes, THE SPY WHO LOVES ME will thoroughly delight readers who enjoy a diversion from real life as they flip through these pages for a light, fun read. <br />  <br /> Carol Carter <br />  <br />	2004-07-27
US	50332742	RPM8KAKZFR9MY	0425197107	751998350	On the Line (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	EXCELLENT WRITING - MORE THAN A ROMANCE	<br />Noah Callahan climbed through the firefighter's ranks, and now the forty-seven year old widower is the Chief of Hidden Cove's fire department. He's gained and earned both love and respect from everyone, and especially from those who work under his command. But all is not well for Noah. He's in total shock when the mayor phones to advise him the Office of Fire Prevention and Control (OFPC) is sending an investigator to look into the many fires and failures that have recently occurred in his area. Noah can't believe he's under suspicion of wrong doing; firefighting is the love of his life! Yet another shock awaits him when he meets the OFPC official -- Eve Woodward, an attractive, but powerful looking woman. <br /> <br />Eve Woodward is also a former firefighter who gained her position by working from the ground up. Being a woman firefighter is an uphill battle every step of the way, fighting to gain acceptance into an occupation still believed to be a man's world, where not many men are willing to share their good ole boys' last stronghold with women. Eve is one of the strong ones though, and has truly earned her stripes, even though some jealous colleagues started rumors she got where she is by sleeping with her boss. Her work in Hidden Cove isn't an easy one. She learns Noah Callahan is a good man, deserving of the respect shown him, and proving his guilt isn't going to make for happy times for anyone in the town. <br /> <br />The quality of Kathryn Shay's writing is nothing less than excellent, and there is pure magic in her pen. I haven't YET had the opportunity to read the first story in this series, AFTER THE FIRE, but you can be sure I've already got it on order! ON THE LINE is a magnificent look into the lives of real, down-to-earth firefighters and the struggles they endure every day. Ms. Shay's talent takes you inside her characters to bring them so to life that you think and feel with them. Readers experience heartaches and hardships with them, sometimes with tears flowing, as they go through traumatic times and memories.  <br /> <br />ON THE LINE brings reminders of the Oklahoma City bombing, the 9/11 tragedies, and Viet Nam, as survivors struggle with the aftermath of being there. It's a story of healing recurring nightmares and learning to forgive yourself and others through group sharing sessions. It also deals with hidden problems young children have by giving them an opportunity to express anger and share losses of their loved ones during days at a camp built by both firefighters and policemen. The idea for this camp originated in AFTER THE FIRE and continues to completion in ON THE LINE. Finally, this novel shares more than one story of romance and love. Their roads aren't easy, and the couples have much adversity to overcome, but ohhh, the story is wonderful, as Kathryn Shay sends readers through the pages to the beautiful ending we expect from a romance story. <br />Once again I'm compelled to reward this author with A PERFECT TEN, an award given only to those novels we consider excellent, and well above average. I strongly urge you to buy this book, as well as the first one in the series. <br /> <br />Carol Carter, Reviewer- As Posted on Romance Reviews Today <br />	2004-07-27
US	50332742	R3EW09W01G7BGM	0345463927	442557067	Dead Wrong	Books	5	6	6	N	N	CHILLING THRILLER WITH ROMANCE A PLUS	<br />On a cold morning in February three men waiting their turn to appear before a criminal court judge find themselves locked down in one room while every lawman in the vicinity searches for a fourth convict, who has escaped. As time passes, the men discuss why they are there. Channing claims he's been mistaken for another C.A.Channing and will be released; Lowell was arrested for stalking; and Giordano is appealing his sentence for killing his wife and children because the detective lied in court. To while away the time, these three violent men play a 'pretend' game, naming three people they would like to kill if they knew they wouldn't be caught. Channing is released and Giordano and Lowell return to jail to wait for their time in court. <br /> <br />The suspense in DEAD WRONG is not who-done-it; since readers have a prologue that sets up the story, an advantage our leading characters do not have. The mystery of why women named Mary Douglas are being murdered baffles law enforcement and profilers are called in to help solve the case. When the third woman named Mary Douglas falls victim to another heinous crime, detectives deduce they are being killed in the order they appear in the phone book; M. J. Douglas is next on the list. Her sister Annie McCall, an FBI agent, and colleague Miranda Cahill (fans will remember her from a previous story) warn Mara to take extra precautions as they believe she is the next victim. Annie doesn't stop with the warning; she calls in a favor from another agent who is on medical leave. <br /> <br />Aiden Shields and his brother Dylan were undercover agents setting up a big drug sting that turned bad, leaving Dylan dead and Aiden badly wounded. He hasn't recovered from the shooting or the psychological wounds and feels guilty for not saving his brother. He's on leave from the FBI and doesn't believe he will ever be able to pass a physical exam to return to the force in any capacity. He's at about the lowest a man can be when Annie tells him she needs him to guard and protect her sister. Annie was Dylan's girlfriend and Aiden can't refuse her anything, so reluctantly he packs up his bag and heads for the Douglas home, where he is anything but welcomed by Mara Douglas. <br /> <br />DEAD WRONG is the first in a trilogy and a thriller to hold you entranced - if that is even the right word for what you will be as you read this one. In my lifetime of reading, there is only one other book I've turned from the back page to the front to completely re-read, as I have done with this suspenseful story. Mariah Stewart captures readers immediately, bringing a bizarre mystery to the pages. You'll know who, but not what, when, nor where! Clues will be dropped and twists and turns will develop. As readers, you'll want to chew your fingernails waiting for this killer to be caught.  <br /> <br />The family thread is once again evident in Ms. Stewart's writing through her strong characters, as well as old friendships being renewed when her former characters return to help solve this case. Though this novel is listed as suspense, readers will be treated to a rich romance as well. And, the conclusion gives readers a strong hint as to the killer in the second story. I must honestly tell you my favorite reading genre is romance, but I wouldn't miss one of Mariah Stewart's stories for anything. This author has a true talent for writing the best stories I've had the pleasure of reading, and DEAD WRONG is no exception. This one garners a Perfect 10, a rating only given to works Romance Reviews Today reviewers consider to be exceptional reads. Stories like this will have Mariah Stewart soaring on the Best Seller's Lists. <br /> <br />Carol Carter, Reviewer-As posted at Romance Reviews Today <br />	2004-07-26
US	50332742	R1MDOAQ1P42W0Z	0345463935	309433810	Dead Certain	Books	5	6	9	N	N	WHAT MAKES A SERIAL KILLER'S MIND TICK?	Following right behind the June release of DEAD WRONG, the first story in Mariah Stewart's trilogy, is DEAD CERTAIN. As in DEAD WRONG, the story begins with a prologue where three prisoners, Channing, Guiordano, and Archer, await their turn before a judge. They are leg shackled and handcuffed to metal chairs and placed in a room together while the courthouse is in lockdown as the deputies search for a fourth prisoner who has escaped. During the prologue, the premise for the trilogy unfolds as these three prisoners make up a deadly game of what could be done if they knew they would not get caught. Though this prologue is the same tale as the one in DEAD WRONG, Ms. Stewart displays a unique talent for delivering it this go round through the thoughts and personality of another killer, Vincent Giordano, making it fresh again.<br /><br /> Vince Giordano is a violent man who killed his wife and children and is released from prison due to technicalities. Giordano's lawyers were able to prove the cop who testified and provided the evidence against him lied, allowing Vince to walk away from the horrible crimes he committed. He's free now and ready to repay a promise - to kill three people on Archer's hit list. Archer is the one who actually thought up 'the game,' and Guiordano is responsible for wiping out those on Archer's list. Since Channing took care of Vince's hit list, Guiordano feels obligated to fulfill his part of the 'game'. Amanda Crosby is the woman responsible for Archer's jail time. She put him away for stalking her. In Archer's delusional mind, he doesn't believe he stalked her; he thought she loved him.. Archer wants Amanda to be paid back for ruining his life.<br /><br /> Amanda Crosby and Derek England are partners in an antique business. Derek is not the normal antique dealer and is quite a flighty, impulsive person, a fact that has him in deep trouble with Amanda. She's learned the outrageously expensive find he just purchased is illegal and the prohibitive cost could ruin their reputation as well as bankrupt the firm. In a fit of frustration and anger, Amanda makes the statement she could 'just kill him,' a threat that is enough to cause the police to suspect her of murder.<br /><br /> Mariah Stewart slowly unravels another mystery and gives insight into a killer's motive and thoughts, horrible as they are. Some characters are revisited in DEAD CERTAIN, and the series shows even more of their personalities. While I didn't find this second story to be as intense as the first, it's still a very well written mystery and fans will be reading at a fast rate to uncover the murders, waiting for the moment when another killer is captured. A question in my mind, though, was about story number three. We've learned how irresponsible and delusional Archer is, and he is the third man, holding Curtis Channing's hit list. Will he follow through with his part in this evil game? Hmmmm.... There's a neat little twist at the end of DEAD CERTAIN that shows Mariah has wondered about this, too  ... Guess we'll just have to wait until DEAD EVEN hits the shelves in August to find out. Meanwhile, get a little closer to these criminal minds, as well as the white-hat characters who play leading roles in the stories, by picking up DEAD CERTAIN for a thrilling experience and a night with a good mystery.<br /><br /> Carol Carter, Reviewer-As Posted at Romance Reviews Todayohibitive cost could ruin their reputation as well as bankrupt the firm. In a fit of frustration and anger, Amanda makes the statement she could 'just kill him,' a threat that is enough to cause the police to suspect her of murder. <br />  <br /> Mariah Stewart slowly unravels another mystery and gives insight into a killer's motive and thoughts, horrible as they are. Some characters are revisited in DEAD CERTAIN, and the series shows even more of their personalities. While I didn't find this second story to be as intense as the first, it's still a very well written mystery and fans will be reading at a fast rate to uncover the murders, waiting for the moment when another killer is captured. A question in my mind, though, was about story number three. We've learned how irresponsible and delusional Archer is, and he is the third man, holding Curtis Channing's hit list. Will he follow through with his part in this evil game? Hmmmm.... There's a neat little twist at the end of DEAD CERTAIN that shows Mariah has wondered about this, too  ... Guess we'll just have to wait until DEAD EVEN hits the shelves in August to find out. Meanwhile, get a little closer to these criminal minds, as well as the white-hat characters who play leading roles in the stories, by picking up DEAD CERTAIN for a thrilling experience and a night with a good mystery. <br /> Carol Carter, Reviewer-As Posted at Romance Reviews Today <br />  <br />  <br />	2004-07-26
US	50332742	RIPU71JQT9PE4	0425195244	461037618	Beauty Queen (Lear Family Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Smashing Success!	<br />Rebecca Lear reads every self-help book published trying to find her inner self, and ends up on an adventure that leaves her dirty and sweaty as she tries to conquer a mountaintop in Colorado seeking The Vision. The trek has her swearing and crying, but she finds the determination to make it over the top ? even if she is the last in the group to do it ? and the cheering of her fellow climbers makes the former beauty queen believe she can do anything, whether her father or ex husband believe it or not. <br /> <br />Becky is closed to losing her newfound confidence when she begins filling out applications and going on interviews. Seems she has no experience and is not qualified for any position. In desperation, she asks her father to make a connection for her. He?s a powerful figure in Texas, and though he could, he refuses to help her get a foot in any door. He has other ideas for her, but he and her ex-husband have been telling her what to do and when to do all her life, and she?s tired of it! <br /> <br />Her newly found confidence is nearly gone when Becky runs into Tom Masters, a Texas senator. Tom is running for Lieutenant Governor and Becky is speechless when he asks her to accept the position of campaign strategist. An honest to goodness, real live job! Becky has no earthly idea what she?s getting into, but there?s no way in this lifetime she?s refusing this offer. After she meets Matt Parish she may wish she hadn?t accepted; he isn?t going to make life easy for her. <br /> <br />Matt Parrish is a young, hot-shot lawyer on the rise and when Tom Masters and his party wave the flag of future District Attorney at him, his pride swells a little more and he jumps at the chance to run Tom?s campaign. Little does he know Miss Beauty Queen was given a lead job. Well?. you get the idea?. Tom is left brained and Rebecca is all right brained ? oil and water ? they don?t mix well and are constantly opposing each other. What an event this will turn into. <br /> <br/>BEAUTY QUEEN is a showcase for the new voice of Julia London. Second in the Lear trilogy, Rebecca?s story flows through the pages. Julia London?s descriptions and words bring the characters to life, allowing readers to get inside and know their moves and thoughts. Ms. London reveals the challenges Rebecca faces after being coddled and treated like a woman with a beautiful figure and no brains. She?s just gone through a divorce and must find a way to support her little boy. Her true character comes through and it?s a story of struggles and triumphs. Tom Masters is taught a few lessons and the macho man is brought down a peg or two to the enjoyment of readers. He finds qualities and fun in places he didn?t know about, and a little boy and a beauty queen have him thinking differently than he ever has. <br /> <br />BEAUTY QUEEN is a very well developed story, filled with realism and lessons of life; it?s funny and serious and Julia London?s voice shines brightly in this novel. I now anxiously await the story of the third sister and can?t wait to see what happens between the Lear parents, who have their own problems. I highly suggest Julia London?s contemporary voice to her fans, and give BEAUTY QUEEN the highest marks, for an exceptional read. <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-07-23
US	50332742	R3MZ4DHUM9KXET	0843950501	848324717	Dark Destiny (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 11)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	AN AMAZING LOVE STORY OF REDEMPTION AND TRUST	To preface my review, I'd like to ask readers - Do you know that one out of three women have suffered some form of abuse - either mentally or physically sometime in their life, many as children? And the memory and guilt they carry lasts a lifetime? <br />I ask this question because if you know this little known fact, it will help you understand the issue of trust in DARK DESTINY. <br />I've read some of the reviews where they felt Destiny was whiny and Nicolae was wimpy. My opinion is so different that I needed to write a review to express my thoughts. <br /> <br />Can you imagine the torture this little girl went through from the time she was only six years old? First seeing her parents brutally murdered by a vampire, then 'USED' for his pleasure through horrible, obscene ways to this tiny little girl until she was old enough to escape him? Could she EVER rid herself of feeling unclean? Or, feel she was beautiful ever again after being so horribly violated for so long? In my opinion she was a super woman of incredible strength and fortitude to continue even wanting to live, let alone protect others from the evil ones. <br /> <br />And, Nicolae - In my opinion, he's the strongest Carpathian alive holding back his own desires because of his deep love for his lifemate - waiting for her to trust enough - going so far as to risk his very life because she meant that much to him. I wonder how many know a man such as he - to do anything and everything for love. For me, he shows compassion, patience, and the strongest love for Destiny, and he is a total opposite of a weak man - showing great strength in subtle ways as well as physically. It takes more to hold back than to take what you want... <br /> <br />The secondary characters in DARK DESTINY made for a beautiful neighborhood. The sometimes looney sisters who loved and cared for their neighbors, worrying when things weren't 'right'. And Mary Anne, the compassionate neighbor with unconditional love for everyone around her, wanting only to help battered, abused women find a way again. <br /> <br />I'll stop here, but there's more to this story than first appears. There's romance, sensuality, action, adventure, and suspense. And it's one story you really don't want to miss reading! <br /> <br />Carol Carter <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-07-23
US	50332742	R1BKS7STZPL2XZ	0451209885	42453844	Rose (Flower Trilogy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Perfect Story to End the Flower Trilogy	If you've been following Lauren Royal's trilogy, you'll remember Rose from the previous stories (VIOLET and LILY). Even if you haven't read the previous tales, get ready for a rip-roaring tale of one of the quirkiest families you've ever enjoyed, the Ashcrofts. ROSE opens with Lily's wedding to Rand, the man Rose did her best to catch, but failed. Rose wanted to be the next sister to marry, not her younger sister Lily. All the sisters really care for each other though, and Rose consoles herself with the knowledge that Lily and Rand are a perfect match and belong together.  Rose is twenty-one and determined to catch a handsome, rich, powerful, titled gentleman - one who will treat her as if she were a queen, and anyone fitting these requirements will do. Oh, they all think she's a beauty, but they resent her intelligence! Rose doesn't know it, but she's already caught someone's admiring eyes - one who does enjoy her intelligent conversations and carefree way of talking. But he isn't titled - yet! <br />Christopher Martyn, known to his friends as Kit, is a good friend of Rand's, and is also<BR>attending the wedding. He looks at Rose like he could eat her up, but since he's just an architect and not titled, Rose isn't interested. Kit is a protégé of Christopher Wren, the famous architect, and has been working on several projects for none other than King Charles, but having no title, Rose is not impressed. She WILL be a countess, a duchess, a baroness, or some titled woman. Kit hopes that when his projects at the palace are completed, the king will award him the position of Deputy Surveyor, the first step to possibly becoming knighted, and worthy of courting Rose.<br />While the romance and troubles of Rose and Kit is the main plot, Lauren Royal spins several sub plots as well: There are other romances taking place, one with Kit's sister to a `commoner' that causes him no little grief; a little suspense in the `accidents' that constantly plague Kit's projects; and themachinations of Chrystabel Ashcroft, Mother of Violet, Lily, and Rose. Chrystabel is one of the quirkiest mothers you'll find, one who constantly puzzles Christopher Martyn with her outrageous suggestions as she plays secret matchmaker between him and her daughter. All of these plots add up to make ROSE a delightful read. Violet and Ford Chase (from Ms. Royal's previous trilogy (AMETHYST, EMERALD, and AMBER) and Lily and Rand play small roles as they visit, and other secondary players help make ROSE a most enjoyable tale.<br />Lauren Royal pens detailed descriptions of the life and style of the restoration era, as well<BR>as describing the architecture of the times in detail in ROSE. There is very little in the<BR>way of political intrigue, but much of the scandalous life in King Charles's court. The<BR>character of Rose does a turnabout as Rose comes to learn there is no recipe for love.<BR>Rose is herself a real character and a little scandalous herself as she goes on a kissing quest, something she's heard many rave about, but an activity she's never herself<BR>enjoyed - yet! One Christopher Martyn will soon make her swoon - Darn! Too bad<BR>he isn't a titled gentleman! Oh well...this is a romance, and Ms. Royal will have her<BR>way &lt;grin&gt; as she teaches Rose a few lessons of life.<br />Be good to yourself and take this title home as soon as it hits the shelves. You will get many hours of pleasure and want to finish the read in one sitting. It may even keep you up into the wee hours when you can't put it down. ROSE is the perfect story to wind up this `flower' trilogy. I thoroughly enjoyed it and believe you will, too.<br />Carol Carter - as posted on Romance Reviews Today	2003-10-28
US	50332742	R2ML8CLE4TK998	0373441754	130604601	Staying Single	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Revenge Can Be Sweet	Francie Morelli just could not make that walk down the aisle so she left the groom standing at the alter - and he's the third man she's done this to. It's just a coincidence, but it seems she has a problem with guys whose names begin with the letter `M', the latest being Matt Carlson. The poor grooms have all loved Francie and were humiliated and hurt, Matt maybe even more than the others.<br />Matt's brother Mark (another `M' name) is really angry and plots revenge. He was Matt's best man and late to the `almost' wedding and hasn't met Francie, but he's going to stick around, seduce her and make her fall in love with him. Then he's going to drop her at the aisle to give her a taste of what she's been dishing out to these poor guys.<BR>He's going to teach her a lesson alright - HA! He hasn't met her yet and has no idea<BR>who he's dealing with <grin>. <br />I found Francie Morelli a little too much on the `flaky' side to be realistic, but maybe<BR>it's my background and environment talking. She's gorgeous, sexy, and passionate<BR>and is so sweet she draws Mark to her like a bee to honey.  True, her Italian mamma<BR>is a steamroller who has weddings planned before Francie even meets the prospective<BR>groom and she doesn't hear Francie saying No, No, No! I think after two trips to the altar though Francie could have asked her mamma what part of No she doesn't understand and refused to take the walk a third time. After this third time she vows never again - She is staying single!! What is it they say about never say never? Hmmm ... Francie will soon find out.<br />Mark Carlson is a great leading character; smart, handsome, great sense of humor, loyal to his family, loving, and rich. Secondary players introduced are not what you call your<BR>everyday folks and are on the outrageous side, all of which make STAYING SINGLE a fun, sensuous read that will bring chuckles throughout the story. It will remind Ms. Criswell's fans of her `Little Italy' series with the dialogueand culture. It's a great debut to introduce Harlequin's new line called Flipside, which is replacing the current Duet line. Watch for it this month and take it home for a fun time.<br />Carol Carter - As posted at Romance Reviews Today	2003-10-28
US	50332742	R1LY8WWRAYHV3Y	0373791097	975753509	Night Fever: Kiss & Tell (Harlequin Blaze, 105)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Blazing Romance With Hidden Values	Layla Hollister is sitting in the bar of a restaurant as she waits to have dinner<BR>with her three best friends. She drops what she's reading and her interest peaks when a drop-dead gorgeous man asks if the empty stool beside her is taken. Sexual sparks begin<BR>to fly as they are instantly attracted to each other. He thinks the elegant woman <BR>with the sultry voice and long legs just has to be a model. They strike up a<BR>conversation and Sam hits a `hot button' when he asks this natural beauty <br />`who did her nose'. It isn't an unusual question in this town of L.A., but an insecure Layla doesn't appreciate the comment-like question. She's in a bad mood anyway;<BR>she's a general practitioner at the Medical Center and has a new boss she's<BR>she dislikes, even though she's never met him. His reputation as a womanizer precedes<BR>him. Well.....guess who this handsome hunk is?  Uh-huh! The famous - or<BR>infamous, depending on what you know about him - Sam Lovejoy, one of<BR>the best cosmetic, reconstructive surgeons anywhere, and the new senior staff<BR>administrator of the Medical Center. <br />Sam is definitely interested in this sexy number sitting beside him, and lady killer that he is, he isn't going to pass up the opportunity to get to know her tonight, even if<BR>she hates him tomorrow, so he skates around his name, rank, and serial<BR>number. He does get the opportunity to satisfy his curiosity to see if she<BR>tastes as good as she looks, and drools when she does. Ah, but just at that moment, her cell phone rings and she's off to answer an emergency call. Sam has a feeling he may have seen the last of her beautiful smile since Layla Hollister just happens to be the first appointment on his agenda to meet the staff tomorrow morning.<br />The Carrington duo heat the pages with the electricity and passion flowing between<BR>Layla and Sam. But more than that, they delve into Layla's past to show where and<BR>why she has so many insecurities to cause her reactions as an adult, and they allow Sam<BR>to point this out to Layla. Layla gets her turn to teach Sam a few lessons about love and<BR>judgments, too. It's a gift or a talent, but by whatever name you choose, don't miss<BR>the values, morals and relationships the Carringtons have written into this sensual offering as they deepen the story and fulfill fantasies. NIGHT FEVER is the first<BR>in a mini series featuring four close friends. After reading this one, be sure to watch for Harlequin Blaze #109, FLAVOR OF THE MONTH, Reilly's story to be released<BR>in November. <br />Carol Carter - As written for Romance Reviews Today	2003-10-28
US	50332742	RIL72NAQVIBIR	0515135968	211913229	Shadow Game (GhostWalkers, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Romantic Suspense	Captain Ryland Miller leads a group of men, some military, others from various<BR>Careers, but all are fierce, intelligent men. They were selected from a group of volunteers with extraordinary psychic abilities to participate in a military project headed by Colonel Higgens, led by scientist Peter Whitney. As the project progresses, the men begin to<BR>have severe migraines caused by an overload to the brain as they are assaulted by enhanced emotions, voices, sounds, and noises. Ryland feels guilty for bringing his men<BR>into this project and becomes more than their leader; he is their anchor forcing excess<BR>energy that causes extreme pain from his men to himself. <br />When some of the men mysteriously disappear, Ryland begins to hate Higgens and Whitney. As their power increases, Higgens feels threatened and demands Peter isolate the men and put them in separate cages. Now they feel like laboratory rats being studied and their hatred builds<BR>against Peter and the colonel they feel betrayed them. They secretly begin to telepathically<BR>plan to escape from the lab.<br />Before they can escape, Peter and Higgens are joined by a woman so beautiful she takes<BR>Ryland's breath away. And, somehow she acts like a magnet to relieve Ryland of his pain<BR>by removing the assault of emotions and noise from him. Ryland is wary when she is introduced as Lily Whitney, Peter's daughter, but he senses a soul connection and believes she feels it, too. Furthermore, he senses emotions of guilt coming from Peter as he argues the need to reverse the processes with Higgens since the experiment isn't working as planned. Higgens adamantly refuses and Peter becomes suspicious of his motives. <br />Peter Whitney is missing and Lily's extraordinary psychic abilities show her he's been<BR>murdered and thrown into the sea. Inconsolable, she works her way through her father's<BR>notes and finds one to shock her even more. He left a message telling her of his suspicions, and asks her takeover the project to find a reversal to help the men in the laboratory. Even more, he gives her information she never wanted to hear in her lifetime, information that could come close to destroying her. Ryland is inside her head and feels her pain and all he can think of is holding her to comfort and protect her.<br />The story that follows is different from previous dark Carpathian novels, but these men would make wonderful characters of that race. They are definitely alpha men, forceful, dominant and macho, Ryland having the strongest of these traits in this tale. Christine Feehan matches him with an alpha woman, as Lily has the same tendencies, making for a sizzling romantic novel, especially so since Ryland and Lily read each other and can live out each other's fantasies. Whew! Be sure to have a fan handy for this read &lt;grin&gt;.<br />The medical knowledge and explanations went over my head at times because it is so<BR>finely detailed, telling this reviewer how well the facts were researched. Ms. Feehan brings in a great cast of characters in addition to the lead couple, and I can see the opportunity for future stories to develop. As always, there is a very strong thread of family running through this tale, though it's threaded differently in this story, and Lily must deal with information she learns about her past. Ryland will be there with his unconditional love to help her conquer her pain. SHADOW GAME is unique as the multiple plots unravel, and is sure to give readers several hours<BR>of enjoyment and satisfaction. I'm thrilled to see Christine Feehan branch out from her<BR>beloved Carpathian stories to offer a full length novel about the Ghost Walkers (so called because of their skills to invisibly blend into the shadows), and I sure hope there will be more to<BR>follow this one. Readers and long-time fans will not want to miss this highly charged romantic suspense.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer (As published on Romance Reviews Today)	2003-10-03
US	50332742	R2GRTNYWQGG140	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Great Mysterious Regency Read	THE SEDUCER is a novel filled with secrets: secrets Madeline Hunter slowly reveals<BR>throughout her story, and secrets that will keep readers wanting to learn who, what,<BR>where, and why. <br />To begin the little mystery, we are introduced to Diane Albret. She was brought to a school for young ladies, a school that harbored cruelty at times. Tuition and funds were<BR>paid by Daniel St. John, who made yearly visits but never became personally involved. Many years earlier he had forbidden the cruel whippings and left orders that she was not to be whipped again. Daniel has not paid attention to the years that passed until he is<BR>requested to appear at the school where Diane is still treated as a child. The lonely<BR>girl has no place to go, so in order to stay in school, she's pretended to be sixteen for the<BR>past four years. But she is in trouble now! She's been accused of stealing an erotic book, which she has, for reasons of her own, and she's due for a whipping. Since Daniel has forbidden this form of punishment, the head mistress wants him present so Diane knows he agrees with the whipping. However, when Diane's bottom is bared, Daniel realizes she is not a sixteen year old and he coerces her into admitting she is actually<BR>twenty and is making plans to leave to become a governess. She wants to go<BR>to England and try to find someone who is `family'. She knows nothing about her<BR>past, as any memories she had faded with the years. Here readers know something<BR>is in Daniel's past that connects him to Diane and he doesn't want her digging to find<BR>family connections.<br />The next clue in this mysterious story appears when we meet his invalid sister Jeanette, a<BR>beautiful woman who rarely leaves her rooms. She is to take Diane under her wing and <BR>teach her to be a lady. Through dialog between Jeanette and Daniel we learn a little more,<BR>but along with the facts we find more secrets. Why is Jeanette an invalid? Why is she so<BR>bitter? and Why does she fear leaving the house? One thing Jeanette still has and uses is<BR>her mind and her eyes, and the sparks that her brother sends to the innocent young woman<BR>he's asked her to care for aren't missed.<br />Gustave Dupre' and his new secretary Adrian Burchard enter the story and bring even more mystery to the plot. Readers quickly learn Gustave isn't a true friend, but how does<BR>he fit into the plot? Further characters are introduced to enhance the tale and keep readers wanting to solve the mystery and watch the attraction between Diane and Daniel grow.<BR>How long is this renowned seducer going to be able to stay away from Diane as she<BR>blossoms into a beautiful woman? It's a delight to watch her mature and watch Daniel's<BR>reactions towards her.<br />Madeline Hunter introduces the first story of three dark, brooding men women love to<BR>fall in love with. Following THE SEDUCER will be THE SAINT (featuring Vergil Duclaire) and THE CHARMER (Adrian Burchard's story). Both Vergil and Adrian<BR>are part of the plot in THE SEDUCER, a title filled with action, mystery, and sensuality. I recommend you look for it early to be sure to get a personal copy that will give you<BR>hours of an exciting reading experience.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer as posted on Romance Reviews Today	2003-10-03
US	50332742	R2EX2XQ39A8HWF	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Beautiful Mix of Gothic, Paranormal, Fantasy and Suspense!	DARK SYMPHONY, set in the Scarletti Palace where winged gargoyles guard and secret passageways abound, is a wonderful blending of gothic and paranormal genres. Antonietta Scarletti is an accomplished world-renowned classical pianist  and she is blind. This doesnt hinder her abilities to run the large Scarletti empire, though her grandfather, Don Giovanni Scarletti, now frail of body at eighty-two, is still the respected head of the empire. Events unfold that shake everyone living and working in the palazzo, and the man who keeps watch over the keep is none other than Byron Justicano.<br />Byron, the former fun loving, reckless and cocky Carpathian is no more. Hes now a lonely wounded soul who roams far from his homeland, unable to face his family after falling into a trap that resulted in grievous harm to those close to him. He cannot forgive himself and attempts to find restoration by hunting vampires. The passion for power he constantly fights is bringing him closer to madness with each kill until he hears music that mesmerizes him. He tracks the source to the Scarletti Palazzo in Italy where he finds much more than the music. Antonietta Scarlettis velvet voice lights his world with vivid colors and he knows shes his salvation, his lifemate. <br />Drugged and struggling after she and her grandfather are dragged to the edge of the cliffs in an attempt to kill them, the unseeing Antonietta silently calls to Byron. She senses hes a predator, but she doesnt care; she has her own secrets with her Scarletti bloodline. She fantasizes he is her dark prince, a fantasy truer than she knows. Byron can hear her thoughts and when Antonietta screams his name out loud he fears he wont get to her in time. This begins a series of events that will keep Byron as close as glue. He presents her with a Borzoi, a most unusual breed of dog that is telepathic and will stay close to protect and guide her during the daytime when he cannot be with her.<br />Byron is aCarpathian youll absolutely love. Hes learned not to jump to conclusions, but watch and wait. Hes patient with Antonietta and grants her the final decision on converting (involving intensive and painful body changes to become a Carpathian). He is so thankful to find his own true lifemate that hes tender, considerate and romantic, attempting to court her the human way. He cant begin to express just how much he loves her, and Antoniettas acceptance of him and his differences amazes him. Antonietta is his true lifemate in every way. She is a woman of great strength and determination, is telepathic and sensitive to his needs. And because Byron gives her so much freedom of choice, shes willing to listen when he issues a command. They are perfect for each other with their wild animal instincts and their passion could light up the heavens.<br />Christine Feehan has magic in her voice and DARK SYMPHONY brings her personality alive to her readers. There is mischief and much humor when Byrons sister Evelyn appears with her husband Vlad and their son Josef, and a strong thread of familial love. The teenage Carpathian is about to drive Byron crazy with his rap music and untried skills, much to the amusement and silent laughter of Antonietta and the enjoyment of readers. Much of the Carpathian history and legend is learned in this story, and many of the characters from former novels appear.<br />Just as a composer takes music notes and instruments to put together a beautiful arrangement, so has Christine Feehan blended the elements of fiction to create a masterpiece. DARK SYMPHONY touches your emotions, mixing in gothic, contemporary, historical, fantasy, paranormal, sensuality, romance, and mystery. Youll find murder and suspense as someone is out to kill off the Scarletti family, and a superb job of writing plants suspicions on every one of the characters to keep you wondering who the killer is. DARK SYMPHONY will surely hit the bestseller lists when it is released and prove why Ms. Feehan has risen to the top so quickly. I congratulate her in advance for what I consider another winner. They just dont get any better. This title will jump off of the store shelves so fast that I would suggest you pre-order to be sure you have a copy as soon its released. <br />Carol Carter, As Posted at Romance Reviews Today	2003-03-11
US	50332742	R3TM0M8IBTB8J0	0515133620	346308894	Tapestry	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Four different tapestries woven by masters of romance!	Lynn Kurland - TO KISS IN THE SHADOWS<BR>Lianna of Grasleigh is a ward of King Henry brought to his court when her family was slain. Until Henry gives her away in marriage, she hides in the shadows to avoid being taunted and treated cruelly because of her ugly visage. The envious, malicious women in the queen's solar treat her even worse when Kendrick of Artane, the most sought after knight of the realm, befriends her. His brother Jason who carries a message from their father follows Kendrick, and Jason also sees Lianna's inner beauty, rather than her outer countenance. Though Jason is even more comely than his brother, he was squire to a known warlock, thus everyone believes he's practiced the dark arts and fears him. - Everyone except Lianna. Lynn Kurland's story that follows is one for Lianna to weave into a tapestry as romance unfolds between two most unlikely people. It's refreshing to read a story about an imperfect woman and man of maligned reputation. And it's fun to read of siblings who love each other deeply, yet have the most unusual way of showing that love.<br />AN INTERRUPTED TAPESTRY - Madeline Hunter<BR>An old friendship promises to develop into much more when the lovely Giselle must seek out the only person who can help her brother: Andreas, a wealthy merchant shipper who was at one time her brother's best friend. Giselle is still an innocent who believes in her brother Reginald's schemes to strike it rich and regain their noble title and lands. Andreas is in London to sign a contract to wed the daughter of a wealthy Italian merchant shipper, a merger that will make the two families the most powerful merchants in the world. Giselle must come to realize truths about her brother, and Andreas must decide whether love or wealth and power are most important. Ms. Hunter leaves them with a new tapestry to weave to replace the treasured family tapestry now lost to Giselle.<br />DRAGONSWAN - Sherrilyn Kenyon<BR>Prepare yourself for a sizzling, sensual time-travel when the immortal Sebastian meets Channon in a museum as she studies a famous Dragon tapestry. The gorgeous six foot five hunk of the Drakos race doesn't know it, but fate has chosen her to be his mate. Sexual tension heats up the instant their eyes meet, and when she sleepily agrees to travel home with him; Channon has no idea what/when/ or where she is going to end up. I won't spoil the story for you, but I will give you a teaser. Sebastian comes from a race that can weave magic spells, and his human form transforms into a dragon by electrical impulse. His powers are enhanced through sexual contact, and the passion he and Channon share give him awesome power to last two full days. This one is a scorcher that will have you flying through the pages.<br />INTO THE DREAMING - Karen Marie Moning<BR>Venture into the land of the fairies, where good will battle evil. Aidan McKinnon was tricked in the tenth century by an evil fairy king, and has been held a prisoner in an icy world for five hundred years. He's lost his hold on sanity and is as cold as the ice that has preserved him. Aidan is in total dominance to the fairy, kept in his control by evil spells. He's become an evil, brutal killing machine known as Vengeance, marauding at the whim of the evil fairy. There is nothing but a shell left of the old Aidan McKinnon; in fact he remembers nothing, not even his name.<br />In the warm realm of light, the fairy queen knows all about her counterparts plans and decides to cast a few spells of her own. She able to reach Aidan through dreams and weaves a beautiful tapestry in poem and song, sending the dreaming spell to Aidan and his true mate - a little girl living in the 21st century. Five hundred years pass before the window of opportunity opens. The fairy queen has thirty days until the moon reaches it fullness once more, during which time she'll time-travel a sassy, grown-up Jane back to early Scotland to resurrect Aidan. INTO THE DREAMING is an excellent sensual fantasy. Karen Marie Morning weaves her own tapestry to cover readers with her magic storytelling that will enchant them.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer - As written for Romance Reviews Today	2002-08-31
US	50332742	R1LVTXJ38NOUZM	0821772406	660670106	Strictly Forbidden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Continue the sizzle begun in the prequel STRICTLY SEDUCTION	James Howland, cousin of Gavin Daggett, fifth Duke of Cropthorne, has shocked his mother and cousin by inviting a woman of scandalous reputation into their home and announcing they are betrothed. When the young woman of mixed heritage (half English and half Persian) arrived, Aunt Caroline nearly swooned. Caroline raised Gavin along with her own son when he was orphaned at a young age, but not before her brother Richard, Gavin's father, took perverse pleasure in showing and telling his young son the meaning of `The Daggett Curse', an uncontrollable lust: A lust that riddled the family in scandal from his outrageous behavior. Gavin knew his aunt had barely recovered from the scandal his father created, and to turn the family reputation around, the present duke lives a life above reproach. He is determined to see the family will not suffer this humiliation ever again. He's promised his aunt he will get the scandalous Miss Kira Melbourne to break off the engagement, even if he must seduce her to do it.<br />Kira has never been accepted by the Persian's or the English and has lived her lifetime being unwanted. She and her brother Darius were sent away by their mother to live in England with their father, when the Persian side of the family refused to acknowledge them, and he is constantly away traveling the globe. Wanting love and acceptance so badly, the naïve young woman fell for the line of a smooth talking lord, and agreed to elope with him to Gretna Green. However, two days later, she returned still single and the ton has been having a field day with her reputation ever since. When James offered marriage, Kira saw it as a way to gain respectability and accepted his offer. Though they aren't in love, they do form a friendship and he is quite kind. He is her chance for a future and she believes she will make him a good wife. She's crushed by the chilly reception when she arrived at his home, but believes once they are wed his family will accept her.<br />Shelley Bradley has penned a story that will keep readers spellbound. STRICTLY FORBIDDEN is a very sensual novel between two passionate people. Kira is forbidden territory, but the feelings Gavin has about her will not lie dormant long as his Daggett lust surges. Kira is beautiful and exotic and though she does nothing to intentionally entice Gavin, she is the only woman who has ever made him lose control. Gavin knows he is suffering from the `curse' and fears what may become of him. Ms. Bradley touches her story with humor and adventure, yet shares values with readers as well. Kira must learn to accept herself before others will, and Gavin must learn to listen to his heart, not just his head. STRICTLY FORBIDDEN is a well-written story and readers will quickly turn pages to learn how Ms. Bradley is going to resolve this plot. Remember it is a romance and as such has a happy, and satisfying ending. Each novel I read by Shelley Bradley is better than the one before it. STRICTLY FORBIDDEN follows this path, and I highly recommend this read to you.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer - As written for Romance Reviews Today	2002-08-31
US	50332742	R2RGL3OFTZLSNH	0373292198	844266611	Border Bride (Harlequin Historical Series, No. 619)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An unusual setting - And a romantic adventure in Early Wales	Conwy ap Ifan, a secondary character in a previous novel, THE ELUSIVE BRIDE, has found favor with the Empress Maud by way of an accounting of his action in recapturing a keep for her. Maud promises to outfit him with arms and men and finance a return trip to the Holy Lands if he is able to keep the Welsh lords busy fighting each other so they won't have time or resources to fight England. Since his only hope of gaining title or lands is through heroic efforts in the Holy Lands and he craves nothing more than advancement and adventure, Con agrees and is off to the Welsh borderlands to make mischief between the chiefs. A melodic voice, a charming smile, and a handsome face allow this handsome mercenary to pose as a wandering bard where he is welcomed into the Welsh homes. <br />One of the homes Con finds his way to is Glyneira in Powys, where Enid versch Blethyn hopes the traveler her daughter warns is on the way is the border chief who hints of marriage. Enid's husband died leaving her with the estate and two children to take care of, and a whining sister-in-law who constantly belittles her every move. With this in mind Enid wants to serve the traveler herself and be the one to wash his feet if he agrees to `take water', an old Welsh custom to welcome a traveler into the warmth of the home to visit as long as he desires. Enid dresses in her finest and rushes to greet the traveler, but instead of the chief she expects, she looks into the eyes of the one she's loved from the time she was a young girl living in her father's home - Conwy ap Ifan. They are both struck speechless, remembering their life together when Con worked in the stables for her father and the young love they had shared and never forgotten. Once the initial shock wears off, Enid nearly panics as she wonders how she will be able to keep the secret from Con that completely changed her life when he rode off years ago to seek his fortune as a mercenary.<br />Deborah Hale delivers a fresh rendition of an old plot, bringing action, adventure and romance together in a historical tale of old Wales. I was pleased to read about the customs and culture of the early Welsh, a country not often chosen by authors of historical fiction, as Ms. Hale shares her knowledge in this period of history. Just as appealing are the protagonists featured and the way they renew their lost love. Con is a charismatic fellow, whether in his guise as bard, mercenary, or lover, and he brings Enid back to life again - even before she learns the truth about his sudden departure when she was a young girl in love with him.<br />Be sure to pick this one up when you see the title BORDER BRIDE by Deborah Hale, and you, too, will enjoy reading a refreshing tale of old Wales.<br />Carol Carter, As written for Romance Reviews Today	2002-08-22
US	50332742	R42TBEWP3Z3OX	0373259905	709508409	Skin Deep  (Heat)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Temptation Heat Accurate Description!	Bookkeeper Kyra White is dumped by yet another jerk as her best friend in the world watches from a distance. Michael Romero is close to socking Kyra's last in the line of lovers right in the jaw when he sees the startled look on Kyra's face. He's not about to let his best friend take abuse from another loser.<br />Michael has been Kyra's champion since she came to work for his architectural firm, and since then they've become close buddies - shoulders to lean upon - to share confidences - and pick each other up after loves gone bad. They've always thought of each other like next-door neighbors, but suddenly Michael is getting different vibes. Hoy boy! Those vibes are going to be zinging pretty soon .....<br />When he gets a real good look at the new Kyra.<br />Kyra is tired of being plain Jane and does a 180-degree turn-around. She's cut her long plain brown locks, opting for short, spiked blonde ones. And goodbye sensible white, button front blouses with long skirts and HELLOOOOO slinky minis and low cut, tight stretchy tops that have every man ogling as she walks past. A new Kyra is born, and is she ever enjoying herself. The tiger in her tank is turned loose - and guess who her next prey is going to be? Yep - Michael better hang on tight, because this new woman is going to take charge of her life and go for the gold.<br />I am guessing the husband of this writing team wrote a good portion of this story as I sensed a man's viewpoint while reading Michael's thoughts. Michael goes through hoops learning life's lessons, but with Kyra to show him the way, how can he lose? Meanwhile, Kyra learns she's the same person inside no matter what she wears, but the hot, trendy look gives her the courage to fight for what she wants. <br />SKIN DEEP carries the Temptation HEAT label, and this story definitely fits the category. Hotter than a firecracker, SKIN DEEP pushes the envelope of erotic romance with vivid, descriptive sensual scenes that scorch the paper, but buried beneath this activity is a good story. For those who like them hot, you will not be disappointed in this latest one from the Carrington husband and wife team. SKIN DEEP won't cool down your hot August days, so be sure to sit in front of a fan with a cool glass of refreshment. Once you open the first page, you won't cool down until you reach the last page, and maybe not even then (grinning here)...	2002-08-12
US	50332742	R2OQ4ERIVWOX1E	0345447395	543272644	The President's Daughter: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Page Turner that holds your interest to the end!	Here's a story that will have you trying to second-guess just which president this story could be about. If you're like me, you'll have to conclude that it's none that we know. Just imagine a man of high moral integrity who walks the talk, and is so respected and held in such high esteem that his memory is still alive after thirty years, even though he isn't. This man fathered a son who idolized him and walks the same path; he serves the Congress and is contemplating his own run for the presidency. With this probability in mind, an old friend of his father's contacts a former student, Simon Keller.<br />Simon Keller quit his job as a journalist for the prestigious Washington Press when they refused to print a shocking story because Simon would not reveal his source. He refused because he had given his word, and he's writing a book to tell his story. He's free now to answer a call from his old journalism professor, Dr. Philip Norton. Now owner of a small independent publishing house, Norton proposes a two-book contract. If Simon will write the story Philip has in mind about former president Graham Hayward, Philip will publish Simon's work-in-progress. Simon accepts the offer and takes home boxes of documentation to review. He sets up interviews with colleagues and family members of President Hayward, and during one of these sessions he stumbles onto information that, if proven, will rock the political world. If what he's learned is valid, Graham Hayward had a secret affair.<br />Simon becomes more and more convinced this information is true, and a clue given by the sister of Graham's secret lover reveals even more startling information that leads him to a small town seeking Jude McDermott for answers. On the way into the library where Jude works, Simon sees a beautiful woman gardening there. Even with dark glasses covering half of her face, her million-dollar smile and charisma purely knock his socks off, and the attraction is mutual. Inside the library he learns Jude is home ill, so he drives to her house. As soon as she learns he's a reporter, Jude tries to close the door in his face, but Simon's foot prevents it. Then, much to his surprise, the gardening beauty from the library walks onto the porch and invites him in. Once Dina McDermott takes off her sunglasses, Simon is stunned - and by more than just her beauty. Another piece of a complicated puzzle has just fallen into place and this one is going to put Dina's life in jeopardy.<br />Mariah Stewart cleverly constructs her story and drops little clues about the past while introducing her characters. Initially you wonder when the romance will begin because it's nine chapters before the protagonists ever meet. Romance takes a secondary role until later in the story, although you can sense it is building. The main focus is on Simon, the information he gleans, and the actions that follow as the suspense continually builds. Ms. Stewart steadily develops his character until you feel you know him personally, through his thoughts, his senses, and his logic as he processes data. As secondary characters enter, you begin to guess who threatens Dina, all which leads you into a well-written story.<br />Mariah Stewart remains true to her trademark of familial love as this trait is woven into her characters. There is Jude, a mother who has sacrificed her entire life to raise Dina and is fierce with her protectiveness; Betsy, the aunt who has loved from afar; Celeste, the president's wife who protects her husband's image; and Graham, Jr., a man who idolized his father and walks the same path.<br />Mariah could have ended her story earlier and it would have been a good product, but she gave readers even more. She now focuses on romance telling more about Dina and Simon and a glimpse into their future. This addition satisfies romance lovers and answers questions that may linger as she ties up her story and gives a completely satisfying conclusion. THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTER is one more novelthat will move Mariah Stewart up the ladder of success in the genre of romantic suspense...	2002-08-12
US	50332742	R2B12HKGV3JUU0	0843950307	797075032	Callie's Convict	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Western That Sizzles!	Wade Mason is nearly unrecognizable as he lies wasting away in the filthy stall called a cell in the Texas State Penitentiary at Huntsville, accused of murder. Lily White, a well-known prostitute from Purgatory knows Wade isn't guilty, and she's going to make him an offer he can't refuse. Now, Wade hasn't seen a woman in longer than he cares to remember, so when Lily begins kissing and touching, the beast inside him is ready to rule. Believing she has him where she wants him, Lily tells Wade she witnessed the murder and can free him - if he will marry her. When Wade refuses, all the `sweetness' leaves with her. As far as Lily is concerned, he can rot right where he sits. Wade has other ideas, and determined to prove his innocence he breaks out of prison and heads for Purgatory.<br />Nathan Quinn is a dreamer who went to California and the gold mines to strike it rich, leaving his baby sister to take care of the farm. In addition to all of this, and unknown to Nathan, Callie couldn't refuse her dying friend Lily's plea to take her new baby, and she now has him to care for, too. With Matthew finally asleep and her chores all done, a weary, bedraggled Callie relaxes in a steamy bubble filled copper tub. Hearing a noise and believing she needs to quiet Matthew, she jumps up to reach for her robe beside her, but it isn't there ... neither is her shift that was beside it, nor the towel she left within her reach. As she wonders what in the world is going on, a deep voice speaks behind her, and with a squeak she drops back into the tub.<br />The filthy unkempt man standing three feet away in shackles sends shivers up her back. Callie fears for Matthew and begins to make plans to get her gun. Trying not to show her fear, she asks the stranger his name and a memory surfaces when he says Wade Mason. He was one of Nathan's friends, and her brother believes he's innocent. However, when Wade asks for his boy, Callie isn't sure she agrees with Nathan's verdict. No one is going totake Matthew away, father or not. And ... the battle of wills begins.<br />Heidi Betts continues her series of stories taking place in Purgatory, Texas. CALLIE'S CONVICT has similarities, yet differs from the first title in the series (WALKER'S WIDOW). While this story has humor, its main focus is on the relationship between Callie and Wade. In fact, most of the story is told right in the little farmhouse. Ms. Betts again presents a handsome, strong hero and an independent, feisty heroine. Callie is more than enough to keep up with the handsome Wade. She's beautiful and smart, and has a lot of ideas she's going to follow through on --- whether Wade likes it or not. You'll begin to wonder exactly who the hostage is. Former Texas Ranger, now the town sheriff, Clay Walker revisits to play a minor role to take care of the villains who surface.<br />CALLIE'S CONVICT contains a lot of sexual tension and often steams up as much as Callie's tub - which by the way has its own tantalizing story to tell. (Grinning here) Purgatory, Texas - a boiling, humid, Southern town - and the setting for another steamy story from Heidi Betts. I've enjoyed her first two in the series and look forward to reading the next one. CALLIE'S CONVICT is a romantic Western tale of one convict's story of redemption that also shares a message of just how incredible it is to find someone who trusts and believes in you. It's a read to leave you feeling great as you see good overcome evil, and it's one I recommend for some hours of fun.<br />Carol Carter, (As written for Romance Reviews Today)	2002-08-12
US	50332742	RJAJMPA93P3T4	051513385X	529635740	Irish Gypsy (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I wish the Riordan family had more brothers!	Cormac Riordan seeks his brother Eamon to share the news that the former Irish rebel leader `The O'Neill' is dead, and finds him sitting beside a campfire. Just moments after Cormac's arrival they learn their prized stallions have been stolen. It's dark of night and unable to begin tracking, the brothers try to sleep. Eamon wakes up first and sees a young lad leading Cormac's horse. He quickly leans the lad is a lassie as she explains why she's returning one of the stallions, and quick as a wink, the tiny mite knocks him out with a rock - a situation he isn't happy to describe to his big brother. Amused at first, the twinkle leaves Cormac's eyes when he realizes Eamon is really hurt and he insists they go home at once. Eamon would rather go after the little thief, but he's still so dizzy he has no choice but to agree.<br />The night Maura's father died, Pietro took on the role as leader of the Gypsy troupe and tried to rape her. The frightened young girl fled into the woods and stole a stallion to escape and later sells it for coin to survive. Seven years pass, and feeling strong enough to take care of herself now, Maura searches for the only family she knows. Fate is about to put another piece of her puzzled life together, and instead of the Gypsy camp, she finds Eamon, who has been securely bound to a tree by his mischievous nephews playing Robin Hood. Eamon senses Maura is familiar to him, but can't place from where. Before he has a chance to say more than a few words while she unties him, he looks up to find the little beauty is gone.<br />Finally finding the camp turns out to be a sad time for Maura, and another encounter with the loathsome Pietro has her running away again. This time fate takes her into the Riordan home as tutor to the mischievous children. Eamon is away from home, and by the time he returns Maura is well loved and accepted by the family. Eamon remembers the little horse thief and their encounter, but for reasons of his own keeps her secrets -those he knows of anyway. <br />Maura never knew her Irish mother and her Gypsy father died when she was a young teen. <BR>In spite of this she's matured to become an honest woman with a pure heart and an abundance of love she shares with others. However, being raised by the Romany, she knows most people assume they are all liars and thieves, a fact that leaves her with a low self esteem, and believing she will not be accepted if her background is known. Maura demonstrates great inner strengths as she strives to conquer her inadequacies. These traits along with her innocence and beauty attract Eamon like no other woman has been able to.<br />Eamon is a scholar and spends much of his time in his library. He's a fierce warrior, yet a warm and tender Beta man who isn't afraid to show compassion. He adores his brother's children and spends a lot of time romping with them or telling them tall tales. He's kind and considerate, and sees people for who they are and not what they are - a trait practiced by the whole Riordan family, and one that will be severely tested later in the story.<br />Ana Seymour's trilogy began with THE BLACK SWAN, the outstanding story that introduced us to the huge, handsome Riordan brothers and features Cormac and Claire. ROSE IN THE MIST followed, telling a completely different story of adventure with strong protagonists in Niall and Catriona. It saddens me to know IRISH GYPSY is the last of the series because I have enjoyed reading about this family. Though IRISH GYPSY is a complete story by itself, I would encourage you to read the first two installments as well. Ms. Seymour's Riordan brothers are all special fellows, all have their own unique personalities and the capacity to love and make you love them. This trilogy has the kind of stories you want to finish as soon as you begin, and I highly recommend them all as enjoyable reads.<br />Carol Carter as posted at Romance Reviews Today	2002-08-11
US	50332742	R2TO7RFMSAOK3V	0515133337	210294202	My Hero (Knights of de Ware)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Another DeWare lord to love!	A marriage of convenience to the eighteen year-old Cynthia le Wyte brings life back into the elderly John Wendeville. The feeble lord knows he is dying, but he wants a companion in his final years. Cynthia is so much more than he asked for. She is a vibrant lover who brings him unexpected pleasure and fills his days with joy and happiness. Her healing herbs and potions extend his life and give them two beautiful years together. Lord John adores his young wife and before taking his last breath he makes her swear to keep a promise that will affect her future - a future a greedy Wendeville abbot hopes to change.<br />The gaunt abbot is absolutely livid when he learns Lord John bequeathed the small Charing Castle to him. He'd courted the old man almost like a lover and expected to be his heir before the harlot arrived and changed everything. He will have his revenge and it will begin by selecting the new chaplain for her castle. Ah yes, he knows just the right cleric - one who won't interfere with his plans - the pitiful Garth de Ware.<br />Garth trained as a knight along with his brothers and is able to handle a sword and defend in battle, but when he fails to hold a castle for his brother Holden he decides to return to the church. Garth is temporarily sidetracked and instead of the church, he worships Mariana, a woman devoted to sexual pleasures. Mariana manages to shred the inexperienced youth of all of his masculinity and the humiliated young man vows never to shame himself with a woman ever again. He hides beneath a heavy wool robe and enters a poor monastery to insure that he doesn't. Poor misguided Garth - he may have lost his spirit, but not his hot-blooded male body. He has lustful dreams nightly resulting in torturous penance daily. The prior believes Garth is wasting away in the monastery, and is almost relieved when the Wendeville Abbot asks that Garth replace him as chaplain at Wendeville - a request that makes Garth freak out!<br />The instant Garth is introduced to the castle, Cynthia senses she's met him before, and soon recognizes him as the fifteen year old she vowed to marry when she was a young lady all of eleven. Her memories flood back to the day in his mother's enchanted garden when the handsome young knight enchanted her. Garth's memories of that day are suppressed, but future circumstances will bring them back. Meanwhile, the young man is about to learn he isn't meant to become a monk.<br />Glynnis Campbell delivers a masterpiece set in the medieval era. MY HERO has quite an unusual plot, featuring a would-be monk as the hero, but WOW! What a hero Garth de Ware turns out to be! Both Garth and Cynthia are adults, but still innocents, a fact that causes them to misunderstand each other's reactions. The evil Abbot moves the plot along and before it's over the entire de Ware clan from the previous stories in this trilogy (MY CHAMPION, MY WARRIOR) will make an appearance. Ohhh, when I read this scene I was reminded of movies I saw years ago. I felt like stomping, clapping, and standing up to whistle and cheer YES! What a grand finale to a glorious medieval tale. And to make a fabulous story even better, Glynnis Campbell adds an epilogue that adds the finishing crown to a masterpiece of writing. MY HERO - I loved it! Loved it!<br />Carol Carter, As posted on Romance Reviews Today	2002-08-11
US	50332742	R3QJDCOZUTQXSH	0843949457	184903315	A True and Perfect Knight	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Medieval Keeper	The unpleasant task of bringing his best friend to face King Edward when he's been charged with treason fell to one of Edward's most trusted knights, Sir Haven de Sessions. Even worse was when he stood beside Roger Dreyford when he was hanged. Roger's final words to Haven were a plea to keep his family safe, but then he said \\"I don't trust my wife.\\" Following the execution the king commanded Haven to bring Roger's widow to him. Haven is a most honorable knight and to him the king's word is the law. He's earned the nickname `true and perfect knight for several reasons: One for pleasing the ladies, one for honoring the king, and one for his prowess and knowledge in battle. Haven is happy to honor the king's request in this matter, because knowing in his heart that Roger's widow had to be personally responsible for his friend's downfall, he harbors a animosity for her before even meeting her. Now Haven's task puts him right in the middle of a difficult situation: He must honor the king's command, yet he also gave a vow to Roger to protect his family. <br />Haven and his party are traveling in the rain when they come upon a bedraggled, sodden group about a league away from Dreyford Castle, which is where the expected to find the widow after talking to the new lord who threw her out of his new home. Now Roger's letters to Haven described an unattractive, nagging woman and Haven expected to find a woman with a black soul, but not this sodden lump standing in the road, but he rides closer and the woman has the nerve to challenge him. It's all he can do to maintain control and not run her over with his horse, but something about her husky voice grabs his attention. Oh, but when he sees her face - it is hideous; how could Roger marry one so ugly? She has purple blotches over her eye and her face looks deformed. On closer look Haven notices lumps and calls her closer. He lifts her chin and it's so smooth he wants to stroke it, but all of a sudden he recognizes her beauty andrealizes those marks are bruises.  Questioning Genvieve, he learns the king's yeomen stoned her because she is the widow of a traitor. Before Haven touched the woman he thought hanging would be too good for her; however, when Genvieve hands him a stone to cast at her, he is stunned. He quickly regains his composure and advises the woman the king commands her presence and that he's to return her to face Edward's judgment. <br />Many trials and tribulations later, Haven does deliver Genvieve before Edward, but he has mixed feelings for the woman by this time. Even so, when Edward commands his presence beside the lady's and they face a priest, he believes the worst is about to happen after all, believing she will now receive her sentence for assisting her husband in his traitorous acts. Hmmmm...maybe it is the worst sentence that could happen. Rather than execute the woman, the priest begins the marriage ceremony and the king commands them to marry. And, what a tangled web Susan Charnley begins to weave.<br />A TRUE AND PERFECT KNIGHT is a true and perfect story! A forced marriage with a happy ending, but not before much adventure occurs. It could be nothing less with a true alpha male matched to an alpha female. Passions of more than one kind ignite, and Genvieve learns what pleasure in the bedroom is as Haven is most happy to teach the still innocent lady. But, will either one ever trust the other? Genvieve wonders how a man's best friend could betray him as Haven did Roger; and if he could do that to his best friend, would he allow the king's command to come before her as well? Meanwhile, Haven continues to have doubts about the lady's part in Roger's traitorous acts. Ms. Charnley has some tricks up her sleeve and will deliver them one at a time while taking you through her story.<br />You'll meet a lot of characters through this merry adventure and hope to see them again maybe in another story. Owain and Soames are two I'd like to learn more about - An Englishman and a Welshman, both of whom become trusted knights who aid Haven. Then there is Watley, Haven's young teenage squire - seems as though he may have his own adventures and love story just around the corner. Yes, A TRUE AND PERFECT KNIGHT leaves room for more to come from Susan Charnley, and while I'm hoping there is one to follow, I'll be placing this one on my keeper shelf to savor again.<br />As written and submitted to Under The Covers for posting.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer	2002-06-05
US	50332742	R2BJLKBDWOK57B	0373292139	265612286	The Courtship	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Changes In the Life of a Southern Belle	Jane Charlotte Davis was fourteen when her Pappa moved the family to Dixon Falls after they lost their family plantation in Marion County during the Northern Aggression. Now, Pappa is dead, buried three days ago, and the lonely twenty-six year-old woman is left with debts to repay and no money. Ever since her first day at school when she was teased unmercifully because she was different, she's been virtually locked away. She wasn't permitted to socialize or make friends, and was chaperoned by her father when she went into town. Her Mamma is slowly losing her mind, another problem to worry over. But, there's a strong person about to break free, and an idea begins to take shape. She dresses carefully, puts on her hat and gloves and heads for town to the bank. She wants to open a dressmaker's shop, and prays the banker will take her home, which is in sad disrepair, as collateral for a loan.<br />Rydell Wilder has been on his own since his Mamma died when he was little more than a youngster. He lived on what he could scrounge up in a shack by the river, attended school and saved every single penny he earned from odd jobs. Later, he rode as shotgun, then driver for Lefty Springer, the stagecoach owner, and they became steadfast friends. When Lefty was injured Dell bought the business. He continued a frugal lifestyle and saved his earnings until he could open the only bank around for miles. Through years of sacrifice and struggle he's earned the town's respect, but he still doesn't feel he `fits in with them - even though he's the most sought after man around. Rydell has never had eyes for anyone but Jane Charlotte Davis. He's been in love with her since her first day of school when he fought the shy, frightened girl's battles. <br />When Jane asks for a loan to start up a business, Rydell makes his proposal. He knows how much she will need and offers her three hundred dollars--with a condition. If her business fails and she cannot pay back the money, she must marry him.Rydell knows he will win because she isn't equipped for life in Dixon Falls. Her father saw to that. Aha! He will soon learn just how much grit and determination this sheltered woman has stored inside her. Jane has no choice but to agree; she's desperate. She must succeed; just the thought of marrying a Yankee -- even if he is tall, lean, and handsome -- gives her the incentive to persevere. Poor thing. She has no idea what the ladies in the town need. She's been raised as a Southern Belle, and life in Dixon Falls, Oregon is a tad different.<br />Lynna Banning delivers a sweet romance in post-Civil War days. She offers a worthy hero who has a few lessons to learn, and a sweet, protected heroine who exhibits inner strength. She includes colorful secondary characters in Lefty Springer, former slave Odelia who comes to take care of her `family', the blacksmith Mose who has his own romance, Lucas, the rough cowboy with a hidden agenda, and even a little kitten named General Lee. Rydell Wilder is a man of honor, and will prove just how strong that trait is when he is forced to make a monumental decision. It's very rewarding to watch Jane grow from an innocent Southern Belle into a woman who overcomes every challenge she faces. And, it's rewarding to see individuals accepting themselves and others for what they are rather than who they are. THE COURTSHIP is a satisfying story that reveals the necessity of changing with the times. It's a book I enjoyed and one I believe you will, too.<br />As Submitted for posting at Under The Covers<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer	2002-06-03
US	50332742	R1Z5ANNX0DAIAM	0373291841	969942380	My Lady De Burgh	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Love Brings Forth A Man's Hidden Strengths	It's always with anticipation when I begin the newest DeBurgh title, thinking each time that this one cannot possibly be as good as the prequel. Every time, I'm amazed at the creativity and imagination of Deborah Simmons and the way she exceeds my expectations. MY LADY DeBURGH is no exception. This, the latest release in the series, is an absolute delight to read. Robin's story unfolds to treat fans to one more unique personality of the DeBurgh clan. <br />Robin is one of seven sons born to Campion DeBurgh, and was quite young when his mother died in childbirth. With no female in the household to offer tenderness to the small boy, Robin turned to his older brothers. He loved the rough and tough bachelor home they shared, but suddenly life is changing. Who would believe his drunkard brother Stephen would ever marry, but here is the DeBurgh family --- celebrating his wedding. One by one his brothers are marrying and moving away, and Robin isn't happy to lose their camaraderie. He reasons there is a curse on the family, and heaven help him, he is next in line to be caught up in the spell. He is NOT going to marry; why even the thought makes him feel like his tunic is choking him. It's a very tense warrior who begins a quest to end the curse. Poor Robin; he hasn't a clue of what's in store for him! (I say this with a mischievous grin.)<br />The trail leads Robin to a sanctuary, and before he can enter, he hears a cry of Help! Murder! He rushes into the abbey to find chaos and a group of nuns circling a body lying prone - obviously dead. Acting as keeper of the closest estate on his brother's behalf, Robin is the coroner who must resolve this murder. When a novice voices suspicion over his appearance at this particular moment, Robin is outraged. But when the slender woman stands to confront him, he senses something else entirely. He recognizes her immediately -- She is `The One'! - He is going to fight this curse all the way. He will NOT marry! -  Furthermore, she is a NUN!<br />Sybil (`The One') was brought to the abbey as a tiny child and has never known the love of a family, or experienced worldly ways. There's a longing that's prevented her from taking vows, and this strong, passionate woman is soon to learn why she will never become a nun. As punishment for her accusation against Robin, the abbess assigns her to work side by side with him to solve this mystery. Hmmm...this is one clever abbess (grin).<br />MY LADY DeBURGH is a story of rich characters, the pages filled with laughter and sensuality. DeBurgh fans are treated to a fun visit with Simon and Bethia, and all the rest of the family when they gather unexpectedly to show support for Robin. It was my personal pleasure to read and review this novel, but I'm now left with the dilemma of knowing there are only two stories left in the series - the brothers Reynard and Nicholas. Ms. Simmons - I'm ready - anytime you are (grin)!<br />Carol Carter, As Reviewed for Romance Reviews Today	2002-06-03
US	50332742	R39NMLGYAO8KXT	0373244398	271253774	My Heart Remembers (Wyoming Wildflowers) (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Determined Man And A Sceptical Woman Remember The Past	Lisa Currick had an exceptional talent for designing jewelry, and at age nineteen she moved to New York City to work with a famous jeweler, Alex White, who saw her potential and encouraged her. Lisa felt as close to Alex as she did to her family, and admired and respected him. The feelings never changed, but she was disillusioned when he was arrested and jailed for stealing clients' jewels. Worse though, was her feeling of being used by the detective working the case. She'd walked and talked with him and dreamed of love, yet he never spoke another word to her after Alex was convicted. After the trial she immediately left New York and returned to her small hometown and never revealed what had happened.<br />Eight years may have passed, but Lisa Currick recognizes the voice and the man speaking them instantly, when she hears him say, \\"You cut your hair\\". Fortunately, she has her back to him, which gives her time to recover long enough to turn around to face him. Her plan to pretend she doesn't know him falters immediately when he simply says, \\"Hello, Lisa\\", and she looks into the face of Detective Shane Garrison, a ghost she has not been able to banish.<br />Shane Garrison has a reputation for being a detective who solves his cases down to and including the smallest detail. But there is one case he's never been able to completely put an end to. He's never found the emerald and diamond necklace Alex White stole. Before accepting a position with the District Attorney, Shane wriggles an agreement out of his new boss to give him two months to close this case, and heads for Wyoming to find the woman his mind cannot erase - Lisa Currick, the sprite who made him feel alive eight years ago. It's a beautiful woman he sees today though, and one with a hostile look. How will he ever convince her to help him? <br />Patricia McLinn doesn't waste a single word in this third story of the Wyoming Wildflower series. MY HEART REMEMBERS is a perfect title for this book, as memories return to both Lisa and Shane. Focus is almost totally on the lead characters, but family members with stories in the prequels are present to give advice, and help Lisa recognize hidden fears and hurts that she's buried. Ms. McLinn tells a little of the life of a policeman and the need to have an anchor for balance. Shane discovers what he's really looking for as he spends time with Lisa and tries to restore her sprightly personality. He's a man who doesn't understand what `N' - `O' means and he constantly reminds her he doesn't give up. MY HEART REMEMBERS has no fluff; it's a story of emotion and sensuality that also features strong family bonds. I read this in one sitting and enjoyed it so much that now I've got to try to find the first two prequels in the series. <br />Carol Carter, as written for Romance Reviews Today	2001-12-06
US	50332742	R39NHS2U4N5EN0	0515131547	818770007	The Border Bride (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A FABULOUS DEBUT - WATCH THIS AUTHOR MOVE TO THE TOP	The Darnleys and the Kirallens have been feuding as long as anyone alive can remember, but the feelings between Laird Darnley and Kirallen's eldest son Ian escalated into a loathing so fierce that Ian is killed. This so devastated Laird Kirallen that all he wants now is for the killings to stop. Thus, when Laird Darnley is captured, Kirallen demands a marriage take place between Jemmy, his youngest son and Darnley's daughter. Darnley agrees to the marriage, but still filled with hatred, he plots a devious plan. He has his brother Robert train his bastard daughter Alyson in the ways of a noble in order to masquerade as Maude. <br />Alyson was never acknowledged by her father and worked as a lowly servant, and she doesn't want to be a part of his plan, but when Darnley holds a knife to her younger brother Robin's throat she reluctantly agrees. Her half-sister Maude is a haughty, spoiled girl who treats everyone with contempt and is disliked by the servants, while Alyson is a small, delicate, sweet natured young woman. Knowing about her father's deceitful plan, she walks into the church to utter marriage vows with much trepidation. It's only thinking of Robin's safety that gives her the courage to face what is to come. The wedding feast is torture enough, but how will she ever get through the night?<br />Jemmy Kirallen grew up in the shadow of his older brother Ian and their foster brother Alistair, an inseparable duo. Jemmy dreamed of other lands, and sailed away to find his own home. He has his own ship and crew now and loves the rolling seas, but when he learns of Ian's murder, he immediately sails for Scotland. He knew his father would be devastated, but he wasn't expecting the frail, aged man he meets upon his return. Neither is he expecting to be forced into marrying the daughter of the clan's enemy. However, he agrees with his father and will do whatever is necessary to bring peace to the clans. He isn't looking forward to the marriage, but when his lips brieflytouch his brides to seal their vows, he's shocked by the sensation the kiss brings.<br />Elizabeth English weaves a tale with the mastery of an experienced writer, yet this is just her debut title. She introduces conflict between her characters, and a well-worn plotline takes on a fresh look. The romance element between Jemmy and Alyson is brought about slowly. While there is a `misunderstanding' between the couple, it's done in a way that the reader can accept, being more like `circumstance' rather than misunderstanding. Ms. English also introduces an element of the paranormal as a ghost is present. I was left wondering about the ghost's story, and would liked to have known a little more of his resolution before he found his rest. <br />I truly believe Elizabeth English will be a voice to reckon with in the medieval genre. THE BORDER BRIDE captivated me and I am looking forward to the sequel of Alistair Kirallen's story. I've found a new author to put on my automatic buy list and believe you, too, will fall in love with the magic of her storytelling.<br />Carol Carter, as written for Romance Reviews Today	2001-12-06
US	50332742	RCQBRMEI0I5FW	0373790163	201749030	Heat Waves (Sexy City Nights)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Janelle Denison Heats Up Chicago!	Erica is a DJ for a small radio station in Chicago and is building a reputation in the community with her talk show 'Heat Waves'. One particular caller makes nightly calls at exactly the same time each evening which results in more listeners and climbing ratings. He&#8217;s a man with the sexiest voice and a mischievous attitude that challenges Erica with his responses. Just as he has become a fantasy in her mind, so has she become one in his. <BR>Ms. Denison describes her characters to such a degree that readers are able to create a mental image. An example is when she introduces Ian. He doesn&#8217;t just get out of the shower and towel off; he steps out and dries off with a plush forest green towel that matches his bathroom dcor &#8211; he lives in a penthouse, his suite overlooking the harbor on Lake Michigan.  She doesn&#8217;t even have to tell us he&#8217;s a wealthy CEO &#8211; She manages to put that image in your mind through her colorful words.<BR>Janelle Denison definitely has a knack for writing Blaze stories as once more sexy city nights are lit up to engulf a reader in flames; this time in the humid, steamy city of Chicago. She heats up readers along with the airwaves and gives lessons in love and trust as a bonus. If you enjoy a hot story, bordering on erotica, turn on the fan and treat yourself to HEAT WAVES! <BR>Carol Carter as written for Romance Reviews Today	2001-10-23
US	50332742	RA8KGXU1232NC	0821768808	416330390	The Miner's Daughter: The Dream Maker	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fun with an era not often written about	Once more we return to a period in history not often written about - the era of silent movies - as we visit with the cast of Peerless Studios in the making of a new movie titled LUCKY STRIKE. To film this one, we are taken to the Mojave Desert to what Martin Tafft believes to be an abandoned mine. However, when a dog the size of a small horse and its owner attacks him and his male lead, they soon find out there's a little lady they will have to deal with - the owner and worker of the Marigold Mine.<br />Mari Pottersby doesn't have an easy life. Her mother died when she was an infant, and her dreamer of a father cared more about his mine than anything else in the world. She's really not living, but surviving, in a one-room shack she calls home, and works in the mine trying to fulfill her father's dream of finding a vein of silver. No wonder she takes an instant dislike to the spoiled, rich son of a major investor in the film. Anthony Ewing is rich in his own right, and is a real snob in the beginning of this tale. One innocent, wide-eyed little woman is going to open his eyes and his mind before this story is finished.<br />Alice Duncan doesn't fail fans who enjoy her blend of humor and snappy dialog. Mari and Tony fire remarks at each other, neither of them understanding the senses that come alive when they're around each other. Ms. Duncan presents an historical of an era not often visited, and makes the history of the movie industry educational as well as entertaining. She introduces Tiny, a great Dane who scares the living daylights out of strangers when he charges, but he's a puppy at heart and the only way he would hurt anyone would be by licking them to death. Tiny has his own personality and is as important to the story as any of the other minor characters as he adds fun to the tale.<br />I've enjoyed the previous titles in the 'Dream Maker' series: COWBOY FOR HIRE and BEAUTY AND THE BRAIN, and Ms. Duncan's latest title, THE MINER'S DAUGHTER, is just as enjoyable, if not even more so. I'm anxious to read the next one in the series that will be released in November, HER LEADING MAN. Alice Duncan is a pioneer in this era as she brings the film industry to life, giving readers hours of pleasure in the process.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer as written for Romance Reviews Today.	2001-09-26
US	50332742	RSNC1HQ55GQP4	1575668203	501369638	Tell Me Why	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Suspense and Stella - the best of both!	Every now and then I'll pick up a book and just cannot put it down; TELL ME WHY is one of those books. From the introductory poem to the final sentence, I was 'in' this story. A tone is set in the beginning as readers watch Carolee Burns ache for just a glimpse of the daughter she loves so dearly. She's hiding in the shadows waiting for Faith to come out of her dance class, hoping she can watch her a few minutes before her ex-husband Kip drives up. It's a year since their divorce, but he's still maintaining tight control, and threatens to take the few custody rights she has away. Carolee is a successful jazz pianist, but currently refuses any engagements except for appearing now and then at her friend Brandy's supper club<br />It's here that Max finds himself under Carolee's spell, listening to her share her sadness through her playing. Max can't understand his own feelings, but this sexy woman turns him on, and he's there every night she's playing. Max played pro-football for Seattle until a freak accident crushed his legs. He loved the game and has had a hard time dealing with this blow, but he's built a successful computer company and lives a good life, even though it is a lonely one. <br />The last night at the Club, Carolee's dad, Sam is there, and he watches Max watch his daughter. Sam wants his daughter to begin living again, and he has an idea that will jump-start her in that direction. It's her turn to have Faith for four weeks this summer, and a happy Gramps brings home two gifts for her arrival - a puppy and a pony. He's hired a man to teach her to ride - Have you guessed who yet? Yep, Max. Events begin to snowball from this point on that will keep your eyes glued to the pages. When Kip learns there is another man in the picture, he tightens his control. He's going to turn nasty, and Carolee has to dig deep to get the strength to fight. Gramps and Max are there to offer their love and support, and she'll need them.<br />Stella Cameron brings her characters to life with vivid descriptions and heart breaking memories, helping readers feel the warmth, anger, joy, love, hate, frustration, sensuality, and lonliness emanating from them. You are pulled right into her story, rushing through the pages to see what is going to happen next. TELL ME WHY is a very believable tale filled with events to keep you on a roller coaster ride as emotions go up and down with the highs and lows her characters experience. There is angst and suspense, and a beautiful love that grows from a friendship. There is also a villain you'll want to see get what he deserves, and Max is the kind of man you want to see make sure it happens. I've had the privilege of reviewing Ms. Cameron's last three stories - KEY WEST, GLASS HOUSES, and FINDING IAN. While I've enjoyed each tale, I believe her writing of TELL ME WHY is her best effort yet. It's an encouraging and powerful story and one I very highly recommend..<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer (As posted at Romance Reviews Today)	2001-09-10
US	50332742	RGIRSEC8YU3VC	0380815230	822989689	My Wicked Earl (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Middle Class Lass Clashes With An Arristocratic Earl	MY WICKED EARL By Linda Needham Historical - Regency Period<br />Charles Stirling, the Earl of Everingham, is being hampered in his investigation of the Bloody Massacre at Peterloo by seditious and incendiary broadsides and speeches made by his nemesis, Captain Spindleshanks. He's finally located this troublemaker and sent his men to spring the trap and capture this captain. Expecting the tall, dark man often described, he's astonished when his doors are thrown open with a bang and the prisoner thrown in is a magnificent woman. Barefooted, wearing nothing more than a sheer nightgown and shackles on her wrists and ankles, Hollie Finch boldly faces the man most fear. She's captured and her broadsides and printing press are confiscated, but the quick thinking rebel fabricates a tale of an elusive husband who is the captain they are searching for. It's a lie that keeps her safe, but one that will come back to haunt her later.<br />Charles holds the lady as hostage, believing her husband will quickly come to her rescue. After all, how could he possibly stay away from such passion and beauty for long? Hollie quickly turns the tables, and it's more like Charles is the hostage. He can't stay away from her, using the excuse that he must watch her day and night so he doesn't miss the opportunity to catch her husband when he arrives. She has him so besotted he even installs her printing press for her. She continually spies, gathering information for the scathing broadsides she secretly produces right under his nose. Hollie's father was brutally murdered at Peterloo and she is determined to tell the world the truth of that blood bath.<br />MY WICKED EARL is a regency historical featuring a unique heroine. Unlike most women of her time, Holly is educated and clever, and has a forceful personality. She's a rebel in her own time, unwilling to bend before the upper classes of society. Linda Needham further introduces conflict as she develops a romance between a commoner of the middle class and an earl of high political standing. She finds a way for these two worlds to meet and learn about love, and does it with humor and sizzling sensuality. She adds secondary characters to build a bridge between the unlikely couple, and tells her story in such a way to make it believable. MY WICKED EARL is a book you will enjoy reading and one I recommend you add to your shopping list. <br />Carol Carter, Reviewer - As written for Romance Reviews Today	2001-08-14
US	50332742	R36E28SYKXAOCP	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A glorious story of the Middle Ages.	England and France ravage Brittany, but even worse is the Black Death sweeping through the land. It strikes a youth in the traveling party of Morvan Fitzwaryn. In order to stay with the youth until death comes, the big knight turns the rest of his party back and pushes his way into a longhouse despite the angry villagers that gather. Listening to the crowd growing more restless, Morvan believes his death may come before the plague claims him. Suddenly there is silence and the door is thrown open by two knights. However, stepping into the sunlight, Morvan is struck speechless when he sees the taller knight is a woman - a startling sight as he takes in her height, men's clothing, the sword in her hands, the golden tresses tumbling in curls around her face, and her slender woman's form. He's just met Anna de Leon, a woman who stands as tall and proud as any man.<br />Anna grew up an awkward girl, more suited to the bow and sword than embroidery and household chores. She lived several years in an abbey where she didn't feel ugly and different and her warrior skills were needed and welcomed. She is totally innocent of the fact that she's a beauty desired by men, believing they pretend to be enamored, telling lies to gain her rich lands. She vows never to marry and be subject to any man and lose the freedom she craves. Morvan is not immune to this woman; in fact he cannot look at her without feeling desire. More than that, his soul touches hers one night, and from that moment he has an uncanny way of knowing her thoughts and becomes her protector.<br />THE PROTECTOR is a glorious story of the Middle Ages, brimming over with sensuality and adventure, using actual facts as a base for this fictional offering. This is not a tale of pomp and circumstance, but a primitive story featuring a hero and a heroine who fight for honor, while protecting the one they love. Madeline Hunter gives fans another strong, vibrant woman of independence in Anna, and for the perfect mate she creates Morvan, a man worthy of the challenge to claim her, but with wisdom not to tame her. She introduces a clever, evil presence in the cunning Gurwant, a blue-eyed, blonde giant determined to have Anna and her lands by any treacherous schemes he can conjure up. There are warm secondary characters, but this story belongs to Anna and Morvan. They must look into their inner beings to examine their feelings and determine their future. Ms. Hunter brings satisfaction to her readers with a conclusion that answers questions and doesn't leave you wondering. But this story is so good you hate to see it end!<br />I've read all previous titles written by Madeline Hunter, (BY ARRANGEMENT, BY POSSESSION, BY DESIGN) and thoroughly soaked up each offering like a sponge. THE PROTECTOR is another outstanding example from a brilliant author destined for stardom in the romance world. It's another page-turner that will sit beside her trilogy on my keeper shelf, and a story I highly recommend for your reading pleasure ...	2001-07-30
US	50332742	R37X6B8BFMGEST	0804119511	168651540	What to Do About Annie?	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Annie sparkles with fun and laughter.	Millie Criswell picks up right where she left off in THE TROUBLE WITH MARY! as she pens another wonderful story to keep readers smiling on just about every page of WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE? I believe Ms. Criswell found her niche as she writes romantic comedy like she was a natural for the genre. Her second contemporary sparkles with fun and laughter in her one-liners and Italian and Jewish characters. The story picks up at the wedding of Mary and Dan from her earlier novel, and once more we are treated to the antics of the Goldman and Russo families. But &#8230; the main story centers on \\"Father-What-A-Hunk\\" - also known as Joe Russo, and Mary's best friend - the crazy, outlandish sexual goddess, Annie Goldman. <br />Joe learned his mind isn't always on things of the church, especially when he's around Annie, who stirs more than past memories, and he's made the decision to leave the priesthood -- something his Mother isn't going to understand at all! He's going after Annie and try to make up for leaving her in a troubled situation when they were little more than teenagers. But, Annie isn't having any of it. She's still angry with Joe and isn't going to give an inch. She wants him to suffer as she has for the last hundred years. She doesn't want to forgive and forget - even if he does make her wild with wanting. Joe isn't going to give up or stop hoping to one day marry her. He accepts a job as counselor for troubled teens at the center right next door to Goldman's Department Store where Annie and her father work as partners, and it's inevitable the sparks are going to fly - live, hot ones! Annie is a unique, non-conformist, a wild and crazy woman, a walking sex bomb who sends Joe into cold showers on a regular basis. After all - he's been a priest for fifteen years and he hungers for Annie like a starving man hungers for a meal.<br />Millie Criswell brought the Goldmans and Russos to life in THE TROUBLE WITH MARY! and while WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE? stands alone as another great read, her characters have now become almost like family. I don't know if we'll hear more about them or not, but I would be first in line to pick up the book that did continue with more tales of these characters. Pick up a copy of WHAT TO DO ABOUT ANNIE? as soon as it hits the shelves. You'll laugh often and love the ending. It's a real winner!<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer As written for Romance Reviews Today [...]	2001-07-30
US	50332742	R3I4HNOBZ7QAWB	0671785915	399661757	Voices Carry	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An exciting story with equal parts romance and suspense	What first was thought to be random kidnappings in different states changes when a twelfth woman turns up missing and the FBI is called in to assist. John Mancini is an agent with the reputation of getting inside a criminal's mind and is chosen to lead this assignment. After reviewing the individual case files, his instincts tell him this is a master plan being played out and that only one person is abducting the women. He selects a team of four agents, one of whom is Agent Genna Snow. He believes that it will be Genna who will break the case by finding a missing piece of the puzzle. She has an uncanny sixth sense and seems to be able to instinctively feel and think like one of the victims.<br />Genna and John share a past, one that John desires to rekindle. When he walked out of her life without a word, he left her shattered and feeling abandoned. An invitation to attend a baby's christening with his boisterous Italian family will reveal unknown facts to Genna, facts which begin to change her mind and open her heart again. They will have a second chance to find love as they work together to solve the mystery of the case they're working on. It's a case that allows John to learn the horror of Genna's past and help him understand her better, and also one to cause him great anxiety when he learns Genna could be the next target.<br />Genna and John were introduced in the winning novel BROWN-EYED GIRL and now it's their turn to have their story revealed. While BROWN-EYED GIRL was a thriller-chiller type of story, VOICES CARRY is what I consider a true romantic suspense, with both elements being equal. <br />Mariah Stewart offers much more than suspense and romance in this fictional work. She writes about parental abuse and child rape, but also shares how a foster-mother with a beautiful spirit changes a young girl's life by offering unconditional love and affection. This is a multi-plotted tale about good versus evil, where secondary characters play a major role and round out the story. One of the main points is the love story, but the thread of the mystery and the suspense in finding the criminal weaves throughout. Fans will swiftly turn pages to see if they have guessed correctly, and will be surprised with twists and turns along the way. Mariah Stewart is an author on the rise, destined to hit the best-seller list at any time. VOICES CARRY is an example of her creativity, and a title I highly recommend. I believe it will find a place on your keeper shelves, right along with her previous titles.<br />Carol Carter as written for Under The Covers	2001-03-23
US	50332742	R2WOY8GVC8TLCK	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A read to bring smiles and laughter	THE TROUBLE WITH MARY Millie Criswell Ivy Books ISBN #0-804-11950-3 January 2001 Contemporary<br />Baltimore - Present<br />Mary Russo is a middle child born into a stereotype Italian family where the matriarch reminds me of Sophia of The Golden Girls TV show. Sophia Russo always has a one liner to divulge and it often begins with - The trouble with Mary is ..... to fit whatever the occasion happens to be at the moment. Thanks to many of these isms, Mary believes herself a fat failure. She dropped out of school to work in a Pizza Parlor and now her boss is dead and she doesn't have a clue where or what she wants to do. Loving to cook and deciding to venture out on her own, Mary finds a new apartment over the same building where she opens an Italian restaurant in Baltimore's Little Italy section of town. She looks forward to a thriving business, but the newspaper's food editor blasts her restaurant with a terrible critique.  Just wait till that Dan Gallagher, whoever he thinks he is, gets a piece of her mind!<br />Dan Gallagher was a successful sports editor for the newspaper, but nepotism enters the picture and he's asked to fill a vacancy as food editor for a spell. Dan isn't happy, but doesn't have much choice either. Dan hates Italian food and must review the new restaurant opening in Little Italy, and blasts it with a terrible critique. He has set an Italian family against him and little Mary Russo is going to burn his ears when she walks into his office a few days later.  But when Dan looks at the petite woman it's more than his ears that burn.<br />Millie Criswell steps into the arena of contemporary writing with a blast, as THE TROUBLE WITH MARY is a riot of romantic comedy. She gives readers a story to laugh with and brings a family to life when a typical Italian daughter falls for of all things, an Irishman. Dan and Mary are such fun to read about as they become friends, then lovers. Her secondary characters seem like relatives after you read a few chapters. There is the colorful Grandma Flora who never lets Sophia forget she wasn't good enough for her son, Frank, but no woman could have met Flora's expectations. The aunts and uncles and their idiosyncrasies will keep a smile on your face with their antics. Then there is Dan's precious little boy, Matthew, who doesn't want to live with Dan and is angry because his mother deserted him, but Grandma Flora and Mary will soon bring him out of the doldrums. Then, there is Mary's brother, Joe, a priest and light of his mother's eyes; and Annie, the outrageous best friend, among other characters presented. Each of the cast is fully developed and given a unique personality.<br />Though most of the story is a comedy, there are some serious matters hidden between the lines, and the author does a great job in solving them. Mary harbors a real fear of failure in her relationship and hesitates to commit because of that fear. She's also been under her mother's thumb all of her life and enjoys her independence and doesn't want to give that up. Dan was been burned in his first marriage and isn't interested in anything more than a casual relationship - but Mary's family will have more than a little to say about that. THE TROUBLE WITH MARY is a read to pick up when you want to lift your spirits and put a smile on your face.  Millie Criswell proves she can write a contemporary to equal her previous historicals as she uses imagination, wit and humor to bring a delightful story to her fans. There are steam-filled pages of sensuality as the thirty-something virgin learns about making out. This reader is hoping there is a sequel to bring this family to a conclusion since I have a strong need to know more about brother Joe.  Millie Criswell left me with a grin and a satisfying conclusion to a tale I highly recommend.<br />Carol Carter/As written for Under The Covers	2001-02-08
US	50332742	RB1BEK29C8BML	0373291485	894314230	Sweet Annie (Harlequin Historical, 548)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Sweetest Romance You'll Ever Read	SWEET ANNIE By Cheryl St. John<br />Annie Sweetwater was born crippled, lives in a wheelchair, and is never permitted to do anything that might endanger her. At her tenth birthday party, a visiting Luke Carpenter takes her for a horseback ride and she soars with a sense of freedom; a sensation quickly quenched when an overly-protective brother beats Luke when they return from riding. Annie's entire family shelters and keeps her child-like, but her mother is the most dominating figure, intent on keeping her daughter dependent. She continually reminds Annie that she is not like other girls and never will be, leaving a sensitive young girl feeling suffocated and useless with no self-worth at all.<br />It is ten years later when Annie's life begins to change, and a chance stop at the livery stable is the beginning of one of the sweetest romances you'll have occasion to read. Luke is one of the most sensitive heroes Ms. St. John has created. He's not only handsome, he's compassionate, protective, and oh-so loving and thoughtful. He's a man any young girl in town would be thrilled to have as a suitor, but it's Annie who captures his heart. He sees her as a beautiful young woman and, through his love and tenderness, she begins to see herself that way too. Readers will see a young, sheltered girl mature into a determined, independent woman deserving of Luke's adoration. <br />As in her former title THE DOCTOR'S WIFE, Cheryl St. John writes another emotionally-driven plotted tale in SWEET ANNIE. She touches on many sensitive issues, including a physically challenged person, a battle of wills between a dominating mother and her daughter; an over-protective family; an unexpected death; rich vs. poor; struggle for acceptance; and much, much more. Cheryl St. John delivers a beautiful, well-written story to touch your heart. She'll have you cheering for Annie and falling in love with Luke. Like Caleb in her title THE DOCTOR'S WIFE, Luke is a hero to die for. SWEET ANNIE is a romance that will end up on your keeper shelf, and one I highly recommend for your reading pleasure.<br />Carol Carter/As written for Under The Covers	2001-02-02
US	50332742	R2PD2U5M95KZN3	0743403347	524496861	Fortune'S Bride (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A light read to lift your spirits and leave you feeling good	London, England - 1835<br />Alyssa Porter and her sister Calla were taken from their family home and sent to Live in a cottage in the country when their father, The Earl of Tonneson, died and a cousin inherited the estate. When the new earl stops even their miserly monthly  stipend, Alyssa is forced to take desperate measures for their survival. The young ladies move into a tenant apartment in an impoverished area of London, and Alyssa masquerades as Madam Zora, a gypsy woman who becomes the newest form of entertainment as she earns a meager living telling fortunes to members of the ton. When Ian Fortune hears the popular woman is dubbed Fortune's Lady' he decides to have his palm read and have some fun mocking the gypsy woman.  Oh my, but does this initial meeting ever change this arrogant young man's future!<br />Ian's father, son of Regis Fortune, the Duke of Hammond, fell in love and married a family servant and was disowned and disinherited, dying without a penny to his name. Ian refuses to acknowledge the duke as his grandfather, and struggles to become a successful business man, worth a fortune of his own. The last task to prove himself is to marry a titled woman, and the wealthy bachelor moves in the ton's circle to find one. The duke is determined to choose the right 'gel' for his grandson, because acknowledge it or not, Ian will be the next Duke of Hammond. <br />Alyssa Porter and Ian Fortune is such a fun couple to read about. It doesn't take Alyssa very long to charm Ian with her sense of humor, intelligence, quick wit, and passion for living. She is just the challenge this handsome young fellow needs. He is a loving, romantic, with a sense of honor to do what is right, and quickly develops a need to protect her. Secondary characters are given just the right personalities and situations to offer conflict and round out the story, but it's a pure joy to read about the lead couple and the antics they experience as their friendship grows.  You'll think of the old adage - cutting off your nose to spite your face - as you read about Ian and his determination not to allow his grandfather to manipulate him.<br />Victoria Malvey delivers another enjoyable tale with FORTUNE'S BRIDE. It's a story with romance and humor and a little suspense as you try to figure who, what, and why. You will experience sensual tension with a delightful couple in a regency setting, and a very satisfying conclusion. Get set for a light, pleasurable read; one I highly recommend to lift your spirits and leave you feeling good.<br />Carol Carter, Reviewer	2000-12-29
US	50332742	R2AAIT3HDBWCHB	1585710288	940271784	No Commitment Required (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Seressia Glass's Debut Novel Is A Smashing Success!	The crafting of this novel was done so well that you can almost believe it was a personal experience.  Seressia Glass has captured the essence of her character's hearts and has transferred their thoughts and feelings to her readers. <br />Two strangers meet and instantly sizzle. NO COMMITMENT REQUIRED tells their story - sensuality is hot - emotions are so strong readers will need a box of kleenex handy - submerged pain and grief come to the surface to be dealt with - and a love so strong it conquers insurmountable odds brings about a satisfying conclusion. Ms. Glass pushes buttons in her debut to take the challenge of a controversial issue, but she does it in style as she tells a beautiful love story filled with romantic moments to fulfill a reader's fantasy. I highly recommend this read.<br />Carol C in GA	2000-11-06
US	50332742	RYOQI6EL8GHDE	0821766961	72052024	Tides Of Love (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	When two opposites attract, love sizzles!	Marielle-Claire (Elle) Beaumont lived in France until she was four years old, and when her loving mother died,she came to America to live with her father. Ignored and lonely, a young Noah Garrett became her champion and it was his mother, Eliza, who gave this little girl love and comfort.  The little red-haired imp flew from one disaster to another, and followed her hero around like a little lost puppy.  When Eliza died, a secret from her past was revealed in a journal that was so shocking it made Noah ran away, not to be heard from or seen again for ten years.  Noah spent many of those years near starvation as he struggled through college, and he's now a renowned biologist. He's been sent to his childhood home to head up a research lab.  Not ready emotionally to face his brothers, and attempting to arrive in secret, it is his luck to literally run into his old nemesis, Elle Beaumont. <br />Elle is a petite beauty, but also very disorganized and impulsive; while the tall, handsome, scholarly Noah is ruled by logic, and is a neatnic.  Yet, author, Tracy Sumner, brings these two characters together and no matter how hard he fights it, she delivers a yummy love story.  As in CAROLINA ROSE, this author's unique voice and descriptive words take you into the story.  Sometimes you will laugh at Elle's antics and other times will grab a kleenex .  You might breathe a few sighs during  sensual love scenes, and cheer when Mr. Logic loses control.  TIDES OF LOVE is a beautifully written love story, touched with humor and emotion and destined to find a spot on your keeper shelves.	2000-10-09
US	50332742	RM7W6TKNU9IB5	0505523981	163291098	Cooking Up Trouble	Books	4	13	14	N	N	COOKING UP TROUBLE - a delight and joyful read	Here's an old fairy tale with a modern twist Emma Craig has written that will lift your spirits and give you some laugh out loud moments as you turn the pages.<br />All Irishmen love to talk, and Heather Mahaffey's father is no exception.  After a few drinks of ale at a town party and wanting to impress a wealthy rancher, Mr. Mahaffey brags on how well his daughter can cook.  Now the whole town knows Heather can't boil water, but Philippe St. Pierre isn't aware of it.  In desperation and seeking employment, Heather knocks on the St.Pierre door to apply for the position of cook.  The housekeeper wants to throw her out, but after looking at this little beauty, Philippe decides to give her a chance.<br />When Heather goes into this beautiful, modernized kitchen, she drools over all of the equipment, but doesn't have a clue what to do with any of it.  So....when a mysterious stranger comes calling and makes her an offer she can't refuse, he does the cooking and cleaning up and she does the serving!  What this pretty little miss doesn't understand is that you don't get something for nothing.  This fellow cooking up the gourmet dinners has a plan she isn't going to like; he is really cooking up trouble!<br />Ms. Craig gives readers another glimpse of the humor she is famous for, and you'll chuckle and grin to the end of the last page.  It's a delight to see this mysterious stranger get bested, and it's fun to watch Philippe fall in love with this cutie.  Gee, even the cover is wonderful as it shows that mischievious smile on Heather's face.  COOKING UP TROUBLE will lift your spirits and leave you with a smile.  I highly recommend it for an evening of fun.	2000-10-09
US	50332742	R2BPE2MJ7ZRXPH	0373291337	791035978	My Lord De Burgh (Historical)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	MY LORD de BURGH	Once again Deborah Simmons delights her fans as she offers the fourth deBurgh brother's story.  Finally, we get to meet Stephen, the most handsome of the seven siblings, a man used to having any woman he desires, which earns him the reputation of a rogue. Ahh, but the author shows us in this tale that 'what you see' isn't always 'what you get'.  Stephen is a very troubled man and uses arrogance and charm to mask his real feelings. He is also the most sensitive of the DeBurgh siblings. Because his elder brothers believe this is a weakness, he taunts and mocks all of his siblings and drinks too much ale and wine to hide this facet of his personality.  He is in a near drunken state when unexpected visitors arrive at Campion Castle and a command decision made by his father, Fawke DeBurgh, Earl of Campion, is surprise enough to shock him into sobriety.<br />Brighid l'Estrange is a plain, dull looking woman accompanied by two little old bumbling women, her aunts Cafell and Armes, who arrive at the castle of their overlord with a special request.  Brighid received word of her father's death and insists on rushing to Wales to investigate her suspicions and check on her inheritance.  Her aunts, blessed with special gifts, as all of the l'Estrange women are, worry since they sense danger if their niece rushes off unguarded. They rarely use their 'gifts' to protect themselves from being known as witches, but in this instance they secretly 'look into the water' to see into the future.  The vision that appears is a dark, handsome knight they recognize as a DeBurgh man. When they enter the castle and see Stephen they realize he is the one that will be Brighid's savior, and they request an escort for her journey to Wales. Campion, being the all-seeing, all-knowing, wise father he is, chooses Stephen for the job!<br />Deborah Simmons will present many challenges for this couple along their way to Wales that will mature each of them.  Brighid begins to look into Stephen's heart to learn he is not a drunken wastrel, but a gentle man, suffering from self-inflicted wounds.  Meanwhile, Stephen watches what he believes to be an unattractive woman emerge into a beautiful woman of pride and strength. Brighid will fight this charmer all the way, but will not be able to deny their passion as sensuality is subtly introduced by the author.<br />MY LORD DeBURGH is an outstanding addition to the DeBurgh family saga, as Deborah Simmons pens another winning story. I was delighted to read of a loving, caring father who challenges his son in order to bring out his strengths. I was also touched by the tenderness shown by both Stephen and Brighid toward each other. As each brother is given a unique personality, Ms. Simmons turns them into a 'realistic' family for her fans. Your pleasure will be enhanced if you have read the prequels in the series; however, MY LORD DeBURGH will stand alone as a great story even if you haven't. I highly recommend reading this historical that will take you once more into the medieval past. I will be sad when this saga is over, but I eagerly wait the next one. The good news is - there are still three single DeBurgh brothers!	2000-10-09
US	50332742	R21GGI0RR3Y0WR	0671775251	906716141	A Merry Chase (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	A MERRY CHASE By Victoria Malvey	One afternoon while spending time with his friends at White's, their gentleman's club, a lively discussion took place.  Van Cleef's friends were complaining about the time and effort it took to woo their future wives and  were astounded when Royce told them to use the same logic they would in a  fox hunt.  Laughing, his friends proposed a wager: they would name the  future bride and he had to come to scratch in a limited time or lose the  bet. When he heard the lady's name he was to win - Laurel Simmons - he  almost choked, but she was a beauty, had the right background, and it was  time to marry and 'get an heir'.  He decided this would sweeten the  challenge and....would you believe it....He accepted the wager and 'The  Chase' was on. <br />Laurel Simmons had decided she would never again give her  heart to any man as she had to that low-down Archie Devens. The love of her  life jilted her when he came into an unexpected inheritance and she knew  then he was only marrying her for her dowry.  But, when the handsome Lord  Van Cleef began seeking her out she was flattered and began to fall under  his spell.  After all, wasn't he the most handsome, as well as richest,  bachelor sought out today...<br />In fact, he was getting along so well that  his friends decided to slow the process down and made arrangements for Lady  Laurel to overhear their conversation and discussed the 'wager' in her  hearing.  She was quite upset, but this strong woman decided she would just  turn the tables on him.  She told the biggest gossips around that Royce Van  Cleef had decided on a bride but would not give her name.  Now, the plot  thickens and the fun really begins as every Mamma has their daughter in  front of Royce at every appearance, plus the woman he had been dating just  knew it was she.  The funny thing about this is that the more stumbling  blocks Laurel creates the more interested Royce is.  She is such a  challenge and not the insipid type of women he had been previously seeking.   He begins to have serious pangs of jealousy when his best friend Stephen  begins to squire Laurel around town.  He has an 'attitude adjustment' and  falls in love with Laurel and earnestly wants her for his wife.       Victoria Malvey has penned a regency romance that is light and fun.  The  plot of the story is the chase and her humor and wit come to the front in  this tale. While A MERRY CHASE has a touch of intrigue, the story focuses  more on the interplay between the hero and heroine.  I was reminded of the  Spencer Tracy/Katherine Hepburn type of banter between these two main  characters.  I highly recommend this one to make you laugh and put you in a  light mood.  I only hope Ms. Malvey is working on Stephen's story to  delight readers once again.<br />Carol Carter	2000-03-29
US	50332742	RMLOPXKR7DJCD	0373291051	821790485	Once A Hero (Historical, 505)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Western Romance At Its Best	Kenny (Kee) Kincaid is one of those fellas that just can't help being a hero.  He's been one since he was orphaned with another little boy when their parents were killed on a trip West.  They are the two little boys who  rescued Logan Kincaid in this author's story, ONCE AN OUTLAW.<br />Kee just  cannot refuse to help anyone in trouble - after all weren't all the Kincaid  men raised like this?  So, when he hears a woman's frantic screams - he  rides to the rescue.  <br />Right into the path of adventure with Isabel, a  mysterious beauty who is not the only one seeking her grandfather's old  gold mine.  Kee and Isabel will come near death as they search for the gold  using her 'special' map.  They also scorch the pages with some sensual  tension along the way and like the other Kincaids, once Kee is bitten by  love he won't give up until he claims her.<br />It's a delight to reunite with  the Kincaid family once again in this setting that takes place ten years  after ONCE AN OUTLAW.  Kee is another Kincaid hero to love from author  Theresa Michaels, one of the best in Western Historicals.	2000-03-20
US	50332742	RGETFEVGBEJX5	0505523515	756905912	Lord of the Keep	Books	5	2	3	N	N	LORD OF THE KEEP - Highly Recommended	Giles d'Argent does not look forward to his new duties now that his father died and passed them on to him.  As the new Baron of Hawkwatch Castle he tires of listening to petitioners presenting their complaints.  But, when  an old man and a young woman enter his hall, a mystical-like feeling came  over him and he stopped the proceedings to listen to them immediately.   Emma, a young weaver, was brought before Lord Gilles by her cruel uncle,  now her guardian, in an attempt to force her to marry the knave who stole  her innocence.  Emma believed the man she made 'vows' with would marry her  so she refused to offer up his name.  Beset with confusion when Lord Gilles  did not judge her harshly, she returns to the home of her uncle.  She is  cast out when he learns she's to have a babe and lives among the beggarly  in the village on the side of a wall of the castle.  Denying he spoke  'vows', and unwilling to claim the child as his, her 'lover' refuses to aid  in any way.  Weaving and selling at market earns Emma very few pennies, and  it is her only friend the Widow Cooper who keeps her and her baby from  starving.<br />Two years pass before Gilles will see Emma again, but he has  not forgotten her.  He is out hunting when a sense of urgency comes over  him and in a panic he follows his instincts to find Emma circled by a pack  of hungry dogs.  When he fights away the dogs Emma falls into a faint and  cracks her head on a rock.  Gilles hears a mewling sound and is surprised  when he finds a tiny blonde-headed babe wrapped in her mother's arms.  He  immediately recognizes Emma and has his squire tend her and stitch her  wounds.  Still unconscious she is taken to the castle until she wakens.   Both Emma and Lord Gilles are again struck by their mysterious feelings for  each other.  Returning to her meager dwelling Emma weaves a unique belt as  a gift to thank Lord Gilles for saving the life of her baby and herself and  he is speechless when he opens it. Gilles is overcomeby the pleasure of  the gift and tells Emma that she must join his weavers immediately.  Emma  agrees, and thus begins the story of LORD OF THE KEEP.<br />Ann Lawrence  delivers a story that is filled with excitement.  Just when you think you  have things figured out, the author offers another twist to unravel.  She  writes so expressively that readers are returned to the days of old, living  among her cast of characters.  LORD OF THE KEEP is a medieval reader's  dream, offering enough romance, steamy sensuality, and adventure to keep  readers spellbound to the end of this definite keeper.	2000-01-05
