US	50330396	RNCKP5HUL6SHD	1560976527	693298493	Comics Journal Library TP Volume 5 Classic Comics Illustrators (The Comics Journal) (v. 5)	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	More like 3 and 1/2 stars from me	I'll try to be brief. This is a great book for anyone who hasn't read the old interviews contained within this volume. However, I have read these interviews over the years and so there are no insights for anyone else who read them in The Comics Journal over the years. The art contained within this volume, on the other hand, is quite wonderful and a good deal of it is different, an update from the original interviews. Make no mistake, this book is a great art  collection with insightful, if older interviews to round it out. The large format is guite nice for showcasing the art as well.  <br />If you've somehow missed the interviews this is an opportunity to get into the heads of some stellar talents in the illustration and comic art field. With a line up a talent featuring the works and words of Frank Frazetta, Russ Manning, Burne Hogarth, Mark Schultz and Russ Heath, it's hard to imagine how the editors at TCJ could mess this up and, of course, they didn't. <br />My big beef is the lack of better Manning and Heath art. The examples are fine but I hoped for better, perhaps rarer samples. <br />That's a small complaint.	2005-10-12
US	50330396	R3CF7G75OFSSXK	0253339286	297611182	Life Through the Ages: A Commemorative Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The life of genius and inspiration	Charles R. Knight was the man who brought dinosaurs to life through study, passion and patience. This book highlights his drawings and his insights into the prehistoric world at a time when scientists were truly making an effort to understand life in the primal days of earth's natural history. Charles Knight was originally a visualist and a stunning one at that. As his passion for the recreation of the prehistoric world grew so did his overwhelming efforts to understand his subjects and the worlds they inhabited. This book is work of love for those subjects but it is also a thoughtful work of scientific observation relying on all the evidence available at that time. Some may be disappointed in the art because it's presented in black and white as drawings or paintings reproduced without Knight's beautiful color pallete represented. Despite that, this book is a rarity and it's art is still a pleasure to see and well reproduced, and the written descriptions of life in those ancient days along with scientific information that is represented are still evocative and educational to the reader. Even the dated aspect of that information sheds light on the dedication and the hard work that went into compiling this book when it was first produced. <br />It's good to see this book brought back into print and it is a worthy contribution to the study of paleontology and the history of that scientific study.	2005-08-29
US	50330396	R5PQVZYU9R3I	1932183523	245399574	Frazetta: 2006 Wall Calendar	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	another side	I agree with the first reviewer in that the format makes this calendar impossible to extract the art as prints due to the way the art extends well below the mid-section. <br />However, the reviewer has the option of buying a collection of Frazetta's art by buying ICON for a little more than twice the price and with 10 times as many pieces ready for framing that can be removed from that book. <br />The reason I like this new calendar is the fact that the art is represented so large. Yeah, the plates can't be removed but for a full year there are these much larger reproductions of Frazetta's work demanding my attention. <br />It'a calendar that looms large and takes charge of the wall, defying any veiwer not to take a look at the powerful examples of violence, mayhem, fear, grandeur and eroticism. <br />Two gripes: <br />1)I wish someone would color proof these images against the originals (the way Frank himself once did in the dark ages) because the colors are always too warm. This problem has also plagued the recent collections featuring his art. <br />2)The publisher, or another, (perhaps the Frazetta's themselves) should put out a full length, wire bound calendar seperating each month to get those folds out of the images. This is how the higher quality calendars present their subject matter (I see this a lot here in Europe). <br />The two gripes would cost good money to rectify but it would be more than worth it to pass the cost on to the buyers. <br />This way the art is both well represented, and the sturdier calendar would be re-usable, and easier to remove the images as plates.  <br />Here's hoping next year is the year. <br /> <br />Rick <br />	2005-08-25
US	50330396	RS0W83PKI2286	1932563628	964913968	Star Hawks The Complete Series	Books	2	22	23	N	N	Not the artist and writers fault	My first review of this was 4 stars. That was when I had the book brand new. My enthusiasm has waned considerably when I see how muddled the reproductions are. The strips reprinted in this volume deserve much better treatment than they've recieved. I cannot second guess the reason that these strips are so small other than this was an effort to keep the book affordable. <br /> <br />Problems: <br />1) The strips are reproduced in 3\\"X 5\\" scale which cuts down on the clarity of Gil Kane's crisp, distinctive line work (on pages 20 and 21 there is a sample of the art in an 11\\" X 7\\" format and a WORLD of difference can be witnessed in it's visual impact!!). <br />2) The art appears to be reproduced from stats and not the original art which, further denigrates the quality of line work. <br />3) The written script is also terribly small. For those of us who read this strip that's a burden because we're now old enough that this fine print is annoying. <br />4) There are no pages featuring the Sunday color strips within the continuity presented in the book's format. At this tiny size a little color would have been something to distract me from the poor reproduction quality. <br /> <br />Nitpicks:  <br />1) The cover art was one of the most boring images from Gil Kane's art for this strip. Much better and much more dynamic examples are all through this collection. A limited edition print was made some time ago with Jaxon engaging a huge bug beast and that image would have served better as the cover and would have grabbed people's attention to this collection. There are literally hundreds of better pieces of art to use for this cover. <br />2) The endpapers are just plain boring. The repeated, tiny image of the robodog from the strip making a page pattern was also very lackluster. <br />3) The book's format is roughly 9 1/2\\" x 12\\" running vertically. This format is common for comic strip reprints but the dust cover flaps are too shallow, popping off as soon as the book is cracked open, and the binding, while very accessable, is also somewhat loose feeling. I have to do a little routine to set this on my lap. <br /> <br />What's right: <br />1) Despite the lack of color strips presented within the continuity there are some examples of full page reproductions in the back of the book. Unfortunately they are reproduced from the newsprint strips and so the color is not very good, and the line work again suffers from cheap printing. One of those strips is actually very nice and clean, but one among fourteen is nothing to crow about. <br />2)The introduction however is the best part of the book. Again, though, there is a downside to this but this is a purely personal problem that I have. Ron Goulart and Gil Kane are creative innovators in SF and Fantasy. So, why are so many of the examples of art presented in these sections those from superhero comics? Gil tried very hard to expand on what comics could be. He experimented outside of the mainstream so often that it was lush life of creative ideas, most of which, sadly, saw little in the way of mainstream acknowledgement. Star Hawks was an excuse to push both comic strips and the graphic narrative beyond the cliche's that are rife in the publishing world. While not a glowing success Star Hawks deserves better than another rehashing of superhero driven nostalgia for Gil Kane's art. <br /> <br />Another of many chances to get something worth praise out to world has been a let down.	2005-07-29
US	50330396	R2K96O3I6Z7J80	1932382380	209700016	Remains	Books	4	0	5	N	N	A bleak read but very entertaining	This was my first zombie read in some time. I like the survivor mentality that makes the lead characters so grim and yet still able to cope with their situation. The distrust that manifests when a living gal comes upon the two living on the edge in the heart of the city. Is it rivalry that drives the former waitress (who has made it clear she has no feelings beyond the man's helping her survive) or is it something deeper? This is a good study of the survivor mentality especially regarding the jaded outlook of those who are surrounded by the undead. <br />As for the art, I loved it! It has a scratchy quality that emphasizes the mood of the book. It's raw and red like a wound but also straight edged and a little on the minimalist side. This art reflects the story so well that it literally adds something to the narrative which is scant but also very effective.  <br />My one beef is the price of this collection which I read in it's original comic book form. <br />Now, I'm no zombie \\"fan\\" so perhaps I'm not the expert you should trust. I'm afraid I read all kinds of genres with ever shifting focuses. I enjoyed this. That's all I can say. I found it scary, edgy and grim, and yet oddly not tooo grim.	2005-06-21
US	50330396	R3KHG8NAJENJXV	1593073011	495838868	Conan Volume 1: The Frost Giant's Daughter and Other Stories	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Not perfect but certainly inspired	Some have complained about the lack of Robert Howard's prose in this collection. What did they expect? A series about Conan with only material written by the creator would last about a year or so of monthly books. I admit that when I heard Kurt Busiek was going to be writing Conan I was very skeptical. After all his comic writing has focused on superheroes, a subject he's admitted to be his favorite, so, him being selected to write Conan had me wondering. However, his work on Conan has been quite good. His writing has drawn deeply from Howard's prose and best of all, Howard's mood, frenetic battle scenes, bloody violence and Conan's well known vigor and indomitable passions. These stories are far better than those written by other other popular writer like Robert Jordan. While Busiek's Conan is not necessarily Howard's Conan in the pure literary sense, how could he be? What Busiek has managed to do is make his take on Conan come from his own perspective as if he entered Howard's world and reported on it. That makes his efforts sincere, more true to the source and at the same time make it his own while remaining as true as possible to Robert Howard's own vision. This is the only way to write another person's characters. Sure I'll take Howard over Kurt Busiek any day but that's how it should be. Busiek is not replacing Howard, he trying his best to elaborate on his ideas, taking them a little farther than Howard had the chance to. So far this is a far cry from some of the other Conan projects in that rather than rely on recognizable cliche's Kurt has made an effort to actually do as close to Howard as possible. <br />The art is a rare mix of technology and good old drawing skill. This hybrid of pencils and digital \\"paint\\" is, so far, pretty impressive and very consistent with moments pure artistic grandeur. Sometimes there is an unfinished aspect to it but the mood and the pace and the settings are marvelous. Conan himself is portrayed very well, kind of a mix of Frank Frazetta, John Buscema and Michael Ploog all rolled into one. Cary Nord is spot on in his emotional and powerful depictions of the young savage trying to make sense of the world of civilized men. <br />I hope they can keep this pace going.	2005-04-18
US	50330396	RHOMDKTCPWPAC	0916397637	879676791	Fear Of A Black Marker: Another K Chronicles Compendium	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just give this guy a read	My good friend, a comic shop owner, gave me his signed collection of \\"Keef's\\" first collection. I remember Keith wandering around the San Diego Comic Con wearing a paper mache' head of his comic character which was, of course, himself. He was having a blast. His strip is full of good belly laughs and his poigniant take on contemporary living is bare bones hilarious. He can be considerably less than tactful but then so is life. So, do yourself a favor and buy his books, all of them. So what if he has brown skin. Who cares? Just dump the \\"race\\" crap. His life is full of the same triumphs and disappointments as the rest of us \\"white\\" folks. That's the key; he's clearly in there with the rest of us just struggling to make his life make sense even when it's obviously, often senseless, to no fault of his own. To have to make that point is pretty obsequious in itself. <br />You don't have to fully agree with his take on things to get the points he's making. <br />And....best of all, he's funny! <br />	2005-04-16
US	50330396	R3P3N26P6EEDQN	091639767X	775505730	The Passion of the Keef: The Fourth K Chronicles Compendium	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wish the ol' Stars and Stripes paper would carry this	\\"Keef\\" is my kind of guy. He's almost completely tactless and passionate and makes me laugh at things that would normally anger me. His ability to not difuse but certainly make light of the sad state of affairs for Americans like myself is always welcome. He's raw but valid and in these days of rampant caution he's a breath of good stinky air. That is a very good thing! Rather than dance around the issues in some clever way he, instead, fully engages the same concerns and ironies that spatter my life with inane stupidty. I've come to rely on his wit and candor and since I live abroad his collections are the only means I have to appreciate his cunning and caustic sense of humor. To top it off his observations are infectious. It's hard for me to put his book down. If you like your humor in the same vein as the \\"Simpsons\\" and \\"Boondocks\\" then this is the book for you. Seriously, Kieth Knight makes me look forward to his future collections. There is always a good dose of belly laughs and this collection may be his best one yet!	2005-04-16
US	50330396	R2IY8U3849DLUM	0785113495	374919342	Wolverine: The End	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Not perfect but certainly powerful	I'm going out on a limb and say that I was pleasantly surprised by the power of this story. The depiction of an old Logan, grizzled by a life lived too long and scarred by memories too faint for true clarity and futile searches for answers unknown to him was quite engaging. I was strung along as finally the answers began to look as though they were coming. What he recieved were more mysteries and half truths and what has to be utter frustration and sadness. This is a violent book, not at all what I expected from Paul Jenkins. His grim vision of the future is unsettling but also too familiar in the post 9/11 world of American. The artwork provided by Claudio Castellini is an odd but strangely satisfying bridge for the over the top violence to keen moments of contemplation. His facial close-ups are both images of taut expressions and languid cynicism. The only problem with this artist is way his panels fairly explode from the stress of containing the characters and their actions. My biggest complaint is once again the coloring. It's too much of a distraction. The pallet is so dynamic that even the quiet moments suffer in their lack of subtlety and glossy, bold intensities come close to ruining even the exposive action scenes. Colorist Paul Mounts needs to take a refresher in painting course. Why is it one extreme to the next with these digital colorists? I'm glad Isonove wasn't the colorist but at least he can do subtle moments well. <br />Jenkins is in fine form portraying the older than dirt Logan as he heads out one more time to confront the questions of his past. In this case he discovers family. Too bad for old Logan because his own history should have set the warning bells to clanging. <br />This was a fun read, with intense characterization, taut action and nothing like \\"The End...\\". I'm glad there was no truth other than philosophical conjecture to the title.	2005-04-01
US	50330396	R2IXAA9MOED1MT	0785116524	876661272	Loki	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Sometimes the ending just....	I haven't read a lot of Robert Rodi's comic work but what I have read sticks with me. This tale of the awesome Thor finally captured by his evil adopted brother Loki is a gem. It starts with pairing Rodi with his old artist collaborator Esad Ribic. The two of them worked on a wonderful but underrated miniseries for DC several years ago called \\"The Four Horsemen\\". Like that series there's no room for fluff and flowery prose but there is time for misteps, politics (Loki finds running things when he takes over is not any fun at all) and a lot of dramatic handwringing as well as revelations that change everything. Clearly Loki has not thought things out as well as he should have and just when he has a change of heart.... well, you'll have to read the book. <br />The artwork is gorgeous in a dark and somber way which is reflecting precisely what this story is about. Loki's perspective is not surprising but he is cunning and he is not to be underestimated. Thor, however is neither cunning nor is he  underestimated, at least not for too long, unless you get a little too busy. <br />This is a cautionary tale about the mistake of one's desires coming to fruition only to find it was more than one wanted.	2005-04-01
US	50330396	R17HM6YL2FCJUV	1930652801	350246630	1: Ante Genesem: The Prophet	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Where's the next volume?!	This story is a strong but gracious nod to the works of great old horror writers like H.P. Lovecraft, Robert E. Howard, Lord Dunsany and others. It's the story about an ancient, almost impossible discovery in the Himalayan mountains that will change the way the world views human history, indeed even the relevance of human history. This is a contemporary story about an ancient and evil history and whether the world is ready for the horror in it's past now reaching into the present. The sole survivor of the expedition which found the great, but horrible discovery is also, somehow the focus of this old evil trying to impose itself on the modern world.  <br />Written by Xavier Dorison sequential art provided by Mathieu Lauffray. This book was originally released in Europe and the creators are French if I'm not mistaken. The translation of the story is provided by Justin Kelly. <br />If you like comics like Hellboy, Conan, the Marquis or even Hellblazer this book may be for you. <br />The reason I can't give this book 5 stars is because I can't find a follow-up volume. <br />	2005-03-24
US	50330396	R2AE0Q0CZ8J5DY	1593070241	772087402	The Chronicles of Conan, Vol. 3: The Monster of the Monoliths and Other Stories	Books	3	7	10	N	N	I have to surrender	While the coloring in this book is a little better than the last one it's still too heavy handed and still obscures the line work ruthlessly, exploiting the art to serve as backdrop for overrendering yet again. <br />My suggestion is to buy the Conan Saga magazines (these came out in the late 80s and are still available to those who know how to look) with beautiful black and white line reproduction over these volumes if you want to get a better feel for why this series was such a critical success when they first appeared. Even as they too suffer a bit from bad reproduction from time to time at least the art is there to admire making the stories easier to access. What's sad about these volumes is the fact that with printing this nice and production qualities so advanced the editors had the chance to really produce some serious, quality reproductions in these collections. Also, for Roy Thomas to comment on these stories as if these were the definitive showcase for the talent that was is depressing. <br />Maybe, MAYBE one day someone will give these stories the treatment they deserve.	2005-03-12
US	50330396	R1IJ3CO2U3OSQ3	1593070233	538163865	The Chronicles of Conan Vol. 2: Rogues in the House and Other Stories	Books	2	6	10	N	N	An indulgence I regret	In my review of the first volume of these editions collecting the Marvel Comic series from the early seventies I mention how much I disliked the new digital coloring. Well, the second volume takes that a notch lower. I really hoped this volume would at least look as good as the last, bearable if not great. However this volume featuring the stories that first hooked me into collecting comics rather than just reading them goes from bad to horrible and all because the colorists took so many liberties that they muddled to beautiful line art into an over-wrought mess. It's so bad that upon trying to read it I just gave up after a few pages. <br />What were the colorists thinking? I'm not trying to insult hard work here. However, my disappointment as an artist who can't see why this was done this way is left with nothing but questions for both the colorists and the editors who allowed this to see print. I expect better from this company which I've admired for almost 20 years for risk taking and quality production when it was possible. I can think of no reason for this level of work.	2005-03-11
US	50330396	R2LUF6X5KBK1YK	0806930152	135391607	Bridgman's Complete Guide to Drawing From Life: Over 1,000 Illustrations	Books	5	3	4	N	N	It was good enough for Frazetta, Mignola, Schultz, etc	What's not to like? This is pure, old school, functioning anatomy and it is so simply explained that for the better part of a century this instructor's lessons have been in use and his books have stayed in print. When I was too young to listen I passed on these lessons, and then Frank Frazetta told me the secret to good anaotomy was contained in the books by George Bridgman. So, I took a second look.... and I've never regretted it. First I bought the very inexpensive Dover editions. Then when I saw the large hardback edition of the book featured on this page I didn't hesitate to buy it. I still use it from time to time and when instructing people in anatomy I always refer to this book first. The human machine concept makes learning anatomy very easy, from its pragmatic lessons on the function of human form to its spare, hands-on eloquence which reflects classical form. Besides all that, this is a very affordable book that no student of life drawing should be without. It's the book to make room on your shelf for, but don't pack it in too tightly. Good reference books like this one require easy removal to make its lessons easy for repeated access.	2005-03-11
US	50330396	R3R57YBJLVDKC1	1593070160	175902807	The Chronicles of Conan, Vol. 1: Tower of the Elephant and Other Stories	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Another missed opportunity	This was a decent effort but that's all it was. These classic stories of a cult comic could have been collected in a format that was larger to show off Barry Windsor Smith's struggling but dynamic art. Instead, we get the standard format comic collection. The publisher could have had extra material covering the whole creative tone of this offbeat success from writer to artist and inker (even the original colorist keys would have been nice). Instead the only extra material we get is the self-serving writer reflecting on his contribution. While he covers the creative process pretty well and gives credit where credit is due the text is still only one perspective and that's it. This volume could also have been collected in an economical hardcover edition. Maybe that'll happen one day but not any time soon. <br />Last of all are the great liberties taken by today's colorists who use their high tech coloring toys to sculpt and tone their myriad color schemes over the original line drawings. I know I'm in the minority when I criticize this but I know more than a few artists in the comic industry who are tired of these painter want-to-bes who have so little respect for the lines on the paper. They use those lines the way kids use the lines in coloring books. They add whatever they want with little, and often no consideration to what the artist is trying to accomplish with the drawn art. Ironically this is one of the better volumes in this series. I've studied art and color as an illustrator and I don't get the concept that all caucasian flesh tones intensify into dark brown hues as they head into the shadowed areas of that form. In the original versions of the comics the colorist did something very bold for that time period. That person colored flesh in shadow with a blue ink tint over the flesh tone. It was absolutely innovative and effective. This was a formal flesh color method being used in a comic book! Too bad the new folks are still in the coloring book mindset.	2005-02-05
US	50330396	R1SA34U5UFSQZ5	1401200982	342433993	The Life Eaters	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Serious, fantastic fiction	A well crafted, cautionary tale set in a contemporary time utilizing the concept of real gods, of various faiths walking the Earth and interacting with their believers. So, utopia at last? No, more like Hell on Earth. This story is well crafted from the prose by SF author David Brin, to the sequential art (with excellent color choices) by the artist/illustrator Scott Hampton. The story has a large scope with global coverage as well as a compelling tale of one man's fight to save humanity from itself by demonstrating the reasons we strive for something better, something mortal. All the usual standards, such as, \\"if we had the gods on our side we will win our wars\\" are revealed to be more than a little dubious. Even renegade gods have something up their sleeve. The very reason for their existence is a high price to pay. The first act shows how the Norse gods help Germany win WWII. This is alternative history with a cosmic twist.Once I started reading this I couldn't put this graphic novel down.	2004-05-09
US	50330396	R2MGQBD909V29G	1560973579	866911337	Adastra in Africa	Books	5	3	4	N	N	No other way to tell the tale	I have to detract from the previous reviews which focus on the the art and the story's original place as part of the over-burdened pantheon that is Marvel's X-Men comics' continuity.  Instead I want to focus on the eloquence of a story that pits miracles againt hope and reality. Miracles may save a life, a village, a world but it cannot be counted upon. People have to sacrifice in order to get what they want. That's the universal truth that brings conflict to the relationship between a well meaning goddess and those who depend upon her good works to solve their real world problems. That's all that needs to be said about this classic reminder that people have to make their own miracles rather than depend on the omnipotent powers of gods.As an aside; this story was indeed part of an X-Men story involving a mutant named Storm. Marvel's editor at the time this was meant to see print almost 20 years ago was squeamish about presenting a story that he believed endorsed suicide as a viable option to an entire village's death. In fact it's a story about real faith and moving beyond your fear and false assurances.As for the art, well Barry did extensive re-drawing to make this work in a black and white. Color would have doubled the cost and the price of this beautiful book. Barry did more work to keep this book available instead of making minor changes and keeping the book so expensive that most would not have bought it. I guess that's the thanks he gets for his efforts.As for over-drawn, again the reviewer would prefer Barry did less? Barry drew this book in a style used by great illustrators like Edward Burne-Jones and Howard Pyle. I can find no fault with well rendered images and luscious line work.To each his own.I've given this book as a gift on three occasions and the recipients all wanted to know where there was more work by Barry Windsor-Smith? I happily passed on the information.	2004-03-11
US	50330396	R2KFL9O8NG7IE5	1569719101	449677878	The Art of Hellboy	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	200 pages of pure Love of Comic Art.	Mike Mignola is the master of what not to put in a finished peice of art. While he draws loads of details with the original pencil lines as soon as the ink is applied, he buries them. What makes that technique work so well is that regardless of no evidence of the black flooded pencils the viewer knows the details are there. That masterful ambiguity is what makes the Hellboy art so creepy, menacing. From out of the shadows lurch horrors not meant for the eyes of humans. This is quirky, fun and scary without having to overwork the skilled designs and careful layouts. When I look at all the cartoony comic artists, with their minimalist leanings, and contrast them with the guys who insist on drawing every hair on a head while laying in invented overdone musculature that fairly bulges through a sweatshirt, it is refreshing to see Mignola's seeming ease and inpeccable black spotting that shapes even the things not seen, but definitely suspected, along with shambling ancient horror and explosions of combative violence in the defense of the human race against festering ancient evil.Words? In this book? My brain is full of words unread but ever present. That's Mike's other gift to me.My only question is when will we see a volume collecting his myriad other works?	2004-01-13
US	50330396	R36T2SLGFW7RD	0345461517	764534415	The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian: The Original Adventures of the Greatest Sword and Sorcery Hero of All Time!	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	It's about time!!	When I first heard about a book collecting the tales of Robert E. Howard's swordsman Conan I was very encouraged. That a noted artist like Mark Schultz (a friend of mine) had been approached to provide the illustrations I knew this was was going to be a beautiful book. When the limited edition hardcover finally saw print I ponied up the hard cash and didn't hesitate for a minute. The book is magnificent. The pure Conan tales without the stain of what passed for editting all those years ago are gone, and this is Mark's best artwork yet. Later, when he told me about the deal to get this gorgeous book released in a trade paperback, I waited, patiently. Again, I was amazed at the care that went into this new mass market edition.First up, it took too long for this to happen. Having read the old Lancer editions with the stunning Frazetta cover art I've always wanted to see the heavy handed editting by Lin Carter and L. Sprague DeCamp exorcised from Howard's original stories. I've never cared for the idea that someone can &quot;fix&quot; another writer's &quot;mistakes&quot;. It's the height of arrogance to assume such an idea and to follow through with it should be a punishable crime, especially if the author is dead and gone and consequently has no say in the matter.The other wonderful element that sets these tales apart from previous editions is the dropping of the artificial fabrication of the character's chronlogically shoehorned adventures. This was created to give Conan a linear path, so to speak, but it was not how the original readers read his tales. In this edition and the following two volumes the reader today gets pure Robert E. Howard and now has the opportunity to read the tales in the order in which they were published. This is done with profound respect to the author. This is the Conan that the imitators can't write about. In defense of Mr. Howard, why would anyone want to read the imitators over the original? Was there a better writer of the adventures ofSherlock Holmes than Arthur Conan Doyle?For the dissenters who prefer the fiddled with versions over the originals, well, there's still eBay. For those of us who've read the powerful work of Robert E. Howard without the tinkering (which it never needed to begin with) we now have Del Rey books and Wandering Star publisher to thank for bringing this version to the bookstands across the country. It's about time!!	2004-01-12
US	50330396	R2V1NTV98UYG6P	1887424717	85371224	Icon: A Retrospective by the Grand Master of Fantastic Art	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	How to improve on the original	My last review was much too long. Here's a new take: how do you improve on something as beautiful as the original Icon? Simple. Add more art, and more pages. Fill the pages from one corner to the next with more art. Put it in a sturdy softcover binding and charge less for more. If you don't know who Frank Frazetta is this is your chance to discover a master artist. Add some dazzling images and powerful designs to your bookshelf by buying this book. His work is provacative, emotional, and has an uncompromising impact on those who view it. From the primal strength of his Conan paintings to the erotic beauty of his defiant women, it's the vitality of his art that makes it distinctive.Discover Frank Frazetta with this new book.Rediscover his incredible range if all you have are his old books from the seventies.	2003-10-27
US	50330396	R23MPG6LV6C2NN	1569716900	766664545	Xenozoic Tales, Volume 1: After The End	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Back in print like the classics they are	It took a little while but Mark Schultz has hooked up with Dark Horse Comics to re-release his collection of Xenozoic Tales stories, previously published under the former comic company Kitchen Sink (a victim of the lousy distributer wars back in the mid-nineties).It makes sense that these gorgeous and engaging stories would see print again. Sporting new cover art that tells of the obvious maturity of Mark Schultz' new artistic sensibilities rounding out a beautiful package and a very affordable opportunity for people to see what they missed the first time around. The readers will watch the stories and the art change from one story to the next as Mark hones his skills which were very good to begin with. The Xenozoic age is a time after a great cataclysm drove all the humans from the surface of the Earth to hide in the very bowels of the transforming world in order to survive the trauma that was rewriting the history of Earth. Upon stepping back on to the surface of their world several hundred years later the humans discover that all the ages of the natural history of the world had merged into one. An age of dinosaurs, mammoths and men where survival was once again difficult but not impossible. In this age there are men like Jack Tenric and women like Hannah Dundee. Two sides of the same coin. Jack is a shaman who believes in the rules of the earth, the Machina Vitae. This rule dictates a balance with nature is the only way to live. No exploitation of resources and an understanding that humans must respect their world or risk another devestating global cataclysm. Dundee is a scientist and has political ties to a village, Wasoon, and her people send her act as embassador to the City by the Sea, the home of Jack Tenric's tribe. Hannah and Jack are a most unlikely pair but eventually they start to work together to forge a better future for their people and their world.These tales are a wonderful mix of high adventure and political intrigue with healthy doses of science fiction, mystery and horror elements woven into the stories. Good character driven plots keep the pace crisp and the art is among the best the comic and illustration genres have to offer, and Mark Schultz provides it all. Dinosaurs and Cadillacs are featured side by side in this wonderfully vital world of poachers, politicians and struggling pioneers.There is a second volume due out next month. Get them both and see why these stories had to come back into print.	2003-05-09
US	50330396	R1ZBEG91UHQURC	1887591192	349352903	JOHN BUSCEMA SKETCHBOOK PB (Popular Artist Sketchbook)	Books	3	7	17	N	N	For art students interest in a career in illustration only	As a long time comic reader and a big follower of the long career of Bohn Buscema I really looked forward to this book. I was disappointed. Not only was this not a great sketchbook showcase into the man's work but it was also a tepid interview. John deserved beter, deserves better. While there is some rare work in this collection you'll find thumbnails on eBay that are as interesting and for sale to own. John was an incredibly adept illustrator and comic artist who unfortunately married his work to the drawing of Conan. Conan is an otherwise vital character which through the years John almost ruined with an approach to drawing the Cimmerian warrior, thief, buccaneer and, eventually, king, with the same furry loincloth, brown tunic and broadsword that was such a pat image that it led to the casting of bodybuilder Schwartzenegger (sp?) to be be miscast in the lead role of the terrible films. John was often seen doing gorgeous doodles on the backs of comic pages he'd drawn that looked better than the finished work on the other side. This sketchbook has little of those gems and focuses on his lapsed career as an illustrator and his popular comic work. This was a terribly missed opportunity to show people not the staid, workaholic illustrator chained to a drawing table putting out work rather than creating compelling imagery. No the compelling images are still locked away somewhere. Some of his comic pages are truly gorgeous. This book showcased none of those. To be sure there are some good samples of John fluent lines and character studies as well as a few finished pieces in this volume. The shame is that it looks like the art used was the stuff he gave away as opposed to the gems he created and nurtured with loving brush strokes until they breathed, moved and danced across the panels. This man was a master in the field of sequential storytelling. This book only gives meager hints at the power, passion and grace that was the greater body of John's contributions to the medium. John deserved better. Here's hoping we get to see a volume truly dedicated to his talent at some point in time.	2002-11-30
US	50330396	R3V17TSXT2L0XP	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A delight in realistic composition.	No romance, heroism or neat plot devices. How refreshing! I read this book in the span of a few days and found it to be engaging, intelligent and somewhat reassuring. The phenomenon of the appearance of the Chronoliths (as well as the destruction they cause upon arrival) are an exotic mystery that soon fades to old news and later still a cultural revolution for all the wrong reasons. The Chronoliths commemorate the future military victories over the places they arrive by a leader named Kuin. All the while more appear regularly, destructively and more and more people see their messages as a reality yet to come. The characters are not richly textured, at least not in the obvious sense, but this is a good thing. Despite their lack of strong personality drawing the reader into the book they are convincingly rendered as people in real life rather than the caricatures of people who seem to populate what passes for popular fiction. Their might be some who dislike the fact that the Chronoliths do not remain as exotic as they're description in the book's synopsis but there is a great reason for this; smart people are figuring things out from the very start. Like true scientists they are de-mystifying and trying to bring the strange down to earth. I found this angle to be very realistic and encouraging. The lead scientist, Sulamith Chopra, is a quirky woman who applies the scientific method as well as wielding a new theory to expound on the elements which are so alluring to those who look to the Chronoliths as guides to the future they believe to be inevitable. The man telling the tale, Scott Warden, is inextricably linked to the Chronoliths, as are several others. His life is not heroic (or particualrly special), but he does have keen insights which make him a good observer and more objective than then those reactionaries who need answers, today, or conform to whatever is convenient. He's a smart guy but no savior/savant. All he really wants is to be a family man after a youth spent pursuing shallow goals and blowing his first marriage by endangering his daughter to the hazards of living poorly in the third world Thai beach community among other restless expatriates. Leaving out a lot of the details is my way of hoping you'll read this book instead of coming away from this review thinking you've got the story. Is it worth a read? Here's hoping you think so because I really enjoyed this book and it's characters and situations.One unique side affect that came after reading this book is that for the first couple of weeks I looked at friends and family asking myself which of them were potential &quot;Kuinists&quot;?	2002-07-14
US	50330396	RTIHV8YEY4SMY	0345431251	744808302	The Art of Star Wars, Episode II - Attack of the Clones	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Why doesn't the movie look as inspired as the book?!	This book should be absolutely a must for art students, directors (especially art directors), illustrators, designers, fantasy and science fiction readers, writers (current and future) and visualists of all genres and mediums.While the movie looks pretty good these ideas in sketches and designs and character studies-as well as full production scenes-are more inspired and potentially more appealing than the film ('potentially' because most artists and art students will get this more than most people who just watch the movies).Some of the technical work while well designed is a bit flat. Even that is a small nitpick. This book is a well researched view into the behind the scenes ideas that make the visual essence of the film. I don't think a person even needs to like the Star Wars  stories to enjoy this book on a visual level.This hardback edition is a beautiful addition to unique coffee table books. It's a blast to browse through all these artists' heads as the ideas of forms, lines and color spill out onto the paper, boards, canvas and digital screens.The compositions contained within these pages are wonderfully inspired, strange and mythic.	2002-06-07
US	50330396	R1OCQXO3AOC0YZ	1560974567	125773862	Blackmark	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The first, and still the best of it's kind	The first thing to note is that this is not just a glorified kid's comic. In fact it was not created with kids in mind at all but adults who wanted to grow out of comics or adults who never cared for comics. It was a sad day when Gil Kane passed away two years ago. Besides the original Blackmark novel that was released in 1971 his career never amounted to his own expectations. Even \\"His Name is Savage\\" was a disappointment due to low distribution. Gil did not want to be known simply as a good comic artist and sequential storyteller. Well, at long last, both of the only Blackmark stories written and drawn have been collected into one trade paperback volume for the first time in the story's history. In the magazine reprints these stories were cut up to add more volume to the pages and bring down the page count. There were also mediocre bits of fill-in art provided by Gil in an attempt to hold the sequences together. Now this wonderful science fantasy graphic novel has been collected to show just how far Gil Kane was ahead of his time. The story and illustrations work seamlessly to tell the epic tale of one man's rise to power, and the challenges he faces trying to unite a world now torn apart by a cataclysmic war and the following, ruthless, feudalism maintained by selfish lords and wandering bands of warriors who maintain a stranglehold on the surviving population. This is a powerful story by Gil Kane who provides the art and the story concept which was scripted by the late and incredibly talented Archie Goodwin. Archie was the early editor of Warren publications, Marvel's Epic line editor, and finally DC's Batman writer/editor. Together (though Archie was brought in pretty late) these two men made a sincere effort to elevate the comic format beyond it monthly serial, soap opera continuity as well as bringing the graphic elements up to be compared with best of the golden age of magazine illustration. Sadly, this effort, released in 1971, while not entirely overlooked, was ignored by many due to the lack of promotion within the industry and outside of mainstream comics. The first half of this current book was released as a standard format paperback. It was an odd duck with no real place on the book rack or the book store and wasn't easily catagorized. Like most things wonderfully unique, the people responsible for getting the news out just didn't get it. Now the old book is a collectable. This collection, the very first real graphic novel, is back in the book market. It is a beautiful hybrid of graphics and prose. The story is a mix of various legends from the immaculate conception to the Arthurian myths all bound together in a world forced to reverting to desperate survial. The characters are human, not superheroic. The setting is exotic and dangerous. The world is looking for an opportuity and Blackmark may be it's last. Gil Kane's angular, lean and powerful art is perfectly suited to this story. Please, don't miss this opportunity to enjoy a gorgeous book and a glimpse of what sequential storytelling can be.	2002-03-12
US	50330396	R2XME31V2Q8R9U	1569716102	369011	Hellboy: Bones of Giants	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Horror, action thriller	Christopher Golden has taken the wonderful characters, Hellboy and Abe Sapien to the frozen north to deal with Nordic legends and horrors who refuse to stay dead. In his second opportunity to put prose to these otherwise graphic characters, Golden has made the text richer with the frigid melancholy, desperation and dark night horror. He's not Mike Mignola, but that's not a bad thing. His descriptive qualities and pacing are well suited to Mike's paranormal investigators. I've never read such violent yet stirring renditions of the age of the great gods of the north. In bits that rush dizzyingly onto the pages, the death of an ancient world is replayed, while Hellboy tries to fit together the pieces of an ancient puzzle to solve his, and the world's, current dilemma. The horror is gripping and the threat is colossal.This is a fun book but it's also good fireside tale of legends, battle and the price paid as the result of petty greed. Once again Hellboy is up to his goatee in trouble. This is not the first time but it's certainly a different set of circumstances and they weigh heavy on him. He's come to expect that.	2002-02-25
US	50330396	R1PTVWBQ2661F4	1887424628	956926601	Testament: A Celebration of the Life & Art of Frank Frazetta	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	I wish this was not the last volume	Cathy and Arnie Fenner have done a marvelous thing. They considered the longtime followers of Frank Frazetta's art and gave them a gift of rareties. This last volume has more of Frank's obscure work than either of the previous books in this series. Obscure does not mean &quot;bad&quot; or &quot;unworthy&quot;. Obscure in this case means more creative range and less commercial recognition. Page 107 is a perfect example of what I mean. I can't even describe the plate other than to say it's a fantastic horror composition without a monster in sight. From western to horror, erotic to fantastic, this volume is the best of the three. The commentaries from the various artists is also a nice touch and shows the respect that Frank and his work has established. I'm particularly fond of the words written by Michael Kaluta. All the comments and essays complete the image of Frank, his career, his art, influence and friendship. My pet pieces are on pages 40 (Warrior of Llarn), 45, 73 (it boggles the mind that he repainted this and refers to the original, as it's presented, as a piece of crap!), 105, 107 and 114. Frank Frazetta has rendered images from a rich pallet of differing themes and subjects. For his critics who are fond of lambasting Frank as a painter of fat women and barbarians, this volume should put the final nail in their coffin full of misinfomation. The burial of such rampant subjectivity should give rise to his critics' giving in and taking pleasure from the vital work of this artist.<BR> I wonder if a fourth volume is possible?<BR>One last thing. The selection for the cover art was not a standout choice, but the selection for the art used on the endpapers was marvelous.	2001-10-25
US	50330396	R2IV0QX3QCO2RX	034543076X	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Speculative hard science fiction, WOW!	This story left me in awe. I'm a reader of adventure fiction with the occasional science book and biography thrown in for good balance. The reason I read adventure is because I'm inspired by the great courage, greed (while I don't admire greed, I respect its ability to motivate people) and the need for humans to climb over the next mountain range, or cross vast oceans to places unknown. The human species has wandered all over the planet and settled into every corner of it which could support life. The next steps are the oceans and space, and these places present numerous challenges for the explorers. Because of these challenges I like speculative fiction and science fiction as well. It takes a good imagination to overcome obstacles and Spec. and SF offer some of the best imaginative minds in contemporary fiction. I related to the lead character in this story. I admired the entrepeneurial spirit of failed astronaut Reid Malenfant. Like myself, he was frustrated with the lack passion in the NASA administration and it's need to control space. Malenfants' passion with space travel led him to an unusual but oddly satisfying conclusion. As I read the last ten pages I was dazzled, sad, determined and joyous by the time I reached the very last line of this book. This was not a perfect book. On the other hand, it was a very satisfying read. The characters were not as richly portrayed as they could have been but ultimately they weren't the stars of the book. The focus was on the human species as a whole and the setting was the vast possibilities of space-time. Focusing too much on the characters, for me, would have taken considerable time and the pace of the story would have suffered for it. I sympathized with the characters as much as I needed to and felt for them in their various situations. What more could I ask for? Nothing.I'll be buying the next book, &quot;Manifold: Space&quot;, as soon as I catch up on some other reading.	2001-05-24
US	50330396	RZJNKUMXATLAB	0671793349	303564375	The Dogs of Winter	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A book about...surfers?!	I read Kem Nunn's previous novel &quot;Tapping the Source&quot; and thoroughly enjoyed it. It wasn't &quot;my kind of novel&quot; but I still scarfed that book down. It also gave me a nice appreciation for the surfing mentality. I found &quot;The Dogs of Winter&quot; many years later and gave it a try. Kem's ability to draw me into the novel is disturbing but admirable. I can't begin to understand the motivations of the characters in the beginning, but as I continue to be drawn into the novel and its characters I find that their stories are not so different from those of real people I know. I relate to the characters on a gut level which tosses aside any differences I have with them. Before long I'm eager to see what happens regardless of the fundamental lack of shared philosophy, lifestyle or motives. Too top off the good characterization Kem Nunn has a real understanding of the environment he's writing about. From the knowledge of surfers and their mindset to the region and the climate they challenge, I really feel like I'm walking the shores of the Northern California Pacific coast. It's a scary place with its extremes in weather but also full of beautiful detail and wonder. This guy can cook. I've never had a big interest in surfing or surfers, however, just like my experience with his previous novel, by the end of this book I'm almost ready to jump on a board to try my hand in the numbingly cold waters of the north Pacific. Luckily the sharks and the huge, deep Pacific waves are there keep me out of the water. Did I mention that I cramp easily?	2001-05-24
US	50330396	R2TWP9UIODEDQH	0823016366	292564694	Fantasy Art Masters:  The Best Fantasy and Science Fiction Artists Show How They Work	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Too little and without promise	When I first recieved this book I was very disappointed. I've gone back to the book on a few occasions and I've come to the conclusion that, for me, it's decent enough. Some of the work in here doesn't come close to being considered masterpieces. While some of it is very good (Brom, Alan Lee, John Howe and Rick Berry particularly look good) some of the other work looks contrived and uninspiring.I'm not going to lambast the artists who created the work I didn't like. There's no point in being rude and I respect that these artists may very well have labored sincerely at their craft. Some of their work was even decent. On the other hand, I have to ask myself if they were the person on the street would they respond to images that look like spliced photos of leather clad fetish inspired fembots with what looks like gun barrels (?) for heads? I had to study that piece to make out that they were female even as they they had the basic scrawny model physique.  While some of the work I didn't like communicated ideas I could relate to, others married the shocking with visuals in attempts to call itself art. Sensory response can be achieved by kicking a dog, however it's not likely to be considered art.Too make matters worse, while some of the work is graphic it's also over-stylized. If fantasy, as it's known to be, can be shocking (or just disturbing) as some of this work is, than once again we reduce the form to the lowest common denominator. &quot;Wow! This is so cool.&quot; &quot;Why?&quot; &quot;Cause I never saw this before.&quot; Is fantasy art be lowered to that most contrived form of visual impact that is called &quot;conceptual art&quot;? Please, count me out. Even worse is the fact that, for me, the unusual pieces were later viewed as just tacky and even later, boring. That's where I use the &quot;contrived&quot; label. Most of the other digital art was nothing short of boring even as it was unusual. What's the point of being unusual if it's still boring? Most of thetraditional paintings were all right but, again, some of it was boring. What was the point the writer and editor were trying to highlight? In conclusion, there is some very good work in this book but there are also some works that left me wishing for straight up paintings and drawings again. The digital age has promised a lot and delivered very little. And none of it has inspired me to buy a print, frame it and display it. I'm still hopeful that it progresses beyond what's presented here.	2001-02-11
US	50330396	R391HRIQ4YLHW4	1569713367	357564268	Elric: Stormbringer	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Gorgeous!	This is a sumptuous feast for the eyes. Stormbringor has been adapted in a grand form by one of the comic industry's finest storytellers. P.Craig Russell has never delivered a more beautifully and well designed project in  his entire career. Stormbringer is the last of the Elric tales, for the  sake of continuity, and he's in fine, tragic form. This adaptation is very  close to the novel and it's Russell's patience with the sequential form and  his love of the source that shines through. The package is very well done.  Good quality paper, cover stock (and awesomely rendered cover art) and  wonderful coloring makes this book stand out among what's been passing for  graphic novels. In short, this is what a graphic novel should be. I read  Stormbringer in my 18th year and loved this ending of the tragic Elric  saga. Russell's adaptation is a fine way to read it for the first time, or,  the last. Enjoy this one. It's a rare package and well worth the price of  admission. Books like this one are the reason I'm still reading comics in  my middle age.	2000-05-21
US	50330396	R3LIIBT1XAJNKQ	1569713499	695074754	Hellboy: The Chained Coffin and Others	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A word of praise and envy	I've heard and read reviews of this book that seemed to come from the outside. The &quot;outside&quot; being people who are trying too hard to legitimize something that makes no excuses for itself. Hellboy is and  always has been a quirky, dark, gothic adventure that is visually stunning  as well as primal and disturbing. This collection is an intriguing effort.  It has no complete story to tell. Rating each story is futile since the  themes vary as well as the design and purpose for each story. Some are an  excuse to show Hellboy in an outlandish conflict while others have moments  that touch me to the core so profound is the effect of specific sequences.  There lies the surprise. No solid premise is present in these little  stories. They're like a sketchbook. Some rough ideas are presented as well  as finely crafted &quot;images&quot;. Every one was written and drawn with  a purpose but there's no effort to weave them together in a sequence. The  tone in a story like The Chained Coffin is so different from The Corpse  that, other than the main character, they share little in common. However,  even as they share so little in content, they both speak of a world in the  shadow of our own. The world Mike Mignola has created is as sharp as a  knife blade cutting across your palm and as subtle as the wings in the  night. So eclectic is this collection that it is the perfect introduction  to Mignola's creation, Hellboy. Hellboy is brusque, loyal, funny, profound,  conflicted and committed. He is all of these and more while uttering few  words between blasts of combative, bloody, violence in a nighted world of  ancient evil and devious purpose. I wish more writers could do so much with  what, sometimes, appears to be so little.	2000-01-05
