US	50346919	R3T6OCU7MZD1AU	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Laugh out Loud Funny!	At last a book which is really, actually, laugh out loud funny! Its even funnier than the movie!<br /><br />Its heartbreakingly funny to read about Bridget's days - her inner thoughts (Which are always so ironic, funny and so very true...this is ultimately what makes them funny after all) Women will find a kindred spirit in Jones. The witty comments she writes in her diary are a real gem as we seea year in the life of  \\"30 something and  single\\" Bridget. And the best thing is that she writes all about it day by day. HAr life is hard because she is single and her watch is going tick tock tick tock -most of her friends need a bit of tact too \\"hey bridget and how is your love life going?\\", her married friends keep inviting her to dinner and asking about any boyfriends. She has this fearful image of living alone all her life and then dying alone and ultimately being eaten by her alsation.<br /><br />We can feel her elation when something goes as she wants \\"Yesssssssssss! yes!  yesssss!! lalalalala\\" and almost invariably  they turn into a huge disapointment and despair \\"Where? how? Why why why????....oh sod it!!!\\" But she can cope with it you know...she has lots of inner poise...lol.<br /><br />Also hugely funny are her comments after her daily suming up of how many units of alcohol she has drunk, calories consumed,cigarettes smoked and other various mindless obsessions that Bridget acquires throughout the year.<br /><br />she has such funny and insane theories of how she could have gained weight overnight... maybe food \\"could react chemically with other food, double its density and volume and solidify into every denser and heavier hard fat?\\"<br /><br />If you want to read a really funny book than do buy this one. You are in for a threat. :)	2005-09-20
US	50346919	R388AOIPZP8NVF	0515117269	725929824	Secrets of Midnight (The Man of My Dreams Series Book 1)	Books	4	58	63	N	N	Tender, heartwarming romance	If Lord Donovan Trent had his way, he would spend his days carelessly wooing the women of London society. Instead he found himself banished to the English countryside of Cornwall, forced by the decrees of his father's will to run his family tin mines and find a country bride.  The last thing the handsome lord needed was a local lass sticking her note into his affairs, but that seemed to be exactly what Corisande Easton had in mind..<br /><br />Corie had spent her whole life struggling to help those less fortunate than herself. When she heard that Lord Donovan had arrived in Cornwall she seized the opportunity to congront him about his family's mistreatment of the overworked tinners. Donovan and Corie soon found their tempers flaring while fighting to deny their fiery passions - until a secret business arrangement forced them into each other's arms... (Text taken from book's back cover)<br /><br />This book is great. The romance between the two main characters is, in my opinion, one of the best romances i have ever read. There is such chemistry between the two protagonists.I absoltuely love the tenderness with which Donovan treats Corie who, although at first appears to him to be an ill tempered woman, he quickly turns very protective towards her. Corie has a scar on her cheek and because of this she feels ugly. She is hurt b y other people's comments about her scar, especially because htey have no idea how she had got it. Donovan quickly turns exptremely protective towards Corie, even though at first she continually snaps at him and their tempers clash. For him, Corie is beautiful and he never lets her scar marr his attraction towards her, he barely even notices it. There are some especially tender scenes in this book that are still some of my all-time favourites.<br /><br />If you want to read a book where the two main characters's relationship totally engages you then buy this one. You will nto be disapointed. Its got everythign a good romance should have - beautiful romance, some mystery and also some humour (some of the arguments between Corie and Donovan are quite hilarious) The sequel to this book is My Runaway Heart - also a very beautiful book.<br /><br />Its  really a pity that Ms Minger is not writing books anymore...beautiful romance, some mystery and also some humour (some of the arguments between Corie and Donovan are quite hilarious) The sequel to this book is My Runaway Heart - also a very beautiful book.  <br />Its  really a pity that Ms Minger is not writing books anymore...	2005-08-17
US	50346919	R2GV2TGPRFDW3V	0671034022	378094364	Mercy	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Hmmmm...I don't know....	Mercy is my first contemporary romance by Julie Garwood. I just love her historicals with her funny and quirky heroines and tough looking but,ultimately, soft heroes and I hoped that this book would also succeed for me.<br /><br />I cannot say I did not like this book. Both the hero and heroine are quite likable with some endearing traits and there are some quite sweet and funny scenes. The romance is quite well developed too. However there seems to be something missing for me.<br /><br />THE STORY<br /><br />We have Michelle Renard a beautiful surgeon who meets at a party handsome Theo Buchanan who is a Justice Department Attorney(sadly we recieve almost no physical description of him, apart that he is handsome and with a very nice physique) Her meeting with him is quite unconventional as he is struck by acute appendix and vomits all over her new armani dress. ( a dress which she barely could afford btw!!) Talk about making good first impressions ;)<br /><br />There is also murder involved in the story but no tension or mystery at all because we are told immediately who the killer is. In fact several chapters are dedicated to the killer and the gang. Even though there was a killer in this story I never actually felt that the two main protagonists were in much danger at all. I simply failed to feel any tension at all. There is also a host of secondary characters which ,though likeable, did not improve the book for me.<br /><br />What did not quite ring for me is that as a romantic suspence it is quite bland although the romance is sweet. When I purchased this book I was hoping that Garwood's characters here would retain some of the quirkyness her historical ones possess. I was quite disapointed to find this was not the case. Although I would not dismiss any contemporary romance by Ms Garwood I sincerely hope she does not stop writing historicals because I believe she really excels in them, whilst there are several good contempary romance writers around.	2005-08-15
US	50346919	R1LKXGE1J7XSF7	0440237610	461226634	Code Name: Princess	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Code Name: ENOUGH!	Another of skye's latest Navy Seals books. Follows almost the same formula of her previous ones. Strong  generic dark haired hero recuperating from previous wounds who meets with tough and feisty heroine.<br /><br />This one follows Code Name:Nanny and now the story is about Jess, Summer's sister. Whilst the previous book was 417 pgs this one is a mere 256pgs. However in this case at least that's not a negative factor because the former book was quite dragging and also had 2 romances going on. Here at least the story is all for the main protagonists..<br /><br />Oh yes.. the story...we have the typical hard-edged SEAL (Recuperating from bad injuries in his ribs) and who has to do a very important mission and who meets Jess on the way and mistakes her for the enemy at first..(I have no idea how he managed to) and the way they meet is a carbon copy of the way Summer and Gabe meet in the previous books (talking about original ideas huh) In fact originality is null in this book which follows the usual Skye's SEAL formula.<br /><br />I will not tell you not to read this book. Because  there is a chance  you will like it  especially if you have not read any of her  previous Navy SEALS books. But frankly I've had enough of always reading the same things all over again and I'm almost thinking of giving up reading any of Christina's Skye's coming books if she keeps on hanging to these story lines.<br /><br />I want the Draycott series back!!!.... or at least something new.	2005-08-15
US	50346919	R1XIAYT0UWOFNP	0440237602	695670962	Code Name: Nanny	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Code name: Dragging	I feel like a traitor writing a bad review for a Christina Skye book. Ever since I first read \\"The black Rose\\" years ago I have been an avid fan of ms Skye -enjoying most of books.  Her historical romances were terrific (too bad she is not writing them anymore) and her Draycott Series was also great.<br /><br />Lately however Ms Skye keeps offering us \\"Navy SEAL\\" stories. And you may ask -so what is bad about this? Nothing at all. In fact I enjoyed quite a lot her first SEAL book (I think it was Going Overboard) I also read all the following ones (My Spy, Hot Pursuit, Code Name: Princess and this one)and I realized that they all follow the same formula and believe me...after a while this DOES get dragging!<br /><br />I'm quite tired now of reading about heroes who are  typical Big Jim look alikes (never described very well btw  -we just know they have dark hair and either blue or grey eyes and fantastic physiques) who are always the strong silent type,  and all with terrible past scars and present injuries which they are trying to take care of (and hide from everyone else, in a strong manly fashion) not to mention that they are always perfect - and can do ANYTHING!<br /><br />At least, the female protagonists of The \\"SEALS\\" series tend to  differ from one book to another. (always tough and feisty  however and I have to admit I do not find them always likable) But ultimately its the heroes whom I barely cannot stand anymore!<br /><br />THE STORY:<br /><br />What is worse in this book is that we have 2 different romances going on. The one between the (supposedly) main characters -Summer and Gabe, and the one between Cara and Tate (Secondary characters whose romance  gets more attention  than the primary ones in this book)<br /><br />We have Summer who is an FBI agent and who has to pose as an undercover nanny  for Cara's children because she (Cara) has received some threats. Then we have Gabe (who is recuperating from \\"devastating\\" injuries and still suffers some knee trouble) who agrees to do a favour for a friend (Tate) and agrees to protect Cara and her children (also undercover).<br /><br />Now if you have read any \\"SEAL\\" books by Christina Skye I'm  pretty sure you will be able to conjure the rest of the story. Suffice to say have to deal with some past scars, dangerous moments a  separation and a long coming reunion)<br /><br />This book  is way to long and dragging. (417 pgs )and the ending is REALLY dragging and by the time I got to the end of the book I had lost all interest and skimmed through the last 57 pages of the \\"epilogue\\"<br /><br />My final and personal plee to Ms Sky is to please try to think about a totally  new story line now (enough with wounded SEALS and army/navy men)I guess after 5 books and another one coming one should try to think about some novel ideas. Probably I will still  buy Code Name:Baby (even though I have an awful suspicion it will be again of the same formula) but  I will only do it  because I still have faith in Mys Sky's resources.trouble) who agrees to do a favour for a friend (Tate) and agrees to protect Cara and her children (also undercover). <br /> <br />Now if you have read any \\"SEAL\\" books by Christina Skye I'm  pretty sure you will be able to conjure the rest of the story. Suffice to say have to deal with some past scars, dangerous moments a  separation and a long coming reunion) <br /> <br />This book  is way to long and dragging. (417 pgs )and the ending is REALLY dragging and by the time I got to the end of the book I had lost all interest and skimmed through the last 57 pages of the \\"epilogue\\" <br /> <br />My final and personal plee to Ms Sky is to please try to think about a totally  new story line now (enough with wounded SEALS and army/navy men)I guess after 5 books and another one coming one should try to think about some novel ideas. Probably I will still  buy Code Name:Baby (even though I have an awful suspicion it will be again of the same formula) but  I will only do it  because I still have faith in Mys Sky's resources.  <br /> <br />	2005-08-15
US	50346919	R2MBUKEK3IUYC0	1557735778	783945944	Western Winds	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Western Winds	Lacey Garrett was raised to fight for what she believed in, and to never surrender. When she inherited her father's sprawling Texas ranch, the Reina, she was determined to run it on her own - despite the many men who wanted both Lacey and her land. But a deep secret she was unaware of threatens her dream!<br /><br />Rafe Parrish shattered Lacey's defenses with his piercing eyes and arrogant manner. Beneath his teasing bravado was a man of dark secrets and hot blooded temper. He came to the Reina to claim Lacey and he would have her, one way or the other.<br /><br />Now Lacey must fight for what is rightfully hers - or succomb to Rafe's hungry passion, beyond all reason and all control!	2004-08-16
US	50346919	R111X1DZA96BKM	0843934700	215153999	Rapture's Mist	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SPACE-IAL :)	Dedicated to preserving the old ways, Tynan Thorn had led the austere life of a recluse. He had never laid eyes on a woman until the ravishing Amara swept into his spartan bedroom to change his life forever.<br /><br />Daring and uninhibited, Amara set out to broaden Tynan's viewpoint, but she never expected that the area he would be most interested in exploring was her own exquisitely sensitive body. Nor did she guess that his lack of experience would be more than compensated by natural talent.<br /><br />Master of self denial and mistress of sensual delight, Tynan and Amara were a study in contrasts. But as their bodies united in explosive ecstasy they discovered a whole new world, where together they could soar among the stars.<br /><br />Original and steamy romance! if you can grab a copy i suggest you read it!!	2004-08-16
US	50346919	R3HMTB3BIWJKX4	0505520508	188633093	D.J.'s Angel (Love Spell)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a Heavenly...book :)	D.J. Halloran didn't believe in love. She'd just seen to much heartache - in her work as a police officer and in her own life. And she'd vowed a long time ago never to let anyone get close enough to hurt her, even if that someone was the very captivating, very handsome Chris McCall.<br /><br />But D.J. also had an angel - a special guardian determined,at any cost, to teach D.J. the magic of love. So try as she might to resist Chris's many charms, D.J. knew she was in for an even tougher battle because of her exasperating heavenly companion's persistent faith in the power of love.	2004-08-16
US	50346919	RV2LS0HBG0FAF	0515124206	658743779	Mad Jack: Bride Series	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Bad Jack	The author of this book describes it as &quot;Lots of fun&quot; but forgot to continue the phrase and include &quot;for the demented&quot; because personally for me this book was no fun at all. I mean compared to some of her other books this book is really bad. I liked Catherine Coulter and i like most of her books but this one...well i regret having wasted money on this one. so boring i didnt even finish it! The main trouble with this book is the dialogue..long and silly. the characters are realy not likeable at all -jack and Grey. Grey's reaction to JAck's stealing his horse was way too exagerated and hard to believe. I would have liked to finish this book but, frankly after threee attempts i gave up because its so boring and childish. Yes childish and if you read if for yourself you will surely agreee. The author clearly tries to be humourous...but, in my opinion does not succeed in doing so. A book is not made humourous just by putting stupid dialogue and a silly storyline. I made a mistake because i chose to ignore the other reviews which were posted here and bought it anyway :(	2004-07-30
US	50346919	R3NTWDPAMMSRRS	0451406125	240839097	Autumn's Flame	Books	4	63	63	N	N	Sweet Romance	Lady Elyssa is a widow with a 12 year old son and another one on the way. She loves her son with a passion and ,after an unhappy marraige, she now wants to be left alone in peace. So, she  does not take too well the news that ,until her baby is born, Geoffrey Fitzhenry, the sherriff of the shire, has to keep her under his protection. To make matters worse, Geoffrey does not agree with the way she is raising her son, treating him as a if he was a weak boy, and thus decides to give him a new foster family.<br />Elyssa does not appreaciate this treamtent and she is not at all pleased to be forced to live under his roof until her baby is born. Besides, she finds herself unexplainably attracted to this handsome man who has such a disfiguring scar on his face. She is able to see beyond his scar.<br />Geoffrey feels himself attracted to this beautiful widow, even though he does not agree at all with her treatment of her son. He also likes the fact that she is the only woman who does not flinch when she looks at him and his scar does not seem to bother her. She is also very good with his daughter and manages to make her speak after a long time.<br />This is a thouroughly enjoyable romance where  we see love slowly emerge between two persons who have been deeply hurt in their lifes and are still wary of love. They both try to deny  their attraction towards each other at first but soon they will realize its impossible.<br />Beautiful romance and i also liked the characterization of the two main characters in the romance. This book is part of afour book series. the otehrs three are :<br />Spring's fury, Winter heat and Summer Storm.	2002-07-14
US	50346919	R2IZ49M7JLK1WN	0843945702	333064113	Ice & Rapture (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sizzling Romance	This story is about Maggie , a 25 year old independent woman who is a newspaper reporter in 1897, in the days where women reporters were rare. She wants to do big in life and decides to go to Alasca, to report on the Klodnike gold rush. On the ship to Alaska she meets Chase,a brash cowboy who also wants to build his furtune. Fiery sparks fly as soon as the two meet. The two are complete studies of opposites. Maggie is cool, and reserved while Chase is hot and brash, and sure of himself.<br />Even though Maggie detests Chase at first because of his outrageous behaviour towards, (he does not hide his fierce attraction to her), she has to resort for his help when she decides she wnts to cross the Yukon to report on the Klondike gold rush -he is the only one who can take her there. The journey there is full of peril and the adventures these two pass throughout the whole book are  numerous and awesome. The thrills keep on going until the very end of the book<br />If you like sizzly hot romance and lots of adventure than this is the perfect buy for you. I think this is one of the best Connie Mason books - actually quite detailed and sparkling dialogue with some humour scenes too.	2002-07-14
US	50346919	R2Z6DJSYSIDPCR	0449006832	724584881	Kiss and Tell (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A superb read! a 10+ read!	Wow - this book is grrrreat. Really I have rarely enjoyed reading a book as much as I've enjoyed reading this one. Cherry Adair's style is quite similar to Christina Skye's ,so if you like Skye's books you will love Ms Adair!<br />The story is about Marnie Wright, a computer programmer who had a weak heart when she was young and still has to take her pills because of her heart. Now She is tired of living a secure ,over protected life (She has a father and 4 gorgeous brothers who stifle her with their protectiveness towards her).<br />Marnie goes to her late grandma's cabin in the mountains to draw (she wants to become an illustrator)  and reflect on her life and there she meets Jake Dolan - a big hunk of a man who immediatley attracts her. However Jake very keen to see her leave his mountain. Jake has had a very bad experience with a blonde woman before and this had left him distrustful of women -especially cute blonde ones. He wants her out and immedieatley however Marnie has no intention to just get out - she immediately likes the man even though he seems eager to have her leave.<br />Her cabin destroyed after a storm, Marnie has no option but stay with Jake Dolan until the storm has passed. There she learns that Jake is involved in a very dangerous top secret military thing and his former collegues are trying to kill him. HE believes that Marnie may be involved with them and he mistrusts her -until she saves him -more than ones. The danger gets closer and things get complicated after a while and Jake has to try as best as he could to get both himself and especially Marnie out of the danger. From then onwards the adventure is non-stop!<br />If you want incredible romance, fast-paced adventure, mind-blowing sex, sharp, witty dialogue, a fiesty ,adorable heroine, and a hard bitten but soft at heart hero then look no further! This books has all the ingredients of a joy read and the good news is that this is only the first one in what looks to be a growing series. \\"Hide and Seek' is the second of the series and 'In too deep' is soon to be published too. SO what the hell are you waiting for ...go buy it! really, its worth it.<br />Ps..The cover for this book is another bonus btw. its beautiful.ide and Seek' is the second of the series and 'In too deep' is soon to be published too. SO what the hell are you waiting for ...go buy it! really, its worth it.<BR>Ps..The cover for this book is another bonus btw. its beautiful.	2002-06-09
US	50346919	R38DWP12J43P3P	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Steamy!	Another great read by Cherry Adair. This book is the second of a growing series. \\"Kiss and tell' wa the first and there is a third one 'in too deep' which is soon to be published.<br />The story is about Delanie, a responsible  kinder garten teacher  who is searching for her missing sister in a remote mountain in south America. Her sister was last seen in the company of a drug lord- Romero  and Delanie's plan was to act the bimbo, and go to where Romero lived and search for her sister.  There Delanie meets Kyle Wright with whom she had a one night stand 4 years before. Both are shocked to find each other in that place.<br />Kyle is in the middle of a secret mission and he is not at all pleased ot find Delanie involved in it. HE knows that Romero is a sadistic, and viloent man and he is worried for what might happen to Delanie if Romero gets to know her real reasons for being with him. However Delanie is too set on finding her sister and saving her to even think of leaving.<br />Both Kyle and Delanie will have to fight and struggle for their lives in this incredibly fast-paced book and fight their attraction to each other. This book is not a gentle romance and certainly not for the weak hearted - but if you want action ,passion,  a romance that never falls into a boring spot then this is the book for you. I never wanted it to end. Its like watching a movie no...its much better!<br />YEs maybe the story line is a little far fetched but thats the beauty of books - they take you to an enjoyable ride and make you dream. Ms Adiar makes it sound as if everything can become possible and you will not find it far fetched as you read it.	2002-06-09
US	50346919	RRSXZ23MEQEUM	0843936509	612498137	Sweet Summer Storm	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Charming, Sweet and funny	In an English country garden a snobbish French aristocrat and a handsome farmer plant the seeds of a desire that will iled a bountiful harvest of love..<br />Christianna has always fantasized about marrying a wealthy nobleman who can pay for her luxurious life in Marie Antoinette's court.But revolution dashed her hopes and sends her fleeing to an English farmhouse far from proper society. And the penniless girl's nightmare is made complete by the amorous advances of a farmer - a man who looks like a Roman god, but acts like a common peasant.<br />Rude, snobbish and affected, Christianna is everything Gareth Larkin despises. And he would refuse to have anything to do with her -but she's the most breathtaking creature he's ever beheld. Determind to steal the beautiful aristocrat's heart, Gareth sets out to teach her that the length of a man's title and the size of his fortune are not necessarily his most important assets. (Text taken from book)<br />If you want a book that encompasses love, passion, humor with a very likable hero and heroine than this is the book for you. In the very first chapters of the book Christianna may appear to  be shallow  and not so likeable but soon our opinion about her change as more is revealed about her and we come to understand why she has turned so bitter and we come to emphatise with her and also feel sorry. Although she has suffered, Christianna is not a pathetic character who looks for pity.She is strong, stubborn and gives a hard time to Gareth who gets angry with her easily but it is obvious from the start that he is in love with her.<br />The other characters of this book are utterly charming, and funny. The author adds plenty of humor and deftly combines humor with a passionate romance and some touch of danger too. I loved this book and i'd recommend it to anyone.	2001-06-27
US	50346919	R2XXLC5FMTPK68	0671670069	631599251	Guardian Angel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very nice book	The 'Emerald' flew across the seas, its black hull teasing the waves, its sails whipping on the wind. Abroad was the pirate Pagan -despised by the ton, whose riches this scroundel plundered: beloved by the poor, whose plight was eased by the pirate's gifts.<br />The Marquess of Cainewood vows to hunt down the pirate wretch in revenge for his brother's death.<br />But when Jade, an enchanting vision of riplling red hair and yes of fire green,appears at his door to beg desperately for his protection, the Marquess agrees to keep her safe from the villians who want her dead.Jade is infuriating, exasperating and gorgeous; caine is nole, strong willed and powerful. No woman has ever befuddled him so, nor so deeply roused his desire. But as Jade responds to his knowing caresses with an innocent, wild abandon, they are drawn into a web of treachery that will test the very heart of their love! (text taken from book cover)<br />Another charming book by Julie Garwood. A funny, sensual book. Its not really a pirate story and the mystery is one which alert reader will discover almsot immediately but still this does not detract at all from the charm of this book. As I think most of ms Garwood's heroines, Jade is an adorable clumsy creature ...at least she acts like one - she gives rise to some rather humorous situations. No real sense of danger in the book - its  an easy  and pleasant reader which most readers will certainly enjoy.	2001-06-27
US	50346919	R3O7GZM5TL3GPG	0843948167	525184008	Lady Pirate	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A humorous pirate romance	Valoree had to masquerade as her murdered brother and scourge the oceans as Captain Red. However due to new circumstances she no longer had to remain in command of his pirate band in a quest to regain his birthright. She had been named heir to Ainsley Castle but before she could become the owner of her estate she had to get married because no executer would ever hand over the estate to an unmarried PIRATE. So now Valoree becomes desperate to get married to a nobleman and become preganant....<br />Pirate romance with some funny moments. a sort of 'my fair lady' style where the uncouth, 'foul mouthed' pirate lady must be turned into a genteel ,soft spoken lady.<br />For more serious pirate romances i would suggest 'the Madien's Revenge.' But this one is okay.	2001-05-27
US	50346919	RKECT0UGJWO7M	0553563793	632645159	Long Night Moon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Long Night Moon	To the world, Sara Ivy had it all: a handsome husband, a manicured estate, the kind of ethereal beauty that drew all eyes to her. So when hard-bitten reporter Nash Audubon crashed a party to get an interview, all he expected was another run-in with a bored socialite. Instead, he got the surprise of his life. For Sra Ivy possessed an innocence that had no place in a sophisticated world of Chicago high society. Tempted to learn her deepest secrets, he followed her into the night...and in one dangerous moment discovered the real Sara- sexy, brave, and heartbreakingly defiant. She was ready to end the charade of her marriage to a brutal man, and Nash would more heaven and earth to cherish and protect her -even if it cost him his life.  (text taken from book's cover)<br />A powerful, passionate tale that will surely engross you. Fast paced with plenty of passion and action, reading Long Night Moon is like watching a movie. An original story with a different hero and a different heroine. Both have suffered very much in their life and both are embitterd by life.....	2001-04-16
US	50346919	RDMKOFNDSAD7H	044020626X	381153746	Defiant Captive	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Captivates you!	Captive to a handsome Lord whose silver-flecked eyes glittered with anger as he snatched Alexandra from the London streets. Her fiery loveliness had ignied a case of mistaken identity but now there was no mistaking Hawkeworth's naked passion.<br />Captive to her own heart when his teasing kisses unleased a woman;s ecstasy she didn't understand but craved with a wanton's desire.<br />Captive to the past which haunted them both, making her a pawn in a treahcerous game that could crush her sweet dreams of midnight passiona and wild,reckless love.. (text taken from book cover )<br />Okay this book may not be for the overly sensitive. It may be rather rough at times but at least this book is not boring. ITs a typical historical romance from the great Christina Skye and if you like her style this book will not be a dissapointed. ITs an early book and similar to the Black Rose in style (another winner). What i find frustrating is that Alexandra is not able to convince HAwke she is not his wife...that is a little unbelievable...but aside from those minor discrepanices this books is certainly great material. Its detailed, the characters explored  and full of passion, action, intricacies etc -all that is needed to make a romance one that is extremely enjoyable to read ---personally i prefer romances like these rather than overly sweet romances where the main characters fall in love at first site and face almost no troubles..etc way to boring for me!. Give me Christina Skye any time!	2001-04-16
US	50346919	RSFSTRXZ2YKHW	9994110233	880398662	Angel in Marble	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Delicious ,Sweet and Funny	Tibbie Buchanan was a heavenly beauty, yet some still whispered about her sins. Her glorius honey-colored hair wouldn't stay hidden under her bonnet. Her drab dresses couldn't hide her alluring curves. Once she'd loved a man who'd ruined healer.Now a gifted healer and herbalist, an angel to the sick, she swore she'd never surrender to passion again.<br />Life on the frontier had taught Nick MacKinnon some hard lessons. Orphaned yound, he'd left Texas to learn a ship builder's trade. Richer , lonlier, he came back to realize his dream - a sea going dynasty. And now Tibbie was part of that dream. But Tibbie had loved before, had known the sting of betrayal, the burden of shame. She would flee from love and imprisoned in the past, an exquisite Angel in Marble. (Text taken from book cover)<br />I loved this book- it is sweet  and so funny. It will make you laugh and cry at  the same time. Usually i prefer books with more action and advneture and more passion , while this one is quite milder than my typical romance reads i was not disapointed at all. You'll get hooked with the character's - each with their own unique personality. Both the main characters are precious but there's no doubt that granny and Beth will steal some hearts too. While also making you giggle regularly. Believe me, read this book -its worth it!!	2001-04-16
US	50346919	R35V34DC76LO86	0843947020	591976098	Rafe (Outlaws)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not one of her best.	Rafe Gentry is accused of murder and he is going to be hanged. At the last minute, Angela Abbot saves him by declaring he is her fiance and they are about the get married. Instead of being grateful to Angela for saving his life, Rafe actually dislikes her and thinks less of her for this (Odd guy.)<br />First of all i would like to say that i've read most of Ms Mason's books and i liked most of them. A couple of which i love and i consider keepers. Seeing all the favorable reviews on this book i was quite sure i would have another excellent read from Ms Mason but i was rather disapointed.<br />Its true that this book is packed with action and romance and some sensual scenes but what irritates me is the way Ms Mason is writing lately. She uses very simple dialogue, hurries over much of the scenes and I suspect  she wanted to finish this book quickly.What good is all the action if it is over in just a few sentences? There's no suspense at all...no real sense of danger. There are no vivid and intresting descriptions of the scenes. For example - at one moment Angela is hit by bullet - and almost immeditaely recovers with no more mention of the wound! I strongly believe this book is nowhere near as good as some of her earlier books ,&quot;My lady Vixen&quot; for example. PleaseDont'hate me for this.	2001-04-12
US	50346919	R7U50A2HKU8Z0	0380782804	497342240	Key to Forever (Draycott Abbey Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Forever in my heart!	A British earl with Gypsy blood, in his wild youth Alexei Cameron shared an extraordinary night with a beautiful stranger who vanished with the dawn. Now she is back in his life - bound to him in a chilling mission.<br />A  tour guide at beautiful Draycott Abbey and an expert on ancient weaponry,  Joanna Russel had good reasons for abandoning Alex after their  unforgettable night of passion. But she must forget her haunted past to  solve the puzzle of the lost Cameron sword - confronting dark secrets and  an enemy who knows too muc.<br />To  find their treasure, Alex and Joanna must  fulfill thier destiny, set centuries before. For the key to an ancient  mystery lies in a passion reborn ...and in a hautning love too long denied.  (text taken from Book's cover)<br />Another great romance from the Queen of  Romances Chirtina Skye. Whenever I buy her books I  am always sure that I  will love reading them even more than three times and Key to Forever  certainly does not disappoint me. The story is full of action, love,  passion , intrigue and so much more. The characters are very likeable as  all Ms Skye's characters are and they are both tortured and in need of  rescue. There is really no need for me to add much more other than that  this books,as  all other Christina Skye's books, is perfect for all of  those who like their romances spiced up with an element of danger, and full  of action blended perfectly with romance. A MUST READ!	2000-04-11
US	50346919	R3P1N9O58JWULX	0380783010	738519150	My Runaway Heart (The Man of My Dreams Series Book 2)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	MIriam Minger at  her best!	A sheltered but impetuous young beauty, Lindsay somerset would risk anything for a succulent taste of wild adventure - and Jared Giles, the dashing Earl of Dovercourt, is the answer to her prayers. A gallant and  fearless gentleman, he is rumored to be a spy -and the ideal man to fulfill  Lindsay's most cherished, unspoken desires.. BUt once abroad on a high ,  raging sea, Linsay realizes the folly of her rash actions - and the truth  about the bold hero to whom she has entrusted her love. For Jared is no  servant of the Crown, but a lusty scroundel with a dark secret and passions  that know no bounds. And Lindsay us a hostage to his dangerous will -  trapped on a sensuous adventure that will imperil her life ..and her  innocent heart as well...(text taken from Book's cover)<br />A typic romance  by great writer Miriam Minger where we have another Captive/Captor tale  just as her best style. This book is humourous and sensual and i am sure  all MS Minger's fans and every other romance lover will agree that Ms  Minger is one of the best Romance artists around. I definitely recommend  this book and i guarantee that you will enjoy every page of it, while  chuckling over Lindsay's naive antics and Jared's predicaments when it  comes to her.<br />Buy it and you wont regret it  I promise!	2000-04-10
US	50346919	R34NAGYYMINBO	0843932821	785526044	By Love Betrayed	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enjoyable romance!	When raven-haired Rebecca Carlyle agreed to become a spy forthe British during the War of 1812, the lovely young widow had nothingbut revenge on her mind - revenge for the death of her husband, who had died fighting the Americans. She was willing to do whatever it would take to see that he hadn't died in vain. Rebecca'sassignment was to infiltrate the American forced on lonely MacKinac Island, Michigan. And while she was prepared to find trouble, Rebecca never expected to find such passion in the strong arms of Beau McAllister. He was everything she'd ever wanted in a man - but he was also a devoted patriot. How could she remain true to her cause when all she wanted to do was surrender to the ecstasy she had found in the tender caresses of the ene,y? (text refer's to book's cover)<br />A very good book, in the style of Sandra Dubay where as always we find a winning combination of passion, love, deception and danger. Although i found it a bit choppy sometimes at some scenes ,and not as detailed as Ms Dubay's usual style i still enjoyed reading this book very much. Becouse its not a boring romance- its exciting and that for me is a very important ingredient in any romance. So if you manage to find this book which is sadly out of stock , buy it cause its worth it and you won't regret it. I promise.	2000-04-10
US	50346919	R1YI9RERPFGI3J	0843929367	182588195	Quicksilver	Books	5	3	4	N	N	QUICKSILVER! WONDERFUL!	When China Clairmont met Gabriel St.Jon in the rose-scented twilight of her cousin's garden, no one could have guessed they'd known each other once before, in what seemed like another lifetime. Then she had been a common  serving girl, not a fine lady in silks and satin; he had been a ruthless  buccaneer, not a wealthy Colonial planter; and the scene of their fiery  union had been a treasure-laden pirate ship, not a gracious Virginia  plantation. Like quicksilver, their lives had undergone a sea change, and  like quicksilver they would change again, leaving Gabriel to face a  hangman's noose and China to wed his most treacherous enemy. Yet, despite  the vagaries of fortune, one thing remained constant - the throbbing  passion that had joined their heated bodies and would one day unite their  yearning hearts...(text taken from Books'cover)<br />Ohhh, an other faboulous  pirate romance from Sandra Dubay, a favorite author of mine. This book has  everything - passion, excitement, danger, love.......The story is full and  satisfying involving a plot containing high seas piracy, treachery, black  magic, and so much more.<br />The two lovers will have to face countless  adventures before their love could be fulfilled. They will be lovers,  enemies and lovers again.Due to treachery Gabriel will come to think that  China had betrayed him and he will pursue her full of hate and passion for  her. Only later, when China is facing the greatest danger of all, will  Gabriel at last realize just how much she means for him, and he will do all  he can to save her....<br />I loved this book, its so exciting and no sentence  is boring. If you love romantic adventures which are also packed with  action, danger and also some wit here is the book you have to choose plus  all other Sandra Dubay's books. I DEFINITELY RECOMMEND THIS ONE!	2000-04-10
US	50346919	RA0P9AMJNW4DG	0380770369	380733820	A Stranger's Kiss (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very nice book	It s very intresting and nice book, especially at the beginningwhere we see the blossoming atraction between the hero and heroinewhose relation in based on deception. ONe cannot help but sympathise with Nicole who, becouse of an accident that cause her amnesia is as defensless as a child to Max's advances. On his part Max feels guilty of decieving MArie who thinks he is truly her husband as he swears he is and she begins to show her love towards him which he knows he does not deserve.<br />I loved reading this book and im sure you will too. Buy it and rest assured that with Shelly Thacker you are always guranteed with a wonderful read!  END	2000-04-10
US	50346919	R2XCCM28GBI9K7	0843930322	973471575	Burn on Sweet Fire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Swashbuckling	From Black Jack's pirate lair to the lush green Virginia countryside, beautiful young Robyn Tremonte wove a tangeld web of deciet. Trapped by her own lies, she concealed her identity from the rugged sea captain who had  saved her life. Then, beneath the furled canvas of a sleek merchantman, she  surrendered to ecstacy sharper than a gleaming cutlass, and gave herself to  the one man who must never know he had plundered her innocent love....<br />A  shimmering tale of sensuality set agiainst the magnificent backdrop of  piracy on the high seas...(text taken from book's back cover)<br />Wow..an  exotic book about pirates and the high seas. I have read several pirate  romances, but this one actually gives you the feeling you are there, you  can almost smell the seas..<br />Robyn is a pirate's daughter and ,becouse of  some circumstances, Court, a dashing sea cpatain, has to take her abroad ,  all the while thinking she is a young boy... She is a hellion, wild an  untamed and Court has to spend much time to be able to teach her the fine  manners of the gentry but in london she is like a fish out of water becouse  of her pirate upbringing. There is also danger awaiting Robyn, for what  would happen to her if anyone ever realized she was in fact a hated  pirate's daughter? Court's earlier disdain towards the girl gradually fades  in face of her hidden beuaty and courage ..the outcome is an explosion of  emotion.<br />The story has quite a lot of other intricacies all in the way Ms  Dubay is able to portray. Actaully if you are looking for an action packed  romance,  Ms Dubay's books are the ones you should look for. The romances  are sizzling , the action non stop. Everyone of her books is so satisfying  its a keeper even though they are rather old. I definetly recommend this  one and every other book by her you can find especially QuickSilver and  Wilder Shores of Love which are also perfect romances which also contain  witty dialogue as well as danger and intrigue combined with passion. WoW!  5 Stars. Oh Ms Dubay Where are you!ned with passion. WoW!   5 Stars. Oh Ms Dubay Where are you!	2000-04-09
US	50346919	R268V467J73506	0312972822	951578172	The Maiden's Revenge	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Pirate's Romance at its best!	I've always loved Pirate romances but unfortunately i have rarely find pirate romances who could really be satisfying. But this one is good - really good.<br />For a change the pirate is a woman and the captive a man.  The dialogue between them is witty and the story is exciting and  intriguing.Although i like Pirate romances , lately i had begun to get  bored by them becouse they always follow the same line of story - dashing  buccaneer abducts damsel etc. This time, its the WOMAN who abducts the man-  refreshing change for a start. The way Ms Fields also describes the pirate  world makes you feel almost as if you could view it - you feel transported  back in time to that roguish world of cutlasses and rapiers.<br />Seeing that  this is only Ms Fields first book i eagerly wait for her second and hope  its as good as this or better! I recommend this book to whoever likes  Pirate romances and who is also sick and tired if romances where the  heroine is always a weake spineless creature!. Here Ms Fileds certainly  does not disapoint. A must!	2000-03-30
US	50346919	RUVXD0BHMQLYM	0380400480	822913798	A Pirate's Love	Books	1	10	14	N	N	Just Plain Rubbish!	Really, i wish I had listened to those reviews which proclaimed this book as horried rather than give in to my instincts. I really HATED this book. It was simply boring, unintresting, unorignal, and I found myself skipping  through the pages. The story is simply ridiculous and I found myself  loathing the heroine and the hero and shaking my head at the ridiculous  plot. Can you believe that the heroine's maid justified the Captain's rape  of her mistress by saying he could have been harsher with her?  Can you  believe that the heroine actually had to justify herself for hating the  captain who had raped her?  Now , dont get me wrong. Usually i love  reading Pirate stories who are a little bit rough and excting but this one  was defineitly NOT exciting just stupid. This is the 4th book I have read  from Johanna Lindsay and while the others were just  so- so this one was  definetly bad. I don't recommend this book unless you really are on a  deserted island with nothing to do. Plus that i'm sure i will steer clear  from now on from Johanna Linsey's book - they are definetly not my cup of  tea and basically - once you've read one you've read them all.	2000-03-27
US	50346919	R5XJXYJGIJQ0H	0440216478	807513970	Come the Dawn	Books	4	8	10	N	N	An enjoyable book	Although I much preferred the first book of this series &quot;Come the Night&quot;.  This book was quite good too. In fact I found myself enjoying it at times. What annoyed me about it though was that I found it confusing at times - due to double identities etc and i was not sure who was who  (whether it was Devlyn or his double) and the love story in this book was  not up to Ms Skye's usual standard I think.  The fact also that the two  main characters were married even before the beginning of book  also  decreased my enjoyment of it considerably. And I'm still not sure whether  Devlyn had really lost his memory or not.<br />But all in all this is  definetly a worthwile book to read and also quite enjoyable.	2000-03-14
US	50346919	RCJIIHFERTWPW	0440208645	327920648	The Ruby	Books	5	6	10	N	N	WOW!  AWESOME!  EXOTIC!	Wow! Once again Christina Skye does not disapoint. In fact she delightes me once  again with this magnificent book. Again she proves to be the best author i have ever had the fortune to read.This is my 7 th book from her  and the first one was the BLack Rose which is also my favorite - the one  that began it all. But, to my surprise and delight i have found that The  Ruby is as beautiful as the Black Rose was.<br />Here is the  story:<br />Teal-eyed enchantress Barrett Winslow flees through the gaslit  London streets, stalked by a ruthless enemy in search of a secret she can  never reveal. And when fate tosses her into the arms of an exotic strnager,  she finds herself swept away to a brazen steamy paradise that hides deadly  secrets and forbidden passions.<br />To London's rich and powerful he is  Deveril Pagan, Viscount St.Cyr, envied by all men and desired by all women.  But in the mist-covered emerald hills of Ceylon, he is called the Tiger  Shahib, and for him the priceless, fabled ruby is only a curse, its  bloodred facets pulsing with savage powers that drive men to unquenchable  greed and women to unspeakable desires.<br />From the glittering corridors of  London's elite to the wind swept shores of colonial Ceylon, they tried to  flee their fierce fate, which throbbed in the crimson heart of the  legendary jewel....driving the lovers to stolen passion and unthinkable  evil in the sultry , tropical night.For there, only one man stands between  Barrett and the darkness...and he might just be the greatest threat of  all....(text taken from book's back cover)<br />Well all i can add to this is  that this book is so good that you never want it to end.Another great  historical romance from Ms SKye which I definitely recommend to everyone  who like passion, intrigue and action in their romances. A MUST!  I LOVED  IT!	2000-02-25
US	50346919	R3C6AXFBOLFS8F	0373970501	685460652	Defy The Eagle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great  and original historical romance!	One of the many reasons i have loved this book is becouse of its setting - the Roman empire. I have read several historical romances and this is the only one i have read about this period -it certainly is a refreshing  change. But that it is not all. The romance in this book is awesome,  poignant and so beautiful it makes you cry.<br />First of all about  the  story, since i think a review should always include a bit about the  story:<br />Stripped of her title, her palace and her possessions, Boadicea  incited her warrior tribe, the Iceni, to throw off the yoke of the mighty  Roman Empire. The Queen turned to Caddaric to help lead the  revolt and  knew he would stop at nothing to remove the Roman presence from her  land.<br />Harsh and relentless by nature, Caddaric was curiously unable to  banish the haunting image of a beautiful girl from his dreams. Then, in an  isolated glade, he met with the woman who had so bewitched his nights.  Amazement turned to anguish as he realized Jilana was a daughter of Rome -  one of the hated enemies he had vowed to destroy.<br />Her family massacred,  her home torn apart, Jilana became a spoil of war: slave to the merciless  Caddaric, whose one thought was to possess her, body and soul....(text  taken from book's back cover)<br />All I can add to all that i have already  said is that if ever you get the chance read this book and you wont be  dissapoint it. It really is great!	2000-02-25
US	50346919	R173ES9TCILNLI	0312953038	567073858	Bold Angel	Books	3	6	11	N	N	No big deal....Nothing so special about it.	After having read so many delightful comments about this book , i decided to give it a try. After all i had also read another of Ms Martin's Books which is 'Savannah Heat' which i liked very much. I was prepared to like  this book in the same way but the truth is that i didn't. I found it boring  at times. Never any real action. Never any real danger. Just when things  should be spicing up a bit the hero comes and save the heroine without  anything having occured. There is almost no real action in this book and  for me this is a great fault in a romance plus that the romance is not such  great one too. At least, i've read better , even from Kat Martin herself -  in Savannah Heat to be exact. After having read this one i doubt that i  will buy again any of her books. I wuold not call it a bad book , but just  not my style - i like more action, more thrill in a romance so that it does  not get boring.<br />I dont know if i would recommend it to anyone.It just  depends on the tastes of the readers.	2000-02-20
US	50346919	R1T6BH0WGAR9I0	0373970501	685460652	Defy The Eagle	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A magnificent read!	The thing that I appreciated most from this magnificent book was its originality. I have read several romance novels and only very few are about the Roman era. The story is extremely engrossing. Caddaric is  so harsh at first with Jilana that I couldn't help but symphatize with her.  However she has a very strong  strong character (something which i like in  romance heroines) and she certainly does not stand meekly to Caddaric not  even when he makes her his slave. Caddaric makes Jilana live some of the  hardest moments of her life but as he slowly grows to care for her we see  him change from harsh soldier to warm lover. The intrigue in this book  never lacks and only until the very end do we find out if the lovers will  finally find love together.<br />&quot;Defy the Eagle&quot; is one of the  books i enjoyed most reading. It stands in my shelf as one of my favorite  books and i would recommend it to whoever would like to read a romance with  a difference. Detail in history but eaqually detailed in romance with the  original setting of the Roman era.	2000-02-11
US	50346919	R2PSJXPJ3V8V6G	0312953038	567073858	Bold Angel	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Nothing special really.	Really , i cannot understand what was this fuss all albout!  <br />After having read the positive reviews for this book, I decided to give it a try and order it from Amazon. I also had read another Kat Martin's book  before  this -'Savannah Heat' and I had  liked it very much. So, I was fully  prepared to like this one too, but the sad truth was that...it didn't hold  my attention at all! I expected so much more but I actually found it boring  at times. Nothing really great happens in this book - no real adventure.  The heroine is never really in danger -NEVER and neither is the hero. Where  is the excitement?  The action? <br /> Okay there is a good love story but I  want more than just romance when i read a book. I also would like some  action and excitement. If there was any action in this book it was minimal,  nothing so great. I don't think I will buy another of Ms Martin's books.  While Savannah Heat had left a very favrouable impression on me, this one  sadly did not. Its not really bad, just not so good either. I don't know if  i would recommend it or know. Depends on the reader's tastes,I guess. On my  part I prefer books that are action packed , as well as wildy romantic -  Give me Christina Skye everyday and i will be content.	2000-02-09
US	50346919	R1GFJYT0873CHC	0440208645	327920648	The Ruby	Books	5	12	17	N	N	LITERALLY AWESOME. ONE OF THE BEST BOOK'S I'VE EVER READ!	How can one begin to describe this awesome book? <br />First of all  - the story is about Barret Winslow who flees through the gaslit London streets, stalked by a ruthless enemy in search of a secret she can never reveal. And  when fate tosses her into the arms of an exotic stranger, she finds herself  swept away to a brazen steamy paradise that hides deadly secrets and  forbidden passions.<br />To London's rich and powerful he is Deveril Pagan,  Viscount St.Cyr, envied by all men and desired by all women. But in the  mist-covered emerald hills of Ceylon, he is called the Tiger Sahib, and for  him the priceless, fabled ruby is only a curse, its bloodred facets pulsing  with savage powers that drive men to unquenchable greed and women to  unspeakable desire.<br />From the glittering corridors of London's elite to  the windswept shores of colonial Ceylon, they tried to flee their fierce  fate, which throbbed in the crimson heart of the legendary jewel...driving  the lovers to stolen passion and unthinkable evil in the sultry, tropical  night. For there, only one man stands between Barrett and the darkness...  and he might just be the greatest threat of all.... (text refers to book's  back cover)<br /> There that should do it to make you understand the story. I  really hate it when there are reviews who just limit themselves in saying  that the book was good or bad without ever mentioning anything about the  story. <br />One last thing I'd like to add is that, with this book, Christina  Skye has again given me more reason to rate her as one of the best (if not  the best)of romance authors today.<br />The Ruby is full of action and  excitment. From London to Ceylon, it takes us to a journey we can never  forget.  The two main characters - Barret and Deveril - have to face  several tumultous clashes before they admit or even realize their love  towards each other. I read this book in just one day, it was so engrossing  i didn't want it to end.<br />The Ruby is totally inMs Skye's style. She is  one of the few authors who can write such an exciting romance between two  such passionate characters and include all the possible ingredients to make  a novel something of a classic. The love scnes are sizzling. The action is  never ending. I would like to find more books that are written in this  style. <br />Another book i would highly recommend that is as beautiful as The  Ruby is 'the Black Rose',also by Christina Skye of course.    Well I have  already said enough. Just go and buy it, you wont be disapointed!	2000-02-09
US	50346919	R1SMSTGTRMFYA1	0440235715	852077938	2000 Kisses	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Really good	I am an avid fan of Christina's Skye's romances, in fact i have most of them, and I really wanted to read this book but the different comments about it made me slightly uneasy on what to expect.  Would be as negative  as some readers said it was or would it be good?<br />Well, finally I gave  in to my instincts about the author and ordered it and what i can say  is...it was just sheer LUCK that i didn't let those negative reviews deter  me from buying it. Becouse the truth is that this book is magic. YOU NEVER  GROW BORED while reading it. Something always lies waiting behind the  corner. Its not one of those books, one reads so many of,where the best  parts are only in the begining and near the end. In this case EVERY part of  the book is intresting and action packed. And, another thing -How could  anyone say the love story between the two characters is tepid?<br />I  would recommend to whoever has never read any of Christina's Skye's novels  to start reading them now. You won't be dissapointed. 2000 kisses is great  and i recommend it whole heartily to everyone	2000-02-09
US	50346919	R3KYTGMRGSB0ZL	0440216443	730904978	Come the Night	Books	5	36	37	N	N	FANTASTIC!  AWESOME!	Wow! Christina Skye has done it again. With her books you are always assured of a good read. And I mean ALWAYS. I have read Black Rose and the Ruby and also Come the Dawn which is a spin off from Come The Night and I  love all of them. While the Black Rose holds a special place in my heart,  being the first book i have read from Christina Skye,  Come The Night is  equally wonderful.<br />The characters are so likeable so fascinating. You end  up loving both the hero and the heroine. Silver is so feisty , so couragous  and Luc is gorgeous. The book is also quite humorous besides being action  packed and wildly romantic.<br />Well....what are you waiting for?  For  Goodness sake if you haven't read it yet go and do it now!  I assure you  you won't regret it. I absolutely recommend it!	2000-01-21
US	50346919	R8S5C6MEP3KE9	0446607975	403683339	Gypsy Lady	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Lovely.	Raised to ravishing womenhood by Gypsies - a stunning, violet eyed beauty stolen a lifetime ago from her father's Cornish estate - innocent Catherine Tremyne's destiny drew her into a world of intrigue and danger. Carried off  to Paris by Jason Savage, she began an odysee of peril and sensuous  captivity, finind no escape from her fearless adventurer who at last would  quench the fire burning in her Gypsy soul. (text refers to book back  cover)<br />Intresting book. Very readable. Yes i admit the hero is a bit  overly harsh with the heroine but this did  not detract from the pleasure i  got from reading this book. in fact it was fascinating to watch how these  two opposing characters would finally find happiness together. Literally  from hatred to love.	2000-01-21
US	50346919	R3JRY7ZIJPHFIC	0380008718	414325202	Moonstruck Madness	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Lovely story	By the day she was Lady Sabrina Verrick, exquisite belle of high society. By night she was a criminal, Bonni Charlie, the lawless highwayman whose notoriety rang the length and breadth of the 18th century  England.<br />Wounded and on the run, hunted like an animal through the night,  Sabrina's wild career drove her at last into the power of one man who was  not afriad to tame her. Brutal, arrogant, he would hurt her, betray her,  subdue her free spirit - but never admit that he loved her... (text refers  to book's back cover)<br />A very enjoyable book. Action packed and sensual  too. I really enjoyed reading it. One of the best. I highly recommend it.	2000-01-20
US	50346919	R2CTM1LSZSO2R9	0712695044	230083945	The Castle of the Winds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Spell binding -  ENGROSSING!	Poor farm-girl Mariana is proposed to by Lord Christopher StJules, and its off to the gloomy pile of Thornfalcon, where Christopher proffers exotic sex and studies the stars. But there are wierd night noises and strange  parties, all of which become nastily clear after Mariana gives birth to an  undesired daughter. Finally the distrought Marianna will flee and meet  Radu, prince of a small principality in Transylvania. Love and a hideaway  marraige - until Chrisptopher inevitably surfaces......  (Text taken from  book cover)<br />Wow this books is so...engrossing. SO original and different.  A love story but...so much more than that. Its full of mystery, passion,  danger and love. You never get a second bored while reading this book. I  highly recommend it even if it is rather dated, it is still a classic. A  must read!	2000-01-20
