US	50345651	R3IOHMEA8PWSYL	0715319906	55624644	Branch Line Britain	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nostalgic look at a mostly bygone age	In the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century, in the heyday of rail travel, hundreds of branch lines all over Britain provided a service for communities that weren't located on a main line. During the twentieth century, most of these lines closed as road transport took traffic away. A few branch lines have survived against the trends. Some have been re-opened, usually by preservation societies staffed by volunteers.<br /><br />This book takes a look at a selection of branch lines - survivors, preserved lines and closed lines. It is lavishly illustrated with great photographs of lines from when they were open as well as clues to the existence of former lines - embankments, cuttings, fencing and other features that give clues to what used to be.<br /><br />There are also various special features on aspects of life on a branch line. I particularly like the feature on camping coaches, one of which I stayed in during the early sixties. These coaches first appeared in the thirties but disappeared during the war years. They reappeared after the war and were a feature of many branch lines serving tourist destinations until many of them were closed in the sixties. Camping coaches finally became an extinct species in 1971, as those that survived Beeching couldn't survive changing holiday fashions.<br /><br />The selection of branch lines has no obvious pattern although lines that have been preserved have a better chance of being in the book than those that haven't. There were some lines whose inclusion I was particularly pleased to see. One is the Calne - Chippenham line. It closed in 1964 and I remember walking with others along part of its track bed a year or so after it closed. Others are the Fort William - Mallaig line and the Middlesbrough - Whitby line, both of which I have used and which still survives, though the threat of closure remains.<br /><br />Some lines have been preserved for posterity but there were others that might have been preserved. Of these, the Westerham line to the south of London had plenty of support but the track bed was wanted as part of a new road scheme - much of it has now become part of the M25.<br /><br />While this book is by no means a comprehensive guide to Britain's branch lines, it provides a fascinating insight into their heyday and their legacy.outh of London had plenty of support but the track bed was wanted as part of a new road scheme - much of it has now become part of the M25.    While this book is by no means a comprehensive guide to Britain's branch lines, it provides a fascinating insight into their heyday and their legacy.	2005-09-27
US	50345651	RNIUFKFYYF98G	0753813661	794626577	Can Reindeer Fly?: The Science of Christmas	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Christmas questions answered	Was Jesus born in a stable? Was the Bethlehem star really a star or could it have been a comet or another planet? When was Jesus born? Why do we celebrate Christmas on December 25th each year? What about the Virgin Mary? Who was the original Santa? Where is Santa's grotto? Why is Santa fat? Why does Santa come down a chimney? Why does Santa say Ho-ho-ho? How did reindeer, holly, ivy, mistletoe, trees, candles, gifts, logs and stockings come into the Christmas festivities? Can reindeer fly? How is snow formed? Why does ice float on water instead of sinking beneath it? Why is ice so slippery? Why do so many people eat turkeys at Christmas? Why do most children dislike the taste of sprouts? Why do most people cheer up at Christmas? Why do a minority of people always feel miserable at Christmas? This book seeks to answer these and other questions in a way that is sometimes hilarious, sometimes serious, sometimes controversial but always entertaining. Some questions cannot be answered and in these cases possible explanations are offered.<br /><br />The book begins with the controversial issues of the Bethlehem star, the birth of Jesus and the imposition of Christmas on the traditional post-winter solstice festivals. The Catholic Church wanted to do away with all the pagan festivities and replace them with religious worship but that's not how things worked out. The rest of the book (most of it) focuses on the festivities. I found the evolution of Santa particularly interesting. I'd heard vaguely about St Nicholas but here you can find out who he was, what he did and how he inspired others. When it comes to reindeer, the author is unable to explain why they became so important to Christmas but some of the funniest parts of the book are about reindeer, perhaps because it is so difficult to take their role seriously.<br /><br />One aspect of Christmas ignored by the book is music, which (in my edition) gets just two brief mentions relating to musical Christmas cards and supermarket background music. This seems fair enough, since Christmas music merely reflects other aspects of Christmas, be they religious or festive. Apart from music, every other aspect of Christmas seems to be well covered.<br /><br />So this book provides a highly entertaining insight into Christmas and how it became what it is today. If you are in any way curious about the history, the mystery and the science of Christmas, you'll surely find this book amusing while answering many of those questions that you wondered about.supermarket background music. This seems fair enough, since Christmas music merely reflects other aspects of Christmas, be they religious or festive. Apart from music, every other aspect of Christmas seems to be well covered. <br /> <br />So this book provides a highly entertaining insight into Christmas and how it became what it is today. If you are in any way curious about the history, the mystery and the science of Christmas, you'll surely find this book amusing while answering many of those questions that you wondered about.	2005-09-21
US	50345651	R1PZZ0Z74EJPMI	0233050809	832216873	Delia Smith: The Biography	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Where are you? Let's be having you!	Delia Smith is a British icon, so famous in her own country that Brits know her simply by her first name. It seems that her fame has not spread to America but it is sufficient to say here that she established her reputation as a host of TV cookery programs. She has also written plenty of cookery books. Delia does not claim to be a great cook but she has a way of explaining cookery so that normal people can understand. After becoming very wealthy, she took over ownership of the soccer club she supports (Norwich City) so, being a woman in a man's world, has became famous with sports fans.<br /><br />Delia's famous plea (the title of my review) to Norwich City fans in 2005 came several years too late for inclusion in this biography, but it proved (if proof were needed) that Delia is as passionate about her soccer as she is about the cookery that made her famous. Because of the timing of this book's publication, it only covers the early part of Delia's ownership of the club she has supported for more than three decades.<br /><br />The author wrote this book without any help from Delia or her husband. As such, this is not the definitive Delia biography but I wonder if that will ever be written because it is clear that Delia doesn't like discussing some aspects of her life, especially her childhood in Bexleyheath. Of course, Delia is entitled to her privacy but it does limit the scope of this book. It seems that Delia has good reasons for not discussing her childhood because it seems that it wasn't an especially happy time, according to Delia's best friend at school.<br /><br />Delia left Bexleyheath to seek a better future in London, sometimes doing two or three jobs at once. Most of these jobs were very ordinary but a combination of Delia's determination together with her ability to get on with people and a few lucky breaks eventually reaped its rewards. Although she had enjoyed the results of her mother's home baking, Delia began as a hairdresser. Indeed, it seems that Delia had not learned to cook as a child at all. Paradoxically, this was what enabled Delia to become so successful. Delia's policy has always been to develop recipes that are simple to follow. This endeared her to the British public but not to the culinary experts who generally regarded her with disdain even if they acknowledged her appeal. Of course, when Delia eventually took over Norwich City, fans assumed that catering would immediately improve. It didn't - it got worse initially - and those problems are covered in this book.<br /><br />Delia's rising fame, punctuated by setbacks along the way, gets plenty of coverage. Having established herself as a TV presenter, Delia was at one point banished to a late night television slot. The BBC controller made the excuse that Delia wasn't attractive. Pictures of Delia taken at around that time prove otherwise, so the controller obviously had another reason. Nevertheless, Delia showed her renowned determination and made the most of her new TV slot. With such resolution, Delia continued to overcome any problems that she encountered in life. She will need all that determination to make Norwich City a consistently successful football club.<br /><br />The author has made some mistakes here, claiming that Bill Haley was in the 1957 charts with Love letters in sand (it was Pat Boone, not Bill Haley). In the chapter dealing with Delia's marriage, she writes that Delia was three months older than Michael when they first met, but three years older when they got married. In the overall context of the book, neither of these errors matter much but it makes me wonder what else is wrong.<br /><br />This book, with all its flaws, is still an interesting read. If you are curious about Britain's most popular cook - and one of Britain's most popular soccer club owners - you can learn a lot about Delia from this book. It'll do until the definitive biography is written. Maybe Delia will write it when she has achieved what she wants with Norwich City.	2005-08-26
US	50345651	R3WPI5GWUPL7K	1550025627	115373342	Maps That Made History	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Maps and history inextricably linked	A lot of literature is available about maps but this book claims to be the first to explore the place of maps in history. The title is not entirely accurate, as not all the selected maps made history. Some of them certainly changed the course of events while others merely reflected events. As the author indicates, most maps have not survived through the centuries but the survivors provide a fascinating insight into the past.<br /><br />Perhaps the map of greatest international interest is the 1783 map of North America, drawn by the British showing the boundaries of the fledgling USA, which at the time comprised only the original thirteen states. The real fascination of this map lies is the various alternative options for the USA-Canada border that are clearly marked. For example, Wisconsin might have been part of Canada while Nova Scotia and southern Ontario might have been part of the USA. There are other aspects of this map that are also interesting but it's clear that the arguments about borders between Britain, France and Spain were long and protracted.<br /><br />On a completely different level is the local abbey map from several centuries earlier. It is essential a sketch map that would take a few minutes to draw these days but would have required great skill and a lot of time to draw in its time. It divides up the land into various plots, each marked with the name of a tenant farmer.<br /><br />Two comparatively recent London maps have a historical importance that would not have been foreseen at the time, because they broadened the scope of maps. One is the original 1933 diagrammatic map of the London Underground. Previous maps showing the routes to scale on a normal map had proved unsatisfactory. A electronics circuit expert drew the map as if it were a circuit. He originally drew the map in 1931 but it was considered too revolutionary. Eventually the management reluctantly put it on display to the public to see what they thought. They loved it and so it provided the template for many thousands of similar maps around the world. Although there have been changes since 1933, most of those have been due to changes in the actual map rather than the style. A comparison with the current map will show some stations no longer exist but many others have appeared. The Circle, Victoria and Jubilee lines weren't on the 1933 map although the northern part of the Jubilee is there as a branch of the Bakerloo.<br /><br />The other important London map is the 1899 map showing social divisions. It is one a series dating back to 1889 in which each street is color-coded according to social class. This map illustrated in stark detail just how much of London was inhabited by people struggling for survival in a way that masses of numerical statistics could never show. So it was that maps became an important statistical tool for population distribution data.<br /><br />There are many other fascinating maps covering many parts of the world including one map of Australia showing the Great River (which was thought to exist but never did) and various battle maps (the American Civil War, the battles of Waterloo and Culloden among them).<br /><br />This book shows there is a lot more to maps than just how to get from A to B, but also makes clear how important maps are for that basic purpose.it provided the template for many thousands of similar maps around the world. Although there have been changes since 1933, most of those have been due to changes in the actual map rather than the style. A comparison with the current map will show some stations no longer exist but many others have appeared. The Circle, Victoria and Jubilee lines weren't on the 1933 map although the northern part of the Jubilee is there as a branch of the Bakerloo. <br /> <br />The other important London map is the 1899 map showing social divisions. It is one a series dating back to 1889 in which each street is color-coded according to social class. This map illustrated in stark detail just how much of London was inhabited by people struggling for survival in a way that masses of numerical statistics could never show. So it was that maps became an important statistical tool for population distribution data. <br /> <br />There are many other fascinating maps covering many parts of the world including one map of Australia showing the Great River (which was thought to exist but never did) and various battle maps (the American Civil War, the battles of Waterloo and Culloden among them). <br /> <br />This book shows there is a lot more to maps than just how to get from A to B, but also makes clear how important maps are for that basic purpose.	2005-08-24
US	50345651	R1PHF2H0RD2ZY	0711223254	567672081	Gnomes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A gallery of gnomes	Gnomes were originally introduced into gardens to enhance their appearance but you can now find gardens where the gnomes, rather than the vegetation, are the focal point. In this book, the author-photographer provides an introductory text giving a brief history of gnomes before treating us to an impressive display of photographs, all in color, that clearly illustrate why so many people love gnomes. It seems that the best place to see traditional gnomes is Sweden but it is in Britain where gnome culture is strongest.<br /><br />Gnomes clearly work hard without complaint - they can be seen mowing the lawn and pushing wheelbarrows, always looking happy while going about their business. Another picture shows a gnome climbing a telegraph pole using a rope or pulley. Several pictures show them fishing while one captures the moment when a gnome is reeling in a catch.<br /><br />The author clearly loves gnomes but is perhaps less fanatical than the woman who set up the gnome reserve in Devon, England, which was the setting for a significant number of the photographs. I have visited Devon many times (though mostly long, long ago) and I've seen many of its attractions including the monkey reserve but I didn't know about the gnome reserve. The book does not give exact locations of any of the gnomes featured in the book (for fear of theft or vandalism) but if the Devon gnome reserve is open to the public, this book will certainly increase public interest on it.<br /><br />If you love gnomes, you will find this book irresistible. If not, perhaps this review will persuade you that gnomes have more to offer than you imagined.	2005-08-01
US	50345651	R359301A8WLQU6	0709074085	452861430	Penny-in-the-Slot Automata and the Working Model	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simple pleasures of a bygone age	The inspiration for the book was the machines the author played at British seaside resorts in the early 1970's. Examples of many of these machines are now preserved in museums and theme parks. Covering the period from the 1860's to the 1970's but with an emphasis on the more recent machines, this book describes and illustrates many different coin-operated mechanical devices. Some of these machines were purely for entertainment while others were marketing tools. Most of them were built on an individual basis - there was no mass market for most of them.<br /><br />The main focus of the book is on machines that were purely intended for entertainment and were generally found at seaside resorts and other tourist locations. They are based on many different themes including haunted houses, churchyards, drunkard scenes, executions, fire fighters, clowns, sailors and puppet shows among others. You put a penny in the slot and a scene based on one of these themes would be enacted. Given that these machines were entirely mechanical, it required highly skilled engineering to make them although the scenes were basically quite simple. Even the still pictures (all in color) of these machines are impressive.<br /><br />While this book is primarily about British machines, American machines are also covered. In America, the public didn't seem to go for the variety of themes that the British public liked - however, they were particularly keen on fortune telling. A chapter is devoted to these machines and how they worked.<br /><br />Entertainment, however, was something that evolved from working models set up by business as marketing tools. As an example, rail and shipping companies sometimes built scale models that stood in glass cases in prominent places in their headquarters offices or other important locations such as stations and ports. Often built by the same engineers who built the full-sized locomotives and ships, these working models demonstrated their skills to potential customers. Coin-operated locomotives in glass cases could be seen as recently as the 1960's at British stations, providing money for charity. I remember putting a penny in the slot to see the locomotive spring into life - its wheels would turn but of course it couldn't actually go anywhere.<br /><br />Vending machines are also covered in the book, though prior to the widespread use of electricity, their use was largely limited to products such as matches, gum and chocolate. It is right that examples of them are included but the early vending machines are somewhat less exciting than some of the other machines covered in this book.<br /><br />The book also covers mechanical music machines from their origins through to the early jukeboxes, though later developments are outside the scope of this book as they are powered by electricity. It is fascinating to see pictures of the early music machines, which were large, elegant pieces of furniture. Some were located in British pubs, so fulfilling much the same role as a modern jukebox. Before auto-changing mechanisms were developed, machines only played one disc, which staff had to change at regular intervals to allow customers to hear different tunes.<br /><br />In February 1971, Britain switched to decimal currency. While the pound remained as the major unit of currency, the old pennies were replaced by new pennies with a different size and value (2.4 old pennies). Millions of slot machines needed conversion if they were to remain usable. For many of the machines described in this book, it just wasn't worth the effort. If they were converted to accept a new penny instead of an old penny, the owner would be accused of exploitation. Although a halfpenny coin was initially available, everybody knew it wouldn't survive more than a few years (it didn't). So decimal currency killed off many of these old machines. Subsequent changing tastes in entertainment, as well as the increasing appeal of foreign holidays, killed of the rest - orso it seemed.<br /><br />Taken for granted by British people while they were always there, the disappearance of these machines from their traditional locations created a new wave of interest in them. Some have been preserved and such examples provide the material for this book. And some companies have produced reproduction models for collectors, providing further material for the book.<br /><br />The author acknowledges that he cannot guarantee the complete accuracy of all the information - some is based on a balance of opinion among various experts - but this is the first book to seriously cover this hitherto neglected aspect of British (and a little American) cultural heritage.people while they were always there, the disappearance of these machines from their traditional locations created a new wave of interest in them. Some have been preserved and such examples provide the material for this book. And some companies have produced reproduction models for collectors, providing further material for the book.    The author acknowledges that he cannot guarantee the complete accuracy of all the information - some is based on a balance of opinion among various experts - but this is the first book to seriously cover this hitherto neglected aspect of British (and a little American) cultural heritage.	2005-07-29
US	50345651	RJYDX1QXQ79G5	0811829634	582862079	Ernie: A Photographer's Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If that cat could talk what tales he'd tell	So sang Hoyt Axton about a cat named Kalamazoo in one of his songs (Della and the dealer), but I suspect that a lot of cats have interesting stories if only they could tell, especially Ernie the subject of this book. Now this is no ordinary cat book - most cat books are found in the natural history section of bookstores but I found this in the art and photography section. You won't get a detailed analysis of cats' behavior here but you do get some dramatic photographs showing what cats get up to.<br /><br />Tony Mendoza spent two years taking around 10,000 photographs of Ernie while living in rented accommodation in New York during the early eighties. Tony had never lived with a cat before and became fascinated by Ernie. Tony had difficulty getting his photographs published, but when eventually he succeeded, book sales far exceeded expectations. Despite its success, the book eventually went out of print and became a collectors' item. Eventually, public pressure mounted and Tony found a new publisher. This new, improved edition includes some extra photos omitted from the original book.<br /><br />The text is highly amusing. Tony expresses his own thoughts about some of the situations while also suggesting what Ernie might be thinking. What really makes this book great is that Tony clearly respects Ernie, who definitely seems to be the dominant power in the relationship. All the photos are black and white, which may disappoint some people, but the quality makes up for that. Tony's photographic instincts ensured that he captured Ernie in all his moods, making for a very interesting book. If you're looking for soppy pictures of a cute kitty, you won't find them here - Ernie doesn't seem like the type of cat to waste his time posing for such shots anyway. Ernie (it seems) likes to live life on the wild side but is very protective of his own territory. Beware any other cat or (worse) dog that encroaches.<br /><br />This book will make a wonderful gift for cat lovers everywhere but its appeal goes far beyond that substantial market. Ernie might even convince a few non-believers that cats are a lot more interesting than they ever imagined.everywhere but its appeal goes far beyond that substantial market. Ernie might even convince a few non-believers that cats are a lot more interesting than they ever imagined.	2005-07-20
US	50345651	R3GL309AGXU1OJ	1904317812	360543457	100 Favourite Racehorses: The "Racing Post's" Definitive Reader's Poll	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A new variation on an old theme	There have been many books published with greatest racehorses as a basic theme, but this one is different from the usual, being based on favorites selected by polling readers of a racing newspaper. Inevitably, this results in a different selection of horses but the journalistic approach is also a little different. I'll use Julian Wilson's excellent book (The great racehorses, which I've already reviewed) as a comparison.<br /><br />Julian's book covers the greatest horses of all time, including those from different eras (going all the way back to Eclipse 250 years ago) and different countries (you'll find horses from North America and Australia in his book). Understandably, Julian's book is biased towards horses that he has seen at first hand in Britain, therefore horses from different eras or from other countries are under-represented but such horses scarcely get a mention in this Racing Post book - that's not a criticism, just what you'd expect given the method of selection.  70 of Julian's 100 horses raced on the flat - partly a reflection of the longer tradition of flat racing and partly a reflection of the higher status of flat racing among racing professionals. The Racing Post book features many more steeplechasers and hurdlers than Julian's book, as well as featuring horses of modest ability that nevertheless endeared themselves to racing fans.<br /><br />Within the 100 selected horses, Julian's book made no attempt to rank them and gave them all approximately equal treatment. The Racing Post book, being based on a poll, has a ready-made ranking and the most popular horses get much more coverage. All the photographs in this book are black and white. Julian's book contained mainly black and white pictures but there were some colour pictures too.<br /><br />The poll was taken early in 2004 so horses that became popular in that year had no chance of getting votes while others (like Moscow Flyer and Best Mate) who enhanced their reputations that year are more popular than their ranking suggests.. However, the book took several months to prepare for publication, allowing time for a chapter to be added listing those horses (including Attraction and Ouija Board) that might have made the top 100 if the poll had been able to take their achievements into account. Perhaps a second poll could have been organized and published in this chapter but it wasn't.<br /><br />By now, you'll realize that even if you've got Julian's book or another equivalent book, you're not wasting your money buying this book. Having realized that it is about popular horses rather than strictly the best horses, I wasn't especially surprised at the 100 selected although there were some notable omissions. I was surprised but pleased to see Golden Miller here, because he raced in the 1930's - his presence is a reflection of his legendary status. I was also surprised at the inclusion of Katy Nowaitee (87th on the list), a good filly but not one that anybody would expect to see featured in a book like this. I assume that the timing of the poll, taken when she was fresh in the memory of voters, helped her.<br /><br />Among those that were selected, it was no surprise to see that four of the top five horses are steeplechasers and the other is a hurdler. Arkle, Desert Orchid, Red Rum, Istabraq and One Man all spent several years racing, building up their popularity with their exploits on the racecourse. As my favorite flat horse has always been Mill Reef (who ranks 13 in the list), I was a little surprised to see that the highest-ranking flat horse (at 6 in the list) is Brigadier Gerard, but I'm pleased that both of the 1971 2,000 Guineas rivals linger long in the memory of so many racing fans.<br /><br />Brits sometimes like losers too, hence the inclusion of Amrullah (at 92 on the list). The book is a little unkind to him, saying that he had a semblance of ability. As I remember Amrullah, he was better than that description suggests, coming close to winning several times in good company. However, even when dropped in class, he always found a way to lose - that was his appeal to me. The book mentions Quixall Crossett (who didn't make the top 100) in the piece on Amrullah, but he was just a slow horse who never looked likely to win - not like Amrullah at all.<br /><br />Giant's Causeway, who contested nine Group One races as a three-year-old, winning five and finishing a close second in the other four, made the top twenty. He is one of several horses in this book that raced in America's Breeders' Cup. Americans who follow breeding will recognize the names of a few other horses here, especially Britain's last triple crown winner, Nijinsky, who was bred in Canada, trained in Ireland and retired to America where he became an outstanding success as a stallion.<br /><br />Elsewhere, this book includes all (well, nearly all) of the popular horses that raced in Britain over the past forty years - Sea Pigeon, Double Trigger, Tingle Creek, Captain Christy, Flagship Uberalis, Viking Flagship, Bula, Pendil, Persian War, Persian Punch, Pebbles, Dancing Brave, Aldaniti, Crisp, Dawn Run, L'Escargot, Monksfield, Night Nurse, Shergar, Wayward Lad, Mtoto, Sea Bird, Troy, Grundy and Lammtarra among them.<br /><br />This may not be the most scholarly book about racehorses but it is most enjoyable and allows fans of British racing to read about some of the popular racehorses of recent times.ropped in class, he always found a way to lose - that was his appeal to me. The book mentions Quixall Crossett (who didn't make the top 100) in the piece on Amrullah, but he was just a slow horse who never looked likely to win - not like Amrullah at all.      Giant's Causeway, who contested nine Group One races as a three-year-old, winning five and finishing a close second in the other four, made the top twenty. He is one of several horses in this book that raced in America's Breeders' Cup. Americans who follow breeding will recognize the names of a few other horses here, especially Britain's last triple crown winner, Nijinsky, who was bred in Canada, trained in Ireland and retired to America where he became an outstanding success as a stallion.    Elsewhere, this book includes all (well, nearly all) of the popular horses that raced in Britain over the past forty years - Sea Pigeon, Double Trigger, Tingle Creek, Captain Christy, Flagship Uberalis, Viking Flagship, Bula, Pendil, Persian War, Persian Punch, Pebbles, Dancing Brave, Aldaniti, Crisp, Dawn Run, L'Escargot, Monksfield, Night Nurse, Shergar, Wayward Lad, Mtoto, Sea Bird, Troy, Grundy and Lammtarra among them.     This may not be the most scholarly book about racehorses but it is most enjoyable and allows fans of British racing to read about some of the popular racehorses of recent times.	2005-06-20
US	50345651	R17EE1UCOVKFIO	0520244060	244045908	The Encyclopedia of Animals: A Complete Visual Guide	Books	5	52	55	N	N	A superb introduction to life on Earth	Animals, birds, insects, fishes and reptiles have always fascinated people. This book provides as comprehensive a guide as it is reasonably possible to do on such a broad subject in a single book. There are plenty of photographs and drawings to support the text. All of it is well laid out and easy to read.<br /><br />The overview at the beginning of the book makes clear that the co-authors believe in Darwin's theory of evolution, acknowledging the alternative theory of creation but being somewhat dismissive of it. This overview also covers biology, habitat and endangered species as well as evolution.<br /><br />Anybody wishing to read it from cover to cover faces a daunting (albeit very enjoyable) prospect - however, the book is structured in such a way that you can dip into the book for the information you want and usually find it easily (though I wonder how many people would know to look for rabbits under their group name lagomorphs), with separate sections for each main category of creature and each section sub-divided appropriately.<br /><br />Understandably, the biggest main section is devoted to mammals. Here you will find six pages devoted to the dog family, ten to the cat family and three to horses and related species. Obviously, a book like this can never offer much more than an appreciation of the diversity of life on our planet, but in this it does an excellent job. The pictures should appeal to people of all ages including even small children, thus helping to interest them in the subject. The text is not too technical so all readers can expand their knowledge via this book.<br /><br />Of course, you can explore the natural world in greater detail by collecting books devoted to birds, butterflies, cats, dogs, horses, fishes or whatever appeals to you, but for such a wide-ranging book about animal life, this is as good as any I've seen.	2005-05-24
US	50345651	R39NK7HX15RV8A	0520218000	36277712	Workin' Man Blues: Country Music in California	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Country music in California	Nobody doubts the importance of Texas and Tennessee in the development of country music, yet the substantial contribution of California to country music is often ignored. At first glance, this is understandable, since the Californian music scene is generally dominated by the major cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco. However, these two cities are several hundred miles apart and much of the territory in between is deeply rural, populated by people displaced from other states, who took their music with them when they migrated. In particular, Bakersfield and its surrounding area became a hotbed of country music. This is the area from which the author comes, but in this book he covers all aspects of the California country music scene including Hollywood's contribution.<br /><br />Whole chapters are devoted to the Crockett family, Gene Autry, Bob Wills, Spade Cooley, Rose Maddox and her brothers, Buck Owens, Merle Haggard and Dwight Yoakam. These are clearly the artists that the author regards as the most important to the development of Californian country music and I'm certainly not going to argue with him. While very few people these days know about the Crockett family, they were California's first country stars even if (as it seems) their appeal did not extend beyond their home state.<br /><br />Between the chapters devoted to individual artists, there are chapters devoted to particular decades. These chapters describe all the remaining significant artists. Early on, the author attempts to define country music but, as we all know, it is impossible to define. Being unable to clearly define the music, the author covers the music in all its aspects from traditional to contemporary singers but focuses mainly on tradition. Thus, Glen Campbell (born in Arkansas but who made his career in California) and Barbara Mandrell (born in Texas but raised in California from an early age) are given due coverage, their achievements being far too important to ignore. Although I love their music, I know as much as I want to from elsewhere. It is important that they are covered but they are not the reason to buy this book.<br /><br />Apart from the chapters on the selected major traditional artists, this book serves as a reminder of many great but obscure performers such as Kate Wolf, who seemed set to make a major commercial breakthrough with her brand of folk-country music but died of leukaemia before she could capitalize on her growing popularity.<br /><br />Country-rock is covered too - there is a page devoted to a family tree showing how various performers switched between various groups - the Byrds, the Eagles, the Flying Burrito Brothers, Buffalo Springfield, Crosby Stills and Nash, Poco and a few others. It's not complete (no Dillard and Clark Expedition, no Desert Rose Band) but it covers all the line-ups that most people are interested in. A truly comprehensive family tree would take too much space to make it easy to follow.<br /><br />This book is a real treasure trove of information about country music in California but if it whets your appetite for more reading, there is a selected bibliography that runs to over twenty pages.<br /><br />Every country music fan can learn much about the history of the music from this book, which proves that California has played a major role in the development of country music - maybe not quite as important as Tennessee and Texas, but far more important than most people realize.love their music, I know as much as I want to from elsewhere. It is important that they are covered but they are not the reason to buy this book. <br /> <br />Apart from the chapters on the selected major traditional artists, this book serves as a reminder of many great but obscure performers such as Kate Wolf, who seemed set to make a major commercial breakthrough with her brand of folk-country music but died of leukaemia before she could capitalize on her growing popularity. <br /> <br />Country-rock is covered too - there is a page devoted to a family tree showing how various performers switched between various groups - the Byrds, the Eagles, the Flying Burrito Brothers, Buffalo Springfield, Crosby Stills and Nash, Poco and a few others. It's not complete (no Dillard and Clark Expedition, no Desert Rose Band) but it covers all the line-ups that most people are interested in. A truly comprehensive family tree would take too much space to make it easy to follow. <br /> <br />This book is a real treasure trove of information about country music in California but if it whets your appetite for more reading, there is a selected bibliography that runs to over twenty pages. <br /> <br />Every country music fan can learn much about the history of the music from this book, which proves that California has played a major role in the development of country music - maybe not quite as important as Tennessee and Texas, but far more important than most people realize.	2005-05-10
US	50345651	R3B0BUXDZ8LE52	1844490580	231043442	The Complete Book Of The British Charts, 3rd Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	My preferred choice for British pop chart data	This review pertains to the third edition, covering the period 1952 to 2003.<br /><br />For many years, the Guinness book of British hit singles was the definitive guide to the British charts. Now there are rivals and while none are ideal, I prefer this ahead of the alternatives. Of course, if Joel Whitburn (of Billboard fame) were to publish a British chart book, that would be better still - he sets the standard for presentation.<br /><br />The basic problem for all chart books is the sheer volume of data. This explains the small, difficult to read, type although if this is a particular problem, you could go for the books published by Collins instead. They publish separate books for singles and albums although each individual book is about the same size as this one. Thus, there is more room for larger typeface but it obviously comes at a price.<br /><br />While Guinness likes to include pictures, this book provides extra information about cover versions (who originally recorded it) and soundtrack songs (which film). This information is incomplete, so under Elvis Presley's relevant hits you are told who originally recorded Hound dog (Big Mama Thornton) but not who originally recorded Blue suede shoes (Carl Perkins) or Blue moon (Glen Gray). However, the other books do not provide this information at all. Against that, Guinness provides brief descriptions for some of the artists - however, I prefer to use a music encyclopedia for this type of information. The notes about cover versions and soundtrack songs is much more useful to me. While I knew a lot of this info already, this book expanded my knowledge. I hope that future editions will fill some of the gaps beginning with the examples I gave above.<br /><br />The section on compilations is interesting (mainly listed by record label) and even includes a section on selected series so you can find (for example) all the Now compilations under one heading. What it doesn't do is segregate according to musical genre, but I can see that this would be an almost impossible task.<br /><br />With all the data presented, perfect presentation at an affordable price is impossible but the information provided makes this a better choice than the alternatives - so far. As there are now several rival publications, we can only assume that they are looking to see what each other is doing and will all improve what they offer with successive editons.almost impossible task.    With all the data presented, perfect presentation at an affordable price is impossible but the information provided makes this a better choice than the alternatives - so far. As there are now several rival publications, we can only assume that they are looking to see what each other is doing and will all improve what they offer with successive editons.	2005-04-29
US	50345651	R1X4FWHM5NUPTY	0671056085	289208088	Natural Wonders of the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An introduction to nature's dramatic features	This book is divided into chapters dealing with the earth's surface, plants, ice, water, sky and the inside of the earth.<br /><br />In the chapter on the earth's surface, twelve examples are given, beginning with the Grand Canyon. The author is unable to explain how the canyon was formed pointing out that its magnitude cannot be simply explained. He leaves the experts to argue about how it happened and over what timescale. Whether geologists have since agreed upon the origins of the canyon, I do not know, but the author is able to offer explanations for some of the other spectacular features such as balancing granite rocks, the Himalayas, limestone caves, deserts, craters, deltas and petrified forests.<br /><br />In similar style, the chapter dealing with plants describes some of the more intriguing, such as mangrove swamps, giant sequoias and the Venus Flytrap. In the section on ice, we learn about fjords, glaciers, icebergs and ice caves. The water chapter covers the Dead Sea as well as coral reefs, whirlpools, rivers, waterfalls and tides. The book claims that the Amazon is the largest river and the Congo comes second. I'm assuming (from the way the text is written) that this includes all the various tributaries but, even so, I am surprised that the Congo comes ahead of the Mississippi. Still, it's not a subject I've studied so I'm not going to argue.<br /><br />The sky chapter deals with clouds, rainbows, auroras, tornados, eclipses and lightning. The chapter on the inside of the earth explains the turmoil that happens below the surface and how this occasionally surfaces via volcanoes, geysers, sulphur pools and earthquakes. Reading the two pages on Yellowstone Park, one might assume that it is fairly harmless but my understanding is that there is a possibility that it will explode big time one day. Maybe scientific opinion has changed since the book was written.<br /><br />This book will not provide anything for experts but it makes a great introduction to the world's more spectacular features, especially as it includes many spectacular color photographs. Those wishing to study any of them in greater detail should seek out more narrowly focused books.ction to the world's more spectacular features, especially as it includes many spectacular color photographs. Those wishing to study any of them in greater detail should seek out more narrowly focused books.	2005-04-18
US	50345651	R2Q7LHSY5TAWQ6	1859987273	882780551	Art of Coarse Golf (Hodder Headline audio)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very funny if you know anything about golf	I only ever played one round of golf, persuaded to join a day out for the whole office. My equally incompetent opponent and I had a competitive match until he stopped counting his score so I won the match with a score of 270 although I might have won even if he'd kept his score till the end. My reward for this dubious victory was to be presented with the first edition of this book when I eventually left the company. It's not difficult to see why this book was chosen for me.<br /><br />The author takes an amusing look at all the things that can and do go wrong on a golf course. The opening chapter describes an episode in which a wayward drive sends a ball on to the nearby road and into the window of a passing lorry, leading to a very amusing sequence of events.<br /><br />There is a particularly funny, albeit politically incorrect, episode about two women golfers. The basis of this chapter is that bad golfers spend a lot of time in the rough but that while men just want to get their ball back into play, women can actually enjoy this aspect of the game as it gives them the chance to study the local wildlife. Sometimes a wayward drive takes them into a wood full of primroses or bluebells. At other holes, they have a chance to study nesting birds.<br /><br />The author asserts that men interpret the rules (such as moving unplayable balls) to suit themselves. Of course, these players are never going to be good enough to play in an event with an official to enforce the rules correctly.<br /><br />There are many other amusing events in this book covering water hazards, course etiquette (or lack thereof), golf handicap ratings and equipment. Some bad golf strokes are given names - the knurdle, the jobble and the rigor mortis among them.<br /><br />While this is a fairly short book, it is hilarious from start to finish if you know anything about golf played by normal people - a world away from the professional stuff.	2005-04-13
US	50345651	R1XWY90WA8E7M4	B00005V4WI	217634317	KINKS - ULTIMATE COLLECTION : 2CD SET	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Definitive hits collection plus rarities and B-sides	The first CD of this collection contains all of their UK hits in chronological order, from their first success (You really got me) in 1964 to their last (Don't forget to dance) in 1983. All the classic songs are here including You really got me, All day and all of the night, Tired of waiting for you, Dedicated follower of fashion, Well respected man, Sunny afternoon, Waterloo sunset, Autumn almanac, Days, Lola and Apeman. It also includes Dave's two solo UK hits - Death of a clown and Susannah's still alive (inserted in their correct places chronologically between the other Kinks hits).<br /><br />Being presented in chronological order, this CD shows their progression from their musical roots in R+B to more of a mainstream pop group and continually changing their style thereafter. Nevertheless, their songs were always distinctive because of Ray's talent for making ordinary situations into extraordinary songs. My favorite Kinks song is Waterloo sunset, a huge UK hit but not an American hit. It is about romance at a railway station that I am familiar with, though I cannot possibly imagine what inspired Ray to write that song, but he was a genius.<br /><br />The second CD is less instantly appealing, containing a mix of B-sides and rarities as well as songs that were hits for others although not for the Kinks, including David Watts (a minor UK hit for punk-rockers The Jam) and Stop your sobbing (a minor UK hit for the Pretenders). If you enjoy listening to more than just the hits, you will find plenty to interest you here.<br /><br />The best tribute to the quality of the Kinks' songs lies in the diversity of the covers that have been recorded by singers in several genres of music. Apart from the aforementioned tracks by the Jam and the Pretenders, Kirsty MacColl (Days), the Stranglers (All day and all of the night), Petula Clark (Days - and a French version of Well respected man), Cathy Dennis (Waterloo sunset, Sunny afternoon), Green day (Tired of waiting for you), Jimmy Buffett (Sunny afternoon), Van Halen (You really got me) and Barb Jungr (Waterloo sunset) are among those who have covered Kinks songs.<br /><br />Despite the brilliance of some of the covers, here you get the chance to hear the original versions of their classic songs, plus a selection of their other music.you), Jimmy Buffett (Sunny afternoon), Van Halen (You really got me) and Barb Jungr (Waterloo sunset) are among those who have covered Kinks songs. <br /> <br />Despite the brilliance of some of the covers, here you get the chance to hear the original versions of their classic songs, plus a selection of their other music.	2005-02-24
US	50345651	R32P7EHX9WSA2E	B00004TJXZ	892464432	Best Of -20Tr-	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Sixties R+B from Newcastle	The Animals, a group that included Eric Burdon and Alan Price, were the first major pop stars to emerge from Newcastle, a city located about 300 miles north of London, therefore far removed from where most talent scouts were searching. It is fortunate for us all that the Animals were discovered because they recorded some of the best R+B music to come out of the UK in the sixties.<br /><br />Their biggest hit was House of the rising sun, a re-working of a folk song (apparently inspired by Josh White's version of the song) that gave them a transatlantic number one hit. They had five other top ten UK hits with Mickie Most as their producer, these being I'm crying, Don't let me be misunderstood (a cover of a Nina Simone song), Bring it on home to me (a Sam Cooke cover), We gotta get out of this place (the version included here is the UK version - a markedly different recording was released in America but was unavailable for inclusion in this set) and It's my life.<br /><br />Apart from their singles, the Animals recorded many other covers including Boom boom, Dimples, I'm mad again (all John Lee Hooker), Talking about you and I believe to my soul (both Ray Charles). These covers clearly demonstrate what some of their main influences were, but they also wrote some of their own songs.<br /><br />The Animals split with their produce, Mickie Most, and switched to another record label (Decca), where they had some success using the name Eric Burdon and the Animals, including another UK top ten hit (Don't bring me down,) and one that just missed the UK top en (Inside looking out).<br /><br />All the tracks mentioned so far are included, but thy changed labels again (to MGM). The MGM tracks, notably San Franciscan nights, are not included here. Nevertheless, this is a great introduction to the music of the Animals. You can easily find San Franciscan nights elsewhere.	2005-02-22
US	50345651	R1Q07ZI596RG2J	0718106253	684603448	Great racehorses of the world	Books	5	0	0	N	N	33 top horses from 1850's to 1960's	As the co-authors point out in their introduction, this book is not called Greatest racehorses of the world, because there are many horses of equal brilliance that could have been included but weren't. A second volume (More great racehorses of the world) was published three years later - there was no drop in quality.<br /><br />Being a British book, it is inevitably biased towards horses that raced in Britain at some point in their career but there are some notable exceptions including four American horses (Lexington, Man O' War, Native Dancer, Swaps), three Australian horses (Carbine, Phar Lap, Tulloch) and two German horses (Oleander, Lutteur III). The Hungarian horse, Kincsem, is also included - she raced once in Britain, winning the Goodwood Cup easily when her expected main rival was unable to compete. Two Italian horses, Nearco and Ribot, are also included - brilliant as they were on the racecourse (both were unbeaten), they were even more brilliant at stud. Of the three French horses included, Gladiateur and Sea Bird II both won the Epsom Derby while Pharis was due to contest the St Leger at Doncaster in 1939 but the meeting was abandoned following the declaration of war.<br /><br />The remaining horses are all British or Irish and include such legends as Arkle, Golden Miller (the best steeplechasers of their respective eras), Sceptre, Pretty Polly (two of the finest fillies ever to race anywhere), The Tetrarch (from whom all modern grey thoroughbreds in the world today are descended, though not in direct male line - the stallion line is extinct), Hyperion and St Simon.<br /><br />There is plenty of information about each horse, particularly about its breeding and subsequent stud career. Peter Willett, one of the co-authors, was a leading bloodstock expert and some may feel that the amount of information about bloodlines and achievements of related horses to be excessive. I did when I first bought the book but I wasn't interested in bloodlines at all back then. I appreciate such information better now. There is one black and white photograph of each horse but only two of them show the horses in racing action.<br /><br />There have been plenty of books of this type down the years. This is by no means the strongest (but remember the sequel, More great racehorses of the world) but it is very good for the selected horses, especially if you are interested in bloodlines.<br /><br />Full list of horses - West Australian, Lexington, Gladiateur, Kincsem, St Simon, Ormonde, Carbine, Persimmon, Sceptre, Pretty Polly, Lutteur III, Bayardo, The Tetrarch, Man O' War, Oleander, Phar Lap, Golden Miller, Reynoldstown, Hyperion, Windsor Lad, Nearco, Pharis, National Spirit, Alycidon, Native Dancer, Swaps, Ribot, Tulloch, Ballymoss, Bella Paola, Arkle, Sea Bird II, Vaguely Noble.ck then. I appreciate such information better now. There is one black and white photograph of each horse but only two of them show the horses in racing action. <br /> <br />There have been plenty of books of this type down the years. This is by no means the strongest (but remember the sequel, More great racehorses of the world) but it is very good for the selected horses, especially if you are interested in bloodlines. <br /> <br />Full list of horses - West Australian, Lexington, Gladiateur, Kincsem, St Simon, Ormonde, Carbine, Persimmon, Sceptre, Pretty Polly, Lutteur III, Bayardo, The Tetrarch, Man O' War, Oleander, Phar Lap, Golden Miller, Reynoldstown, Hyperion, Windsor Lad, Nearco, Pharis, National Spirit, Alycidon, Native Dancer, Swaps, Ribot, Tulloch, Ballymoss, Bella Paola, Arkle, Sea Bird II, Vaguely Noble.	2005-02-21
US	50345651	R300LTB32GUZ5O	1843308541	701513241	Roundabouts of Great Britain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An American invention developed in Britain	This book had its beginnings in a calendar. A small publishing house in Redditch (near Birmingham and Stratford-on-Avon) had a tradition of producing a calendar each year in small volumes. In 2002, they were so desperate for ideas that they decided (as a joke) to do a roundabouts calendar. With over forty in Redditch, they had plenty to choose from. Although some people laughed at the calendar, the ten they originally printed expanded to a few hundred, so the idea for this book was born.<br />We often hear about things invented in Britain but developed elsewhere, often America, so it is nice to know that occasionally events happen in reverse. The first roundabout was actually installed in New York in 1903 but, despite that, roundabouts have not become widespread in America. France came next but it is in Britain that roundabouts have really proliferated.<br />The first British roundabout was installed in Letchworth, north of London but within commuting distance. They are now so common in the UK that it would be difficult to do any kind of road journey, especially in well-populated areas, that avoiding them. What is clear from this book is that roundabouts are not as boring as they might seem. Most but not all are of a generally circular shape - the book shows roundabouts that look more like triangles and rectangles, albeit with rounded angles. Some are very small - mini-roundabouts just painted on the road. Others are very large with the spaces in the middle used for a variety of purposes including wildlife, landscape, monuments and electricity pylons. One roundabout was built where (it seems) an ordinary junction would have been sufficient for traffic purposes, but there was an old oak tree at the site. The roundabout was apparently built around the tree.<br />It is said that the contributors researched roundabouts the length and breadth of the UK but it is clear that some towns proved to be disproportionately interesting. I was disappointed by the absence of Basingstoke, which is famous for its roundabouts - one of them is mentioned in Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy. I would have thought that one would have got into the book simply for that reason, but it didn't. However, Swindon, Slough, Milton Keynes, Grimsby/Cleethorpes, Telford and (of course) Redditch are all well represented.<br />The star is, of course, the magic roundabout in Swindon (that really is the name by which it is known). It is actually one central roundabout with a series of roundabouts in a circle around it, which has to be seen to be believed - you can look at it and think that the traffic is sometimes going the wrong way. I lived in Swindon when it was built and no photograph (not even the one in this book) can do justice to it.<br />The book also describes a type of person whose existence I was unaware of - the roundabout spotter. These people have get-togethers and exchange ideas. Well, you can always learn something new. But although this book is interesting and I may never look at roundabouts in quite the same way again, I definitely will not be joining the ranks of roundabout spotters.<br />So, many roundabouts are very ordinary but this book shows that there is much more to roundabout design than you could ever imagine. America is really missing out on something.ingstoke, which is famous for its roundabouts  one of them is mentioned in Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy. I would have thought that one would have got into the book simply for that reason, but it didn't. However, Swindon, Slough, Milton Keynes, Grimsby/Cleethorpes, Telford and (of course) Redditch are all well represented.<br />The star is, of course, the magic roundabout in Swindon (that really is the name by which it is known). It is actually one central roundabout with a series of roundabouts in a circle around it, which has to be seen to be believed  you can look at it and think that the traffic is sometimes going the wrong way. I lived in Swindon when it was built and no photograph (not even the one in this book) can do justice to it.<br />The book also describes a type of person whose existence I was unaware of  the roundabout spotter. These people have get-togethers and exchange ideas. Well, you can always learn something new. But although this book is interesting and I may never look at roundabouts in quite the same way again, I definitely will not be joining the ranks of roundabout spotters.<br />So, many roundabouts are very ordinary but this book shows that there is much more to roundabout design than you could ever imagine. America is really missing out on something.	2004-11-03
US	50345651	RD8MPHVOJW845	1586480928	354868531	Separate, But Equal: The Mississippi Photographs of Henry Clay Anderson	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A successful black community (4 stars not 5)	During the middle of the twentieth century, American black and white people lived in separate communities by law. White people never entered black areas while black people only entered white areas if they were employed as butlers or maids. This segregation created many impoverished black ghettos but there were a few black communities that prospered and this book is about one of them, in Greenville, in the American state of Mississippi.<br /><br />The inspiration for - and focus of - the book is the collection of photographs by Henry Clay Anderson who died in 1998, a few months after selling that collection to Shawn Wilson. These photographs show successful black people going about their normal lives at school, at home, at weddings and a variety of other everyday situations as well as photographs taken in a studio. Most of these photographs would be unremarkable if they were of white people, but because most photographs of black people are of the poor and oppressed, these photographs may come as a revelation to some.<br /><br />Supporting text by Clifton L. Taulbert, who remembers the area from his childhood (he was raised in a nearby community), explains what Greenville was like during the period in which these photographs were taken. Greenville is not one of America's more famous locations. I only recognize the name because it is mentioned in a song that I know well - Mississippi, by the Dutch pop group, Pussycat. As this book is about a particular period in Greenville's history, I (and I'm sure many readers of this book) would have appreciated the inclusion of a chapter about Greenville's history and culture to set this book in context, explaining what it was like before the period covered and hw things have changed since. In its absence, I have to drop the book (otherwise easily worth five stars), to four stars.<br /><br />Another chapter is devoted to the rise of the civil rights movement and the murder of the Reverend Gus Lee, accompanied by some dramatic photographs that are not typical of the rest of the book, which set out to portray the good aspects of black people's lives. However, bad things happen to everybody and it was necessary to cover this episode in the book.<br /><br />This book, despite the murder, shows that black people can be very successful. It's the kind of book that shouldn't be necessary and it's a sad reflection on society that it was felt necessary to publish this book.ypical of the rest of the book, which set out to portray the good aspects of black people's lives. However, bad things happen to everybody and it was necessary to cover this episode in the book.     This book, despite the murder, shows that black people can be very successful. It's the kind of book that shouldn't be necessary and it's a sad reflection on society that it was felt necessary to publish this book.	2004-10-24
US	50345651	R2A0WQE57UMD1B	1856054586	983624336	The Great Racehorses	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So many brilliant horses	Any book of this kind is bound to be contentious - how do you select 100 horses from over 200 years of racing in several different countries? Inevitably, there is a bias in favor of the last half-century - it is what the author has seen at first hand and it is what anybody buying the book will have seen.<br /><br />Julian, who fronted BBC TV's racing coverage for many years so is more familiar with such horses, admits to a bias in favor of Britain and Ireland. Only nine American horses (Cigar, Citation, Kelso, Man O' War, Native Dancer, Seattle Slew, Secretariat, War Admiral and Jay Trump) and one Canadian (Northern Dancer) are featured. Some of the others were bred in America, including Mill Reef, Nijinsky and Sir Ivor, but ran their races in Europe. There are also a few horses from elsewhere, mostly France.<br /><br />Of course, the lack of American horses makes this an ideal companion for similar books by American writers. Such books tend to define the 100 best racehorses very differently, focusing mainly or exclusively on American horses.<br /><br />Aside from any dispute about which horses are the 100 best ever, this is a well-illustrated book which gives a good summary of each horse's story, together with a list of big race wins and a pedigree going back four generations. Each horse gets 2 or 3 pages including pictures - usually photographs, but a painting in the case of those horses that pre-date photography.<br /><br />Anybody interested in great British and Irish racehorses is unlikely to find a better book of this type.<br /><br />Note - although this is listed as unavailable here, it is available in the UK on ISBN 0316644684	2004-10-14
US	50345651	R3GN5Z1O3HZYGV	158648236X	354868531	Separate, But Equal: Images from the Segregated South	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A successful black community	During the middle of the twentieth century, American black and white people lived in separate communities by law. White people never entered black areas while black people only entered white areas if they were employed as butlers or maids. This segregation created many impoverished black ghettos but there were a few black communities that prospered and this book is about one of them, in Greenville, in the American state of Mississippi.<br /><br />The inspiration for - and focus of - the book is the collection of photographs by Henry Clay Anderson who died in 1998, a few months after selling that collection to Shawn Wilson. These photographs show successful black people going about their normal lives at school, at home, at weddings and a variety of other everyday situations as well as photographs taken in a studio. Most of these photographs would be unremarkable if they were of white people, but because most photographs of black people are of the poor and oppressed, these photographs may come as a revelation to some.<br /><br />Supporting text by Clifton L. Taulbert, who remembers the area from his childhood (he was raised in a nearby community), explains what Greenville was like during the period in which these photographs were taken. Greenville is not one of America's more famous locations. I only recognize the name because it is mentioned in a song that I know well - Mississippi, by the Dutch pop group, Pussycat. As this book is about a particular period in Greenville's history, I (and I'm sure many readers of this book) would have appreciated the inclusion of a chapter about Greenville's history and culture to set this book in context, explaining what it was like before the period covered and hw things have changed since. In its absence, I have to drop the book (otherwise easily worth five stars), to four stars.<br /><br />Another chapter is devoted to the rise of the civil rights movement and the murder of the Reverend Gus Lee, accompanied by some dramatic photographs that are not typical of the rest of the book, which set out to portray the good aspects of black people's lives. However, bad things happen to everybody and it was necessary to cover this episode in the book.<br /><br />This book, despite the murder, shows that black people can be very successful. It's the kind of book that shouldn't be necessary and it's a sad reflection on society that it was felt necessary to publish this book.photographs that are not typical of the rest of the book, which set out to portray the good aspects of black people's lives. However, bad things happen to everybody and it was necessary to cover this episode in the book. <br /> <br />This book, despite the murder, shows that black people can be very successful. It's the kind of book that shouldn't be necessary and it's a sad reflection on society that it was felt necessary to publish this book.	2004-10-04
US	50345651	R9FIODDNU6TQ1	0517661209	103781204	Antarctic Wildlife	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Superb pictures and excellent text	This book is a permanent reminder to me of this fascinating continent, its surrounding ocean and the wildlife that inhabit them. The book starts with an introduction then a chapter setting the historical background. Next comes a chapter describing the ecology of the three main regions - the continent of Antarctica, the maritime Antarctic (the ocean surrounding Antarctica) and the sub-Antarctic - further out, including South Georgia and nearby islands. Penguins and albatrosses each have a chapter to themselves with all other birds (cormorants, gulls, skuas, wakes, petrels and pigeons) grouped together in another chapter. A chapter on seals and a chapter on wildlife photography in the Antarctic complete the main book (there is an appendix and an index).<br /><br />The longest chapters is the one devoted to penguins - at forty pages, it is double the length of the next longest chapter. Quite right too, as penguins are what most people think of when they think of Antarctica. You may be thinking that one penguin is much the same as another - if so, you'd be wrong. In fact, there are eight different species, thought the Royals only nest on Macquarie Island. The others are Emperor, Adelie, Chinstrap, Gentoo, Macaroni, Rockhopper and King. Each species has its own distinguishing characteristics - for example, the Royal, Rockhopper and Macaroni penguins all have crests. The Emperor and King penguins (as their names suggest) are much larger than the other species.<br /><br />This well-written book has a lot of information about the birds and seals of the region, matched by many spectacular photographs. If you are interested in Antarctica, this book is well worth looking for.	2004-09-30
US	50345651	R37N4VLYKBYO17	0553057995	834574343	Get to the Heart: My Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A difficult read but well worth it	Let me say straight away that the reason I found this book a difficult read was simply because of the nature of the story. Half the book is about Barbara's life prior to the accident that almost killed her (and did kill somebody else unrelated and hitherto unknown to the family) and half is about her recovery from it. The recovery is sometimes a very difficult read and it may be for that reason that the book is not presented chronologically. Instead, chapters on the recovery alternate with chapters on the earlier years, so you could read about Barbara's life chronologically by reading alternate chapters.<br /><br />Barbara's life was (and remains) in total contrast to so many celebrity lives. She was married to the same man throughout her career and was devoted to her family and her Christianity. No drugs, no extra-marital affairs, no hint of any kind of scandal. So although the early part of her life is of interest to her fans, of which I am one, the wider public is likely to be mainly interested in the accident and Barbara's recovery from it.<br /><br />It seemed to me at the time (and subsequent events confirm it) that although Barbara made a full physical recovery - a miracle in itself - the mental scars never healed. She was less enthusiastic about her work than she had been. Perhaps this lack of enthusiasm explains why so little of her music from her peak years has ever been released on CD.<br /><br />This book was in the American bestseller listings soon after publication. With Barbara's retirement from the music business, it seems that few people are interested in reading about her life any more (except her fans, who are likely to have a copy already) - this is a pity, because it's one of the more interesting country music biographies despite being a difficult read.	2004-09-29
US	50345651	R2UWO8ERKQ24DC	1586481363	500815555	China Hands: Nine Decades of Adventure, Espionage, and Diplomacy in Asia	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A fascinating autobiography	The first thing to make clear is that this is, first of all, an autobiography. While it provides an interesting insight into the life of a CIA agent who later became a diplomat, it does not provide a comprehensive historical account of the political events mentioned in the book. So, historians may feel that this book is incomplete but may still find this book interesting as it inevitably presents a different perspective from other books.<br /><br />James Lilley was born and raised in China while his father, who worked for an American oil company, was assigned to its China office, so he had an interest in China from childhood. Throughout the book, it is clear that James belongs to a close-knit family. It is possible that you may find too many early chapters devoted to his childhood and the eventual suicide of one of his brothers. You can, of course, skip these chapters but they help to set the context for James' career.<br /><br />His career took him to a number of Asian countries, originally as a CIA agent but later as a diplomat. He was USA representative to Taiwan in the early eighties, USA Ambassador to Korea in the mid-eighties and USA Ambassador to China during the late eighties. His account of the troubles in Tiananmen Square is therefore particularly interesting, as is his perspective on relations between China, America and Taiwan - a very complex issue.<br /><br />In his earlier career with the CIA, James explains the difficulty of working there during the fifties and sixties, when China was all but closed to the outside world. He also acknowledges the importance of Richard Nixon in breaking the ice between America and China, though he correctly points out that deteriorating Chinese relations with the Soviet Union made Nixon's task easier than it would otherwise have been.<br /><br />In the mid seventies, he met George Bush (Senior), who also worked for the CIA at the time, thus establishing what would become an important working relationship, ultimately leading to James' appointment as Ambassador to China by George, when he eventually became President.<br /><br />If you enjoy biography with some politics and history added into the mix, you will surely enjoy this. If you are really only interested in the history and politics, you may find other books that suit you better.ately leading to James' appointment as Ambassador to China by George, when he eventually became President.  <br /> <br />If you enjoy biography with some politics and history added into the mix, you will surely enjoy this. If you are really only interested in the history and politics, you may find other books that suit you better.	2004-09-23
US	50345651	R220FMVB08ERFY	158648124X	762866968	The Failures Of Integration: How Race and Class Are Undermining the American Dream	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Fascinating	Some of you may wonder why I, being a white Brit with conservative political beliefs, should be interested in a book about racial issues in America. It's quite simple, really - Britain, like America, is a multi-racial society in which the different races sometimes have difficulty relating to each other and this is a good way to understand some of what black people think of whites and how the differences can be overcome. While there are differences between Britain and America, there are also plenty of similarities.  I do not agree with everything here but I never expected to. To be honest, the book is far better -and more constructive - than I dared hope.<br /><br />Sheryll Cashin, the author, is clearly a highly intelligent lady who has done a lot of research for this book. She presents her case well and it is, at times, uncomfortable reading for white readers, just as I expected, though it is also clear that she recognizes that progress needs the co-operation of the white community, so she is careful in her use of language. Furthermore, she acknowledges that black people have some of the same faults. In this way, she can reasonably hope to win support for her case from at least some white people. She presents a lot of facts as well as opinions presented as facts.<br /><br />One of the opinions that are presented as fact is fundamental to her philosophy. This is a forecast that the white majority will disappear this century in America and that by 2100 whites will only make up forty percent of the population - still the largest ethnic group but not a majority. This forecast may prove to be accurate but it may not. By persistently stating it as a fact rather than a forecast, Sheryll damages her case slightly.<br /><br />Sheryll mainly focuses on housing although schools are also given a fair bit of coverage. She scarcely mentions business or cultural situations. Furthermore, she only looks at what is happening in America. It would have been useful to compare the American experience with what is happening in Europe, where there is also a white majority, and with Africa, where there is a black majority.<br /><br />Sheryll complains that white people like to live in areas that are predominately white, yet acknowledges that black people like to live in areas that are predominately black. She wants us all to live amongst each other - no white areas, no black areas (actually, she concedes that a few enclaves might be OK, even useful) - but explains why she won't be an integration pioneer (her term for a black person going to live in a white area). All this explains why areas that somehow manage to become mixed generally don't stay mixed - eventually one race becomes a minority and moves out unless there is a strong sense of community.<br /><br />Sheryll does, however, draw one clear distinction, claiming that black people are accustomed to (and therefore comfortable) being a minority among whites, yet white people are uncomfortable being in a minority among blacks. This may well be true (at least for some whites), but this is where research in Africa would have been useful - it would have revealed whether it is a white problem or a majority race problem. I will say that the only time I was in a white minority was on a training course. It lasted several weeks but although I was surprised at first (it was a new experience for me), I quickly got used to it and I never had any problems with any of the black people I met there - indeed, some of them were wonderful.<br /><br />Sheryll's wish for all areas to be mixed (which she concedes is a Utopian ideal) might be attainable in the long term but she acknowledges that it could not be imposed - it must be achieved by persuasion. My instinct is that this will be easier to achieve by focusing on schools and work first. If whites and blacks get used to each other in these aspects of life, then eventually they will be happier to live amongst each other. This may take a couple of generations or more. Sheryll is clearly of the opinion that housing is central and points to local action in various places that have yielded results.<br /><br />However, what makes Sheryll's solution completely unworkable is that she wants to break down all class barriers, inextricably linking class, wealth and race. She does not like the concept of people living in the best area they can afford, thus creating exclusive areas that are thereby out of the range of most people. Unfortunately for Sheryll, this type of segregation has existed from the earliest days of civilization as we recognize it, even in single-race communities, and I can't see that it's ever going to change. Linking class issues with race issues undermines her case totally.<br /><br />Despite my misgivings, this book is compulsive reading and everybody can learn a lot from it. If your political beliefs are similar to Sheryll's, you may yearn for her proposed solution, but even if you're a white conservative like me, it is useful to get a glimpse of the black perspective on racial issues.<br /><br />Regardless of your racial group or political beliefs, I have no hesitation in recommending this book.ore. Sheryll is clearly of the opinion that housing is central and points to local action in various places that have yielded results.<br /><br />However, what makes Sheryll's solution completely unworkable is that she wants to break down all class barriers, inextricably linking class, wealth and race. She does not like the concept of people living in the best area they can afford, thus creating exclusive areas that are thereby out of the range of most people. Unfortunately for Sheryll, this type of segregation has existed from the earliest days of civilization as we recognize it, even in single-race communities, and I can't see that it's ever going to change. Linking class issues with race issues undermines her case totally.<br /><br />Despite my misgivings, this book is compulsive reading and everybody can learn a lot from it. If your political beliefs are similar to Sheryll's, you may yearn for her proposed solution, but even if you're a white conservative like me, it is useful to get a glimpse of the black perspective on racial issues.<br /><br />Regardless of your racial group or political beliefs, I have no hesitation in recommending this book.	2004-05-24
US	50345651	R1W38NDG1YV116	0595296173	695411145	Being A Dad: The Stuff No One Told Me	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Very funny look at family life	Although written from a father's perspective, this book is for all the family. I made up my mind at a very early age that I never wanted to be a father and this book provides confirmation that I made the correct decision. The book is very short - only 120 pages - but the quality makes up for that. Dale, it seems, has a bossy wife (Starla) and two mischievous sons (Chase and Logan) but no daughters. The book covers his time with his two sons from the start of their lives up to the ages of seven (Chase) and four (Logan).<br /><br />He starts by telling of the problems surrounding the birth of Chase. Despite the fact that Starla had spent five years delivering babies, she was not as prepared for giving birth as Dale had hoped - and there were medical complications. You know it wasn't funny at the time but the way Dale tells the story is very funny and sets the tone of the book.<br /><br />In the chapter about naming children, Dale warns against giving children unusual names that could cause them to be subject to teasing. I therefore wondered why his boys are called Chase and Logan - however, this was one of the few things that seemed a bit odd.<br /><br />A recurring theme is how Chase and Logan remember what Dale says and repeat them at exactly the wrong time. In one case, a business get-together outside work allows the families to meet each other. When Chase is introduced to Dale's boss, he tells him what his dad really thought of him.<br /><br />Another recurring theme is the difference in outlook between men and women and between boys and girls. A particularly entertaining episode occurs when Chase is invited to a girl's birthday party. Of the twelve children at the party, Chase is one of only two boys. He and his father knew as they arrived that accepting the invitation was a mistake and things get worse when they learn that all the food is vegan - not what they were expecting or wanting. So Chase wasn't rewarded for the ordeal with a slice of chocolate cake - it was a tofu cake instead. When Dale and Chase learned that, it was too much for them.<br /><br />Dale sometimes compares life before he was a father with life as a father, describing how he and Starla spent their time together as a childless couple and all the exciting things they did, then explaining how his boys changed everything - but it's also clear that he loves the company of his boys the way that a father should.<br /><br />So, this book is the story of sleepless nights, ruined weekends and other misadventures that are all part of family life, told in an extremely witty style. I embarrassed others in the launderette by laughing so much while I was reading this as the washing machine was doing its work. Let's hope that he provides an updated edition in a few years time.ale and Chase learned that, it was too much for them.     Dale sometimes compares life before he was a father with life as a father, describing how he and Starla spent their time together as a childless couple and all the exciting things they did, then explaining how his boys changed everything - but it's also clear that he loves the company of his boys the way that a father should.    So, this book is the story of sleepless nights, ruined weekends and other misadventures that are all part of family life, told in an extremely witty style. I embarrassed others in the launderette by laughing so much while I was reading this as the washing machine was doing its work. Let's hope that he provides an updated edition in a few years time.	2004-05-14
US	50345651	R23JT3CUR4MQ7M	8589992012	605175220	Rio for Partiers: The visual travel guide to Rio de Janeiro, 6th edition	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Young hearts run free	Cristiano Noguiera wrote this handy pocket-sized guide to Rio, one of the most exciting cities in the world, for young people, although a lot of the tips and information are also useful to older people such as myself. Clearly, this book is based on years of research, trial and error. You learn very early on that this is really a young person's book - it assumes that your day begins with a late breakfast at 10 or 11, because you've been clubbing into the small hours on the night before.<br />The book is well laid out, printed on high quality paper and filled with plenty of great photographs. There are several sections. Daytime activities are further divided into relaxation, tours, active sports and cultural. The food guide covers lunch and dinner with plenty of mouth-watering photographs. Sounds of Brazil tell you the various musical styles that you can expect to hear. Nighttime activities include chilling (a category that includes British and Irish pubs), clubs, street parties and live music.<br />There is plenty of advice - what to take with you, what not to take with you, a list of hotels and hostels, what transport to use and why, things you need to buy once you get there, what to do at the beach, which parts of the city to avoid, problems of street traders, pickpockets and other criminals, even advice on how to find a partner.<br />One of the many amusing - but useful - aspects of this book is the front cover flap, which illustrates eight hand signals, including one to ask for a beer.<br />There are plenty of street maps showing various bits of Rio but the scale is necessarily small. To avoid eyestrain, you may still want a separate larger scale street map. However, the maps in the book pinpoint various locations that you aren't likely to find on any normal street map.<br />The book also gives a website address to allow you to get all the latest information. Other website addresses, particularly of places that offer discounts, are also provided. So once you've got this book, you can do a lot of research on the internet without wasting time when you get there.<br />At first glance the price may seem high for a 148-page pocket-sized book, but it can be used to obtain discounts on sports, tours, nightlife, restaurants, hotels and hostels - these discounts will save you far more than the cost of the book. Instructions on how to get the discount and what conditions apply are also supplied.<br />This is a truly wonderful guide that should provide tourists with plenty of valuable advice.e got this book, you can do a lot of research on the internet without wasting time when you get there.<br />At first glance the price may seem high for a 148-page pocket-sized book, but it can be used to obtain discounts on sports, tours, nightlife, restaurants, hotels and hostels - these discounts will save you far more than the cost of the book. Instructions on how to get the discount and what conditions apply are also supplied.<br />This is a truly wonderful guide that should provide tourists with plenty of valuable advice.	2004-03-30
US	50345651	RCGYKTKK6NDXU	0214653390	709079699	Grand National	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The famous race from its beginning to 1972	This book was up to date at the time of its publication and remains a very impressive book about the world's most famous steeplechase. The race was the steeplechase every owner and trainer wanted to win for the first century of its existence, but ever since Golden Miller won five Cheltenham Gold Cups in the thirties, that race has (at first gradually) attracted the best steeplechasers away from the Grand National. Being published in 1972, this book misses out on the Red Rum years (he finished either first or second in each National from 1973 to 1977), but those races and the ones that followed have been well documented in subsequent books on the subject.<br /><br />Understandably, details of the nineteenth century races are not as good as for later races but there is plenty of interesting information even for the old races. Even though Red Rum came too late to get a mention, all the earlier famous horses are here including Lottery (the first winner), Manifesto, Golden Miller and Foinavon, together with famous losers like Devon Loch.<br /><br />The book contains a lot of pictures (prints or photographs) and an extensive history by Clive Graham, before providing a running commentary by Bill Curling - you thus get two separate histories of the race, but the emphasis is different. When Clive discusses Golden Miller, he gives an outline of his career whereas Bill's commentary focuses on what happens in the Nationals he actually races in. The commentary links to pictures, all of which are numbered.<br /><br />There have been several books about the race since this one but I doubt if any of them cover the years up to 1972 better than this one.	2004-03-22
US	50345651	R1R8UZZF0V79UP	1854106988	763913374	Abba: The Book	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A celebratory tribute	Abba remain hugely popular in Britain and many other countries more than twenty years after they disbanded. This book is not an in-depth study of the different personalities and their difficulties, but it gives plenty of information about the members of Abba and their manager, including their lives before and after Abba. And (at least in my hardcover edition) there are pictures - plenty of them.<br />Regarding the four members of Abba, three of them (Benny, Bjorn and Agnetha) were born and raised in Sweden, all apparently having fairly normal childhoods, only their musical talent setting them apart from others. All three became hugely successful in the Swedish pop charts, Agnetha as a solo singer, Benny and Bjorn as members of separate groups.<br />The odd one out was Anni-Frid, better known as Frida. She was born in Norway as the illegitimate child of a German father and Norwegian mother. Frida was mainly raised by her grandmother, who took her to Sweden, where her mother joined them but died of illness a few months later, aged just 21. Frida also found it much harder than the others to achieve success in music, but she did eventually have some big Swedish hits of her own.<br />The author presents the main years (1969 to 1982) on a year-by-year basis, explaining the different events that occurred in each year - records, tours, TV, their personal lives - in a semi-diary format.<br />As far as the music is concerned, the story is quite complicated and not always easy to follow, but that is no fault of the author. Before they became Abba, they were four separate acts, each with their own careers and signed to different record companies. Once they came together as Abba, different things were happening in Japan, Australia, Germany, Sweden and elsewhere with different records - even before 1974. That was the year that Abba won Eurovision and charted for the first time in Britain and America.<br />There have been many books on Abba and will surely be many more. Despite being a huge Abba fan, this is the first I've read. If you're only going to have one book on Abba, it might as well be this one.ing a huge Abba fan, this is the first I've read. If you're only going to have one book on Abba, it might as well be this one.	2003-12-26
US	50345651	R1TSCUCF27ZT55	0900599898	68610916	A Long Time Gone: History of Defunct Race Courses Since 1900	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Former British racecourses	This book sets out to describe the ninety or so British racecourse that closed during the twentieth century, often including diagrams.  At the back of the book are a list of British racecourses that closed before 1900 and a list of closed Irish racecourses.<br /><br />The racecourses described include some that, in their prime, were quite important, especially Manchester and Hurst Park, both of which closed in the early 1960's, although the majority were minor racecourses. Another noteworthy racecourse was Gatwick, one of many that were seized by the Government for use as airfields during the Second World War. Unlike most of the others, Gatwick never returned to its former use as it was used as the site for an international airport.<br /><br />Indeed, this book provides a usefuly study for those who are interested in how land use has changed down the years - roads, schools, housing estates and golf courses are just some of the things that have been built on the sites of closed racecourses. In a few cases, there is more evidence of their former use.<br /><br />The book was extensively researched over seven years, but it has one obvious flaw - the omission of Blaydon - and for that reason, I have to take a star off (very reluctantly - it really is a superb book otherwise). A song was written about a meeting at Blaydon in 1862 that was cancelled because of bad weather - it has since become famous as the anthem of Newcastle United (a club that didn't exist in 1862). This book lists the course among those that closed before 1900, stating that races were held there in 1861, 1864 and 1865. In fact, the final race meeting there was in 1916 (qualifying it for a full entry in this book) - it was abandoned when a riot broke out following the disqualification of a winning horse. It may be that meetings at Blaydon were infrequent, but it seems strange that the author missed this one. An electricity power generating station was built on the site - yet another different use for a closed racecourse.<br /><br />As I write this, no British racecourse has closed since 1981 - that was Stockton, on which a huge shopping complex was built - and there are plans to open at least one completely new racecourse, the first for over seventy years, so the future for British racecourses is bright.<br /><br />Despite the omission of Blaydon, this is an excellent and fascinating book, though its interest is primarily of historical value. If you are interested in the subject, this book is well worth the search.<br /><br />Postscript - the new British racecourse to which I alluded eventually opened in 2008 at Great Leighs, conveniently situated between London, where there are plenty of people, and Newmarket, where there are plenty of horses.s I write this, no British racecourse has closed since 1981 - that was Stockton, on which a huge shopping complex was built - and there are plans to open at least one completely new racecourse, the first for over seventy years, so the future for British racecourses is bright.    Despite the omission of Blaydon, this is an excellent and fascinating book, though its interest is primarily of historical value. If you are interested in the subject, this book is well worth the search.    Postscript - the new British racecourse to which I alluded eventually opened in 2008 at Great Leighs, conveniently situated between London, where there are plenty of people, and Newmarket, where there are plenty of horses.	2003-07-16
US	50345651	R1HELRQ0EGBXH6	0007100183	706021704	George Hamilton IV: Ambassador of Country Music	Books	3	2	3	N	N	International ambassador of country music	George IV has a unique place in country music history that is worth remembering. In his own country, the USA, his track record is good but nothing special. He had a huge pop hit in the fifties (A rose and a Baby Ruth) and a series of country hits in the sixties, the biggest of which was Abilene although Canadian Pacific is arguably the most famous. However, he was nowhere near as successful as Johnny Cash, Merle Haggard, Conway Twitty, Buck Owens, Jim Reeves and George Jones, to name a few other country singers of the sixties.<br />However, George IV got opportunities to sing and promote his music around the world and he made the most of them. Although he did not have any hits in the UK (where there have never been country singles charts - only pop charts), he became a household name via TV and radio appearances, supported by regular concert tours. He also became hugely popular in Canada - he recorded so many Canadian songs that some people actually think he's a Canadian. He also became popular in other countries around the world and was one of the few American singers of any genre to take his music to Eastern Europe during the Cold War.<br />This book tells George IV's story, including plenty about his family and his religion (perhaps too much for me). If you wonder about the IV at the end of his name, you can find the answers here. You not only learn about I, II and III but also about V and (at the end) VI. The amount of name-dropping of all the celebrities he's met is also a bit excessive.<br />By doing more to spread country music around the world than any other individual has ever done, George IV has earned his place in country music history. As a book, this is much less exciting than other biographies I have read. George IV fans will want this book anyway, as will anybody (like me) interested in the spread of country music around the world. But if you're just looking to read a biography of a country singer, there are more exciting stories to read than this one..	2003-07-01
US	50345651	R1SLQHXCQ8CQAG	186105324X	507730627	Horse-Racing's Strangest Races: Extraordinary but True Stories from over 150 Years of Racing History (Strangest Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Interesting book for horse racing fans	This book was written and first published in Britain, so most of the races described happened in Britain, with only a few examples from elsewhere. Nevertheless, it is possible to enjoy the book wherever you are in the world - where they happened is irrelevant. Another point to note is that the book covers races spread over two centuries. Many of the strange things that happened during races in the nineteenth century just could not happen now because regulation is much tighter now.<br /><br />Among the more recent races covered are the Grand Nationals of 1993 (abandoned after a false start) and 1997 (delayed by two days because of a bomb hoax) as well as the day at Ascot when Frankie Dettori rode all seven winners - a case when the races individually were not strange, but the combination of results was noteworthy. But of all the modern races, my favorite is the stun gun case, concerning a horse that seemed all set to win at Royal Ascot when well clear, before suddenly swerving.<br /><br />The ancient races covered include (inevitably) the 1844 Epsom Derby, in which the winner was disqualified because he was a four year old (the race is for three year olds), the 1913 Epsom Derby, in which Emily Davison ran on to the course and was trampled to death by a horse, the 1962 Epsom Derby in which seven horses fell, the 1928 and 1967 Grand Nationals in which only one horse completed the course without mishap (Tipperary Tim and Foinavon respectively) and the 1956 Grand National in which Devon Loch collapsed within sight of winning.<br /><br />There are other Epsom Derbies and Grand Nationals here too, as well as many more modest races in which strange things happen, including where no horse wins and the race was declared void. A fair number of novelty races are also included. On a sad note, the Hong Kong disaster of 1918, in which the stands caught fire with the loss of 604 lives, is also covered - the worst sporting disaster in the world.<br /><br />Scandals are also represented. Quite apart from the 1844 Epsom Derby, these include Trodmore races 1898 (a fake race meeting) as well as Francasal in 1953 and Flockton Grey in 1982 (both cases of horse-swapping).<br /><br />Some of the races described are not strange at all. Star Appeal's victory in the Arc De Triomphe is included, but nothing strange happened, although he was (and still is) the longest priced winner of the race. There are other races whose inclusion could also be questioned, especially as others with more obvious claims have been omitted, like the race at Royal Ascot in the 1970's in which the first three horses past the post (all well clear of the fourth) were all disqualified for interfering with each other and the race given to the fourth horse. In the 1980's, the St Leger had to be switched to Ayr because of holes in the ground at Doncaster. This episode is not included either.<br /><br />Despite these reservations, inevitable with a book of this kind, this should provide plenty of amusement to horse racing fans everywhere. For those interested in other sports, be aware that this is one of a series covering a variety of sports including golf, motor racing, cricket and soccer.psom Derby, these include Trodmore races 1898 (a fake race meeting) as well as Francasal in 1953 and Flockton Grey in 1982 (both cases of horse-swapping).    Some of the races described are not strange at all. Star Appeal's victory in the Arc De Triomphe is included, but nothing strange happened, although he was (and still is) the longest priced winner of the race. There are other races whose inclusion could also be questioned, especially as others with more obvious claims have been omitted, like the race at Royal Ascot in the 1970's in which the first three horses past the post (all well clear of the fourth) were all disqualified for interfering with each other and the race given to the fourth horse. In the 1980's, the St Leger had to be switched to Ayr because of holes in the ground at Doncaster. This episode is not included either.    Despite these reservations, inevitable with a book of this kind, this should provide plenty of amusement to horse racing fans everywhere. For those interested in other sports, be aware that this is one of a series covering a variety of sports including golf, motor racing, cricket and soccer.	2003-06-05
US	50345651	R2B4COMWU3F2UO	0571053718	96990048	The Overloaded Ark	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Still enjoyable nearly forty years on	This book is about a business that, for the most part, no longer exists - the business of collecting animals for display in zoos. Wildlife conservation has changed a lot since then so the kind of expedition that Gerald Durrell and his companion, John, undertook in 1953, described in this book, just could not happen now.<br />Gerald describes how he and John spent several months in Cameroon collecting a variety of animals, birds and reptiles and some of the adventures they had, including the triumphs and disappointments. He acknowledges right at the beginning that the expedition may seem more exciting than it really was, because all the boring aspects have been omitted. Even so, there were enough exciting moments to fill this book.<br />He describes some of the local people, who he mostly got on well with - but of course he did have some problems and we are told about these. He describes some of the creatures he collected, and the disappointment when some died or escaped.<br />My favorite (both at school and now) was a chimpanzee that had already been domesticated. Gerald was asked to look after him before he could be shipped to London. This was no ordinary chimpanzee, as he not only enjoyed smoking cigarettes but was able to light his own using either matches or lighter, and also displayed other characteristics more normally associated with people than with chimpanzees. Always remember that this was 1953.<br /><br />This is a highly entertaining book, which I first read at school, where it was compulsory reading - and it was the only such book that I enjoyed. I still enjoyed it when I read it again recently, after discovering (to my surprise) that it is still available in the UK.	2003-05-05
US	50345651	R24X86NL778Z16	0413772039	663279108	Ascot: The History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliantly written and lavishly illustrated	Sir Peter O'Sulleven claims, in the foreword to this book, that Ascot is the most famous racecourse in the world. Whether it is or not, it has established itself as one of the most important racecourses in Britain over the past 200 years.<br /><br />Ascot's history begins almost 300 years ago, in 1711, but took a long time to establish itself. Documentation of the early history is incomplete - for example, the result of the first race staged there is not known, although a list of all the horses competing was preserved. Apparently, the person who was supposed to record the result didn't turn up to see the race. Such modest beginnings contrast sharply with what Ascot later became.<br /><br />This book, written with the co-operation of the royal family, explains their role down the years. You are not left in any doubt which kings and queens enjoyed horse racing and which ones were uninterested.<br /><br />Ascot only really started to blossom in the reign of King George III, who was the subject of the movie The madness of King George. The king was not interested in horse racing, but his son the Prince Regent was, and it was he (who eventually became King George IV) who made Ascot into a major racecourse, which it has remained ever since. The prince was also responsible for beginning all the pageantry that has now become part of the Ascot scene every June.<br /><br />Despite the royal patronage and the fashions, ultimately it is the racing that most of us are really interested in. Many champion racehorses have competed at Ascot and their exploits are given plenty of coverage. Although not a champion in the true sense of the word, Brown Jack was a very popular horse in the 1920's and a whole chapter is devoted to his exploits.<br /><br />The King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes was inaugurated in 1951 and has now become Ascot's most prestigious race. Run at the end of July, it has been won by some great champions including Ribot, Nijinsky, Mill Reef, Brigadier Gerard, Dahlia (twice), Shergar, Dancing Brave, Lammtarra, Swain (twice), Daylami and Galileo. Plenty of coverage is given to this great race, including the exciting finish in which Grundy beat Bustino.<br /><br />Traditionally, the Gold Cup was Ascot's most prestigious race. Staged on the Thursday of the royal meeting in June, it is run over two and a half miles. It is still a race worth winning, but despite some popular winners such as Sagaro (who won three Gold Cups) and Double Trigger, this race is not particularly important these days. In the nineteenth century, horses who won the Epsom Derby as three-year-olds sometimes ran in the Gold Cup as older horses. They did not always win, but many did, notably Isinglass, the Triple Crown winner of 1893, as a five-year-old in 1895. No modern Epsom Derby winner would attempt to win the Gold Cup; the last one to try was the 1969 winner, Blakeney. The Gold Cup is given plenty of coverage in the book.<br /><br />Ascot has also seen plenty of champion milers, including Brigadier Gerard, Kris, Rose Bowl, Warning and Dubai Millennium, while steeplechasing and hurdling also get coverage. Desert Orchid won eight times there, including his thrilling victory over Panto Prince in the 1989 Victor Chandler.<br /><br />A chapter is devoted to the extraordinary day in 1996 when Frankie Dettori rode all seven winners, a feat unlikely to be matched in my lifetime.<br /><br />This is a magnificent book, well worth the price, which tells you everything you need to know (up to the time of publication) about one of the greatest racecourses in the world., Lammtarra, Swain (twice), Daylami and Galileo. Plenty of coverage is given to this great race, including the exciting finish in which Grundy beat Bustino.    Traditionally, the Gold Cup was Ascot's most prestigious race. Staged on the Thursday of the royal meeting in June, it is run over two and a half miles. It is still a race worth winning, but despite some popular winners such as Sagaro (who won three Gold Cups) and Double Trigger, this race is not particularly important these days. In the nineteenth century, horses who won the Epsom Derby as three-year-olds sometimes ran in the Gold Cup as older horses. They did not always win, but many did, notably Isinglass, the Triple Crown winner of 1893, as a five-year-old in 1895. No modern Epsom Derby winner would attempt to win the Gold Cup; the last one to try was the 1969 winner, Blakeney. The Gold Cup is given plenty of coverage in the book.    Ascot has also seen plenty of champion milers, including Brigadier Gerard, Kris, Rose Bowl, Warning and Dubai Millennium, while steeplechasing and hurdling also get coverage. Desert Orchid won eight times there, including his thrilling victory over Panto Prince in the 1989 Victor Chandler.    A chapter is devoted to the extraordinary day in 1996 when Frankie Dettori rode all seven winners, a feat unlikely to be matched in my lifetime.    This is a magnificent book, well worth the price, which tells you everything you need to know (up to the time of publication) about one of the greatest racecourses in the world.	2003-04-15
US	50345651	R3VJDWXA9M5RNC	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	6	8	N	N	An incredible story of unlikely heroes	Although I am a huge horse racing fan, I ignored this book for a long time, but I realised that it must be good when somebody with no interest in the sport told me what a fantastic book it is. And so it proved.<br />Seabiscuit, a temperamental horse, began his career with the top trainer of the day. Despite sensing that Seabiscuit had talent, that trainer was unable to get him to do much and his owner sold him cheaply. His new owner moved him to a small stable where the trainer was able to get to know the horse intimately.<br />The new owner, trainer and jockey are all interesting characters and the book goes into a fair amount of detail about them. The owner was an extrovert type who originally made his money selling automobiles in San Francisco in the years following the 1906 earthquake. By contrast, the trainer was an introvert who had worked with horses all his life but had little experience of horse racing. The jockey had been very successful but it was thought his best days were behind him, as dieting and heavy drinking took their toll, and continued to do so. Another jockey often had to substitute for him.<br />Under the new regime, Seabiscuit enjoyed himself and eventually emerged as California's champion. However, in those days the best American racing was on the east coast and their champion was War Admiral. The public demanded a match but a combination of injuries to Seabiscuit, personality clashes and bad weather (Seabiscuit did not like running in rain-softened ground) meant that the match did not happen for a log time. It was certainly worth waiting for when it did.<br />The book continues to end of Seabiscuit's racing career, when he finally wins the race his owner wanted him to win, and also includes an epilogue telling us what happened to the main characters afterwards.<br />This is a fascinating story about overcoming adversity. Horse racing is full of such stories - some of you may remember the story of Bob Champion and Aldaniti, which was made into a film - but Laura's writing style certainly makes the most of this story. While it gives an insight into the world of horse racing as it existed back then, it does not give any more detail than it needs to. All these factors explain why this book appeals to both horse racing fans and also to so many people who have no interest in the sport.to a film - but Laura's writing style certainly makes the most of this story. While it gives an insight into the world of horse racing as it existed back then, it does not give any more detail than it needs to. All these factors explain why this book appeals to both horse racing fans and also to so many people who have no interest in the sport.	2003-04-13
US	50345651	R17EADB2YCLG7O	1855349825	441185564	The Complete Poems and Songs of Robert Burns	Books	5	109	110	N	N	Comprehensive collection of his work	This book contains all Robert's poems, including epitaphs, plus all his song lyrics, but not the sheet music, because he did not compose any music. Of course, there is one song of his, Auld lang syne, which is extremely well known, although not many people are aware that he was its writer. This is not a biography, though some brief historical details are provided. If you want an in-depth biography, you must look elsewhere.<br /><br />Robert Burns wrote about every topic you could imagine  - love, nature, politics, people, anything that was topical in the late eighteenth century. Among the most famous poems are A red red rose (including the line Till a' the seas gang dry my dear), To a louse (including the line O wad the Power some giftie gie us) and To a mouse (including the line The best laid schemes o' mice and men).<br /><br />The poems and songs are presented chronologically in the order of date written. Personally, I would have preferred the book divided into chapter, with each chapter covering a different theme, but it doesn't really matter. There is an index of first lines as well as an index of titles.<br /><br />A glossary is provided to allow translation from Scottish to English. People sometimes joke that Britain and America are two countries separated by a common language, but this glossary is a reminder that the same can be said about Scotland and England. I cannot say how easy or difficult you will find the dialect. I was born of Scottish parents so I learned a bit as a child even though I was raised in England. Hopefully, you will find most of it reasonably straightforward with a bit of practice. The quality of the poetry makes it well worth the effort.<br /><br />Within the main book, at the bottom of each page, footnotes are provided to set the context of the poem or song where this is deemed useful. For example, Ballad of the American war has footnotes giving brief details of events between 1775 and 1784, so you will immediately realise that the poem doesn't just focus on the war itself, but also its aftermath.em doesn't just focus on the war itself, but also its aftermath.	2003-04-08
US	50345651	RX71XCHJOIXVJ	0785811052	453957806	The New Illustrated Encyclopedia of Railways	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Almost 200 years of locomotive development	This lavishly illustrated tome covers all types of locomotive from many countries around the world. Understandably, steam locomotives dominate and rightly so, although diesel and electric locomotives are given their due space.<br />The first section, over 160 pages long, covers the main history of the locomotive, covering broad and narrow gauge, industrial and war locomotives, rack railways, compound and flexible wheelbase locomotives, as well as discussing aspects of various components, such as cabs, chimneys, wheels and brakes. Streamlining, tanks and tenders are all explained. There is even a small chapter on failed ideas. We can laugh at these now, but some ideas that succeeded were probably once laughed at. Diesel and electric locomotives are also discussed, including monorails and multiple unit trains.<br />Following this section, other sections are devoted to particular types of locomotive. The section on steam tender locomotives is even longer than the first section - almost 180 pages - but it is these locomotives that have always aroused the greatest interest, so that is as it should be. Other sections, covering tank, articulated, electric, diesel and gas turbine locomotives, are much shorter. They are followed by a section titled self-propelled trains, but that is a rather grand title for what I've always known as multiple-unit trains.<br />At the back of the encyclopedia are various tables and an index. The table on wheel notation names is particularly useful for anybody unfamiliar with all the names. You don't take long studying steam locomotives to learn that a Pacific has a 4-6-2 arrangement, but some of the other names are less well known.<br />This is a fascinating book for anybody interested in locomotive history.	2003-02-19
US	50345651	RZCH50TK7FGDT	1581500548	492342019	Dynasties; Great Thoroughbred Stallions	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fascinating book about American thoroughbred bloodlines	Edward Bowen has selected what he thinks are the most important sires of the twentieth century and devoted a chapter to each, giving their own achievements and those of their descendants, as well as information about some of the more interesting people involved. To this end, he has included one or two sire lines that might not actually be the most important, but where their story is particularly interesting. In his introduction, the author acknowledges that the Challenger sire line was selected instead of the Count Fleet or Pharamond lines precisely because it presented a more interesting story. None of them were essential based purely on their importance.<br />Of course, all the essential lines that are still thriving are there, including Nearco and Native Dancer, who between them have each established several important sire lines. Indeed, a significant proportion of the book is devoted to those stallions and their descendants, which include Storm cat, America's leading sire at the turn of the millennium, and Sadlers Wells, Europe's equivalent.<br />This book is not a comprehensive guide to sire lines. Although there are charts near the back of the book giving diagrams of the sire lines covered by the book, they do not list once-important but now extinct lines like the Diomed/Lexington line - a line that was already struggling at the beginning of the twentieth century, but somehow survived into the 1980's. Indeed, there is no diagram of the Herod dynasty at all, although a different branch of it survives in Europe, most notably via the Irish stallion Indian Ridge.<br />Also, the diagrams that are present focus, with few exceptions, on those branches where a stallion was standing in America at the time the book was written. Of course, this is understandable, as it is a book about American bloodlines, but since thoroughbred breeding is international, it is a bit misleading. The Hyperion line is not as close to extinction as the diagram makes it appear, although its long term future is uncertain.<br />Still, I have learned that the best place to look for comprehensive sire line charts is on the internet, which has the advantage of being more up-to-date than any book is ever likely to be. Despite my reservations about the charts, the author is a great storyteller and the charts will be sufficient for most purposes.long term future is uncertain. <br />Still, I have learned that the best place to look for comprehensive sire line charts is on the internet, which has the advantage of being more up-to-date than any book is ever likely to be. Despite my reservations about the charts, the author is a great storyteller and the charts will be sufficient for most purposes.	2003-02-18
US	50345651	R3AMHK9JUYWVOT	0553282816	943744330	The Blooding	Books	5	21	21	N	N	True story of first murder solved by DNA tests	This story is set in three neighbouring villages with which I am familiar. The crimes were committed in the eighties, but I only came to know the villages many years later, when I worked in Narborough (the middle of the three villages) from 1998 to 2002. I heard occasional references to these crimes, although never any in-depth conversations. Even now, the topic is too sensitive, so the only way I could find out what really happened was via this book.<br />Wambaugh gives an excellent account of the crimes and the often futile attempts to solve them. Perhaps occasionally it is more graphic than it needs to be, describing the state of the bodies in intimate detail, but its easy to gloss over that (it is in print, not on film) and there's not too much of that. Some of the main characters, including the policemen and their suspects, are described in great detail. While some may feel that this is just padding, I feel it all helps to make it a good story.<br />Again, plenty of pages are devoted to false leads, but this may help us to understand why detective work is never as simple as we would like it to be. At one point, after the second murder, the police think they've got their man. The parents can't believe that he would do such a thing and it is at that point that the new science of DNA testing is brought in. The parents are convinced their son in innocent. The police are convinced that he is not only guilty of that murder, but also the earlier one. Did the same man commit both murders and was this particular man guilty? The DNA test results eventually provide answers, but to find out what those answers were, you must read the book.	2003-02-08
US	50345651	R1JUT5PIWNUIHZ	0754801675	638602246	The World Encyclopedia of Flags	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The best available book of its kind	I originally bought the first edition and reviewed that version. I've since bought the current edition (only because I was able to do so cheaply) and there aren't a lot of changes, the most noticeable being the different cover artwork, but the few changes inside the book are significant. For example, the incorrect pictures shown for Taiwan and Palestine in the first edition have now been corrected while new flags are shown, including those for Afghanistan (actually a revival of an earlier flag) and Tristan Da Cunha (not represented in the first edition). Other than those and other similar changes, the remainder of my review (listed on Amazon on all editions) applies equally to all editions.<br /><br />To begin with, this is not the book to buy if all you want is a guide to the current flags of each country around the world. You will find those flags here (accurate for when the particular edition was published, except for the mistakes in the earlier edition) but this book contains much more besides. There are many other guides to current flags that are both cheaper and more up to date. One thing you learn about flags is that a new national flag will replace an old one somewhere in the world at reasonably regular intervals because of political changes. After all, flags are the ultimate political symbol. The 1990's saw many changes. The break-up of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia meant lots of new national flags, but South Africa and many other countries also changed their flags.<br /><br />Besides the flags of all nations, you can learn much from this book about the origin and history of flags and about many other flags in current use - regional, local, state and provincial flags, as well as maritime flags, protest flags (like the Basque separatist flag), organizational flags (like the Red Cross) and commercial flags.<br /><br />Of course, even in a book this size, it is not possible to cover everything comprehensively, but the author manages to make the development of flags seem interesting, explaining how various basic designs evolved and were copied by other countries.<br /><br />I have seen the development of the stars and stripes explained and illustrated in greater depth than it is here, but the description here is a good starting point for anybody not familiar with it.<br /><br />For anybody wanting to explore the history of flags, this is the best book available. Even if you buy this, you may still occasionally want to buy a book devoted to current flags to keep up to date with all the changes. That will normally be cheaper than buying an updated edition of this book - I just happened to get lucky., explaining how various basic designs evolved and were copied by other countries.    I have seen the development of the stars and stripes explained and illustrated in greater depth than it is here, but the description here is a good starting point for anybody not familiar with it.    For anybody wanting to explore the history of flags, this is the best book available. Even if you buy this, you may still occasionally want to buy a book devoted to current flags to keep up to date with all the changes. That will normally be cheaper than buying an updated edition of this book - I just happened to get lucky.	2003-02-07
US	50345651	R2T81RWAX171JH	0316857734	105313718	Steeplechasing: A Celebration of 250 Years	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An appreciation of steeplechasing	Steeplechasing is the alternative to flat racing in Ireland (where it was invented) and Britain, but has not generally flourished elsewhere. France, Australia, New Zealand and America are among other countries where it takes place, although the format is sometimes different. Hence, this book is mostly about British racing.<br />It is divided into three main sections - for the races, the people and the horses. The section on the races covers the Grand National at Aintree, the very first steeplechase in Ireland and chapters on hurdling, point to point races, military races and timber races. Timber races are the American equivalent, so that chapter discusses the Maryland Hunt Cup and attempts to introduce such races into England with a race called the Marlborough Cup. Since the book was published, this race has never been run again.<br />The section on people covers the Queen Mother, Vincent O'Brien (best remembered for his flat racing triumphs but an incredible trainer of steeplechasers in the fifties), Martin Pipe and a few other important trainers. The section on horses covers Arkle, Golden Miller, Red Rum, Dawn Run and Desert Orchid among others.<br />The book is lavishly illustrated but it is certainly not comprehensive - there is no mention anywhere of Tingle Creek, one of the most popular steeplechasers ever. There is no statistics section either, though there are plenty of books full of who won what race in what year.<br />The book's title (A celebration) indicates its contents, and as a celebration of steeplechasing, it works well, but anybody wanting to study its history in depth should look elsewhere.	2003-02-03
US	50345651	R1K8KR21JHSYGZ	1852279230	951964863	The Virgin Encyclopedia of Popular Music: Concise 4th Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A treasure trove of information	This all-encompassing volume has about 3,300 entries covering various musical styles of the past century, but with the focus on pop and rock. In the introduction, the author points out that he had to choose from over 20,000 entries in his database - and he is planning to double the size of that database. Unlike so many books of this type, there are no pictures, allowing all the available space to be used for information.<br />Obviously, this book can only cover a selection and cannot please everybody. However, a series of specialist volumes is available, so anybody wanting to focus on jazz, country, heavy metal, sixties, seventies or any of several other genres can find a book covering their particular interest. The author says that you can find artists in these specialist books for which there is no room here. Even so, there are a staggering number of obscure singers and bands here.<br /><br />Once you focus on who is in this book rather than who isn't, it is quite impressive. The book I am reviewing is the fourth edition, so any errors that existed in earlier editions have hopefully been corrected. Each entry contains basic details about the singer or band, their music and the author's opinions, plus a brief discography. Again, this discography is deliberately limited. The idea is to provide an introduction to music that is new to you, so the emphasis is on stuff that was readily available at the time book went to press. Fans of a particular singer or band must look elsewhere to track down all the rarities.<br />My tastes in music are wide, but while my knowledge is extensive, there is a lot I don't know, even about my favorite genres. A book like this is invaluable to me. It is certainly the best book of its kind that I've come across.	2003-02-01
US	50345651	R2COC6I93N0VSO	1842222449	971612260	World Encyclopedia Of Horse Racing	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An interesting book with a wide scope	This fascinating and lavishly illustrated book cannot possibly cover any aspect of horse racing in detail, but it certainly lives up to its grandiose title, although perhaps the word thoroughbred should have been included in the title. Flat racing, steeplechasing and hurdling are all covered, but harness racing and quarter horses are omitted.<br />The first chapter covers the early history of the sport, particularly in Britain, the USA and Australia. The second chapter (Racing around the world) covers many countries where horse racing takes place, from the super-rich to the desperately poor. The next few chapters cover major races, important horses, jockeys, owners and trainers, gambling, controversies and scandals. The final chapter is for general trivia - this is followed by a chronology of events, giving a potted history of the sport.<br />Fans will always argue that some names that were omitted are more important than some that have been included (and I am no exception), but that's the nature of all books which attempt to select the best ever of anything. In any case, all horses and jockeys that have achieved fame with the general public who don't normally follow the sport are here. Among the horses are Arkle, Cigar, Dr Fager, John Henry, Man O' War, Mill Reef, Nijinsky, Red Rum, Sea Bird, Seabiscuit and Secretariat. As you will see, it's a truly international list, including steeplechasers as well as flat racers. The list of jockeys covered is also impressive.<br />As a general overview of racing worldwide, this book serves its purpose (except for the omission of harness and quarter horses) - even the most knowledgeable fans will find stuff here that's new to them - but if you want to know a lot about particular aspects of the sport, you must look elsewhere. This is a great beginning - or addition - to any library of horse racing books.	2003-01-23
US	50345651	RR9LOJ60N9F6M	0316861693	24640360	I Don't Want to Fight	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The ups and downs of Lulu's life	Lulu's career in music has had its ups and downs, just like her life. The sixties were famous for love, drugs and rock'n'roll, but although Lulu enjoyed life back then, she was a late starter on the first, only sampled the second a couple of times, and her music deviated from the third fairly quickly. Nevertheless, Lulu's story is interesting in its own way. I read the whole book in one day and I never got bored. Each aspect of her life is covered in just enough detail so that I wasn't left thinking that I needed to know more.<br />The book begins telling us about her parents and her childhood, explaining that they had more money than most of the families around them and why. Throughout the book, it is obvious that her parents, her sister and her two brothers are all very important to her.<br />Lulu traces her career in music, television and on stage and screen, explaining how she was sometimes persuaded to do things against her better judgement. As I always suspected, she is much more interested in R+B than some of the fluffy pop music she was sometimes expected to record. Lulu describes some of the different records she made and the different people she worked with.<br />Fans will be particularly interested to know about some of the music that is sitting in record company vaults, as yet unreleased. No specifics are given, but it's clear that there is some more music (apart from the tracks that were released) that Lulu did with David Bowie in the seventies, plus an album of new recordings that would have been released in 1997 but for record company personnel changes.<br />Lulu also talks about her two failed marriages - the first to Maurice Gibb of the Bee Gees and the second to a leading London hairdresser. It was this second marriage that yielded her only child, her son Jordan. It appears that Lulu still gets on well with both men despite their past problems.<br />Apparently, Lulu nearly lost her life twice, once as a child when the rowing boat she was in driftedout to sea, and once in the eighties when she was in a head-on collision driving in thick fog. Later, she had a problem with her voice and at one time it seemed that she would never sing again. Fortunately, she made a full recovery.<br />Lulu deliberately did not write her autobiography until both her parents had died, and it becomes clear early on why. If you have any interest in Lulu's music, there is enough packed into her life to make the book worth reading.<br />This review is based on the UK edition which has a different cover.	2003-01-03
US	50345651	R2V3E6SDO4MBWK	0898200830	987884275	Pop Memories 1890-1954: The History of American Popular Music	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	If you're interested in pre-Elvis music, this helps a lot	Music charts never tell the whole story as anybody who has followed pop charts of any era will know. They serve as an approximate guide to what music was fashionable at the time.<br />It is particularly important to note that the economic depression of the thirties meant that a lot of singers chose to do radio broadcasts rather than make a lot of records which few could afford. This explains why Frances Langford (for example) was extremely popular yet had few hits.<br />The other thing you notice is that then, as now, some of the songs you think would have been massive hits (like Moonlight in Vermont and Georgia on my mind) were only modest hits, while other songs which were massive hits appear to have sunk without trace.<br />Despite all that, this is a valuable source of information for anybody seriously interested in the music of the pre-Elvis era, although very little music is currently available from the early 1920's or before.<br />I don't think this book could be improved much. Death dates updated? Nice but hardly essential. Pictures? If you buy the music, you'll probably get a picture of the singer. As to the very early artists, photography was also primitive, so pictures may not be available, unless paintings or drawings are available.<br />There is one improvement which would be really useful - include all the later hits from 1955 onwards for major artists who had a lot of hits up to 1954. Wouldn't it be great to have the complete hits record of Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Doris Day and other major artists in one volume?<br />But that's a minor point - the information here is not available anywhere else. It's well worth the price if you're into this sort of music.	2002-07-07
