US	50349210	R2P2RRPGR1HRHX	0679759255	521882244	When She Was Good	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Philip Roth's latter-day realism	Although I've read almost all of Philip Roth's books, this is the first pre-\\"Portnoy\\" novel I've tackled.  Very strange to think this book was written by the same man.  Although there are occasional glimmers of what was to come in Roth's later novels, in its spare style and stark realism, \\"When She Was Good\\" feels like the work of some latter-day Sinclair Lewis or Dreiser. <br /> <br />Which is a problem for me, because I don't ordinarily enjoy novels of the \\"realist\\" camp.  Too often, the writer sets out with an agenda or point to prove and everything--setting, plot, character--is bent to the author's whim, making the novel itself feel like a sham.  To some extent, that is the case here.  It seems we are to sympathize with \\"good\\", honest, duped Lucy Nelson--surrounded by a cast of miserable grotesques, she is the only one who sees through the phoniness to arrive at the truth.  And indeed, there is no one (I repeat: NO ONE) in this novel, save Lucy, who is likeable (one may pity them, but it's impossible to LIKE them).  Problem is--I didn't like Lucy, either.  She's too psychotic to be believable, too cold to be endearing, too inconsistent to be relatable.  At one point she pats herself on the back for \\"saving\\" her son's life (even though she would have aborted the child had she found a doctor willing to do so)--she plays the role of martyr, but is really nothing of the sort.  Lucy is a toy in Roth's hands, easily manipulated, and she never comes across as the three-dimensional character she needs to be to carry the novel.  This is less the fault of Roth's writing as it is his realist-agenda.  This is novel-writing by-the-numbers and while it's good as far as realist novels go (better than Lewis, I'd say, not as good as Dreiser), it can never really be a great novel. <br /> <br />This may be the last realist novel ever written, in fact.  The \\"school\\" seemed to have died out by the '60s, and perhaps that's why Roth sets his novel in the '40s.  Still, it feels at times like a literary relic.  It's a fascinating read for fans of Roth's later work; but if Roth had never gone on to become famous with \\"Portnoy,\\" this book would quickly have gone out-of-print and been completely forgotten.	2005-08-30
US	50349210	R1MD5RV39SSZRT	037571412X	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Poignant and heartfelt	Closer to three-and-a-half stars.  An amazing thing happened to Philip Roth in the 1990s.  While his contemporaries--Updike, Styron and Mailer--were either hibernating or spinning their wheels, Roth was reinventing himself.  His novels of the '80s were concerned primarily with writing--that is, the writer as narrator, and about sex; and though at least one of the novels (\\"The Counterlife\\") was very fine, Roth's books seemed rather narrow in scope.  But beginning with his memoir \\"Patrimony\\" in '91 and continuing on, Roth majorly reinvented his fiction.  His fictional landscapes have expanded.  He has moved outside the \\"writing about writing\\" trap so many highbrow authors fall into, and has written about the world around him.  His prose is as indignant, as over-the-top (sometimes), as funny as ever--but his literary scope is much wider.  Surely this is why his latest novels have gained a wide readership and all of America's major literary awards. <br /> <br />\\"The Dying Animal\\", at first glance, seems a throwback to the Roth of the '80s.  It's a book about sex, no question.  The author is an elderly man with a fondness for young women (who somehow find him irresistible) and a seemingly inexhaustible sexual appetite.  All of it seems recycled (and, given the narrator's age, unbelievable), until one realizes that Roth is treating these themes in a very different way.  The deep sadness that runs through this novel is relatively new to Roth's writing and appears to have originated in his '91 memoir, \\"Patrimony.\\"  I know it's dangerous to make inferences about authors given their written product (Zuckerman taught us that, if nothing else!), but Roth is not a young man anymore and his latest novels, \\"The Dying Animal\\" among them, portray older men coming to grips with their mortality and trying to make sense of the lives they have led and the world around them.  That is what David Kepesh is doing here, though he fights with all his might not to do it.  He wants to continueliving the life of a sexual miscreant, but the mind and body (and, dare one say it? the heart), won't let him.  He's becoming, ever so gradually, the kindly, harmless old man he never wanted to be.  Of course, he resists it vigorously--and this is where Roth's impassioned, angry prose works beautifully--but faced with death and decay everywhere, he knows it's a losing battle. <br /> <br />Coming off the high of his Americana trilogy (and the literary peak of \\"The Human Stain\\"), this book may seem slight in size and scope, and it is.  It may not be one of Roth's very best, but it's very good nonetheless, and every bit worth a read.  It is most definitely NOT a recycling of his old books.  (In fact, a warning is in order:  if you've read \\"The Professor of Desire\\" already, forget everything you knew about David Kepesh, because the character's history has changed markedly in this novel.)	2005-08-23
US	50349210	R2BPO5BBF61GL3	0679725229	693170972	Ada, or Ardor: A Family Chronicle	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The summation of an artist's life's work	Yikes.  Where does one begin a review of a book like \\"Ada\\"?  There's no question that this book represents the summation of Nabokov's career as a writer.  If you've read most of his earlier work, the experience of reading this book will be similar to watching an ingenious puzzle come together in brilliant colors.  Nabokov literally creates his own world (and reality) here.  In mind-boggling prose, he tells the love story of Van and Ada, siblings and soul-mates.  Along the way, he tinkers with the fabric of time (and even attempts to philosophically define It) as he hurls obstacle after obstacle in the path of his ill-crossed lovers.  What emerges is an incredibly rich story that is alternately hilarious and touching (and, of course, thought-provoking).  Admirers of \\"Lolita\\" will not be surprised to learn that Nabokov tells his story without the slightest trace of moralizing.  He is somehow able to accomplish the incredible task of making readers sympathize (and even root for) his self-absorbed siblings without condemning or condoning their behavior.  The book feels like a surreal blend of \\"Anna Karenina\\" and Proust's \\"Remembrance of Things Past\\"--both of which appear in the text itself.  It is the crowning accomplishment of a literary legend. <br /> <br />That said, \\"Ada\\" is not my favorite Nabokov novel.  Because it is the encapsulation of his work, it features both his strengths and his weaknesses.  If you grab hold of this book, you'd better steel yourself for 600 pages of perpetual punning and endless alliteration.  Be prepared for passages in French and Russian (only some of which are translated).  Be prepared for lengthy digressions.  Be prepared for Nabokov's calling attention to his own penetrating intellect (tooting his own horn, so to speak).  He was not a humble writer (read \\"Strong Opinions\\" if you dare) and some of \\"Ada\\" smacks of erudition for its own sake.  But if you're already a Nabokov fan, none of this will surprise you.  You will take the shortcomings with the incredible strengths and be happy you did. <br /> <br />I guess what I'm saying is--don't make this the first Nabokov novel you read.  And be prepared to take your time.  I'm already anticipating having a second-go at this novel at some point in the not-so-distant future.	2005-08-14
US	50349210	RMDOES4MSJE2L	0316353299	53525621	Blue Highways: A Journey into America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hilarious yet honest insight into modern America	This book had been on my \\"to read\\" list for some time--fairly low, because travelogues are not usually my cup of tea.  But after seeing the very excellent interview with the engaging Mr. Least Heat-Moon on BookTV last weekend, it hurtled to the top.  Having just finished it, I can do nothing but give the author props for a very funny, insightful (and at times, even moving) chronicle of modern America, as seen from the backroads.   <br /> <br />What is most astonishing about this book is that every observation, every encounter, every description rings honest.  Any number of writers could have tackled this assignment, using it as an opportunity for silly or sentimental navel-gazing.  Mr. LH-M keeps it real.  He lets the people speak for themselves.  He provides enough details about his own life and personal crises to establish himself as an interesting (and interested) narrator, but he never loses sight of the country around him.  He provides vivid descriptions of the ever-changing scenery but does not get bogged down in adjective-overdrive.  Those he interviews are a fascinating mix of the poor and middle and upper-middle class:  thinkers and philosophers and laborers and \\"just plain folks\\" who live in places most of us will never visit.  Though Mr. LH-M is a restless wanderer and does not remain in any locale long, he does not miss interesting side-opportunities that present themselves.  He learns about hang-gliding in Washington, syruping in New Hampshire, joins a fishing crew for a day off the coast of Maine, and along the way hears tales of small-town America and of the gradual movement (which has grown only faster in the last 25 years) towards sweeping most of America into the net of suburban sprawl.  This book provides good evidence why the trend should be resisted. <br /> <br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  Calling it a \\"travelogue\\" is an injustice in many ways, because it fails to capture the deeply human aspect of the author's chronicle.  Buyand read this book.  You will be glad you did.	2005-08-12
US	50349210	RDRLWXH80B98J	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A worthy bookend to McCarthy's border novels	McCarthy is, without question, one of the best writers at work in America today.  \\"No Country for Old Men\\" is a significant addition to his already-impressive body of work.   <br /> <br />As I was reading, it struck me that NCFOM serves as a kind of bookend to McCarthy's Western novels, beginning with the tremendous \\"Blood Meridian\\" in 1985, and continuing in the '90s with the Border Trilogy.  \\"Blood Meridian\\" is a cold-stone glimpse of the West as it really was, as it was really \\"won\\"--it depicts a country founded on violence and bloodshed, where man has banished God and mortgaged his own soul for the sake of an earthly bounty.  The brutal, amoral Judge Holden is the driving force of that novel--in NCFOM, the role is filled by Anton Chigurh, the articulate-though-remorseless killer who believes in nothing and so has nothing to fear or to lose.  Chigurh is a character, but he is also an icon.  He is a \\"new kind\\" of criminal, the product of a society that has lost its soul and spirit.  The pessimistic view McCarthy paints of America (and all humanity) in this novel is only slightly leavened by the character of Sheriff Bell, whose tortured soul-searching reminds us of a day when morals (in the humanistic sense) were, indeed, absolute.  A throwback to traditional values, the Bell character is an absolute delight and an anomaly in McCarthy's fiction. <br /> <br />NCFOM does seem, in many ways, to solidify and bring to a conclusion the vision McCarthy first revealed in \\"Blood Meridian.\\"  It will be fascinating to see where he takes his fiction next.  If only we didn't have to wait so long!	2005-07-20
US	50349210	RTX03F8WNU6OG	0060557559	5482241	The Known World: A Novel	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Overly-hyped, but a good read nonetheless	I get a kick out of watching literary critics leapfrog over each other to praise the latest &quot;important&quot; book to hit store shelves. Usually I am unmoved by hyperbole, but the hype surrounding &quot;The Known World&quot; finally got to me. While the book is, indeed, a good read, it is by no means a literary masterpiece.  <br />  <br /> As other reviewers have noted, the one novelty TKW has going for it is its treatment of &quot;black-on-black&quot; slavery. (Apparently this interesting twist automatically renders the book &quot;morally complex,&quot; or so the critics would have you believe.) But in Jones's hands, this aspect of the novel seems more like a gimmick than a deep exploration of an interesting historical aberration. Henry Townsend, the fulcrum on which this book allegedly pivots (or teeters, as the case may be) is the most interesting character. How and why Henry became a black slaveowner should have been the focus of the novel; but Jones gives him only the most cursory literary attention, turning his sights instead to a large supporting cast of largely one-dimensional characters. In fact, the characters are so one-dimensional that, despite the countless tragedies Jones heaps upon them, very little in the way of genuine emotion or empathy is ever generated for them. Similarly, the plot &quot;twists&quot; Jones throws at the reader are of the stock variety: if you've read enough books and seen enough movies about slavery, you'll know the litany of tragedies to expect.  <br />  <br /> Alas, TKW is yet another fairly well-written book that fails to find its footing, opting too often for the superficial &quot;Hollywood treatment&quot; instead of delving into the &quot;complex moral&quot; issues that are clearly waiting to be mined. Comparisons of Jones to Faulkner and Styron are, obviously, misguided; although I don't doubt Jones's serious intentions in writing this novel, unlike Faulkner and Styron, his book is not a literary success (although it isundoubtedly a commercial success; I'm sure it's already been optioned for a movie). <br />  <br /> That said, the book *is* well-written. It did hold my interest. I enjoyed Jones's nimble manipulation of time and scenery. If Oprah was still choosing contemporary novels for her book club, this one undoubtedly would have made the list. Let that be your guide in deciding whether to read TKW.	2004-07-22
US	50349210	R3ERU54QCOCXF6	0940322234	390868129	Morte D'Urban (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A quietly magnificent exploration of faith and doubt	&quot;Morte D'Urban&quot; belongs to a long list of unfairly neglected works of the last century.  As the Amazon review notes, perhaps anonymity is inevitable for a book whose cast is comprised 75% of Catholic priests and brethren.  The book's jacket describes &quot;Morte D'Urban&quot; as a comic masterpiece, which I feel does some disservice to both the reader and the book.  The book *is* funny, yes.  But it's funny in a very dry and very subtle (for the most part) and ... very Midwestern way.  Though Powers does, on occasion, paint his characters with too broad a stroke, they are by no means caricatures.  Urban is a wonderfully complex title character--simultaneously worldly and devout, well-meaning but sometimes weak, humble yet proud.  And the events of the book, though they occasionally have a slapstick feel (I won't, like the book's Introduction, spoil anything for the reader), the plot is really a series of well-crafted scenes building up to the final epilogue.  Poor Father Urban.  One cannot help but rue his fate, even as one can see it coming down the pike.  <br />I couldn't help but compare this book to the numerous others I've read which (supposedly) take as their theme religious hypocrisy--particularly Sinclair Lewis's &quot;Elmer Gantry.&quot;  This book is infinitely better than any I've read so far.  Powers humanizes his characters--he reveals their many flaws without condemning them; he does not stack his deck against religion, but shows how difficult it is to be truly devout in a world such as ours (and this book was written in the 1950s!).  Check it out and let's keep this book in print!	2004-07-19
US	50349210	R2I04HZ11N8HV8	0060599235	805503696	Dylan's Visions of Sin	Books	4	44	49	N	N	A fascinating labor of love	Bob Dylan changed music (and the art of songwriting) forever in the 1960s.  His continuing popularity is a testament both to the timelessness of his art, as well as to his uncanny ability to remake himself and his music, year after year.  Dubbed the \\"poet laureate of rock-n-roll,\\" Dylan's work has received more serious academic attention than any other folk/folk-rock musician out there, and for very good reason.  Now comes Christopher Ricks, a well-known poetry scholar, to compare Dylan to some of the greatest poets ever:  Wordsworth, Donne, Tennyson.  The result is fascinating.  I find it hard to believe that anyone could read this book and walk away from it without a renewed admiration for Bob Dylan and his music.<br />The book's structure has Ricks analyzing Dylan's songs according to the seven deadly sins, the four virtues and the three graces.  This somewhat arbitrary classification feels sometimes strained, as Ricks struggles to pigeon-hole songs into one category or another.  But far more fascinating than this academic chore is Ricks' exploration of the deep poetic and Biblical roots of some of Dylan's most popular tunes.  With obvious love for his subject (and subject matter), Ricks shows, time and again, how Dylan makes use of the Great Poets in fashioning his unique and often haunted lyrics.  Revealed is a musician who is not only a poet in his own right, but a well-read and thoughtful writer, who somehow accomplished the impossible:  fashioning intelligent, thought-provoking music for a world obsessed with vapid vocals and meaningless \\"pop\\" standards.<br />Two minor flaws with the book.  First:  Ricks neglects a number of Bob's best songs--songs with fantastic lyrics and rhyme, songs that would seem to fit into his sin/virtue/grace framework perfectly (i.e., \\"Visions of Johanna,\\" \\"Where Are You Tonight?\\", \\"Foot of Pride,\\" \\"Black Diamond Bay,\\" \\"Jokerman\\").  Of course, with over 500 songs to choose from, I suppose it's inevitable that some will be neglected.  Still...  <br />Second:  Ricks is a fan of wordplay.  Every page of the book is pregnant with puns, to the point where it becomes annoying.  Too often, one is distracted from Dylan's brilliance by Ricks' literary showboating.  Clearly a follower of the Vladimir Nabokov School of Alliterative Prose, Ricks struggles mightily for the appearance of cleverness, but his textual twists and turns frequently fall flat.<br />All in all, however, a wonderful (and serious) analysis of our greatest poet/songwriter, by a well-respected scholar.  May Ricks' book be a launching pad for further serious studies of Dylan's work.	2004-06-23
US	50349210	ROQCBEO2XXMNT	0306812312	342050805	A Simple Twist Of Fate: Bob Dylan and The Making of Blood on The Tracks	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting but overlong	This is an interesting book that could have benefitted from a serious edit.  The authors clearly respect and admire Dylan's work (co-author Odegard was a member of the Minneapolis musicians who reworked five of BOTT's ten tracks), and the interviews they have conducted with the BOTT musicians are fascinating for what they show about how this legendary album was put together.  Throughout, Dylan remains a shadowy figure, glimpsed briefly through the eyes of those lucky enough to be sitting in the New York and Minneapolis studios when BOTT was recorded.  The frustration of the Minneapolis musicians at never receiving due credit for their work comes through clearly, and it's interesting to ponder the reasons for such unnecessary neglect.  The authors have assembled a very interesting, very literate group of interviewees.<br />On the downside, the book is padded with fluff, perhaps to justify its publication in book form instead of as an extended article in &quot;Rolling Stone&quot; or some other such publication.  An entire chapter is dedicated to a potted history of the world at time of BOTT's recording.  But references to Vietnam and Nixon and the gas crisis shed zero light on the importance of this album, which lies in the very fact that, unlike much of Bob's early work, it is *not* overtly political or colored by world events.  Indeed, BOTT is an intensely personal creation; the authors' cursory examination of the Dylans' marital woes at the time provides some key insight into BOTT's genesis, of course, but adds nothing new to what diehard fans already know.<br />At one point, the authors dip into tedious psychobabble, as they try to explain the dynamics of Bob's tense relationship with his younger brother, David.  They even quote a rabbi who points the finger of blame at Jewish-mother syndrome.  Truly a low point in this book.  And the chapter devoted to an analysis/exegisis of each song on BOTT is just plain unnecessary, especially for 99.9% of the readers of thisbook, who are already well-acquainted with the lyrics.<br />In short, a good book about a great album (indeed, one of the greatest), but one that could have been better in half as many words.	2004-04-07
US	50349210	R2NWWPA12H5509	0394718429	815123672	The Counterfeiters: A Novel	Books	3	29	36	N	N	Decent novel, but overrated	Three-and-a-half stars.  Gide's reputation precedes him.  He is generally regarded as one of France's best novelists and is widely admired by American writers as well.  I plunged into this novel eagerly and emerged from it, two days later, with little more than a shrug.  I hesitate to be too critical about books that I read in translation; one never knows how accurately the translator has captured the original work.  <br />All in all, there's nothing really wrong with The Counterfeiters; it reads and feels at times like Dickens and a spate of other nineteenth-century British novels--the cast of characters is rather large, there are ample doses of melodrama, and the story makes use of several nice &quot;coincidences&quot; to tie otherwise disparate storylines together.  It's been said that Gide's style was revolutionary for his day, but it's fair to say that readers today will find it fairly conventional.  The same goes for the book's &quot;scandalous&quot; reputation--there is nothing about The Counterfeiters that will shock or amaze readers in 2003 the way it may have in 1926, when it was first published.  <br />That said, The Counterfeiters is a decent book.  There are moments when the reader feels that Gide has touched upon something greater than the story itself; some cutting observation about the relationship between Art and Morality, or the decline of social morals.  But the material and style is otherwise dated.    I wouldn't discourage anyone from reading this book, if so inclined.  But as for me, six months from now, I'm doubt I'll remember much about it.  It just didn't make much of an impression.	2003-07-09
US	50349210	R3BAUWJ4E4N6OG	0802137954	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	2	10	18	N	N	Great writing, but tedious all the same	(Two-and-half-stars)  There are moments in Donleavy's \\"Ginger Man\\" where his prose sings.  The last chapter is absolutely beautiful.  Too bad it is not representative of the rest of the book.  I have no quibbles with the morality (or immorality) of Sebastian Dangerfield; great literature shouldn't be judged according to its moral content, anyways, in my opinion.  My problem is with what I perceive as a lack of any point or purpose in the narrative.  Donleavy does a fine job of parroting James Joyce's style, but the freshness, ingenuity, and underlying human compassion that makes \\"Ulysses\\" such a wonderful novel are severely lacking here.  Dangerfield is pathetic, just pathetic.  I felt no compassion for him.  Donleavy does not attempt to draw his character as anything more than a lazy, womanizing drunk.  The humor inherent in his situation and character is fully mined in the first few chapter.  That leaves 250+ pages of rambling stream-of-conscious prose which adds little or nothing to the character or the story.  So the book is well-written.  Fine.  But in the words of the Burger King lady, \\"Where's the beef?\\"	2003-06-10
US	50349210	R38ZV2012PG3TB	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Disappointing	(Two-and-a-half-stars)  At one point in his overlong, overwrought memoir, Eggers trumpets the virtues of self-absorption.  \\"My feeling is that if you're not self-obsessed you're probably boring,\\" he writes.  Whatever the truth of that self-serving statement might be, his book is proof-positive that self-absorption alone does not a gripping memoir make.  Eggers and his crew of well-bred neohippie pseudo-philosophers believed themselves, in the mid-90s, to be at the vanguard of a new literary order.  The revolution has been slow in coming, but with the publication of this book and his quarterly magazine, McSweeney's, Eggers's brand of tongue-in-cheek navel-gazing appears to be gathering quite a following among the more literate members of Generation X.  To the extent AHWOSG is predictive of the kind of fiction this \\"movement\\" will produce, however, I consider it a terrible waste.  Eggers is a talented writer, no question.  But instead of employing his substantial gifts in the service of something serious and meaningful, he settles for flip \\"observations,\\" strained irony, and shallow self-indulgence.  Make no mistake--the first chapter of AHWOSG is very, very good and very, very moving.  As for the rest of the book, the strongest parts are those in which Eggers rises above himself to describe or imagine the thoughts and feelings of others-Toph and his parents, most notably.  The rest of the book is, alas, a tedious display of the author's quirks and neuroses and floor plans of his various apartments.  At one point, Eggers makes some genuinely funny observations about MTV's \\"The Real World\\" and its singular role in laying bare the worst of the emptiness and pettiness of Generation X.  But AHWOSG is little more than \\"The Real World\\" in book form, perhaps with a slight boost in intelligence.      I wanted to like this book a great deal.  That it received such glowing praise from almost every literary quarter astounds me.  Maybe my taste in writing is thoroughly passe.  Maybe I miss the days when writers--even ambitious young writers like Eggers and his McSweeney's crew--struggled to distill and encapsulate the world outside themselves.  But this new age of novel-gazing, arch in-jokes, and blatant self-promotion bores me to tears.  This book could have been inestimably better--but only if it was about 300 pages shorter.	2003-04-09
US	50349210	R53KHVLFD8Y4B	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exhaustive, exhausting, rewarding	It's great fun to observe the rancorous--at times vicious--debate this book has engendered among and between its admirers and detractors.  Whatever else might be said of &quot;Ulysses,&quot; it's clear that everyone who has read it (and even those who have not) has an opinion about it.  But for those who are leery of beginning a book of this size and complexity without some guarantee that it is as &quot;GREAT&quot; as its admirers proclaim it to be, I offer these words of advice:  take it slowly, don't get overly bogged down by the unorthodox style, and make a diligent effort to understand what Joyce is trying to say.  It's easy to treat his ramblings as the workings of a drunk or inscrutable genius, and to &quot;force&quot; one's way through the book without getting anything out of it.  I read &quot;Ulysses&quot; for the first time last summer, without annotations and with only a brief on-line summary of each chapter as my guide, and I'm sure I missed an awful lot.  But I loved &quot;Ulysses&quot; nonetheless.  The inventive style, the devious puns, the poetic prose--all of it amounts to a reading experience that will reward the patient and persistent with a tremendous intellectual and aesthetic (if not emotional) payoff.  While it is not my favorite book of all time, I agree with those who say it's the most important novel of the twentieth-century.  It so completely altered the literary landscape of its day that, 80 years after its publication, its effects are still being felt (but not always acknowledged) in the works of contemporary writers.  <br />If you want to read this book only because you've been told it was &quot;great&quot; or to tell others you read it (and thus sound &quot;intelligent&quot;), pick up the Cliffs Notes and save yourself some time.  If you honestly want to understand *why* this book is frequently cited as the best of the twentieth century, dig in.  I plan to revisit &quot;Ulysses&quot; myself in the not-so-distant future.	2003-03-09
US	50349210	RASFF21JKQIV8	0140263454	559606725	The Raven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A hidden treasure	(More like four-and-a-half stars)  It's a shame that this book has not received the exposure it deserves.  Peter Landesman has crafted a careful exploration of small-town tragedy and loss, set against the backdrop of the rugged coast of Maine.  Having lived in the Orr's/Bailey Island region in the past, I was already well-familiar with the area (though not with the real historical events on which the book is based); Landesman does a phenomenal job capturing the landscape and its people without sounding too much like an outsider looking in.  The prose is, at times, astounding--it's remarkable to think &quot;The Raven&quot; is Landesman's first novel; there are subtle echoes here of Faulkner and Joyce, but the style is uniquely the author's own.  Most impressive is his ability to draw with painstaking detail the inner lives of his characters, from brooding Ezra to ghost-plagued Mavis, while maintaining an intricate, fascinating plot.  This book combines the haunting atmosphere of David Guterson's &quot;Snow Falling on Cedars&quot; and the quiet dignity of  Russell Banks' tale of small-town tragedy, &quot;The Sweet Hereafter,&quot; and is every bit as good as either of those books.  I strongly recommend &quot;The Raven.&quot;	2003-02-12
US	50349210	R10E9114HDDGVX	0679732179	912444309	Go Down, Moses	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A prescient, piercing analysis of modern man	As a huge fan of Faulkner, it took me *far* too long to get around to reading this book.  Unlike an earlier reviewer, I think &quot;Go Down Moses&quot; is one of Faulkner's most challenging, difficult works; it is also, however, one of his most compelling.  Through a painstaking account of the history of the McCaslin/Edwards/Beauchamp family, Faulkner explores the sometimes-latent, sometimes-obvious tension and hostility among black and white and Indian and somewhere-in-between in Mississippi from the 1860s to the 1930s.  Isaac McCaslin (&quot;Uncle Ike&quot;) is the focal point of most of these seven stories; he is ten when the novel opens, close to eighty when it closes--he is Faulkner's witness to generations of change, to the scourge of man on the wilderness and the indelible effect of race and ancestry on us all.  &quot;Go Down Moses&quot; is frustrating, humorous, intelligent, profound, enlightening, and vastly ambitious--in short, it is Faulkner at his very best; &quot;The Bear&quot; alone is one of the best novellas in the English language.  Were it not for the irritating, last-minute debut of that talkaholic Gavin Stevens, the book would be flawless.  As it is, though, it's well worth the time and energy to read it, and I could not recommend it more highly.	2002-07-08
US	50349210	R28C5DSO1YCXT8	067972723X	586150064	The Eye	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fascinating and surreal	Closer to four-and-a-half stars.  Spectacular; for a novel that tips in at just over one-hundred pages, \\"The Eye\\" is a marvel of imagery and literary sleight-of-hand.  Nabokov, one of the most deviously ingenious writers of the 20th century, offers this short, but striking insight into the protean nature of human identity.  Through the character of Smurov--a suicide victim whose thoughts go on even after his death--Nabokov explores the psyche of Everyman, the manifold ways in which we perceive ourselves, and are perceived by others.  Standing outside his body, the detached first-person narrator observes himself (Smurov) in his daily interactions with others and longs to learn more about himself by learning how others see him.  But even beyond its philosophical/existential implications, \\"The Eye\\" is simply great fun to read.  Nabokov's writing, even in translation, is beautiful and his deft manipulation of character is unparalleled.  It is unlikely that you will find another novel that delivers as much bang for the literary buck.	2002-04-07
US	50349210	RRPIQ102WC9ZH	0679748997	412488320	Zuckerman Unbound	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Amusing and heartbreaking	Closer to three-and-a-half stars.  &quot;Zuckerman Unbound&quot; is a solid addition to Roth's oeuvre; the story of Nathan Zuckerman's meteoric rise to fame following publication of &quot;Carnovsky&quot; (a novel reminiscent of &quot;Portnoy's Complaint&quot;) is amusing, especially if one considers it at least partly based on Roth's own literary notoriety.  The novel is not as uniformly great as its predecessor, &quot;The Ghost Writer,&quot; yet it possesses a quiet charm all its own, alternately funny and heartbreaking.  The novel's solemn (indeed, grim) ending illustrates the real-world impact of an author's vocation in fiction.  There's much to enjoy about this book, whether or not one is a fan of Roth in general.	2002-04-03
US	50349210	R2H1SXCJQUMZTO	0679749020	470710434	The Anatomy Lesson	Books	3	6	10	N	N	An exasperating conclusion to an ambitious trilogy	Closer to two-and-a-half-stars.  \\"The Anatomy Lesson\\" illustrates much of what I don't care for in Roth's writing (and I *do* like much of what he writes).  Nathan Zuckerman--who, in the first two novels of the trilogy, comes across as a nicely-layered character, possessing both a literary-romantic's heart and a vein of silent suffering for the pain his writing inadvertantly caused his family--is rendered starkly one-dimension in \\"The Anatomy Lesson\\"; he is, in fact, little more than Roth's stock character:  sexually depraved, self-centered, fond of farce and farcical philosophizing, and obnoxiously loquacious.  The ceaseless talktalktalk in this novel is irritating more than enlightening, and the various subplots and supporting characters are unconvincing and, frankly, often uninteresting.  By the end of the novel, I could not wait for Zuckerman to zip his yapper; an unfortunate way to conclude what is otherwise a masterful trilogy.	2002-04-03
US	50349210	R1XBIR3SCXM8XH	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Spectacular--a quiet marvel	Kazuo Ishiguro's writing in &quot;Remains&quot; is as near to perfection as I think it is possible for an author to come.  Stevens, the detached-yet-not-so-detached English butler, deserves a place among literature's greatest first-person narrators; it is impossible not to be moved by his enduring loyalty, his quiet but desperate need to justify his employer's actions, his inability to shed the code of gentility bred into him by his father and by his unique social position, and his longing to always do and say and think and feel the &quot;right thing.&quot;  It is Ishiguro's flawless writing that makes all of this come through clearly, cleanly, and without the need for literary bells and whistles.  &quot;Remains&quot; is the epitome of &quot;restrained&quot; writing and the plot--which weaves in and out of time, as Stevens dissembles and eventually faces the truth about himself and his past--is magnificent.  Needless to say, I highly recommend this book.	2002-03-26
US	50349210	R625WP5P49GFC	0679748989	655716976	The Ghost Writer	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A solid, memorable work	&quot;The Ghost Writer&quot; is not a towering work of a literature and is probably destined to be overshadowed by some of Roth's more well-known and outrageous literary experiments.  Yet nonetheless, it is a lean, engrossing, flawlessly-written book with striking passages on nearly every page.  The simple thought-experiment Roth undertakes here is nothing short of brilliant and the characters are all beautifully realized.  There is not an aspiring writer out there who will not enjoy this book and sympathize with its narrator, Nathan Zuckerman.  &quot;The Ghost Writer&quot; is not a tour-de-force; it is not breathtaking or overly-profound.  It's just a good read, pure and simple--a very solid exploration of the relationship between fact and fiction, and probably the most well-written book of Roth's I've read so far.	2002-03-26
US	50349210	R28MHO8446PSNB	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Shocking and eloquent	Some excellent reviews have already been written here on Amazon, so I will make mine brief.  \\"Blood Meridian\\" is not an easy read in any sense:  scenes of shocking brutality are interspersed with weighty philosophical ponderings and unbeatable scenery-setting.  McCarthy is, for my money, one of the very best American writers ever and there is no better showcase than \\"Blood Meridian.\\"  How an author can maintain such unblemished perfection for over three-hundred pages is a mystery.  The problem, however, is that three-hundred pages is a little too much of a good thing--the plot (what little there is) is simply too thin to sustain even such exceptional writing.  Massacre after massacre, drunken binge after drunken binge -- at times, everything seems to blend together.  Violence is violence is violence and while some scenes are more horrific than others, McCarthy's commentary regarding the heinous acts men are capable of committing is made early on.  Still, the unforgettable, tightly-written ending is ample payoff.  Whatever else may be said for the novel, it will certainly make one look at the world in a different light.	2002-03-22
US	50349210	R3RGMRZK03MXVB	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A let-down	The &quot;Rabbit&quot; legend has been so inflated in American literature, perhaps it was impossible for Updike's novel to live up to my expectations.  In any case, I finally got around to reading &quot;Rabbit, Run&quot; and was quite disappointed.  As novels go, it's perfectly fine: a simple story of a young man itching to shed his ordinary, middle-class, suburban life for some nebulous nirvana of love and excitement.  The problem:  I found Rabbit remarkably irritating and shallow, and the supporting cast (Ruth excepted) one-dimensional and unremarkable.  The prose, with occasional exceptions, is drab and lifeless--perhaps it was a stylistic choice made by Updike to complement his dreary story, but I doubt it.  Suburban malaise, the restlessness of American Everyman, marital hypocrisy--all of it has been done, redone, and re-redone in American literature before (talk about redux), and often with far better results (check out Richard Yates' &quot;Revolutionary Road&quot; for a glimpse of an unusually brilliant example of this type of novel).  Maybe &quot;Rabbit, Run&quot; was sharper when first published in 1960; but as a reader in 2002, I am unimpressed.  There's nothing in particular wrong with this book; but in my opinion, there's nothing much extraordinary about it either.	2002-03-10
US	50349210	R35TBYP3K8F328	0679750290	385867085	Operation Shylock : A Confession (Vintage International)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Ingenious!	Roth is the undefeated (probably undefeatable) champion of literary experimentation, and Operation Shylock is perhaps his most successful, most outrageous experiment to date. The author-as-character, fact-as-fiction-as-fact motif has been done before, but rarely with such skill and never with such hilarious results. It's part international espionage, part political commentary, part cultural exposition, part farce, and all parody; Roth's egotistical, though often self-depracating voice keeps the story chugging powerfully along. Par usual, Roth's greatest zinger of all is saved for the last few pages. I would award Shylock five stars, if it were not for the fact that I simply can't (and never have been able to) get used to his hyperbolic style--all the ranting and raving and melodrama can occasionally be tiresome. But one doesn't normally read Roth for his elegant prose; one reads him for his ingenuity, his outrageousness, and his courage. And in this regard, Shylock certainly will not disappoint.	2002-03-07
US	50349210	R2E25UJ21X7ANN	0679728740	514887887	Child of God	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Dark, disturbing, haunting	There is no denying the strain of Faulkner that runs through McCarthy's early works; like his predecessor, McCarthy is concerned less with plot than with character and the many and sundry ways in which character and place (here, the hills of Eastern Tennessee) interact.  But McCarthy is more fun to read; his prose is lean and lyric and leaves lasting images in the mind's eye.  He does not shrink from displaying humanity in all its ugly (often ungodly) forms.  &quot;Child of God&quot; is best-known for its haunting portrayal of necrophilia--few writers could address so ghastly an act in such beautiful, elegant prose.  But that is one of the great joys of Cormac McCarthy's early novels--they are not so much tours de force as they are exhibitions of  beautifully painted landscape and haunting, nightmarish imagery.	2002-02-28
US	50349210	R354HWJ6D5DOA0	0375726349	301023145	The Human Stain: American Trilogy (3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Engaging conclusion to an ambitious trilogy	Four-and-a-half stars. Not only is &quot;The Human Stain&quot; one of the cleverest titles for a novel in years, it is also a marvelous bookend to Roth's well-received cycle of &quot;Novels Americana&quot;. Roth's story operates on many levels: it is at once a scathing critique of American political and intellectual (and emotional) life at the turn of the millenium, a fascinating exploration of the human impact of race and religion (and what effects a repudiation of race and religion can have on a person), a deep meditation on the human condition and our inability to escape our shared and individual pasts (the enduring &quot;stain&quot; on us all), and a parable about love, freedom and forgiveness. I have by no means been a big fan of Roth in the past. I found some of his bawdier novels (&quot;Portnoy's&quot; and &quot;Sabbath's&quot; come to mind)  mildly amusing and frequently nauseating, and &quot;American Pastoral,&quot; while a solid novel, did not impress me nearly as much as it did the critics. (I found it way too one-dimensionally melodramatic.)  But &quot;The Human Stain&quot; (and to some degree its predecessor, &quot;I Married a Communist&quot;) have revived my interest; they are proof positive that Roth does not need to rely on mere shock value to pen a moving, profound novel. That's not to say that some of the events are not &quot;shocking&quot;; they are, but they transcend mere plot devices and thoroughly illuminate Roth's idiosyncratic (but intriguing and often appealing) view of the world, and America in particular. I withhold five stars only for the somewhat clumsy, clubfooted beginning. Once the novel's momentum kicks in, it's a great ride. An extremely moving, thought-provoking work. I will definitely be going back to read Roth's earlier work.	2002-02-12
US	50349210	R3LCIXBQ6KFHZ1	0375707212	870258224	I Married a Communist: American Trilogy (2)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	An excellent study of political hypocrisy	When I first sat down to read \\"I Married a Communist\\", I was not aware that the novel was also something of roman a clef, so I am assessing it based on its own literary merit, not on its autobiographical import.  Some here have described the novel as a<BR>satire of 1950s politics.  While Roth is undoubtedly a master of satire, \\"Communist\\" seems to me less satire than a relatively<BR>straightforward (though piercing) examination of the glaring hypocrisies of political extremism in post-WW II America.  With<BR>remarkable balance, Roth lampoons the blind, unimaginative propaganda of the Communist party as well as the destructive,<BR>lamentable (almost certainly unconstitutional) fanaticism of McCarthy's minions and the HUAC.  In its social criticism,<BR>\\"Communist\\" is reminiscent of Roth's \\"American Pastoral\\" (which won the Pulitzer); but unlike \\"Pastoral,\\" \\"Communist\\" is far<BR>more nuanced.  The dialogue and monologues ring far truer, the prose is leaner, the characters are not so one-dimensional, and<BR>Roth's magnificent plot leaps lithely from past to present, building suspense along the way.  The novel also features a<BR>spectacular musing about the relationship between politics and literature; the irony is that Roth (or, at least, his<BR>character/mouthpiece) believes that the author's task is to be politically neutral--yet Roth's characters are always predictably,<BR>virulently, often violently anti-Republican.  Regardless, \\"Communist\\" is an underappreciated novel of personal and political<BR>betrayal and the lyric final pages are so subtle and warmly touching (in other words, so un-Rothian) that they will linger long in<BR>your memory.	2002-02-05
US	50349210	R2XA96UM2O8YV2	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A milestone of American literature	I don't consider myself a &quot;pretentious&quot; reader at all--and I usually don't care for novels that are self-consciously &quot;pretentious.&quot; The Sound and the Fury is a difficult novel, it is a deep novel, and it is a groundbreaking novel--none of these qualities makes it inherently &quot;pretentious.&quot; Faulkner himself never anticipated &quot;S&amp;F&quot; receiving much critical response--the storyline is a continuation of the Yoknapatawpha chronicle he began in &quot;Flags in the Dust&quot;; the style he employed was mainly a form of personal literary experimentation. As a result, &quot;S&amp;F&quot; is by far the most solipsistic of Faulkner's novels; to this day, literary critics are unable to divine the import of some scenes and snatches of dialogue. So why should you read it? Because it marks the debut of Faulkner as a &quot;great&quot; writer with his own unique style and mode of expression. It takes Joyce's stream-of-consciousness style (which was so frustrating and abstract in &quot;Ulysses&quot;) and gives it substance and purpose. The rotating point-of-view (which today is common to find in literary *and* popular fiction) has its unmistakable roots here, where Faulkner delves deeply into the troubled minds of three very different people: a mentally-incapacitated &quot;manchild,&quot; a neurotic-depressive, and an unabashed (at times scathing) cynic. And all of the events take place against the backdrop of a haunted South. In my opinion &quot;S&amp;F&quot; is second only to Absalom, Absalom! as Faulkner's greatest work. It is truly a novel you must read twice: the first time to acquaint yourself with the characters and daunting style; the second time, to fully appreciate what Faulkner is trying to say about his characters and their environment. Above all, don't be put off by the style. &quot;The Sound and the Fury&quot; is not an easy book, but it is definitely a great one.	2002-01-14
US	50349210	R1TZZAJ7GU8PQD	0394712390	341794217	Flags in the Dust: The complete text of Faulkner's third novel, which appeared in a cut version as Sartoris	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Essential Faulkner	Three-and-a-half-stars. &quot;Flags in the Dust&quot; is the first of Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha novels; it is a must-read for all potential Faulkner fans. It's not his best, by any means--the storyline is at times skittish (perhaps owing to the fact that &quot;Flags&quot; is the uncut, unedited version of what was originally published under the title &quot;Sartoris&quot;), and the characterizations are neither as deep nor as unique as those found in his later works. But &quot;Flags&quot; has charm and importance nonetheless. First, it is a crash course in the Sartoris family, whose many &quot;John&quot;s and &quot;Bayard&quot;s (not to menion the indomitable Granny Millard and Aunt Jenny) comprise a hefty chunk of Faulkner's later novels and short stories. Second, it is absolutely *amazing* (and I can't underscore that enough) to see Faulkner's great novels just beginning to poke through the surface of Jefferson, MS soil: the Snopes family, V.K. Ratliff (here named V.K. Suratt), the McCaslins, the Compsons (I think reference is made even to Thomas Sutpen) all make appearances in the novel. Therefore, I recommend reading &quot;Flags&quot; *after* you've read most of the other Yoknapatawpha novels--the breadth and depth of Faulkner's vision (anticipating or laying the foundation for novels he would write 20 or 30 years later) is truly remarkable, and is half the joy of reading it.  (But whenever you read &quot;Flags,&quot; at least make sure you've read &quot;The Unvanquished&quot; first--the characters will make far more sense if you do.)  As for the story itself: it's convoluted and not always engrossing--though the angst of young Bayard (silently mourning the wartime death of his brother John) is portrayed achingly well, and Aunt Jenny remains one of Faulkner's most powerful leading ladies.	2002-01-14
US	50349210	R36CU6TY3V75KV	0679741925	174144380	The Reivers	Books	4	38	39	N	N	An entertaining conclusion to an incredible career	Some fans of Faulkner have bemoaned the fact that his final novel is not a profound summation of his heftier, more philosophical works (as though Faulkner could have foreseen his own death and owed his readers that much).  While it is true that The Reivers is a much lighter (and more comical) work than those commonly regarded as Faulkner's \\"masterpieces,\\" it is still worthy of attention.  For one thing, The Reivers is Faulkner at his most entertaining; unburdened by the need to address the darker symptoms of the human condition, he is free to let his imagination run wild:  the trials and triumphs of young Lucius Priest and his travelling companions make for some hilarious scenes and leave the reader feeling far more bouyant at the novel's close that, say, at the end of The Sound and the Fury or Absalom, Absalom!.   The Reivers also features two additional benefits:  the divine Miss Reba (second only to Granny Millard as Faulkner's most entertaining and resourceful female character); and the much-appreciated absence of that nosy and annoying popinjay Gavin Stevens.  While one might read The Reivers as a Bildungsroman (Lucius's growth and awakening to the realities of the world around him are clearly underscored throughout the novel), I prefer to see it as a simple, amusing and satisfying story from a man who, by the end of his life, had done more to explore the human condition than most writers ever attempt - and was content to leave it at that.	2002-01-03
US	50349210	RY6BB3W4C48IZ	0394714121	904322383	Requiem for a Nun	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Disappointing but readable	Two-and-a-half stars.  In Requiem, Faulkner pens a sequel to his sensational novel Sanctuary, attempting to navigate the troubled marriage of Gowan and Temple Stevens. He delves deep into Temple's psyche, revealing a woman unable (or unwilling) to escape her troubled, violent past in Memphis. Just as her marriage is spiralling to destruction, Gowan and Temple's daughter dies at the hands of their nurse, Nancy. Faulkner seems to be trying to lend some serious philosophical weight to the otherwise lightweight Sanctuary. Two problems. First, Sanctuary was fine as it was; a sequel was unnecessary. Second, the narrative structure of Requiem--half prose, half play--while initially intriguing, ultimately hinders Faulkner is his attempt to probe psychological depths. (There's only so much of that you can do when you're limited to dialogue.) Oh, and of course that annoying ubiquitous allknowing lawyer Gavin Stevens has to put his $.02 in. I recommend this book only for true Faulkner lovers.	2001-12-16
US	50349210	RCJ89D8HVDLFU	0451522516	587225106	Elmer Gantry (Signet Classics)	Books	3	12	27	N	N	A shallow treatment of religion	Closer to two-and-a-half stars.  Sinclair Lewis is a solid American writer, but I would not consider him one of the \\"greats.\\"  While his novels were considered shocking at the time they were published (his best work appeared in the 1920s), they are nonetheless fairly conventional in style and theme.  His subject matter tends to be very specialized; rather than address a wide range of human emotion, he usually focuses on one theme in particular (here, the hypocrisy of religion), which he constantly and unflaggingly rams home.  Sometimes, this strategy works.  (\\"Babbitt\\" was an excellent study of intellectual vacuity.)  It does not work for \\"Elmer Gantry\\".  Lewis does succeed in painting a vivid portrait of a loathsome brute-Gantry is among the most unredeemingly hypocritical and disgusting leading characters in American literature.  But that's about all the novel accomplishes.  Lewis approaches his subject matter with a clear agenda in mind: he is not so much interested in honestly exploring the inherent contradictions of Christianity as he is in deriding it entirely, indiscriminately ridiculing its leaders and followers alike.  There is not a hint of objectivity; there is not one religious figure (minister or layperson) that Lewis does not lambast as a hypocrite or ignoramus.  The highly-artificial plot is structured to maximize the author's opportunity to poke fun at or condemn organized religion (fundamentalists, Catholics and Jews are painted in equally ugly strokes).  The only vaguely sympathetic character in the novel, Frank Shallard, is a born-again atheist.  Lewis would have done well to make him the lead character, as he is the only three-dimensional character in a cast of grotesque stick figures.  The novel improves vastly in the final 50 pages; but it's too little, too late.  In the final analysis, \\"Elmer Gantry\\" is a mildly entertaining screed about the pretentions of Christian evangelism; it is certainly not a profound novel as the cover suggests.	2001-11-29
US	50349210	R29EZU2CJ85FA1	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Solid achievement, but a bit too long	Angle of Repose is truly an enormously accomplished novel. In the character of Susan Ward, Wallace Stegner has created a complex leading lady--a woman of humble means who marries a man of humble means, yet who nonetheless aspires to status and prestige and the ranks of the glamorous literati. In the character of Lyman Ward, Stegner has created an equally complex narrator--a crippled sixty-something divorcee who has trouble understanding the sea-change in America wrought by the social movements of the 1960s, as well as trouble coming to terms with the emotional and physical effects of his own physical handicaps. The stories of these two individuals--separated by almost one hundred years of time--are woven together remarkably well; the Western backdrop is rendered beautifully and there is no doubting that Angle of Repose is as much the story of the Western frontier as it is that of Susan and Lyman Ward. Nonetheless, the novel falls just short of being a towering work of literature for two seemingly paradoxical reasons: first, the novel is too long--there is far too much down time, with Susan penning endless letters to her best friend (and platonic lover) Augusta Hudson. The plot (or at least the dialogue) appears at times to repeat itself. Stegner would have done well to keep this story moving forward; the narrative point of his novel (that the inability to forgive, to &quot;accept the things we cannot change&quot; inevitably leads to terminal disillusionment) would have been rendered much clearer. Second, the novel seems too hurried toward the end: Stegner has spent so much time drawing out the first 15 years of Susan and Oliver Ward's marriage that the remaining 40+ years are dealt with summarily. Without revealing too much about the plot, it is safe to say that more time should have been spent dealing with the ramifications of the narrative climax. The overall effect is one of a novel teetering on the brink of greatness, yet not quite clearing the hurdle. Still, it's definitely worth a read; judge it for yourself.	2001-11-20
US	50349210	R23G8OJDBA1LUW	1570717435	169069034	First Lady	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Gratifying Welcome-Home	Three-and-a-half stars. Contemporary American fiction has hurt for the lack of Michael Malone's talent these past ten years. First Lady marks the triumphant and long overdue return of one of America's greatest (if highly underrated) writers. Malone has an eye for character that is unparalleled among his literary contemporaries (his level of ingenuity is certainly unheard of among today's rank-and-file &quot;mystery writers&quot;); and indeed, it is the strength of his characterizations that makes First Lady worth reading. Keeping that in mind, it is not Malone's best work. Justin Savile is simply not as entertaining a first-person narrator as Cuddy Mangum (the narrator of &quot;Time's Witness&quot;); and Malone seems so intent on the murder-mystery aspect of his novel that he misses some key opportunities to add depth to the plot (he could have provided some really fresh and hilarious insights into the &quot;New South,&quot; but barely glances on the topic). Also, the denouement of the story is somewhat dissatisfying and a bit too &quot;pat.&quot; Still, Malone clearly retains his gift for humor and his idiosyncratic and memorable prose. I hope his next book is not a mystery novel (&quot;Dingley Falls&quot; and &quot;Handling Sin&quot; are, to my mind, his best novels); but if it is, I hope it is Cuddy Mangum, and not Justin, who does the narrating.	2001-11-04
US	50349210	R288QLEXJ3T6K6	0394702824	659457670	The Mansion	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A compelling conclusion to the Snopes trilogy	Surprisingly enough, I found The Mansion to be the best novel in Faulkner's impressive Snopes trilogy.  Flem Snopes, the devious and underhanded antihero of The Hamlet and The Town is on a crash course with Mink Snopes, the unbalanced family member whom Flem allowed to be imprisoned for murder nearly four decades earlier.  The paths of these two characters converge with fascinating inevitability, as Gavin Stevens and Linda Snopes finally arrive at a crossroads in their own relationship.  The Mansion is a satisfying conclusion to a story that spans over forty years in the history of Jefferson, Mississippi; the Snopes trilogy is a must-read for Faulkner fans.	2001-08-23
US	50349210	R3A1CBN01TZ4NJ	0679736530	961716822	The Hamlet	Books	3	5	10	N	N	It's a slow go, but well worth it	Three-and-a-half stars.  There is nothing about The Hamlet that will surprise fans of Faulkner's work: it is a dense novel written in the author's trademark style--mind-bending prose that often leaves one wondering what in the world just happened.  But it's worth it, because The Hamlet is the springboard for Faulkner's impressive Snopes trilogy.  What happens in this book sets the stage for the more entertaining (and more accessible) The Town and The Mansion.  Flem Snopes emerges as a force to be reckoned with, and the manic antics of his redneck relatives propels the narrative forward with enough momentum that the reader, at novel's close, is curious to learn what happens when the diabolical genius of Flem Snopes is loosed on Jefferson.  Read it: but keep in mind that it all gets more interesting in the books that follow.	2001-08-22
US	50349210	R84K7WI2PT7DF	0394701844	187968492	The Town: A Novel of the Snopes Family	Books	4	11	12	N	N	An entertaining chronicle of a self-made man	The Town is the second volume of Faulkner's Snopes trilogy, picking up the story from the moment of Flem Snopes's arrival in Jefferson, Mississippi.  With the foundation firmly laid in The Hamlet, Faulkner is free to delve deep into the character of Flem, the volatile Snopes-Varner dynamic, and the fascinating interaction between Eula, Gavin Stevens, and Linda Snopes, the pawn in her father's plan to take over Jefferson.  Not surprisingly, another host of Snopes parade onto the scene; but it is Flem and his underhanded, diabolical shenanigans that make this novel a joy to read.  The ending is both humorous and seriously disturbing, paving the way for the Fall of the House of Snopes in The Mansion.  One note: while the book jacket claims The Town may be read on its own, I would highly discourage it; trek through The Hamlet first before launching into it--it is well worth your time.	2001-08-22
US	50349210	R14J5PHMKAFQ4Z	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not as bad as the reviews would suggest	As a big fan of John Irving's work, I was thrilled to learn that his latest novel was on the shelves.  I was also disappointed to read such negative reviews (not just here on Amazon, but in the New York Times as well).  When all is said and done, The Fourth Hand does not possess the depth, complexity and emotional impact of Irving's prior work; yet, it's certainly worth a read and is far better than most contemporary fiction.  While the supporting cast is very weak, the main plot involving Patrick Wallingford and Doris Clausen is sweet and memorable, involving some tender scenes in northern Wisconsin, and a few amusing detours along the way.  Furthermore, The Fourth Hand possesses something rare in Irving's prior novels -- genuine, if understated, romance.  While Patrick and Doris encounter the usual Irving-esque litany of absurdly comic twists and turns, the bond between the two seems more salient, more authentic, than in Irving's most-recent work.  The Fourth Hand will not go down as Irving's finest work, but neither does it deserve the scorn it has so far received.  It is what it is; a simple, short story about love and remembrance.	2001-07-27
US	50349210	R4AZDCM4DHI05	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Spectacular: engaging and complex	Although I've read several of Faulkner's books, this was the first to leap out at me as indicative of his genius.  The work that must have gone into it is staggering.  Absalom, Absalom! is Southern tragedy at its very best, replete with dark meditations on the South's Civil War legacy and a story so fascinating, so magnificently plotted that it leaps out at the reader despite Faulkner's often mind-bending prose and endless parade of parentheses.  Thomas Sutpen is the type of tragic character Shakespeare would have written had he been alive and living in Mississippi at the time--a self-made man whose ruthless, myopic vision of forming a family dynasty is destroyed through chance and his own grave mistakes.  Faulkner unravels this dark tale with perfect timing, leaving the most tantalizing, informative details to the very end.  The whole novel possesses a kind of brooding atmosphere which lasts to the closing words.  I would not suggest this as the first Faulkner book to read--better to spend some time on the less important works in order to get a feel for his style, otherwise you will miss too much.  And even then, it helps to keep a finger on the family tree at the back of the book to get the characters straight.  But it's well worth it--this is one of the finest, most introspective and fascinating American novels I have read in a long time.	2001-03-04
US	50349210	R2PL0A30KAK9X9	0679772588	650961142	Time Will Darken It	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Beautiful, graceful and profound	What a remarkably sad little book this is.  Maxwell's characters, so pure of heart and full of good intentions, nonetheless find themselves alone, or pining after loves that can never be, or bound up in marriages of profound, unspoken, disappointment.  There are, certainly, moments of hope:  the tender bond between Martha and her young daughter Abbey; the sweet story of Dr. Danforth's love affair in his autumn years; the unrequited puppy love between Randolph and Mary Caroline.  But Maxwell's concern here seems largely to be with illusion and unfulfilled dreams.  These are not novel literary themes, and yet he manages to put a fresh twist on them.  The novel sweeps gracefully through time; the prose is as lucid and evocative as any writer's I've read, and Maxwell occasionally offers up such piercing insights into human nature that the reader is forced to go back and read passages a second, and even a third time.  Time Will Darken It is a sweet, thoughtful and beautiful novel and I would highly recommend it to anyone.  It is a shame that William Maxwell's name is not more prominent on the frequently-cited list of great American writers.	2001-02-26
US	50349210	RIFQO51ZKVPRL	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful, poignant, insightful	An exceptional book that is both chilling and touching. Capote is unmatched in the simple grace of his prose, which flows smoothly and seamlessly, even as he darts from one point of view to the next. The story he tells is every bit as important today as it was when first published. Capote grants the reader access to the minds of two troubled young men, to the friends touched by the Clutter family tragedy, and to the detectives seeking relentlessly to bring the killers to justice. Unlike many, I found the book to be admirably unbiased and nonjudgmental. While it is clear that Capote was no fan of the death penalty and while he occasionally and ever so briefly assumes the role of pop-psychologist/apologist for the killers, he never loses sight of the tragedy at hand. (The anti-capital punishment activists today should be so nuanced!)  The book is rife with moving scenes and a kind of quiet dignity. And unlike so many other writers, Capote has an uncanny sense of timing: this book is pithy and to-the-point, not one word too long nor too short.  The genre &quot;true crime&quot; often calls to mind cheap sensationalism and second-rate writing.  With &quot;In Cold Blood,&quot; Capote set a lasting benchmark that other writers should aspire to.	2001-02-24
US	50349210	R2PYPD7LEGHWW4	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ambitious, but muddled	I wanted to enjoy this book far more than I actually did: Wolfe clearly undertook a massive feat with &quot;A Man in Full,&quot; attempting to weave together characters from a variety of racial and social backgrounds.  And yet, beyond that, I was not certain what else Wolfe intended his novel to be: a profound commentary on social and cultural mores?  A social satire?  A lasting work of literature?  Or just a hefty piece of popular fiction?  This identity crisis plagues Wolfe throughout the book.  There are moments of true brilliance--Charlie Croker himself is a masterpiece; were the book as a whole as inspired, as beautifully layered, Wolfe would have added a major character to the American literary scene.  But the supporting cast--indeed, the whole of &quot;A Man in Full&quot;--just doesn't merit much attention.  It's not profound or complex enough to be social commentary; and despite occasionally glints of brilliance, it's not funny or scathing enough to be social satire (which is disappointing; Wolfe clearly has a great sense of humor and a keen intellect--this book could have been as hilarious, as scalding, as unconventional as anything by Joseph Heller or Kurt Vonnegut, but Wolfe seems almost hesitant to try.)  There are also problems when one tries to characterize &quot;A Man in Full&quot; as a deeply profound comment on society:  Wolfe so often resorts to shallow, foolish plot tricks to move his characters forward, much of the plot seems cheap and contrived.  A convenient earthquake halfway through the novel is the first straw; the abrupt, Zeus-inspired resolution of the novel is the last.  Wolfe has been unfairly criticized by the American literati for his view of the novel as a large, complex, socially-motivated work of art.  But whatever criticism he may have received for &quot;A Man in Full&quot; in particular is probably well-deserved.  Wolfe is clearly a talented writer: I think he's capable of much better.	2001-02-24
US	50349210	R20LMXPA8D5LQI	0375702733	414359390	Reservation Road (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	An understated marvel	There's an inherent problem in writing (and reading) novels which devote themselves entirely to unexpected death and its aftermath, entirely aside from the fact that it's a subject matter which has been done, and re-done, and overdone since the dawn of fiction, and is therefore very difficult to make fresh, interesting or insightful.  The major problem is that the author runs the very real risk of dousing the reader with such unrelenting dreariness that finishing the book is almost a chore.  As far as novels about death go, Reservation Road is far better than most.  It's thought-provoking, sincere, and, for the most part, avoids melodrama.  But there's not much new for Schwartz to explore-if grief is a universal language, the theme of personal loss is a literary staple.  The ending of the book (I won't spoil it) is somewhat surprising, and emotionally fulfilling at first-until one gives it serious thought and wonders if the author sacrificed reality for the sake of making \\"a point\\" about human nature.<br />Two things save Reservation Road, however, and make it worth reading.  The first is the character of Dwight, whose anguish and self-loathing in the wake of the accident he caused is arresting, complex, and unique.  The second is Schwartz's prose, which is lucid and engaging-on occasion, it's even downright eloquent.  In the end, the novel is an almost perfect hybrid of Jacqueline Mitchard's far inferior \\"The Deep End of the Ocean\\" and James Agee's superior \\"A Death in the Family.\\"  It may not be a lasting work of literature, but it's a good piece of contemporary fiction.  I would consider sampling Schwartz's work again.	2001-01-25
US	50349210	R1U0CG20UU9Y1A	067972186X	978990793	The Drowned and the Saved	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Haunting and troubling	Levi's final account of his year at Auschwitz is concise, to-the-point, and absolutely fascinating.  Words simply cannot do it justice; even four decades after the camps were &quot;liberated,&quot; Levi's experience during the war remains for him (and to us) an  exposed nerve.  While Levi is unremitting in his condemnation of the Nazis and those Germans who stood silently by as unthinkable atrocitites were committed in their backyards, this book is evidence of a mind that, up until the very end, was still probing, still trying to understand, still offering up meaningful and timely questions which every human being--regardless of age or nationality or religion--should seriously ponder.  The most striking aspect of this short narrative is its utter sincerity--Levi does not reach for hyperbole (though it's hard to exaggerate the inhumanity of the concentration camps), nor does he meditate at length on abstruse philosophy; to the contrary, he is always painfully, even brutally, honest and straightforward.  His death was a great tragedy, but his written legacy is an even greater triumph; The Drowned and the Saved should be required reading for all.	2001-01-14
US	50349210	RMMXMTOUNZWK4	0440235502	750100394	October Sky (The Coalwood Series #1)	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Movie was much better	This is one of those rare instances in which the movie was better than the book on which it was based (which is doubly ironic, considering it's a &quot;true story&quot;).  Hickam has a great story to tell, one that most people can identify with; but in my opinion, he does a great disservice to it by trying too hard to be &quot;cute.&quot;  The book was written over thirty years after the events in it took place--it is difficult if not impossible to believe that his renditions of conversations and dialogue and detailed scene-settings from his childhood are substantially accurate; as a result, many of the scenes come off hokey, self-consciously &quot;nostalgic,&quot; almost as if Hickam was writing a movie script as opposed to his memoirs.  I understand that he wrote his book to appeal to a wide audience, but I believe it could have been just as effective and much less annoying had he stuck to a straight recitation of the facts and lessons he learned and avoided the need to &quot;charm&quot; us with what are almost certainly historical revisions and creative imaginings or to ram the &quot;coming of age&quot; aspect of his story down the readers' throats.  I give the book three stars because Hickam clearly has a good story to tell; I just wish he'd trusted himself to render it free of sappy rhetoric.	2001-01-09
US	50349210	R1F7XR6ZWRFCZJ	0823217868	607909038	Hugo Black: A Biography	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An excellent study of Justice Black's jurisprudence	Justice Black was (and is) a fascinating study in American constitutional theory -- an unabashed and lifelong Democrat, Black surprised many, especially toward the end of his life, when he often refused to join in the Warren court's adventures into judicial activism.  Newman's biography is comprehensive, touching on all the key points of Black's life both on and off the bench, including a lenghty examination of his now-famous First Amendment jurisprudence.  Black emerges in three dimensions, as a complicated and passionate advocate and jurist.  Three minor flaws: first, Newman, obviously in awe of Black, occasionally misses an opportunity to fairly criticize some of his opinions; secondly, the book does not always flow smoothly, but often advances in a rough, staccato fashion (a venial flaw, considering the complicated subject matter).  Finally, toward the end of the book, Newman becomes somewhat overly-sentimental - hardly a page goes by without Newman describing the &quot;tears pouring down Black's face&quot; as he recalls his youth and public service.  Again, given the author's clear  love of his subject, this is forgiveable.<br />Overall, a fantastic book - a must read for any Supreme Court scholar.	2001-01-05
US	50349210	R2VVT27FRQ6C69	0195103467	276279820	The Rehnquist Court and the Constitution	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Unfortunate addition to Yarbrough's resume	Mr. Yarbrough has a fine reputation as a leading judicial biographer: his previous works on Hugo Black, and the two Justices Harlan were impressive, detailed and interesting.  With &quot;The Rehnquist Court&quot; he pumps out a minor achievement and a heavily slanted analysis of recent Constitutional decisions.  There's no denying the hostility toward conservative/strict-constructionist judges and viewpoints and this, as a previous poster noted, deeply taints the work overall.  In addition, Yarbrough's style (which has always tended to the dry and tedious) is here especially mind-numbing: the interesting constitutional issues under debate are hidden amongst irrelevant facts and long-winded prose.  As a whole, I found the book very disappointing and the steep price tag wholly unwarranted.	2000-10-05
US	50349210	R18KN7A8Y5WC9H	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Occasionally enjoyable, but highly overrated	Philip Roth's writing has never impressed me the way some of his  contemporaries' has.  &quot;Pastoral&quot; is a perfect illustration of why  this is the case.  The premise (the story of a tranquil, suburban family  suddenly confronted with the absurdity and violence of the 1960s) is  promising enough; the character of &quot;the Swede&quot; is impressively  written; the first quarter of the novel flows smoothly, almost lyrically.   Unfortunately, that is where the novel seems to become derailed:   paragraphs of beautiful prose are often interrupted by pages of hopped-up,  melodramatic sentiment.  (It's the same plague that befell Roth's  &quot;other masterpiece,&quot; Portnoy's Complaint - an extraordinarily  promising beginning that eventually turns sour.)  At its best, Pastoral is  a very penetrating look at American suburbia and the tumultuous sixties.   At its worst, it reads as an Oprah Winfrey selection, full of stock  characters who serve no purpose other than to ram home Roth's narrative  &quot;point&quot; and over-the-top dialogue/scene setting and unbelievable  dialogue (The Swede's final encounter with his daughter was a particularly  egregious example of the latter two).  In another writer's hands, Pastoral  might indeed have been worthy of the Pulitzer.  As it is, we catch only  glimpses of Roth's genius, and are left to slosh through the unremarkable  rest.  I'd give it three-and-a-half stars if I could	2000-09-08
US	50349210	R24JPZVBHAMK0D	0679735968	602755397	This Quiet Dust: And Other Writings	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Styron should stick to fiction...	It is both a curse and a blessing that William Styron is not a more prolific novelist: while his fans must endure years - decades, even - without a new work in which to immerse ourselves,  when his novels do  emerge, they are painstakingly crafted and tremendously affecting.  While  waiting for his next book, I decided to polish off &quot;Quiet Dust.&quot;   Although some of the articles and essays therein are indeed fascinating,  the whole of it leaves me grateful that Styron usually sticks to fiction.   Styron is at his best when delivering tributes to literary icons such as  Faulkner, Fitzgerald, and James Jones, or when recounting memories and  stories of the American South.  It is when he forays into political issues  (describing his crusade to save a CT killer from death row, his experience  during the 1968 Chicago riots, his unqualified reverence of Kennedy and  unqualified abhorrence of everything Republican) that one is struck by the  incongruity of his narrative style (which is suited beautifully for  fiction, but seems overwrought and clunky when employed for nonfiction  purposes) and his oftentimes embarassingly facile understanding of and  &quot;insights&quot; into politics.  None of this at all diminishes his  standing as one of America's greatest living novelists; but it does make us  appreciate the fact that he has spent most of his life engaged in literary  pursuits instead of political crusades.	2000-07-31
US	50349210	R1YMHJMFE4WRMQ	0316544809	779151193	Time's Witness	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Tough but rewarding	Unlike 98% of people who've read Michael Malone's work, I was quite underimpressed by his &quot;Uncivil Seasons&quot; - it was fine as far as detective stories go, but it was a bit too quirky, a bit too unconventional  for my taste.  So I was not looking forward to &quot;Time's Witness,&quot;  which revived many of the same characters - I read it only because I love  Malone's other work, and TW was the last I had to read.  If you can muscle  your way through the first 150 pages, grow used to Cuddy (the narrator's)  unusual voice, I think you will be pleasantly surprised.  Malone is a  beautiful character writer and TW is as good as they come: the story is  interesting, complex and raises some important questions.  (While  frequently preachy, Malone's first-person technique allows the reader to  ascribe the preachiness to the narrator and not so much to the author.)   The trial scenes toward the end surpass anything John Grisham has pumped  out.  A great read; find it if you can (I found my copy on Ebay)	2000-06-13
US	50349210	R1U3T7ZBEO5NTU	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Big disappointment	Like most others, I read this book, less for the dreary description on the dust jacket, than for the fact that I enjoyed &quot;Snow Falling...&quot; very much.  Unfortunately &quot;East&quot; was a monumental disappointment.   It's not just that &quot;East&quot; is poor when compared to &quot;Snow  Falling...&quot; (though it is), but on the whole, it's a very unmemorable  work.  I like to see authors challenge themselves, but Guterson, as one  reviewer put it, mainly coasts through this novel on &quot;auto  pilot.&quot;  He recycles war scenes from his first novel, but they are far  less affecting in &quot;East,&quot; and loads on scenic descriptions with a  heavy hand, smothering whatever momentum the plot has (which is very  little).  It's a short book, but the flimsy plot barely sputters across the  finish line.  One gets the impression that Guterson didn't have a real  story for his second novel, so he wrote eight or ten short vignettes and  tried to tie them loosely together with his &quot;quest for life&quot;  claptrap.  There's no denying he is a master of scenery.  I've never been  to the mountains of Washington State, but I certainly felt I had after  finishing &quot;East.&quot;  Still, that's not nearly enough to make this  book worth reading - cleave out all the scenic descriptions, and you'd have  a novella of about 100 pages.  Several times I found myself muttering  &quot;Just get *on* with it, already&quot; under my breath.	2000-04-18
US	50349210	RO08CWI45QCZL	0679736743	145527537	Set This House on Fire	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Complex, intriguing but too long	(More like three-and-a-half stars)  Set This House on Fire is probably Styron's least accessible book, laden as it is with abstruse psychological analyses of the characters, and frequent, lengthy digressions into events  unrelated to the main story.  The first half of the novel is very  tautly-written, but this unravels later on when the point of view suddenly  shifts.  As with all of Styron's books, we are treated to ample doses of  sex, death, and alcoholic dazes.  But they don't seem to mesh quite so well  in this book as they do in his others.  And several parts of the book don't  ring true: Cass Kinsolving's lengthy philosophical excursions seem forced  and are often not very interesting.  The causes for his alcoholism are  never fully explored.  He recalls his dreams and visions ad nauseum.  And  the moral lesson that the reader is to draw from this saga, so clearly and  beautifully rendered in Styron's other works, comes off here as a somewhat  jumbled, incoherent mess.  The book gives the impression of vast authorial  ambition, but that ambition is never fully realized.  Styron's magnificent  writing does, however, manage to hold the reader's attention through to the  end.	2000-03-14
US	50349210	RR4H24161N4Q4	0679754490	590897650	A Tidewater Morning	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Picturesque and memorable	Styron raises enough intriguing issues and questions that A Tidewater Morning could have been a full-bodied novel.  Instead, we are treated to three short stories that, while somewhat disjointed, do manage to flow with relative ease.  There's little new material addressed here: Styron returns  to his favorite themes of slavery, war, and death, but he does manage some  fresh twists that allow Tidewater to stand memorably on its own merits.	2000-03-14
US	50349210	RYRSH3COPLWIR	0140286276	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Highly overrated; often unrealistic	I found &quot;Deep End&quot; to be highly overrated - the story starts off strong enough; in fact, the early chapters are actually quite good.  The middle of the book then sags under the weight of a stagnant plot, before  coasting downward on auto-pilot for its unrealistic, anti-climactic ending.   The emotions of Beth and Vince, which seem genuine and moving at the  beginning, quickly become cliche and overdone by novel's end.  Some  unlikely plot twists and a TV-movie ending add little to the story.  The  premise is strong, Ms. Mitchard's writing skills are adequate, and of  course, the title of the book is memorable and imaginative.  That's why its  such a shame and a disappointment  that these promising parts don't sum to  a thrilling and memorable whole.	2000-02-28
US	50349210	RRJEY4H5G3F46	0679736638	158144239	The Confessions of Nat Turner	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Haunting and lyrical...	It's a shame that this book has been shrouded in accusations of racism and bigotry, because it detracts from the simple fact that &quot;Nat Turner&quot; is a beautifully written, impressively narrated and horribly  affecting novel.  Styron's Nat is a fully realized, memorable and  finely-drawn character, whose insights into slavery and human nature in  general, linger long after the closing words.  In the end he emerges, not  so much as a hero, but as a human pushed to the brink by circumstances  beyond his control.  An essential read for anyone who enjoys novels which  plumb the depths of the human condition.	2000-02-25
US	50349210	R9IH4TPLJUTTZ	0375701230	91189139	A Death in the Family	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Heartbreaking...	A thoroughly moving portrayal of death.  The characters are beautifully simple people and because their lives are so ordinary, it is easier for a reader to empathize with their loss.  I'm not sure that \\"Death\\" is what  you would call a \\"great novel\\" - very little happens - but at the very least it's some \\"great writing\\" and almost always manages to strike an authentic chord.	2000-02-25
US	50349210	RAC16BPXTJIF8	0345417976	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Moving, inspiring, excellent	Oh, there's not much that I can say beyond what hundreds of others have already said.  Owen Meany is beautifully written and the characters are as memorable as they come.  Having read all of Irving's books, and loved most  of them, I found this to be his best.  Irving is one of the best writers  currently at work today: he does not sacrifice literate writing for the  sake of a fun and emotional novel, nor does his story sink beneath the  weight of pretentious prose.  Most importantly, his stories are fresh and  the characters are unique: and that's why people keep coming back for more.   You never know what he'll think up next.	2000-02-17
US	50349210	R2XX5HLN4IZEKO	0679735976	355561857	Lie Down in Darkness	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Beautifully-written but not flawless	It should come as no surprise that Lie Down in Darkness is beautifully written, given who wrote it.  It's a slow read at the beginning, gradually picking up steam as the story progresses.  At its best, Styron manages to  capture the electrical emotions of his deeply-troubled family.  Yet for  some reason he does not provide us with a reason, or some explanation for  the parents' many flaws: why did Helen Loftis grow up hating men so much?;  why did Milton Loftis feel the need to drown his sorrows in alcohol?   Answers, or at least, a casual addressing of these questions would have  improved the readers understanding of these complex individuals.  The novel  builds to a lyrical and almost dream-like conclusion ... but I could have  done without the fifty-page interlude into Peyton's stream of conscious.	2000-02-14
US	50349210	R3B9WLMS6BKHAK	0679735186	167686037	Independence Day: Bascombe Trilogy (2)	Books	3	30	37	N	N	Tedious but well-written	I suppose I will never belong to the self-proclaimed literati, because while I can appreciate the fact that this book is very well written, still I believe that that is not enough in itself to make it a great book -  certainly not a Putlizer-Prize winner.  Having never read the prequel to  this book, it's possible I've missed something crucial that could have  contributed to my enjoyment of Independence Day.  But as it was, I found it  to be tedious, often boring, and almost transparently &quot;deep&quot; - as  if Ford was more concerned with waxing philosophical than with telling a  compelling story.  There are so many authors out there who can both write  well and tell a compelling story, that Ford is hardly the first author I  would turn to.	2000-02-08
US	50349210	R3F2YHTZ55LOEA	0452273331	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	58	88	N	N	Awe-inspiring but unrealistic	Amazing how most reviews either award five or one star.  Its been five years since I read The Fountainhead as a senior in high school.  Like many other impressionable youths, I was lured hook-line-and-sinker into her  simplistic world of Roarks and Keatings.  Of course, her philosophy, in its  uncompromising form, is unworkable (indeed undesirable) in the real world.   But that by no means suggests that we should discard it entirely. Rand has  a lot to say about the strength and nobility of the human spirit and the  independence of the human mind.  The world would be a better (and more  interesting) place were more people to follow some of her initiatives.  Of  course, her novel was meant as thinly-veiled philosophical propaganda.  For  that very reason, it is presented as black-and-white, like a checklist of  rules for a happy life.  To follow her philosophy blindly would be silly  and immature.  Philosophy exists only in the human mind.  When one tries to  apply it to real life, the smart person will always do so with a grain of  salt. <br />When it comes down to it, Rand wrote an important book, developed  original characters, and a told strong, compelling story.  Whether or not  one agrees with her philosophy, these are good enough reasons to award it  at least four stars.	2000-01-27
US	50349210	R20643WY8OKU0A	0345407385	256253688	Dark Justice (Ben Kincaid)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Shallow, preachy and unconvincing	The author takes what has the potential to be a complex and involving issue (environmental activism) and turns it into a shallow, cartoon-like saga.  The characters are bland and unconvincing.  The book is riddled with  plot devices that do nothing to advance the storyline.  The cast of  characters is populated by every stereotype in the book (crazed  environmental wackos, &quot;macho&quot; loggers who think with their hands  and not their heads, a D.A. so unbelievably rotten that she's more amusing  than terrifying), it's almost as if the author made a deliberate effort to  make his story as shallow as possible.  And to top it all off, he had the  nerve to provide a public service statement at the end about the horrors of  the logging industry - as if his unnuanced, sledge-hammer approach to  moralizing in the 400 previous pages was not enough to get his  oversimplified point across.  Forget the money I spent on this book - I'd  like a refund of the time I spent reading it!	2000-01-03
