US	50345944	RLWY60JJARUUC	0849916402	793108710	The List	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Page turning novel that stays with you	It's ironic that in reading Robert Whitlow's novels to date, the last one I'd get to read would be his first novel.  I have to say I've enjoyed all of his novels, each for both the same and different reasons.  And while reading his books, you'd think I'd be able to say--oh yes, this was written first and this one written more recently, I honestly couldn't tell which was first, middle or last written except by the date on the copyright page.  Whitlow is just that good--and the List is just a great novel.  <br />The novel is like a combination of the legal chase thriller that was the Firm or the Pelican Brief with the spiritual warfare made real as done by Frank Peretti.  And the good news is--Whitlow puts distills both into a form that is imminently readable and thoroughly enjoyable.  The List is a book that once I started reading, I found it virtually impossible to put down.  I cared about what happened to the characters of Renny and Jo, seeeing where the journey took them.  I enjoyed their budding romance--seeing it in the wonders and pitfalls of an emerging relationship.  I also liked hearing about the list and the lengths taken to keep it secret and how Renny learns to signing his name to something can have serious consequences.  Hearing the spirtitual struggle of Renny and the battle waged for his soul is compelling and outstanding reading.  The novel never lags and always keeps you intereted.  Whitlow has done a superlative job with all of his books and the only thing that disappoints me is now I've read all of his books that are currently published and must wait for the wonder of discovering his worlds in a new novel. <br />If you're looking for strong, intelligent contemporary Christian fiction, look no farther.  Even if you're just looking for a page-turning, moving and enjoyable novel, you can't go wrong here.  The List is another great entry from great author.  I can't recommend this book or any of Whitlow's other novels enough.	2004-01-20
US	50345944	RUSI1G192ULFE	0849943183	942699962	The Sacrifice	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Defies expectations	Legal thrillers are a dime a dozen these days.  For every Grisham, there are three to four other others turning out formula legal thrillers in an attempt to cash in on the popular trend in publishing.  Which is what makes the works of Robert Whitlow such a marvelous find--they are legal thrillers, but they're well told, entertaining, page turning stories, the likes of which I haven't read in the legal genre since the earliest works of John Grisham.<BR> <BR>Robert Whitlow is an amazingly talented author and that keeps showing through again and again in his work.  <BR> <BR>&quot;The Sacrfice&quot; is no exception to this rule.<BR> <BR>What could have been little more than an exploration of a possibly racial motivated incident in a Southern small town (ala &quot;A Time To Kill&quot;) instead turns out to be much more.  &quot;The Sacrifice&quot; is an intimate examination of the events and circumstances that shaped the character of the protoganist, Scott Ellis.  Ellis has returned to his native town to begin practicing law and gets his first big case--defending a young man who is accused of shooting into a baptism service at a local African-American church.  The case isn't helped by the fact that the young man is a bigot, whose outward appareance and internal attitude reflect this.   As he takes on the case, Scott also accepts a position to work with the local high school's mock trial team and is unexpectedly reunited with his high school sweetheart, Kay.  Kay is going through a divorce and the relationship didn't end on a good note between them--Scott just let the relationship wither away.<BR> <BR>As the novel progresses, you slowly begin to realize that this is a character study of Scott.  He's never really allowed himself to be close to anyone for fear of causing or recieving pain. He can't be open with others or himself and he really only has an abiding friendship with his constant dog companion, Nicki. Slowly over the course of the novel, Scott's pattern becomes more and more apparent--as do the reasons behind it, which I won't give away here as it may ruin some of the enjoyment of the novel.   We see Scott struggle--not only with his renewed feelings for Kay, who is going through a divorce, but also with his feelings about his friends, his client, his life in general and his relationship with God.  One particularily powerful scene comes when Scott attends the church where the shootings occurred to possibly get information on the case and is almost confronted by the minister about his personal walk.<BR> <BR>What surprised me most about this book was how quickly the pages turned.  Whitlow's work has proven to be rivetting and compelling in the past, but &quot;The Sacrifice&quot; went above and beyond that.  We come to care about Scott and what's going on in his life and I couldn't turn the pages fast enough at times.  This is truely one of those novels that goes by far too quickly and the only regret you have when you've finished is that there isn't more of this great story to keep reading.  <BR> <BR>In addition to our journey with Scott, we also get an examination of evil and how it is at work in our world, sometimes hiding in plain sight.  Whitlow builds the suspense of this storyline well in the story of Scott's journey and it leads to a truly compelling and page-turning conclusion.  It is also extremely powerful to read, especially in the light of what we learn about Scott over the course of this novel.<BR> <BR>&quot;The Sacrifice&quot; is a rich, compelling novel.  It is Whitlow's third book and the third book of his that I've read.  In fact, while I have one more of Whitlow's novels left to read, I think this one might be my favorite.  Whitlow has crafted a novel that is next to perfect and I heartily recommend it.	2004-01-05
US	50345944	R2IM67RIW46E27	0849916429	410927561	The Trial	Books	5	13	14	N	N	It's not a &quot;Trial&quot; to read this great book...	Attorney Kent &quot;Mac&quot; MacClain is on the brink--nine years earlier, he was at the wheel in a horrible accident that took the lives of his wife and children.  Mac is having a spiritual crisis--feeling unable to deal with the deep pain and hurt the accident placed upon his heart and soul and decides the time has come to end his own lfie, when the phone rings in his office.  He has been asked to take on the case of Pete Thomason, a man who is accused of killing Angela Hightower, the daughter of a family of high power and prestige in the small town in which Mac lives and works.  Against Pete is not only a mountain of compelling evidence but also the fact that he cannot recall any details of the events leading up to the death of Angla.  <BR> <BR>Both men face a spritual crisis.  Both men are fighting for thier lives.  <BR> <BR>So begins Robert Whitlow's second novel, &quot;The Trial.&quot;  After thoroughly enjoying his work on &quot;Lfie Support&quot; I was eager to find more of Mr. Whitlow's work.  I'm happy to say that the great storytelling, character development and page-turning suspense of &quot;Life Support&quot; are also very much at work here in &quot;The Trial.&quot;  Whitlow balances a lot of separate story threads--Mac's spiritual crisis, his budding relationship with Anna Wilkes, a pyschologist who evaluates Pete, the story of Pete and what is happening to him in the prison and the pain and suffering of the Hightowers as they try to make sense of what happened on that night to take their daughter.  &quot;The Trial&quot; is more than just a legal thriller, it's also a murder mystery that will keep you turning the pages to find out who did it and why.  <BR> <BR>But, as with &quot;Life Support&quot; the greatest parts of &quot;The Trial&quot; are not the moments in which we have the stunning revelations of who commited these acts and why, but insted Whitlow's character creations and the building of his setting for the novels.  As with &quot;Life Support&quot; it's the little details that make this books so compelling to read.  It's easy to see bits and pieces not only of yourself but people you might know in your daily walk in the characters who inhabit Whitlow's novels.  Mac is a man who goes to church on Sunday, but his attendance is dictated on how the Gerogia football team did the following day and he has a Sunday School class full of fellow fans (and despite my beign a die-hard Tennessee fan, I didn't mind this too much...esp. since the Tenenssee-Georga game that Whitlow tells about his book has the Vols winning...but I digress).  We see prayer circles that pray for Mac, we see Mac meet Anna and her young son, who awaken some long forgotten feelings deep inside him..  We see Mac serve as a mentor to a new young attorney and we see him fight for the life of his client.  All of this while struggling with his own internal demons.  Mac is a compellng character, as are all the characters in this novel. &quot;The Trial&quot; resists the urge to give us one-dimensional characters.  Instead, each character is uniquely human with his or her own strengths and weaknesses, all of which are on display here in the novel.<BR> <BR>&quot;The Trial&quot; of the title not only refers to the court case that Mac wants to win but the spiritual war that goes on in both his and Pete's soul.  The novel features a lot of twist and turns, but Whitlow always keeps them grounded and feeling authentic, something that can be difficult to do.<BR> <BR>The other great strength of this novel is that Whitlow superbly uses the elements of a typical Christian thriller and makes them fresh and new.  He never strays into the cliches.  As the novel progresses and certain events happen, they feel natural, coming out of not only the flow of the narrative but also on what we know about the characters from the previous chapters.  <BR> <BR>All in all, &quot;The Trial&quot; is a compelling and dynamic read.  It is a novel that I heartly recommend to anyone looking for a great legal thriller inhabited by compelling and interesting characters.  Whitlow has captured the imagination of this reader and I cannot wait to read the next of his novels.  If I wasn't a fan before, I most certainly am now...	2003-12-27
US	50345944	RBFWBJ6EBDDZW	0849943728	822018095	Three	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A page turning thriller	Ted Dekker's Three is a fast-paced thrill ride of novel that hides a deeper purpose--an examination of the duality of good and evil.  Kevin Parson is a 28-year old seminary student who has escaped from a stiffling past.  His biological parents were killed in a car wreck when he was one and he was raised by his Aunt Belinda, who was a strong, sheltering influence on him.  Kevin escaped and looks to build a new life until a mysterious man named Slater begins hounding him. Slater is fascinated by a sin from Kevin's past and the number three. Slater begins a game of cat and mouse with Kevin to get Kevin to confess the sin.  <br />Three is a fast-paced action thriller that will keep you turning the pages.  Dekker does a great job of setting up the characters and putting events in motion and sustaining that motion as the story builds toward the conclusion and denoucnement of who and what Slater really is.   I also have to give Dekker credit--he does throw in a few red herrings to keep you guessing, though the solution of who and what Slater is and why he wants what he wants is a bit telegraphed about three quarters of the way through the book.  But even if you figure out the central twist of the novel, Dekker's style and examination of the nature of good vs evil will keep you going until the end.  And while he does wrap up this story, you will find yourself wanting to know more about the lives of Kevin and his friends, Samantha and Jennifer, after the last page is turned.	2003-12-17
US	50345944	R22CB7MCZR2R9O	0849943744	865329931	Life Support (Santee, Book 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Entertaining, thought provoking reading.	Ever since John Grisham wrote \\"The Firm\\" and it became a run-away bestseller, legal thrillers have become a dime a dozen.  Lots of book publishers have sought to cash in on the trend toward the public's interest and the legal thriller has almost become its own genre-so much so that I fully expect it to get its own section in the bookstore someday.  So, it probably shouldn't come as too great a shock that there would, eventually, be a subset of the Christian publishing genre for a legal thriller.<BR> <BR>What was shocking was how good it turned out to be.<BR> <BR>Robert Whitlow's \\"Life Support\\" is a legal thriller-and it's one with a Christian emphasis.  But I'd easily put this legal thriller up against some of the best the secular publishing world has to offer.  \\"Life Support\\" is just that good.<BR> <BR>Rena Richardson did not have a happy childhood and she's not grown up to be a happy adult.  She married an heir to a family's good fortune and has grown to love the good life.  She wants to keep all that-the thing is she doesn't want to keep her husband, Baxter. So, one day while hiking she pushes him over a cliff and makes it look like an accident.  But in a cruel twist of fate for Rena, Baxter survives and is put on life support.  Rena wants to terminate it to cover her own secrets, but her fat her-in-law, Ezra has another legal document that gives him control over Baxter's life-and he very much wants his son to be living so he can exercise his power of attorney.  Ezra has his own agenda as well-he's not all on the up and up and his company harbors some shady secrets he'd rather see kept out of the light of day.  <BR> <BR>Enter into this attorney, Alexia Lindale, who is assigned by her law firm ,which represents Ezra, to go in and mediate things.  Rena draws Alexia into her web of lies, leading to Alexia's termination and striking out on her own to represent Rena in a battle against her former employers.  Along the way, Alexia meets the musical director at a localchurch and finds herself being drawn not only to him but also to a newer and deeper relationship with God.<BR> <BR>\\"Life Support\\" is a fascinating character study and one in which the pages fly by.  Unlike a lot of other contemporary Christian fiction, the characters are all not lily white, but are instead real human beings.  For as much of a one-note villain as Rena could be, Whitlow invests her with just enough likeability to make us feel some sympathy for her and to understand her plight. And as much as Alex and the music minister are the heroes of this novel, they are still human enough to have faults, doubts and foibles.  It makes the pages come alive because we feel like all these characters are real people-not just one-note characters the author has created to hammer home his own agenda or point.<BR> <BR>And although there are some things that are the standard stock of your basic legal thriller and your basic Christian-oriented novel, Whitlow blends them together seamlessly in his novel.  This was a great book and one that I found myself sorry to see end-even though it does end at a crossroads with a promise for more to come in 2004. <BR> <BR>I've not read any of Whitlow's other work, but after reading this one, I am definitely eager for more.  Whitlow delivers a page-turning thriller with a profound and heartwarming message at the center.  Just like life, there are no easy answers, but that's what makes this book such a pleasure to read.	2003-12-09
US	50345944	R3MC6RM5X0ZYI0	0743249372	938554214	Popped (Regan Reilly Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Entertaining, quick read	More than anything else, it's the setting of Carol Higgins Clark's new mystery novel, &quot;Popped&quot; that will draw readers into it.  The setting is on the set of a possible reality show about hot air ballooning--with the payoff coming at the Alburque Balloon festival.   What will keep you turning the pages is the novel fast pace and quirky characters.  And what will leave you feeling a bit let down by the story is an ending that just rings a bit hollow, with an odd twist that should have been better foreshadowed by the events that come before it.  All in all, this is a fun novel to read, but it's not necessarily a great story.  The central mystery is intriguing enough, though it lacks a really great twist and resolution to make it truly satisfying in the end.   The novel also suffers from a bit of predictablity--especially in the final few pages.  <br />Honestly, I wish this one had been a bit longer. The first two thirds of the book do a nice job of setting up the circustances and the quirky characters only for the second half of the book to rush to a resolution.  It's a shame really because the book is a fun, fast paced read, but it does leave you hungering for something more once the final page has been turned.	2003-10-06
US	50345944	R16W84A4L4O6YW	074346401X	786069125	The Sundered: The Lost Era 2298 (Star Trek: the Lost Era)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Character driven Trek novel	The best Trek fiction these days isn't coming from within the established series themselves, but instead in novels set outside of the events we see on TV.  One only has to witness the brilliance of Peter David's New Frontier series or the on-going continuation of the DS9 story to see this.<br />And this month, Pocket books attempts to expand the series of original Trek fiction even further--this time by answering the questions of what happened between the death of James T. Kirk in Generations and the first time we saw the Enterprise in Encounter at Farpoint.  It's an intriguing idea, if not necessarily an original one (TOS did it with the underrated Lost Years saga) and its really the type of thing the Trek fiction should be doing.  <br />The first entry is the Sundered, written by the phenomenal writing team of Michael A. Martin and Andy Mangels.  The story is one of Captain Sulu and his time aboard the Excelsoir, negotiated a peace treaty with the Tholians.   But along comes a new race of aliens who hold a secret that just may unravel the delicate peace process and drag not only the Excelsoir but the entire Federation into war.  Along the way there is a murder, some space battles and some guest appareances by Trek characters we've all heard of before.  <br />Martin and Mangalis take a page from the DS9 re-launch and allow the story to be character driven as well as dependent on the plot to move forward.  We get moments to enjoy gettting to know the crew of the Excelsoir--both old and new friends--and we also get some exploration of the societies of the Tholians and the new aliens.   It's the character moments that make the story a real page turner and help it rise to the level of quality that has been achieved by the DS9 relaunch.<br />That said, the story does fall prey to some rather heavy-handed foreshadowing.  There are flashbacks that take place within the story to certain events that will impact the plot later.   Unfortunately, by doing this, I was able to guess the plot twist that was coming about fifty or so pages before if happened.  Also, the authors suffer from something that a lot of modern Trek writers are falling prey to these days--novelizing scenes from classic Trek episodes.  While it's not nearly as bad as the Michael Jan Friedman trilogy &quot;My Brother's Keeper&quot; it's still annoying enough to take you out of the novel for the few pages its include (also, thankfully they don't fall into Friedman's trap of novelizing the entire episode for us).  <br />But the good points far out weight the nitpicky points in this novel.  This is one of the more enjoyable Trek novels I've read in a while and it's got my interest up not only for the next book but the entire Lost Era series.  It also makes me wonder if a series featuring Sulu and his Excelsoir crew wouldn't be welcome.  I know there are already a lot of on-going Trek fiction series out there, but if the stories for Sulu and company are going to be this good, I think I could make a bit more space on the bookshelf for more such stories.	2003-08-07
US	50345944	R3N6GGO7GEDDKD	0743448529	449149424	Three (Star Trek: Stargazer) (Bk. 3)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good but not great	Honestly, I don't know what I keep giving Michael Jan Friedman Trek novels a chance--or more importantly my hard earnec cash.  I think it's because I remember the simple joy I had reading his early Trek fiction works such as Legacy and Double, Double.  I keep picking up his books hoping that the spark will be there again--and time and again I come away feeling disappointed.<br />Such is the case with Friedman's entry into the on-going Trek novels with the Stargazer series.  I wouldn't necessarily say that Friedman's Stargazer books are necessarily bad, but when compared to the stories being told by Peter David in the New Frontier series and the super work done by multiple authors in the DS9 relaunch, the Stargazer series isn't living up to expectations.  <br />I will give Three some credit--it didn't make me want to hurl it against the wall like the past story in this saga did.  That is probably damning by faint praise, but it saved the book and my walls a good deal of abuse.   <br />The story is a pretty standard one.  A mysterious woman who looks like one of the established set of twins--Gerda and Idun--mysteriously shows up on the Stargazer.  Meanwhile, Vigo is meeting with an old mentor to see a new weapon design--that is until terrorists take over the base to try to start a revolution.  Honestly, I've got to admit the Vigo plotline never really drew me in.  It seemed to be a bit of a distraction from what was really interesting--the stranger from another universe who may or may not have her own agenda.   (Of course, she does...and it's so heavy-handed in how it plays out over the course of the book.  I will give Friedman credit that he tries to play a red herring in the book but it is so obvious as to be laughable).  <br />Part of the problem with the book is it's too choppy. Friedman doesn't carry on a scene for more than two or three pages and that gets distracting after a while.  Also, the ending comes a bit too quickly.  It almost seems as if Friedman had aset page limit and tried to force an ending into it rather than allowing it to happen as a function of the plot.  <br />So, why do I keep coming back to the Stargazer series, you ask.  Honestly, I am intrigued by the concept of Picard as a young man who might make mistakes.  Also, seeing the admiral who hates him so much and the lengths the admiral goes to keep Picard out of the limelight is intriguing.  <br />And I keep hoping to find the type of storytelling that hooked me on Michael Jan Friedman's Trek novels to begin with.  This book has moments of it, but they are too few and far between.	2003-08-07
US	50345944	R3G9DXPM0M70LX	0552999458	771413298	Dead Famous	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A diverting little mystery	Ben Elton takes a page from the Agatha Christie style of murder mystery--bring together a group of potential suspects, let a murder occur and then have an outside try to piece together the threads that will deliver the solution.  Elton's twist on this classic story of the genre is to have the murder take place inside a reality TV show house where all the action is broadcast to the world 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  With all that coverage, how could someone commit the crime in question, much less have there be a mystery surrounding it?<br />Edlund does a nice job with creating the situation and populating it with interesting characters.  And the hook of the murder taking place inside a Big Brother type house is enough to keep you turning the pages.  There are lots of red herrings in the book and the identity of the murderer won't be too shocking when you finally find out who it is.  But the mystery itself isn't necessariliy what I'd call terribly deep or complex.  But then again, this book isn't intended to be deep and complex on the same level as a Minette Walters or an Elizabeth George novel.<br />Instead, what you get are some rather memorable characters that inhabit the story.  There's an awfully lot of rather witty dialogue and some interesting observances on the popularity of reality TV and what it means to our culture.  Also looked at is the type of people who go on these shows.  Yes, there's a lot of emphasis on wanting to make things sexy and interesting for the sake of ratings.<br />In the end, the story isn't necessarily the deepest, but the book is still an entertaining one.  It's not going to require a great deal of thought.  It's an ideal read for a long summer afternoon by the pool or after a long day of work when you don't want to work the grey cells too much.	2003-07-18
US	50345944	R33E0P1N9I74AP	0446611212	147933002	Violets Are Blue (Alex Cross)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Trite and pedestrian	...After being thoroughly disappointed by the last two novels by Patterson that I picked up--his Murder Club series--I figured I'd give him another chance with the latest Alex Cross story, Violets Are Blue.  ...Violets are Blue is just plain deplorable.  The sentence structure reads like something out of a \\"See Spot Run\\" book and the storytelling isn't much better.  Supposedly, Cross has been pursued by some person called the Mastermind...  However, the secret to the identity of the Mastermind is so obvious from the first 10 pages of the book that it's not really any fun to keep on reading and find out if your suspicions are confirmed or not.  As for the rest of the story--involving Cross investigating a series of murders based around a vampire cult and maybe falling in love with his co-worker...well, it's pretty much yawn inducing the entire way around.  ...	2002-11-01
US	50345944	R1EB7CQMUWAEO2	0743448197	470106474	Captain's Peril (Star Trek)	Books	3	27	31	N	N	Predictable.	The first three \\"Shatnerverse\\" novels were met by Star Trek fans with a rare kind of anticipation.  After all, what could be better than the story of Kirk told from the man who had brought him to life for over 30 years?  It was a must-have for any Trek fan.  And the thing is--those first three books really delivered on the promise.  The original Shatner trilogy is one of the better multi-novel sequences out there.  <br />However, after a rather lackluster trilogy, Shatner (and the Reeves-Stevens) return with the start of another trilogy.  Honestly, after how poorly wrapped up the Mirror Universe trilogy was, I wasn't anticipating the start of a new saga in the Shatnerverse.  However, I still had some hope for the Captain's Peril to be a good Trek book.  After all, Pocket's track record this year has been fairly impressive.<br />But \\"The Captain's Peril\\" seems more like it was written to meet a quota--it's a new calendar year, so we need a new Trek book by Shatner and the Reeves-Stevens.  The story sees Picard and Kirk taking a vacation of Bajor where they will orbital skydive and then go on an archaelogical expedition.  Of course, things go awry from Kirk and Picard almost perishing while skydiving to then finding things amiss at the Bajoran archelogical dig.  Before you know it, Kirk is up to his ears in a murder mystery and looking into the past of Bajor.  Meanwhile, we are given a story of one of Kirk's early missions--set before \\"Where No Man Has Gone Before.\\"   <br />Of the two plots, the early story is the most compelling since it tries to delve into the early relationship Kirk had with his crew and filling the shoes of the then-legend Christopher Pike.  However, the problem with both plots is they are rather heavy-handed at time.  They are also predictable as all get out.  The deep, dark secret at the end of the Bajoran plotline is spelled out in the first few pages of the book.  Add to it an abrupt stop to the story mid-way through for Picard and Kirk to debate the merits of the Prime Directive (Kirk sees it as being an obstacle to really exploring) and it adds up to a less than satifsying read.  <br />One thing that the early Shatnerverse novels did was take chances.  The idea of bringing Kirk by using Borg nanotechnology was intriguing and revoluationary.  However, in The Captain's Peril the attempted risks in intriguing storytelling are underminded by the reader knowing certain things can't stay the way they unfold in the book.  There must be a giant reset button at the end and while it's not as groan-inducing as it could be, it does serve to take you out of the narrative flow.  <br />Overall, this isn't the weakest of the Shatnerverse novels, but neither is it the best. It's content to do well for about 300+ pages, setting up the storyline for the next novel.  In a lot of ways, the Shatner novels have gone from something to really look forward to, to just your standard Trek novels.	2002-10-17
US	50345944	R1ZSMBJHCJUIDX	0743445600	25499919	Mission Gamma Book One: Twilight (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk. 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great start to a continuing Trek	DS9 was the richest and most textured of any of the modern Trek shows, so the idea that it could continue long beyond our television screens and in a series of novels wasn't exactly a huge stretch.  But the fact that it would continue and continue as well as it has is nothing short of a miracle.  The DS9 saga continues on the printed page and if you're a fan of DS9 or just looking for a good Trek saga, you can't really go wrong with Twilight.  <br />Twilight is the first of a four-book arc that delves into the exploration of the Gamma Quadrant.  The story builds slowly, continuing the events of the last time we saw the DS9 crew in the Gateways saga.  It then is content to move into the build-up to and exploration of the Gamma Quadrant by the Defiant.  But there's a lot more being explored here than just space itself.  The relationships between characters are also being explored--from Vaughn and his daughter Prynn to Quark and Ro to Bashir and Ezri to Kira and her relationship with Bajor and the Federation now that she's been Attained.   It's the character exploration that really powers the story and keeps the pages turning.  And there are a good number of pages to be turned--this book checks in at just over 500 pages.  But it's worth it. <br />There are some major surprises in here and some things that will have great interest to the on-going DS9 storyline.  I won't ruin them here for you--it takes out part of the fun.  David R. George also takes on the length of the Star Trek universe by bringing in some old friends and new some races as well.  It all adds up to what may be one of the most enjoyable Treks published this year--and with Greg Cox's latest Khan masterpiece, In the Name of Honor and Immortal Coil all lurking out there, that is saying a great deal.  <br />I will say this--if you've not read any of the other DS9 re-launch novels, I'd sugget picking them up first. It will make this reading experience that much more rich and enjoyable.  This is the kind ofbook that makes me anxious for the next installment and restores my faith in Trek publishing.	2002-09-12
US	50345944	R2LEGRYWZKTHA6	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A thoughtful, fast-paced SF novel	When the list of nominees for the 2001 Hugos came out, I was surprised to see this novel on it. I'd not heard a lot of buzz about it, but after reading the premise, it sounded rather intriguing.  I picked it up and decided to give it a try.<br />And was pleasantly surprised by the novel. The basic premise is simple--30 years in the future, a future warlord named Kuin is sending back massive statues to himself and his victories in an attempt to ensure that his rise to power is inevitable.  The premise is an intriguing one and brings up some interesting questions about the nature of time travel and the role of cause and effect should such a thing be employed in such a way.  But what sets the Chronoliths apart from other such books is the fact that Wilson chooses to focus on on a first-person narrator named Scotty who relates who the appearance of the statues and their subsequent effect on the world of the future, effects he and his family directly.  Scotty's first-person narration makes this novel incredibly readable and fast-paced.  The only point at which the story bogs down is when Wilson jetissons his fast-paced narrative approach in an attempt to try and explain how the Chronoliths might work.  <br />Overall, this is an enjoyable book and one of the better premises that I've seen in a SF book in a while.  Whether or not the premise and the great storytelling is enough to garner it a Hugo remains to be seen.  But it is one of those books that leaves you considering the implications of the ending of the novel long after the final page has been turned.	2002-08-21
US	50345944	R3HSUGW2YCWQPL	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	2	5	8	N	N	A page-turner...but not in a good way.	James Patterson's second installment of his Women's Murder Club series is a fast pased but ultimately unsatisfying read.  The central mystery is an intriguing one--a killer is targeting police officers and those connected to police officers who are connected to a mysterious series of events that took place years ago.<br />It's an idea that has merit and has been done better in other mystery stories--most notably anything by Elizabeth George.<br />The mystery has twists and turns, most of them fairly laughable and rather redundant.  The Women's Murder Club seems to have everything that could possibly go wrong happen to them--apparently Patterson has decided that at least one of them must suffer a major medical ailment per novel.  There are numerous red herrings that come and characters drop broad hints to past events, right before being killed or forced to leave the narrative.  This lead to me feeling frustrated with the novel, but no as much so as when I got to the end.  Patterson pushes a red herring for several pages only to pull a culprit out of left field to finish the book on a rather unsatisfying note.<br />I've read both of the books in this series and have been, quite frankly, underwhelmed.  The mysteries are paper-thin at best, the suspense not really that mind-shattering and the charactes are, at times, one-dimesional. If you are looking for a good and largely forgettable read, try this one. If you want a real mystery with depth that keeps you guessing to the end, find anything by Elizabeth George.	2002-07-02
US	50345944	R1O62NE49LWPWY	0743449096	690568493	The Last Roundup (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Bland Trek fiction	The latest Star Trek hardcover novel, \\"The Last Round-Up\\" promises to be the \\"final\\" adventure of the origianl series crew.  However, instead of sending the crew riding off into the sunset in a blaze of glory, we instead get them slumping to the finish line in a novel that is rather derivative of a lot of things you've read before in Trek fiction.<br />The story starts out with Captain Kirk, teaching classes at the Acadamy, but not fully satisfied with his life now that he's not commanding a starship (shades of Star Trek II).  He is approached by his two nephews about going out to help them start a colony, based upon peaceful principles and doing pure scientific research. Figuring he could use the adventure and to get away from a student who is annoying him (a character created specifically for this book called Skalli, who gets real old, realy fast), Kirk agrees.  But it turns out the planet his nephews and company are colonizing isn't all it was advertised to be (imagine that) and before you know it Kirk is up to his neck in a plot that threatens the entire future and stability of the Federation. <br />Christie Golden's first attempt at writing a classic Star Trek novel comes off as a rather pedestrian affair.  It's got the feeling of the been-there, done-that throughout.  In a lot of ways, the idea of Kirk heading out to set-up a colony echoes the six-part summer series New Earth from two summers ago.  There are some twists and turns, but they are fairly obvious what they will be long before they are revealed in the book.<br />But for all it's disappointing aspects, the Last Round-Up has a few things to recommend. Golden does a decent job capturing the character of Kirk and she does have an intriguing idea of the Klingons owing him a favor and wanting to repay it after the events of Star Trek VI.  However, these two things don't add up to enough to really make this one worth the hardcover price.  The Last Round-Up is a fairly quick and then largely forgettable read.  If you're really interested, I'd recommend waiting for paperback on this one.	2002-06-28
US	50345944	R5N8GEC3MVSJW	0441009360	72874657	Knight Life	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fun and entertaining.	What if King Arthur came back today?  And what if instead of being the king of England, he did something radically different--such as run for mayor of New York City?  <br />Those questions serve as the premise for Peter David's first novel, Knight Life.  For years, Knight Life was hard to find--its popularity among David fans is well-known.  Thankfully, David has ended the long searches through used bookstores by updating his novel and releasing it again in hardcover for a new generation of fans to pick up and enjoy.   <br />If you like Peter David's usual writing style, you're in for a treat here. David pays homage to the basic tenants of the Arthurian legend while putting his own, comic spin on a lot of it.  David has apparently done his homework and done it well, but he doesn't take it so seriously that he can't have some fun with it. There are a lot of absolutely laugh-out loud sequences in the book, from the Lady of the Lake rising up in Central Park and being covered with trash to the running joke about Merlyn's reverse aging and looking like a teenager.   <br />This modern-day retelling of the Arthur story works very well and you can see the joy that David has in writing it.  Some passages seem to be in the same vein as William Goldman's The Princess Bride.  David pays homage, but also pokes holes in the coventions of the stories he is re-telling, just as he did last year with his great Sir Appropos of Nothing.<br />If you've a Peter David fan, this is a must-read. If you've heard good things about him, start here and then head on to Sir Apropos and Imazadi.  All of them are great stories by a great author.	2002-06-21
US	50345944	R2H5A1NR7KQM7L	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Suffers from second book syndrome.	I read the first of the Left Behind novels a little over a year ago and never really felt any compelling need or desire to continue reading the series. But based on the recommendation of several friends, I picked up the second novel in the series and gave it a try. <br />And while I liked Tribulation Force and it was a fairly quick read, I can't say that I was overly impressed by it.  <br />Please don't misunderstand me--the authors have done a great job of researching the end times as predicted in Revelations and creating a world in which those events are coming to pass.  If they stuck to that alone, my rating for this story would be a lot higher than it is.   It's just that they don't write characters very well. None of the main protagonists feels very three-dimensional and that causes me to lose interest in them from time to time.  Add to it that they pause every four pages to reflect on the events that have taken place up until now and it can get tedious quickly.  <br />I will, however, give the authors one thing--they know how to end a book.  Tribulation Force ends on a cliffhanger and it's enough of one that I'm curious to pick up book three and see how the events continue to play out.	2002-04-24
US	50345944	R1B8C2GKNTCYW3	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Doesn't live up to the hype.	Killing Time was my first introduction to Caleb Carr's work.   Having heard good things about his previous works--especially the Alienist--and being a science-fiction fan, I decided to give his latest novel a try.  <br />And I've got to admit I was wholly disappointed with Kiling Time.  The novel starts off with an interesting hook and tries to build on it for the first 50 or so pages. But it completely derails throughtout by a lack of focus and the fact that the plot needlessly jumps from storyline to storyline with little regard for the characters.  Indeed, outside of the first person narrator and the token female, Larissa, the rest of the characters are wholly forgettable.  <br />Carr has some interesting ideas--and indeed some of the events that play out in this book are especially haunting in the post-Sept. 11th climate.  But Carr's future is too bleak--even novels that present bleak futures like Gibson's Neuromancer offer us some hope in the basic decency of humanity and the human condition.  No such luck with Killing Time.  Carr does some speculation on where the world might be in a few years, but it's too bleak to be believed.  <br />Honestly, this book is just a disappointment.  If you're looking for quality science-fiction, look elsewhere.	2002-04-24
US	50345944	R28JS5K9TR8ROX	0345443004	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Bubble-gum Star Wars	Once upon a time, Alan Dean Foster wrote a little novel called \\"Splinter of the Mind's Eye.\\"  Splinter was set between A New Hope and Empire and has long since been forgotten in terms of the continuity.  It exists now as an intriguing little piece of speculative fiction on what might have been--a curiousity, but little else.<br />Hopefully this will be the same fate of Alan Dean Foster's latest Star Wars entry, \\"The Approaching Storm.\\"  <br />The real tag for this book is that it's a prequel to the upcoming episode 2. That's what got my interest up and made me eager to read the novel.  However, like the episode one prequel \\"Cloak of Deception\\" this entry suffers from the inability to draw the reader deeply into the plot or to make you care much about the characters.  Foster has created an entire world of characters and situations--all of which are largely forgettable ten minutes after having read the novel.  The story is basically Obi-Wan and Anakan, along with another Jedi and her Padawan, are sent to keep a world from seceding from the Republic. On the world involved, there are many factions--esentially boiling down to the city vs the country inhabitants and the Jedi's attempts to bring the sides together and keep the planet in the Republic. <br />Along the way there is a kidnapping, some comic relief and some lightsaber fights, but little else. If you're looking to catch a glimpse of what's been happening between TPM and now, you're going to be out of luck. Vague hints of Anakin's being powerful and maybe being out-of-control are thrown in left and right as well as Anakin's feelings of missing his mother.  Foster repeatedly beats the reader over the head with melodramatic moments so that they quickly become tired and tedious.  Maybe after seeing episode 2 these will all make more sense, but I'm not really inclined to put too much stock in any of what took place here.<br />The only thing this book has going for it over Splinter is that it's officially endorsed byLucasFilm.  So, the events here may not be addressed in the film, but they won't be contradicted later.  <br />If you're a Star Wars completist, give it a try.  If you're looking for a good appetizer to the next Star Wars film, look elsewhere.	2002-04-11
US	50345944	R1QSSCCLKRGUA9	074343434X	486466475	The Battle of Betazed (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An untold tale, told well.	Pocket Book's batting average for the year 2002 in terms of Star Trek novels just keeps getting better and better.  After leading off the year with the home run efforts of In the Name of Honor and Immortal Coil, the Star Trek line hits a stand-up double here with the Battle of Betazed. <br />The Battle of Betazed is set between the events of Star Trek: First Contact and Insurrection and somewhere in the fifth or sixth season of DS9.  Betazed has fallen to the Dominion who are hoping to use it as a rallying point to make their conquest of the Alpha Quadrant complete.  The crew of the Enterprise E--along with a few guest stars such as O'Brien and Worf from DS9 and Commander Elias Vaughn from the superlative DS9 relaunch--set out to liberate Betazed.  But their plan is a risky one.   For in order to liberate Betazed, Troi must turn to one of the most dangerous criminals to ever come out of Betazed--a man who can literally kill people with the power of his mind.  <br />The real strength of the book is the ethical dilemma that Troi and the people of Betazed face--desparate times call for desparate measures. The authors do a great job with showing how in the depths of despair, people will cling to any shred of hope to be free and realize the ends may justify the means.  Another strength of the novel is that there are three plotlines carried on at once and the authors keep a good balance of shuttling back and forth between them.<br />That said, the ending is what takes the book down a bit.  The moral and ethical dilemma is too quickly and easily resolved.  I won't give it away, but it was fairly obvious of where the storyline was going about 100 pages before the end. And while there are some nice references to the past of Trek, they aren't as seamlessly integrated into the storyline as they were in Jeffrey Lang's Immortal Coil.<br />That said, the Battle of Betazed is still worth reading.  It does what Trek books should do--take a missing era of Trek history and shine thelight on it.  Pocket Books could do far worse than to have other Dominion War novels on the shelf in the near future.	2002-04-01
US	50345944	R2RKLXSSQ3N7XJ	0060006293	51838870	Home to Harmony	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A town of familiar faces.	Having read Phillip Gulley's \\"Front Porch Tales,\\" I was eager and intrigued to pick up his first work of fiction, \\"Home to Harmony.\\"  And I'm happy to report that the magic and wonder that made \\"Front Porch Tales\\" such an enjoyable read is present here. <br />The story is told from the perspective of Sam Gardner, who grew up in the small town of Harmony and has now returned as the minsiter of the local Quaker congreagation.  There's no real plot to the novel, so much as there are anecdotes about the various people and places in town.  Gulley's Harmony reminds of the calm, tranquility that first make Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegon so enduring to listeners and then readers. (Indeed, at times throughout the book I found myself yearning to hear Mr. Gulley's voice telling us these stories).  At the end of each chapter, Gulley presents us with the moral of the story or makes a good point. He's never heavy-handed with it and the point he's trying to make fits seamlessly into the stories.<br />If you're looking to slip into a comfortable place that's gentle and calm, I highly recommend a trip to Harmony.  The book and the stories are as comfortable as old friends.	2002-04-01
US	50345944	R25YZDNGJNJRNR	0743405927	740288423	Immortal Coil (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reminiscent of the Giant Novels	Before there were hardcover Star Trek novels, there were the Star Trek Giant novels--books that were a bit thicker in length, a bit heftier in the price and a lot deeper than most of the standard, monthly Star Trek novels coming out on the market. Immortal Coil is one of the few Trek books I've read of late that acutally reminds me of the glory days when the huge, series-tying together, taking Trek to new depths novels often happened first in the paperback editions.<br />A lot of praise has been heaped on this book and it's well deserved.  If you're a Trek fan of all the shows, you're in for a real treat. This one has ties to at least three different TOS episodes, a half-dozen or more TNG stories and a smattering of DS9 and Voyager.   In short--it's a Trek geek's dream to sit back and let the references come and try to place them.  But if you're not a die-hard Trek fan, there's still an enjoyable story in this novel.  At the heart of the book is a mystery that's as good as any I've read by the person I consider to be the greatest modern mystery writer, Elizabeth George. Like George's novels, the story is about more than just the mystery--it's about the lives of the characters involved.  Lang makes his supporting cast come alive with depth, intelligence and sympathy. There aren't really any bad guys per se, so much as different sides being motivated to achieve their own ends.  Each side percieves they are doing the right thing and that makes for an immensely enjoyable book.<br />Why only four stars you say?  Well, I'd give it four and a half if I could. There were some things in the book that struck me as odd. For one thing, one of the plot revelations was easily deduced after reading the first fifty pages.   <br />After January's superlative In the Name of Honor, Immortal Coil continues the (so-far) new year trend of bringing out enjoyable and entertaining Trek books.  These two books have set a high standard for entertaining, intelligent Trek fiction to start the year 2002 off right. Let's just hope they keep getting it right.	2002-03-13
US	50345944	R3SKAEYGCP0U7X	0743412257	222353890	In the Name of Honor (Star Trek)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	An enjoyable Trek novel	After winning the first Strange New Worlds short story contest and publishing two other Trek short stories in the subsequent volumes, Dayton Ward turns his attention to his first full-length Star Trek novel.  In the Name of Honor is set between Star Trek V and Star Trek VI and attemtps to examine the shift in Kirk's attitude toward the Klingons as well as to answer a few questions of how the Klingons evolved from their portrayal on the original series to the time of Next Generation.  <br />For a first time author, Ward does an admirable job of creating a page-turner of a novel. The book weighs in at well over 300 pages but it never feels long or as if it were being padded. If anything, at the end of the novel, you'll feel the book is too short because of the attention and care Ward has given to each of the plotlines.  Ward takes the original series cast and runs with them, giving each character something to do and pairing them with another Klingon who is equally interesting and brings a lot to the novel. It's to Ward's credit that his secondary characters that he created himself are both interesting and memorable--I've read far too many Trek Klingon tomes where the secondary Klingon characters tend to jumble together.  This is not the case here.  Ward also litters the storyline with nice references to the Original Series and TNG.  There's even a reference to Enterprise as well!  <br />In my mind, there are three types of Trek books: <br />1.  The type that tells a story that is a good sci-fi story but may not necessarily fit the Trek universe. <BR>2.  The type that tells a good Trek story with the characters acting the way we've come to expect based on the series but doesn't try and break any new ground.<BR>3.  The type that has the characters acting like they should but also tries to answer some unanswered questions and may draw upon several episodes of one series or attempt to try together some strings from various series into a coherent book.  <br />Wards first effort falls into the category of the third novel, something that is, at times, extremely rare in today's Trek fiction.  In a lot of ways, this book had me thinking of one of my favorite older Trek novels, The Final Reflection for what it attempts to do with the backstory of the Klingons.  And Ward pulls off the transition between the end of the original crews days and the beginning of TNG with remarkable wit and style.<br />Finally, the book is just plain fun to read. The writing style is light and accessible and never heavy-handed.  Ward has a sense of humor--and while it's not as broad as Peter David's it still works well. <br />All in all, a good start to the Trek publishing year.	2002-01-08
US	50345944	RN6UOSXU8B0I8	0743448715	30837768	By the Book (Star Trek (Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Entertaining	By The Book is the first original novel produced for the latest installment in the Trek franchise--Enterprise.  And for a first original novel, By The Book works fairly well.  <br />Dean Wesley Smith and Kristine Kathryn Rusch do a good job with the characters and capture them well. One of the highest compliments that can be paid to a novel based on a TV series is that you can actually hear the characters speaking the lines the authors give them--and that is very much the case here.  Smith and Rusch really do deserve a lot of credit for making the characters come alive with such a flair.  <br />That said, the plot is fairly standard. Archer and company encounter a new planet where there are two races--one in the northern hemisphere the other in the south.  Archer blows first contact with both races due to his enthusiasm and things go downhill from there.  There's not much action, but there is great deal of debate about the first contact and then the implications.  While this novel is a fairly short Trek book--about 250 pages--it does feel a bit longer due to the constant debate over the actions (or lack thereof) and should or should they not be taken.  Again, I understand the authors were limited based on the background material given--at the time of writing there could only have been three or four episodes of Enterprise aired.  However, it does drag down the book a bit.  Also, the authors are trying to introduce the idea that the Prime Directive is needed and why it is. Unfortunately, it's done so obviously and so often that it doesn't pack any great surprise or revelations.<br />So, if you want a book that gets the chracters right and tells a decent story, this is one to try. If you're looking for something that is a groundbreaking first original novel for a Trek series, I recommend Peter David's DS9 novel, &quot;The Siege.&quot;	2002-01-02
US	50345944	R2NA5DXFKEY1EX	0671021273	926743636	The Eugenics Wars Vol I:  The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh (Star Trek)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Good start to the series.	Greg Cox has never been my favorite Trek author. I found his Q Continuum trilogy to be entertaining at first, only to fizzle out at the end and Assigment: Eternity to be just a pretty decent read, but nothing to write home about.<br />So, I must admit that while I looked forward to the Eugenics War, I was a bit hesistant going into it. <br />All I've got to say is--so far, so good. <br />The Eugenics War, Book 1 is an enjoyable read. Cox takes the subject of giving us Khan's backstory set against the background of recent history and does a nice job of weaving them together. There's just enough real world, actual events in the story and reference through the actions of Khan, Gary Seven, Robert and Isis to give the book a &quot;alternate history&quot; feel without feeling like it's stretching the truth too much to fit the fiction Cox is trying to tell. Cox's novel gives us the first few years of Khan's life--from his creation as a genetically enhanced child to his early teens. The story is told as a flashback of sorts--Kirk is sorting out a colony that wants to use genetic manipulation and looks to Khan's story to find out the strengths and weaknesses inherent in such research. The framing story of Kirk and company is well told, though it's not too intrustive in this book. It's enough to keep interesting and neither plotline feels like it's taking away from the other in any way.<br />And Cox has a good grasp of the orignal series crew in the limited time that we encounter them. <br />But the real success of this books rests on Cox's recreation of Khan, Gary Seven and Robert Lincoln. Cox's Seven is intriguingly developed and we really get to see the payoff on some of the promise of Assignment: Earth. (Admittedly it's not one of my favorite Trek episodes, but Cox takes the characters and really runs with them.) Of course, there are references to the entire continuity of the first four Trek shows. I caught many of them, but I am sure that others just flew over my head. That's another strength of this book--if you get the references, it adds to your enjoyement. If you don't get them, you don't feel like you've missed anything. <br />The book is a real page-turner, though I will admit it took about 50 pages for me to get into it. Once I managed past those, the other 250 pages flew by and left me anxious for more when part 2 arrives in April.<br />All in all, the Eugenics War, Book 1 is a nice start and shows strong promise to this series.	2001-12-05
US	50345944	R2HHA80XFYYFCT	0743418573	268688798	Gateways #5: No Man's Land (Star Trek: Voyager - Gateways) (Bk.5)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Decent but not great Trek	This book is easily the weakest of the Gateways series so far.  Part of it can be blamed on the fact that the Voyager is simply too far away from the events that are taking place in the Alpha Quadrant to get the reader to care much (whereas the TNG, DS9 and NF appear to share a common linking thread of seeing the various crews work toward the same goal and getting three different perspectives on that, the Voyager book finds the crew outside the loop and thus, clueless as to what is going on, which is frustrating. Had this book been the first of the series, it might have been better).  Another problem with the book is that the characters are too one-dimensional--including the new aliens we meet.  It's obvious who the good and the bad guys are from the beginning. Finally, the ending of the novel is far too forced to be believed. I found myself wanting to throw the book aside in frustration several times in the final 50 or so pages.<br />The book is very loosely linked to the Gateways saga.  There are times when the Gateways concept seems forced upon the book--almost as if the author had a good idea for a story but was forced to make it fit into the current series.  Overall this leads to a lot of my dissatisfaction with this book.	2001-10-03
US	50345944	R2V6DYZCL5KTV4	0671774832	730207011	Section 31: Abyss (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A nicely done Star Trek novel	Of the four Section 31 novels, this is the one I was looking forward to the most. After the nicely done re-launch of the DS9 saga in S.D. Perry's Avatar duology, I was eager to get my hands on this story to see how the story would continue to grow and develop.  <br />Needless to say, I was not disappointing.  The authors do a nice job of combining now only Bashir's mission to stop a Section 31 operative gone rogue, but also giving us some nice moments with the new regular DS9 cast (with the exception of Jake, but if you've read Avatar, you'll know why.)  The most intriguing are Kira as she struggles to come to terms with the fact that she's been banished from public practice of her faith and Vaughn, who seems to be a bit more mysterious than he's actually telling.  But the real stars of the book of Bashir and Ezri Dax, who get some nicely done development.  Bashir's horror at discovering another genetically engineered person who has aspirations of being the next Khan is nicely done.<br />What the books does best is that it paints things in shades of gray.  Yes, the new villain has aspirations of being Khan but the authors show some compelling reasons as to why this might occur.  <br />All in all, this books is what it should be--a character driven peace that develops the characters in new and interesting ways. The DS9 relaunch is the most exciting thing to happen to Trek fiction since New Frontier.  I can't wait for the next installment.	2001-08-10
US	50345944	R1JDJLFC2K6RRH	0671774719	91318837	Section 31:  Cloak (Star Trek)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	An enjoyable classic Trek read	After two rather disappointing novels (Rogue and Shadow), the Section 31 novels take a dramatic upturn in terms of quality and storytelling with S.D. Perry's third Trek novel in as mnay months, Cloak. Set firmly in Trek's third season, this novel does what the best Trek novels can and should do--take threads from various episodes and weave them into an interesting, intellignet story.  The book succeeds in large part because we get to see some background to events that occur during the third season--most notably McCoy's finding out about his illness that we'll hear about in &quot;For the World is Hollow....&quot; and his coming to grips with that. We've got some nice character work done with Kirk and Perry attempts to explain just why Kirk had so many relationships the third season and does a pretty good job of it.<br />All of the original series characters are in fine form here. Each gets to contribue a little something to the storyline and the premise.  Slipping into and out of Cloak is like seeing old friends--you get to remember things about them you'd forgotten.  It's a wonderful and enjoying book that's just right for the summer reading season.	2001-07-13
US	50345944	R3BZUHL4NEYSGC	0671774778	113828566	Section 31:  Rogue (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	3	6	17	N	N	I hope the rest of this series gets better.	For years there have been rumors that there would be a homosexual character prominently features on one of the Star Trek series. When the movie, First Contact came out, a lot of speculation ran rampant about the preference of one Lt. Hawk since early reports indicated this would, at last, be such a character. However, the Trek producers wisely decided to neither confirm nor deny what sexual choice Hawk made.  I applauded them for this because this was keeping with Gene Roddenberry's vision of the future--a time in which such things would make no difference.  Instead, a person would be valued for who they are, not the color of skin or their sexual preference.<br />Apparently it was not enough to leave alone for some of the Trek authors out there.   The latest Section 31 novel, Rogue, seeks to explore the character of Lt. Hawk. And yes, folks, he's gay.  In fact, a great deal of the novel is spent hammering this point home. And to be honest, it really ruins the end of the novel when Hawk's partner gets overly sentimental and mushy about Hawk, making not only Picard uncomforable but the reader as well. Let me say this--I'd be uncomfortable with the kind of emotional gushing that's spouted here had it been Troi lamenting over the death of Riker or Picard lamenting over the death of Crusher.  It's silly and cliched and it ruins the book.  <br />Which is a shame as there's an interesting book in here struggling to get out.  The idea of Section 31 wanting to give a planet to the Romulans in exchange for information is nicely done. As are the return of Picard's old friends from Tapesty.  But it's really the character exploration of Hawk that had the most potential. In most of his scenes he does well. But it's only when the story comes to a screeching halt to discuss his preference that I began to dislike the character and what the authors were trying to do.  This book is certainly a lot more compelling than the Voyager novel and it kept my interest better. However, there are some interesing plot threads and ideas that are brought up but are never addressed.  Of course, there's the usual deceit on the Romulans part--they want the system that they are competing with the Federation for for an entirely different reason that you original suspect.   But the revelation of what is up in the system and why the Romulans want it comes a bit late in the story and it feels as though the authors rush to a conclusion.  <br />All in all, this book has its good points and its bad points.  I'm not sure if I recommend it or not.   It's certainly not as bad as the Voyager novel. But it's not up there with such great Trek books as Federation or Imazadi. Read at your own risk.	2001-05-31
US	50345944	RRSLOCNI442EV	0671774786	455969182	Section 31: Shadow (Star Trek Voyager)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Interesting if flawed	Well, if it's summer time, that must mean Pocket Books is once again ready to foist another Trek crossover, multi-book Trek series upon us. Last year's New Earth was good at first, sagged in the middle only to be redeemed in the end. This year, the Section 31 set kicks off with a series of novels examining the secret organization and its affect on the four shows.  On paper it sounds interesting and like it has some real potential.<br />First off (from what I've read you can read these in any order without really losing anything), there is the Voyager novel. The plot features a pretty standard civilization in danger and only Voyager can save them plot coupled with an attempt by Section 31 to do off with Seven of Nine. The main plot of the civlization in peril is a bit of a yawn at times--there are some nice characters but overall the dramatic thrust never materializes enough to be interesting--especially when it descends into cliches of the aliens not trusting Voyager and taking hostages.  The more interesting plot is just why Section 31 considers Seven of Nine a threat and is out to irradicate her. It's interesting to read that the organization can reach out as far as the Delta Quadrant and how it does is interesting.  However, the investigation into who is attacking Seven goes on a bit too long and some of the regular characters make unintelligent choices for the sake of prolonging the suspense of who is attacking Seven and why.  Also, Sevens' characterization is bit off--she seems a bit too arrogant and unlikeable.  She has these qualities in the show, but she becomes a two-dimensional character at times in this storyline.  Of course, the two plots intersect each other at certain points in the book.  To give away any details might take away some of the surprise, so I won't do that. <br />All in all, this book has potential, not all of it realized.   I think the TNG and DS9 books have the most potential in the series. VOY suffers from the same things the show does--being cut off from the Alpha Quadrant means there's little or not consequences to the story or any type of meaningful follow up to the actions and events shown here.	2001-05-22
US	50345944	R13BVE71PHAUXJ	0671785540	196342352	Diplomatic Implausibility (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 61)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good...but not great.	First of all, let me say that I'd award this novel 3 and a half stars, not just three.  <br />I picked up this book for a variety of reasons.  One was there was definite on-line buzz about the story. The second was that the premise intrigued me--exploring Ambassador Worf's first mission beyond his time on Deep Space Nine.  The third was that upon first glance, it brought up a lot of familiar characters from the history of TNG and DS9, which was very welcome.    It was these final two reasons for picking up this book that made me enjoy it so much.  As DeCandido says in his afterward, Worf was one of the most intriguing characters introduced by the modern Trek. And his story-arch through two series and the movies has been intriguing to watch. To see him accept the role of ambassador was interesting and that's why this book intrigued me so.  <br />And on many levels, Worf's work as ambassador is interesting. Worf becomes caught between two worlds--he must satisfy the needs of the Klingon Empire while not betraying the ideals and beliefs he has learned in his time with Starfleet. That kind of conflict within a character can make for excellent drama and a compelling novel. And for the most part, DeCandido succeeds in spades.  One of the biggest compliments you can pay a novel based on a TV show is that you can hear the actors delivering the lines in the novel.  You can definitely hear Michael Dorn's Worf throughout this book.  <br />And it's also nice to see a Trek writer bring in a lot of older characters and give us a chance to catch up on them.  It's a bit hard to believe they'd all come toghether on board one ship, but I can easily put that aside simply because DeCandido explores them so well.<br />But the part of this book that really took it down was the main plotine. Worf's being sent to a planet conquered by the Klingons but petitioning the Federation to help free them.  Certainly, we've seen this done before and there's not really anything new here.  There are rebels and there is the puppet governement run by the Klingons who are trying to supress the uprising.  We've seen this before and better done in the underrated TNG episode, &quot;The Hunted.&quot;  That episode gave us three-dimensional characters who interacted with each other and the crew to be interesting and believable.  Not so here. Instead we get aliens who are tall and furry.  There is little to distinguish them and the only one that comes off even remotely interesting is the puppet governor who resist the Klingons in his own way.  <br />The other part that bothered me is the ending.  It seems to come out of left field.  Given another 50 or so pages, DeCandido could have done wonders with this story.  He certainly made the story compelling and page-turning up until it comes abrubtly to a halt.  I won't give away any plot details here. Suffice it to say the ending is too quick and pat for my liking.<br />All in all, this novel has a lot of potential.  If you love Klingons, I recommend it.  If you liked Worf, again I recommend it. If you're looking for a truly great Klingon Trek story, I recommend you look to the underrated classic, &quot;The Final Reflection.&quot;	2001-02-05
US	50345944	R3AVJX93W9VSHI	0345427203	319827805	Out of the Darkness (Babylon 5: Legions of Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A nice wrap-up	Peter David's Centauri trilogy comes to a conclusion with a rivetting and entertaining book.  To say I'd been looking forward to this one is a bit of an understatement.  But I will admit I approached this book with a bit of excitment--and a bit of dread. After the superlative set-up not only by Babylon Five but also by the first two parts of this trilogy, part of me was prepare for a disappointment. <br />It never happened.<br />In a short 250 pages that literally fly by, David answers the questions raised by such superb B5 episodes as &quot;War Without End&quot; and &quot;Coming of the Shadows.&quot;  He brings to a close the character archs for Londo and G'Kar in satisfying ways.  And even though long-time B5 fans know how it all ends, the journey there and the emotional ramifications of what we discover in the end may surprise you.  I will admit they surprised me.<br />I would love to sit here and bring up plot points from the book, but to do so is to ruin the reading expereince.  You've got to come to it with a set of fresh eyes to really enjoy what happens here. I will say this--if you watched and enjoyed Babylon Five, pick-up this trilogy. It's got the goods. And if you've got someone you are trying to hook on B5, this is a good place to start. David does a nice job of keeping the plot going while giving subtle reminders of important points to the readers.  He doesn't summarize who episodes but he does give enough clues so that it will jar memories of long-time fans and let fans who might not have seen the series yet in on the fun.  I will warn you this trilogy is far more satisfying if you've seen all of Babylon Five's run, but if you're a new fan or just want a good read, you can't go wrong here.	2001-01-31
US	50345944	R3PZZ4BFTPPMYQ	0671035827	992426487	Cloak and Dagger (Star Trek Voyager, No 19, Dark Matters Book One of Three)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Not a great start to a trilogy	I'm not a huge Voyager fan and I'll admit that I've not picked up a lot of the Voyager books that are out there. (Usually the only time I go out of my way to buy a Voyager book is when it's part of an on-going series such as the Captain's Table).  But when I saw the description of this book and heard some good on-line buzz about this series and Ms. Golden in particular, I was interested enough to give the series a try. <br />And to be honest, after reading the first third of this trilogy, I'm not too eager to tackle the rest.  Part of the problem stems from the fact that while there is some decently done plot points covered in the book, they are too few and far between. I like seeing the Romulans and seeing their shadowy conspiracy and plots within plots.  Those scenes, in the beginning work. That is, until we find out what their real plot is, it's far too full of holes to be very convincing.  (I find it hard to believe the Romulans would devote so much energy to a plan that is so inherintly doomed to fail as finding Voyager and bringing it back through time).   <br />But sometimes holes in logic can be forgiven if the characters are done well.  Unfortunately, they aren't.  None of the characters gets a very accurate, intelligent look at them.  Indeed, if you watch Voyager regularily, you may find yourself wondering just who these people are in the book.  There is an attempt to explain this via a force called dark matter, but it's not convincing enough.  Also, once the characters are no longer affected by the dark matter, they act in the same ways, thus making the characterizations that much more disconcerting.<br />I can honestly say this was a dissapointing read for me.  I've got the other two books in the series, but they have slid down my reading list and it may be a while before I get back to them.  If you haven't bought them, I'd recommend you try another Trek book.  If you're looking for Romulan intrigue, try Vulcan's Heart or the Rhinansu books by Diane Duane.  Those are great reads and make Dark Matters 1 pale in comparison.	2001-01-02
US	50345944	REPZ57BTUQJPV	0671042432	132189272	Restoration (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just when you think it can't get any better	Just when you think Peter David can't get any better, he steps up to the plate and belts one out of the park again.  It's no secret that I think New Frontier is the most exciting Star Trek series out today--television, movies, print or otherwise.  Peter David has created a universe that positively hums and the best part is that we're allowed to watch the characters grow and develop over the course of the novels. And for once in a Trek series (outside of DS9) previous actions  have consequences in the long-term story arc.  <br />The latest book in the series is no exception.  This book, which I think is one of the longest New Frontier efforts David has given us, is an enjoyable read from beginning to end. Whereas the previous book in this latest storyline read as if written at warp speed, this one is content to unfold slowly and delicately, giving the reader a chance to slow down and enjoy the worlds David has created.  First of all, I will say this--Calhoune is not dead and there is praise all around.  Secondly, we get to Shelby in action as the captain of her ship and it's a joy to read.  It's amazing how far David has taken a one-time character and developed her.  <br />But the real strength is the supporting cast.  David gives Calhoune and Shelby real people to interact in their respective stories.  Indeed, characters who may only get a few paragraphs of book time are memorable and interesting.  <br />I will say that the ending is a bit much at times, but it's a fun rollercoaster ride and one that is worth taking.  I can overlook certain parts being overdramatic when it's done with such obvious joy and zeal.<br />So, by all means get to a bookstore and get this one.  It's superb and a great wrap-up to the trilogy.  It's not got a huge cliffhanger as the last four books have. But instead it's got an end that will leave me curious until the next book comes out in October.	2001-01-02
US	50345944	R1CPNKER6OQ3NQ	0553580485	642513420	Miracle and Other Christmas Stories	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Engaging holiday collection	Connie Willis offers readers an early holiday gift with this wonderful short story collection.  I admit that I found this book in the sci-fi section, but I honestly think it transcends that. Yes, it's got some stories that deal with themes common to science-fiction and have sci-fi elements, but it's more than that.  There is a holiday themed mystery, an examination of the original Christmas story and even a story that sets out to prove why Willis thinks &quot;Miracle on 34th Street&quot; is a superior holiday film to &quot;It's A Wonderful Life.&quot;  But what sets the collection apart from being just a collection of sci-fi stories with a Christmas theme is that Willis offers stories that must take place at Christmas.  As she states in her introduction, it's hard to re-invent the wheel when it comes to holiday stories and she doesn't attempt to do so.  Instead, she takes the convential stories and gives them her own unique twist making them entertaining and magical at the same time.  <br />I sat down to read this collection not feeling very much in the spirit of the season. But in reading these engaging and intelligent stories, I soon found myself feeling a bit more Christmas-y.   If you're feeling a bit burned out by the holiday season, pick up this collection and give any of the stories a try.  I guarantee they'll have you whistling a Christmas tune in no time.	2000-12-04
US	50345944	R1QSPZIOY07VHB	0671042106	934790066	Honor Blade (Star Trek, No 96/Rihannsu Book 4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A page-turner	The first thought I had after completing this book was that it was a shame that TNG didn't follow this path for the Romulans instead of what we got that eventually became canon. This book (along with the rest of the Rhinannsu books) have created an interesting, complex and entertaining society that would have been far more entertaining that what we got in the series.<br />The second part of a longer story keeps the pieces of the puzzle going.  The galaxy is at the brink of war and only a peace conference between the Romulans and the Federation might stop it. But there are plots within plots from all sides of the border and it looks as though war is inevitable.  Duane makes the journey a fascinating one by giving us both sides of the potential conflict. And we also see a bit of interesting perspective on Kirk and the crew of the Enterprise (that Starfleet considers anytime they do something spectacular to pull the fat out of the fire as an ordinary day at the office is a nice touch).  The events make the pages fly by and, honestly, make this book end just a bit too soon.  I am beginning to hate the words &quot;To Be Continued&quot; at the end of a Pocket series of Trek books.  First Peter David's superb New Frontier books keep me hanging and now Ms. Duane has done it again.  Unfortunately, there is no timetable on which the next segment of this series will appear.  I can only cross my fingers and hope that it's soon.	2000-10-23
US	50345944	R17AJX223PH7B1	0812534077	513391749	Memory and Dream	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A great beginning, a sagging middle and an interesting end	I picked this book up namely because a discussion group I participate in decided to read this.  Our reason for reading it--Mr. DeLint will be visiting a local sci-fi/fantasy con at the end of the year and we thought it might be good to have read some of his work should we go and meet him.  This being my first exposure to Mr. DeLint's work, I went in not sure what to expect.<br />What I found was a mostly enjoyable novel.  DeLint's style of writing reminds me a lot of Stephen King novels--namely you have strong protagonists that are caught up in a odd situation and you see how they react to it. In this case, it's the artist Isabelle and her relationship with her friend Kathy, her mentor and her art.  There are some other subplots thrown in to keep the plotlines advancing, but the real conflict comes from the interactions of these characters. The first third of the novel is superb and flies by.  It's the middle third where things bog down a bit.  Izzy's power is to create beings out of her artwork and the middle third of the book is spent debating the merits of this and discussing how she's done this.  It's entertaining at first but it wears thing after the first few times. Finally, the novel picks up in the final third as the events foreshadowed and referenced in the first third begin to play out.  <br />DeLint's strength here is his female characters.  They are all strong with intelligence, wit and personality. They are all distinct and Izzy and Kathy certainly hit all the right notes.  DeLint's providing of a jounral from Kathy's persepctive gives us a nice insight into her character.  <br />The weaknesses are that the temptation by the mentor to Izzy is just put out there and then dropped. (To say too much would be to ruin large portions of the novel).  Simply put, the temptation is too much for how little page time is given to it. Otherwise, the conclusion is simply superb.<br />But while the book has faults, it's strengths intrigue me. So much so that I am looking into reading more DeLint in the future.  I only hope he makes good on the promise he shows with this novel.	2000-10-23
US	50345944	R3CI02SH94WAU2	0671042092	99999671	Swordhunt (Star Trek, No. 95: Rihannsu, Book 3)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good book, too short!	I agree with the other reviewer that said you need to have read the first two books of this series.  Also recommended is to read Ms. Duane's super novel &quot;The Wounded Sky.&quot;  <br />The usual Diane Duane trademarks are all here--good characterization, excellent supporting cast and an interesting situation for the original series crew.  Duane has one of the richest supporting cast of Trek characters out there and she uses them all.  My biggest complaint is that Pocket has become far too greedy. This book and the one that follow are obviously intended to be one novel (the first chapter of the next book is Chapter Six and this one ends with Chapter 5) but instead it's split up so we can double the price.  Here's a novel idea, Pocket--if you want to have me ante up a large sum for one book, publish the next segement in hardcover and give me the whole story at once!  <br />OK, rant aside. <br />This is an entertaining series and worthy of reading. Duane does a lot of interesting things with the Romulans.  She makes them far more interesting than TNG did.  It's also interesting that she ties in some elements of John M. Ford's views on Klingons from &quot;The Wounded Sky.&quot;	2000-10-19
US	50345944	R3IFMTUG4S7GPH	0743411803	662278591	1: The Genesis Wave Book One (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Far short of expectations	&quot;The Genesis Wave&quot; is one of those books that attempts to answer a question that Trek fans have wondered about for a while--whatever happened to Project Genesis after it's use and the political ramifications depicted in Star Treks II-IV.  I'd like to say that this novel went a long way toward answering all of the questions that have been raised in mind over the years, but it doesn't. <br />When they first started out, Trek hardcovers were those books that were &quot;event&quot; novels--such as the classics &quot;Spock's World,&quot; &quot;Federation&quot; &quot;Imazadi&quot; or &quot;Q Squared.&quot;  And while there have been recent examples of a great Trek hardcover--&quot;Vulcan's Heart&quot;--they've gotten a bit more sporadic in quality.  In fact, in recent years, it seems as if Pocket has put some novels into hardcover simply for the fact that they can make a bit more money off a hardcover than a paperback.  Such is the case with the Genesis Wave.<br />I guess the idea of a sweeping book means that you must include a ton of characters from all the series and maybe, hopefully, answer a few continuity questions.  Peter David  is the master of this.  John Vornholt is not.  His inclusion of Leah Brahams in the plot has potential and hopefully we'll see it come to fruition in part two, but based on what I've read here, there's not much hope of that.  Next, you've got the extreme stretch of willing suspension of disbelief by still having Carol Marcus around.  Certainly the lengths Starfleet goes through to keep her secret and to insure the Genesis technology doesn't fall into the wrong hands is intriguing.  However, her inclusion falls flat and takes away from the novel.<br />My main problem is there is so much crammed into the novel that none of the disparaging, interesting plot threads gets enough time for any depth.  Certainly the page count isn't high in the book and I found myself wishing it was  bit more so we could get some depth to the characters.The TNG walks and talks like out of the show, but it never goes beyond that.  <br />Maybe I've been spoiled having read two Peter David books and currently working on Ms. Duane's superb classic Trek books.  However, the cliffhanger for this book left me not wondering what's happening next but sort of dreading the next part.  It doesn't have the impact that any of the New Earth or New Frontier cliffhangers had on me--namely that I wanted the next book and I wanted it now.  <br />It's a shame how far the Trek hardcovers have fallen.	2000-09-26
US	50345944	R379IQELT5J4KG	0671042386	905703132	Requiem (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 9)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Peter David delivers	Peter David's &quot;New Frontier&quot; series is easily the best thing to  happen to the Star Trek franchise in years.  In a time in which Voyager is  mired down in dull plots and a lack of character development, David is  following the Trek credo and exploring &quot;strange new worlds&quot; with  his series of novel.  The New Frontier books have always been about finding  the perfect blend of gripping plots, humorous moments and superlative  character development. And just when you think you've got it all figured  out and are getting comfortable, David pulls the rug out from under  you.<br />Such is the case with the latest novel.  At the end of the last  book, David ended with the destruction of the starship Excaliber.  The  novel picks up several weeks after the destruction of the ship and finds  the crew in a mandatory &quot;cooling down&quot; period before they are  given new assignemts--all except Shelby who uses the Excaliber's  destruction to force Starfleet to give her what she's always  wanted--command of her own.  After a lengthy scene in which the surviving  regulars (everyone but Calhoun) commiserate on the ship and say farewell,  the book takes off in several directions--all of them intriguing.  One is a  lightweight one featuring McHenry and Kebron going to a backwater planet to  stop a series of practical jokes pulled by Starfleet ensigns (they convince  the natives that aliens are attacking by doing such typical things as using  flashing lights and tipping cows).  Along the way, the stumble across  something far more insidious--an old foe from TNG is back...but to tell who  would be to ruin it all.  Next up, Si Cwan's sister Kalenda is haunted by  dreams of the death of their teacher and Si Cwan swears vengeance.  Add to  it the book's best plotline--Soleta finding out the Romulan who raped her  mother and is her biological father has been set free and how she confronts  him and the news that he's dying. The scene in which Soleta confronts him  forthe first time is chilling and complusively readable.  You can almost  feel the book getting heavier in your hands as you read it and the  temperature in the room get colder.  It's that good. <br />All in all, David  gives each of the plots balance and a great deal of depth and interest.   The pages fly by as everything spirals out of control into the final pages  in which you find out that not everything can or will be resolve in one  book. As with all the best books of a series, this one leaves you with more  questions than answers and leaves you utterly begging for more.  For my  fellow reader who complained that you don't find out why the Excaliber is  destroyed, keep reading. The explanation will come to you soon enough and  it's certainly shocking. <br />A must-read for any Star Trek fan out there.   This is Trek at its best.	2000-09-05
US	50345944	REPLCASAN1GUS	067178577X	414886127	Thin Air (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 5)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	3 1/2 Stars	The concept of New Earth is, on paper, fascinating.  <br />In execution, it's  been a series that is, at times, utterly entertaining and frustrating. The  frustration comes from the fact that there were a lot of potential  conflicts brought up in book one that haven't yet been addressed by the  series (methinks that Diane Carey will bring them up in the final leg of  the series but that's honestly, not good enough).  <br />This leg finds the  Kauld attempting to get to New Earth for the  olivium.  Their ingenous plan  this time is to destroy the atmosophere of New Earth, thus killing the  colonists.  Certainly the threat is a good one but it isn't as well  realized as I'd hoped. Also, while we get some reactions from the  colonists, none of them are really fleshed out enough.  Indeed, it's the  same reactions we saw in the other three books--horror and disdain at the  fact they've come so far to possibly fail.  <br />Kirk and company face a  great dilemma and, as usual, must stop it. It's not that I don't like  seeing Kirk and company in action. It's just that whole book as the  been-there, done-that feeling to it.   There's not much depth to the  characters and while one of them faces a tragic loss a lot of balls are  dropped in the course of the novels. (One potentially interesting plotline  of Kirk and McCoy both being romantically drawn to the same woman and the  possible conflicts this could bring up is simply dropped as McCoy just  accepts that the woman chooses Kirk over him and moves on.  There's a  chance for drama here but it's not explored!)<br />This novel ends some of the  on-going plotlines while leaving things open for Ms. Carey to finish up and  then create a series of on-going adventures for the Challenger crew.   I  think that this series could have used one driving voice behind them--such  as what happens with Peter David's New Frontier novels.  For good or bad,  they're all by one author and thus have a more rigid sense of continuity  and character development.  I'd gladly have endured a more long-term series  of novels stretched out over several months or years that lived up to the  promise that was set before us than this collection of disjointed novels.	2000-09-05
US	50345944	R2A5EPRTYXI5CR	0671042394	139288324	Renaissance (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 10)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb doesn't even begin to describe it.	I have a love/hate relationship with Peter David's book...I love them so  much that I can read them in one sitting, but I hate that they have to come  to end.  Such is the case with the new addition to the New Frontier  series--itself the second portion of a trilogy that won't be completed  until November (thankfully it's not a year otherwise I'd have to be  seriously upset with Pocket Books).  The storyline continues to follow the  crew after the destruction of the Excaliber. There are only two plotlines  going this time around. The first finds Selar and Burgy battling (literally  and figuratively) for the future of their son. The other features the  mother-daughter team of Robin Lefler and her mother, Morgan. Of the two,  the vacation that Robin and Morgan takes seem the more lightweight of the  two until the final fifty pages when David pulls the rug out from under the  reader (to say too much would, honestly, ruin the fun).  <br />David pays  homage to the history of Trek by bringing in old characters from the past  and actually making them useful to the story. The characters aren't just  there for shock value but actually contribute to the plot.  Especially nice  is a chance to catch up with David's vision of how Scotty might turn out,  trapped in the 24th century, many years after his time.<br />This is an  enjoyable and fun novel to read. The final 50 pages are staggering in that  they take some disparaging threads together and serve as the jumping off  point for the final leg of the trilogy in which we will hopefully find out  the fate of Captain Calhoun (I don't think for an instance he's dead) and  what really happened to the Excaliber (we're told how the ship was  destroyed here and it's truly a wonderful moment of revelation).    <br />Staggering and superb, this series only gets  better and better. And it  only makes waiting until November that much harder.	2000-09-05
US	50345944	R2YPO1ZIDJHHNH	0671785621	429687567	The Flaming Arrow (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 4)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Back on track	After the disappointing entry of Rough Trails, the New Earth series redeems itself well with an enjoyable story that is a brisk and relatively quick read.  The Enterprise is forced into a difficult circumstance yet  again as they are forced to fend off the Kauld--who want to the olivium  mine that Belle Terre has rights to.  Kirk is the only Starfleet captain in  the area and faces the task of balance defending the colony with keeping  the colonist's government happy with him and his actions.  Add to it the  Kauld have designed a weapon of devious proportions that will wipe out all  life on Belle Terre if it suceeds and you've got a great Trek novel.  The  scope of the novel is great and we get some development of not only the  crew of the Enterprise but also some of the supporting characters on Belle  Terre. And the problem Kirk faces is interesting, even if the solution  feels a bit like a cheat and a lot of technobabble.  <br />However, if you're  looking for some great summer Trek reading this is it.  And it also ends on  a cliffhanger which means that yet again we have to make the long wait to  August.	2000-07-05
US	50345944	R2BGMOAE3CLUGO	0671036009	587163257	Rough Trails (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 3)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Disappointing	Not only is Rough Trails the title of the latest entry in the New Earth series, but it pretty accurately sums up the entire book.  I'd honestly been looking forward to the book--the first two moved by at a brisk,  entertaining pace.  However, Rough Trails hits the skids quickly and early  on and is tedious at best.  <br />L.A. Graf has never been my favorite Trek  author, but the writers who use this psuedonym have surprised me in the  past, and I'd hoped they'd do it again here. Alas, it was not to be.  <br />Part of the problem is that it's hard to really care about any of these  characters beyond the Enterprise crew.  Also, part of it is that none of  them are given enough depth so that you feel compelled to keep reading the  story to see how it turns out.  <br />Another factor is that it's a bad  Western plotline.  A local government has set up an elite group of  Peacemakers who are running things and damn anyone who stands in their way.   I don't have a problem with the theme of exploring the wild frontier in a  Trek book, but I wish the authors had taken a few more chances with it  rather than giving us this rather trite and predictable storyline.<br />The  only reason to recommend this book is that there are certain events that  take place that should affect later novels.  I won't reveal the big secret  here so as not to ruin it for anyone.  But it is an interesting development  and you can see how it might affect future books.<br />So, if you're a  completist, give this one a read. If not, you can probably skip it and move  on to the next book.	2000-07-05
US	50345944	R1CQ3C0466O53P	0671042971	50403318	Belle Terre (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 2)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Nicely done	My main concern going into this book was after &quot;WagonTrain to the Stars&quot; that the next four books would stall out withmajor developments until Diane Carey came in to wrap things up in August.  The good news is that, for now, that hasn't happened. <br />&quot;Belle Terre&quot;, while considerably shorter than &quot;Wagon Train to the Stars&quot;, packs no less of a punch.  As was hinted in book one, things aren't going to be peaceful when the crew arrives at the planet--and they're not.  An imminent disaster will happen in just eight days--the destruction of a moon that will destroy the lush world the colonists have come to settle.  It's up to Kirk and company to pull another miracle out of their hats and save the day. The book works nicely because it allows the crew to fail and to work through it to come up with an answer.  It also introduces some nice supporting characters and gives the ma bit of character depth as well.  In addition, it's a nicely plotted and suspenseful book that really takes advantage of the crew working against the clock to save the day.  <br />I've got to admit I'm hooked now on New Earth.  Having devoured the first two books, I find myself anxious for the next four. It certainly makes June seem a bit longer as I wait for parts three and four.<br />My only major problem with the book is that it drops some of the interesting storylines from part one.  No mention is made of the traitor's fate nor do we get any confirmation that the Orions are still a threat.  Also, with the Enterprise and the colony in a disputed war-zone, there should have been some development there.  I'm willing to overlook these sins of omission for now, simply because we've got four more books to go and develop these.	2000-06-05
US	50345944	R2JCDL7AVEQ9XN	0671042963	50403318	Wagon Train to the Stars (Star Trek No 89, New Earth Book One of Six)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A nice start	Well, it's summer time and that can only mean one thing--the beginning of a new, multi-novel Star Trek saga, courtesy of Pocket Books.  Last year's Double Helix series was a hit-or-miss affair that dealt with events in the  TNG universe. This summer, Pocket treats us to the long-awaited classic  Trek crossover series. And first up, is Diane Carey's &quot;Wagon Train to  the Stars.&quot;  <br />All in all, I've got to say this is a good start to  the series.  What really works is that Carey plunks us down in the middle  of the story and fills in details via flashbacks and the characters  interacting.  The series takes place between the events seen in The Motion  Picture and Wrath of Khan and finds Kirk, having temporarily taken a  reduction in rank to Captain, leading a fleet of colonists to a new world  that is nine months away.  The first novel sets up the secondary characters  and establishes the mood and the scene.  It also sets into place the fact  that the planet our heroes are headed for isn't what it seems  (frustratingly enough, one of the characters knows what is going on but  refuses to tell any one or give any hints....oh well, I guess it is a  six-part series and we'll find out soon enough).  Before you know it, Kirk  is up to his ears in squabbles, disputes and egos other than his.  It's  interesting look at Kirk as he tries to deal with leading a group of people  that aren't in Starfleet and don't necessarily want or have to follow his  orders.  There's internal intrigue as well as an external threat or two  (the planet the colonists are heading for is at the center of two, ancient  warring races and the Orions aren't far behind--seeing the colonists as  potential profit in the slave trade).  Carey balances a lot of elements to  make an entertaining novel and one that sets up events well.  The stage is  set for the next five books and there's enough mysteries involved to keep  me curious as what's to come next. <br />My only fear is that we won't findout the planet's myterious secret until book six and the other four books  will be a holding pattern of sorts. Also, minor characters are being set up  to be in conflict and you can see some of Kirk's headahces that are ahead.   I only hope Carey and the rest of the authors will take some chances and  not give into a standard, cliched Trek storyline.<br />All that said, I will  say that Wagon Train to the Stars is a good start.  It's an enjoyable  summer Trek read--not too heavy, but not too light.  I'm definitely  interested to see what happens next.	2000-05-30
US	50345944	R3QLG3FUYPMLI	0553288105	229605670	The Gods Themselves	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An entertaining and interesting novel	One thing I always have to remind myself when it comes to reading Asimov is that even though I've seen some of his ideas and concepts before in other author's works, that Asimov was in many ways a pioneer in the field at the time he wrote.   The Gods Themselves is no exception to that rule.   Yes, there are elements in this novel that others have done but none of  them really as well as Asimov.  There are others here who have explained  the premise of this novel far better than I could and without giving away  little nuggets of information that could, quite possibly ruin the  narrative.  Needless to say, Asimov does well with the science and  consequences of the situation. What is lacking in the novel are characters  of much depth and interest.  Many of the players are one-dimensional and  rarely break out of that mold.  Asimov has shown he can write memorable and  entertaining characters who have some depth (Bailey and R. Daneel Olivaw  are two that spring to mind). However, here Asimov seems to fall too much  in love with the science of what he is trying to explain rather than having  interesting characters in the mix.  Which takes away from an otherwise  flawless novel.  <br />Certainly this book is recommended.  It's just not my  favorite Asimov.	2000-04-25
US	50345944	R904WZDJS8I03	0671024027	130295029	The War of the Prophets (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 2 of 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A dark chapter.	Just like the &quot;Empire Strikes Back,&quot; the middle leg of the new DS9 trilogy proves to have a bit of a dark side.  Trapped 25 years in the future with the Federation as we know it gone and the galaxy gone mad and  in a war that could destroy the universe, the crew of DS9 is forced to find  a way to put the time-lines right and head for home.  <br />It's certainly an  interesting trip and a page-turner. After part one was content to  concentrate on the character we've come to know and love, this one is far  more action oriented.  Yes, there's still some nice character stuff,  including how Nog will turn out, the fate of Weyon and even a surprise  appearence by Gul Dukat and some Voyager crew.  All-in-all, it's an  interesting &quot;what-if&quot; scenario that slowly builds up to a climax  that made it virtually impossible at times to put down.  <br />Of course,  being a trilogy, it ends on a cliffhanger--and it's quite a good one.  I am  anxious to get my hands on the next installment and see what happens  next...<br />My only problems with the book are the means the authors use to  separate the crew and then, bring them back together, which are at times  trite and cliched.  I also hesistated from giving it five stars because,  quite frankly, the Reeves-Stevens have set up so much in the first 700-odd  pages of this epic that I'm afraid the final chapter may let me down.  I  have my fingers crossed that it will turn out well.<br />That said, if you're  missing quality Trek on TV (as DS9 always was!), then pick this one up.   It's a interesting tale and definitely an enjoyable way to pass a few  hours.	2000-03-30
US	50345944	R1X11HAF4L8HO4	0671024019	991707493	The Fall of Terok Nor (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, Millennium Book 1 of 3)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An interesting start	I've read a lot of Star Trek novels over the years and while a great many of them have been enjoyable, there's been one trend, of late, that has started to worry me.  Namely that a lot of good ideas for one, longer than  average Trek novel are being stretched out to make series, so that readers  are forced to purchase three or four books instead of one.  <br />Leave it to  DS9 to defy the odds and buck the trend.  This epic length storyline is  just that--epic. And you certainly can't complain about the overall size of  the books as the first two are longer than the last DS9 trilogy combined!   <br />But what really works is the story and how well it appears be setting up  events for a three book run.  It's placed firmly in DS9's sixth season and  brings in a lot of players.  There are appearances by Kai Winn, Garak and  even Gul Dukat as well as a flashback to the time before Starfleet came to  DS9.  It's fascinating becasue the Reeves-Stevens are given time to set up  events and give us some character development along the way, which is  always appreciated.  The major events involve a new series of Orbs that are  rumored to open a new wormhole and Quark's gaining possession of one to  sell.  As always, there's a murder mystery, but it actually ties in well to  the plot to set up events.  The novels moves at a crisp pace and the  characters are, generally, spot on.   It's nice to see Jake get some  development, especially as he virtually disappeared in the late goings of  season seven...<br />It will be interested to see if this momentum can keep  going over the next books in the series. If it does, this set may go down  as one of the best  Trek novel series of all time.	2000-03-17
