US	50354756	R2T9R0GJ9W3Y7M	0140245642	444232160	War and Peace in the Middle East: A Concise History, Revised and Updated	Books	5	29	36	N	N	A great introduction to the history of the Middle East	To an outside observer the Middle East seems to be a very irrational region that is occupied with conflicts of unexplainable driving forces. To people involved in these conflicts, however, the whole world's attitude towards them seems to be either prejudiced or odd to say the least. Thus, it is a rare opportunity to run into anyone who is able to dig out the factors that influence the region and explain them rationally, which is why reading this book would prove to be a very enriching and valuable experience.<br />It is hard to imagine any person capable of undertaking this endeavor better than Avi Shlaim, an Oxford professor of international relations. The fact that Mr. Shlaim was born in Baghdad, grew up in Israel, and graduated from London is evident of the magnitude of his viewpoint and his ability to grasp the big picture.<br />In this short book (146 pages) the author introduces the post-Ottoman Middle East, a decaying region that fell prey to the colonial western powers subsequent to World War I. And while one might suspect that this introduction is too far back in history and has little relevance to the Middle East of today, Mr. Shlaim argues to the contrary. You can trace, asserts the author, almost all of the current conflicts in the Middle East to the Sykes-Picot Agreement in 1916 and the Balfour Declaration in 1917. These historical milestones were designed by the colonial powers to disengage from their colonies in the Middle East, but they were devised without any concern for the political and cultural landscape of the region. In Mr. Shlaim's words, &quot;the postwar order imposed by Britain and the Allies created a belt of turmoil and instability stretching from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf. The destruction of the Ottoman empire was not followed by a new order but a new disorder.&quot;<br />Analysis of regional history beyond that point is divided among two opinions. The first being the conventional view of external forces playing the decisivepart in the political evolution of the contemporary Middle East, while the second believes that the dominant feature was the manipulation of the international powers by regional powers. The author takes a stand between these views, believing that regional powers did enjoy more leverage in dealing with outside powers than is generally recognized while being heavily influenced by the external powers. Mr. Shlaim divide external involvement into four phases: the Ottoman, the European, the superpower, and the American.<br />Avi examines every phase and not only explains the factors that created the history we know (or would come to know) but also investigates the motives behind every action and every policy. The reader is left with a satisfyingly clear and coherent picture of the Middle East right to the end of the 20th century, and by the conclusion of the book you will be able to comprehend the politics of the Middle East onward.<br />The only drawback is the fact that the book ends before the events of September 11 and the invasion (or liberation) of Iraq. These two events are earthshaking and are in effect turning points for the Middle East. However, the factors laid out by Avi in this book are the ones the brought about those two events, which is telling of the accuracy of Mr. Shlaim's analysis and insight.<br />Another great feature of this book is its lack of political-correctness. The author will not shy away from statements such as blaming &quot;Reagan's idleness, intellectual mediocrity, and lax leadership&quot; for the incoherent US policy towards the Middle East during his presidency, or from stating &quot;what a closed, dark place&quot; Syria still was when other regional leaderships (including the Palestinian) demonstrated slight improvement in mindset. These accusations are not simple emotional outcries, for they are the culminations of thorough analysis and rational and impartial observation. The author does cast his blame fairly, in my humble opinion, and is not prejudiced by his religion or his ethnicity, which might discomfort some bigoted readers.<br />In conclusion, this is a book very suitable for any reader interested in the Middle East, even if slightly given how short it is. The reader is not required to have any background information about the region as the book provides a proper introduction accompanied with several political maps of different eras.<br />This book is definitely a must-buy and a great read.	2004-02-27
US	50354756	R85S3OS47FUQ2	0679758941	861058090	Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A great read in history and human destiny	Does humanity have a purpose? A difficult question that the author doesn't attempt to answer in this book. However, he undertakes another question that, if answered, could make answering the first question a little less difficult. Robert Wright, author of &quot;The Moral Animal&quot;, asserts that civilization is inevitable and that cultural and biological evolutions are driven toward complexity. In other words, cultural evolution is moving forward by a force and not here only as a result of a long string of serendipitous shots of good fortune, although luck does help. A lot.<br />Mr. Wright identifies this force as what he calls Nonzero-sumness. Nonzero-sum is the name given in Game Theory to the interaction that leaves every party involved in a more favorable state than (or, at least, similar to) its state prior to the interaction, or what is informally known as a win-win situation. That is in contrast to zero-sum interactions where parties gain through the loss of others. A soccer match is a typical zero-sum interaction for the playing teams since the triumph of one means the loss of the other. However, the same game is a nonzero-sum interaction for the players of a team since a goal scored by a player is a goal for all players in the team.<br />The author says that nonzero-sumness is embedded in nature and that all forms of life and social structures are rewarded if they tap into its nonzero-sumness potential. Just as well, structures or forms that do not make use of this potential are taken over by other structures or forms that do. In addition, if nonzero-sumness is tapped into in one way, possibilities for further nonzero-sumness multiply exponentially. Complex civilization, in other words, is inevitable. Even intelligence is inevitable, albeit not necessarily in a human form.<br />This is a strong claim, but it doesn't go unsubstantiated. Mr. Wright spends the first and bigger part of the book analyzing history from the first appearance of hunter-gatherer societies to our day and age. He takes head-on many mysteries such as the reason why the industrial revolution appeared in Europe and nowhere else any earlier, or why did the Chinese civilization regress from complexity and expansion to isolation and decay in the fourth and fifth centuries A.D.<br />The first common notion that he refutes is the claim that agriculture was invented as a result of a dry up of abundant natural resources available to hunter-gatherer societies. He refutes this by proving that agriculture was invented several times throughout history, and was not necessarily an invention to elude fresh hardships. He looks thoroughly into several civilizations that started independently from scratch and found its way to complexity driven by the force of exploiting nonzero-sumness.<br />He also explains how some major zero-sum activities, such as wars and commercial competition, seem to drive civilization further when in fact they are either mere failed attempts or serve a wider nonzero-sum purpose.<br />Sounds boring? It's probably my review that is boring because the book is extremely entertaining and the arguments will leave you with a lot of thoughts to say the least. The depth of Mr. Wrights' knowledge in history is manifest throughout the book and serves his arguments extremely well.<br />In the second part the author attempts to prove that not only cultural evolution is driven by nonzero-sumness, but biological evolution as well. And although science doesn't seem to extend solid confirmation of Mr. Wright's arguments, it doesn't prove it erroneous either. He will extend many examples that are explained perfectly by his theory.<br />Things, however, begin to get a bit too controversial for my taste in the third part. Here the author pushes the notion of nonzero-sumness a bit too far. Too far to the extent of actually saying that god is nonzero-sumness, although equivocally. He also theorizes that the process of evolution (biological and cultural that is) is in fact conscious. Based on one philosophical definition of consciousness as the ability of some kind of information processing, he argues that by processing the feedback of genetic mutation and social development; evolution is self-conscious. Finally, I did not find myself agreeing with his attempt to conform the force of life to the second law of thermodynamics of entropy.<br />Nevertheless, this does not subtract value from the book overall but indeed adds to it. Even those claims that I did not find myself in agreement with left me with a lot to think about and helped me reshape many of my ideas and notions. And in the end, the author contemplates lightly the question that started this review, although he doesn't claim to have the answer. But as I said, the question seems a little more accessible in the light of the information provided by this book.<br />Another thing that I liked about this book is its accessibility. The layman reader will not have to worry about unfamiliar terms because everything is explained rather simply and difficult concepts are properly introduced into the discussion.<br />In conclusion, I think that this is a very good book to read if you're interested in humanity or history as it will offer the reader a lot to learn in both fields.	2004-02-11
US	50354756	RBSWM7EYDB37P	0739303104	997649583	A Short History of Nearly Everything	Books	4	11	14	N	N	A not-so-short history of science	To begin with, this is not really a history book, nor is it a science book. A more accurate description of it would say that it's a history of science book. The author, Bill Bryson, an extensive traveler famous for his keen observation and engaging storytelling, attempts to take a journey through the history of the universe but ends up telling the story of how our scientists came to theorize about this history.<br />Science can be a very boring subject, and is manifestly so for Bill. To help himself go through it all he amuses himself with numerous anecdotes and interesting trivia about the scientists involved. He has a talent for digging up the interesting stories behind important discoveries and popular theories of old times and of today. He's always on the lookout for fascinating facts and astonishing numbers even if they had little significance for the whole body of scientific knowledge or if they featured any practicality at all.<br />He starts the book by telling what we know about the beginning of the universe itself. The problem he stumbles upon, however, is that all we have are theories and very few, if any, facts. To maintain credibility, Bill explains how we came to conceive those theories. This book is a tribute to all the scientists forgotten by the public and especially those that are not even credited with their own achievements. He tells not only about the scientists' work, but he paints you profiles about their characters and recounts many of their entertaining and sometimes surprising anecdotes. Bill's style is very exciting and can make even the most boring stories seem interesting.<br />After describing the universe and how scientists arrived at what they know about how it became, Bill lands on Earth. Once again he talks about the features of our planet and how we came to learn about them. I found this chapter to be difficult to go through since it mainly chronicled the emergence and development of geology, one of the sciences that least interests me. Unsurprisingly, the lives of geologists aren't that interesting either.<br />Unfortunately, the book seems to lose coherence at this point. Once here you'll get the feeling that the author is overwhelmed with information and is trying to absorb it all at once. Just as we begin talking about Einstein's relativity we find ourselves discussing how we came to know about the Dinosaurs and their extinction. And while we're learning how to date paleontological findings we suddenly delve into a subatomic venture to encounter the quarks. And only after reaching all the way down to the core of the Earth and up to the highest point of the Earth's thermosphere that coherence is restored. But until then, disorientation was my prevailing sentiment.<br />The fourth part looks at life itself and how we think it began. We learn about how Darwin envisioned the evolution theory and how the world reacted to it. We find out what enhancements were introduced to it and what picture it depicts about life. Many questions are pondered such as how is life so perseverant and fragile all together, and what various hurdles it had to overcome to reach you and me.<br />This is a very enjoyable part not only because Bill seems to get over his fascination with the scientists and focus instead on the science itself, but because the story is told coherently and contemplatively. This part definitely makes up for the lousy reading that precedes it. Its only flaw is that it ends.<br />The book concludes on a reflective note. Bill cogitates about where do humans stand in the midst of all this. What is our role in this cosmological game? What do we mean to life itself? He ends the book by leaving you puzzled by the conundrum that although we might be the only beings able to observe life, yet our own ignorance and greed could very well be the main reason behind life's annihilation. We're not good for the job, nevertheless we might be all there is.<br />So in summary, this is not a book that will makeyou a scientists. After going through the hundreds of names and stories, all the unpronounceable terminologies and the expired theories, I assume that I'll hardly remember 20% of it all. So take this book for what it's worth. It's very entertaining all while being to some extent educating. If you're looking for a science reference or a more science-oriented history book, however, then this is not the book for you.<br />Also, if you are a fan of audio books then I highly recommend the abridged audio edition of this book . It is available on 4 tapes and the book is narrated by the author himself. It is informally divided into 5 minutes sections, which makes them very convenient to listen to in the car.	2004-01-04
US	50354756	R25NU7MFMYKCZW	0764551531	543620360	Philosophy For Dummies	Books	1	41	57	N	N	Tom Morris' Religious Philosophy for dummies	Before considering whether to buy this book or not you need to learn something about its title. It's completely wrong. It should've been called \\"Tom Morris' Religious Philosophy for dummies.\\"<br />This is indeed not an introduction to philosophy book for two simple reasons. The first is that it hardly covers any areas of philosophy other than the religious aspect. For example, superficial mentions of social philosophy are scattered across a couple of chapters, hardly any serious discussion of logic can be found anywhere, and not even the slightest footnote was dedicated to political philosophy at all. One look at the book's table of contents should demonstrate that to you.<br />The second reason this is not an introduction to philosophy book is that Tom Morris is a heavily biased author to the extent that clearly makes this book a prejudiced study in religious philosophy. Plus, the author devotes long chapters to discussions of some of his own ideas that has nothing to do with mainstream philosophy, which is why I think the title should explain that this is a book about Tom Morris' philosophy.<br />The book's first part is typical of the \\"For Dummies\\" series in its humorous layman's definition of philosophy and its initial discussion of the applications of philosophy in real life. The second part jumps directly into the most daring and basic issue of philosophy, which is skepticism. The author discusses how skepticism attacks our basic beliefs about the notion of evidence and the whole personal experience with its absolute reliance on memory, testimony, and senses. Then he suggests a solution to live with skepticism without annihilating the whole body of human knowledge. He also explains why relativism is popular among students of Philosophy 101 even though it's evidently self-defeating.<br />Up to this point the book was up to par as per my expectations and my experience with several books about the history of philosophy. The part about skepticism is very good andif you are planning to buy the book and read up to there only then that would be fine. If you decide to carry on, however, like I did then you'll be amazed at how fast the quality of the discussions deteriorates as you go along.<br />The author begins a discussion of what \\"good\\" is and the meaning of happiness according to philosophical studies. Ethical philosophy and the study of morals are deep subjects and the majority of philosophers dedicated great portions of their works to the study of ethics. This is why it was very disappointing to realize that the author limited his discussion to a very narrow perspective of linguistic philosophy and didn't even talk about popular theories for the sources of moral code such as utilitarianism and objectivism. In addition, his brief remark about the religious sources of moral code turned on bias-warning lights in my head, although his bias doesn't get clearly manifest yet at that point.<br />Subsequently, quality takes a nosedive as the author takes on complex and controversial topics such as the free will, materialism versus dualism, the existence of god, and the meaning of life.<br />Mr. Morris' bias in these discussions is striking. But you can't expect anyone to be completely unbiased, one might argue. I agree to that, and I have my own biases in these discussions just like everybody else. What disturbed me though is the fact that Mr. Morris' bias is demeaning to the intelligence of the reader at best and is a betrayal at worst. As a rule of thumb, Tom will commence the discussion with the views that he disagrees with. I was able to come up with two explanations only to excuse the superficiality of the arguments Tom extends in favor of those views, and both are disappointing since you can either conclude that Tom does not understand those views appropriately, or that he does not wish to burden himself with harder arguments to refute. Sometimes you can even sense a tone of ridicule and belittling in the author's tone as he extends positions not in line with his beliefs. Needless to say, it's not too hard to prove your point when you make the other viewpoint seem so shallow and silly.<br />The only plausible argument he extends in favor of an idea that he opposes is the scientific argument for materialism. He laid the grounds for that point rather fairly even though his tone was demonstrative of his disagreement. I was looking forward to see how he'll come back at such a strong argument only to be disappointed (I got used to that by then) by arguments such as asserting that this is how he feels about it although he can't explain it or that evidence is not necessary since it is common knowledge!<br />Surprised? Don't be. Once you read stories about the author's unbelievable psychic abilities and the alleged ability of some of his relatives and acquaintances to see vividly and consistently into the future or to communicate with dead people you'll realize what kind of a person wrote this book. Be also prepared for boring lengthy anecdotes that hardly have any connection to the topics being discussed.<br />You finish the book with the feeling that you have been dragged unsuspectingly into a church or a missionary base and was ordered to suspend reason and take whatever you are being taught. In fact, I felt a little irritated by the author's attitude.<br />I realize that I might have sounded prejudiced myself in this review, but in my defense I have nothing to be prejudiced about. I do not have firm opinions (yet) about the controversies in philosophy as I'm still learning about all viewpoints out there. I was hoping that this book would teach me more about mainstream ideas in philosophy. Instead, it taught me about the religious philosophy of Tom Morris. A person, based on the character and the mind that the book reveals, I do not expect to learn much from.	2003-11-30
US	50354756	R3OZQ192W3SX13	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Suprisingly intelligent and watertight, but still very funny	Before buying this book I kept hearing and reading about reviewers saying that this book is fun to read for both, liberals as well as conservatives. Upon finishing this book I can tell you, it is extremely difficult to imagine a sincere conservative even stomaching the first 100 pages of this book.<br />The reason is simple. Al Franken, a comedian and a liberal advocate, is assigned a team of 14 Harvard students with a mission to write a book that will counter the recent surge of attacks by the conservative right against the US liberals. Why a comedian, you might wonder? Well, because the charges they will come up with are extremely aggressive, and only when presented with a satirical sense of humor can they be toned down a bit for the average non-biased reader.<br />The main charge is right there on the cover. US conservative icons are liars. Al acknowledges the direness of this charge when he says that &quot;lying is a serious matter. And calling the President of the United States a liar is not something I say with any relish or self-satisfaction. I wish with all my heart that our president wasn't a liar, or if he were, that he was more like President Clinton. Bush lies about important things. Like the economy, his tax cuts, education, our reasons for going to war, and drunk driving.&quot; He also accuses others of lying such as Bill O'Reilly, Ann Coulter, and Rush Limbaugh among other conservative celebrities.<br />And as serious as these accusations are, so are the facts and the arguments Al extends in support of these claims. With the help of a meticulous research team, Al reveals shocking and horrifying lies that some conservatives have been shamelessly voicing to the public. Some of these lies could be blamed on ignorance and insufficient research, but others cannot be attributed to anything but utter evilness and the desire to hide the truth.<br />Al begins the book by bashing Ann Coulter, the author of &quot;Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism.&quot; Not only does Mr. Franken reveal so many shortcomings in the methodology used by Ann to research information about the liberal media (such as improper usage of the LexisNexis search engine,) but he also reveals inexcusable out-of-context quotations that were presented with obvious ill intentions. That, in addition to other outright lies mentioned in her book as well.<br />Then he takes on Bernard Goldberg, the author of &quot;Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distorts the News.&quot; And again, he reveals a malicious misquoting approach similar to that of his fellow conservative Ms. Coulter. And don't think that these takes on misquotations are mere cheap-shots taken at side issues of these books. These misquotations are central to the basic premise of the arguments by the conservative authors, and Al presents you the original full text, the context it was said in, and then the mutilated presentation by the author. By finishing those chapters you'd laugh (or cry) every time you see one of those books on display.<br />Subsequently, Al wages a deadly assault on FOX along with its star Bill O'Reilly. I'm surprised that anyone can go through that chapter and not end up with a strong feeling of despise for the O'Reilly man. Al also takes on Hannity and Colmes as well.<br />After that, Al goes on a campaign to repeal all the lies that the conservative propaganda machine has been spreading for several years. Al covers various subjects such as the 2000 elections, the war on terrorism, the tone of politics in Washington, and the Paul Wellstone memorial. Al also doesn't forget to discuss some pillars of the conservative school of thought, such as abstinence for birth-control, conservatives stand on racism and feminism, supply-side economics, and the sissiness of the Democrats. Finally, he briefly discusses his own uncharacteristic support of the Iraqi preemption war.<br />The watertight logic and the hard evidence that Al extends in this book are astonishingly unexpected from a comedian interested in politics such as Al Franken. I was expecting to get some laughs at the conservative right only to be amazed by the strong and sometimes infallible arguments that Al throws in the face of conservatives.<br />But make no mistake about it, the book is more hysterical than all of Al's previous work. If you have seen Al on TV before you'll know that his comedy is not based on observations and funny comments only. Al is the kind of guy who would engage himself in confrontations (sometimes under dangerous circumstances) to present you a real-life funny story. Many of these stories are presented in this book along with a mini-novel about what would Bush's team have done have they didn't dodge the service in Vietnam, a comic titled &quot;The Gospel of Supply Side Jesus&quot; (which was extremely funny,) and a no-child-left-behind standard test.<br />Also, in credit for Al's work, none of those accused by him as liars was able to defend himself against this serious accusation. In addition to the public confrontations where Al left his opponents stumped and speechless, FOX and O'Reilly couldn't find any vulnerabilities in the book to sue against except for its title. And no, not the &quot;Liars&quot; part, but the &quot;Fair and Balanced Look at the Right&quot; part claiming that it's a patented slogan of the O'Reilly Factor show. This alone is telling of to what extent the conservatives are defenseless against being called liars. They lost even that case, by the way.<br />In conclusion, if you're sick of conservatives waving Coulter's books or Goldberg's and would want to stump them cold silent, then read this book. If you want to learn more about how easy it is to lie in public without being caught, then read this book. If you're looking for great humor, then read this book. If you're a conservative with high blood-pressure, then I recommend that you do not read this book. You will not find it funny.	2003-11-04
US	50354756	R2GRVSJJYRAD70	0671792245	54528883	Evolution of Consciousness: The Origins of the Way We Think	Books	4	79	80	N	N	Great source for understanding the consciousness	I came across this book as I was searching for answers to the many questions concerning the consciousness of human beings and the enigmatic process of intelligent thinking. Subsequently, I was attracted to this book by the title and by the credentials of the author, who is a neuropsychiatric researcher and is the president of the Institute for the Study of Human Knowledge and a professor at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco and at Stanford University. The author has done extensive research on the human brain and is the author of twenty books concerning the human brain. It wasn't difficult to realize that if anyone is to speak about the human consciousness, Dr. Ornstein is the one.<br />The book begins by shocking the foundations of your knowledge of the human brain. The first thing the author tells you is that \\"The mind is a squadron of simpletons. It is not unified, it is not rational, it is not well designed - or designed at all.\\" And as you may have noticed by now, you must be a fan of the Evolution theory to even carry on after this sentence as the first third of the book discusses the steps that our ancestors had to evolve through for us to end up with the conscious mind. Dr. Ornstein discusses the most recent biological and paleontological findings that can help us reconstruct the history of the evolution of the human brain. Then, he takes a shot at answering one of the famous dilemmas of the human evolution theory that questions the reasons behind the evolution of the human brain. Why did a brain capable of landing humans on the moon, splitting the atom, painting the Mona Lisa, writing Hamlet, and composing Don Giovanni evolve at a time when human beings were barely working with stone tools? What brought about the ballooning of a Homo habilis' brain measuring 600-750 cubic centimeters to the Homo erectus' brain measuring  775-1,225 cc? The author extends a surprising but logical argument in this case.<br />Dr. Ornstein proceeds to explain that the environment that shaped and influenced the evolution of our brains ceased to exist only very recently in evolutionary terms. Our brains are equipped to react to events and dynamics that are completely gone, and our brains were not given sufficient time to physically evolve to fit the environments that our own advancements brought about.<br />The author carries on in his campaign to render more common notions erroneous by explaining that the conscious mind is much weaker than what is publicly thought to be. He demonstrates how the unconscious mind influences our supposedly rational and logical thinking and even our free will. He does that while describing the mechanics of thinking, dreaming, and memorization. I learned many astonishing facts about the way our minds work. I learned how our unconsciousness gets wired up throughout our earliest years and how it continues to affect us for the rest of our lives.<br />After that, the author begins to define what is the \\"Self\\" and how it can be identified. This is a very exciting yet confusing part of the book as the author argues that there are many selves existing within us. He provides evidence proving that not one \\"I\\" exists within us, but many. Each \\"I\\" has its own priorities and skills and is brought into action by the subconscious when the situation is deemed to require that specific \\"I.\\" He explains how the working of those minds-in-one affect our lives and how they are being taken advantage of by advertising agencies and politicians to name a few.<br />The last part of the book discusses the author's view of the future of humanity. He predicts a grim destiny based on the limitations of the human brain to think on a global scale when human activities began to have numerous global effects. The brain is equipped to work in a small environment and never had to deal with events and concerns that affect the world as a whole. He explains how our means of raising children and of education are enforcing these limitations upon our minds. But the author doesn't leave the picture at that. He suggests solutions as to how help the mind evolve consciously to fit our rapidly changing environment. He recommends methods to strengthen our conscious minds and to make us more aware of the workings of our unconscious minds. He concludes the book by saying that \\"Undertaking conscious evolution, with an understanding of the complexity of our myriad minds within, may be easier, closer at hand, and more liberating than we might normally think.\\"<br />The book will definitely take you through a fascinating journey into the human brain and its origins. The author's writing style is very accessible to non-professional readers while maintaining a high level of sophistication. You can be assured that you will stumble across many new ideas that will raise your eyebrows in astonishment  and amazement. The book contains many drawings to help explain (and sometimes to prove) the author's arguments, though I found some drawings to be too silly and too obvious to be included.<br />However, you will come across many grammatical and spelling mistakes that might shake your faith a bit in the overall quality of the book as it did to mine.<br />In summary, this books addresses many questions about what consciousness is, how it affects our lives, and how can we advance it even further. If you find this topic to be interesting then this book is a must read.e limitations upon our minds. But the author doesn't leave the picture at that. He suggests solutions as to how help the mind evolve consciously to fit our rapidly changing environment. He recommends methods to strengthen our conscious minds and to make us more aware of the workings of our unconscious minds. He concludes the book by saying that \\"Undertaking conscious evolution, with an understanding of the complexity of our myriad minds within, may be easier, closer at hand, and more liberating than we might normally think.\\"<br />The book will definitely take you through a fascinating journey into the human brain and its origins. The author's writing style is very accessible to non-professional readers while maintaining a high level of sophistication. You can be assured that you will stumble across many new ideas that will raise your eyebrows in astonishment  and amazement. The book contains many drawings to help explain (and sometimes to prove) the author's arguments, though I found some drawings to be too silly and too obvious to be included.<br />However, you will come across many grammatical and spelling mistakes that might shake your faith a bit in the overall quality of the book as it did to mine.<br />In summary, this books addresses many questions about what consciousness is, how it affects our lives, and how can we advance it even further. If you find this topic to be interesting then this book is a must read.	2003-07-23
US	50354756	R1HVMJAR9LAFUR	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	60	71	N	N	A must-read in globalization and international finance	As a consequence of the great advances mankind achieved in the fields of communication and travel; globalization was not a choice anymore as much as an actual reality. It was not a question of whether to accept globalization or not, but rather a question of how to channel its forces to serve the benefits of all those that are involved. Global institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO had to be brought into existence to regulate the process of globalization. Each institute was given a main directive to pursue, and that for the IMF was the difficult task of ensuring global economic stability.<br />Unfortunately, one does not have to be an economist to realize that the IMF failed miserably in its mission. The East Asian crisis of the late 1990's, the so-far failing conversion of Russia from communism to capitalism, and more recently, the Argentina crisis are exactly what the IMF should have prevented or, at least, significantly minimized.<br />However, The author tells us in this book that these failures did not happen in despite of the IMF, but , shockingly, because of the IMF. And in the cases that the IMF was not the cause of the failure, it caused that failure to bloat and metastasize.<br />What makes this book more remarkable is that the author, Joseph E. Stiglitz, is not someone to take lightly, but a Nobel prize co-winner in economics who served on the Council of Economic Advisers under president Bill Clinton and later became the chief economist and senior vice president at the World Bank.<br />Stiglitz begins the book by explaining the specific roles of the global institutions and especially the role of the IMF. From there he describes how many developing (and few developed) nations were let down by the promises of globalization and its institutions. But, he argues, these failures are not caused by the process of globalization itself, but are products of the policies of the IMF.<br />You would wonder though, how could the IMF with its access toprofound expertise and its possession of vast wealth fail so badly in its job. Stiglitz explains that the problem with the IMF is not caused by poor knowledge or lack of funds. The problem is a fundamental one, which is caused by the fact that the IMF is not accountable to the people that are directly affected by its policies, bur rather to the US treasury who in turn is under immense pressure from the US investors. This unfair accountability lead the IMF to unconsciously replace economic science by an ideology that primarily served the interests of the US investors. This ideology is all about markets liberalization, which became an end to the IMF rather than a mean to accomplish economic stability. This change of goal, accompanied with high levels of secrecy, was the cause behind the IMF's failure.<br />After explaining this the author delves into the cases of the Asian crisis and the failed Russian transformation. He tells in painstaking details how these crises evolved and what role the IMF played at every stage. He gives interesting insights and intelligent suggestions to more sensible alternatives that the affected countries could have pursued. He also gives account of other countries that did not comply with IMF policies and succeeded because of that. Stiglitz is a very intelligent and knowledgeable economist, so you can be assured that you will have access to invaluable economic analysis of those affairs. His writing style is wonderful as well, so you don't have to worry about incoherence or experiencing boredom going through the book.<br />Finally, he provides more analysis into what causes the IMF to fail the way it does and extends suggestions to overcome its shortcomings and those of other global institutions as well.<br />This book is a treasure of economic science and analysis, and of economic history as well. It received a great amount of criticism mainly because it accused many influential bodies and persons of misplacing their priorities. This is a dangerous accusation since it makes the accused blamable for disasters that have affected billions of people and still do until this day.<br />In my opinion, the fact that Stiglitz was discharged from the World Bank after voicing his views in a World Bank report only proves his integrity and his genius. Some critics accused him of bitterness and are saying that it is the cause of him writing this book. But even if so, his bitterness is over a good cause and he has the knowledge and the experience to defend it better than anyone else.<br />This is a very valuable and interesting book. If you are interested in globalization and international finance then this is definitely a must-read.	2003-06-20
US	50354756	RDMP45RYIRYSB	0671043218	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	4	1234	1288	N	N	Read but with caution	When I was 12 years old my best friend gave me a copy of this book and told me that I might find it interesting. He could not have been more right, for I delved deep into the book and I finished it in a matter of 2 weeks (to me it was a record to finish a book so quickly at that age!) I found the book to be very informative and entertaining at the same time. The author, Mr. Dale Carnegie, will not introduce a principle or a notion without supporting it with at least one real life story where the principle introduced was proven effective. After that point I noticed a great, almost immediate, effect on my behavior as I was growing up. I noticed that I have become a very good negotiator with my parents and teachers, more popular at school, and I even began to understand people much better than I used to prior to reading the book. I grew up believing that this book was one of the greatest factors involved in shaping my character.<br />Recently though, I noticed some growing criticism of the book and its teaching, and I thought that this would be a good time for me to refresh what I learned from the book and assess its quality based on the experience I've gained since the first time I read the book. So I bought the unabridged audiotapes of the book and listened to it whenever I was in the car.<br />Mr. Carnegie said somewhere in the book that if one thing you learn from the book, which is the ability to understand the different views of other people in different situations, then that would be enough. And I agree wholeheartedly.<br />My judgment is that this book will indeed teach you how to understand the motives and the different forces playing in the different people you meet. Humans all across the globe share basic needs and characteristics that play a major role in forming their attitudes and decisions. Understanding those factors and satisfying them will be the most effective method of influence you'll ever need.<br />Mr. Carnegie begins the book with the foundations of developing this skill of understanding others. He extends three principles that if applied will help you identify what other people want and how you can satisfy them. After that he introduces six ways to make people like you. These methods hover around the same three principles mentioned in the beginning of the book. After that the author discusses in two parts methods and principles that help you influence people to your way of thinking.<br />All of this seems interesting but why are people criticizing this book, you wonder. The first issue with this book is the title. It says &quot;How to win friends and influence people.&quot; I would have called it &quot;How to make people like you and influence their behavior.&quot; The methods Dale introduces aren't for winning friends. You don't win friends by avoiding arguments and by projecting enthusiasm that is not honest. You'll only have them like you, but they are not won as friends, yet at least. Honesty is absent in Carnegie's teachings, and sometimes even unadvised! In one story he tells of a manager of a singer who would lie to the singer just to get him on stage!<br />Another observation I had on the book was the relevance of some of the stories to the principle being introduced. Some of those principles would not have worked in the stories he mentioned have the circumstances been even little different! Yet Dale would acclaim the introduced principle as the reason that the story reached the happy ending it did. But, to the benefit of the author, this happened only a few times overall and it doesn't degrade the whole quality of the book.<br />Nevertheless, the lack of emphasis on honesty is a serious issue. This has caused many reviewers to warn readers from reading this book. But here is where I disagree.<br />You'll need to read this book to learn the methods, not just to be able to understand other people, but also to be ready when others are applying them to influence you. I'll have to agree that some of these methods are extremely powerful especially if the receiver isn't ready for them. Reading this book will make you resilient to the weapons of many unwanted salesmen and negotiators.<br />My advice is to read but with caution. Learn the methods but always remember that honesty should always be present when these methods are being applied.hese methods are extremely powerful especially if the receiver isn't ready for them. Reading this book will make you resilient to the weapons of many unwanted salesmen and negotiators.<br />My advice is to read but with caution. Learn the methods but always remember that honesty should always be present when these methods are being applied.	2002-08-17
US	50354756	R3DSGN4C0JEHW1	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Valuable if you're interested in 3rd world countries	Why Capitalism failed everywhere but succeeded in the West? This is a question that haunts many politicians and economists in 3rd world countries and in the West as well. Eventually the mystery became a quarrel between the two worlds, having the third claiming that Capitalism is just a hoax for the West to tap into their trifling fortunes, and the first claiming that 3rd world countries are failing to implement Capitalism efficiently.<br />The author of this book, Hernando De Soto, is siding with the second team in this dispute. And for that purpose he extends a very strong argument, which is that 3rd world countries failed to utilize the most basic element of Capitalism. And that would be Capital itself!<br />De Soto defines what he calls &quot;Dead Capital&quot; as property and real estate that is not fungible and can serve only in its most basic usage. Capital goes dead when the government fails to establish a real estate system that is accessible to the common public and is appropriate to the people and their property. What De Soto found after years of research and study is that in most developing and ex-communist countries the real estate systems are troublesome, drastically complicated, and out of touch with the real world. These systems nurtured a burgeoning extralegal style of living, where capital and businesses are not adherent to the legal systems of those countries. Instead, they work based on laws and regulations the people developed themselves among their social circles.<br />De Soto extends many shocking statistical information proving that 3rd world countries posses vast amounts of dead capital in their extralegal sectors. The author describes this capital as dead because property in extralegal sectors cannot serve as collateral for loans, are not fungible, and their transactions are not protected by the law. De Soto believes that the poor people living in extralegal sectors of 3rd world countries are the real entrepreneurs of their countries. They are very innovative in creating jobs and forming their own systems of protecting assets and their transactions. The author says that the biggest mistake of their governments is that they are trying to enforce the legal system on them when they should adopt their systems instead.<br />But how come the West never encountered this problem, you wonder. Wrong, the author tells you. The West did go through this and had to sort out many extralegal property and real estate into the legal system. But the West didn't enforce the law on extralegal property, instead they adopted the various extralegal systems and integrated them into the law. The author extends a thorough research in the U.S. history to explain in detail what created the problem of extralegal property and how the Americans overcame it.<br />One thing you'll notice if you read the book to that point is that the book is too long for its topic. And even though it's little less than 300 pages, but by page 150 I felt that the author had said everything he wanted to say. I believe that once an author begins to say &quot;like I said in chapter x&quot; numerous times he should stop immediately.<br />However this is a valuable book indeed and I learned a lot of lessons from it. De Soto is a man who will not make a claim without being able to back it with intensive and thorough research and study. His arguments are sound and make a great deal of sense.<br />If you're interested in the economies of 3rd world and ex-communist countries then I recommend buying this book. This book might fail to appeal you otherwise.	2002-07-12
US	50354756	R2K5QI0HWBS5FJ	155977505X	603359175	The Fine Art of Small Talk: How to Start a Conversation, Keep It Going, Build Rapport--And Leave a Positive Impression	Books	2	199	257	N	N	Bad advice and obvious good advice	Upon finishing this book I couldn't resist being disappointed at what the book had just delivered. It's possible that it was I who had unreasonably high expectations of what the book should've taught me, but I doubt it.<br />The author, Mrs. Debra Fine, is supposedly a super conversationalist (she calls herself that!) who promises to teach you how to become a super conversationalist yourself. She claims that she was one of those boring engineering specialists who aren't capable of talking about anything that they haven't been trained on in school or college. She used to be shy, afraid, and hesitant during conventions and hospitality receptions. So how did she change?<br />In the beginning she tells you that there are many old tapes playing in your head that you should get rid of, which include the popular sayings \\"Don't talk to strangers\\" and \\"Silence is gold.\\" Instead, she provides you with new tapes to play that encourage talking to strangers and taking initiative in conversations.<br />After that she talks about the benefits of getting over your shyness and hesitation and talking to strangers without fear. Afterwards, she provides you with tips and guidelines on what to say and what not to say during small talk conversations. Things not to say such as those questions that will result in a dead-end answer (i.e. How was your weekend, how's the family doing... etc.) and things to say such as proper self-introduction. Then she carries on by providing tips about proper and improper body language gestures during small talks. And finally, she tells us about some conversation killers that we should avoid at all costs.<br />So you're wondering by now, all of the above seems to be quite interesting. What made me not enjoy the book and learn valuable skills from it? My answer is that I didn't like the book for two reasons.<br />The first reason is that even though I might not be a \\"super conversationalist\\" but I can tell when I'm given bad advice! Why bad advice, you wonder? Well, what Mrs. Fine keeps telling you on and on is to approach strangers with questions that will make them talk, not questions that will make then answer! She keeps going on and on about how to ask the proper questions and how to acquire \\"free' information about the person you're talking to so that you'll be able to ask even more questions! She also advises you that you shouldn't be just a silent listener, because you should be an active listener. Thus, participate in the discussion by asking questions such as \\"How did that affect you\\" or \\"what did you learn from all that.\\"<br />Notice anything wrong so far?<br />She wants you to be one of those annoying people you meet at parties who keep on asking you questions and questions and questions and questions until you feel that you want to pull your arm until your rip it off just to have something to throw at them!  You walk into a person's office and you notice a framed university degree hanged on the wall. Wow... free information... let's harass this guy! What did you like about the university? What are the advantages of living in that town? What did you learn in that major? How did this career affect your personal life? ...etc.<br />Yet what puzzled me the most was that she herself, Mrs. Debra Fine the first, gives you a totally contradicting advice telling you to avoid being an FBI agent! She warns you against harassing people with questions. And I was like, but... what about what you've been telling me for over an hour now? What should I do with all the questioning techniques you just taught me? I guess, nothing...<br />The second reason I didn't like the book is that whatever good advices remain after you filter the book are pretty much obvious to the average reader. Always keep an eye contact but don't just stare and try to nod and show interest. Don't initiate a conversation you're not sincerely interested in because it will show on you. Always seek the opportunity to converse with strangers because you never know what tremendous effect they might have on your life. And so on.<br />The only good outcome possible of this book is for really shy readers who need some motivation to get out of their shells and approach people. For that purpose I recommend buying the audio tape because Mrs. Fine is a good speaker and her style is exciting and moving. But please, while doing so be careful so that you don't transform from a shy person into a nagging annoying person!	2002-07-02
US	50354756	R3FE81XGWAO295	067104334X	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese: An Amazing Way to Deal With Change in Your Work and In Your Life	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Silly story with very few lessons to teach.	If you're planning to read this book then beware... it is designed and structured to manipulate you! I realized this half the way through the book, and it dismayed me.<br />The premise of this book is to use a metaphorical story to simplify complicated life matters in order to deliver the message of the author in an easy and smooth manner. So what's the message of the author?<br />The author is telling you that you should always be ready for change when it happens. And not only be ready for it, but look forward to it. Expect it and be excited to go through it. The author is trying to say, if I understood him correctly, that change is inevitable in our world. That change will happen to you more than once in almost every aspect of your life. Mr. Johnson explains that the first reaction of intelligent humans is to resist change and fear it. Humans resist change because they fear the unknown, and thus would prefer to cling to their old ways of living even if they are not useful anymore just because it's easier to do so. Mr. Johnson wants you to free yourself from that mindset and be flexible and receptive of change.<br />Mr. Johnson decides to deliver this message the same way children are taught important principles and morals at their early ages, and that is through telling a simple story of four characters. The four characters live in a huge sophisticated maze. The maze is very difficult to travel through and the chances of getting lost are high. Two of the characters are mice, and the other two are \\"little people\\" called Haw and Hem. These four characters have one purpose in life, which is to find and eat cheese. The story begins when the characters find a vast amount of cheese in one section of the maze. The amount is immeasurable and the possibility of it running out is incomprehensible. Then the unintelligent mice take off their sneakers and hang them on their necks and begin eating the cheese. The intelligent little people on the other hand take off their sneakers and start building a social life around that pile of cheese.<br />One day though, the cheese ran out! And to tell a long story short, the mice, being all ready with their sneakers handy and nothing to get attached to, put on the sneakers and jump back into the maze in search of new cheese. The little people though are stunned! \\"Who moved my cheese?\\" is the point they keep going around and around with no intention of searching for new cheese because they are fearful of going back to the scary maze. Haw however begins to realize this and goes through a journey of gradually getting over his fears and going back to the maze and exploring it in search of new cheese, leaving Hem behind because Hem did not accept the fact that he had to change.<br />Once the story is over, the author makes up a discussion between friends at a school reunion discussing how this story resembles aspects of each of their personal lives. They discuss what the \\"cheese\\" is to each of them and how they resisted the change when the \\"cheese\\" was moved. And the book ends there.<br />Why did I not like this book? Well because of the paradigm it's trying to make me look at myself through! In this story I'm under the mercy of some unknown entity that keeps moving my cheese, and thus I should always be on the look for that! I can't make my own cheese! Instead I'm under the mercy of whoever distributes the cheese across the vast maze. I should always accept change because I'm so weak against it, and if I do choose to resist any type of change then I'll end up cheese-less!<br />Another flaw in this book is the oversimplification! This oversimplification can result in delivering the wrong message! So what if I accept the message and will change whenever I believe that change is required? What about my principles? Should those change too if they seem to be inept with a cruel environment I find myself to be living in? What about relationships? Should I give up on them if it seemed to have ran out of cheese?<br />A neat maneuver at the end of the book tries to escape this last flaw. In the discussion at the end one of the friends mentions that his relationship seems to not be providing him cheese anymore and thus he should end it, or change in other words. Another friend though tells him that what he needs to change is his attitude in this relationship and not the relationship itself! So my question is, how do you know what to change? How do you know which aspect of your life did actually run out of cheese?<br />Does the book answers these questions? Yes. It tells you that you need to change! How brilliant Dr. Johnson!<br />My advice is that you should seek more sophisticated books about personal independence and character power instead. Yet I still give this book 3 stars because it was short. It did not take a lot of my time to finish, which was a smart thing to do. I would've given it more stars if it wasn't for the great revelations the author claims that the readers should expect after finishing the book. Maybe if I was 6 years old I would've experienced tHem, but not at my age. Buy but with low expectations.	2002-06-17
US	50354756	R3S7OTHW7RFBAI	0671687964	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Don't be fooled by the cheesy title!	Are you thinking like I was thinking before buying this book? Are you somewhat repelled by the cheesy title as I was? Are you not willing to waste your time reading a book that only rephrases the same material inspirational books have been repeating for ages now? Because I was before I bought to this book, and even after purchasing it. However, once I started it I realized how mistaken I was!<br />The first problem I had with the title was the mentioning of habits! I assumed that the author would be talking about habits you read in books written by Carnegie or whoever such as reviewing your behavior every week, thinking twice before talking, and other similar habits. And only after hearing so much about the book and how it greatly affected the lives of many that I decided to buy it. But I was still worried that it will only offer psychological quick fixes. However upon starting the book I realized how wrong I was.<br />The author begins by redefining the word \\"Habit\\" as he sees it. He explains that a habit is not a mechanism of behavior, but instead a paradigm to live by and apply on all your life's situations. Then Mr. Covey explains that to learn or acquire a habit the person must possess three qualities in relation to that habit. The person must possess the will, the ability, and the know-how.<br />After that the author introduces the notion of the emotional bank account. He explains that every human has an emotional bank account with every other human. And one can not withdraw from that account if the person did not deposit in it in the first place. Deposits can be in the forms of polite gestures and kind comments up to special favors and personal support.<br />Then he starts talking about the 7 habits he's about to introduce and how to learn them to get the most out of them. He suggests a method, which I found to be very effective, that requires you to commit yourself to teaching whatever you learn to a friend or a relative. Knowing that you're going to pass this information to another person and most probably will have to answer questions and inquiries will entice you to learn harder and avoid skipping any issues. He also explains that the habits must be learned and implemented in sequence, and that it won't be as effective if you start with the second or third habit if you haven't practiced the first habit.<br />By the time I finished this long introduction I realized that I'm reading a very interesting book, and that Mr. Covey must have points of great value to teach. And I was right.<br />I won't list the 7 habits here as a previous reviewer did because I believe that most of these habits are already known to us at some level. Mentioning them here in short will not add anything and will not help you understand how related and interdependent they are to each other. Mr. Covey did that job amazingly!<br />This is the conclusion I came out with after finishing this book! The book truly helped me improve my performance over the matter of 2 weeks! My performance at work was deteriorating and I was on the verge of breaking up with my girlfriend whom I've been with for more than 2 years. Yet after reading this book I began excelling again at work and my relationship have never been better!<br />Of course, this book will provide you no magical solutions! But it will sure teach you how to construct your own magical wand!<br />I wholeheartedly recommend reading this book!	2002-06-15
US	50354756	RRGYLSZAHAV2	0684848597	621724421	People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil	Books	4	464	509	N	N	Thought provoking and entertaining	Don't even consider buying this book if you haven't read the author's first book \\"The road less traveled.\\" This is a sequel to that book and a lot of the notions and concepts discussed here were established in the first book. Besides, the author, M. Scott Peck, introduces many controversial suggestions in this book, and most of his findings are either shocking or, at least, unusual. Only by reading the first book you will establish the respect and admiration of the author's wisdom and intellect necessary to hear out his out of the ordinary ideas.<br />\\"The road less traveled\\" is a psychological study of love and of human spiritual growth, or in other words, the good side of humanity. This book is a follow up to that study. It is only logical that when you study the light that you wonder about the darkness. However, human evil is a concept totally alien to the science of psychiatry. Besides, as the author himself admits, using the term \\"Evil\\" can be an act of evilness itself! It is also highly risky to approach the flames of evilness without catching up on its fires yourself! With these precautions Dr. Peck begins a fantastic book in the study of human evil through the eyes of psychiatry.<br />The book begins by telling in detail the story of one of his patients who seemed to be a happy man leading a very normal and healthy life. However, as he carries on, we start realizing along with Dr. Peck that evil was staring the man in every corner of his life, hiding in his problems and even among his family members! It is by the end of the story we realize that this normal person literally did sell his soul to the devil!<br />How did this happen? How can one sell his soul to the devil? Does the devil even exist? With these questions Dr. Peck dives into the study of evil in human beings. Dr. Peck claims that evil does exist, but it's neither incurable nor unavoidable! And the only way to combat evil is to admit to its existence and to recognize its danger. How can you fightsomething that you don't even believe is true, he says.<br />Dr. Peck explains why scientists dismiss the idea of the existence of evil and how that is caused by their limited perception of what science stands for. He then carries on by giving examples of some of the cases he had to deal with where he allegedly met with the human evil. And in one chapter he dedicates it wholly to one story of one of his clients whom he failed to heal after more than 5 years of therapy because he didn't have the knowledge or the courage to admit that it was evil that she was suffering from. Later on he explains a different manifestation of evil that he terms as \\"The group evil.\\" He explains that evil can be present in a group even if all of its members were not individually evil!<br />The end of the book talks about the dangers and the hopes of creating a science that studies evil. Once I finished the book, I had even more respect for Dr. Peck than I ended up with after reading his first book. Dr. Peck's writing style is pleasant and easy to comprehend. And his story telling techniques are exciting as well as thought provoking. By reading this book you will definitely have so many thoughts to ponder on for many days whether you agree with the author's findings or not. By reading this book you will definitely add intellectual, and possibly moral, value to yourself, and will probably find it highly entertaining at the same time. I totally recommend buying this book.<br />Nevertheless I have one serious reservation about this book, and it's in Chapter 5, which is titled \\"Of possession and exorcism.\\" In that chapter the author takes one hell of a detour and starts talking about his personal investigation of the myth of possession and the alleged healing practice of exorcism. The shocking finding he throws in your face is that both are true and that he personally witnessed two exorcism procedures, one of which was a possession by Satan himself!<br />And even though I try my best to remainan open minded person by being receptive of every point of view out there, I can't accept such an outrageous claim if not accompanied with evidence and reason. The author's attitude in that particular chapter, surprisingly atypical of him, was very vague and unclear. He claims that the two exorcism experiences he went through were intense and that to give them justice would require that a whole separate book be written about them. Hence, he would only give us the impressions and resolutions he came out with from those experiences.<br />I, in my humble opinion, find that argument fallible! I don't think that anyone would've minded adding 200 more pages to that chapter just to hear those stories! Besides, if he truly thought that they deserve a book of their own then how come he never wrote one? I am mostly surprised because he never failed to extend proof and reason whenever he's presenting an unusual thought. This time it was very different though. By the time I reached the end of that chapter I felt that I was totally deceived by the author and that he did not deserve the respect I had for him.<br />However, once I started the following chapter, he gained back my respect of him and more immediately! I don't know what to think of chapter 5 and whether I prefer that I didn't read it or not. But, as I said previously, this book including chapter 5 will leave you thinking whether you agree with its findings or not.<br />I recommend it.	2002-05-23
US	50354756	R1S3YQK8SO5C6J	0842336710	549449816	Wise Words and Quotes	Books	1	23	31	N	N	A waste of money, time, and shelf space!	Quotes are great tools to corroborate your arguments and to stress your points. However, what's the worth of a quote that has no source? As far as it goes, you can make yourself as many as you want without having to buy this book!<br />When I started looking for a quotes book I wanted a book that amasses quotable quotes from famous authors, legendary leaders, respectable scholars, and historical figures! Such quotes would be of great value when you're writing essay reports, professional CV's, speeches, and personal statements. Thus when I found this book I thought that my search has concluded! Once I received the book though, disappointment grew heavy inside me.<br />The author of this book categorized the quotes under more than 100 topics. At the beginning of the book you find an index of all the topics in the book, which seemed to be a good start. But once you start reading the book you realize that more than 70% of the quotes are mentioned without a source! And to be more disappointing, most of the sources of the remaining 30% are either unrecognizable or irrelevant to topic of the quote!<br />To site an example, I needed quotes about leadership. However, almost all of the quotes were mentioned without sources, an act that labels them \\"Worthless!\\" And the few quotes that had sources were quotes from figures who never assumed positions of leadership!<br />It is also worth mentioning that the quotes without sources are not that interesting either. I can collect many quotes from newspapers and magazines that challenge the quality of the quotes in this book.<br />In the end, I totally regret buying this book for the purpose mentioned above. Also, I can't think of any other useful purpose that this book can serve. If you still intend to buy this book, then it might be wise to keep on searching because I'm sure there must be something better out there. Good luck.	2002-05-13
US	50354756	R1S2K2F6Y25IJL	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Great book, but not flawless and a little too long.	After the terrorist attacks of September 11 a lot of people were talking about this book and how accurate its prophecies were. At the same time a lot of scholars and politics denounced the work of the author and denied any relation between the attacks and the authors predictions. And being the I-dont-believe-it-until-I-see-it person I am I had to buy the book and read it.<br />The book begins by explaining the concept of a world divided among civilizations. The author argues that it has to be the case because people can only identify themselves by differentiating from others. I am who I am because Im not you nor him. I like myself because Im different than you are. He builds on that by explaining that the world can not be united under one civilization and thus members of every civilization will cling to their respective civilization and will fight off any attempts otherwise. I found myself agreeing with this argument.<br />Afterwards the author defines the civilizations of the world and lays out the characteristics of each with a brief historical background to explain the status of each. His analysis is supported with so many quotes from historians and politicians of each civilization, which makes his analysis very credible. I found his analysis to be fair and bears a lot of truth in it.<br />Then the author explains the effects of the superiority of the western civilization and how that affected its behavior and the way its perceived by other civilizations. So far so good, I was thinking.<br />However, from that point forward he starts relating every political move and action to his civilizational analysis without even addressing any other possible factors. He was successful, in my humble opinion, in identifying weaknesses and pressure points in every civilization, but to expect the dynamics of the global politics to react solely based on those findings could be misleading. He also commits the mistake of generalizing and simplifying the inner dynamics of every civilization. At the first half of the book he acknowledges that each civilization has inner dynamics that will affect its behavior with other civilizations, but in the second half he seems like he totally forgot about that. I think that these flaws in his analysis resulted in misleading assumptions and predictions. I could go on and on about what flaws I was able to identify, but I guess if youre interested to know you might read the book yourself. As far as I know I could be totally wrong.<br />One more thing bothered me about the book was its length! It is very entertaining, but after finishing two thirds of it I had a very hard time pushing myself to finish it! It became very boring and self-repeating to the degree that I wanted to rip some of the pages off! Maybe if the author releases an abridged version then that would be a more interesting book to read.<br />In conclusion, I found this book to be of great value for me. I learned a lot and Im sure it added a lot to the current knowledge of the world. I only recommend that you read it with an open eye, for no author is infallible, especially Mr. Samuel P. Huntington!	2002-04-19
US	50354756	R3LZQGOBFPGJ3J	068485015X	962464879	The Road Less Traveled	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A must read book as soon as possible	In order for this review to be helpful for you I'll assume that you haven't read the book and debating whether it's going to be worth your money and while.<br />I have just finished reading this book, and at once I logged on Amazon.com and bought a bunch of the author's other books! I also bought this same book as gifts for friends and relatives! This is how much I liked the author's mind and style and how much I appreciate his work in this book.<br />This book falls under the &quot;Popular Psychology&quot; category. It's written in a very simple language and a very attractive approach. The author has some very revolutionary visions about the human psyche and mind, but he doesn't shock you with them immediately. Instead, he starts with very commonly accepted beliefs and takes you on a very smooth journey that is full with knowledge and often surprises!<br />I believe that the book is a must read for everybody. However the last chapter, titled &quot;Grace&quot;, might be quite controversial to many. The pace in that last chapter takes a faster approach and some readers might find themselves disagreeing with the author's approach.<br />Nonetheless, the book is very valuable and it will definately change the way you perceive life and humanity overall!<br />In summary, I think that this book is worth your money and while.	2001-12-19
US	50354756	R2Y4WQBJVWAAFO	1856262146	394634981	Dictionary of Word Origins	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Disappointing	I received this book as a gift from a friend who noticed my general interest in the origins of words and phrases. And indeed, I was happy when I first saw the title because I do find this subject to be interesting. However upon reading the book I was disappointed.<br />I can't really put my hand on the reason(s) of my disappointment. It could be because of the fact that I was able to point out a few mistakes myself. It could be because of the complicated and unorganized fashion of presenting the information. It could even be because of the poor printing quality! Nevertheless, I was disappointed and did not find this book to be satisfying.<br />It could be because I myself didn't have sincere interest in the subject, but I doubt that.	2001-11-22
US	50354756	R2J7N49L0AOQ3D	0812092813	652020059	501 French Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Learn Format Alphabetically Arranged (English and French Edition)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A must if you're learning French!	If you're learning French then you probably know how difficult it is to conjugate the French verbs, and thus you'll feel the need for this book. But if you're about to learn French then take my word, it's going to be very difficult to survive without having a conjugation reference.<br />For that purpose, this book is a great choice! As the title says, it has 501 verbs fully conjugated. The verbs are sorted in an alphabetical order. Every verb has a whole page to it where it shows its English translation, and all its possible conjugations. The book starts with a few pages explaining the conjugations and some rules about their usages. Very helpful.<br />My only complaints about this book are that it's very difficult to reach a verb if you know its English meaning only. I wish that there was an index somewhere with the verbs sorted by there English translations instead of having to go through all the verbs to find what you're looking for. And that the print quality is not that good.<br />In summary, this book serves the purpose and then some! I highly recommend it. But hey, don't expect that you'll learn French out of this book! It serves as a reference only, not as a learning tool!	2001-11-20
US	50354756	R1XUPIC05KLY4D	0764551930	17790989	French For Dummies	Books	3	48	55	N	N	Good as a supplementary learning tool	I have come to the conclusion that one can NOT learn french without attending the old-fashion French class-room based seminars! I tried books, audio-cassettes, and interactive PC softwares yet I made no progress! But once I started attending the classes, all the books and cassettes I had helped me to advance at a rate faster than all my class-peers!<br />Having that in mind, this book is a good book to read once you start a French course. It's comprehensive on the basic concepts and it's fun to read as well. It will give you some tips that your French instructor might miss or overlook. It will also enhance your vocabulary.<br />The CD however is quite disappointing! It pronounces the alphabet, which is good. But only few of the conversations are available on the CD. I think that if they had the pronounciations of various words available as well then it would've been much more helpful.<br />If you're expecting to learn French by reading a funny book or by listening to cassettes while driving, then get real! Learning a new language is a difficult task. Don't expect that a book or a cassette will make it any easier.	2001-11-18
US	50354756	RNEGWIC4HJUMO	0684869020	250808166	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The REAL 101 for finance and capital markets!	This is the greatest book EVER to break into the finance and the capital markets worlds! It starts so easy and then takes you on a smooth journey until, by the end of the book, you're able to read AND analyse financial data and reports!<br />And among its best features is that it's so entertaining! It was a very fun book to read, and it also has so many interesting information that you don't get to know even in finance schools!<br />My recommendation is to BUY IT!	2001-11-05
US	50354756	R3NIYWK15FYEXZ	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Difficult and demanding, but definately worth it!	I've had general interest in history before buying this book, and when I saw it at a library one day I thought that this would be a great introduction to real history! And I was right!<br />The title of this book says it all, it's indeed the history of the world in a nutshell! However small size has an advantage and a disadvantage. The advantage is that it's readable! Heck, I've studied books in college that are even bigger! The disadvantage, however, is that the interesting details must be omitted! Don't except to find those interesting stories about great kings and legendary leaders! Even the greatest of battles are merely touched upon! BUT... once you read this book, you'll know what part of history you're really interested in!<br />An important note, it is very difficult to read! I bought a pocket-dictionary and attached it to this book, yet sometimes it didn't have some of the words the author used! But what did you expect?	2001-11-05
US	50354756	R1XQIC4WDLE8GX	0130314706	116557689	Gaap Handbook of Policies and Procedures, 2001	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Like bread to a meal... if you're an accountant!	For accountants: You MUST have this book! I'm an accountant and this along with a dictionary of accounting terms are among my most essential books to have on my work shelf! It's a great reference and ALSO a great learning tool for topics that you're not fully knowledgeable in!<br />For non-accountants: This book migh be a little too technical for your needs! Unless you'll be deeply involved in accounting issues, you might want to look for another more basic book. Nevertheless, you can always make use of this book if you have one!	2001-11-05
US	50354756	R2OPF94CXX85X6	0452274826	532008618	From Here to Economy: A Shortcut to Economic Literacy	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Simple, educational, and entertaining!	If you want to learn about the economy then this is the book for you! It's a great start if you know nothing about the economy. And even if you did some time ago, this book would still be a good refreshing resource.<br />I recommend this book for basic knowledge of the economy.	2001-11-04
US	50354756	R1CW2YFBOF5EJ1	0764112597	132560120	Dictionary of Accounting Terms (Barron's Business Guides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good for all people, accountants and non accountants!	A dictionary of accounting is the best idea for an accounting reference book! And above that, it was done very nicely as well!<br />If you're an accouting student, a professional accountant, or encounter a few accounting terms every once in a while, then this book is great for you! It's very comprehensive and informative!<br />A great value for your money!	2001-11-04
US	50354756	R2C02WFA5RH8S1	0764107909	264364050	Dictionary of Finance and Investment Terms (Barron's Financial Guides)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Great for all people!	Whether you are a finance student, busienss student, professional financier, or have any level of involvement in finance, then this book is my #1 recommendation for you!<br />Don't you sometimes run into a term that you have no idea what it means? Or a term that you've heard before but can't put your finger on its exact meaning? What about the times that you argued with a friend or a colleague about the exact meaning of a financial term? Even better, don't you enjoy it when you introduce a new term to your friends and come out as the guy who knows about finance more than they do?<br />If you answered yes to any of those questions then this book is for you.<br />Enough said :)	2001-11-04
US	50354756	R3UND9Z3CX8WLD	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	2	10	44	N	N	It's ok, but there are better alternatives	I read only through quarter of this book and then stopped. I felt that the subjects needed reorganizing and many important issues were untouched. And at some points in its efforts to simplify it addressed some issues very superficially.<br />If you want to learn about economics from the beginning then I recommend other books such as &quot;From Here to Economy : A Short Cut to Economic Literacy&quot;. If you read both books you'll understand what I'm talking about. And no, I wasn't paid for this review... (even though I wouldn't mind if I was! LOL)	2001-11-04
US	50354756	R1GKQ7B8VTRTHF	0764112759	223880332	Finance (Business Review Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A great basic, intermediate and a bit more!	I loved this book! Usually the fact that it's a text book would bore you already, however this book is both entertaining and educational! I'm an accountant but recently I've started exploring the investment banking world, and this book was definately my candel through the dark times! It's easy to read, yet rich in content! Actually, I loved this book so much that I bought all the Barron's business series books! If you want to study finance, or need a great comprehensive reference, then I recommend this book!	2001-11-02
US	50354756	R18990P7TXMJFV	067189515X	964755774	The Psychology of Achievement	Books	3	18	46	N	N	Nice... just nice	Well, I like to listen to educational and motivational audio tapes while I'm driving. Keep that in mind when you hear me say that this tape is a nice one. I think it's nice because it educated me about psychology, however my life didn't change and I still make my lousy monthly salary as I did before I bought this tape! LOL The worst part about it (I guess) is that the speaker (also the author) sounded at some points like a salesman... or in other words, insincere... but that's just my opinion. Anyway, it's not a waste of time, and considering the price I think that it's not a bad decision to get it :)	2001-10-31
US	50354756	R1DX7CPJC5H93K	0609601334	707550029	All-Audio French Cassette (LL(R) All-Audio Courses)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Very difficult and hard-to-follow approach	I had no idea about French when I first bought this tape, and after I listened to the first tape I still had no idea about French! It is impossible to learn French from these tapes! I spent two days listening to Lesson 1 trying to grasp its content, but it was very difficult. New words are introduced without explaining their meanings, they talk very fast, basic concepts are ignored, and the exercises are useless! After spending almost a month trying to learn from the tapes I decided to enroll in French classes. After a month now I am the best student so far and I can initiate basic conversations. I guess this means that the problem doesn't lie within me, it's with those tapes. I did however benefit from learning a few new French words, but that is not worth the cost at all.	2001-07-21
