US	50351179	R1FOOC5LWKQSHN	0345407083	580121128	Do Unto Others	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Lacking	Count me among the lucky few who picked this book up from the library rather than buying it from the store. The premise of the book is interesting, but the execution falls far short.<br /><br />The lead character is a childless middle-aged married woman,Zena,  who regrets never having had a child.  She met an African girl named Ifa at one of her social club meetings and learns that the girl's visa is about to expire. Taking pity on the girl's plight, Zena and her husband take Ifa in while the husband tries to get the visa extended.<br /><br />Zena is a successful business owner, yet we are supposed to believe that she is gullible enough to allow a stranger to stay in her home for weeks. The girl is greedy, arrogant & sneaky. Still, the couple tolerate her behavior and look on her as a daughter of sorts. That just seemed unrealistic.<br /><br />True, there are plenty of stereotypes in this book and I did wonder why the author had to take it so far with the religious things, but as far as Ifa's attitude goes, there are plenty of Africans who look down on those of us born in the United States. I met many of them when I was in college. Heck, I encountered one just a few weeks ago.<br /><br />The author did go overboard with all of Ifa's bad attributes because if the girl were all that bad, then it would make no sense for the couple to put up with her. It's not like the girl was family, and you don't form a deep attachment to people that quickly.<br /><br />This was a quick read, so it wasn't a huge waste of my time. Still, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.	2005-08-30
US	50351179	R3MG6VSFQGEWPU	1569473455	159621946	Darkest Child: A Novel	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Compelling	This is the story of a dysfunctional family living in the Jim Crow south. Though the Quinn children are hindered by entrenched racism, the bulk of their suffering is inflicted by their mother Rozelle. Rozelle is a beautiful, but evil, woman who seems to delight in tormenting her children. She has beautiful clothing and stockings, while the kids are dressed in old, filthy rags. Their house is a raggedy shack, but she has a bed while the children sleep on the floor.<br /><br />Rozelle has something like 10 kids all with different fathers and is about to give birth when the book opens. Tangy Mae, the darkest one, is doing well in school but her mother wants her to take over her cleaning job to bring some money in the house. This is the beginning of the end of Tangy Mae's innocence. I really hated how the mother kept calling Tangy Mae lazy and insisting that she would have to quit school. School was her only refuge from her miserable life.<br /><br />The mother is a complicated character. She is a whore, yet she is always hollering about her children bringing shame on her. Rozelle even forces two of her daughters into prostitution -- one to get one of her brothers out jail. Rozelle acts like she hates her children, but she does not want any of them to leave her and is constantly talking about the sacrifices she's made to raise them. Never mind that this raising barely included decent shelter, clothing and food. The reader never finds out what's really wrong with Rozelle. Is she just mean, or does she have some undiagnosed psychological problem?<br /><br />I found myself rooting for those children and hoped that they would be rescued. As much as I enjoyed the book, there are quite a few loose ends. Where are all these children's fathers? We read about a couple of men, but most are never mentioned. When Tangy Mae dares to point that out that to her younger brother it was like she'd committed blasphemy.<br /><br />What happened to Rozelle? We are told a little bit about her conflict with her mother, but it's not enough to explain her later behavior. She is light enough to pass for white and has a major color complex and even refused the one man who was willing to marry her because he had dark skin. Rozelle was willing to creep around with him and spend his money though.<br /><br />I would love to read a sequel to find out if those kids ever recover from their hard upbringing.it about her conflict with her mother, but it's not enough to explain her later behavior. She is light enough to pass for white and has a major color complex and even refused the one man who was willing to marry her because he had dark skin. Rozelle was willing to creep around with him and spend his money though.  <br /> <br />I would love to read a sequel to find out if those kids ever recover from their hard upbringing.	2005-08-07
US	50351179	R2YO3GKM2110JL	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Lifestyles of the rich & petty	The book started off well enough but somewhere in the midst of Mrs. X's ridiculous demands, Mr. X's girlfriend's visits and Nanny's inability to stand up for herself, I was just ready for it to be over.<br /><br />Initially Nanny is a sympathetic character -- an earnest college student on the brink of graduation trying to support herself in expensive New York City. But after a while, I had to question her judgement when it becomes apparent that her employers have no respect for her. Who would jeopardize her college education because some thoughtless woman can't be bothered to come home so that you can get to class on time?<br /><br />This girl was hired as a nanny but also has to run errands, cook for the kid, and run interference for the husband's bold mistress. And for all that, the Xes treat her like a leper. Nanny comes from a family that is well off, so I don't know why she didn't just ask her parents or grandmother for help instead enduring the whims of the unstable Mrs. X.<br /><br />And not only is Mrs. X a tyrant who has no respect for Nanny's time, she also has the nerve to quibble over her hours and rarely pays on time. So we're supposed to believe that a girl bright enough to make it through four years of college can't do better than this demeaning employment?<br /><br />I was willing to forgive a lot of the outrageousness -- Nan sharing a studio apartment with a roommate and the roomate's boyfriend, the husband's mistress calling her at home and sending her a shopping list -- but the ending was too much for me. After enduring 10 days of hell taking care of her charge and every other kid in Nantucket, Nan is fired abruptly and shorted out of about $1,400. And what does she do about it? She didn't call Mrs. X and demand the money that she is owed. She didn't blast her for treating her like peon for the last 9 months. Nanny did attempt to clue Mrs. X in about the mistress, but she is cursed for her efforts and stops. Now had that been me, I would have delighted in giving her every sordid detail before leaving that house.<br /><br />The Xes were self absorbed jerks, but Nanny allowed them to get away with it. If you continually let people walk all over you at some point you have to accept responsibility for remaining in the situation. This was a girl with options who must have had some kind of martyr complex. This book was just too unrealistic, and it ended badly.d detail before leaving that house.     The Xes were self absorbed jerks, but Nanny allowed them to get away with it. If you continually let people walk all over you at some point you have to accept responsibility for remaining in the situation. This was a girl with options who must have had some kind of martyr complex. This book was just too unrealistic, and it ended badly.	2005-04-28
US	50351179	RLS09JRAUYYZ5	1401308023	884574103	Gotham Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dishy!	\\"Gotham Diaries\\" is a  scandalous, fast paced read that leaves the readers feeling like they have been given a window into a gilded world that few of us will ever know. And given the mentality of these warped people, I'm not sure that it's a world I would want to experience in real life.<br /><br />My problem with most contemporary urban books is that they are typically superficial with weak plots and poor story development -- and dripping with designer labels. This book is not like that. The authors skewer the materialistic denizens of Manhattan, but they do it skillfully in a way that makes you wonder just who the characters represent (especially the DL rapper who takes Manny's boyfriend). I know that this is just a novel, but given the circles that Tonya Lewis Lee and Crystal McCrary Anthony have access to, you can't tell me that they weren't influenced by real people.<br /><br />The characters in \\"Gotham Diaries\\" are preoccupied with keeping up appearances, and this leads to many poor decisions that propel the story forward. We are shown a newly broke socialite, a social climbing homosexual, a cheating husband with a hoochie mistress and his miserable wife who is about the only likeable character in the entire book. The others are so disgusting that you can't help but root for their downfall.<br /><br />Ultimately, greed and hubris are the undoing of two of the main characters who are driven out of town once their scheme is exposed. My one complaint about the book is that the scheme is so outrageous that there is no way that the perpetrators could have hoped to keep it secret.<br /><br />I enjoyed this book and definitely recommend it.	2005-04-26
US	50351179	R2PN2LH7QD8HO4	B0000ABICX	242781607	Acting Out : A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	This is no fairytale	Like some other reviewers, I didn't intially like Ina because she does seem a bit whiny and spoiled, but by the second half I was rooting for her to get it together.<br />This book is about an upper middle class family mired in the drudgery of daily life. Ina's day is filled with running the household and caring for her three children while hubby Jay is out trying to become a real estate mogul. Ina felt stifled and the two drifted apart as unspoken resentment crept into the relationship.<br />Ina did what a lot of us do while trying to figure out what to do with ourselves -- she settled. She went for predictability and security and wound up miserable. I was nearly in that situation myself. We think that trying to be what someone else wants is the easy way out, but suppressing your true self only leads to more problems down the road.<br />Beset by financial difficulties and in the midst of an extramarital affair, Jay leaves Ina, and she is forced to contemplate her life. She has to somehow reconnect with the person who existed before she became the matriarch and Martha Stewart wannabe.<br />This book offers no tidy conclusion, but in the end, the couple somehow manage to reconcile after a period of instability. Though Jay hurt and betrayed her, Ina grew from the experience and they were able to start over -- as equals this time.<br />Little touches on the ambiguities of motherhood and life in suburbia, but the big story is about Ina and how she copes with the life she created but doesn't want, and how she has to start over and become her own person. This book was a nice slice of reality.	2003-08-01
US	50351179	R29F6LS2VK11OB	0385501617	737360224	P. G. County	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Bourgeosie  Black Folks Behaving Badly	This book is definitely a page-turner, and it gets your attention, but not in a good way. The author sensationalizes shallow, tawdry behavior in this tale of affluent Black folks who are little more than social climbers and adulterers. When I was a broke college student, books like this provided a break from my bleak reality. Now that I'm out of school, a litle older and a lot wiser, I find little value in books like this. Vapid plots, superficial characters and wildly unrealistic situations just don't do it for me anymore.<br />I was looking for a trashy summer beach read, and this is definitely that book. If you're expecting anything more you will be quite disappointed.	2003-07-26
US	50351179	R8PACN8Z799A3	0312878915	253292490	Chemical Pink	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	Twisted	This fast-paced book offers a view into the seedy side of female bodybuilding, a subculture that is ripe for all kinds of deviant behavior because it's based on the use of expensive illegal drugs. This book is really the same old story of female exploitation and body worship, but it's taken to extremes in the characters of Aurora and Charles. Aurora is a blank slate just waiting to be molded by a dominant personality whereas Charles is a depraved individual who uses his money to get women to indulge his nasty little fantasies.<br />I always wondered about the mentality of a person who would pump herself full of steroids to build an unnatural-looking physique. It's an expensive undertaking and female bodybuilders don't make much money -- not even the national level pros. They are viewed as freaks by mainstream society, the drugs endanger their health and they have usually have to resort to porn or prostitution to foot the bill, so what's the great attraction?<br />We don't learn a whole lot about Aurora in this book because we only read about her training or living out Charles' sexual fantasies. She seems a bit two dimensional in this regard though she does have a daughter and a mother. Aurora is very passive as she goes from being controlled by her mother to being controlled by her first trainer, then by Charles her sponsor and the trainer that he hires. She spends all her time doing what other people want her to do and is never happy.<br />On the whole, I found the book interesting but a bit superficial. And I was sickened by the descriptions of the perversions Aurora endured in return for Charles' sponsorship. If I took anything at all from this book, it was that you can never put a price on your dignity.	2003-03-15
US	50351179	R28G6DEPXFESZU	0345441567	682734838	The Black Rose: The Dramatic Story of Madam C.J. Walker, America's First Black Female Millionaire	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A remarkable tale	I've read much about Madame Walker and how she created an empire through sheer determination and hard work, yet most of these accounts don't give a whole lot of insight into Sarah Breedlove McWilliams Walker, the person behind the legend. Madame Walker's life is such an awe-inspiring one that you can hardly blame her biographers if they seemed to focus mainly on her business accomplishments. But there was so much more to her. I understand that this is historical fiction, and as such, certain instances and characters are fabricated, but the gist of the book is based on research completed by Alex Haley. Still there are certain things that remain unknown about the great lady.<br />Because this is a novel, it allowed the author to create dialogue and situations that may not have actually happened to Madame Walker, but were certainly possiblities for Black women during that time period. The slights from other Black folks who thought themselves superior to the former laundress, the incident with the White men who accosted her when she was alone at the train station, pulling a gun on her cheating husband in a hotel room with his other woman, these incidents may not have occured to Madame Walker as described by Due, but these situations help flesh out the story.<br />Madame Walker believed in herself and in the worthiness of Black women when no one else did. Unlike other wealthy women of that era, Madame was a self-made millionaire. Her wealth didn't come from marriage or inheritance, and she helped other women make their own money along the way. Despite all this, there were those who held her in disdain either because of her humble beginnings or because they thought that she was only trying to get Black women to straighten their hair.<br />Tananarive Due is an wondrous storyteller, and this book will impress upon the reader just how remarkable Madam Walker really was.	2003-02-01
US	50351179	RVEP4WZ2HN37X	0736041850	602472136	Strength Training Anatomy	Books	5	110	141	N	Y	Indispensable!	I buy lots of fitness and strength training books, and this one is by far the best I've purchased. The book may look small, but it provides an extensive listing of exercises and includes tips about variations that will change how you work each muscle. This is important for a couple of reasons.<br />To maximize your gains in the gym, you have to constantly change your program so that your body doesn't hit a plateau. Regularly incorporating new exercises will also keep you from becoming bored with your workout. This book will show you how using a rope attachment with the pulley works a different part of the triceps as opposed to doing bench dips or doing a kickback. Also, the illustrations show you the auxiliary muscles that are recruited during compound movements like presses and deadlifts.<br />At first I was worried that the book might be too much for me to absorb, but it's not because the author does not get overly-technical with the explanations. The text is concise, yet thorough, and the pictures are highly detailed.<br />This is a wonderful reference book, and I highly recommend it.	2002-12-12
US	50351179	R2HFYDFI64YVMH	0345382781	130489515	Deals with the Devil	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Incisive	This collection of essays from Pearl Cleage, Black nationalist, feminist (actually a womanist) and artist gives her views on sexism, domestic abuse and racism. These essays were written in the early 90's and delve into controversies as diverse as the Clarence Thomas Supreme Court confirmation hearings, Miles Davis' brutality to women, the flap over Luther Campbell's raunchy lyrics and the fuss over Spike Lee's films. Lee came under fire from scared White folks who feared (unnecesarily)that \\"Do the Right Thing,\\" would incite violence and angry Black activists who worried that \\"X\\" would be a disservice to Malcolm's legacy. Cleage gives her own take on these events and many others that I won't attempt to list here. She lets no one off the hook and challenges us all to think critically instead following the herd.<br />I was a little put off by the first few essays in this collection because the author comes off as overwrought in the discussions about sexism, but the more I read with an objective eye I began to get upset myself. If it is true as she says that five women are murdered each day by men who claim to love them -- then why aren't more people discussing this? Domestic abuse certainly affects Black women across all socieconomic strata, yet you rarely hear Black leaders discussing it. Where is the outrage and condemnation? Where are Jesse, Johnnie, Al and all the other perennial frontmen for issues of race and racism? I am ashamed to admit that I never really gave much thought to sexism and domestic abuse, and this book was a real eye-opener.<br />\\"Mad at Miles,\\" asks why so many people continued to support an artist who admitted to being abusive to his wife and was rumored to have beaten other women also. According to Cleage, fans were willing to turn a blind eye to Davis' mean streak even after he revealed in book that a frightened Cicely Tyson once called the police on him after he slapped the taste out of her mouth. And the incident isn't relayed with any sense of remorse. Still, folks continue to buy his work reasoning that she either asked for it, or protesting that his private life was off-limits. Cleage asks whether the same support would be afforded to a White artist who admitted to beating Black men who got on his nerves. Very interesting. While Cleage is Mad at Miles, she is supportive (if uncomfortably) of Luther Campbell's right to make his profane \\"music\\" and even allowed her teenage daughter to buy his CD.<br />Although Cleage takes issue with Black men who supported Clarence Thomas publicly while voicing their misgivings privately just for the sake of supporting the brother, she is also critical of Anita Hill for having taken so long to come forward about the harrassment she endured at his hands. This delay lead Cleage to question whether Hill is really the \\"Shero\\" she was made out to be after the hearings concluded. The way Cleage sees it, Hill's failure to report the harrassment violated the laws she was supposed to be uphold, and she only came forward during the hearings because she was compelled to do so, which was not quite as honorable as it would have been had she come forward on her own. Or even better, if she had reported Uncle Thomas way back when he first got out of line.<br />Passionate and informed, Cleage has firm opinions on everything, and while I might not always agree with her position, I do admire her zeal. And just because you don't agree with someone that doesn't preclude you from learning something from her. This book will make you rethink some things about your own thought process and values, and for that I am grateful. After all, it is challenge that leads to growth.nse of remorse. Still, folks continue to buy his work reasoning that she either asked for it, or protesting that his private life was off-limits. Cleage asks whether the same support would be afforded to a White artist who admitted to beating Black men who got on his nerves. Very interesting. While Cleage is Mad at Miles, she is supportive (if uncomfortably) of Luther Campbell's right to make his profane \\"music\\" and even allowed her teenage daughter to buy his CD.<br />Although Cleage takes issue with Black men who supported Clarence Thomas publicly while voicing their misgivings privately just for the sake of supporting the brother, she is also critical of Anita Hill for having taken so long to come forward about the harrassment she endured at his hands. This delay lead Cleage to question whether Hill is really the \\"Shero\\" she was made out to be after the hearings concluded. The way Cleage sees it, Hill's failure to report the harrassment violated the laws she was supposed to be uphold, and she only came forward during the hearings because she was compelled to do so, which was not quite as honorable as it would have been had she come forward on her own. Or even better, if she had reported Uncle Thomas way back when he first got out of line. <br />Passionate and informed, Cleage has firm opinions on everything, and while I might not always agree with her position, I do admire her zeal. And just because you don't agree with someone that doesn't preclude you from learning something from her. This book will make you rethink some things about your own thought process and values, and for that I am grateful. After all, it is challenge that leads to growth.	2002-08-25
US	50351179	R2VTAPUT55W12H	0425183432	717731358	Troublemaker and Other Saints	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Wonderfully complex characters	Though this is a collection of short stories, the author manages to create some complex characters within the tales of life among a group of Asian Americans. Far from the mawkish fare derided by some other reviewers, I found Chiu's prose to be efficient and interesting. Sure, she does use a fair amount of patois in the dialogue of some of the older characters who struggle with the English language, but it isn't obnoxious. The author skillfully introduces characters as a minor part of one story and then builds on that character in a succeeding chapter. Ms. Chiu provides a window on the experiences of a group of people that may not be representative of the entire Asian American experience, which was probably not her goal anyways, but it does shed light on some of the problems universal to those outside of the mainstream. Identity crises, ghettoization, self-hate, violence are all laid bare for the reader to experience through the eyes of these characters. However I wasn't searching for any deeper meaning in this work; I accepted for what it was -- good fiction.<br />There were some unanswered questions that left holes in some of the stories. Just how did the golden child Georgianna wind up married to a Black man? Was she just being rebellious or did she love him? With the gay characters (there are two), how did they come out to their families? And as for the girl who isn't into Asian men -- what happened to make her that way? Surely she wasn't born with an aversion to her own kind. I realize that the constraints of the short story form prevent any in-depth treatment of those questions, but just a few sentences of background could have cleared those things up. Then again, maybe those were deliberate omissions to lend a bit of mystery to the characters. Still, I thought this was a very good read.	2002-08-13
US	50351179	R1QQTF7DSJB192	0395661145	550897847	Smart Exercise: Burning Fat, Getting Fit	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Solid, accessible information	This book is for anyone who wants to get in shape permanently and learn about the theories underlying different workouts. With Covert Bailey's help, you will be able to design a program based on your goals without having to hire a personal trainer. Not that I have anything against trainers, but I am not a fan of paying people do what I can easily do for myself. Also, personal trainers will often just tell you to do x, y and z without ever explaining WHY you should do it or why a particular workout is the most effective. After reading this book, I incorporated wind sprints into my training instead of just plodding along at the same pace for the duration of my run. Following his advice, I concentrated on running faster for a set period of time --not necessarily at top speed -- and then slowing down, hence forcing my body to learn to recover under stress and increasing my fitness level in a shorter amount of time. I now understand why you are burning sugar and not fat if you are exercising to the point that you are out of breath and why your body produces lactic acid when you tax it. I am not saying that I could now go out and teach a course on biochemistry, but I've been able to use the information to work smarter in the gym. And that was the whole point of my reading this book.<br />The author does get a little technical in some parts, particularly in the discussions about Krebs Cycle and ATP, but you don't have to get bogged down in every little detail to be able to make this book work. If you can just grasp the basics of what he is saying, you will be far ahead of the average exerciser. The best thing that I took away from this book is the understanding that the benefits of exercise occur not just during the actual activity, but also in the aftermath while your body is recovering. You may only burn 350 calories during a workout, but you will also change your metabolism. Not bad for a 30-minute investment of time.<br />Thank you Covert Bailey!! I've been recommending this book to all my friends and family who are trying to get in shape.ng this book to all my friends and family who are trying to get in shape.	2002-08-07
US	50351179	R1Z6UGPNH2X7T1	0810981289	161708510	Harlem Renaissance: Art of Black America	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	A wonderful overview.	This is a very nice looking book that not only provides context about the Harlem Renaissance and the proliferation of Black artists during the 20's and 30's, but it also includes many reproductions of some of the period's most representative works. From the cover photo which is a copy William Johnson's \\"Boy in a Vest,\\" to the James VanDerZee's striking black and white photography, to the sculptures of Meta Warwick, the reader is treated to many examples of the visual arts. There are also essays and poems by the Countee Cullen and other writers of the time. This is a good introduction to the period and is suitable for children and young adults. And old adults too for that matter!	2002-08-05
US	50351179	RGCJSN30W75EY	0451527526	453970176	Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl (Signet Classics)	Books	4	156	161	N	N	Poignant	This autobiographical condemnation of the south's Peculiar Institution puts a face on the suffering of the enslaved. American history is full of accounts of slavery which tend to broad overviews of the institution, whereas this book is written by an escaped slave who does not flinch at sharing every detail of her miserable life. Unlike other narratives which distorted the slave's voice through the perspective of the interviewers/authors who were notorious for exaggerating the uneducated slaves' broken english, this book is largely Ms. Jacobs' own words. She was taught to read and write as a child by a kind mistress, so she was able to put her thoughts on paper with clarity that surprised many. Ms. Jacobs had an editor, but this book seems to be her unfiltered view of the world.<br />It is one thing to hear about how slaveholders took liberties with female slaves, it is quite another to read in stark detail about women being commanded to lay down in fields, young girls being seduced and impregnated and their offspring sold to rid the slaveholder of the evidence of his licentiousness. The author talks about jealous white women, enraged by their husbands' behavior, taking it out on the hapless slaves. The white women were seen as ladies, delicate creatures prone to fainting spells and hissy fits whereas the Black women were beasts of burden, objects of lust and contempt simultaneously. Some slave women resisted these lustful swine and were beaten badly because of it. It was quite a conundrum. To be sure, white women suffered under this disgusting system too, though not to the same degree as the female slaves who had no one to protect them and their virtue. Even the notion of a slave having virtue is mocked. The author rejected the slaveholder's advances and dared to hope that she would be allowed to marry a free black man who loved and respected her. Not only was she not allowed to marry him, she was forbidden to see him or speak to him again.<br />The author shows us the depth of a mother's love as she suffers mightily to see that her children are not also brought under the yoke of slavery. Though she was able to elude her odious master, she does take up with some other white man in hopes that he would be able to buy her freedom. Her \\"owner\\" refuses to sell her and tells her that she and her children are the property of his minor daughter. Her lover seems kind enough as he claims his children and offers to give them his name, and he did eventually buy them, though he failed to emancipate them to spare them from a life of forced servitude. Ms. Jacobs noted that slavery taught her not to trust the promises of white men. Having lived in town most of her life, Ms. Jacobs is sent to the plantation of her master's cruel son to broken in after she continues to refuses his sexual advances. She is resigned to this fate until she learns that her children -- who were never treated like slaves -- were to be brought to the plantation also. It is then that she takes flight.<br />After enduring 7-years of confinement in cramped quarters under the roof of her grandmother's house, the author escapes to the North which is not quite the haven she imagined. Still, it is better than the south, and she makes friends who buy her freedom leaving her both relieved and bitter that she is still seen as property to be bought and sold like livestock. In New York Ms. Jacobs is reunited with her children and a beloved brother who'd escaped a few years ago while accompanying his master -- her former lover -- to the free states.<br />There is no fairytale ending to this story because the author endures plenty of abuse and uncertainty even after she makes it to the North. She is hunted down by the relentless slaveowners who were aided by the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 and \\"The bloodhounds of the North.\\" This is a wrenching account of this shameful period of American history, and should be required reading for all.h of a mother's love as she suffers mightily to see that her children are not also brought under the yoke of slavery. Though she was able to elude her odious master, she does take up with some other white man in hopes that he would be able to buy her freedom. Her \\"owner\\" refuses to sell her and tells her that she and her children are the property of his minor daughter. Her lover seems kind enough as he claims his children and offers to give them his name, and he did eventually buy them, though he failed to emancipate them to spare them from a life of forced servitude. Ms. Jacobs noted that slavery taught her not to trust the promises of white men. Having lived in town most of her life, Ms. Jacobs is sent to the plantation of her master's cruel son to broken in after she continues to refuses his sexual advances. She is resigned to this fate until she learns that her children -- who were never treated like slaves -- were to be brought to the plantation also. It is then that she takes flight.  After enduring 7-years of confinement in cramped quarters under the roof of her grandmother's house, the author escapes to the North which is not quite the haven she imagined. Still, it is better than the south, and she makes friends who buy her freedom leaving her both relieved and bitter that she is still seen as property to be bought and sold like livestock. In New York Ms. Jacobs is reunited with her children and a beloved brother who'd escaped a few years ago while accompanying his master -- her former lover -- to the free states.  There is no fairytale ending to this story because the author endures plenty of abuse and uncertainty even after she makes it to the North. She is hunted down by the relentless slaveowners who were aided by the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 and \\"The bloodhounds of the North.\\" This is a wrenching account of this shameful period of American history, and should be required reading for all.	2002-04-01
US	50351179	R1OI0FRNOT4XWN	0345447786	12455236	Grown-A$$ Man	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A cute, humorous read	I received this book as a belated birthday gift from a friend. She and I have this running thing where we start off our gripes with the phrase \\"Look, I am a grown a$$ woman,\\" so this was the perfect gift for me. This book is semi-autobiographical as Ced intersperses his memories with bits from his comedy routines. Although I have heard all of the old jokes before, I still got a kick out of reading them in this book. I'm younger than Cedric, but I can relate to getting older and casting off certain behaviors that are a lot less cute once you turn 30. The way he figures it, being a grown a$$ man isn't just a catchphrase, it's a perspective. And I agree.<br />This book is basically an attempt to capitalize off of the success of \\"The Kings of Comedy\\" and doesn't really offer anything new or profound. Still, it's a pleasant diversion for those times when you just want to relax. I enjoyed his description of how he made his reputation as a claims adjuster at State Farm because he could speak Negro and regular english. This meant that he got all the difficult cases that no one else wanted to touch -- the Black folks and the people with expensive cars. Occasionally, he got the Black folks with the expensive cars, the double whammy! There is also plenty of nostalgia as Cedric reminisces about classic music: \\"Black folks used to have music that made you want to be nice to people,\\" and growing up back in the day.<br />I always wondered how he got his stage name and he explains that a poet, singer and dancer, he objected to being introduced simply as \\"the next comedian.\\" So an emcee began calling him Cedric The Entertainer, and it stuck.<br />This book is a quick read, and you can probably finish it in a few hours if you have a block of uninterrupted time. I mostly read it on the train, and I am sure that people were looking at me funny when I began laughing out loud when I got to this line about the size of the poultry at Church's Chicken. Cedric is definitely an entertainer.	2002-02-15
US	50351179	R9UQZFBHHJ17J	0740706098	281129523	Boondocks: Because I Know You Don't Read The Newspaper	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hip, irreverent and meaningful	Who would have thought that a cartoon strip about two little Black boys and their granddad would have done so well?  Aaron McGruder is not reinforcing stereotypes with this strip, he is poking fun at them. Does anyone actually believe that Riley (Esco, the baby thug) is supposed to be taken seriously? I was at the University of Maryland at the same time as the author when his strip appeared daily in The Diamondback, the student newspaper. I am proud of his success because the strip is contemporary and challenging. Heck, anyone who wages war on BET and the horrible images it propagates is alright with me.<br />I'm from Brooklyn and was raised on hip hop, so I get all the cultural references from Raekwon the Chef, the big ups and all the other stuff that might go over the heads of those looking in from the outside. I can see how some might not quite get it, but I fail to see how folks jump to the conclusion that this is a negative strip. McGruder is just using humor to address serious issues.	2001-08-16
US	50351179	R3KZ6A0S32QQQ6	1567430333	12395602	Essence Brings You Great Cooking	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Get this book!	This is the book that made my reputation as a good cook. I had recently moved and was looking for some fun stuff to make for an impromptu summer housewarming party, so I turned to Essence. I have always loved carribbean food, so I opted for the jerk chicken, rice and peas and ratatouille. Boy were my guests impressed! Okay, so the chicken was a bit hot and a few folks were gulping down water between bites, but that jerk chicken was pretty authentic for a yankee gal. lol. Even folks who do not like okra were loving that ratatouille. That is a great vegetable dish and it went beautifully with the chicken.<br />This is a good all around cookbook because the author presents recipes from different segments of the diaspora. There is of course plenty of soul food represented here, but there are also caribbean dishes and maybe even an African inspired dish or two.<br />Nash, long-time food editor for Essence Magazine, does a good job in presenting straightforward recipes and techniques. There is even a section on how to set up a kitchen for all those who may be just setting up house. I especially like the fact that she has revised many classic recipes using less fat and salt. I don't eat pork, so I have no problem doing with out the salt pork, hamhocks and the like.<br />Use this book and you too will be known as a good cook.	2001-07-31
US	50351179	RTRV7AP6BWH35	0060187166	38476954	Soul Food: Recipes and Reflections from African-American Churches	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Well done (no pun intended!)	This is a really practical book full of easily followed recipes, anecdotes and pictures. Those of us raised in the church know about the important role of those manning the pots. Not just anyone got to serve on the kitchen committee. No indeed. Only those accomplished cooks who knew how to &quot;put their foot in it,&quot; were allowed to toil most church kitchens. I am glad to see that this author has drawn on the wisdom of these faithful chefs and was able to get them to share their recipes.<br />I love to cook whenever we have big family gathering because we're all so busy now and spread out all over the East Coast. We don't always have the time to prepare these types of meals for ourselves on a regular basis, but for special occasions, this is one of my favorite books. I especially like the wheat bread recipe. One day when I'm feeling bold, I will move on the dinner rolls and angel biscuits.<br />I enjoyed looking at the black and white pictures showing the cooks working and the parishoners enjoying the food. There is a lot of history in this book. You might just want to order two copies -- one for the kitchen and another for the coffee table.	2001-07-31
US	50351179	R1QGSPOTUOMQQL	1573221252	815018494	The Courage to Be Rich: Creating a Life of Material and Spiritual Abundance	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Odd title, great advice	The title of this book caught my eye because I immediately wondered, &quot;What in the world does courage have to do with accruing wealth?&quot; Well, Suze explains all that in this book which covers the basics of financial planning and debt management. It takes courage to confront the reality of your life -- what you have, what you owe and the eventual reality of what happens if you continue to make bad financial decisions. While it is true that much of what's in this book is really basic, the author's approach is what distinguished this work from the primers on personal finance. Most financial planners will just deal with the black and white issues of debt and assets, but Suze gets to the root of why you handle your money the way that you do.<br />I agree with her people have emotional issues with their money. I know many folks try to use their money -- or even worse, credit -- to say things about themselves that are not true. Heck, I used to do it too, but I learned that it is better to save and invest my money than to have the latest hot accessory, electronic gadget or luxury car. Yeah all this may seem elementary to some folks, but not all of us were taught the basics of money management. If you don't come from a home where this is taught, you have no choice but to learn it on the fly. Or if you're lucky, you can pick up this book and save yourself some grief.<br />About the best thing that I learned from this book is to not value things over money. Suze says the pecking order should be: people first, then money and finally things.<br />The value of this book is that it gets the reader to address their attitudes about money, a very touch subject. If you are looking for some sophisticated advice about investments or personalized treatment, then you are better off consulting a professional one-on-one. But for those who need an attitude adjustment and some motivation to get it together, this book is it.	2001-07-06
US	50351179	R91UM62UWTNYX	1573228516	969488367	Black Girl in Paris	Books	2	17	23	N	N	Uneven and trite	I wanted to like this book, really I did, but it was just too circuitous. Not only that, I never really got a feel for the protoganist. We know that Eden is an orphan and an aspiring writer. We see that she really admires James Baldwin to the point that she seems to want to recreate his experience, but what of Eden the young woman? She just seems confused to me -- about life, her sexuality and whether she really wants to or can be a writer. We see more of Eden working her odd jobs than writing. One of the more offensive scenes occurs when she's working as a poet's helper and is giving her disabled client a bath. What was the point of us learning that Eden allowed the old lady to get her rocks off while she washed between her legs? How did that advance the story?<br />Too much of this story seems cliche. Eden is a struggling artist trying to eke out a living in Paris surrounded by a cast of nationalists, philosphopers and debauchees. Parts of the novel are interesting, particularly the portions dealing with the constant threat of terrorism and the resulting xenophobia, but there was too much that was just silly and unrealistic. Eden conveniently manages to befriend people who can put her up and feed her when she's broke. First it's a young french woman she meets on the plane, then it's an old (and similarly broke) ex patriate who lives off friends and strangers, then a odd bajan woman with whom Eden falls in love.<br />I was determined to finish this book because I kept hoping that it would get eventually get better. It didn't, and I doubt that I'll try this author again. I'm no fan of the &quot;Waiting to Exhale&quot; genre, but at least those stories tend to have a plot and a sequence of events that you can follow. And those lists -- 7 rules for living, How to be a Poet's Helper etc., were really tiresome.	2001-02-27
US	50351179	R3F688SHDY3LRC	0440235006	930332930	What a Woman's Gotta Do	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not what I expected, but very interesting	Though it appears at first glance to be another relationship novel, this book is actually a sci-fi thriller. This genre never really appealed to me, but I enjoyed this book nontheless. The heroine is so scrappy and tough that you just have to love her. Patricia Conley is a female black belt who is kicking azz and taking names on her quest to get to the root of what happened to her fiance -- a descendent of the Dogon tribe who had been part of nefarious eugenics experiment. Things are never what they seem in this tale, and there are many subplots. One of the previous reviewers complained that the heroine was unrealistic, but such is the nature of sci-fi. You have to be willing to suspend the natural instinct toward disbelief or you won't be able to get into the story. I had an easier time accepting Conley's disguises than I did the visions of the Dogon elder and his shack.<br />The book is long, but there is plenty action and suspense to keep the story moving along at a good pace. Coleman's scientific research is reflected the depth of this metaphysical tale, and her thank yous include some of the authors cited in the story. I read the whole book in one day while I was stuck in the beauty parlor. When I was done, I had a head full of micro braids and a new author to watch.	2001-01-05
US	50351179	R5YZ3UIY1UKHO	0882890190	345409745	The Justin Wilson Cook Book	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Excellent, I garontee!!	This book a primer on New Orleans cuisine ala Justin Wilson. I remember his cooking show and always got a kick out of how he would pour a little wine in his pots and drink the rest. You could see that this man enjoyed food, and this translates into his book. I credit Mr. Wilson with teaching me how to make a decent roux because before I read his recipe, I always used butter or vegetable oil. Hey, I'm from Brooklyn, what did I know from a roux? The olive oil made a huge difference in my gumbo. I was even inspired to try jambalaya -- it was yummy!!<br />On a past trip to New Orleans, I purchased one of the Junior League Cookbooks which has an abundance of recipes and tips. However, the other book relies on a lot of processed and prepared ingredients. Those recipes are also a lot fussier. I prefer Wilson's cookbook for its simplicity. He also includes plenty of local color and anecdotes.	2001-01-03
US	50351179	R5CFJG183O05N	0060984422	892476030	Consuming Passions: A Food-Obsessed Life	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A shared obsession	I too am a foodie with an assortment of odd relatives, and I found this tome of family and food to be truly delightful. Until I read this book, I thought for sure that my family had the market cornered on odd characters and food fixations. Charming, hilarious, and occasionally over-the-top, West's characters leap off the pages and even swing from chandeliers. I have yet to try any of the recipes, but I enjoyed reading axioms such as &quot;Live and learn. Die and get food. That's the southern way.&quot;<br />The women in chronicled in these pages are old-fashioned southern cooks. They believed in cooking feasts for their families and keeping their recipes close to their vests. During one funeral a prominent character, Aunt Dell, was seen wailing and weeping over the loss, not of the relative, but of the gingerbread recipe that the deceased had apparently taken to her grave.<br />This book is both funny and instructive with recipes that seem easy to follow. For Christmas, I gave a copy to my sister who made &quot;Miss Johnny's Macaroni and Cheese.&quot; I didn't have any, but she seemed pleased with the outcome. West includes all the staples -- sweet tea, pineaple cake and gumbo. She dedicates an entire chapter to fried chicken &quot;Fear of Frying,&quot; where she lays out her concerns about the attendant burns and grease fires. In this chapter, her mother recounts burns like battle scars citing the meal and the year during which they were acquired.<br />I enjoyed this author's style and plan to purchase more of her work.	2001-01-02
US	50351179	R2W3G5EB31PWUP	0385314388	706433545	Motherless Daughters: The Legacy of Loss	Books	4	63	65	N	N	Excellent treatment of a very personal situation	I lost my mother when I was just 13 years old and although it's been 16 years, I still feel the loss every day. Like the author, I had an overwhelming sense of grief in my mid-twenties. I mean it was like I was newly bereaved again. I would come home and cry. Or I would dream about her for consecutive nights. I am so glad that Ms. Edelmen took on this topic. Intellectually, I knew that I wasn't alone, but I am the only one in my immediate circle of friends whose mother is deceased so that makes for awkward moments on Mother's day and other holidays. Of course the sympathetic ones want to be a sort of replacement, but that's not what I want. I want my actual mother, my nurturer and my friend. It's so hard to explain to someone who hasn't experienced this loss, especially since I am an adult now. I remember that shortly after mom passed some callous relative actually had the nerve to tell me, &quot;Life goes on.&quot; As if I didn't know that already. As if it were that simple.<br />Thank you Hope, for helping us motherless daughters understand that the impact of this loss can be lifelong. I've long suspected that the absence of my mother has affected my intimate relationships and even my relationships with other females. It's one thing to feel something intuitively and quite another to see that someone else has not only felt that same way, but has researched it. I'm still reading this book, but I felt so strongly about it that offer up my heartfelt thanks right now. This book is a blessing, and not just for daughter whose mothers are deceased. Hope also addresses women who have been abandoned ny their mothers and those who have never known their mothers.	2000-11-08
US	50351179	R1XAOXA8HOB50A	0451188039	551105176	Friends and Lovers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A riveting love story	I liked this book much better than the author's first effort, &quot;Sister, Sister&quot; mainly because there was more balance among the characters. In Debra, at last we see Mr. Dickey create a normal, likeable female character instead of his usual shrews and witches. Not to say that there are not some horrible women in this book, there certainly are, but at least Dickey made the effort to give us a sane female character. There is finally someone for which you can root.<br />This is the story of two female best friends falling in love with two male best friends. Debra &amp; Leonard and Shelby &amp; Tyrel. It can be difficult when one set of friends gets involved with another set of friends because if things don't work out you have to choose. And the author provides some realistic examples of that situation.<br />I enjoyed this book because it's not one of those fairytale love stories. Making a relationship work is tough, and we glimpse some of that in this book when two of the characters move in together and try to peacefully co-exist. This book shows how misunderstandings can be amplified and can  completely transform our lives because there is one simple exchange that sets in motion the unraveling of Tyrel and Shelby's romance.<br />Tyrel was an interesting character. On the surface, he seems like a heartless womanizer but later on in the story we see that he is using these women (&quot;the transitional team&quot;) to try to fill a void in his life. I could definitely relate when he said that he never expected to have to keep starting over in his relationships when he was 30. In a real relationship rather than one of his hit and runs, Tyrel was romantic and thoughtful. He made up little poems with his girlfriend's name and left notes in her purse. And later on he tells her that he would always love her even after she married another man. Shelby was rude and brash and worst of all, she lead another man on when she knew that she didn't want him.<br />My one complaint about this book, and the reason why I didn't give it 5 stars, is the author's failure to provide a better sense of chronology. We jump from Debra and Leonard getting engaged before his career took off and then next thing you know they're married and he's a major star. Then Tyrel and Shelby jump from casual dating to shacking up. And later I had no idea about how long the couple had been apart before they reunite under tragic circumstances. I couldn't tell how long the lapses in time were supposed to have been -- months or years.<br />But on the whole this was a very good book, and I enjoyed every word. I've read 4 of Dickey's books so far. This one and &quot;Cheaters&quot; are my favorites.int about this book, and the reason why I didn't give it 5 stars, is the author's failure to provide a better sense of chronology. We jump from Debra and Leonard getting engaged before his career took off and then next thing you know they're married and he's a major star. Then Tyrel and Shelby jump from casual dating to shacking up. And later I had no idea about how long the couple had been apart before they reunite under tragic circumstances. I couldn't tell how long the lapses in time were supposed to have been -- months or years.<br />But on the whole this was a very good book, and I enjoyed every word. I've read 4 of Dickey's books so far. This one and &quot;Cheaters&quot; are my favorites.	2000-10-10
US	50351179	R2WBPIF1LYC65I	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Real Roller Coaster	This author has carved out a niche for himself in writing about  relationships, often bad ones. The central relationship in this book,  between Vincent and Dana, is fraught with drama and is seems doomed from  the start. He lies about being divorced with a child. She covers up the  fact that she is broke and still in love with the man whose actions lead to  her declaring bankruptcy. Their differences seem insurmoutable and provide  quite a bit of tension. Throughout the book, you just want them to throw in  the towel already.<br />Although I enjoyed this book, I found it unrealistic.  Taken as just entertainment it hits the mark squarely. But anyone looking  for any deeper meaning or commentary on the state of relations between men  and women may find it lacking. True, the dating scene is often a  &quot;Liar's Game&quot; as folks with major issues lie and withhold  information to make themselves more attractive; however, I don't see folks  with this type of baggage making a long-term relationship work.<br />Dana is  manipulative, bossy and volatile. She also has a nasty little habit of  licking Vince's gum before putting it in his mouth. That really annoyed me.  Vince is weak and lacks direction.  He's stuck in a dead-end job, in a  crummy apartment, pining away for an ex-wife who never loved him and a  child that he is not allowed to see.<br />The not-so-happy couple is  surrounded by other troubled couples --  the feuding lesbians across the  hall, Dana's friend Gerri and her young stud and Vince's Jehri curl-wearing  pal Womack and his wife. These subplots allow the writer to explore class  issues and formerly taboo topics. Dickey provides an interesting treatment  of those issues though it does have the feel of a tabloid.<br />For this  genre, this book is pretty good. I would however like to see Mr. Dickey  expand his horizons and tackle something other than dysfunctional  relationships. Also, it would be great if he could for once include a  normal, likeable female character.female character.	2000-08-28
US	50351179	R3TJ6JJZFLZU2B	0156101505	189354970	Baby of the Family (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Great Characters!	I like this quaint little town of Mulberry and its cast of characters.  This book is about Lena, the baby of the McPherson family, and her  supernatural gifts. Lena was born with a caul over her face. Because her  mother didn't believe in superstition, she did not follow the rituals or  dispose of the caul properly. Hence, Lena is plagued by ghosts and demons.<br />I picked this book up after reading about Mudear and the hilarious  characters of Mulberry in &quot;Ugly Ways.&quot; This author's forte is  writing about families with all their flaws and idiosyncrasies. Unlike the  ornery Mudear, the mother in this book is loving, and indulgent, even if  she is a little high strung. One of my favorite scenes in this book is when  she tells her hyper children that they were making her very azzhole quiver.  You have to read that in context to get it. I also liked how the patriarch  of the family, Jonah McPherson, was a shrewd businessman. He owned  &quot;The Place&quot; -- the local watering hole -- and a couple of other  businesses.<br />I'm the youngest of a southern family, so I could relate to a  lot of this book. The baby of the family definitely occupies a prized  position in the household. And let's face it, most of our older relatives  still hold on to some superstitions.<br />This was a very good book. I passed  it along to my sisters, and they enjoyed it as much as I did.	2000-08-05
US	50351179	RJIT5EALOTF3L	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ice Cold	[...]This book was excellent, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. Ipurchased it on the recommendation of someone I met at a bookstore. Otherwise, I'd have passed it up because I was never a fan of Sister Souljah's. Winter Santiaga, daughter of a drug kingpin, is the ultimate ghetto fabulous princess -- materialistic, ruthless and selfish.  This book delves into that lifestyle without glamourizing it. I actually felt sorry for Winter and her clan because I knew where they were headed.<br />The only other comparable book that revisits the coming of age of a &quot;Flyy Girl,&quot; is Omar Tyree's book of the same title; however, Winter Santiaga makes Tracy Ellison look like a lightweight. Tracy is a little spoiled, upper middle class girl from the suburbs. Winter is from the mean streets of Brooklyn where drug money flows like water. Hell, she doesn't even go to school! But like Tracy, Winter in the end realizes that her lifestyle was destructive.<br />This book is graphic in its exploration of the pursuit of easy money and the fast life. The young girls barter sex for clothes and money while the young men ply the drug trade to finance their cars and women. I thought it was interesting how the author included a minor male character who sometimes received fellatio from his strung out male customers. It just shows another side of that seedy life.<br />The author did a good job with her character development, particularly with Winter, her mother and Midnight. The mother is such a tragic figure! Even though she was really vain and arrogant in the beginning ( A self-proclaimed &quot;bad b!tch&quot;), I hated to see her come to such an end.<br />This is a solid read. I can't wait for more fiction from Sister Souljah.	2000-08-02
US	50351179	R2KLYEZDN0NWDT	0553576313	682460462	If I Should Die (Mali Anderson Mystery)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well Done	This book was my introduction to the Mali Anderson series, and I was  impressed. The lead character is smart, tough and a loving daughter and aunt. Like Valerie Wesley Wilson's Tamara Hayle, Mali is also a former cop.  But unlike Hayle, who is based in New Jersey, Anderson is not a formal PI.  She's just trying to get some answers.<br />Set on the mean streets of Harlem,  this is a fast-paced contemporary mystery that engages the reader. Anderson  is a complex character who is fraught by all types of demons -- harassment  stemming from a lawsuit against the NYPD, the brutal death of her only  sister and its impact on her nephew, and her feelings for the gorgeous  detective Tad Honeywell.<br />The bad guys are all delightfully vile, an array  of drug dealers, petty thieves and thugs. As a native New Yorker, I got a  kick out her descriptions of Mayor Giuliani (whom she doesn't mention by  name) when he was the D.A. I remember when he lead a mob of police officers  in a disrespectful rally outside Gracie Mansion when Dinkins was mayor.<br />Her description of &quot;The Inferno&quot; reminded me of that scene in  Jungle Fever where Spike Lee recreated a crack house. It was graphic and  palpable. My only gripe with the book is that the ending seems a little  abrupt. Edwards did a good job with the build-up, dropping clues here and  there, but the resolution seemed a little rushed.<br />Overall, I was  satisfied with this book and plan to buy more of this series.	2000-08-01
US	50351179	R1OQXZZRG8X9P6	0198602987	57723148	Take Off in French (With Audio CDs)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	Magnifique!	I'm preparing for my first trip to Paris and thought it would be a good idea to at least learn the basics of French. This course is concise, simple and allows you to work at your own pace. After the first couple of exercises I was able to master some basic greetings, and learned quite a  bit about pronunciation. Most importantly, I am building my confidence in  my ability communicate in the language. The instructor encourages students  to practice out loud. I'm sure I must look odd, walking around muttering  french phrases under my breath, but it will all be worth it when I can go  to Paris and converse with the locals.<br />The price is excellent because you  get 5 CDs and a book for less [money].	2000-07-22
US	50351179	R3RSB95H6L09Z2	0385491492	446505608	Brothers, Lust, and Love (Revised and Expanded Edition): Thoughts on Manhood, Sex, and Romance	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Very interesting	I'm always trying to figure out how men think, so I knew I had to read this book. Like the better-known Michael Baisden, July started off as a self-published writer, but this author is more polished.<br />The author  tackles some weighty issues, animosity between Black men and women,  interracial dating and stereotypes. I enjoyed the questions included at the  end of each chapter to prompt discussion.<br />I really got a kick out his  analysis of the lines that men use to approach women. Some of his  categories are originality and &quot;digitability.&quot; This part of the  book interested me the most because I have certainly heard my share of weak  lines. July even suggests some comebacks for the hisses, whistles and  vulgarity that some of us are subjected to on a daily basis.<br />This is not  a book that points the finger of blame soley at either sex. It simply lays  out the landscape of the dating scene and shows how men and women sometimes  relate (or fail to relate) to each other.	2000-07-02
US	50351179	R1COUIOSBU6YDI	0451194071	858784351	Cheaters	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I loved it!	This book is not what I expected, it was better. It was so good that I didn't want it to end! Dickey is an excellent storyteller and he wove a seamless tale of friendship, heartache, and conflicted emotions -- the  stuff of real life interpersonal relationships. In this cast of characters,  the author has included a couple of &quot;dogs&quot;, a vamp, a nag, a  wannabe militant, a frustrated lawyer/writer and an artsy tpe.<br />I enjoyed  this book a lot more than &quot;Sister, Sister&quot; because the characters  are more sympathetic. I also liked the fact that the author didn't come up  with fairy tale ending. He spins an interesting tale about folks looking  for love (or lust) and the consequences of of bad choices.	2000-06-21
US	50351179	R2OPYJON64SFVC	0964367513	365114013	Men Cry in the Dark	Books	2	2	2	N	N	I'm glad I waited for the paperback	I give the author credit for coming up with an interesting premise -- the relationship between three 30-something upper middle class Black males and their day-to-day struggles. I even liked how the lead character left a  cushy job at a big company to pursue entrepreneurship. But the lapses in  the storyline and the numerous grammatical errors are distracting. And even  though most of the affluent Black folks I know do NOT carry on the way  these characters did in this book, I think I know what he was trying to do.  It seems like he was trying to present an image of successful people who  remained down-to-earth. Still, this book fell far short of my expectations  and all of the hype. The elements of good fiction are a compelling story,  multifaceted characters, and prose that flows. This book didn't have any of  that.	2000-06-15
US	50351179	R2EU9V7YLVJHDH	068486424X	977174450	Yesterday I Cried: Celebrating the Lessons of Living and Loving	Books	4	69	70	N	N	Wonderfully instructive	It took me a while to finish this book because of its sheer emotional impact. It starts with a wonderful poem that describes the shedding tears that had long been held back. Iyanla lays herself bare before her readers  and revisits her coming of age. With the harsh life that this woman endured  -- sexual abuse, teen pregnancy, spousal abuse, poverty -- it is amazing  that she emerged with her sanity, let alone the ability to minister to  others.<br />The author draws upon her experiences to show her audience how to  look for lessons in life's unpleasantness. She showed us how her upbringing  caused her to internalize some damaging messages from her cruel  grandmother, absentee father and an array of abusive lovers. The author  explains her transformation from the much-abused Rhonda, to Iyanla the  Yoruba Priestess and acclaimed author. And she does it in such a way that  the readers know that they too can transcend their circumstances.<br />I found  myself in tears a couple of times while reading this book. Tears may  sometimes be viewed as a sign of weakness, but this is a tome about  strength and courage. I applaud Iyanla's courage and thank her for sharing  her wisdom.	2000-06-15
US	50351179	R17K81SKSB05JF	096436753X	885388260	The Maintenance Man	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not great	Although I'd already read &quot;Men Cry in the Dark&quot; andwas plenty disappointed, I like to support... authors... The authorwas there participating on a literary panel with Omar Tyree and one other author whose name I can't remember. Michael Baisden is charismatic and an engaging public speaker, but his fiction leaves much to be desired.<br />Baisden has an interesting perspective, but his character development is flat, and the dialogue seems rather fake and trite. There is not one single person to like in this book.  Malcolm is a gigolo, Simon is a wimp, Ariel is neurotic and desperate, and Teddy is utterly despicable. Toni is fairly decent, but she's not a major character.<br />Also, I find it completely unlikely that Malcolm was able to keep his cover for so long. As long as he'd been tricking, it seems like more folks would have known.	2000-06-13
US	50351179	R2NL8RTVCEUZNR	0060924756	663389488	The Best Kind of Loving: A Black Woman's Guide to Finding Intimacy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent reference	Essence Magazine's long-time advice columnist Dr. Gwendolyn Goldsby Grant counsels Black women on everything from finances to relationships in this book. This book offers the type of sound, no-nonsense advice you might  expect to hear from your mother -- especially when she advises us not to  make decisions while lying our backs!<br />She encourages readers to examine  their lives truthfully and to try to understand the motivation for the  decisions that we make. The discussion about finances talks about how we  sometimes spend money that we don't have to bolster our flagging spirits.<br />The greatest lesson I took from the book is the  importance of putting  all relationships, not just romantic ones, into perspective. This book  explains the importance of establishing and maintaning good relationships  with our creator, ourselves, family members and significant others. This  book is a classic and belongs in the library of any woman trying to make  her way in this world.	2000-06-05
US	50351179	R2YLKMKDM3PUDC	0964367580	657596427	Never Satisfied: How & Why Men Cheat	Books	3	50	51	N	N	Interesting and sad	I bought this book last year in my ongoing attempt to understand the workings of the male mind. As I read the stories of the men interviewed for this book, I couldn't help but wonder why these men chose to put so much  time and effort into being trifling. They concocted some really elaborate  schemes to cover up their chicks on the side. I mean really, wouldn't have  just been easier to remain single and unattached?<br />I have seen Mr. Baisden  in person and heard him on the radio, and he is a dynamic speaker.<br />I  appreciated how this book examined infidelity from the perspective of the  cheating male. That's not something I've seen in print before. It  definitely gave me some things to thing about it.<br />I've loaned this book  to a couple of friends and we've all had pretty similar reactions. Mr.  Baisden may not be a formal social scientist, but I enjoyed reading his  anecdotes and observations nontheless. Sometimes, authors can become so  steeped in academia that they lose the common touch. While this book is not  likely to garner any awards, it's a worthwhile read for women, like me, who  sometimes wonder what makes men do the things that they do.	2000-06-01
US	50351179	RDRVCHQYZSNN7	038072491X	951737072	When Death Comes Stealing (Tamara Hayle Mysteries)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A great debut	I was never interested mysteries - they seemed kind of male domintated, but this novel made me a fan of the genre. I have since picked up a couple of titles by Walter Mosley who is in a class by himself. Both authors use  urban settings for their tales and employ a rich cast of characters. Wesley  may not have created an outrageous sidekick like the quick-tempered Mouse,  but she has plenty of drama in this novel.<br />This debut of the Tamara Hayle  series made me take note because I hadn't heard much about female  private  investigators. My interest was immediately piqued. The lead character is  likeable and realistic. The dialogue and action are engaging and maintain  the pace of the storyline nicely.<br />What I liked most about Tamara's  character are her independence and pragmatism. Even though she really hates  her ex-husband DeWayne (she has every right to), she has no choice but to  help him figure out who is picking off his sons systematically. She is the  mother of his youngest child and knows that it's up to her to protect him.  She also had some feelings for one of the murdered boys because he came to  visit her son when he was an infant.<br />I was enthralled throughout the  entire book and each time I thought I figured out the killer's identity,  another piece of evidence appeared. The ending caught me completely off  guard.<br />I loaned this book to someone and never got it back, so I guess  I'm not the only one who enjoyed it.	2000-05-23
US	50351179	R3KDZ27MSA1DXK	0451188020	444873075	Sister, Sister	Books	2	8	8	N	N	I'm torn	On the one hand, this book is an undisputed page turner, and I couldn't wait to finish it. On the other hand, I didn't like the characters. I can't honestly say that I liked this book, but Dickey does a good job of  developing his characters. My problem with this book is that these women  are a little too over the top. Even meek and mild Valerie somehow morphs  into a character you might expect to see on The Jerry Springer Show.<br />The  3 perspective scheme of this book (Valerie, Chiquita, Inda) didn't work for  me at all. I also had a hard time accepting the relationship between Inda  and Chiquita.<br />I think the book overall could have used more depth. By  trying to detail the lives of all three women, I don't think the writer did  justice to any of them. This is a promising first effort though, and I'd be  willing to read another of Dickey's books.	2000-05-21
US	50351179	R201FZ63TTIE1A	0156000776	786090806	Ugly Ways	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Who doesn't have a Mudear in their life?	My own late mother was a sweetheart, but her evil sister that helped raise me was Mudear. She may not have been as extreme, but the orneriness, the cutting words, and complete oblivion to the pain she created was similar to  Tina McElroy Ansa's character's. And I know of plenty others like her --  mothers, grandmothers and stepmothers. When this book was first published  in 1993 there was all this discussion about how the author exploded the  myth of the selfless, loving Black matriarch. I don't kow that I agree with  all that, but Tina McElroy Ansa is one of my favorite authors, and I loved  this book.<br />This book was sad and funny. Some of Mudear's sayings had me  in tears! Who in the world would rear their girls with the axiom &quot;A  man don't give a damn about no woman&quot;?  Mudear even had the girls  repeat that to their father.<br />This book is about the relationship between  mothers and daughters. Not that Hallmark, sunshine and ice cream stuff, but  the sometimes bitter relationship between adult females and the woman who  shaped their lives. Gathering for a funeral is something we've all done.  That's the time for reminiscing. I enjoyed how the author used that  occasion as a vehicle for the Lovejoy girls to come to terms with their  mother who brought them neither love nor joy.	2000-05-11
US	50351179	R1JDDSV29T1D24	0684835665	709047711	Flyy Girl	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ahhh, Nostalgia	What a trip down memory lane! Once, I got over the initial shock of realizing that I'm old enough to be reading books about my teen years, I enjoyed this book.<br />It was a little long, but overall I felt it was worth  the time I invested in finishing it. I realize this book was about Tracy,  but I wish the author had spent a little more time dealing with her  parents' relationship. It was so undefined, especially when they have  another child after the father sets up a seperate household -- and doesn't  move back in. What in the world was going on?<br />Anyhow, I really liked this  book. I got a kick out of remembering the styles (gold bamboo hoops and  assymetrical hairdos) and slang of my youth. I will recommend it to my  16-year-old niece who is quite the &quot;Flyy Girl&quot; herself.<br />I look  forward to reading the sequel later this year.	2000-05-11
US	50351179	R32WINSENG9GNJ	0684846136	721800600	Li'l Mama's Rules: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Great Heroine	Madison Macguire is in many ways the representation of the modern African American woman. She's single, independent and tough. And although she would never admit it - she's also yearning for love. I connected with this  character. She's a lot like me. That whole father/daughter thing and  betrayal by a first love  brought back memories. The author does a good job  of setting up a framework so that the reader understands how Madison's  &quot;Rules&quot; evolved.<br />I enjoyed the way the author wrote about  Madison's relationship with her best friend Malik, who just happened to be  gay. He wasn't made into a caricature, but he was compassionate and loyal.  A friend.<br />Although I didn't like the fact that Madison was so  promiscuous, this trait allowed the author to delve into some serious  issues about the consequences of our behavior.<br />This was the first of  Sheneska Jackson's books that I've read. I was quite pleased with my  selection.	2000-05-11
US	50351179	R1K1VTQTTJNQPE	0451179730	696938965	Black Gold	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Excellent Historical Novel	I am a big fan of Anita Richmond Bunkley's work. Her attention to detail and character development are first rate.<br />Black Gold was enthralling because it had the classic elements of family, love, greed and betrayal.  Bunkley is a master storyteller and brings this novel full circle with a  bitter twist on the heroine's love affair.<br />I especially appreciated the  fact that the heroine, Lela, was not perfect. Although Lela was  maniuplative and driven, she was realistic. She was someone I could  imagine. I also enjoyed the treatment that Mrs. Bunkley provided for Carey,  who I found intriguing.<br />I've always loved romance novels, but I've moved  away from the fluffy beach reads and have embraced the more substantial  genre embodied by this novel.	2000-05-05
