US	50369929	R3ICDTFKJIOKL4	1560976470	429232388	The Complete Peanuts 1955-1956 (Vol. 3)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	28	29	N	Y	Another Great Volume in A Great Series	This book constitutes the third in a proposed 25 volume series setting out the entire history of the Peanuts comic strip (this book covers the years 1955 and 1956).  I have reviewed the first two books of the series and had nothing but great things to say about these books.  The presentation of this new volume is great as always (with a surprise of Pig Pen making the cover).  If you have read Peanuts strip books over the years, a lot more of these strips are going to be familiar to you than the previous two books as many of these strips have been published many times over the years.  But there are still plenty of strips that you probably haven't seen in this book that should bring a smile to your face. <br /> <br />You'll see in this book Linus mature from a toddler to the well-spoken and intelligent character he was for the strips 40+ remaining years.  Snoopy truly becomes \\"Snoopy\\" with his thought balloons and imagination taking over (the imitations of Violet, Lucy, a moose and Mickey Mouse are dead on).  Schroeder assumes the straight man role from Shermy, whose role is significantly reduced in these two years.  Lucy becomes the world champion fussbudget (with an impressive library of books on fussing for research).  Charlie Brown becomes Charlie Brownier as his losing ways magnify during this time (with the highlight being Lucy's first pulling of the football strip). <br /> <br />As with the previous volumes, there are some strips presented of lower quality due to the fact the publishers haven't been able to find good qulity strips for reproduction.  I can live with this so long as they have something. <br /> <br />My only complaint about the series is that two volumes a year just isn't fast enough!  That will mean the last volume will be published in the spring of 2016! <br /> <br />On a final note, to the first reviewer, I did read somewhere that there is a good chance there will be a box set that will contain this volume plus the fourth volume to be publishedin the fall, so keep checking Amazon (it isn't listed now).	2005-04-18
US	50369929	R400J8S5H07UX	0971633894	556667046	Its Only A Game	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Good To See Another of Sparky's Works	In late 1957, as he was beginning to see the success that his strip \\"Peanuts\\" was generating, Charles Schulz began another strip called \\"It's Only A Game\\", which was a strip geared for adults with primarily adult characters.  The strip ran for a little over a year in just a handful of newspapers (around 30, if I recall correctly).  Unlike his \\"Peanuts\\" work where he did not enlist the help of others, he did employ a friend of his from Minnesota named Jim Sasseville to collaborate on this new strip. Sasseville provides comments throughout this fairly small book about his experiences with Schulz and I think that you are left with the impression that Schulz quickly lost interest in the concept of \\"It's Only A Game\\" as he appeared to turn over most of the drawing and inking duties to Sasseville, with Schulz's major contribution being the strip ideas (with crude sketches).  Sasseville even seems to imply that he came up with some of the strip ideas as well (but always got Schulz' approval before submission). <br /> <br />The strips are a little more detailed than those from Peanuts.  The topics focus a lot on sports like bowling with the biggest focus on the card game Bridge (in fact, the word \\"Bridge\\" is placed in the corner of each of these particular strips to let the reader know what the heck the characters were talking about).  I have never played Bridge, so the lingo goes over my head. <br /> <br />I'm glad that the Schulz estate is allowing the release of these non-Peanuts related projects because it lets us see another side of Charles Schulz' creativity.  But \\"It's Only A Game\\" is not a remarkable collection as was the \\"Lil' Folks\\" collection that was released about a year ago, but it's fun to see nonetheless.	2004-12-21
US	50369929	R2DO471YGNE5QI	1560976144	382953419	The Complete Peanuts 1953-1954 (Vol. 2)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Another Winner In A Tremendous Series!	The second volume of the proposed 25 volume \\"Complete Peanuts\\" set contains all of the Peanuts strips from 1953 and 1954.  It continues the exploits of Charlie Brown, Snoopy, Lucy and Schroeder (the latter two have grown up quite a bit since the first volume from 1950 to 1952) as well as Linus, who although still a baby begins to show the intelligence that would be a large part of his personality for the life of the strip.  We see Pig-Pen introduced in this volume as well as what many Peanuts fans consider the \\"lost character\\", Charlotte Braun.  This character, who appeared for about a two-week stretch in late 1954 and was never heard from again had the fussbudget personality that was later assumed by Lucy.  Having only seen one strip with Charlotte before getting this book, I have to say that Charlotte was annoying in her short tenure in the strip and Charles Schulz probably knew it was best to cut his ties with the character.  But she still is a fascinating part of Peanuts history. <br /> <br />If you get this book, you will notice that the quality of the reproduction of some of the strips are less than average.  There is an explanation in the book that many of the early strips were lost from the Schulz collection and that there are not many copies of newspapers around to pull the strips from (their next best option) and that microfilm (where most newspapers are usually kept) is usually not acceptable for reproduction.  So for some strips, they used the best they had.  Sure, it would be nice to have pristine copies, but at least I'm glad something is there. <br /> <br />All-in-all, it is another masterpiece and I can't wait for the next volume, which will be the strips of 1955 and 1956!	2004-11-09
US	50369929	RD8PLCR7AP75V	1550226789	615286094	Contents Under Pressure: 30 Years of Rush at Home and Away	Books	4	52	54	N	Y	Insights Into A Private Band, But Far From Comprehensive	I've been a fan of Rush's music since the early 1980's, and have every one of their CDs.  However, I really don't know a whole lot about the band members as they have been extremely guarded about their life in and outside the band.  This book helps melt down that guard a little bit, but still does not provide a comprehensive look at Geddy Lee, Alex Lifeson and Neil Peart. <br /> <br />The book is structured by chapters, which each one representing one of the band's CDs (in chronological order, including the 4 live albums).  In that chapter, the band discusses their recollections about writing songs for the album, recording it (including gripes about several producers) and touring (with some anecdotes about their adventures with some of their support acts - or main acts (Kiss, Aerosmith) when they were just starting out.   <br /> <br />You'll learn a lot about how the band goes about their business (for example, for almost every album, they write one song quickly at the end of their recording sessions and it invariably makes the record and is one of their favorites), but if you are looking for stuff about the three guys' family life, you'll be disappointed.  I believe I remember one mention of Geddy's son and Alex briefly mentions that he is now a grandfather, but other than that, there isn't much about life outside the band (the death of Peart's wife and daughter within months of each other in the late 90s are mentioned, but other than a paragraph or two, are not discussed in detail). <br /> <br />So if you like Rush, get it for the novelty and the many great pictures.	2004-10-04
US	50369929	R28CKOV6JDF2L1	0744003806	598295526	Hot Shots Golf¿ Fore! Official Strategy Guide	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Very nice to look at, but very little to improve your game	I love Hot Shots Golf 3 and its successor, Hot Shots Golf Fore.  I'm pretty good at the game as I win a fair number of tournaments, but I can't seem to take it to the next level and get those -18 scores that you see people talking about on the net all the time (I still have yet to get a hole in one on either game, although I've been close many times).  So I picked up the strategy guide for Fore to see if it would help. <br /> <br />I have to say that the book is well made with lots of color on high quality paper, but the only thing that helped me here was some of the tips on how to play certain holes, especially the ones that gave me trouble.  Each of the game's courses (I believe there are 13 in this game) are layed out hole by hole and a startegy for playing each hole is given for both beginners and advanced players.  But what I would have liked to see was a listing as to which characters are best suited for a particular course and what is the best equipment (clubs and balls) for the course.  It wasn't a bad purchase, but I saw strategy guides on the net for HSG3 that were much more helpful.	2004-09-23
US	50369929	R1HA04W7IIAIE	0375411089	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Fast Moving Mystery That's Pure Hiaasen Hijinks	Carl Hiaasen previous two novels have been vastly different from his previous works. &quot;Hoot&quot; was a young adult novel and &quot;Basket Case&quot; was Hiaasen's foray into first-person story telling and also the first one without an environmental message. But he is back in usual form with &quot;Skinny Dip&quot;. <br />  <br /> &quot;Skinny Dip&quot; details the adventures of Chaz Perrone, who has dumped his rich wife Joey over the rail of a cruise ship on their 2nd anniversary. Unknown to Chaz, Joey survives and is rescued by Mick Stranahan, who was the protagonist in a Hiaasen novel written about 15 years ago called &quot;Skin Tight&quot;. What ensues is typical Hiaasen zaniness, which involves pythons, crosses memorializing loved ones, pain-killing medicine patches and lots of laughs. There's even an appearance by a character named &quot;The Captain&quot;, but if you've read his books before, you'll know him as the infamous Skink from &quot;Native Tongue&quot;, &quot;Stormy Weather&quot; and &quot;Sick Puppy&quot;. <br />  <br /> The environmental bent typical of Hiaasen's novels is again back as Chaz fixes environmental tests for a large Florida grower. I have written that Hiaasen has overused this angle, but I didn't mind it here. Hiaasen gets his point across without the use of a sledgehammer. <br />  <br /> The ending is a bit weird and if you have never read one of his books before, you may think they left out some pages. But if you have, it all makes sense. <br />  <br /> All and all, a good effort by the master of Florida fiction. <br />  <br />	2004-07-26
US	50369929	R3VSN7FMTBPW7X	0836204387	667860921	Calvin & Hobbes Books, Tenth Anniversary Book	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Great Insight Into Bill Watterson's Mind	Bill Watterson hasn't drawn Calvin and Hobbes in almost 10 years, but fortunately, every strip in the series' run can be found in numerous compilations.  The most impressive of these is the 10-year anniversary volume which contains some of his favorites.  Watterson was a recluse and rarely gave an interview, but in this book, he is very generous in his insights into many of the comics he had drawn over the years and is particularly not bashful at taking shots at the trends of reducing the modern comic strip to almost illegible size and particularly the licensing of Calvin and Hobbes, which he very successfully opposed.  It's not a surprise that he called it quits soon after this book came out.<br />Watterson comes off in his rants on the art of cartooning as a very bitter man, but a bitter man of unquestionable integrity.  I totally agree with him that licensing characters and sticking them on &quot;overpriced knick-knacks nobody needs&quot; does cheapen the strip.  As an example, &quot;Dilbert&quot; never affected me like it did after you couldn't turn around without seeing another Dilbert coffee mug, Dilbert stress ball, Dilbert burrito (I'm not making that up, folks), Dilbert hygiene product (OK, I made that up), etc.  I got sick of looking at Dilbert and my interest in the strip waned.<br />But I love going back and looking at old Calvin and Hobbes strips.  Sometimes I wish that Watterson would pick up his ink pen again and draw C&amp;H againon his terms, but maybe he's just better off letting his creation stand on its own accord.	2004-07-12
US	50369929	R1Y4A6HGA0G2R5	0740721135	995513967	The Complete Far Side: 1980-1994	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Behemoth of Belly-Laughs!	I was hoping to get the Complete Far Side for Christmas last year, so I held off on purchasing a copy for myself.  Well, Christmas came and the books didn't (probably because nobody wanted to lug the 18-pounder around the store!), so when I went to buy it after Christmas, it was sold out everywhere I went.  Bummer!  The only copies you could get for several months were through auctions and sellers asking over the full price for used copies.  So I decided to wait to see if it would be reissued.<br />Success!  When I saw this on the Amazon site for sale at the nice discounted price, I purchased it in world record time.  And boy am I glad I did.  I bought this about 6 or 7 weeks ago and I'm still in the first book as I take my time to review the strips and the various articles.  Some of the strips still miss the mark as they did when I first saw them, but still, a good percentage are still pretty darn funny 10 years after Larson retired the strip.  The presentation is tremendous.  So much so, my wife (a home-decorating-aholic) actaully allowed me to display these books on my desk in our house (and believe me, most of my stuff is relegated to the closet).<br />The high quality binding and paper make this a must for the Far Side fan.  I just wish that other comic compilations (like the new Complete Peanuts series) would have taken a lesson from Larson.	2004-06-21
US	50369929	R2825WAN4A1BQB	0066211077	933733881	It's Not Easy Bein' Me: A Lifetime of No Respect but Plenty of Sex and Drugs	Books	3	7	8	N	N	He's the King of Comedy, but the Book Leaves Me Wanting More	Rodney Dangerfield is one of the two funniest comedians I have ever seen (Sam Kinison, who Rodney essentially discovered, is the other).  The schtick of &quot;No Respect&quot; has never, ever gotten old with me.  So when I saw his autobiography, I grabbed a copy right away without so much as a skim.<br />Rodney tells his story with his usual &quot;No Respect&quot; fervor, but, he pretty much only grazes over his many experiences.  He wrote enough to let me know that he cared less about his mother and wished he knew his father better, but his first marriage is pretty much covered in a couple of pages.  No real explanation of what went wrong and why they got back together and got married again only to break up again.  Not much is mentioned about his kids.  Not much is mentioned about his take on other comedians (except Jim Carrey, who he takes much credit in keeping him from quitting the business in the early days).  I wanted more.<br />There are many of his famous one-liners interspersed between his writings.  I've heard most before, but they are still pretty funny.<br />All-in-all, I'm glad he wrote this book, but I suspect it would have been a lot better 10 to 15 years ago when he wasn't suffering from his many maladies of an 80+ year old man.	2004-06-21
US	50369929	R36Q2U50JVGAJD	156097589X	6726656	The Complete Peanuts 1950-1952 (Vol. 1)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	At Long Last!  The Definitive Peanuts Collection!	Ever since Charles Schulz retired his Peanuts cartoon strips and subsequently passed away, I have been hoping that a collection of all of the almost 18,000 strips would be developed.  Many books have been issued over the years with Peanuts strips, but many strips, especially those from the early years, were never published again after their appearance in the newspapers.<br />Fantagraphics Books has agreed to develop all of the Peanuts strips in a 25 volume series over a 12 year period (2 books per year) starting with the strips from October 1950 (when Peanuts debuted) to the end of 1952.  This first volume is fascinating as I would guess that I had previously seen less than half of the strips.  In addition, the character development that you see is also fun.  Schulz obviously planned the strip to star Shermy and Patty (not Peppermint Patty, who debuted in the 1960s) with Charlie Brown as a character to pick on.  But you see that very quickly, Shermy and Patty take a back seat to Charlie Brown and then take on even more limited roles as Schroeder, Lucy and Linus come into the cast and assume the major roles.<br />Of course, there is Snoopy, but he is basically just a dog in these strips.  He had yet to develop into the character that he became famous for, with thought balloons and a wicked imagination.  But it is fun to see him in his early days.<br />The quality of the book is very good with an extremely attractive dust jacket and nicely designed hardback covers.  The comic reproduction is very well done.  I'm not sure how the comics were reproduced (photocopies of newspaper articles), but whatever was done, it nicely transfers to paper.<br />There is an introduction by Garrison Keillor, who focuses on Schulz' St. Paul, MN roots plus several interviews and articles related to Schulz and the strip.  All add a nice touch to the collection.<br />After going through the first volume in the collection, it is going to be hard to wait six months for the next one.  This is going to be a terrific series that will be a must for the Peanuts fan!going to be a terrific series that will be a must for the Peanuts fan!	2004-04-27
US	50369929	R1YZGM7I0JQU06	0399150803	642490368	Trojan Odyssey (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Yes, He's Done Better, But Please Cut Clive Some Slack	I have read Clive Cussler novels for over 20 years and count some of his novels as the best I've ever read, in particular Sahara, Night Probe and Atlantis Found.  I picked up Trojan Odyssey pretty much the day it came out and, like most of his books, devoured it quickly.  And I have to admit that when I was done, I didn't have that &quot;Wow!&quot; reaction like I have had with many of his books, but I did enjoy it.<br />I thought the typical catastrophic event that pervades Clive's novels was novel indeed.  An evil corporation attempts to freeze out Europe using underground tunnels to attampt to change water temperatures in the oceans.  He hasn't done that one before.  Dirk Pitt and his partner Al Giordino again go through much agony to save the planet once again.<br />Of course, what has changed here is the addition to the storytelling of Dirk Pitt's newly discovered twins, Summer and Dirk, who made their initial appearance at the end of Clive's previous novel, Valhalla Rising.  I have to admit that I'm not a big fan of the twins, primarily because they are exactly like their namesakes (their mother, Summer Moran, was a character in the very first Pitt novel, Pacific Vortex).  I wish Clive had made them a different from Dirk Sr. and Summer Sr.  But I was glad that they only have a secondary role here.  I hope it stays that way in the future.<br />All that said, if you've never read a Cussler novel, I think you'll enjoy it.  If you've read the entire Cussler catalog, I can see why you might be disappointed a little.  But understand that Clive wrote this with a heavy heart as he lost his wife of 40+ years, Barbara, to cancer early in 2003.  He still plugged away for his fans, so I'm going to cut him some slack.  I'll bet the next Pitt novel will be a great one!	2004-04-05
US	50369929	R18J6J5BDP78TY	0345442725	630252939	"It Was a Dark and Stormy Night, Snoopy"	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Finally, the 1995 Year of Peanuts is Chronicled!	Since the Peanuts series ended in 2000, Ballantine Books have been issuing compilations of the last years of Peanuts in reverse order (1999-2000 first, then 1998, 1997 and 1996).  But for about two years I have waited for a book with the 1995 strips, which would complete their series (earlier years were compiled by other publishers).  But in this book, all of the strips from 1995 are published.  The strips aren't the best in Peanuts history (I think Schulz did his best work in the 1970's), but they still are interesting to review.  This was a period when Schulz did away with his typical four panel weekday strip and mixed things up (with many of his strips being just one large panel).<br />Since the new Fantagraphics series, which will publish all of the Peanuts strips in order over a 12+ year period won't get to the 1995 season for about 10 years, this book is a must for the Peanuts collector.	2004-03-04
US	50369929	R3EAK5CG8EAYSX	1581501013	261128736	Kelso (Thoroughbred Legends)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Well Researched Book About This 5 Time Horse of the Year	I have been clamoring for the publishers of the Thoroughbred Legends series to do a book on Kelso, the only horse to ever win Horse of the Year in five consecutive years (in fact, no other horse has won it more than three times).  It took a while, but author Steve Haskin has done a nice job of chronicling the life of Kelso, who raced until he was 9 years old and was a nation's hero.<br />Haskin goes through Kelso's early life, where he was not mature enough to compete in the Triple Crown series when he was 3 years old in 1960, but came around later that same year to dominate racing and win his first horse of the year honor.  He dominated as a 4 year old to win his second and had something of an off year as a 5 year old, but still was ruled the best.  Haskin documents his rivalries with 1961 Kentucky Derby winner Carry Back and with Gun Bow, who was his biggest threat to end his horse of the year streak.  The racing world got so used to seeing Kelso run that he was sorely missed when he retired.<br />Since Kelso was a gelding, there is no discussion of offspring, so the book is a little short for a horse with such a long career.  But Haskin does chronicle Kelso's last days very well, as he was shipped to Belmont Park at age 26 to lead (along with other great geldings Forego and John Henry) the post parade for the 1983 Jockey Club Gold Cup, a race Kelso won 5 straight times.  But the trip ended up being too much for the old guy and he succumbed to a colic attack the next day.  But he got to hear the cheers from the crowd one last time.<br />Kelso is one of the best books in the Legends series.  I hope that they will do future books on Count Fleet, Tom Fool, Whirlaway, Cigar and Seabiscuit, all deserving to be chronicled in this series.	2003-11-26
US	50369929	R2ZLE9EL4ZF74	0446530700	415968162	Native Dancer: The Grey Ghost Hero of a Golden Age	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	A Nice Telling of the Story of the Equine Hero of the 50's	With the success of the book &quot;Seabiscuit&quot; by Laura Hillenbrand, more books are being issued of some of the great thoroughbred race horses of the 20th century.  John Eisenberg, a newspaper journalist from Baltimore, has written a very good biography of Native Dancer, who was the first horse racing hero in the television age.  Native Dancer was a huge gray colt who won all but one race in his career, but the race he lost was the biggest one of all, the Kentucky Derby in 1953.<br />Eisenberg tells the story of Native Dancer similarly to the way Hillenbrand told her story, focusing on the owner, trainer and jockey while weaving it with the personality of the horse and tying it in with the theme of the era (depression in Hillenbrand's case, the discovery of television in the Dancer's case).  <br />The only criticisms are minor.  His focus on Native Dancer's loss to Dark Star in the '53 Derby happens in the middle of the book and is so well written that the rest of the book basically pales in comparison.  Whether it is fair or not, Native Dancer is famous because of his one loss, so the victories he had after that (including the final two jewels of the Triple Crown) just don't come off as very important.<br />But this book gave me a great appreciation of Native Dancer.  I don't think we'll see a movie of his life like we will with Seabiscuit, but I do hope we'll see more horse racing books from Mr. Eisenberg in the future (he has another that is even better called &quot;The Longest Shot&quot; about 1992 Derby winner Lil E. Tee).	2003-07-21
US	50369929	R11NR017ZWLBYP	0345450000	369762528	Ruffian: Burning from the Start	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wonderful Telling of A Tragic Story	I was 12 years old in 1975 and was eagerlly anticipating the match race between that year's Kentucky Derby winning colt Foolish Pleasure and the undefeated, unchallenged filly Ruffian.  But circumstances did not allow me to watch the race on TV that day, but I did hear about Ruffian's tragic breakdown that evening on the news.  I still remember to this day the emptiness of hearing the news of her demise.<br />Jane Schwartz gives a wonderful account of Ruffian's all-to-short life and career.  Interviews are conducted with owner connections, trainers and jockey Jacinto Vasquez, who was the regular rider of both Foolish Pleasure and Ruffian and thus has a unique perspective.  It all culminates with her graphic description of her breakdown and the superhuman efforts that were made to save her to no avail.<br />It's a mix of an entertaining and sad read.  It doesn't have a happy end, so if that is what you are looking for, don't read it.  But it probably is the best depiction of the highs and lows of the Sport of Kings.	2003-07-16
US	50369929	R2MFZB5KR8VSU6	1581500920	748321873	Genuine Risk (Thoroughbred Legends)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Nice Tribute to One of the Great Ladies of Racing	This book is the 20th in the Thoroughbred Legends series and I have them all as I am a huge fan of the great racing stars of yesterday.  The Genuine Risk book is the fourth about a filly in the series and tells a nice tight story about the her career including her victory in the 1980 Kentucky Derby, which made her the first filly in over 60 years to capture the Run for the Roses.  It also details the controversy that developed in the second jewel of the Triple Crown, the Preakness, when Genuine Risk apparently was forced wide by the eventual winner Codex.  Codex was not disqualified and a huge controversy ensued that went before a judging board (the decision was allowed to stand).  I had completely forgotten about that incident until I read the book.<br />The story also details Genuine Risk's heartbreaks in her attempts to be bred to some of the finest stallions around, including Secretariat, which was the first mating ever of Derby winners.  Genuine Risk did not have a successful mating until over 10 years after her retirement from racing and eventually only had two foals altogher when she was pensioned a few years ago.<br />The Genuine Risk book is one of the shortest in the series because here career was not a long one, so there aren't too many races to discuss, but overall I thought the author did a nice job.  I'd still like to see books on Kelso and Count Fleet come out in the series as these horses really made a name for themselves.	2003-07-01
US	50369929	R16X1ILU59OOSS	1931672059	856922993	Kentucky Derby Champion	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	A Word of Caution If You Want This Book	I read the Thoroughbred Legends book on Exterminator and in it, the author mentions a book that she enjoyed in her earlier days about this old time racehorse, written by Mildred Pace.  I found it had been reissued and was available on Amazon.  However, this new version of the book was re-edited to be suited to adults who were just learning how to read, which I believe is a great idea.  Long syllable words are replaced by short syllable words and sentences are very short. But understand that this is early elementary level reading.<br />The concept of the new version is great, but if you are interested in learning more about Exterminator, this one probably won't be satisfying to you.	2003-07-01
US	50369929	R1G8FHO5JAAOKZ	0813190339	988547793	The Longest Shot: Lil E. Tee and the Kentucky Derby	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	This May Be One of the Best Horse Racing Books Ever!	In May 1992, I sat down to watch the Kentucky Derby expecting to watch the coronation of a horse named Arazi as the best horse since Secretariat.  However, a horse I had never heard of before, Lil E. Tee, pulled a shocking upset of Arazi and won the Run for the Roses.  After Lil E. Tee failed to win the Preakness Stakes, he was forgotten in my mind.  That was until I picked up this book.<br />John Eisenberg's story of Lil E. Tee is one of the most fascinating horse racing stories you will ever read.  A horse with suspect breeding, chronic colic problems, bad legs and who changed hands several times (including once for a mere $3,000) went on to win the Kentucky Derby over several royally-bred colts plus the so-called unbeatable Arazi.  He also gave an accomplished jockey, Pat Day, his first (and so far, only) Kentucky Derby winner, when Day himself thought Lil E. Tee was one of his worst Derby mounts ever.<br />John Eisenberg has provided a well-researched tale of the life of Lil E. Tee prior to the Derby. Interviews have been conducted with pretty much all of the principles of his story and those tales have been woven into an entertaining story that reads almost like fiction.<br />\\"The Longest Shot\\" isn't quite the masterpiece of Laura Hillenbrand's \\"Seabiscuit\\", but I think that this book might have great potential as a movie, because it really is a true equine \\"Rocky\\"!	2003-06-23
US	50369929	R4FLKZJNJLOXV	0878332928	469654596	Citation: In a Class by Himself	Books	4	26	27	N	Y	Well Told Story From A Passionate Author	If you scan my Amazon reviews, you'll see I read a lot of horse racing books.  But one thing about that, there haven't been many books about racing.  But with the success of Laura Hillenbrand's \\"Seabiscuit\\", many more horse-racing books are finding their way on the shelves.  One of those is former track announcer Phil Georgeff's biography of 1948 Triple Crown winner Citation.<br />The casual style in which he tells the story of \\"Big Cy\\" lets you know in no uncertain terms that Georgeff loves Citation.  He does this through periodic digs at other great horses, like Secretariat and Cigar, but it is hard to argue with the man.  Citation had a terrific career as a 2 and 3 year old including the easiest trip through the Triple Crown of any horse. <br />Georgeff chronicles Citation's career, including the story of his greedy owner who wanted to race Citation until he became horse racing's first millionaire, causing him to run until he was six years old, long after a horse of his caliber should have been retired and sent to stud duty.  He also describes the story of Citation's jockey who disappeared on a fishing trip not long before the Kentucky Derby and was replaced by the great Eddie Arcaro.<br />All-in-all, it is a well told story and worthy to be included in horse racing fan's collection.  Georgeff also includes a \\"dream horse race\\" with 20 of the all time greats.  Want to guess who wins?	2003-06-23
US	50369929	R3V3WWCU43NX1A	1582381119	262163850	Statehood Quarters #2 (Official Whitman Coin Folder)Collection 2002 to 2005	Books	1	10	10	N	Y	The Holes Don't Fit the Quarters!	I used the first Whitman binder for the first three years of the statehood quarters  and it held the quarters pretty well.  But something strange happened when they made the binders for years 4 through 7 (Vol. 2) and 8 through 10 (Vol. 3).  They must have got the idea that the U.S. Mint shrunk the size of the quarter, because it is almost impossible to fit the quarters in the slots.  All have to be raised up on an end to fit snugly, but it looks awful.  That didn't work for me, so I have found another binder that does a better job.  It's hard to believe the leading coin book maker missed the boat on this one.	2003-02-24
US	50369929	R2UUO1SQJKS2UY	1581500912	819140289	Secretariat: Thoroughbred Legends	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A Fine Effort That Fits Well With the Legends Format	Tim Capps has written several of the Thoroughbred Legends books and my thoughts on his previous efforts (Spectacular Bid and Affirmed/Alydar) were that he really didn't make any effort in writing them.  It just seemed like he went through magazine and newspaper articles and came up with a 175 page summary (which was well-written, but seemed empty).  When I saw that he was to write the Legends bio of my equine hero, Secretariat, I was apprehensive at the prospect, especially since two outstanding books (by Raymond Woolf and Bill Nack) had already been written about Big Red.<br />But I have to say that Capps did a great job with the limitations of the Legends format.  He states right up front that he was apprehensive of doing the project because of the aforementioned books which had been published about Secretariat.  But he states that Secretariat was his favorite and he wanted to do him justice.  He has.  Obviously there is not the detail that is contained in Nack's book or the beautiful photography of Woolf's book, but Capps gives a clear story of each of Secreatiat's races, plus some of the behind the scenes dealings related to his syndication.<br />I didn't learn anything new with Capps' book since I have read everything I could about Secretariat, but this would be a great book for a young horse racing fan who wants to learn about this great horse with the big heart.	2003-02-24
US	50369929	R3P8WFTPMCGZ43	1581500831	151532218	Old Friends: Visits with My Favorite Thoroughbreds	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Great Book About The Forgotten Stars of Horse Racing	I'm a frequent visitor to a website which contains a lot of the work of Barbara Livingston.  I have to say that her photography of famous race horses, both current and from the past is impressive.  When I saw that she was writing a book about older thoroughbreds living out their last years, I was intrigued.<br />There are horses shown that I hadn't thought of in 20 years included, such as Wajima, who came out of nowhere in the latter part of 1975 to almost beat out the great Forego for Horse of the Year and faded into oblivion almost as quickly.  He ended up living a nice long life.<br />Another fun read was the story of Proud Birdie, who was very popular in Florida, but hit it big with a win over Forego in a big race.  The pictures of these horses were spectacular.<br />Barbara also chronicles the great champions Affirmed, Seattle Slew, Spectacular Bid and John Henry as well.  A lot has been written about these horses when they were in their primes, but a masterful job has been done about their later years.<br />I'm still going through the book, but I've looked at enough to let you know that if you love the bauty of horse racing, this would be a great coffee table book for your collection.	2002-10-01
US	50369929	R1YU3QB73K3LWT	0375821813	481125233	Hoot	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	A Hoot For Adults Too!	I am a big fan of Carl Hiaasen's columns and his off-the-wall novels, which focus on life in my old stomping grounds of South  Florida.  In interviews he has given, Mr. Hiaasen has said that he wanted to write a book that his kids could read as his adult works can be extremely crude and disturbing (although they are hilarious).<br />With \\"Hoot\\", I think he has made a very good first effort in the kids genre.  The story line of Roy, the kid who has had to move all over the country on account of his faher's job hit pretty close to home to me as I was in the same situation growing up.  Hiaasen perfectly captures the frustrations of being picked on and unaccepted as a child.  His encounters with Dana, the bully are great as Roy always has a way to win out.<br />Roy becomes curious about a boy he sees running barefoot and after a while he learns about the boy, know as Mullet Fingers.  This character comes off as a kid version of Hiaasen's infamous Skink from his novels Stormy Weather, Native Tongue and Sick Puppy.  Mullet Fingers is a junior environmental terrorist who tries to sabotage a construction site which contains burrowing owls, which will be wiped out when the bulldozers roll.  Roy learns all he can about the owls and the two, along with Mullet Fingers' stepsister, devise an interesting plan to stop the construction.<br />This is a great book for the early teenager, but I think his adult fans might get a kick out of it.  There's no weed-wacker prostetics in this one or people who juggle skulls, but a fairly straight-forward story that has a message.	2002-10-01
US	50369929	R3S3M61HX5N9SS	0740724924	400436241	September 11, 2001	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	An Interesting Book to Remember That Horrible Day	Dozens of books related to the September 11th tragedy have been published in the last year, with many providing pictures of minute-by-minute events on that horrible day.  This book is merely a reproduction of many of the front pages of our nation's (and the world's) newspapers the day after the World Trade Center towers and the Pentagon were attacked by terrorists.<br />It is interesting what approaches the papers took that day.  From half-page type to vivid pictures of the plane's impact into the second tower to the San Francisco Chronicles use of a word that one wouldn't expect to be used as a headline, it is a unique and interesting chronicle of that day.  <br />Other reviewers have claimed that this book is an exploitation of the people impacted by that day, but it really isn't.  You don't see pictures of people leaping to their death, you just see the news.  It happened, it will always be a part of our history and it should be documented.  I think this book does a good job of doing that.<br />Obviously, it is not the best book on chronically the events of that day.  Others show the collapse of the building, the jumping victims, the bravery of the fire and police, but this one does a great job of showing how the nation and the world reacted.	2002-08-20
US	50369929	R20DOKI9R3Z4M9	1581500610	914267780	Sunday Silence (Thoroughbred Legends)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Maybe the Best Book in the Legends Series	I have read all 17 books currently available in the Thoroughbred Legends series and have been telling myself to write a review of the Sunday Silence volume as I believe it is the best in the series.  The recent passing of this unique horse has finally given me an incentive to write about it.<br />The Sunday Silence book is probably the longest of the books dealing with a single horse (the Affirmed and Alydar book is longer, but is that way because it deals with the lives of both horses).  Author Ray Paulick has thoroghly researched the life of Sunday Silence and has used interviews to tell a great tale about a horse nobody wanted who went on to win two-thirds of the Triple Crown, including a victory in what is arguably the greatest race of all time, the 1989 Preakness, where he went nose-to-nose with his arch-rival Easy Goer in an exciting stretch duel.<br />Sunday Silence's rags to riches story is told alongside the story of his breeder, Arthur Hancock, who was passed over in the succession of his father at the great Claiborne Farms (his younger brother was chosen instead), but who went on to develop his own farm successfully.  Also intertwined is the story of his jockey Pat Valenzuela, a talented jockey whose career was later stunted by substance abuse (he is making a comeback and doing well, I understand).<br />The book also tells of Sunday Silence's breeding career in Japan, where he became a superstar sire and a nation's hero.  Reading this part of the book might let you understand why his Japanese owners elected not to euthanize Sunday Silence when he came down with laminitis in August 2002, letting nature eventually take him on her own.  He was loved so much in Japan, they obviously didn't want to let him go.<br />Many of the Legends books were written by people who obviously didn't do much but look at old newspaper and horse racing trade articles to write their stoies.  Paulick made an effort, with interviews, and it shows.  I believe this is the only book he has written in the series, but I hope to see more from him in future books.  There are still many great horses who haven't been written about (Secretariat, Kelso, Count Fleet) who could use the Paulick treatment.	2002-08-20
US	50369929	R1AVDNU8BR47H5	1581500734	853117611	Affirmed and Alydar: Thoroughbred Legends	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Good Synopsis of Horse Racing's Greatest Rivalry	I was 15 years old in 1978 when I watched two horses battle tooth and nail for that year's Triple Crown.  The Affirmed/Alydar rivalry may be the best in horse racing history and could be one of the best in sports history.  Three great races, each one more competitive than the one below, climaxing with the greatest horse race in history, the 1978 Belmont Stakes, where Affirmed completed the Triple Crown sweep by edging out his rival Alydar by a head.<br />I thought the idea of combining the stories of these two great horses was a great idea for the Thoroughbred Legends series.  Tim Capps has done a good job in capsulizing both horses careers, from their breeding (both horses had blood of Raise A Native - Alydar's sire and Affirmed's grandsire) to their career (where they met nine times in total), to their years at stud (where Alydar was the runaway winner) to their deaths (Affirmed's through the maladies of old age and Alydar's through suspicious circumstances).<br />My only complaint about the book is that it appears that most of Capps' research was done through reading and summarizing articles about the two horses' races.  Unlike some of the other books in this series, there are very few quotes from the two horses' connections (in fact it appears he only interviewed Alydar's trainer, John Veitch).  Many of the horses' connections are still alive (like their jockeys) and it would have been nice to hear more about their thoughts on the two horses.<br />Overall, a good book about these great warriors from years ago.	2002-04-25
US	50369929	R2AKNKC7W247R	0525945717	617663719	Flight: My Life in Mission Control	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	A Great Book Up Until the Apollo Missions, Then Tails Off	I picked up Chris Kraft's book &quot;Flight&quot; as I am an Apollo moon landing junkie and try to read all that is published on the topic.  I had also seen Kraft in several interviews and I expected him to be candid about the program from the Mission control point of view.  In that, I was not disappointed.  He heaps praise on men he admired, in particular, his boss Bob Gilruth and astronaut Deke Slayton.  He skewers others, like rocket genius Werner Von Braun, NASA bureaucrats, the Congress, President Nixon, the people who made the movie &quot;Apollo 13&quot;, the American people (for apathy about the space program after the Apollo 11 landing), John Glenn and most particularly Scott Carpenter, an original Mercury astronaut who, in no uncertain terms, is not on Kraft's Christmas card list.<br />I felt Kraft's description of his childhood, college education at Virginia Tech and his early life as an aeronautical engineer was very well done.  He also does a great job in describing the start of the Mercury program and the many tests that needed to be done to get Americans into space.<br />What is disappointing is that this detail starts to tail off when he begins to describe the Gemini program and it surprisingly is more sparse when it comes to the Apollo program, which is the program I am most interested about.  He glosses over the Apollo 12, 14 and 16 missions, covering them in about one page each.  Even the historic Apollo 11 mission is only covered in a few pages as is the problems with Apollo 13.  It seems like Kraft had a page limit requirement and decided to wrap it up quick, but at the expense of not going into detail about the Apollo missions.  It takes away from the overall rating of the book, but it is a must for Apollo mission fans as this book is much better than Gene Kranz's rambling book about his experiences in Mission Control.	2002-04-18
US	50369929	R1CEXMRDAKEBHC	1928873251	427318989	A Short Course in Canon PowerShot G2 Photography Book/eBook	Books	4	30	32	N	Y	Very Good Companion to Canon G2 Manual, Wish It Were Smaller	This spiral-bound 108 page book is a great complement to the documentation that one receives with his/her Canon G2 digital camera.  It doesn't go into a step-by-step how-to-use the camera approach, but fills in the blanks as to when you want to use certain functions.  It is very thorough in its review of the primary functions of the G2, with many pictures setting out every step (a CD-Rom is also included which provides a color version of the manual - the printed copy is in black and white to keep the costs down).  The chapter on exposure was one of the best I have ever seen in any photography book.  I think that this is the best equipment specific camera book I have read (way better than the Magic Lantern books which cancontain a lot of fluff).<br />My only complaint is that the book is 8.5&quot; x 11&quot; in size, which makes it unwieldy for tossing in the camera bag.  I'd like to see a book similar to the size to the Magic Lantern books, although I'm sure that the photographs included would suffer from the reduced size.  This is somewhat remedied by the fact that the CD contains a pocket-sized book that you can print out which summarizes the main points of the primary book (no pictures included).<br />This book is a very good accessory to go with your Canon G2.  I'd say it's the next thing you want to get after you get your memory cards and extra battery.	2002-04-02
US	50369929	R24IL5OGE5GCVT	0066619807	788204594	Chainsaw: The Notorious Career of Al Dunlap in the Era of Profit-at-Any-Price	Books	4	5	5	N	N	If You Think You Work For A Jerk...	I found \\"Chainsaw\\" in a discounted book bin and picked it up because I wanted to learn more about the man who was hailed by Wall Street analysts as a fast turnaround artist but hated by the many employees who felt the wrath of his cost-cutting sword at the companies in which he was in charge.<br />Chainsaw primarily chronicles Chainsaw Al Dunlap's rocky two year tenure at Sunbeam Corp., where he closed numerous plants, fired almost half of its employees, ran roughshod over the half who remained, heaped more praise upon himself then the most conceited athlete or movie star and pretty much ran the company into the ground.<br />The author, John Byrne has spoken to several hundred people who have dealt with Dunlap's rage and unrealistic expectations and has been able to piece together a non-fiction work that reads like a novel.  Significant amounts of dialog between Dunlap and his cronies are displayed and it basically says one thing.  Chainsaw Al Dunlap ruled through total intimidation and with the exception of his right hand man, listened to nobody but himself, even though he had no experience with the products that Sunbeam sold.  He fired (or actually had somebody else fire) everybody who didn't appear to him to be part of the team.  Byrne perfectly sets out the tension that occurred when Dunlap was on a rampage.<br />The reader gets to see the desperate measures a company will go through to try to meet investor and Wall Street expectations, including accounting games which have come to the forefront as a result of the Enron debacle.  I'm not an accountant, but I even have to admit that things they did were pretty shady.<br />Byrne wraps the book up with the final straws that led Al Dunlap to go down in flames at Sunbeam, ending in his firing at a secretive board meeting in New York City.  I see that a paperback version is coming out soon, which I hope will bring the story of Dunlap up to date, including his required payment to a trust fund to settle civil lawsuits against him.<br />Byrne's only fault is that he is not totally objective.  It's easy to tell that he despises Dunlap (he calls him a loudmouth, comments on the large size of his teeth, attacks his love of his dogs over everything else), so I knock the rating to four stars, but it's still a pretty good business case book.  Bryne would be a great candidate to writeup the Enron story as he does have a way with story telling and research.	2002-04-02
US	50369929	R1BNQ4ON00BYFX	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	1	20	26	N	N	Patterson's Worst	I've read most of James Patterson's work and consider him a \\"popcorn\\" novelist.  Nothing fancy, but usually satisfying.  Unlike other reviewers, I like his short (2-3 pages) chapter approach to writing as I think it keeps things moving along pretty well.<br />But Cradle and All just didn't do it for me.  I tried, I really tried, but I finally had to give up at about 150 pages.  I think the religious and apocolyptic angle just doesn't jibe with his usual style of murder mysteries.  Plus, the nun-turned-detective just wasn't believeable enough to pull this one off.<br />This book was a re-write of a book Patterson wrote 20 years ago and reissued to cash in on his popularity.  Something tells me that this and The Season of the Machete, another old Patterson book that was just awful, should have stayed in obscurity.<br />Patterson is best when he gets into his characters.  The Alex Cross books are highly entertaining and the first in the four San Francisco women series (1st to Die) was very promising.  My suggestion is for a new reading to read the series books and avoid most of the rest.	2002-03-13
US	50369929	R2A5ZA35WTHGG0	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Grisham Lite Gets Lighter	With \\"The Summons\\", John Grisham continues his mastery of writing novels with good premises but poor execution and way-too-rushed conclusions.  The first 50 to 100 pages of the book showed promise with the death of Judge Atlee, the discovery by Ray, the Judge's son, of his dead father and $3 million of cash hidden in the Judge's house.  But after that is set, there is a lot of \\"Ray put the money in a public storage vault\\", \\"Ray moved the money to another public storage vault\\", \\"Ray moved the money into trash bags and stashed them in his car trunk\\", \\"Ray was worried that somebody might find the money in his trunk\\", \\"Ray got a letter that implies that somebody else knows about the money\\" and so on.  Lots of worrying and moving money without much action.<br />As other reviewers have said, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out who the culprit who stalks Ray is about halfway through the book.  I found myself wondering that if another writer were to have written \\"The Summons\\", would it have ever been published?  I guess it is good to be the king!<br />John Grisham needs to do two things.  First, he needs to take more time to write his books.  For the first couple of months  of every year for the past ten years, you could count on two things, snow in the Midwest and a new Grisham book on the shelves.  This rushed approach has shown in his work for about every book since The Partner around 1997 as no book stands out from his earlier works (in fact, most have been poor).  This guy is talented as prior works like \\"A Time To Kill\\", \\"The Firm\\" and \\"The Chamber\\" shows, but he has slipped big time.  More time writing means better quality material (I hope).<br />Grisham also needs to not limit himself to the 350 or so pages that is the usual length of his novels.  In \\"The Brethren\\" and this book, the endings are way too rushed and less than satisfying.  Grisham style (which is a breeze to read) lends itself well to a longer book, which may result in a better story thanwhat he has come up with recently.<br />	2002-03-06
US	50369929	R1W6MDO04Z1Y	0446605409	348227423	Plum Island	Books	4	51	59	N	N	Good Novel, Corey is a Trip!!	Plum Island is my third Nelson DeMille book and like the previous two I've read (Gold Coast and Charm School), it's a little long winded, probably 100 pages longer than it needed to be, but the primary character, John Corey is his best character to date.  I agree with other reviewers that he is arrogant, but he is pretty funny with his sarcasm, which makes him tolerable when the story drags.<br />The storyline, which deals with the murder of employees of Plum Island, where work is done with hazardous materials (including anthrax) is obviously very timely today.  It makes a lot more sense today than in 1997 when this book was first published.  You get to learn a little about this stuff, so DeMille's research doesn't go to waste here.<br />I found fault with DeMille's decision to let Corey figure out who the criminal was midway through the book and then spending the rest of the book showing how he gets this person.  It would have been nice if he threw in a plot twist somewhere later to shake things up and add some suspense, but it's a good book that will lead me to read The Lion's Game (another Corey book) in the future.	2002-01-23
US	50369929	RBROSXDB9T7XN	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	61	64	N	N	Not As Wacky As Previous Efforts, But Fun Nonetheless	I have read Carl Hiaasen novels for over 10 years and do because I love the off-the-wall humor he brings to his novels.  Previous efforts have reflected interesting uses of weed-wackers (in Skin Tight) and \\"The Club\\" (in Stormy Weather), not to mention the periodic exploits of a former Florida governor turned road kill conniseur (Skink).  He is a terrific storyteller who is passionate about the Florida environment as all of his previous novels had some type of \\"Save the Everglades\\" bent to them.<br />However, Hiaasen has taken a different turn with \\"Basket Case\\".  First of all, this is his first novel written in the first person as he assumes the voice of Jack Tagger, former hotshot investigative newspaper reporter who has committed career suicide by publicly humiliating his boss and has been relegated to writing obituaries.  Tagger is obsessed with the ages of people when they die and judges his life based on the famous people who died at his current age, which drives the people who care for him crazy.  Tagger gets the chance to investigate the death of Jimmy Stoma, a washed-up rock star who was attempting to make a comeback at the time of his demise.  You get to meet his wacky widow as well as several folks who help him in his quest.  Hiaasen handles the limitations of the first person narrative pretty well, primarily through crisp use of dialog.  It's a nice first effort for this style, although he can open himself more by staying in the third person as he has done previously.<br />I also credit Hiaasen for staying away from the environmental issues in this novel.  I have stated in previous reviews of the recent Hiaasen novels that this subplot, present in all his novels in some form, was getting old, a sentiment agreed with by many other faithful readers.  I think it's great that he has the forum of a novel to get his anger with the over-development of South Florida out, but it was time for a break.  It's not his best work (Native Tongue and Stormy Weather are his best in my opinion), but Basket Case is just plain fun without a lot of messages being sent.<br />I look forward to the next novel, which if form holds, will bring back Skink.  But I enjoyed this one nonetheless.  You will too.	2002-01-23
US	50369929	RQXT34RYVMRN8	0399147918	110761810	Paradise Screwed	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	Good, But Not As Good As The First Hiaasen Compilation	Carl Hiaasen's second compilation of his Miami Herald columns continues to show the biting wit which is prevalent in his usually terrific novels.  But my guess is that the first book of columns &quot;Kick&quot; was probably designed to be the Best of Hiaasen with no plans for a sequel.  Thus the columns contained in &quot;Paradise&quot; are the second cut and thus just not as good, although they are enjoyable to read.  Not as many idiotic South Florida politicians this time around, not as many idiotic citizens.  I was also disappointed in the way he handled the Florida election fiasco for the 2000 Presidential election.  This was a topic just made for his humor, but he chose to use his forum as a soapbox to get a recount and to get Al Gore elected (he doesn't say it, but it was pretty obvious to me).  My hope is that he plans to use this as fodder for a future novel and thus wanted to save his material.<br />Hiaasen is a great columnist.  I live over 1,000 miles away from South Florida, but he gets his point across pretty well.  It would have been nice if each story had a little afterword as to what ultimately happened to the people in the column (i.e. did the politician give up his $15,000 desk that was paid for with taxpayer money voluntarily).<br />Good for the Hiaasen completest, but the first book &quot;Kick&quot; is the better choice.	2002-01-07
US	50369929	R2AGZ8AJJ6KA7J	0446360856	38570142	The Gold Coast	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Long Winded Novel With Little Action	&quot;The Gold Coast&quot; was my first Nelson DeMille book and I found it to be a chore to read.  That is because the first half of the book is basically a long-winded description of the main characters and in particular, about the extravagence of the Gold Coast, with little plot development.  Page after page of thoughts, feelings, descriptions of rooms in a mansion or a restaurant, thoughts about friends or so-called friends must be thumbed through before there is any action to get excited about.  It wasn't until about Page 400 or so before DeMille gets into the meat of the story, which is the purpose of the relationship between the protagionist John Sutter and his neighbor, Mafia don Bellarosa.  From that point it gets interesting, but winds up with a less than satisfying finish, so it's a hard book to get excited about and recommend to others.<br />I have since read DeMille's book &quot;The Charm School&quot;, which is a much better book.  I attribute this to the fact that &quot;The Gold Coast&quot; is written in the first person while &quot;The Charm School&quot; is written in the third person, the former lending itself to much more rambling.  I also think that DeMille is probably a serious researcher of the subjects of his books and feels he has to incorporate that knowledge whenever he can, whether it advances the story or not.  This book could have easily covered the same material in 200 less pages and not missed much as far as telling the story.<br />I won't give up on DeMille because he can be funny and he writes dialog well, but he needs to tighten things up a little more.  I also will be interested to see how Hollywood treats &quot;The Gold Coast&quot; as a movie is being made with Al Pacino already cast to star (as the Don, I assume).	2001-11-30
US	50369929	R1QAAIE51Z6YDU	0446353205	522252231	The Charm School	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A Little Tedious, But A Great Plot	My wife has tried to get me to read books by Nelson DeMille for some time and stated that &quot;The Charm School&quot; was his best.  So I decided to give it a shot.  The plot of a school in Russia where former American Vietnam War POWs teach Russian spies to become Americans is one of the best plots I've ever seen in adventure/thriller novels.  Definitely a plot where you could ask yourself (especially in 1988 when it was written and when US/USSR relations were still fairly cold) &quot;could this happen&quot;.<br />However, DeMille is a tedious author and you have to trudge through pages of mundane discussions about the Russian people, government to get to the meat of the action, which is what interests me.  I would guess that DeMille did a fair amount of research on Russia and wanted to incorporate this knowledge where he could.  That is fine if the information helps move the plot along.<br />Overall, it's a good book which could have been 100-150 pages shorter.  As I was reading it, I found myself wondering what a master of adventure like Clive Cussler could have done with this excellent plot.  A lot more, I suspect.	2001-11-29
US	50369929	R3836J9QVMCSVF	0609606336	214881024	Nine Minutes, Twenty Seconds: The Tragedy & Triumph of ASA Flight 529	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very fast read with a lot of tension	I'll admit it.  I have a thing about airplane crashes.  Whenever I hear about one, I try to find out whatever I can about it.  I have flown many miles over the years and have never encoutered anything worse than strong turbulence.  But I've often wondered how I would react if I were ever a passenger on an airliner that was in trouble.  \\"Nine Minutes and Twenty Seconds\\" gives a chilling account of what people experience when a plane has a severe malfunction and they have time to think about what could happen to them.<br />The title of this book reflects the amount of time ASA Flight 529 experienced a broken propeller blade causing severe structural damage to one wing until the plane's impact in a field in Georgia.  You get the points of view of several survivors, what they felt, what they saw and what they had to go through after the impact, including long hospitalization and rehabilitation.  You see the courage of people to help others when their own lives are at stake.  You see the courage of a flight attendant who doesn't melt down at the moment of truth.  You see the anger of people who don't think that flight attendant did enough.  You see pilots trying desparately to control a dying aircraft and get it to an airport, any airport, to no avail.  It is absolutely chilling to read.<br />I give the book four stars instead of five because, selfishly, I wanted more.  Throughout the book, the author does mention all of the passengers who were on the plane, but it would have been nice to learn more about these people.  I'm sure that families of those who did not survive the crash may have declined to talk about it because it was too painful and those who survived may have felt the same way, so that may have been asking a lot of the author.  I will say that I am a plodding reader and I read this in about six hours in one day.  It goes by quickly.<br />A must read for frequent fliers.	2001-11-29
US	50369929	R3NTZ2HHD3H2WT	0375420975	449634161	Peanuts: The Art of Charles M. Schulz	Books	5	47	47	N	Y	A very nice collection of older Peanuts strips	I am an ardent collector of books related to the Peanuts comic strips created by Charles Schulz. But one thing you learn when you have this hobby is that not as much exists from the early days of Peanuts (particularly the first five years or so). My understanding is that as time went on, Schulz wasn't as fond of the earlier days of Peanuts and did not want these strips reprinted if he could help it. These were the days when Charlie Brown's shirt didn't have the famous zig-zag and Snoopy walked on all four legs and didn't have his famous &quot;thought balloons&quot;.<br />This book &quot;Peanuts: The Art of Charles Schulz&quot; is focused primarily on those early days of Peanuts, with most of the material from the first ten years of the strip (the 1950's). The strips are photographed from Schulz's archives and there are many strips I have never seen before (and I've seen just about every one that was published). You even get to see the long forgotten Charlotte Braun, who was in the strip for a short period around 1954 and had the fussbudget personality later assumed by Lucy. Fascinating. You see Lucy, Linus and Schroeder as babies. You see Charlie Brown with a huge head (much bigger in proportion to his body than you are used to seeing). And you see Snoopy as basically just a dog before he assumed his own thoughts and imagination.<br />There is also a lot of sketches and strips from the pre-Peanuts days (Lil Folks) that can really give you insight into how Peanuts eventually came to be. This has never been done to any great extent is any Peanuts book that I have seen.<br />The strips are terrific and the style of the presentation is very pleasant to look at as well. This book is laid out more as an art book than as a collection of comic strips. And it is very well done at that. It's better than just about all the books that were issued every five years to celebrate landmark years for Peanuts (25th anniversary, 30th, etc.)<br />This book is a must for any hardcore Peanuts fan who wants to see how this tremendous icon of American culture for the last half of the 20th century got its start.	2001-10-30
US	50369929	RP26HU82T5UKB	1578063051	8817752	Charles M. Schulz: Conversations (Conversations with Comic Artists Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Some Good Insights Into Schulz	I picked up this book of various interviews that Charles Schulz did from the mid-1950's to the late -1990's to get a better feel for the creator of the world's greatest comic strip, Peanuts. There are some interesting insights here, particularly into Schulz's personality. You really see that the lonliness and feelings of defeat suffered by Charlie Brown for almost 50 years were what Schulz felt for his childhood and a great deal of his adult life.<br />A lot of the questions asked by the various interviewers dealt with Schulz's religious beliefs, given the fact that many of the Peanuts comics had a religious tone to them. I found some of Schulz's comments interesting, but I never cared that much for those particular Peanuts strips, so a significant portion of this book didn't hold much interest for me.<br />It was interesting to see how the interviews conducted by writers employed by comic book magazines seemed very critical of Schulz related to the commercialization of Peanuts (i.e. Ford Motor ads in the 1960's, MetLife, etc.) I think Schulz handled these queries very well and also shows how tough he could be when pressed.<br />I think if you've read Rheta Johnson's terrific biography of Schulz and seen thegreat documentary on A&amp;E, you'll have the best background of Schulz. This book is best served as a &quot;fill in the blanks&quot; supplement to those media.	2001-09-10
US	50369929	R2OYL0YDP5X5ZX	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	2	9	14	N	N	388 Pages Without Getting To a Point	John Grisham has been slaughtered by critics (both professional and by readers on Amazon.com) over the past couple of years because of the mediocrity of his last 2 or 3 novels, which I felt were well deserved.  So I think he decided to write &quot;A Painted House&quot; to attempt to show that he has a literary side which would, in turn, win over the critics (and he did seem to get more positive reviews this time).  I don't think this book is a bad book as the dialog is terrific, but basically, not a whole lot happens in this novel.  Yes, there are a couple of killings and numerous family trials and tribulations, but it is all portrayed as just all in a day's worth of picking cotton.  I also had a hard time with the fact that the narrator, Luke Chandler, was only seven years old.  He seemed way too wise beyond his years for me (if Luke was 12 or 13, it might have worked for me).  He had this problem with handling kids in the &quot;The Client&quot; as well.<br />I picked this book up when it came out, read about 150 pages of it and put it aside until a week ago, when I decided that I was going to finish it.  Once you set your mind to it, it reads very fast, but it just isn't interesting.  I give the book two stars because I at least give Grisham credit for taking a risk in going away from the formula that has worked so well for him for a decade.  But it would have been better if there was a real story to tell.	2001-09-10
US	50369929	R21Q1PXA55RRN9	0767904664	649000501	Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Ideas Make Sense, So It Will Never Happen	I have listened to Bob Costas announce sports for probably over 20 years.  When he isn't trying to wax poetic about sports, he is a knowledgeable and entertaining broadcaster.  With that in mind, I decided to read his book &quot;Fair Ball&quot; which is his manifesto as to how the game of major league baseball can be improved in the future.<br />Much of his book concentrates on the issue of revenue sharing, which has been a bone of contention among owners for years.  His plans for sharing local broadcasting money and for sharing ticket money are solid ideas, but they've been suggested before and little has been done over the years because the teams that rake in the most money through these are not likely to want to part with them.  Costas says that the big-market teams need to look at the long-term impact that revenue sharing will bring to the entire league, but doesn't really address that it will be very hard for owners of those teams to do that.<br />His arguments for realignment, interleague play and scheduling are great ideas.  I liked the concept of interleague play when it was adopted in 1997, but did not know that the same divisions were always going to play each other each year.  Major league basball has agreed to follow one of his suggestions as it is following an unbalanced schedule this year (where teams within a division play more games against each other than against the rest of the league).  So maybe they will look at the bigger picture someday.<br />I agree with his positions on mostly everything else, including allowing Pete Rose to be eligible to enter the Hall of Fame, the elimination of the designated hitter and a day World Series game (the latter will never happen, however, because of the money that will be lost from advertisers).<br />Costas has written a concise argument for baseball.  I hope the powers that represent the owners and players read it before the end of the collective bargaining agreement at the end of this season!	2001-06-07
US	50369929	R2EWKHL7U9CW6P	190274506X	469008537	Learn to Program Visual Basic 6 Examples	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	Has Its Flaws, But Overall A Good Reference Book	I read John Smiley's Intro to Visual Basic book and found it very informative and a fast read (rare for a programming book).  So I picked up his Examples book to get an even better understanding of Visual Basic concepts.<br />Of the 100 examples listed, I would say about 20% of them cover concepts that Smiley goes over fairly thoroughly in his Intro book, 10% are incredibly stupid concepts (i.e. why does an underscore in a variable name disappear when it is in the general declarations portion of the code - the separator bar covers it up), 10% are questions cleverly designed to promote either Smiley's other books or books written by his friends and 60% provide very good Visual Basic tips that could come in handy to programmers from time to time.<br />It is these 60% (or 80% if you haven't read the Intro book, but are familiar with the basics of VB) that makes the book worthwhile.  I actually was working on an assignment for a VB class I'm taking and got hung up on a concept in a program I was assigned to write.  It so happened, I was reading this book at the time and I happened to come across an Example that solved my problem.  So there is a lot of good stuff here.<br />A lot of people who post negative reviews of Smiley's books criticize the storytelling way Smiley uses to communicate the material he presents.  Sure, the international TV show concept used in this Examples book is pretty hokey, but it is a more relaxing way to learn the material and I think helps the reader grasp the concept better than almost any other programming book.  With other books, the author tries to cram so much information into the book that a reader (especially a beginner) can get overwhelmed and just give up.  Smiley's approach doesn't do that.<br />I'm not crazy of Smiley's constant shilling for people to buy his other books and especially his blatant attempt to promote other authors by using a question on a concept not meant for a beginning VB programmer. That's why I go four instead of five stars on this review.  I think Smiley could have easily come up with 100 unique situatiuons that were (1) not already in his Intro book, (2) not incredibly stupid and (3) were for beginning and intermediate VB programmers.<br />I will say that I did have fun trying to guess the famous people he was using as the callers to his show (i.e. Jimi from Seattle, Abe from Springfield, IL).  I do wish that in the fictional part of the book that he spiced up his relationship with Linda, his TV show producer.  Instead of coffee and donuts after the show at the local pastry shoppe, they should have had wine and a nice aged brie at the local motel.  But that's another book!<br />Overall, Smiley's books are a good way to learn VB if you are open-mined to a new approach to textbook teaching and don't expect to gain all the knowledge needed to be Microsoft certified (as many seem to expect).	2000-10-12
US	50369929	R28A0N8A3S1CM7	190274506X	469008537	Learn to Program Visual Basic 6 Examples	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Has Its Flaws, But Overall A Good Reference Book	I read John Smiley's Intro to Visual Basic book and found it very informative and a fast read (rare for a programming book).  So I picked up his Examples book to get an even better understanding of Visual Basic concepts.<br />Of the 100 examples listed, I would say about 20% of them cover concepts that Smiley goes over fairly thoroughly in his Intro book, 10% are incredibly stupid concepts (i.e. why does an underscore in a variable name disappear when it is in the general declarations portion of the code - the separator bar covers it up), 10% are questions cleverly designed to promote either Smiley's other books or books written by his friends and 60% provide very good Visual Basic tips that could come in handy to programmers from time to time.<br />It is these 60% (or 80% if you haven't read the Intro book, but are familiar with the basics of VB) that makes the book worthwhile.  I actually was working on an assignment for a VB class I'm taking and got hung up on a concept in a program I was assigned to write.  It so happened, I was reading this book at the time and I happened to come across an Example that solved my problem.  So there is a lot of good stuff here.<br />A lot of people who post negative reviews of Smiley's books criticize the storytelling way Smiley uses to communicate the material he presents.  Sure, the international TV show concept used in this Examples book is pretty hokey, but it is a more relaxing way to learn the material and I think helps the reader grasp the concept better than almost any other programming book.  With other books, the author tries to cram so much information into the book that a reader (especially a beginner) can get overwhelmed and just give up.  Smiley's approach doesn't do that.<br />I'm not crazy of Smiley's constant shilling for people to buy his other books and especially his blatant attempt to promote other authors by using a question on a concept not meant for a beginning VB programmer. That's why I go four instead of five stars on this review.  I think Smiley could have easily come up with 100 unique situatiuons that were (1) not already in his Intro book, (2) not incredibly stupid and (3) were for beginning and intermediate VB programmers.<br />I will say that I did have fun trying to guess the famous people he was using as the callers to his show (i.e. Jimi from Seattle, Abe from Springfield, IL).  I do wish that in the fictional part of the book that he spiced up his relationship with Linda, his TV show producer.  Instead of coffee and donuts after the show at the local pastry shoppe, they should have had wine and a nice aged brie at the local motel.  But that's another book!<br />Overall, Smiley's books are a good way to learn VB if you are open-mined to a new approach to textbook teaching and don't expect to gain all the knowledge needed to be Microsoft certified (as many seem to expect).	2000-10-12
US	50369929	R346XCNNH2LY75	1902745000	264242243	Learn to Program with Visual Basic 6	Books	5	114	114	N	N	It's For Absolute Beginners, Folks!	I am interested in pursuing a career change to the world of programming and have been told by friends in the know that Visual Basic is a good language to start out with for its ease of use compared to other languages and its applicability in the business world today.  I therefore went out and bought two different introductory Visual Basic books and Microsoft's Visual Basic learning edition.  What I found in reading these books is that they give a good introduction to VB, but then at some point, the authors of the books forget you are a beginner and start introducing topics that seem somewhat advanced with very little explanation.  After a while, your head starts to spin and you give up.<br />I then read some reviews on Amazon.com about other VB books and  a lot of folks mentioned the John Smiley series as a good one to start with if you are new to programming and VB.  So I picked up his first book.  And I'm glad I did.  True, the classroom dialog that makes up a fair portion of the book is occaisionally inane, tedious and repetitious.  However, if you hear about the same concept again in Chapters 2, 5, 6, 10 and 14, it burns in your head and you aren't as likely to forget it.  Generally, this repetition is only for a sentence of two to refresh our memories.  But it works.  I also think the use of dialog of getting the information communicated allows for a more relaxing way of learning the material than paragraphs chock full of technical data that may take you a half hour just to get through six pages.  I agree that you'll probably get more information out of the typical 700 page VB book than Smiley's book, but I'll also bet you aren't as likely to get through that book either, especially if you are a beginner.  I was able to get through Smiley's book in less than two weeks at about two hours a night (working through all the many examples he provides).  I am currently in the process of skimming the book a second time to strengthen my understanding of some of the tougher concepts of the book (i.e. arrays took a little bit to understand - for me at least).<br />I have picked up the other three books in the Smiley VB series, which I hope to get through over the next couple of months.  Then I might pick up those &quot;beginner&quot; books I started out with again and pick up some more concepts to expand my knowledge base in VB.<br />Overall, Smiley's book is a great way to start learing VB programming, but only if you are agreeable to a new teaching approach and you aren't expecting to learn advanced concepts in VB.	2000-09-20
US	50369929	R1E3PEFEL4Z0GD	0316277959	488930050	The Majors-In Pursuit of Golf's Holy Grail	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Solid Effort	John Feinstein's second golf-related book, &quot;The Majors&quot; is not as good as his first one, &quot;A Good Walk Spoiled&quot; which dealt with a broader number of topics related to the PGA Tour but it still is a pretty  good (and fast) read.<br />Feinstein has picked about 12 golfers to follow for  the majors of 1998 as well as small snipits about other golfers (such as  club pros who make it into the PGA Championship).  He doesn't really focus  on any one golfer in particular, which I like because I was fully expecting  this book to focus largely on Tiger Woods.  This was not the case.  You get  to see the frustration of Mark O'Meara of not being considered one of the  top players and then see him experience the joy of winning not one, but two  majors in 1998.  You see the frustration of David Duval who was considered  the world's best player in 1998 lose a heartbreaker in the Masters and then  not really contend in the other majors.  And you see the much-maligned  Vijay Singh survive a tough duel with Steve Stricker to win the  PGA.<br />All-in-all, this is a good book with some fine reporting by the  well-respected journalist.  If you haven't read Good Walk Spoiled, read  that one first before picking this one up.	2000-06-19
US	50369929	R51DZU65P1KVQ	0740704532	714509826	Random Acts Of Management:A Dilbert Book	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Dilbert May Be Running Out of Gas	I think this compilation of Dilbert strips from 1998 and 1999 show that Scott Adams is running out of funny ideas.  I haven't laughed much at  Dilbert the last couple of years and this collection confirms that.  I have  been a big fan of Dilbert since the early 90's, but I think Scott Adams'  dependence on reader input for ideas instead of those generated from his  own corporate experiences (he quit his job several years ago) is starting  to drag the strip down.  I also think Mr. Adams' is spending too much time  on the business side of Dilbert (TV shows, product marketing) to give the  strip the attention it needs.  I hope that he'll remember what got him  where he is today and focus his energy on his comic strip in the future.   If you've got all the books, get it, but if you want some laughs, try some  of the earlier Dilbert compilation books instead.	2000-04-18
US	50369929	R2IFEM15ORYVJJ	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Get Chased, Get Caught, Get Free, Get Chased ...	Timeline is Michael Crichton's best work since Disclosure, which isn't really saying much since the two novels that have been published between these two books, Lost World and Airframe were absolutely atrocious.<br />I was  interested in the first 150 pages when the concept of quantum physics was  discussed and put into action, but after the three main characters made it  to 1357, it became nothing more than the Lost World without the dinosaurs,  with nothing more than small dialog between chase scenes.<br />I suspect my  lack of enthusiasm with the book also has something to do with my lack of  interest in medieval times.  I was left to wonder if Crichton was able to  weave a story that involved the US Civil War or the American Revolutionary  War if I would feel different about it.  We'll probably never know.<br />I  agree that this has the making of a great movie, but unfortunately, that is  how Crichton writes these days, with the movie in mind first, then the  story itself.<br />Overall, it's just an OK book.	2000-04-17
US	50369929	R2QGAIT7VZ9F9S	0740704532	714509826	Random Acts Of Management:A Dilbert Book	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Scott Adams is Running Out of Gas	This compilation of Dilbert comic strips from 1998-1999 begins to show the decline in the humor and quality of the strip.  I know that when I have  read Dilbert in the newspaper the past couple of years, I haven't laughed  much compared to five or so years ago when Scott had me howling.  Seeing  all the strips together just supports that opinion.  I don't know if the  strip's reduced quality is due to the fact that Scott has been away from  the corporate ratrace for several years and has lost touch with all the  idiocy (he gets most of his ideas now from readers) or whether he has  focused his energies on other aspects of the Dilbert world (TV show,  marketing) that he doesn't focus on the strip like he used to do.<br />This is  a good book to have if you are a Dilbert book completest, but if you want  to laugh get an earlier Dilbert strip compilation book instead.	2000-04-03
US	50369929	R2XP149URVOTYP	0809235641	768217102	Monthly Interest Amortization Tables	Books	5	14	42	N	N	This Book is a Load of Laughs!	I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I mean, who doesn't like to look at mortgage amortization tables?  Me and my family like to sit around and quiz each other by saying stuff like &quot;What is the monthly payment on a 30  year fixed interest mortgage of $135,000 at 8.25%?&quot;  We've even set it  up in &quot;Who Wants to be a Millionaire&quot; format with lifelines and  what have you and we have a real blast!<br />When we want to take a break, we  just pull out the book on the calculation of Pi to 150,000 places and see  who can recite the farthest. Then we have a group hug!	2000-03-13
US	50369929	RT6B31CXLS41C	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Lesson in How to Tell a 100 Page Story in 360 Pages	The Brethren continues to showcase John Grisham's decline to mediocrity.  The premise of the book is very interesting and had a lot of potential, but Grisham made it a very straightforward book, avoiding the complexities that  made his earlier books very entertaining.  If you really stop and think  about it, this story doesn't have much meat to it.<br />Another problem with  this book was that he really doesn't have a hero for the reader to root  for.  I didn't care for the tactics of the three imprisoned judges, nor did  I get enough of a feel for Aaron Lake to care much about him.  Again, this  was something that was a part of his earlier works that has been missing in  recent years.<br />I have said in other reviews of Grisham books that he  cranks these books out way too fast.  You can count on a new Grisham novel  to come out the early part of a year.  I wish Grisham would take his time  and write a really good story, something I know he is capable of doing.	2000-02-28
US	50369929	RZFSFFLQHUFW9	0679454454	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	58	67	N	Y	A Very Entertaining Read - But He's Done Better	Carl Hiaasen's &quot;Sick Puppy&quot; brings back his usual madcap hijinks, something that I felt was missing in his last novel, &quot;Lucky You&quot;.  The crooked politicians are there as is an environmental  terrorist and the ever popular ex-Governor of Florida, Skink.<br />The story  has some extremely hilarious moments.  I particularly liked the 911 calls  listened to by Mr. Gash, they were hilarious!  The bad guys get their  (unusual) due at the end, always a fun thing about a Hiaasen book and Skink  rides off in the sunset waiting to appear again (probably in Hiaasen's book  after the next one - he has a pattern of showing up).<br />My only criticism  is that Hiaasen's books are starting to sound the same.  Twilly Spree, the  environmental terrorist, is like Skip Wiley from Tourist Season.  Palmer  Stoat is like Francis X. Kingsbury from Native Tongue and Desiee Stoat is  like the lead female character in every Hiaasen book.  The only thing he  didn't do this time was have a reporter or former reporter (Hiaasen's  regular gig) as a character in this book.<br />I think Carl Hiaasen needs to  look at a whole new type of plot for his next novel, one that doesn't  involve trying to save the ever-shrinking Florida landscape.  I think he  could really write the ultimate comedy novel if he broaded his horizons.   And with all of the crookedness in Florida, it shouldn't be a problem.	2000-01-16
US	50369929	R1QR4S95NQE03Q	0062702440	116288136	Peanuts: A Golden Celebration: The Art and the Story of the World's Best-Loved Comic Strip	Books	4	73	76	N	Y	Great Book to Have Now That Peanuts is Gone	I bought this book a couple of months before Charles Schulz announced he was retiring Peanuts due to illness.  Now it is very hard to find.<br />The 50th anniversary book is a must for a true Peanuts fan, but it is  disappointing in that it is very poorly edited.  A couple of the same  strips are shown twice (in fact two of the same comic appear right on top  of each other - can't believe no one caught that).  When a series of strips  are presented a couple of times, they are shown out of chronological order.   I also question the need for the section where Schulz shows some letters  sent to him by people criticizing some of his more religious strips; it  just doesn't seem appropriate for a Peanuts  &quot;celebration&quot;.<br />Schulz' insights to some of the comics are  enlightening and even touching at times.  It was also nice to see some of  the older strips that I had never seen before.<br />Overall, it's a good book  to have if you are a true Peanuts fan, but it could have been better.  I'm  hoping that someday we will see a CD-ROM package that will contain all of  the strips in the Peanuts 49+ year history.	2000-01-06
