US	50369644	R1OCCWQ3KBSK0	0761536434	630858517	The Ultimate History of Video Games: From Pong to Pokemon--The Story Behind the Craze That Touched Our Lives and Changed the World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From Pinball to XBox	&quot;Ultimate&quot; is an apt word for the title of this book. Kent covers everything from the beginnings of pinball to the modern day consumer wars between XBox, Playstaion 2, and Nintendo's Game Cube. <br />Whether your an avid gamer, someone interested in the business, or just want to take a stroll down the video game memory lane this book will more than please. Having dropped my fair share of quarters in the arcades and owning numerous video game systems this book had my curiosity peaked. Sure it's mammoth, but once you start it, stopping will be hard. Using non-technical writing with a lot of paraphrases from different industry leaders thrown in, the reading just glides along. The chronology of the piece at times gets ahead of itself but quickly falls back into place without losing its pace. Also, keeping up with the industry personnel can get a bit confusing as CEO's, programmers, and salespeople move from company to company. Kent however does a fine job in explaining who everyone is and what they've done.<br />Besides a better understanding of the business, the biggest thing I got out of this book was a good old case of video game nostalgia. Hearing some of the names of the older, and sometimes forgotten systems (Commodore 64, Jaguar, Colecovision) and their arcade counterparts (Missle Command, Lunar Lander, Sea Wolf) brought back endearing memories of dumping quarters in the &quot;latest&quot; games down at the arcade and sitting up all night trying to figure out the newest game on the Atari 2600. Sure the games today are faster and definately better looking than the ones of yesterday but I'd be lying if, after reading this book, I didn't catch myself on ebay seeing if any of these older games were available.	2002-01-19
US	50369644	R398SVXVX58MJ6	0393320928	406448244	"What Do You Care What Other People Think?": Further Adventures of a Curious Character	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scientific background is not a prerequisite	A lot of books written by scientific people claim to be &quot;down-to-earth&quot; and for the &quot;layman&quot; but end up creeping into the obscure. Not so here. Feynman starts with his feet planted firmly on the ground and never strays. <br />The first few stories range from the serious to the light-hearted. From the pain of losing his wife to being invited to speak at a funeral for a man whom he can't remember. These accounts give you a good look at the ability of Feynman to convey a story and make it interesting. The majority of the book however is given to the time he spent on the committee that investigated the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. Using no nonsense, straight-forward writing he takes you through the process of how he and the others, despite a lot of bureaucratic red tape, managed to find out what went wrong on that fateful day. What could very well be a dry and uninspiring subject becomes quite informative and engaging through his telling.<br />This is my first book by Feynman, but having absorbed the whole thing in one sitting it surely won't be my last.	2002-01-19
US	50369644	R23VVR6CJV2ISE	0671731424	481568206	The Wolf's Hour	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Don't let the premise throw you	A spy/werewolf in WWII helping the Allies defeat the Nazi war-machine? OK. I figured it was going to be a campy, childish horror story that I wouldn't be able to get through. Nevertheless, enjoying McCammon's writing style from his other novels, I decided to give it a try. I'm glad I did because McCammon delivers and comes up with a well-thought-out plot with (dare I say) believable characters, non-stop action, and cliff-hanging suspense.<br />The Allied forces get word from one of their spies in Nazi-occupied France that he has top secret information which could be detrimental to their up-coming D-Day invasion. However, since he is being closley monitored by the Nazis he needs a personal courier to retrieve it. Michael Gallatin, a first-class British spy who unbeknownst to anyone is a werewolf, is coaxed into the assignment. What follows is an action-filled race against time as Gallatin is aided by other agents and underground networks to get this mysterious and vital info before the D-Day invasion only weeks away. And that's only one half of the book. The other half intertwines an interesting and insightful look at how he became a werewolf and his life before he was a spy.<br />This book comes across more like a superbly-written, edge-of-your-seat, spy story whose protagonist just happens to be a werewolf than it does a horror book. I realize that I've used a lot of those catch phrases such as &quot;edge-of-your-seat&quot; and &quot;cliff-hanging suspense&quot; that seem to get thrown around a lot these days on book blurbs. But when I find myself constantly being drawn back to a book to &quot;just see what happens next&quot; there's no other way I can describe it.	2001-10-27
US	50369644	R1TYSOPKSZ4HFG	0380791854	299110267	Lathe of Heaven	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dream awake	When people say that dreams do come true they mean for you personally and not that your dreams impose onto everyone else's life. That however is exactly what happens when George Orr dreams. <br />Written in 1971 about the then not-to-distant future of 2002, Le Guin portrays the world as being full of war, over-population, and being on the brink of environmental disaster (so much for science fiction). Orr is assigned to a drug treatment program after getting caught using other people's prescription allotments to obtain drugs to stop him from dreaming. There he is assigned to a Dr. Haber to help him with his &quot;mental&quot; problem. After realizing the potential such a peculiar skill could unleash, Dr. Haber decides that instead of curing Orr of his problem he would nurture and attempt to control this phenomenon. Upon doing so Haber tries to right all the wrongs of the world (ie. war, famine, disease) by using suggestive influence on Orr when he dreams. This newly found power eventually turns Haber, who at first only had the best intentions for society in mind, into a megalomaniac. As a result of trying to heal all of mankind's wounds he turns the entire world into a homogeneous, &quot;big-brother&quot; type society. <br />Thought-provoking and at times deep, Le Guin shows the possible ramifications when mortal man plays God. The only down-side, if you can call it that, to the book is (as typical) the ending. With unlimited potential for many different endings the one that was chosen seemed a little weak. Don't let this however hinder you from a reading this classic Sci-Fi novel.	2001-08-19
US	50369644	RYDJB4E9IQB42	067946302X	754868365	Never Mind Nirvana: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Coming of age in the age of grunge	God I hate to use the phrase &quot;coming of age&quot; when describing these type stories but I guess that's what they are. <br />As Pete Tyler turns 36 (&quot;almost forty&quot;) he finds himself a semi-successful prosecutor yearning to find that &quot;thing&quot; that'll make him a complete adult. That &quot;thing&quot; seems to take the form of a meaningful relationship. <br />While preparing to prosecute a case against an old fellow rocker for date-rape he finds himself reminiscing about days gone by and where his life is heading. As he takes a look at his life and what he's accomplished he sees that not much has changed since his days as a musician in Seattle's early grunge music scene. He still frequents strip joints, hangs out in seedy music clubs, and dates strippers. The one way he feels he can change his life for the better is to become involved in a serious relationship. This however requires a commitment from him that he doesn't seem ready to make.<br />Lindquist evokes the blase feeling that many Generation X-er's have these days about life in general. &quot;What's this life for?&quot;, &quot;Where am I heading?&quot;. Nothing that generations before us haven't felt, but with his connecting it to the alternative rock scene of the 80's and 90's it becomes more personal to many of us. Overall, an enjoyable read that'll have you thinking of where you were when you first heard that song.	2001-06-17
US	50369644	R3830Q0JZK4IMP	0312977360	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Somewhat misleading title to a great book	By the mere title alone it would seem that this book is just another unimaginative, psycho/slasher thriller. Dobyns however takes an ordinary &quot;search for the missing girls&quot; type story and turns it into a revealing and somewhat dark look at human nature. <br />When young girls begin disappearing from a small, upstate New York town the residents become overwhelmed with the urgency to catch the culprit before he/she strikes again. Narrated by a local biology teacher, the story weaves a finger-pointing tale of how in the hysteria of a crisis, people throw all rational and lucid thoughts aside. Mere suspicion eventually overrides facts and everyone at one point or another becomes suspect. It shows how people need to have a scapegoat in which to focus their own uncertainties. Houari Chihani first becomes this scapegoat when he acquires a postion as a history teacher at the local college. Some of his students form a small club and begin learning Marxism and other ways of thinking about society. Because this rationale is so different from the town's way of thinking they quickly become suspects to the disappearances. However, as time goes on everyone's past actions and acquaintances come into play no matter how trivial they may seem.<br />I didn't find this book to be a thriller in the sense of being overly scary or gory but more along the lines of a very good suspense novel. Dobyns intricately weaves the storyline between characters and events so well that at times you wonder how he can make the connections in a reasonable way but he does. <br />If you've ever lived in Small Town, USA you will notice how the gossip that is generated soon takes on a life of its own. To quote Dobyns, &quot;And once that sort of talk begins, truth or falsehood means nothing. Talk has its own momentum.&quot;	2001-06-17
US	50369644	R1HB0BZ1BOJ1KW	037540838X	133200343	Run	Books	4	0	0	N	N	gun running, gun dealing, gun shots	A gun deal is set to go down with a gang in New York and veteran Washington DC gunrunner Burdon Lane reluctantly gets the assignment of heading it. Along for the ride as mediators are members of DC's notoriously violent and feared street gang The U Street Crew. The meet should go off without a hitch, but when problems such as a five alarm fire and let's just say some unexpected shooting goes on, the deal deteriorates into a free-for-all. As Lane attempts to make his way back to DC to set things straight, everything and everyone he knows isn't exactly what it seems. Never knowing who to trust or what to believe he must just purely rely on his instincts and street smarts to keep him alive.    <br />    Winter weaves a story that makes you skeptical of everyone he introduces you to. You never know which side a person is really on or if they have some hidden agenda. Although the story gets a little far fetched at times, such as when Lane enters a diner after being shot and no one really notices, it doesn't deter from the overall validity of the piece. Gunrunning is a ruthless and risky business and it shows no better than in this novel. The distinct thing about this novel is the exclusion of quotation marks. This could make for a confusing read especially when there is so much quick and indirect dialogue. I however found this to be enlightening to the characters. It tends to make you pay more attention to what is being said and by whom. It also leaves you wondering at times whether or not a character actually said it or just thought it.   Overall, Run is a very well thought out book that keeps the reader on its toes with its explosive amount of action and the uncertainty of who the characters really are.	2001-04-30
US	50369644	RVRGAEF7XHYJB	0446608319	862017203	The Visionary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Run-of-the-mill psycho-thriller	Wanting some light and captivating reading, I stumbled across &quot;The Visionary&quot;. With all of the thriller-type detective books out there it's hard to find a unique twist from the norm. This book promised serial killers, psychics, and &quot;pulse-pounding adventure&quot;. It met the criteria I was looking for so I decided to give it a go. It pretty much delivered.<br />If you're looking for deep insight or edge-of-your-seat theatrics then you may want to look elsewhere. If, on the other hand, you want an easy, straight-forward read with adequate character development and a decent plot then this should suffice. <br />The writing is the thing that kept me flipping through the pages at a decent clip. Passman uses a minimalist, straight-to-the-point style which doesn't require much in the way of imagination. Also, the story has its share of twists and turns to keep you hooked. The only thing that really disappointed me was (as usual) the ending. It made sense, but it just seemed to be thrown together to end the book.<br />All-in-all not a bad read but certainly won't be winning any writing awards any time soon. This book would be ideal for vacation or wiling away a day or two in the summer.	2001-04-04
US	50369644	R1L3VFLASRECQK	0446608319	862017203	The Visionary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Run-of-the-mill psycho-thriller	Wanting some light and captivating reading, I stumbled across &quot;The Visionary&quot;. With all of the thriller-type detective books out there it's hard to find a unique twist from the norm. This book promised serial killers, psychics, and &quot;pulse-pounding adventure&quot;. It met the criteria I was looking for so I decided to give it a go. It pretty much delivered.<br />If you're looking for deep insight or edge-of-your-seat theatrics then you may want to look elsewhere. If, on the other hand, you want an easy, straight-forward read with adequate character development and a decent plot then this should suffice. <br />The writing is the thing that kept me flipping through the pages at a decent clip. Passman uses a minimalist, straight-to-the-point style which doesn't require much in the way of imagination. Also, the story has its share of twists and turns to keep you hooked. The only thing that really disappointed me was (as usual) the ending. It made sense, but it just seemed to be thrown together to end the book.<br />All-in-all not a bad read but certainly won't be winning any writing awards any time soon. This book would be ideal for vacation or wiling away a day or two in the summer.	2001-04-04
US	50369644	R1JAZ8UU81DZVF	0553107755	403168550	Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Vivid, well-written, philosophical comedy	Being a fan of Christopher Moore, Kurt Vonnegut and the like, a friend told me to give Robbins a try. I couldn't have been more pleased. If you like your stories &quot;a little out there&quot; and your writing a bit, if not a tad, on the philosophical side, then Robbins' storytelling will certainly captivate you.<br /> The story of the witty, partying, pedophilic CIA agent, Switters, and the missions that he embarks on seem to just be a catalyst for Robbins to inject his philosophy and abstract views. And inject he does. From religion to government to sex, Robbins' tale puts an interesting twist on the way things are perceived. <br /> I usually get bored when an author verbosely describes things in his/her work, but Robbins' skill of the language and writing makes for a very descriptive and thought-provoking read. Although a thesaurus might be handy to interpret some of his words, it's not needed to enjoy this book. Just start reading and get absorbed in the uniqueness of the journey.  <br />To describe this book in a word... VIVID!	2001-04-01
US	50369644	R2ZDXXE7EZS1MW	0670891681	979604748	Buddha's Little Finger	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Heavy but satisfying read	Pyrotr Voyd finds himself a commissoner to Bolshevik commander Chapaev during the Russian Civil War of 1919. He has fought in battle, found  himself infatuated with a female machine-gunner, and thinks and talks  constantly about man's place in life. The problem? Voyd is a patient in a  present-day Russian mental hospital.<br />Not knowing which life is real, Voyd  and others in his group are subjected to a new psychotherapy treatment  which includes &quot;... patients pooling their efforts in the struggle for  recovery.&quot; After being administered drugs, the collective group  vividly lives the storytellers' drama in their own minds.<br />This book is by  no means an easy read. The incessant talk about &quot;self&quot; and ones'  own place in life and reality is quite taxing at times. Nietzsche,  Aristotle, Leibniz, and a even a bit of Dostoevsky are incorporated by  author Victor Pelevin to help the protagonist find his place in the  universe and himself. Although it was like reading a philosophy book at  times, I found the story presented in a creative and unique way. Pelevin  uses an extraordinary imagination to convey a very complex and  multi-layered story. This novel is Russia's modern day answer to  Dostoevsky's &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot;.	2000-08-24
US	50369644	R3TV7EDZP1MF9N	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Narration of suicide and grief	Why would five seemingly normal teenage girls commit suicide? After  &quot;wierd&quot; Cecilia fails at a first suicide attempt only to  accomplish the task three weeks later, the remaining girls are destined to  meet the same fate.<br />The story is told through the narration of a  neighborhood boy by means of small-community gossip and observations made  by him and his friends. In an almost obsessive watching of the family he  tries to piece together what they must be going through. As the family  slowly retreats into itself after the first suicide the girls especially  become more withdrawn from the outside world, which in itself is gradually  losing its suburban charm as time and surrounding urban plight takes its  toll. Aside from an occasional siting or chance meeting at school the  girls' everyday routines and actions become more mysterious. Until the  whole drama comes to rest with the four other girls suicides all the boy  and his friends have is imagination and wonder as to what is going on in  the house across the street.<br />Some reviews state that there is some humor  in this book. Although strangely not that depressing, I couldn't find any  humor (even dark) in this grim portrayal of suicide and grief. The  &quot;why?&quot; isn't clearly brought about either. This is however a well  written book on the withdrawing of a grieving family and the decaying  neighborhood that encompasses it.	2000-08-23
US	50369644	R3LG08CX0CYQWP	0679745211	507686196	Tooth Imprints On a Corn Dog	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Give this man back his medication	Leyner leaves his &quot;teeth imprints&quot; with the 17 stories, plays, ramblings, and dedications contained within. With his Dennis Miller-ish  vocabulary, Reyner remarks on the absurdity that is prevalent in modern  life.<br />&quot;The Mary Poppins' Kidnapping&quot; throws a nod to the  present censoring of the media. After viewing &quot;Mary Poppins&quot;  three teenagers kidnap an English woman so that they could have a nanny.  This triggers an across the board censorship for anything from &quot;Mary  Poppins&quot; to &quot;The Sound Of Music&quot; stating that it's  &quot;...irresponsible to expose young people from middle- and low-income  families to films depicting ostentatious affluence.&quot; which  &quot;...has the potential for provoking very explosive antisocial  behavior.&quot;<br />&quot;The (Illustrated) Body Politics&quot; exposes that  senators have hidden tattoos that represent their true standings on issues.  In &quot;Oh, Brother&quot;, two Melendez type brothers kill their parents  with Howitzer shells, rocket-propelled grenades and 9mm Luger rounds then  plead innocent using the &quot;imperfect self-defense&quot; concept.  Stating that since their parents were understanding, supportive, and  compassionate towards them, they didn't act like other parents and were  covering up a plot to kill them so they struck first.<br />And that's just the  tip of the iceberg.<br />Writing like Christopher Moore with a newly acquired  thesaurus, Leyner makes you laugh, cringe, and wonder. After possibly the  longest dedication in written history the fun begins. Although he loves  using big words don't be scared off. Bring a dictionary (optional) and an  open mind (mandatory) and enjoy.	2000-08-19
US	50369644	R1JZGTKVUPAW0U	0679442928	520534855	The Sub: A Study in Witchcraft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Witchcraft and suspense. A nice blend.	In Native American belief everyone has an animal representaive on the totem pole that reflects their personality. Being a witch, Diana Turney can  transform people into that animal. Using the powers that she draws from her  deceased, sexually abusive father, Diana uses witchcraft to make her  advisaries &quot;disappear&quot;.<br />When her sister gets sent to jail,  Diana moves in her childhood home as a temporary mother to her niece Kelly  and maid for brother-in-law Carl. While manipulating the family so that she  can get the deed to the home she becomes involved with the innocent Alan.  The product of a rape which sent wrongly accused shaman Jim Cottonwood to  prison, Alan falls in love with Diana and unknowingly helps and hinders her  efforts to destroy her sister and family by turning them and others into  pigs. Only Cottonwood in his supernatural state as a crow can help Alan  before he is rendered to the deadly fate of the others.<br />When looking at  the cover, with its Nazi-like writing in fire, a pig, and an underscore of  &quot;A Study In Witchcraft&quot;, I didn't know whether to expect a WWII  submarine novel or a pig that has black magic abilities. I got neither.  What I did get was a very unique, clever, and suspenseful read.	2000-08-19
US	50369644	R2SFHHR74RVSSE	0843946954	859692408	You Come When I Call You	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Horror for young and old alike	Twenty years ago in the desert of Palmetto, CA a gruesome act took place.  People died, towns burned, and evil was subdued. Now after two decades the  evil is calling again.<br />At the time, three teenagers committed an act that  they felt would quell the evil and stop the demon. After living through  their adolescence with savage hallucinations and hideous nightmares of that  night the evil summons them back to finish what they started.<br />Using  flashbacks, waking dreams, and psychiatric interviews with the participants  taken at the the time of the &quot;crime&quot;, Clegg weaves a complex and  graphic thriller. Maybe a little too complex. As the scenes kept flashing  back and forth from past to present and from real to imaginary I found  myself getting lost in the shuffle. The chapters are short and note when  and where they start off, but some of shifts are sudden and not very  clear.<br />I was debating on whether to give it 3 or 4 stars due to some of  the jerky pace and somewhat sophmoric writing, but then I realized that the  book is probably meant more for readers in their teens and early twenties.  Although older horror fans would definately appreciate this very  discriptive book, I feel that the younger adult crowd would thouroughly  absorb it. It reminds me of reading King, Koontz, and Saul when I was a  teenager.	2000-08-11
US	50369644	R3V5794UV6F86O	039594113X	500972804	Hunts in Dreams	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Great writing, bland story	Searching for stability and an overall sense of purpose in life is the  underlying theme to Tom Drury's latest novel. Set in a mundane, midwestern  town over the course of an October weekend, the characters seek out  personal comfort in their dreary lives.<br />In an attempt to connect back  with his long-lost childhood and stepfather, Charles Darling goes to any  length to retrieve a sentimental shotgun. His wife Joan retreats to a  weekend, animal-shelter seminar while trying to find happiness in her  otherwise lack-luster marriage. Her orphaned daughter returns home trying  to gain a solid stepping stone into adulthood. And their young son Micah  inquizzitively explores what reality his little world holds.<br />Although  wonderfully written, I didn't really connect to the characters or much care  about their plight. It just seemed like, young or old, everyone hit a  mid-life crisis at the same time. There are no great issues tackled here,  just the overall blandness that life con sometimes produce and how one  family dealt with it.	2000-08-08
US	50369644	R1JY1W83KC7BAS	0375407251	68265959	The Many Aspects of Mobile Home Living	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Relaxing read	Part legal thriller, part humor, and even a bit spiritual, &quot;The Many Aspects...&quot; is a very smooth and relaxing read.<br />Circuit court judge Evers Wheeling finds himself, his pot smoking, heavy drinking brother and  friends on a cross-country journey from N.C. to Utah to retrieve a hidden  treasure. The treasure comes by the way of a mystical woman who cries  pearly tears, Ruth Esther English. She promises a part of the fortune to  Evers if he will drop her brother's case when he appears in court before  him. Prompted by a sense of the wealth and a sense of adventure, Evers  agrees.<br />As the group sets off to retrieve the treasure they are joined by  Ruth Esther's almost militant-like, black lawyer Pauletta. Some of the  books funniest moments occur when the conservative, southern-bred Evers and  Pauletta trade barbs.<br />The treasure, stolen drug money, is also found to  include a mysterious letter that Ruth Esther goes to any length necessary  to keep to herself. Curious about the content of the letter and the  mysterious tears that Ruth Esther produces (which they believe are  wish-bearing and build a shrine for) the group sets out to find the truth  behind it all. In doing so and as their wishes come true, they reveal  hidden and truths and feelings about themselves that they didn't even know  existed.<br />It may seem weird, but while reading this book I was taken in by  a sense of tranquility. Clark has a very calm and soothing way of writing.  Instead of the sudden and abrupt plot twists and turns associated with  thrillers, the &quot;go with the flow&quot;, almost melting-like writing is  like a breath of fresh air. Although containing no real edge-of-your-seat,  nail biting theatrics, there is plenty of suspense and intrique to keep the  reader thouroughly engrossed.	2000-08-01
US	50369644	R2Y4H2MSQ4GZU0	0375502661	418576489	A&R: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not just for music buffs	Being a huge fan of music and interested in the backroom dealings of the industry, I just had to read this book. After reading almost the whole thing in one sitting, it didn't disappoint.<br />A&amp;R is an intriguing  novel of power-struggle and greed set against the backdrop of the  cut-throat music industry. Not the usual story of up-and-coming bands  getting taken advantage of by their record companies, but one of how record  execs themselves fall prey to one another.<br />Jim Cantone lands a once in a  lifetime job as head of A&amp;R at a major record label. Instead of just  discovering and nuturing new talent, Jim quickly learns that alliances and  loyalty play a bigger role in surviving. Having to deal with back-stabbing,  conniving co-workers and attorneys to &quot;out of touch&quot; CEOs,  Cantone himself starts to lose his own sense of self. <br />With tales of how  bands are used as pawns between record execs to the manipulation of  musicians' careers just to feed egos, Flanagan writes with the conviction  of an industry insider. Although the theme of the book is music and its  business, anyone interested in an entertaining and captivating story should  check this out. Musical interest is helpful but not a pre-requisite.	2000-07-31
US	50369644	R29YWGZXFSE3QU	1573221619	4143821	Pastoralia	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A melancholy look at modern life	There are some very imaginative and witty scenarios played out in the six stories contained within. However, I didn't find them particularly as humorous as I did bleek and disturbing. For instance, there's the man and  woman in the title story that play cavepeople to an audience of no one but  have to keep up the facade in order to keep a job. Then there's the man who  visits a motivational speaker and as he finally musters up the courage to  make a drastic change in his life, his dreams come crashing down as he's  faced with his reality. The book probably isn't intended to be this dark,  but that's the underlying feeling I got from it. I still give Saunders 4  stars for his quirky and off-the-wall writing style. Interpretation is  everything with this book.	2000-07-22
US	50369644	R1EOI7341I7BXP	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Who's on first?	The best way that I can find to describe this book is Abbott and Costello's infamous &quot;Who's on first?&quot; routine. The entire plot and interaction between characters is a mish-mash of miscommunication. The  characters run the gamet of absurdity. From the main character Yossarian,  the bombardier who thinks that everyone is out to get him personally  because they are trying to kill him in a war. To the private, who is  running a black market between countries and enemies, selling anything and  everything he can get his hands on. To the colonel who feels that the  success of the army depends on whether or not he can provide a good parade.  The list goes on and on.<br />   The plot weaves back and forth in time and  can get somewhat confusing at times, but then again if you're not on your  toes this whole book could get away from you. I found the best thing to do  is just find a quiet place and let yourself get absorbed in the  ridiculousness. The best way to sum up this satirical look on war is this:  &quot;Catch 22&quot; IS a catch-22.	2000-07-22
US	50369644	RK7E6JNHIDDZ5	1585420271	438817963	Quitting the Nairobi Trio	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Slackjaw revisited	After a nearly succesful suicide attempt with scotch and sleeping pills, Knipfel ends up in the harrowing and frustrating world of the mental ward. While trying to prove his &quot;sanity&quot; to his hospital appointed  psychiatrist he finds himself locked in a no-win situation. First of all,  he only meets with him for one half-hour session once a week. Secondly, if  he tells him he's not really crazy then he's looked upon as a liar, and if  he admits he does have a few &quot;psychotic breaks&quot; then he'll never  get out. Add to this an array of severely mentally ill people and a  non-chalant nursing staff and it's a wonder that he could keep whatever  sanity he had intact.<br />In this prequel to &quot;Slackjaw&quot;, Knipfel  delves deeply into the dark feelings of &quot;will I ever get out of  here&quot; and &quot;what if they don't really believe that I'm  sane?&quot;. It can seem a little hopeless and maddening at times, but  Knipfel always seems to come away with a brighter way of looking at things.	2000-07-18
US	50369644	R1EPQCYSBUL16Y	0425173305	277757276	Slackjaw	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Depressing fun	Knipfel is a legally blind, suicidal, alcoholic, philosophy major who knows how to look at the brighter (or at least the more humorous) side of life. Without taking the typical &quot;Why me?&quot; or &quot;Poor me&quot;  route as many people would, he incorporates the &quot;just deal with  it&quot; attitude. I wouldn't consider this a happy or feel-good about  yourself book by any means. It's just the memoirs of a man who has been  through a lot and can weave a good story out of the experiences. Some of  the events have probably been exaggerated a bit to make them more  compelling, but even so the underlying feeling is there.<br />A quick and easy  read told by a good storyteller. I'm starting his next book &quot;Quitting  the Nairobi Tribe&quot; now, and can't wait to see what happens next.	2000-07-13
US	50369644	R22NZXIF2NTKWY	0070572615	700414099	Schaum's Outline of Precalculus	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Immense help	I bought this book while taking a 6 week college pre-calc summer course. Being that the course was dramatically shortened from the normal 16 weeks to 6 weeks due to the summer curriculum, any extra help available was  crucial. By using this book in conjunction with the regular school book, it  made it a lot easier to understand things like functions, graphs, logs, and  quadratics. This text pretty much follows right along with the in class  book but provides many examples with more detailed solutions and different  ways of solving them. I received a &quot;B&quot; in the class. Without this  book, how knows?	2000-07-03
US	50369644	RZ2SV5W1PWYVH	0385306849	421543512	Saucerful of Secrets: The Pink Floyd Odyssey	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Secrets revealed	Though the bad blood between Roger Waters and David Gilmour is no big secret, here we start to understand how it and the biggest band in &quot;psychodelic&quot; music came about. From its &quot;crazy&quot;  founder Syd Barrett to the Roger Water's &quot;The Wall&quot; concert in  Berlin, Schaffner shows how egos and talent built and tore apart this band.  <br />&quot;Saucerful..&quot; seems a bit one sided at times. Waters is almost  always depicted as a need-to-be-in-charge egomanic, and despite being  kicked out of the band some 25 odd years ago, Barrett's story takes up  almost half of the book. This doesn't however take away from the  information that's presented here. All of the thoughts, feelings, and  goings-on that were present during the making of &quot;Dark Side...&quot;,  &quot;Atom Heart Mother&quot;, &quot;Animals&quot;, &quot;The Wall&quot;,  and all the other great   Floyd albums are well described here.<br />This book  is a must read for any Floyd fan to see how it all became to be.	2000-07-01
US	50369644	R3N22OEV2Y99CG	0312262884	906030078	Damned If You Do: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Silly to serious	As the main character,a corpse brought back from the dead to become an apprentice to Death, follows along and aids Death in helping people meet their seemingly untimely demise, he reflects back on his own short life.  While the reincarnated zombie is with Death and his comrades (War,  Pestilence, and Famine) the writing is darkly humorous with light and witty  banter between the demonic factions. However, as the zombie reflects back  on his own life and how he died, the book takes on a serious and somewhat  depressing feel.     Trying to remember how he died, he rehashes some old  feelings about the only true love that he lost and what it really means to  live. And what exactly &quot;living&quot; really is.<br />  Houghton has the  same dry, dark humor that Neil Gaiman displays in &quot;Good Omens&quot;.  The book moves along nicely with quick interludes between the sorrowful  past and the deadly present. Suspence builds in seeing if the zombie will  become an apprentice of Death or have to be killed by the end of the week  if he doesn't please &quot;the Chief&quot; with his performance. If the end  result is death then he must chose one of the methods with which he used  earler in the week with Death to do away with the &quot;Lifers&quot;. None  of the very imaginative deaths seem like a good choice. Or could he cheat  Death altogether the second time around?	2000-06-29
US	50369644	R3HLOPNVYKPIBJ	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	5	8	9	N	N	As seen from the other side	Conover does an excellent job of giving an unbiased view of the unseen turmoils that a correction officer (CO) must face day in and day out. Without the bite of a former, disgruntled employee or a prisioner with a  hidden agenda, Conover writes a book that is basically a realistic diary of  everyday life in prison. You get to understand that some of the most  fundamental things in life (ie. talking, showering) can become the most  crucial things when   a person is deprived of them. The CO is the middle  man between the court that imposed the sentence and the inmate who must  serve the time. There are many examples given of how they must walk that  fine line between following the rules and bending a few in order to avoid  utter chaos. Although Conover does lend a little bit of his own opinion on  punishment here and there, this book is made to be read and digested  however the reader sees fit. Being the son of a CO in a maximum security  prison I have even more respect for what a typical day could entail for  him. So whether you consider them Correction Officers or just  &quot;overpaid baby-sitters&quot; it's a mentally and physically tough job  that probably not many people could handle.	2000-06-23
US	50369644	RTGFO08VA17JO	038548254X	721618988	A Mathematician Reads the Newspaper	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It'll make you skeptical	This book will make you wonder about every &quot;statistic&quot; that you've ever seen reported. Not really a &quot;math&quot; book per se, but just showing that by applying some probability, philosophy, and  a point to  get across, you can manipulate numbers any way that you'd like. Although  the text varies widely from the &quot;headlines&quot; of the chapters at  times, the basic jist of the examples come across. Paulos could have used  exact news events more often, but the basic theories that he explains could  be (and are) applied to current news events. No need to get deep into math  with this book. Just see how the spin doctors work out stats and opinions  to their advantage. Like Paulos points out about the farmer who hangs up  the targets that with all of the bulleyes shot out of them. When asked how  he shot them so accurately, he said, &quot;No problem. I just shoot the  target and then draw the circle around it.&quot;	2000-06-18
US	50369644	R35EAD3R4HNTIZ	0786704632	943888341	By Reason of Insanity	Books	5	15	15	N	N	BEST PSYCHO-THRILLER I'VE READ	Shane Stevens sure has a way of telling a story. This book weaves in and out of different sub-plots effortlessly. The way that some of them are linked to a serial killer is amusing within itself. Stevens offers a broad  array of view points on a serial killer and the true evil that lurks in  people just for their own personal gain. The book may seem to slow down at  some points but just stick with it. When the different plots and characters  start interacting you won't be able to put this one down. Truly a great  psycho-thriller. Also recommended is &quot;Blackburn: A novel&quot; by  Bradley Denton.	2000-01-29
