US	50378047	R3H65MH64VVHHN	1932586121	135681198	Crippled Dreams	Books	5	21	23	N	N	From Hardship to Light	In \\"Crippled Dreams\\" the reader is drawn into the settings of the book due to the detail that has been so eloquently painted by the author. The events, location and attention to each facet that keep one entranced not in just what the main character is doing but actually lets the reader feel the warmth of the sun, the sound of the water and the tension or tenderness in the words of the people.  Despite the hardships that Alexandre faces in his life, from his brother to the townspeople, he is shown the one thing that may perhaps turn his life around, love. <br /> <br />The book helps the reader to review life and possibly see that even hardships can be overcome with the right attitude or the right devotion. I found this book to be an intriguing tale and certainly well worth the read despite the fact that this style of book was outside the norm for me. It mixed an immense combination of facts, life and God into a great story that led me to ponder whether the book is based on true facts or completely fiction.  <br />	2004-12-21
US	50378047	R20BT9MOJ36TQ0	1587218372	920919549	Bushido: A Modern Adaptation of the Ancient Code of the Samurai	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More than just antiquated codes	Bushido brings to light a modern look at an antiquated code of honor.  Taking the sections of the Japanese code of the Samurai, the book is presented with fresh ideas built from years of experience.  The mixture of stories, historical facts and theological representation provides a great combination to enlighten not just the warrior, but to the everyday person.<br />The original code of bushido teaches honor, integrity and discipline to the warrior class of ancient Japan.  Bushido shares the same base values and adds thought to incite the reader into showing the true warrior in each of us.  One could be brought into a true warrior mentality from just a few chapters of this book.<br />This book has value for men and women alike, allowing to them to see that there is more to life than antiquated codes to live by.  It is a refreshing look at the codes that can shed some light on the way we live and provoke us into thinking about why we live not just how we live.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R2CK5SXDDKQAT1	1850783578	467618555	Operation World - 21st Century Edition, Updated and Revised Edition (When We Pray God Works)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A must for every library	Operation World is a great compilation of information about every country in the world.  It gives facts, figures and dates of importance for each country and it gives the reader prayer needs for each country.  Among the pages you will find not just the prayer needs but how some of the country's prayers have been answered in the recent past.<br />Whether you are a missionary or someone that needs facts and figures for different countries, this book will provide what you are looking for.  As a missionary myself, I find the information within the pages invaluable.  A good friend of mine who is into historical facts and knowledge was elated with the information.  My son is also using it for his Social Studies class.<br />Do not let this book pass you by.  It is a great addition to everyone's library regardless of what information you are seeking about countries.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R2PLFW12RKVHGP	0760308551	546376518	101st Airborne: The Screaming Eagles at Normandy	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Historical Document	Using the mixture of photography, facts and quotes, 101st Airborne: The Screaming Eagles At Normandy, can serve as a great historical document.  Within the pages of this great book, eye-catching photographs bring to light those events from World War II and the Normandy Invasion.  The actions and reactions of the soldiers that fought in that war are caught forever through the historical eye of a camera, through famous and infamous quotes and accounts of the heroes from World War II.<br />The pages show the heightened moral and anticipation of the men prior to the invasion.  Then the reader is brought into the middle of the battle with stories and quotes not just eye-opening photographs.  This technique brings you side by side with the people of the villages and into the ranks of the soldiers marching off to fight another battle.  I believe one of the best chapters is the true story of the movie Saving Private Ryan.  This chapter, Saving Sergeant Niland, shows the true-life drama of a man that Hollywood has made famous.<br />The book brings to light some of the things that are never seen in movies and footage of events of the war.  I am sure that this book, as well as its predecessor The 101st Airborne at Normandy, will bring back memories of the way it was behind the lines during that part of the war to those who served.  Even though there is a predecessor to this book both stand independent of each other.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R2FNQQ4FRV9H6D	0830718583	956382903	What the Bible Says About Healthy Living: Three Biblical Principles That Will Change Your Diet and Improve Your Health	Books	5	32	35	N	N	If I had only had this book sooner	Are you eating and living the way you should?  The Bible gives us instructions on how we are to live and be well.  What the Bible Says About Healthy Living is a great book that shows us how we are to live and what foods are better for us.  It describes how the Creator or Great Designer gave us certain foods to keep us healthy and live for many years to come.<br />By giving you the foods that you should and should not eat, as well as the reasons why, the text incites a positive reaction by all who read it.  By presenting the information to you, a guideline is formed so that you can see what is good for you and what is not.  Also, by following the principles within the book, you will start feeling better about yourself both physically and spiritually.<br />This book is for those that are looking for a great eating plan to maybe lose weight or to overcome a sickness.  Because a physician wrote it, there are a lot of medical facts included as well as scriptures to back up what he is saying.  This book provides answers to many questions.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R31837XM01HUIW	0801038596	326738463	Answering Islam: The Crescent in Light of the Cross	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Informative and then some	Taking an apologetic view of Islam and Christianity, this book offers something for everyone.  Answering Islam is broken out into three main parts to help one understand the different religions.  It describes the foundation of the Orthodox Islamic religion followed by the Christian Response to Basic Muslim Beliefs and then closed out by A Positive Defense of the Christian Perspective.  To provide a non-biased opinion, the book was written by a Muslim and a Christian author.<br />The book gets into a lot of detail about how the Islamic religion came into being and how it was developed.  It then proceeds to show how Christianity compares and contrasts to Islam.  This is a great benefit for anyone who has a heart for ministering or just understanding the Islamic religion.  To close out the main portion of the book, the reader is brought into the Christian view and shown how to defend Christianity to a follower of Islam.<br />Answering Islam is a must read for missionaries or future missionaries that will encounter Muslim believers.  It is a great source of information for those that desire to know more about Islam and their belief system. It is also a great fact filled book for those wanting to know more about Christianity or Cross-Culturalism.  Regardless of which area you might fall into, this book is a definite addition to any home library.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R332FHP9XR477U	1577780728	859183947	Jesus Freaks: Stories of Those Who Stood for Jesus, the Ultimate Jesus Freaks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More than a Step of Faith	What would you do for Christ?  Is He your Lord and Savior?  This incredible book talks about the trials some Christians will go through to prove their loyalty to Jesus Christ.  I am amazed at the strength of conviction that some Christians hold and the extent to which they will suffer in mind and body before reaching their personal limit.  To some this suffering results in martyrdom.<br />The compilation of stories are not just from a time when Jesus walked the earth and talked to people who would later become martyrs, but those people who have felt the power of Jesus today.  Whether adult or child, there is one common thread in all of the stories within Jesus Freaks.  This thread, as the name implies is Jesus Christ.  The book will open your eyes to supernatural powers that will simply astound you.<br />This book shows the lives of Christians whose faith was strong enough to withstand the ultimate challenge.  For non-Christians who would like examples of strength of conviction of some Christians, they need only look to the examples in this book.  The format of the book is such that it is easy to read and allows for reading short sections at a time.  I believe with all of my heart that this book tells it like it is and foreshadows of the things to come.	2003-01-17
US	50378047	R8ODC7HTQ49NO	0972018409	71128727	ABSolution: The Practical Solution for Building Your Best Abs	Books	5	13	15	N	N	ABSolutely Fabulous	Inspiring!  That is the first word that comes to mind when I think about this book.  \\"ABSolution\\" is a great book for showing us how we can get in shape. By the time you reach the end of the book you will understand that building abs is not just about exercising those \\"trouble\\" spots, it is a way of life.<br />The book gives complete instructions on how to build perfect abdominal muscles.  It doesn't give you just abdominal exercises, it also shows you other exercises, discusses supplements, and has a great section on nutrition.  The text does not go into detail about what every meal should consist of, but instead it describes how your eating patterns should be developed.  This helps you focus on a lifestyle change and not a \\"diet\\".  It also highlights reasons why we should not just do sit-ups for our abdominal muscles.  Instead, it shows you exercises that have been proven to build those perfect abdominal muscles.<br />Whether you are a person with perfect \\"six-pack\\" abs or a person that could use a little workout, this book was created with you in mind.  Don't hesitate to buy and read this book.  I believe it holds the key to building the perfect body, as well as a great set of \\"abs\\".	2002-08-05
US	50378047	R3PTN5OZ4GQHD0	0800792602	601323194	They Shall Expel Demons: What You Need to Know about Demons - Your Invisible Enemies	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Become In Tune to the Ministry of Jesus	\\"They Shall Expel Demons\\" is a jewel among all other books on deliverance.  The author's tremendous level of knowledge shows through in this highly readable book.  Among the pages you will find not just what type of demons or spirits operate in the life of a person but the reasons that one might become possessed.  It will open the eyes of most people who feel pressured and often use \\"the devil made me do it\\" as the excuse for their actions.<br />\\"They Shall Expel Demons\\" forces the reader to ponder the differences between the need for healing and the need for deliverance.  While there are many sicknesses that are of a common biological nature, the text shows that evil spirits may cause some sicknesses.  There are battles fought in the heavens and battles fought here on earth and through the Biblical foundation you are shown the realism of the fight between \\"good and evil\\".<br />This book is for those interested in understanding the ministry of Christ and those who want to understand the different battlefields on which Christian battles are fought.  It will prove to be a valuable asset to all Christian libraries and is a definite must for an Evangelical.  I feel there should be more books as direct as this one.  It gets to the point, shows examples, and provides a great solid base, which is the Word of God.	2002-08-05
US	50378047	R38S762ZUWZQN2	0842300988	775448504	Are We Living in the END TIMES?	Books	5	16	24	N	N	Prophecy Simply Explained	What a fabulous book!  The title of the book is a question that resounds through the minds of many.  Are we living in end times?  The text points out current events that were predicted in prophetic passages. This book was written for two reasons.  The first is as a guide for the millions of readers of the Left Behind Series, showing where and how the facts were put together for the storyline in the book.  The second is for those people wondering, are we living in end times?<br />The examples in the book help the reader to understand what has happened throughout history and what is to come. The text compares different books of the Bible as well as passages within the same books.  Most of the scriptural references are pulled from Isaiah, Daniel and the controversial book of Revelation. Regardless of your current opinion, the authors present many facts to back up their opinion in the book.  It promotes free-thinking and discusses the differences between Pre-tribulation, Post-tribulation, and Mid-tribulation theologies.<br />This book is written for any person wanting to dive into the world of prophetic scripture.  While written with Christians in mind, the book will appeal to non-Christians wanting to know more about things to come and what God has in store for the world.  Even though no one knows the date and time in which the tribulation will happen, except the Lord God, this book will help ease the minds of many and get others to understand more about the \\"thief in the night\\".  I feel that this is one of the best books on prophecy in many years.  It is a must for any Christian library and should be everyone's library.	2002-08-04
US	50378047	R2OH3RJG39O7TQ	044652428X	765598795	Come to the Table: A Celebration of Family Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Increasing Family Time	In missing the way things use to be, we often miss the value of the role the kitchen or dining room table has played within a family.  Nothing can replace the memories of time spent at the table.  \\"Come to the Table\\", reminds us of a time when things were simpler and family moments were more frequent.  It shows the value of quality time and the little things we can do as family members to catch a glimpse of yesteryear.<br />The book gives real life examples of things that other families have done to bring life back into the family.  Whether it is having a special plate and awarding it to the person of the day or a special display on the table, the book will change the way the reader looks at mealtime, homework, or game time around the table.<br />Come to the Table\\" is written for families, and those persons within the family, that want to increase the constructive time spent with family members.  Even by implementing just one of the ideas within the book, the reader can capture time so it becomes a special moment.  It also helps build self-confidence in some members of the family and allows all of them to look forward to the time spent around the table.  This book should be required reading for all members of the household, but especially those responsible for each family member's welfare.	2002-08-04
US	50378047	R366TTV4VUWT4C	1576751074	200068850	The 100 Absolutely Unbreakable Laws of Business Success	Books	5	2	3	N	N	If You Break Them...You are Losing Out!	From a person who has created success, this book provides fabulous insight into what is required for anyone who wants to be successful.  The book is broken into easy to read chapters and headings for each of the laws, followed by easy to understand descriptions.  Even if you implement just one of the laws, you will see a change in your business.<br />With helpful anecdotes, you will understand why these laws should not be broken.  You will see how these laws provide a successful career pattern for any person.  You don't need a formal education to be able to apply the laws from the book.  The book should be read as soon as you buy it because if you hesitate to read it you will delay your success.<br /><br />I asked several of my successful friends to read the book and tell me what they thought of the \\"laws\\".  They all agreed that if there are laws to success then these are the most important ones. I recommended it to several other people working their way up the corporate ladder. As a result of reading the book they were able to climb more than one rung at a time.  If your competitors are reading it, you may soon find yourself looking for a new job.  This book should be required reading for all business students prior to graduation and for all people trying to get ahead in today's world.  You will soon see why there is more to business than the school of \\"hard knocks\\".	2002-08-04
US	50378047	R1BC0ZRHD6VLZ2	0736904581	721842614	The Transparent Leader	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Seeing Clearly The Leaders of Today	Being a leader in todays world is not what it used to be.  There was a time, when a leader was tough, rugged and quiet.  That time is no more.  It is time for leaders to let their guard down, to show their true selves, to lead by following and to lead by example.  The Transparent Leader shows many of todays national leaders in this light.  It shows them being transparent, vulnerable and initially with no protection.  Along the same lines of Jesus, they step into the worlds of other people and lead them, ultimately showing the way to the one true God.  It shows who these leaders were, the situations they were in and how they succeeded in becoming great leaders.  All of them have one thing in common; they all know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Saviour.<br />The text shows leaders who have failed, where they failed, and how they came to succeed.  The leaders within the compilation tell their story, either via testimony or anecdote.  Some open their entire lives to the reader so they can see the heart of the storyteller.  Although the booklover might not be able to identify with all of the passages throughout the book, there is no doubt that more than one will hit the heart and soul of the reader.<br />Should this book be required reading for all future leaders of the world?  I believe that it should.  It offers inspiration to those people who are not yet world leaders and it offers a reality check for those who are in the top echelon of leadership.	2002-08-04
US	50378047	RPMXOVDQ41B22	1881273156	277335936	The Five Love Languages: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Becoming Close to Your Mate	This book far exceeds John Gray's Mars and Venus series on many levels.  Each part of a relationship really is brought into five language choices.  Regardless if your \\"love language\\" is \\"spoken\\" by Acts of Service, Words of Affirmation, Physical Touch, Gifts, or Quality Time, this book will explain how to express them and how to \\"speak\\" to your mate via their love language.  The information within the book can be used on many relationship levels - spouse, friends, and even co-workers.<br />Even if you think \\"a love language for my co-workers?\\" this book will show you how to speak to them.  Some of your co-workers need you to speak their language in order to be understood.  This book puts you one step ahead of the game for work as well as your personal life.<br />Half the fun for couples is finding out what language your spouse speaks.  After determining the language, an entirely new realm opens for you to explore the possibilities.<br />Couples should read this book to really understand how to speak to their mate.  Leaders should read this book to understand how to speak to their subordinates.  Single people should read this book to understand the other person in their relationships.  \\"The Five Love Languages\\" is worth its weight in gold and has improved many relationships of people that I see on a regular basis.	2002-08-04
US	50378047	RE2FKIWUL0KGN	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Changes for Life	As the name implies, this book provides examples of how to build that Body for Life.  The book explains in simple terms how to lose weight, tone muscle and become overall physically fit amazed me.  The success stories show real life people overcoming obstacles and being able to do the things they always wanted to do.<br />This book is written for those people who do not feel comfortable going to the gym and for those who just cannot get motivated to work out past the first couple of weeks.  This 12-week program is designed for all people and it is written in a language that anyone can understand.  The book shows you not only how to set up a workout routine, but also an eating and maintenance routine.<br />I have seen results, not only in myself, but in other people who have tried the program.  Even for those who feel they cannot accomplish the 12-week challenge, this book will motivate you to complete what you have started and honor self-promises.  For those who hesitate, rest assured the book will more than pay for itself within a short period of time by showing you how to improve your health and overall well-being.	2002-08-04
US	50378047	R39FTNETAEU7XQ	1581822766	906937617	Why a Daughter Needs a Dad: A Hundred Reasons	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Don't Let This One Slip Through Your Hands!	A fabulous book for fathers everywhere!  This book really gives insight and direction for those that need a little push.  The easy to read format allows anyone to pick up the book and get something out of it quickly.  The photographs and words cause you to reflect on special moments of the past and shine a light on your future as a father.<br />On every page the reader is reminded of just what the book is about.  \\"A Daughter Needs A Dad\\" is the opening statement and is followed by nuggets of golden wisdom for every daddy.  The photographs help you to recall when your girl was just a young child. They also show you times when your little girl has grown up and desires those special moments shared with dad.<br />This book is definitely for fathers everywhere.  It is for those that have little girls or for those whose daughters have grown into women.  I urge you not to let this one slip out of your hands.  The information contained within the pages is so powerful, you will read it time and time again, to see if you missed any of the nuggets of wisdom.	2002-07-02
US	50378047	R1CUEKEM56K3V	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	5	8	16	N	N	Increase Your &quot;Territory&quot;	Using the story of Jabez from the book of Chronicles, this book shows how we can expand on what we now have.  By understanding the simple prayer of a man named Jabez, the reader will see how prayer works to manifest a greater presence of God as well as expanding their own \\"territory\\".  This story from the Old Testament will help you grow both mentally and spiritually.<br />Jabez, whose name translates to \\"pain\\", needed a way to show he was responsible and trustworthy enough to handle God's anointing, if only he had the chance.  He was able to pray to God and request his desires, in hopes that God would answer his prayers.  Then in turn, Jabez showed God he was able to handle the territory expansion he is blessed with.<br />This book provides more than \\"Christian hype\\", it provides insight and understanding into the world of prayer to Almighty God.  It helps you to understand how to request and deal with responsibility you feel is warranted in your life.  The Prayer of Jabez is great for any reader desiring a more intimate relationship with God.  It is a beneficial addition to any library.	2002-07-01
US	50378047	R3V53RMMA0PZZV	0842330364	867579056	Leadership Devotions	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Leadership at its finest	Regardless of whether you are a great leader or are working to achieve successful leadership, this book provides great devotions. If you are searching for something on motivation then you look under the subject heading of motivation and see what stories are available. Each story is motivating, inspiring, and has modern day settings.<br />The stories are from some of the great leaders of today as well as some from the not so distant past. The devotions will assist any leader in determining a solution for an issue. Leadership Devotions are accompanied by scriptural references so you do not just read what someone else has said or done, but what God says about the same topic.<br />A great addition for any leader's library, \\"Leadership Devotions\\", should be on the shelf of all leaders. It doesn't matter whether you are a leader of many, few, or one, this book will stimulate you to become a great leader.	2002-06-28
US	50378047	R37SL5U0PKHVVU	1401021492	505659989	Most Favored Nation	Books	5	7	7	N	N	AWESOME and THRILLING	Along the lines of Clancy, this book provides an action packed story line.  It gives the reader a look into what might be considered a futuristic world.  As the story progresses, you are drawn into the text and into the lives of the main characters.  While they live their new lives under government rule, we see it unfold into a fabulous tale of disclosure among the man and wife and their reaction to it.<br />Filled with actual facts and details, this book draws you into each page.  The tale combines real life drama and facts from today's headlines.  It shows why we need to study, read, and memorize the Bible, for one day it may be taken away from us.<br />This book is for everyone who wants to read a good fiction novel.  Although not thick in pages, it is definitely thick in story.  The book provides for those having short bursts of reading time with short powerful chapters.  I look forward to more books written in this style and will be first in line to get a copy.	2002-06-28
US	50378047	R2W46O3OEC0S5M	1576739759	295364032	Secrets of the Vine: Breaking Through to Abundance	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Best kept Secret	The Secrets of the Vine shows Christians how they are to have a personal relationship with our Lord, Jesus Christ.  Using the parable of the vinedresser from John 15 in the Bible, this book provides valuable insight into the ways in which we are to become more intimate with the Father.  The reason for the parable is to learn how God \\"prunes\\" us in order to prepare us for bearing more spiritual fruit.<br /><br />By allowing us free will, God has allowed us to make our own choices throughout life.  This book shows us how to see just how close we can become to our spiritual Father in heaven.  It provides valuable information for developing the relationship that we should have as opposed to the \\"fire insurance\\" of having Christ as our Savior alone.  There is so much more to a relationship with Christ than just saying a prayer to accept Him into our lives.  Building that relationship is exhilarating and necessary for us to live as productive Christians throughout the rest of our lives.<br />This book has value for Christians and non-Christians alike, allowing them to see that there is more to life than to just exist.  This book is the second in the series but more than adequately provides beneficial information to be read by itself.  Pick up \\"Secrets of the Vine\\" and see why this book is a crucial part of any believer's life.	2002-06-28
US	50378047	R2LYFO26OVAS6B	0802464475	256145746	People Raising: A Practical Guide to Raising Support	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Deputation at its finest	For missionaries that are responsible for raising their own support, this book is a must. Regardless if you are new to mission work and new to support raising or a veteran missionary with a continuing need to raise support; this book has definite and practical guidelines and tips that anyone will understand. The text not only brings the Biblical basis for raising support and deputation to light, but also illustrates how to train yourself.<br /><br />The design of the book shows you, in example format, real life scenarios and encourages study within a self-paced atmosphere. Because of its design, many people can come together and use the group study portion of the book, which allows for discussions and other interaction. The examples are clear and in step-by-step format. It even shows you how to write letters and word them to be more effective.<br />I highly recommend this book to any and all missionaries interested in gathering financial or prayer support. Fund and support raising is not something I was excited about until after I finished this book. I was so pleased with People Raising, I recommended it to several of my close missionary friends who are in need of financial support.	2002-06-26
US	50378047	RHFE7A84XW5SE	0875522181	905186457	Go and Make Disciples!: An Introduction to Christian Missions	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Missionology 101 and then some	GO and Make Disciples is a must read for any existing or potential missionary.  The facts, figures and how-to sections were more than informative.  This book provides not only the basics of missionology but leads you to the next steps for anyone feeling the call of God.<br />The Biblical basis of missions and why some people are called to be missionaries is at the very foundation of missionary service.  This foundation shows what God has in store for the missionary as well as the people he will be serving.  Throughout the pages, one will clearly see that foundation and why it is so important.  The text also shows what to expect on the field by providing examples from such great missionaries as Jesus and the Apostle Paul.  As the reader peruses the pages, not only does the Biblical basis for becoming a missionary become clear, but also the issues that one could possibly face on the mission field, including interaction with religions other than Christianity.<br />The Trinity of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit echo in each part of a missionary's mind, body and spirit throughout the entire book.  Whether the reader is a potential candidate for mission work or a veteran missionary, this book will provide insight and practicality.  Because it was so full of useful information and was the first book of this type that I have read, I felt I needed to read it a second time to make sure I did not miss anything important.  I highly recommend this book to anyone considering mission work.	2002-05-14
US	50378047	R2O66K08P1Z0I1	0884195430	244571046	The Worship-Filled Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Living a Constant Life of Godly Worship	Living a life of Godly worship is not just an enjoyable feeling, but it is a command from God.  We do it for obedience to Him and we are blessed for it.  A Worship-Filled Life does not just show why but how we are to worship God.  The author backs up the points he makes with relevant Biblical Scripture showing the way we worship is more than just a suggestion.<br />This book revealed to me what the Bible means when it says we are to worship God.  Along the same lines as King David who stripped off his outer garment and begin to dance before God as he brought the Ark of the Covenant into the city, we are to be totally committed to our Father in Heaven.  The examples in this book show how we can follow the direction of the Bible to demonstrate the desire and need to be in the presence of God.<br />Without giving it a second thought I would recommend this book to anyone who desires to have an intimate relationship with God.  This book is for those who want to know how a person is supposed to act before the throne of God and for those that are interested in understanding the details of how to live the Christian life.  A Worship-Filled Life should be read, as well as studied, so we can come before our Lord and truly see his intense and awesome love for us.	2002-05-14
US	50378047	R3VFXCEDZ83EKQ	0761525548	842882505	Robert E. Lee on Leadership : Executive Lessons in Character, Courage, and Vision	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Leadership 101: A Classic Example	In the book Robert E. Lee on Leadership, the reader is brought into a historical realm to learn about the leadership qualities of a great man.  Although it mentions the primary differences between the sides in the Civil War, it was not one-sided as one might expect from the title.  The literary masterpiece focused on two aspects of Robert E. Lee's leadership, first as a Christian and then understanding the cause in which he fought for in the War Between the States.<br />Within the book the author uses a storytelling style to take the many historical facts and intertwine them to bring the leadership qualities to life.  It seems that a day did not go by in the life of Robert E. Lee where his personage did not utilize some aspect of leadership. Although a good portion of this book deals with the war, the rest brings you into the lighter side of the man.  It shows him as a father, a teacher and a businessman.  There is virtually no stone left unturned within the story about the West Point graduate.  It shows how Lee surrounded himself with other great leaders and even provides background information on them in the Appendix.<br />I feel this book is essential to any leadership course and will use many aspects of it during my own leadership training.  The book left me hoping that a follow-up book will be written to discuss the leadership qualities of some of Lee's adversaries and then contrast and compare the two leadership styles.	2002-04-15
US	50378047	R3LF9ML030EIYT	0939516551	458829752	Leather Tramp Journal: A 12-Mile Mountain Retreat	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Hiking after God	Leather tramp is a slang expression for people who like to hike; this was an interesting book about just such a person and the journal he kept while on the trail.  I was looking for an account of hiking and seeking God and this is what I got with Leather Tramp Journal: A 12-Mile Mountain Retreat.  The way the book fashioned historical events and actions mixed in with the natural surroundings of the Adirondack Mountains, brought an interesting perspective to the reader.<br />Throughout this book the reader is brought onto the trail with the author and we see what a hiker's day is like as he ponders some of life's most important questions.  I looked forward in each chapter to see what the hiker was going to eat for the evening meal and what the \\"Points to Ponder\\" were for the day.  The \\"Points to Ponder\\" provide an action list to be focused on once the hiker returns to civilization.<br />The book helps the reader to reflect on life as well as view nature through the eyes of an experienced \\"Leather Tramp\\". It also allows the reader to see the Appalachian area and possibly plant a desire to hike in the same footsteps as the author.  Although not the book I thought it was going to be, the story unfolded into an interesting tale.	2002-04-15
US	50378047	R3841C1QXUIB5R	0884191338	991005789	Bruchko	Books	5	63	67	N	N	Taking Missions to Heart	Bruchko is a fascinating story of a young man's struggles, Bruce Olsen, to bring the gospel of Jesus Christ to civilizations that were previously unreachable within the South American continent. To me, a missionary, this book brings life to all the things that must be considered on and off the mission field.  As an avid reader, the story of one man's determination to spread the gospel, as well as the trials and tribulations he faced, kept me riveted.  I have heard and read stories like this most of my life, but could not believe some of the hard facts and daily adversity that Bruce Olsen had to face.<br />I appreciated the day-by-day encounters of Bruchko, as he was called, with the tribal people of South America.  The literary work by Bruce Olsen opened my eyes to the things of this world that one person can and does face daily when focused on getting the Palabra de Dios, Word of God, to other civilizations.  The story tells of a man who was turned away by mission organizations because of his young age and inexperience.  I recommend this book for anyone seeking a great story as well as those people considering going to the mission field for active work.<br />Despite the book ending on the last page, I know the story of his mission did not end there and look forward to hearing more about it in the future.  Even after reading it twice, I look forward to the next time I pick up the book to peruse the pages.  I cannot help but think about what the world would be like if more people would follow the leading of God and use Bruchko's zeal and desire as an example to bring the gospel to the world.	2002-04-15
US	50378047	R3AYXOZULWQCP2	1565078977	995239260	Grace Rules: Living in the Kingdom of God Where…	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Grace truly does Rule	In the book Grace Rules, the reader is asked to focus on the grace that God has imparted upon us as Christians through His son, Jesus Christ.  Whether you are a believer or curious about religious thought, this book provides knowledge and numerous examples to explain the concept of grace.<br />As I traversed the pages of Grace Rules, I appreciated the fact that when the author presented a thought he included the appropriate scripture references. The scriptural basis was more than adequate to withstand even the toughest inquisitor.  By the end of book, I realized the author's desire for the reader had been met and I walk each day with a different step than before, because I know that the grace of God is truly authentic.<br />I am pleased with the way the book unfolded and look forward to perusing the pages of it again in the future.  It helped me desire the presence of my Lord and Savior and to know that His grace is sufficient for me.  This paperback provided a great follow-up to the previous, Grace Walks, and is designed so one literary work is not dependent of the other.	2002-04-09
US	50378047	RVM83OO5BUVFV	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Unleash Your Adventuresome Spirit	Wild at Heart has got to be the one of the best books of 2001.  A friend of mine recommended it and I got a copy for Christmas.  Once I started, I could not put the book down.  Wild at Heart draws you in with vivid words and quotes from movies like Gladiator and Braveheart.  It unleashes the adventuresome spirit within a man.<br />I am constantly looking for good books to encourage and motivate men to perform their duties as husbands, fathers, and men, while drawing them closer to the Father.  Wild at Heart shows us how to do that in a manner that Jesus would smile on.  It shows us the common barriers in the way men often think and breaks them into little bite-sized chunks so we can move past them.  Wild at Heart allows us to see why we have the adventuresome spirit, why God designed us the way we are and how we can use it in a positive manner.  It takes poetry combined with prose and puts them into a format that anyone can understand.  Whether macho, sensitive, or somewhere in between, this book will open the eyes of your heart and allow you to see yourself.<br />There are times within Wild at Heart to laugh, to cry, to get angry and to get serious.  With the way it is written, it is sure to become a Best Seller.  I am going to buy multiple copies for several friends.  The men love it due to the way it is written, the women love it due to the way it expresses men.<br />On a scale of one to five, this book is a SIX.	2002-03-15
