US	50374595	R176CGXVRXMY51	1400082781	850914802	The Laughing Jesus: Religious Lies and Gnostic Wisdom	Books	3	28	39	N	N	Gnostic fundamentalism...	My reason for giving this a middle of the road review is twofold:    1) Too many exclamation points.  I simply cannot take too seriously any work of \\"scholarship\\" that ends sentences with exclamation points.  One or two, maybe (a big maybe), but there are way too many moments - in the quotes of others and their own - of multiple exclamation point.    2) It turns into a self-help manual at the end.  The argument could in fact be made that they are preaching.    The value of this book, however, is that it does give a good summation of a variety of critiques of the \\"Big Three\\"  monotheistic religions.  If you are looking for the arguments to cut off the \\"Big Three\\" at their foundation, i.e. their sacred texts, this is a good place to start.  You can also reference some of the more well-known and oft-quoted critics of these faiths.    The only real significant difference between this book and their older books is the inclusion of Islam and Muhammad as a mobster.      Though there is acquiescence to \\"some\\" good things to be found in the sacred texts, it feels forced.      Remember, Gnostics can be fundamenalist as well.  For some reason, however, many who espouse modern day \\"gnosticism\\" miss the fact that they can be just as intolerant as the fundamentalists they critique.  Wouldn't true tolerance be to tolerate those fundamentalists as well?	2005-08-11
US	50374595	R22PHRXZ4F32U2	0192805487	954485185	The Qur'an (Oxford World's Classics Hardcovers)	Books	5	615	644	N	N	This is a great translation...	I have approximately six different translations at home, including translations from Dawood (biased), Pickthall (a bit antiquated), Asad (great translation, a bit too rationalist) and one from Riyadh (not bad but definitely Wahhabi influenced).    So why another one?  I picked it up from my local library and was moved.  It is the easiest reading Qur'an I've seen yet but it does not take away from the impact of what it says.  It really flows nicely and I find it reads so much more quickly than some others.  I found no struggles to understand old English terms (Pickthall's) and no fighting with bracketed words (Asad and the Riyadh version) whose purpose is to help explain the deeper elements of the original Arabic.  While in a few places, I longed for some of the more grand terms found in some of the other translations, on the whole this is a refreshing new translation in plain English.    A few footnotes in some pivotal places keep certain verses in context and help explain certain terms whose force may otherwise be missed.  The introduction is brief but informative as the author goes into some detail about the difficulties in translating.  My guess is that this is accurate and top notch as it is issued by Oxford and in his acknowledgments it is clear he has had many people ensure his accuracy.  This is one to keep and should be one against which others should be measured.	2005-07-23
US	50374595	R3H5RXQYDC7WL0	1590080025	32269137	The Cross & The Crescent	Books	2	46	63	N	N	Really, really not good...	I was really excited about this book.  I've been studying Islam for about ten years now and ride the cusp of converting so I thought this would be an excellent resource - a Christian convert to Islam who has a B.A. and M. Div. from Harvard would seem to be a perfect read.  I was horribly disappointed.    The title claims this is an interfaith dialogue.  That's stretching the term a bit; \\"outer\\" faith dialogue might be a better term for it.  It would seem to me that his information is as current as his MDiv degree which my guess would be dates back a far as the 70s.  It's as if he has merely rehashed that information, much of which is quite outdated today.    Here's his method.  Take the Gospels as we have them, strip away their roots, bring in the apocryphal literature as if they were concurrent with the Gospels as we have them, claim that there were many different groups fighting to represent the \\"true\\" Gospel and make it seem as if the power mongers won out.  Fine.  But his methodology is seriously flawed.  An example should suffice.    He dates the Gospel of John to 110 C.E. which is a pretty liberal date; most scholars, conservative or other, date it prior to 100 C.E. to between 80 and 95 C.E.  Take an apocryphal gospel such as Treatise of Shem, dated between the second and fourth centuries CE and claim that the earliest date is \\"most probable\\" with absolutely no support.  So late date the Gospel of John, claim it has been edited the most, take Treatise of Shem and date it to the second century (perhaps 110 C.E.) and what he's done is presented the Gospel of John and Treatise of Shem as two \\"gospels\\" circulating at the same time!  Bunk.    Other \\"fringe\\" ideas.  The Jesus we all know and love was not from Galilee.  The Jesus pursued in the New Testament was \\"a member of the Galilean part of paramiliatry insurrectionsts.\\"  This is the Jesus that was arrested; when Peter denies \\"Jesus\\" three times he is denying this Jesus, not the Jesus we think.    At the trial,then, Barabbas, whose \\"real\\" name is 'Jesus bar Abbas' (i.e. 'son of the Father', i.e. our Jesus) is released.  Jesus the aforementioned insurrectionist is crucified thus confirming the claims of the Qur'an that Jesus was not crucified!  How 'bout that.  Though he does not claim this is actually what happened, he tosses it in there as a hypothesis.  He's really working it to make early Christianity fit in the Islamic scheme.      The book is, quite honestly, a dismissal of (and insult to) traditional Christianity and introduces the other Christianities as being the more in line with the \\"true\\" Christianity (i.e. Islam).  That's fine but the title and intent is flawed at best, misleading at worst.    I felt as if I was reading the Da Vinci Code all over again.  Some of his sources are from the more fringe side of Christian scholarship, such as Helmut Koester (from Harvard, no surprise there), members of the Jesus Seminar, even drawing from Isaac Asimov.  The vast majority of his sources are dated prior to 1980.  Nothing wrong with fringe scholarship, don't get me wrong (see some of my other reviews), but he merely gathered information from high and low and everywhere in between in order to back his claims.  It lacks consistency.    It's really not well thought out at all and actually does a disservice to Islam as well as someone looking through these apocryphal gospels could simply make the case that Islam borrowed directly from them.  The other problem is that the very same Gospel he claims has been edited the most - John - is the very same Gospel that claims to be prophesying that the \\"Advocate\\" was really Muhammad!      The only value in the book is that it does present what is standard polemic in many Muslim circles.  Overall, a tremendously disappointing book.    For a better in-depth discussion from Westerners who have converted to Islam, try Muhammad Asad, Murad Hoffman and/or Martin Lings.	2005-07-13
US	50374595	R284LM63V00XCY	0195797175	206988722	A Muslim study of the origins of the Christian church	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Ok, let's be honest...	The premise of this book is intriguing.  It is rare when Muslim scholarship tackles Christian history on its own terms.  This is what the book promises to do.      First the good stuff.  The author actually digs into the New Testament texts with an educated, critical eye.  As a former Christian who converted to Islam, she knows her material, including the essence of the doctrine of the sacrifice of Jesus.  On this note, she offers some penetrating critiques.    It starts out all well and good but sadly sinks and falls into what is standard polemic.    The author stumbles on the following fallacies:    1) Ebionites/Nazarenes are the \\"true\\" Christians   2) They were ultimately suppressed by the Roman Catholic Church under Constantine  3) Paul is ultimately blamed for deifying Jesus and for the doctrine of the Trinity   4) The sacrificial atonement of Jesus has its roots in Mithraism (presented as fact on p. 37 without any prior mention)  5) Jesus was deemed a Zealot by Rome (the Zealots are post-Jesus)   6) The \\"Q\\" document (purely hypothetical)  7) The Shroud of Turin (what more is there to say on this one?)  8) The Gospel of Barnabas (she acknowledges that it may in fact be a late 'gospel'; why include it at all?)    What caught me off guard was that the author's foundation of belief becomes apparent on page 61 when she quotes a Hadith of Muhammad.  This is fine but she soon dabbles in Islamic purity laws and prayer and it becomes an Islamic critique of Christianity.  Again, this is fine but the impression I was given was that this was to be an objective look at Christian origins.    She launces on some wildly speculative (though fascinating) adventures through history, even going so far as to ask the question whether the origins of Jesus' \\"I am\\" statements can be found in - you guessed it - pagan Arabia.    She also brings up an interesting character by the name of Jeshu bar Nagara, a figure from Arabia who pre-dates the Jesus of the New Testament, and poses the question as to whether this is the true 'Isa of the Qur'an.  She then asserts that it is possible that Paul, while in Arabia, obtained some sacred writings that spoke of the fertility god al-'Isa and Paul (as well as the writers of the gospels) fused this with Jeshu bar Nagara.  Her reliance upon Kamal Salidi - who denies that the Jews ever lived in Palestine and originate in Yemen (a theory not even accepted by Arab scholars) - shakes the credibility of her case just a bit more.    Ultimately it reads like the DaVinci Code.  It's a wild adventure but ultimately it is merely taking a conglomerate of fringe scholarship that supports Islamic views and weaves them into what is really just a thrlling, mystery novel.    Don't get me wrong.  I am just as critical of Christian origins (see some of my reviews) but I do not stray toward the conspiracy theories.  If Christianity is to be truly analyzed it must be done from within a Jewish matrix.       I wanted to enjoy the book.  I was hoping for a truly objective scholastic critique of Christian origins from one uniquely qualified to do it.  But it turned out to be the same sort of thing that has become commonplace in many a Muslim's arsenal and much of it is tenuous at best and is in many cases just short of laughable.    But if you wish to know how Christianity is picked apart foundationally by many in the faith of Islam, here is a great primer.	2005-06-29
US	50374595	R2IF3B0JWZVPT7	0892811706	875527415	Muhammad: His Life Based on the Earliest Sources	Books	5	118	128	N	N	The finest traditional biography available in English...	Martin Lings, scholar of both English and Arabic, has gone back to the original Arabic sources for this biography. It is fortunate for English speaking readers because he has been able to translate the Arabic himself including some writings not previously translated into English. The man knows his stuff.  <br /> <br />It is told in the form of a story that is nothing short of mesmerizing and there is an air that borders on myth that radiates through the book. This is not to say it is false; this is to say that there is a very high degree of reverence. Those unfamiliar with his life may not get this but at least the reader comes closer to understanding.  <br /> <br />This is not your typical scholarly biography though it quite obviously does not lack the credentials. Extensive footnotes tracing the sources can be found throughout. What is also remarkable is the way the verse from the Qur'an are woven into the story. If you've read the Qur'an and are baffled by its non-linear structure, this will help immensely.  <br /> <br />What is refreshing about this book is his life is presented for what it is. There is no apologetic, no 'modern' scholarship attemtping to dismantle and dissect the sources and no attempt to ease a Western audience through this material. The Prophet is revered for who he is and what you find here is the traditional Muslim view and reverence of his life. It is what it is. Anyone genuinely seeking to understand Muhammad and how he is viewed by those who follow Islam must start here.  <br />	2005-06-10
US	50374595	R367HHFEJIQFYE	0929587634	405997822	A Faith for All Seasons: Islam and the Challenge of the Modern World (And Behavioral Science)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Surprised this one hasn't gotten more attention...	This is a great, great book.  It is a philosophical journey through the Islamic landscape in the modern world.  The author attempts to step back and is not afraid to critique much of Islam's approach to modernity: denial, covert acceptance and militant attacks against.      He believes in Islam as a viable solution to the modern world's ailments but realizes also that isolationism is not the solution; in fact, it's hypocrisy as many in the Islamic world embrace various aspects of modernity.    Using Christianity's history with modernity as a model, he challenges Muslims that Islam is not free from the secularism that has resulted.  It's only a matter of time until it comes pounding on the door.  In fact, it's already begun to chisel at the foundations.  The West is not completely to blame.  Muslims must own up to the challenge and deal with it.  This is his rallying cry.    He takes Christianity to task for some of the results of this struggle with modernity and dissects some of its approaches to and interactions with Islam but the bulk of the book is directed toward Muslims dealing with, if you will, the 'real world'.      Perhaps the fundamental flaw in the book is that it is quite apparent that his view of the West is European, i.e. England.  His perception of the Christian (or that of a religious worldview in general) malaise in the light of modernity and its seeming irrelevance does not seem to fit so much in America.  Because of this, Christianity has manifest in a unique way in America and it is quite apparent he has missed out on this.  While it is obvious secularism is on the rise in the U.S., atheism is not so pronounced here.  However, considering the trend of much of the Church, perhaps his book is prophetic.    And in discussing the Christian tradition and its seeming vacuity, he is underestimates the rise in evangelical Christianity (e.g. Pentecostalism, the whole charismatic movement) taking place on many levels in the U.S. (and worldwide, actually).Though he makes a few mentions of it in the endnotes it would be interesting to hear his views on this as the book is from 1990.        Be forewarned: this book is steeped heavily in the western philosophical tradition and gets quite dense in places.  It is not a light read.  This isn't a bad thing but it must be digested slowly in order to follow him.  Though you may not agree with all his conclusions, it is a well-reasoned challenge.	2005-05-29
US	50374595	R8RUDY49CEJUU	0582780810	376649825	Christianity Among the Arabs in Pre-Islamic Times (Arab Background Series)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The best reference available on the subject...	Most of Christian history is written from a Western vantage point.  I never realized how true this was until I read this book.  While Churches in the East get some mention in history books, I know of no other work that details as intricately as this one just how far and wide it spread East of Palestine.    It is an invaluable reference work.  It touches on the various Councils and its effect on the schism between East and West and how this led to various alternate forms of expressing the Christian faith.  If you've ever wondered about the Desert Fathers, you'll find your answers here.  It is a fascinating history.    I read the book in order to find out what the Christianity the early Islamic community would have encountered and found my answers, though much of it is not as documentable and thus verifiable as, say, the Church Councils of the West.  But Trimingham has documented so many sources that you will get a sense of the Christian community and its diversity during that period of time.   But that is almost an aside as there are so many more avenues down which this book travels.    He has broken the various chapters into the various regions of what was considered Arabia in Biblical times up to the present.  When we say Arabia or Arab today it generally means something quite a bit different than it did then.      What is most refreshing about the book is that it is not a polemical work.  While it is certain Trimingham is a Christian, you'll be hard pressed to find it in this work.  Only in a few places did I notice but it did not dissuade me in the least.  The man knows this terrain well.     The subject matter is heavy and the material is very, very dense, with many names I could not pronounce.  It is a pretty dry read but well worth the investment of your time.  If you wish to understand the topic of the title, look no further.  I have yet to come across another work like it.	2005-05-14
US	50374595	RNCG0DFNHWEBO	0425192938	919064525	Pattern Recognition (Blue Ant)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The Matrix is here and now...	I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  It is a fairly easy read, fast-paced and laced with astute observations and penetrating lyricism.  It's a bit choppy at times - Gibson's style, I presume - but he has woven together a narrative that speaks well of the world in which we live and its materialistic malaise.    Cayce is a cool-hunter (ironic, as what is cool really loses that moniker as soon as it is tagged as 'cool') paid well to identify - with an allergic sensitivity - brand logos that work.  Advertising has reached critical mass in our society and Gibson is able to humanize it just a touch, putting into words that feeling we have these days that everything is for sale or could be, if marketed properly.    She is hired by an advertising mogul to seek out some video footage leaking onto the Internet that has developed a cult following, a subculture in emergence, a marketer's dream.  She is singled out to find its source.    It doesn't sound like much of a plot but he makes this commercial and computerized universe of emails and forums tactile, almost real.  Perhaps what is most frightening is that it all resonates not as something futuristic but as the real world, right now.  Prophecy speaks not of the future but is a critique of the world as it is.    With a pseudo-psychic mother, a father who disappeared in New York on 9.11.01 and a host of world-weary, jet setting, uber-chic (interesting that the line between chic and geek has blurred) characters, the journey will take her from New York to London to Moscow in a whirlwind adventure, giving us just enough to feel beyond our desensitized lobes.    It's a bit choppy and the ending leaves a bit to be desired but it's still a great read and is a guidebook of sorts to navigate the world of pop culture and fleeting meaning in the world in which we live.	2005-04-18
US	50374595	R36W8ZNWS3GAJL	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Homelessness lite...	I spent seven years in social work, including three of those years as an outreach worker for the homeless.  I was told about this book when it first came out but avoided reading it having read his other books.  Having worked closely with the homeless in many environments for three solid years has obviously honed my critical eye on the issue and I'm not certain the book had a chance.  However, I tried to leave judgment aside.      He delivered what I expected.  He writes in brief, easy prose with sharp dialogue and a frenetic pace, keeping you turning pages.  It is a quick read with enough twists and turns to keep it interesting.    Kudos to him for tackling this subject in a popular book.  It becomes obvious quickly that he's skimmed the surface of the issue.  It is clear that he had done his research and had given a lot of thought to the issue.  His heart is sensitive to the issue.  But stereotypes abound and many of his characters represent 'types' and lack depth, even as he tries to pull the reader's heart strings.    And the notion that a hot shot lawyer can 'condescend' to being a street lawyer within a few weeks and be down with the homeless becomes absurd after awhile.  \\"I was amazed at how far I'd come in a week,\\" he notes about three-fourths of the way through the book.  It sounds as if it's cool for him to be doing this, the rebellious schtick, urban slumming.  It's pretentious.    It took me well over a year of hardcore outreach to even begin to peel away the layers of prejudice and arrogance I had toward the people I was working with.  It just doesn't happen that fast.  And dressing down and growing stubble, wearing beat up old Nikes also doesn't mean one is down with the homeless.  This approach just reinforces one of the greatest stereotypes many of us hold, that we need to come down to their level, that they'll feel uncomfortable if we're overdressed.  They can tell when you're underdressing, when you are condescending.      Taking on a huge law firmover the eviction of a few tenants/squatters - the premise of the book - and bringing a huge media circus to the case and a huge rally in front of the hallowed halls of DC's powerhouse institutions is far-fetched.  Those days of huge interest passed in the late 80s with Mitch Snyder and company.  The book shoots way too high and the ending offers up a Pollyanna solution on one too many levels.    A crack addict becomes a regular and within a few weeks has her on the road to recovery.  If you've ever worked with addicts, it is not so simple.  And what happens to the head of the law firm at the end of the book is just too much.      Sorry for the preaching.  It's an issue near and dear to me.      However, Grisham does a good job at weaving some Homeless 101 material into a fast-moving storyline and as such pulls of a quick and entertaining read.	2005-03-13
US	50374595	R7EYDIMKFS706	0316159948	108958813	OPUS: 25 Years of His Sunday Best	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Opus, where ya' been?	Oh how I miss Bloom County.  Especially the loveable penguin named Opus who was truly the essence of Bloom County.  If you don't remember the strip, this book probably won't mean a whole lot to you.  The original is necessary as a foundation to make sense of his mannerisms, his foibles and his overall neurotic worldview that made him so loveable in the first place. <br /> <br />If you remember the strip, this is a nice book to peruse to stir up old memories.  While the limitation is that many of these are removed from their original context and thus limiting the punch line, they still stand on their own. <br /> <br />As for Outland, what's to be said?  It was innovative in that it was a Sunday only strip but it lost support over time.  Turns out that minus the other characters, it wasn't as loveable.  You can see the other characters slowly making their way back into the strip.  Berkeley Breathed obviously missed them.  But all the Outland strips are here. <br /> <br />The last several strips are entitled 'Opus' and show Mr. Breathed breathing a little more life into Opus.  The characters are drawn in more detail and with more color and flair.  Apparently the artistic freedom enticed him to be a bit more adventurous.  Yet the other characters are still lingering underneath and behind.  But you can't go back.   <br /> <br />The full colors are brilliant and the size of the book makes it quite enjoyable on its artistic merit alone.  Yet it tells a story of Bloom County and of Mr. Breathed himself in the lessons of life: loving, losing and realizing, almost sorrowfully, that you really can't go back.  Yet there is still a glimmer of hope in ol' Opus that makes this book quite a little treasure.	2005-02-19
US	50374595	R1GLJTKP0A2N23	088706163X	774411851	Islam and the Destiny of Man	Books	4	18	26	N	N	If only...	Does Islam make men good or do men make Islam good?  I love this book. I wish, in my heart, that Islam was truly as described here.  But there are as many Islams as there are Muslims.      Mr. Eaton's Islam is one of them.  And I wish it were so.  His description of Islam radiates beauty, wisdom and power and a genuine and true longing for Truth.  It is as poetic as it is spiritually nourishing.  As such I can recommend this book to anyone.    My issue, however, is twofold:     1) why do we not see Muslims acting like this?  Granted, living in the West we'd probably never see it anyhow as it doesn't make news.  However, a good friend of mine is a Muslim and he lives the spirit of the Islam Mr. Eaton presents.  Yet ask him to define his stand on whether he is a Sunni, Sufi or Shi'ite you'd probably find he's a bit of all of them and avoids being boxed in.      2) most Americans/Westerners embrace a 'Sufi', i.e. mystical, type of Islam.  In other words, they fall outside of the pale of the stricter doctrinal aspects of Islam such as those practiced in Saudi Arabia, Iran and even Egypt.  Being Western and free of the cultural impact of being Arab, it provides a freedom of interpretation that would probably be frowned upon by many in the Muslim world.  My question is this: is the Islam presented here genuinely Islamic?    This is a great book and a great introduction to Islam.  In fact, for an introductory text, it is best to start here and see the best Islam has to offer as the polemical books about Islam are far too common.	2005-01-26
US	50374595	R2ZLP26MTS9J48	0710300484	494000481	Cyclical Time & Ismaili Gnosis (Islamic Texts and Contexts)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Get it over with...blow your mind	This book is deeper than anything imaginable.  It isn't a pretentious pot smoke haze kind of deep nor is it the superficial understanding of the essentials of Religion 101.  This is a completely different kind of deep.      The book brings together three essays of Corbin's translated from French.    1) Cyclical Time in Mazdaism and Ismailism - from the Eranos conference in 1951  2) Divine Epiphany and Spiritual Birth in Ismailian Gnosis - from the Eranos conference in 1954  3) From the Gnosis of Antiquity to Ismaili Gnosis - from a conference in Rome in 1956    Mr. Corbin discusses the Ismaili ideas of cyclical time, yes.  The Ismailis are often associated with the Alamut Assassins of lore but they are so much more than that.  He also digs into the ideas of the Qiyamat (the Resurrection) and the beliefs held by the Shi'ites of the Imam-of-one's-own-being and a whole host of other ideas that fall loosely under the banner of the Ismailis.      The essence of the book is a dissection of 'gnosticism' and its trajectory from Zoroastrianism/Mazdaism through Greek philosophy in its intercourse with Avicenna in the Islamic world through its eventual and perhaps ultimate manifestation in Shi'ism.  It's something of an alternative view to an Incarnationist Christology, an attempt to recover something 'lost' by the worldview of this Christianity of the Councils.    The bonus is that you will learn more about all those variant beliefs to be found within Christianity, Jewish and Islamic history and the deeper elements of Zoroastrians, Gnostics, the Ebionites, the Manichaens, the Sabeans and other divergent groups and groups within groups that you may never have even heard of.      And these are all interwoven into one grand synthesis that is mind blowing.  It's not an easy read.  I've read through this twice and am now trying to digest it a third time.  It's still dizzying.      Yet the work is worth it.  There are moments of lucidity that make the journey valuable.  This is notfor mainstream Christians, Muslims or any others who cling solely to the exoteric traditions.  If you are happy there, stay there.  This is for those who find something amiss in simple religion and dare to go beyond (or within).  But be warned, it's not for the fainthearted.    To my knowledge, this is the only work of its kind in English, at least of this depth and magnitude.  If you really wish for a deeper view of the spiritual universe, all of Corbin's books come recommended.	2005-01-22
US	50374595	R32Y5W320YOXH3	0060799250	42714979	Witness: For the Prosecution of Scott Peterson	Books	1	23	31	N	N	Who bloody cares?	Since when did we become so shallow and vapid that we have to confess our sins to an anonymous world?  Why should we care about this case?  Why does Amber Frey feel the need to tell the entire world about it?  Have we become so vapid that our own lives do not keep us busy enough that we need to pry into the lives of complete strangers?   <br /> <br />Our culture is bankrupt.  The fact that this book is actually selling is a tell-tale sign.	2005-01-14
US	50374595	R1C6WMQXGMXGCI	0195002105	394744637	The Idea of the Holy	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The best articulation of the genius of Christianity...	I just revisited this book and forgot how absolutely marvelous it is at wrestling with the rational/non-rational element of religion.  Rudolf Otto is unabashedly forthright in his admittance that Christianity - not so much the outer dogmatics but the internal mystery, i.e. the 'numinous', it yields to - is the only place where 'light' and 'life' find a balanced home and, with it, a proper experience with the numinous.    While the book is heavy reading and, perhaps paradoxically, weighs heavily on the rational, he ultimately brings a brilliant dissertation on the genius of Christianity as the most viable path for balancing this numinous with the temperance that the rational elements of experience brings.      One of the other elements often overlooked in this book is that he approaches the elevation of Christianity against other faiths from another angle.  First, and foremost, he holds high reverence for all faiths.  Never tearing down another faith, by comparison with the Christian experience he actually reveals the strengths of other faiths.  Allah is pure 'numen'; this actually gives a solid explanation as to the potential for fanaticism (which, by comparison, gives insight into the fanaticism of any faith).  Taoism spends almost all of its time in the 'mysterium tremendum'; it is completely impersonal (yet, by comparison, it tempers the tendency towards a total anthropomorphing of God).      These are often leveled as critiques against these faiths yet in this work the strenghts of such religions are revealed.  It is not a judgment; the choice is the reader's.  And this is the greatest strength of any comparative religious study.  While not the overt intent of this book, it is present.  If one wishes to experience God as total 'numen', Islam may be deemed that path.  If we wish to experience the depth of life in the world, Taoism may be deemed that path.  Yet Otto continues to lay out the discussion towards his goal: Christianity is the one religion where all these experiences and feelings find a home.    Perhaps the other factor that stands out - and it could also be rendered a flaw by more biblical literalists - is that he accepts the fact that such accounts as the Empty Tomb are riding the fringe of legendary accounts.  He does not say they are false; he does not say they are irrational; he does not write them off as fiction.  He accepts their role and admits that, in the framework of Western thinking, we do a disservice to the purpose of these accounts when we view them with our overly empirical mindset.     As a thinker, this is one of the books that helps keep the Christian faith in proper perspective.  Having spent a number of years in various denominations and churches of the more fundamentalist kind, I have remained grounded through books such as this one.  I have never been able to make the leap of accepting the tenets of such fundamentalism: Biblical literalism; railing against all other faiths as demonic; the sectarian and isolationist mentality that so often arises; the arrogance and superiority that too often stems from such thinking.    Yet, like Otto, I have felt the power of the 'numen' in the Christian path.  Otto's work captures this struggle - experiencing such non-rational power within a rational mind - in great detail and with a humble and compassionate power.  A must for any thinker's library.	2005-01-12
US	50374595	R1GZOT0YFUDXN0	069110106X	911049035	The Beaux-Arts Tradition in French Architecture: Illustrated by the Grands Prix de Rome	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The essential work on the Beaux Arts style...	I am currently working in a facility whose direct lineage is the Beaux Arts style of architecture.  One of the principal architects was a graduate of the Ecole des Beaux Arts in France.  While reading this book and perusing the photos in the appendices I saw the direct influence of this school. <br /> <br />I am not a student of architecture, nor am I student of art, but after reading this book I felt a lot more comfortable with the architecture of the building where I work.  I might even go so far as to say I know have an understanding of it. <br /> <br />The book is thorough.  The entire history of the school is traced back to its earliest beginnings in Italy up to the year 1968.  Even better, the theory of design and the influence of the architecture of Antiquity is included as is the philosophical influences of Plato, Aristotle and Neo-Platonism on the entire 'spirit' of architecture. <br /> <br />The story behind the ateliers and the patrons and the history of the Grand Prix de Rome is included.  The big names are found here and glimpses of what life must have been like in the ateliers can also be seen.  The schism that occurred between crafstman and artist and why it is that the Beaux Arts came to be known as grandiose, leaving the 'less important' works such as housing to the craftsman, is traced and from this why it is that the Beaux Arts style fell so out of favor and could not keep up with change. <br /> <br />There is a history lesson as well as the spirit of the Revolution in France and its impact on the history of the school is included.  Part history lesson and part theory it is such a thorough and all-encompassing book, any study of Beaux Arts must begin here.   <br /> <br />The only disappointment I felt was that there was only the merest of mention of its influence on the students from America and subsequent impact in America.  But I would imagine, this would be a book unto itself so it is more disappointment than criticism.	2004-12-19
US	50374595	R24JKETMJEAQBW	1856492540	620755217	Pioneers of Islamic Revival (Studies in Islamic Society)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The roots of the resurgence of Islam as a world force...	I took several courses under a reknowned Islamic scholar (who is a practicing Muslim, mind you) and gave serious consideration to conversion to Islam.  I digested all I could about Islam and as many translations of the Quran as I could get my hands on.  While I never made the leap, I found a continuing deep level of respect for the faith of Islam and all Muslims, from the humanist variety to the militant variety so in the news these days. <br /> <br />That being said, of all the courses I took, it is perhaps the course I took on Politics and Islam that continues to stick with me.  For example, many in the West have a certain view of Khomeini as a renegade terrorist.  What people don't understand is how it is that he was (and perhaps still is, to a degree) so revered.  Having taken the course, I have a different understanding of his significance and how it was that he rose to power.  I also understand more deeply why it is that the West (and the United States, in particular) is so feared, even hated by so many in the Middle East.  This book helped along that path.  <br /> <br />The big names are here.  If you wish to understand modern day Islam as a political force, you need to know some of the names in this book: al-Afghani, Abduh, Khomeini and Qutb and others are those whose thoughts gave rise to such movements as the Muslim Brotherhood and the Jama't-e-Islami.  The militant strain that is so prevalent did not appear out of a vacuum.  The roots were already planted.  While it is claimed that the roots of the violence we see today go back to Muhammad, we underestimate just how much these modern thinkers and their interpretations of the Quran have influenced the course of modern day events.   <br /> <br />While the book is not without its weaknesses, it is a great introduction to understanding this phenomenon.  While it is so contrary to Western culture, when understood in proper context, it is not so strange as we may think.  While you may not agree with their conclusions and courses of action, you may at least understand better where they are coming from.	2004-12-17
US	50374595	R3J6K2GP4ATK4	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Say cheese please...	Actually, I'd give this 3.5 stars. Mr. Brown knows how to write a page turner. He really does keep it interesting and you really do want to find out what happens next. Thus, a high ranking for the story.          However - and perhaps I am being a snob here - in some places I almost gagged. Here are some examples:          1) When walking through the hall of a scientific laboratory, Mr. Langdon encounters some black and white photographs of particle collisions. Langdon acts surprised: Modern Art? he mused. Jackson Pollock on amphetamines?          These are relatively common images. A man of Mr. Langdon's intelligence has never seen one of these? Just go to the science section of any bookstore and you'll see many of them. That and the cheesy comments meant to show wonderment caused points to be lost.          2) Vetra's lab was wildly futuristic.           This is just bad writing. Read that sentence over. And over. And think about how really, really bad it is. This isn't the only sentence like this one.          3) Here's another: God, Buddha, The Force, Yahweh, the singularity, the unicity point - call it whatever you like - the result is the same. Science and religion support the same truth - pure energy is the father of creation.           Meditate on that one a bit.           Mr. Brown chose this as fiction for a reason, as he freely admits. This book contains some truths but far too many conjectures (presented as fact; see #3 above) and a lot of wishful thinking. It is for this reason that I laughed out loud instead of being enthralled in many places.           I suppose my biggest reaction to this book is his sermonizing.  It is quite obvious that he uses his books as a platform to espouse his views which, of course, he is entitld to do (as we are entitled to critique it).  He espouses a worldview that would suck the life out of both science and religion and would lead to a rather bland stew that is mostly broth.          The reference to Leon Lederman's TheGod Particle  on the bookshelf of one of the scientists shelves at CERN is somewhat ironic. Mr. Lederman, former director of Fermilab (whose work is similar to that of CERN referenced in this book), dissects the logic and fallacy of using science as proof that religion is saying the same thing.            Same facts, different conclusions. Mr. Lederman may acquiesce to a degree but he basically deflates the lofty claims; Mr. Brown supports the claims whole heartedly. Same story, different ending.       The idea that science proves what mystics have always known and that the power structures of organized religions are seeking to suppress this truth is a clever way of getting out of participating in religion at all (see I'm sermonizing too!).  And the whole secrecy of the Vatican thing is just plain outdated. Catholic bashing went out with the Dark Ages (though it is an easy target).    And the ending.  Oh, man.  Over the top doesn't even touch it.  Mr. Brown's wet dream is probably as close as we get.  Catch the obsession with 'the man with the tweed jacket' (what, no one wears tweed anymore?) and you'll see what I mean.  Boring professor becomes man of action.    On a positive note: the symbology and whirlwind tour through Rome and Vatican City make the journey worth taking.         All that being said, at least people are talking openly about this stuff. But keep in mind, this is FICTION.	2004-07-25
US	50374595	RIMRD5QCG7QDQ	0971865973	267228238	The Evasion-English Dictionary	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Buy this book...please!	Contrary to what the author thinks, I blame the viral use of the word 'like' - the precursor to the computer virus - on ... Shaggy from Scooby-Doo.  Who didn't let that little munchy craving, paranoid pothead infect us all?<br />The word is everywhere, ubiquitous, nonsense and useless.  Finally, finally, finally, someone exposes the term for what it is - evasion.  She breaks it down and reveals its many uses.  Other terms such as 'whatever' are give due treatment as well.  The book is linguistically sound and is humorous, if you get the joke.<br />I cannot recommend this book enough if you wish to expose the virus and root it out of your vocabulary.	2004-03-22
US	50374595	R25ZSUPS6XUQZ3	0679603107	333599153	Part of Our Time: Some Ruins and Monuments of the Thirties (Modern Library)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Essential reading to understanding Communism in the U.S.	Picked this one up through reference in a biography dictionary on Communism in the United States.  Glad I did.  This is a hidden gem.<br />Mr. Kempton does not approach the issue from a philosophical or principle orinted point of view.  He doesn't discuss Communism and its ideals or compare and contrast various belief systems.  He approaches it from a personal standpoint.  He takes several peripheral characters, for the most part, and unfolds their lives.  Apparently, he himself was involved in ascending into the Communist camp for a time.<br />Rather than deal with the major players, he deals with minor players (minor, to me anyhow, as I'd never heard of many of them).  This is what makes it interesting.  By delving into the lives of these characters, he puts the times into a greater context by which we come to understand the appeal of Communism and its part in the broader scope of the 1920s and 1930s.  <br />Labor unrest, the Communist thread, the radicalism during this period and the economic devastation is something we seem to be one step removed from these days and the impact this period of time had on people is often lost.  It's amazing how much what is said in this book rings true today.  Truly history repeats itself.  <br />Not only do we begin to understand the times but we begin to see how diverse and different those who decided to take up its banner really were and how Communism was not necessarily the direct appeal but it was a means to an end, a reaction rather than proaction.  <br />He is sympathetic towards his characters and you feel the pathos as you read about their lives.  They become very human and very real, something often lacking in history books.  There is a tinge of sadness surrounding all the individuals in the book.  His writing style is quite fresh and dramatic with a flair for the metaphor.  <br />If you wish to understand what was going on during this period of time and what the appeal of Communism was and why these individuals jumped on the bandwagon, this book is a must read.	2004-02-21
US	50374595	RSI0KG5ZX7ULX	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Just don't believe everything you read...	I must be one of the last people on the planet to read this book.  It's everywhere.  So here goes...<br />This is a masterfully written thriller, truly a 'can't put it down, stay up all night, page-turner' (I read it one day).  The fact that it delves into secret societies and the sacred feminine reveals that we just love that stuff.  Crafting it into a murder mystery is a stroke of mastery.<br />It's obvious the author has done his homework.  There's a reason he has turned it into a fiction book rather than writing non-fiction.  Fiction gives him room to express his point of view without stating it as fact.  Granted, he has done his research and his facts are easily verifiable; however, his conclusions, if written into a non-fiction account, would probably render him a conspiracy theorist.  This stuff is not revelatory, nor is it new.  It may be new and shocking to most but that's only because most people don't read the dry, scholarly texts (i.e. non-fiction) where this research is found.<br />Holy Blood, Holy Grail (mentioned in the book) will hit the bestseller list again because of this book.  Umberto Eco's works should also gain credence (even though not mentioned in the book).  I read Holy Blood, Holy Grail years ago and it all came rushing back while reading this book.<br />The sacred feminine, the power mongering of the early church, the 'other' New Testament and the 'lost writings of the true Christian church' and all the other ideas have been covered (cf. Bart Ehrman and Elaine Pagels, currently both on the bestseller lists with similar lines of reasoning).  It's been argued back and forth for a long, long time.  And it will probably continue to be so.<br />Mr. Brown did not unearth some hitherto unknown texts that reveals this stuff.  It's already out there and he is quite literally walking on the shoulders of giants.  It's fun to conjecture but do your homework before espousing this stuff as truth.<br />This isn't to take the fun out of the book.  What is clever is how he has taken such a breadth of knowledge and crafted it into a composite whole.  If you like codes and word games, car chases and intrigue, spiritual and religious possibility, this is definitely a surefire bet.  This book is really enjoyable - as fiction.  It's definitely a must read.  It's a lot of fun and exciting to see what he does with his material; just don't expect too much depth.What is clever is how he has taken such a breadth of knowledge and crafted it into a composite whole.  If you like codes and word games, car chases and intrigue, spiritual and religious possibility, this is definitely a surefire bet.  This book is really enjoyable - as fiction.  It's definitely a must read.  It's a lot of fun and exciting to see what he does with his material; just don't expect too much depth.	2004-02-15
US	50374595	R2BLE5YA1CHQFR	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Puts you back in the Low Life...	References to Luc Sante's seminal work Low Life (foundational to Scorcese's Gangs of New York) are almost too obvious not to mention.  Mr. Carr puts you right back into the lower side of New York in the late nineteenth century, writing about the alternative history we rarely visit.<br />The main character, a New York Times reporter, gets invovled with an old friend, who is an alienist (what we today might call a psychiatrist, psychologist, or criminologist or a little bit of all three), to investigate a series of murders of 'boy whores' in the immigrant population of New York's seedier side.  It may sound relatively uninteresting but with a historian's exactitude, Mr. Carr unfolds this side of life with precision and you feel as if you really are there.  <br />It's a brilliant setting.  His writing style, that of a historian, is slow and intentional but ultimately inviting.  It is not a fast paced read but is a very detailed book that unfolds very methodically, just as the mind of his antagonist works.  He dabbles in psychology, criminology, police methods and brings in a host of historical characters such as his good friend, Theodore Roosevelt, police chief prior to being the President as he is so remembered.  He brings the city to life, drawing from his historical data bank to keep it as accurate as fiction can be.<br />All in all, I was greatly surprised, having picked this up just recently in a thrift store for fifty cents.  Considering my interest in this period of time and that of the alternative histories of cities, it was serendipitous.  If you haven't read it already, it is well worth reading.	2004-02-04
US	50374595	R3FAW19XGEUVOJ	0963124307	907650384	Clingan's chronicles	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Interesting tidbits of Youngstown in this autobiography	I picked this up more for Youngstown than for Mr. Jackson.  I live in Youngstown but my memories of him and his writings locally are vague as I was younger and less interested in the city then.<br />While doing some research during the period of the 20s and 30s in Youngstown I remembered this book and purchased it.  It is much more autobiographical than anything.  I can't say it is uninteresting but my interest is what lies behind his personal history.<br />In this regard the book is chock full of insight and observations that you won't find in more 'historical' articles.  It has a flair which adds a nice personal touch to often dry history.  If you are looking for another angle on Youngstown history this is a very recommended book.	2004-01-14
US	50374595	R1P5R0DYLXY416	0679738762	21996426	Low Life: Lures and Snares of Old New York	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The prose of the underside of the city...	Luc Sante has a poetic drift about him and the book is written in that style.  In the afterward to the newest printing he describes how he fell in love with the decay of the city during the period of time when he lived there.  Only at the time he didn't really recognize it as decay but as living history entombed in the rubble.<br />It was only after the city had become a playground for the elite that it became apparent that what he loved was actually what was the underside.  In other words, he's an artist and he sees beauty where others see only gloom, doom and obsolesence.  <br />From this perspective, then, he takes on a tour of those dregs of society upon which any society is built, if not running from those things then at least providing a place where they can in fact fall. <br />Granted, this is thick with names and facts and tidbits all meshed into one composite whole, as if he was afraid to forget to include any of his wonderful research.  It is a bit busy but it's easy to overlook because it is so much fun.<br />Gangs of New York finds influence here and books such as The Alienist revel in this part of city life too often overlooked.	2004-01-05
US	50374595	R2Q24EJ62LEJF3	1928653111	581549793	The Sword of the Prophet: Islam; History, Theology, Impact on the World	Books	4	29	35	N	N	The truth about Islam?	I can't say that this is the truth about Islam (does anyone really know what that is?).  But I will tell you this: this book succinctly and bluntly lays out the argument of the extremes of the worst that followers of Islam can perpetrate in the world.    <br />There are two threads in Islam.  There are those who espouse a tolerant, peaceful religion interested in social justice.  The other thread is much more common -- in the modern era so obviously seen in bin Laden and company.  <br />This book lays out the very worst of Islamic history.  He digs into the Quran and Hadith literature (the traditions of Muhammad's sayings) and extracts the worst of the worst.  Muhammad is portrayed as a violent, power hungry, sex fiend who uses the revelations of Allah to justify his every whim and fancy.  Considering that Muhammad is looked to as the perfect man within Islamic tradition it is no wonder that such a view could lead his followers to do the same.  And, sadly, there are far too many who actually do believe what is described in this book.<br />From a Western point of view, this is seen as a negative.  However, if these views are held and seen as perfection, it is religiously justifiable to do the actions -- violence, mistreatment of women, intolerance -- with no doubts.  This is the danger about Islam (and any faith, really, though quite obviously Islam is seen as an extreme in this regard).  <br />I can not help but think, however, that this book takes verses out of context, filters them through a preconceived conclusion and does little to explain Islam's hold over its followers, especially over its women.  <br />Are all the women really nothing but slaves?  Do its followers really follow it out of fear of being killed for apostasy?  Are most Muslims merely so because of where they are born?  Is it on the rise due merely to reproduction?  Maybe so, sadly.<br />There is a part of me that does not want this to be true.  I have found much beauty and power within Islam.  But I do this through a Western filter so sometimes it is easy to gloss over those things we don't like.  This is a justified critique that is laid out in the book.  Many within academia and even high level government do not wish to upset the apple cart and, behind their ivory towers, will speak of Islamic ideals and principles laying out the claim that what we see displayed by militants such as bin Laden is not the 'true' Islam.  But this judgment is rendered by Westernized, non-Muslims.  <br />So what is the truth?  It is still playing out.  <br />This book, however, follows the one thread to its logical conclusion and does so with dangerous precision.  Five stars for its logic, three stars for its lack of balance.  Four stars because it should be read, and dealt with, both by non-Muslims and, more importantly, Muslims.  Militating against it rather than engaging in discourse only justifies the conclusion of this book.	2003-12-10
US	50374595	R2E0JIZZHUULP8	086590250X	357210566	Preaching of Islam: A History of the Propagation of the Muslim Faith	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A different twist on the spread of Islam...	This book was written by Sir Thomas Arnold who lived and worked as a professor of philosophy in Lahore, India (now Pakistan).  He was widely traveled in the Muslim world.  This book, now roughly 100 years old, is still relevant today, perhaps moreso now than ever.    He states his case that Islam was not spread by the sword, as is so stereotypically thought by many, but through preaching and daily commerce.  While there has been military conquest by Islamic nations, the actual conversions to the Islamic faith were not done by the sword.  This is a tough concept to grasp.  Considering that Islam is considered an entire way of life, the military conquests are not outside of the realm of Islam.      The division between religion and politics leads to the schizophrenia we see today in many a Western nation's bumbling other countries, most recently America in Iraq.  For the sake of analogy let us ask that if the citizens of Iraq were, for example, to convert to Christianity could we say that they were converted by the sword?  Or did the conversions come once the military maneuvering was done?  If a host of missionaries ride in on the coattails of the military, would history lead us to believe that conversions were done by the sword?    This analogy obviously falls apart because Christianity is not a faith that embraces politics under its name and America is not based upon a religious ideology but the question is worth considering.  Did those who converted to Islam do so for fear of the sword?  Or did victory come militarily/politically first (and wherever there are men there are politics) and then the faith spread?      Arnold makes his case that it was not the sword that led to the majority of conversions to Islam.  It was the strength of the faith of the ordinary individuals who lived it.  The book is not light reading and is very dense but it is interesting and it is definitely worth reading to get some balance on how the spread of Islam is viewed.  He is not naivelyglowing in his approach but is very balanced in his report.  Vital for those who really want to understand truth on their own terms.    Update:  This book has been repackaged and is interestingly retitled 'The Spread of Islam in the World - A History of Peaceful Preaching' and is available through Astrolabe's website.	2003-11-07
US	50374595	R2J85YT58XBR4V	0800618564	279891958	Between the Testaments	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great introductory text...	This little book is a good place to start to get a grasp on what was happening during those mythical 400 years of 'silence' between the Tanakh and the writings that later became the New Testament.  While Mr. Russell is undoubtedly writing from a Christian perspective, he writes quite simply and eloquently about a highly complex subject.<br />This is a great place to start.  He synthesizes the information well and shows the reader the larger picture.  For more technical information, there are a host of other books out there.  This is a good place to start before journeying down that road.	2003-11-05
US	50374595	R1GOSE0UMN4KIN	1585420999	524015341	Tao Te Ching: The Definitive Edition	Books	2	15	18	N	Y	The enthusiasm has worn off..	My original review was filled with thrill and exaltation of this book.  New to the Chinese of the original I desired to go beyond comparing English translations.  I thought this would solve that problem.  In the beginning it did; in the end it didn't.<br /><br />It was the first edition I had found in English that had a dictionary of all the Chinese characters of the actual text and what I thought was the etymology of all the individual characters and thus my original enthusiasm.  However, over time I found that the dictionary and method of use is not very functional.  In fact, it became more and more frustrating.  It ended up in my basement collecting dust.<br /><br />The other drawback that has emerged in recent years is the flood of publications revealing the variety of Dao De Jing texts there are.  Star's is the \\"received text\\" that was attached to Wang Bi's commentary.  Yet Wang Bi himself used a different text.  The Mawangdui, Guodian and  Xiang'er texts, among others, reveal just how complicated the whole idea of a \\"definitive\\" translation can be as there is really no \\"definitive\\" text, just the traditionally received - and translated - text.<br /><br />The \\"verbatim\\" translation isn't really and the use of the varieties of shades of meaning - all derived from the translations/words of other translators - is in the end not helpful.  Perhaps I was looking too hard to see what the DDJ \\"really\\" said and this book is geared more for the New Agey spirit where religion conforms to what we like rather than trying to grasp what the original author(s) intended.<br /><br />There is little to no lexical help in terms of understanding Chinese in here and this, more than anything, is what is vital to any translation you may tackle on your own.  Just looking up definitions of characters isn't enough.  Having consulted many Chinese dictionaries on my quest to learn Chinese, the weakness of the approach of this book becomes obvious quite quickly.<br /><br />Also, and perhaps most annoying, there is a tendency among many authors today (with just an air of hubris) to \\"translate\\" texts from a variety of traditions.  This one is no different.  Hinduism is thrown into the mix and the two are compared as if they are saying the same thing (Victor Mair has also tackled this approach, though from a different level).<br /><br />This is a nice teaser at best but if you wish to really tackle translating the DDJ there is no choice but to begin to learn the language beyond the use of dictionaries.cy among many authors today (with just an air of hubris) to \\"translate\\" texts from a variety of traditions.  This one is no different.  Hinduism is thrown into the mix and the two are compared as if they are saying the same thing (Victor Mair has also tackled this approach, though from a different level).      This is a nice teaser at best but if you wish to really tackle translating the DDJ there is no choice but to begin to learn the language beyond the use of dictionaries.	2003-09-11
US	50374595	R10E6JG2OD4UUH	0738523232	701596952	Youngstown:   Postcards From The Steel City  (OH)  (Postcard History Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A unique slice of history...	This is a gem of a book showing Youngstown's history in the form of postcards.  <br />The book is presented in a sepia tone giving it a look of nostalgia.  On each page is a postcard in a thematic trip through Youngstown's early history.  There are captions under each photo that give a bit of historical background.<br />If you've been on any online auction recently, you'll find that postcards are abundant, even postcards pushing 100 years old.  They provide a unique slice of history on how a city such as Youngstown was perceived and presented.  Today it is all but impossible to find current postcards of Youngstown.  <br />This is a nice book to have in your collection or to lay on your coffee table as a conversation starter.  It is a nice tribute to an age gone by.	2003-09-04
US	50374595	R7A2N623B3WOA	0915957671	637008156	Even Angels Ask: A Journey to Islam in America	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Humbling...	This is without a doubt a must read book for anyone raised in the West, specifically in America, who is intrigued by Islam as a viable spiritual path.  In spite of the stereotypes and media bashing that takes place regarding Islam and Muslims there are many in the West who are converting.  Mr. Lang is one of them.  <br />The story of his journey is told humbly, cautiously, even reservedly.  And this is the merit of the book.  Strangely enough, his perspective allows for great conversation on the distinction between Islam's claims of absolute truth in a religious sense and those of the cultural edifice that surrounds Islam, often confused with the religious claims of Islam.  <br />Mr. Lang is thus in a unique position to provide just critique from within the fold of Islam to goad Muslims to what is real and true within Islam.  And his views are well articulated and crystal clear.<br />The story of his reversion to Islam is told in a heartfelt manner and is very touching.  I have corresponded with him and he is a genuine seeker, one who is not satisfied with the status quo and the formal and ritualistic.  This book expresses his longings both before and after is reversion.  It is told in a very human and very heartfelt manner.<br />It is a must read for Westerners to understand the difficulty in understanding Islam and for Muslims outside of the West toward realizing what is and is not cultural when it comes to Islam's claims at universal truth.	2003-07-30
US	50374595	R3R1N2TGRPCVYQ	055334935X	524015341	Tao Te Ching: The Classic Book of Integrity and the Way	Books	4	21	23	N	N	I really didn't like this one at first...	It has, however, grown on me.  Victor Mair is obviously a scholar of the highest order when it comes to this particular text.  He is well versed in scholarly areas that are literally foreign to me.  Over time, they have begun to make sense a bit more but I was quite put off by this in the beginning.  The other thing that was off-putting was his frequent use of 'I' in terms of his studies of Taoism.  His reference also to 'new' and 'never before considered' avenues of comparison between Taoism and Hinduism gave me the impression of braggadocio that was quite disconcerting.  I couldn't get passed what seemed to me to be scholarly arrogance, a bit too puffed up on knowledge (which, for readers of the Tao, can lead one astray...).  <br />I've since gotten beyond that and have begun to learn from what he has to say.  I believe what he has to say is valuable and needs to be considered (albeit with some salt).  He does know his stuff.  As a scholar, and as one who has obviously put a great deal of thought into dissecting the nuances of translating ancient Chinese terms into more modern English, he has done an exquisite job in helping to really understand what the terms literally mean.  <br />The drawback with this, however, is that it tends to be a bit dry and overly scholastic in nature.  But on the same note this is also important in trying to really get to what the terms mean rather than what we may read into them (though this is not so cut and dry as it may sound).<br />So I have begun to really appreciate his unequalled journey into the meanings of the terms and their context (though his journeys into comparing them to Hindu/Buddhist equivalents gets a bit tedious...) really helps me in drawing out deeper meanings when balanced with other translations.<br />So kudos to his effort.  It is really beginning to grow on me.  I suppose my issue is not with him, per se, but the havoc that pure academia can wreak.  Moving beyond this, however, it becomes clear that he is merely trying to rattle those of us who have become quite comfortable in our views on the Tao Te Ching.  A must for anyone's collection of translations (and a big help, I would imagine, if you know Chinese and are more aware of the difficulties in its translation into English).	2003-07-14
US	50374595	R1NSYJOEL5K500	0385472579	731659019	Zen Speaks: Shouts of Nothingness	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Delightful!	Hard to imagine that a cartoon could unfold the depths of Zen.  Perhaps it is the fact the cartoons are brief yet encapsulate so much.  Personally, I find it to be in the expressions of the characters in the drawings that tell the story.  I really feel the smiles throughout the book and can almost see them winking along with that smile.  <br />Never straying from the seriousness of Zen, this little gem really reveals the joy that lies underneath.  A great way to get started; a great little reminder for those already underway.	2003-07-11
US	50374595	RX7HQVHOQ6I88	0062502166	372082215	The Essential Tao : An Initiation into the Heart of Taoism Through the Authentic Tao Te Ching and the Inner Teachings of Chuang-Tzu	Books	4	19	19	N	N	My intro to the Way...	This book holds fond memories for me.  I carried it for a long time, perusing it occasionally, trying to get a hold of this thing called 'the Tao'.  But, as with the Way of the Tao, one day I simply 'got it'.  And this entire book made complete sense.  My life would never be the same.  There is before and after that moment.  So for that I hold it in high regard.<br />As I've matured a bit and have become familiar with other translations, this one shows its limitations.  It is a great introduction and Cleary obviously knows his stuff.  But it is written with a Western (American?) audience in mind.  <br />While all translations carry interpretation as well, this one leans more toward an interpretation, one tailored to a Western audience (though definitely not as tailored as others, e.g. Stephen Mitchell's).  So while it does makes sense of the text it also rides that edge of losing something as well.<br />The inclusion of Chuang-Tzu also makes the book a great value.  Chuang-Tzu brings great humor and insight to the Tao Te Ching.  Cleary's translation is clear but is a bit scholarly (though I suppose it is difficult for anyone to bring out the playfulness of the text, thus Lao-Tzu's concept that 'if it can be explained it ain't the Tao').<br />There are some translation of certain lines that I prefer and find brilliant.  For example, 'when everyone knows good as good, this is bad' adds a different twist to the traditional rendering of 'when everyone knows good as good, this is because bad is already there'.  But there are other translations that yield the same gems.  I literally have seven different translations.  Yikes.  For a Way that is supposed to be unspoken, there are certainly a lot of words about it.<br />All in all, though, this is a great starter.  Make sure to add it to or add to it other translations to really seek the essence and, more importantly, to live it.	2003-06-11
US	50374595	R30JLKCH2ONSAR	093351123X	896076895	Was Jesus Crucified?	Books	4	22	31	N	N	A must read...	Mr. Deedat, now deceased, has written a tremendous work that anyone, Christian, Muslim or other, should read. He does what many who argue against the crucifixion often do not do -- he uses the New Testament texts. Keeping in mind that he is reading it as a Muslim and not through the lens of Christianity as it is traditionally understood (understandable considering that Christians read the Quran through the lens of Christian belief), his conclusions are striking.     Christians who read this should give it serious consideration if not to rethink their own beliefs then to at least consider that the New Testament evidence is not so plainly obvious and it is forged through years and years of teaching and exegesis. One must truly learn to strip away what is explanatory and get back to what the text actually says. Far too many Christians know how to argue from Scripture framed in explanation and have not really digested the Scriptures and made it their own.      This is not to say by any means that Mr. Deedat is in fact accurate in his conclusions. This is merely to say that the use of logic and reason can find in Scripture many conclusions, as can be seen here. If it was so cut and dry, there would not be so many divisions within Christianity itself (or in any religion for that matter). He does uses Biblical scripture thoroughly and his conclusions do deserve serious consideration.      I think most importantly his conclusions help explain how it is that Jesus is understood in Islam and how Islam itself is understood.  In this regard this is a highly valuable book.    Why four stars? There is a certain level of showmanship, even braggadocio that is a bit disconcerting and one notices not what is said but the attitude of the one speaking. He comes across in many places as a bit smug. Granted, many Christians bash Islam and its Prophet also in similar manner, but I found this to be a distraction.    All in all, however, this is a valuable piece of literature for anyone interested in the subject of the crucifixion and also in the differences between the worldview of Christianity and/or Islam.	2003-04-15
US	50374595	R2QSWCT8QWNPCU	0385188137	358917553	002: The Old Testament Pseudepigrapha, Vol. 2: Expansions of the Old Testament and Legends, Wisdom and Philosophical Literature, Prayers, Psalms, and Odes, Fragments of Lost Judeo-Hellenistic works	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Vital to understanding early Christianity/Rabbinical Judaism	This is the most spectacular volume of literature from the period c. 200 BCE to 200 CE.  There is the Hebrew Bible and there is the New Testament writings.  In between is the myth of the 'four hundred years of silence'.  This volume and the second volume reveal that writings during this time were prolific.  <br />In this volume are such vital works as 1 Enoch.  The apocalyptic literature which began, if scholars are correct, with Daniel (and traces in some of the Prophets) blossomed into an entire genre of literature which would greatly influence what would become Christianity.  The book of Jude quotes from 1 Enoch expressly and Revelation and other New Testament books bear many commonalities wih 1 Enoch.  This is just a taste of what is in store for the reader.  <br />This volume and the second volume reveal just what was going on in the Judaism(s) of this period of time.  There was lots going on and it is not so cut and dry as it is often traditionally taught.  The variety of beliefs derived, no matter how loosely, on the Jewish Scriptures is endlessly diverse.  This book does an excellent job of placing the actual writings in one book.<br />Charlesworth and those who have introduced/translated the works contained herein have done a great job tracing the history of the works and what is known about the communities in which they were written.  Also included are margin notes that show the connection, directly or indirectly, to the Tanakh and the New Testament (including the Apocrypha).  <br />This is a necessary resource for anyone interested in and open to understanding exactly how it was that Christianity and Rabbinical Judaism emerged from the tumult of the period between c. 200 BCE and 200 CE.	2003-04-15
US	50374595	RDOXZR3QBDOIA	081291886X	112575006	Homestead: The Glory and Tragedy of an American Steel Town	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A book that needed to be written...	I couldn't put this book down.  Having grown up in Youngstown, Ohio, home of one of the many 'Little Steel' companies, I was excited to have found a book about the history of the steel mills, from their birth to their death.  This book is the best I've found so far.<br />It traces the history of U.S. Steel and its formation and growth during the Carnegie years to its internal self destruction that besets so many industries.  The book is chock full of interesting facts not only about the company itself but about its major players, adding a very personal touch to the story.<br />Serrin, having covered much of this territory during his career as a newspaper reporter, also does a nice job adding a personal touch by including stories of those who worked the mills, the very people often overshadowed or oversimplified in the political wranglings of the industry.  Human beings founded the steel industry, human beings ran it and the very backbone of its operation was human beings.  People died working in these mills.  It was dangerous but the people took great pride in what they built.  Serrin includes many a personal story and narrative and it adds some yin to a very yang industry.<br />Serrin does an excellent job conveying the power the steel companies -- in this case, U.S. Steel -- had and the cold and calculating methods they used to maintain this power.  Perhaps the most interesting element of this power struggle was the battle over the years with men organizing and the growth of the unions.  The battle between management and the rank and file was always present and Serrin handles the material well.  <br />I suppose the most difficult job he had was adding that extra personal touch.  Even though his reporting is top notch and he gives many a personal opinion and thought, there is still the feeling that it is an outsider's report.  I can't say this is a criticism and perhaps the only way to really get inside is for the workers themselves to have written memoirs.  <br />It is still an excellent book and provides a fascinating overview and introduction to a complicated subject and it reads easy and is well written.	2003-03-18
US	50374595	R1MYKI8L0KA1EU	1580930565	576818247	American Ruins	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More personal than its predecessor..	Vegara's prior work on this subject, The New American Ghetto, is a landmark photo essay on buildings that have been abandoned.  His title of this work is fitting for his passion and belief in what 'ruins' represent.  They do not represent the end but moments frozen in time.  He goes so far as to envision the ruins in his photos as a modern day Parthenon.  This is not vanity on his part but a deep understanding and vision.<br />There is a chronology to many of his photos, showing buildings in various stages, some not decomposing but being restored.  It is the power of his vision that notes that these restorations are a bit too perfect.  <br />He dives a bit deeper into his subjects.  This book, to me, has more of his person involved and is less objective than his prior work (which is also outstanding).  It is not as sociologically in depth (i.e. does not spend as much time detailing the buildings, its occupants and/or its history) but gives more personal narrative and insight.  <br />It's a unique perspective and an amazing collection of photographs of buildings and landmarks that once were, no longer are or will soon cease to be.	2003-03-02
US	50374595	R76HSPAY8IHZ0	081296618X	166313123	Islam: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Goes down easy...	Karen Armstrong, author of A History of God, writes well.  She has a gift with words and a style that eases the reader through very difficult material.  <br />I was highly enthused when I first got hold of this book.  Like her other books, it is easy to read and highly engaging.  She summarizes a very complex history nicely and covers major points of this history in encapsulated prose.  If you are looking for a good overview of their history this is a great place to start.     <br />Now for the bad news.  She, in attempting to make the book palatable and not bogged down in theology and the 'warts and all' of historical detail, only skims the surface.  I was left wondering what went wrong with Islam.  If the view of Islam presented here is the 'true' Islam, how do we grapple with what it has become (at least its presentation in the more popular Western media outlets)?  This book does not seek to answer those questions.  Some have accused her of 'whitewashing' Islam's history.  I suppose we must look at her intent.  I believe she has attempted to write a good entry-level book in order to engage the reader to the positives rather than the negatives (which are much too easy to find) in order to even desire to understand it rather than attack it outright.  In this she has succeeded quite well.  <br />If you wish to understand the deeper meanings and varied histories of Islam's history, you may start here but do not be fooled.  This book only scratches the surface.	2003-02-18
US	50374595	RRRSQUSU6P3GI	0521334810	729498601	Steeples and Stacks: Religion and Steel Crisis in Youngstown, Ohio (Cambridge Studies in Religion and American Public Life)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fascinating look at a little known movement...	I live in Youngstown and have only recently begn to dive into the city's past. It gained national, even world, recognition in the heyday of the steel industry as one of the largest manufacturers of steel in the world. It has now garnered a reputation as one of the most corrupt cities in the nation. Yet there is something good here, something strong. It simply doesn't get the press coverage.<br />Here is a book that discusses the movement called the Ecumenical Coalition where a group of religiously diverse groups came together to put their faith in action in the social arena. When the steel mills abandoned the people who gave their lives for the good of the company, this group sought to bring ethics and morals into the corporate world. For anyone who believes there is no place in the corporate world for faith, ethics or morals, all we have to do is run down the list of scandals over the past several years.<br />Here was a unique response to deindustrialization. Whereas many cities merely folded without much of a fight, Youngstown fought back. It may not have been victorious in preventing the shutdowns but it showed the world the heart of the city. It also revealed that ethics plays a part in running successful businesses. In this regard, it was successful.<br />This book was written by an individual whose father-in-law worked the mills and who was present for much of the movement. It really provides some interesting insights and details of a movement that was overshadowed by the destruction and havoc wrought when the mills left town. <br />I give it four stars as it is a bit dry. I was excited because I am from the area and the information was fascinating to me but it is not an exciting read. But it is well written and well documented and seems to me to be relevant today in a world where religion has taken a back seat and corporate (and individual) greed is on the rise.	2003-02-11
US	50374595	R2K2XJH0DFFHH9	0813523311	748294078	The New American Ghetto	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Life in places unexpected...	The photographs in this book are gripping. While the narrative is interesting regarding the sociology of the rise (and fall) of the ghetto in several American cities, what is most stunning about this book, perhaps obviously, are the photographs.<br />How many of us have driven by abandoned or decaying buildings and have either reminisced or have wondered about its history? I think most of us have experienced this. Vergara has captured those moments on film. Yet his interests and the style of his photographs reveal life bursting, or seeping, from behind the apparent emptiness and abandonment. Snippets of conversations or ponderings from those who live in the neighborhoods photographed and quotes from various 'experts' give a framework through which the photographs reveal what is behind the facade. <br />Graffiti reveals insight and inspiration. And there are various characters outside of the mainstream who find meaning and life in what those who have abandoned these buildings called 'decay'. An intinerant preacher, a modern day Noah and her ark and a whole host of other individuals reveal to us that no matter what it looks like on the outside, there is a spark in all of us that hopes and dreams and envisions a better tomorrow.<br />This book succeeds on many levels, a sociological level, a picturesque level, a historical level and, most important in my opinion, a human level. It's a book you can peruse over and over again and find something new with each visit.	2003-02-04
US	50374595	RX6D6GHWA4ORX	0679743650	192174797	13th Gen: Abort, Retry, Ignore, Fail?	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Some great quotes in here...	I bought this book when it first came out because, well, I don't remember why.  I think it had something to do with Coupland's Generation X book and the whole notion of actually being a part of some 'generation'.  This book seemed a good way to find out what that actually meant.  And it did help me to understand the idea of a 'generation'.<br />It's kind of a quirky book, with a curious layout of sidebars containing quotes from individuals, from books and movies, experts and other pop culture references and statistics, that seem to drive home the point the authors are striving toward.  Unto that end it is a great package.  <br />The book is important as it gives a voice to a generation living life under the shadow of the 'Baby Boomers'.  These are voices that appear fresh with time and it is great to see them in print.  <br />Revisiting this book almost ten years it seems, though, that the book was trying too hard.  It got ahead of itseld in trying to sum up a generation (made up of individuals who didn't realize they were actually a generation!).  It seems to me that it was (and still is) a marketing label, a way to define individuals in order to 'target' them.  This, in my opinion, is the end result.  Looking back at it and the 'hipness' of the narrative voice and the layout, they were trying to market the book without appearing to market the book, trying to be 'hip' without appearing to try to be hip.<br />While the book does a remarkable job of compiling statistics and nailing down the 'whys' of 13th Gen (more accurate than the term Generation X) behavior, in the end the book doensn't help to explain me (born within the years 1961-81) too much at all.  It is good for some nostalgia but it feels a bit outdated.  It ultimately fades into oblivion with an overabundance of pop culture defintions, cliches and general and generic observations.  It seems that we (or is it just me?) have moved on.<br />I give it four stars for its readability, interesting statistics/quotes and its historical value.	2003-01-26
US	50374595	R1PUE1F8HMR7C1	0674791517	496589232	Traditions of the Bible: A Guide to the Bible As It Was at the Start of the Common Era	Books	5	32	32	N	N	The literature of Second Temple Judaism in one book...	Well, not all of the literature, but this book is by far the best encapsulation of all of the literature of the period in one place. Other works, such as those by Charlesworth, present the actual writings but I have not encountered a work that summarizes thematically the various beliefs of the period so concisely.<br />Kugel's book delves into the Pentateuch primarily, dealing with various themes from these books. But from here come multitudes of other themes shooting off from these main themes, taken us on a journey through the massive amounts of writings of this time. <br />This volume is a hefty price but if you like footnotes and references and other sorts of bibliographic material, it's a dream come true and worth the investment as you can revisit it at your convenience.  This version also contains sections following each particular theme called 'Other Readings' which contains elaborations on the main theme thus broadening the scope (and thus embracing even more of this literature) of understanding.  <br />This information is vital to understanding the emergence of Rabbinic Judaism and Christianity out of the milieu of Second Temple Judaism and neither can truly be understood without this valuable information. Such things as fallen angels, resurrection and life after death, the Messiah/Savior/Son of Man and other such themes all underwent great development during this period of turmoil and the unfolding of their development can be found in this literature.<br />Kugel does not so much as explain in scholarly fashion the details of this development but highlights the ideas and themes and presents the particular verses chronologically by quoting the various writings.<br />In the index are all of the writings with a brief history of them and their importance in the history of each faith. This book contains The Bible As It Was and then some.  In my opinion, as I've become hooked on the incredible diversity of exegesis (and some flights of fancy) from the Pentateuch,the difference in price is worth it (my only complaint would be that, whereas The Bible As It Was can be obtained relatively inexpensively through various outlets, this one still commands top dollar).      <br />All in all, this is a tremendous and vital resource for anyone seeking to really understand the origins of the split between Judaism and Christianity, the historical development of the beliefs of what became Christianity and Rabbinical Judaism and anyone interested in the historical underpinnings of theological ideas that ultimately affect our worldviews.	2003-01-08
US	50374595	R399E6Q0BLEDZQ	0520218833	628344069	Crossing the Border: Encounters between Homeless People and Outreach Workers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very well done...	Having been an outreach worker for roughly six years, I found this book to be surprisingly well written.  Too often, books tackling this subject present mere caracatures of the people it talks about, vieweing the subjects more as data or political process than real human beings. <br />This book presents many different points of views and differing types of outreach workers and the people they seek to help.  The homeless are not condescended to nor are the outreach workers glamorized.  It is quite factual and quite objective.<br />I saw myself in some of the types and picked up excellent little reminders about the whole homeless issue and those whose lives it affects.  If you are looking for a bit more of the 'human' connection of those who are on the front lines (as opposed to the theorists, the politicians, the directors and others removed from the field), this is a great book toward that end.	2002-12-26
US	50374595	R3P2VARYZYX9EZ	996074079X	750755447	The Noble Quran: Interpretation of the Meanings of the Noble Qur'an in the English Language (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	52	57	N	N	If you wish to understand Islam...	...this is a translation you need to invest in.  This is the version that is published in and distributed (usually for free) by the government of Saudi Arabia.  If you wish to understand the Wahhabi interpretation of Islam, this is the translation.    It is very clear and very succinct and easy to read.  It includes many tafsir (explanations from Islamic scholars) and Hadith of the Prophet Muhammad that adds depth to how the various verses have been understood and how they are understood today.      There are several appendices (at least in the version I have) which help explain the concept of jihad and the understanding of Jesus/Christianity from an Islamic point of view.    All in all, this version is very literal and very 'fundamentalist' (not in a militant sense but in the sense that the Quran is taken very literally and very seriously).  One can not help but be moved by it.    Again, if you wish to understand Islam better, especially the more 'fundamendalist' (i.e. no nonsense) understanding, this translation is a must have.  On an aside, I would balance it out with some other versions (for example, Muhammad Asad and Yusuf Ali) to get a 'feel' for the diversity of how the Quran is understood and presented to non-Arabic speaking people.    It's been five years since I originally wrote this review.  While I stand by the original review, I have honed my senses a bit more and realize the deficiencies - and dangers - of this translation.  It represents a very common translation that is very common throughout the U.S.  Those free Qur'ans you see online?  This is most likely the one you'll get.      What prompted the update was a book I just read by Khaled M. Abou Fadl called Conference of the Books and was so moved I had to include his words in this review.      In his chapter called \\"Corrupting God's Book\\" he takes this particular translation to task, calling it a \\"Trojan-horse\\" of a translation that is found in nearly every Islamic store or center in the U.S., noting that it has \\"the appearance of a translation\\" that takes \\"gross liberties\\" in translating the text.  Not only are the Qur'anic verses spun to the Wahhabi understanding, so too the hadith-reports contained in the footnotes are \\"grossly corrupted.\\"     Here it is in a nutshell:    \\"It is clear that the authors of the translation and their supporters do not like women, and that they projected their inadequacies and deformities upon God's text and the whole Islamic intellectual tradition.\\"       Wow.      Still, a vital translation if you wish to understand how the Qur'an is understood according to this particular ideology.	2002-12-17
US	50374595	R1VHQ2QVSXPXLR	155652241X	909665314	The Mole People: Life in the Tunnels Beneath New York City	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The one that started it all...	I'll never forget reading this book.  I've always been fascinated with darkness, with abandoned buildings and the underground (I used to crawl through the sewers even as a kid...).  My other fascination has been with homelessness.  Having been stunned by Margaret Morton's The Tunnel, I found this book.  It is absolutely mind boggling.  <br />Jennifer Toth gained access to the world of those living in the subway tunnels of New York City in a way few do.  Oddly enough, perhaps, many who live such a life really do enjoy talking about it; the only issue is who they trust to open up to.  They obviously trusted her, at least enough to share stories.<br />She attempts to bring some history to the story, tracing the fascination of people with the underground and dabbling in the history of some of the Amtrak tunnels under New York City.  This is probably the least interesting part of the book.  It is when she enters into the world and begins telling the stories of the people and unfolding mysteries, many almost (and most likely) mythical, that the book gets interesting.  <br />She does a remarkable job of placing the reader there and really tunes into the fear and spookiness of the tunnels.  It really isn't pretty, no matter how it may seem at first.  But the characters come alive and begin to seem real.  In other words, The Mole People begin to appear as real human beings.  The reader gains an understanding of how they ended up living in these circumstances and the defenses (or regrets) of the residents there.<br />It is engaging and gripping reading, especially imagining some of our worst fears (or darkest fantasies) brought to life.  I thoroughly believe that many of the things she states as facts are really exaggerations (people do love to impress others with fantastic stories) but not necessarily lies.  I've read critiques of her geography of the underground from NYC transit workers and it seems her information often misses the mark.  However, this does not detract fromthe book's overall impact.     <br />Since this book was written, the tunnels have been basically cleared out though there are people living there, just not as many as were believed to have lived there at one time.  Bernard, one of the main characters, made the talk show circuit a bit and some of the others (John, for example) made brief attempts at life above ground.  That's the paradox of a book like this: it brings attention to the issue but this attention does not always benefit those it seeks to help.	2002-12-16
US	50374595	R1TSCGLES5L2W5	0805241132	571123021	The Book of Legends/Sefer Ha-Aggadah: Legends from the Talmud and Midrash	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	The beauty of tradition...	In our overly scientific day and age, which has greatly influenced how we approach the Sacred, specifically Sacred texts, this book fills in the lacunae of the void.<br />In this book can be found the rabbinical answers to the nagging questions found in the Torah, questions that still linger today but which tend to be filled in with more historical/'scientific' answers than stories that lift the spirit.  Are these stories to be found in this book 'true'?  To ask the question misses the point.  They elevate the spirit and lift us out of the mundane and bring back the art of telling the story to reveal deeper insights into the mysteries of life.<br />The rabbis were curious and inquisitive souls and what we have here is a compendium of the diverse answers they often gave.  Some of the stories are fantastical, others whimsical and others simply bizarre, but they never cease to captivate and never cease to enlighten.  A vital resource for any library.	2002-11-19
US	50374595	R11AL5CPIR52FT	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Astounding in a subtle sort of way...	...I pick it up frequently and leaf through bits and pieces of it. Every time I do I gain deeper insight into the wiles of the evil we face in the world and especially the tricks encountered by believers in God. <br />Lewis, who taught literature at Oxford and who wrote The Chronicles of Narnia, has a very active imagination (and this is not a negative thing) and tells the story from the point of view of letters written from one of the servants of the devil (referred to as Father) who is tutoring a young devil in how to keep a new believer from staying in The Way.  The devil is subtle in many ways and really gives deep insight into the little tricks that men play. <br />God is referred to as the Enemy and the devil, by explaining from the negative point of view, reveals how God operates and how a believe gains staying power.  The bottom line is truly mysterious: grace.  Lewis' writing packs a punch.  There are no wasted words and each reading reveals more and more insight into the workings of evil in the world.<br />It traces the journey of one individual and the assortment of characters who surround him and touches on aspects of culture, of family, of the church world and even of falling in love.  It is written in such a style as to convict the reader without accusing as it is written not so much in generalities but in general truths that we can read ourselves into.<br />For those who doubt the reality of evil in the world, this really opens one's eyes to its many manifestations, whether one believes in a personal (i.e. 'real') devil or the devil as abstraction or personifaction of evil.  Either way, it is an eye opener.	2002-11-15
US	50374595	RER4A4QFOQHB4	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	12	16	N	N	By far the best apologetic book written...	From an intellectual point of view, this is by far the greatest apologetic work I have encountered.  Now, it doesn't mean I buy it hook, line and sinker, nor does it mean that because it is intellectually sound it is 'true' in the deepest sense of the word.  <br />But, in terms of Trinitarian Christian orthodoxy as I have come to understand it, Lewis simplifies an extraordinarily complex subject to its basics, thus the title 'mere' Christianity.  He cuts off the tendencies many of us have to go off on tangents about things that really don't matter in terms of the Gospel message and excise them at that point. <br />For those who think Lewis is deluded, consider his qualifications at Oxford.  He is an erudite writer who has a gift for analogies and thought provoking insights that really help the reader grasp what Christianity really espouses.	2002-11-15
US	50374595	R2BVLHXKO0X75H	0394700600	25815157	Declaration of Independence: A Study in the History of Political Ideas	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Vital...	I have read this book, off and on, several times.  It never ceases to amaze me.  I tend to be a controversialist and rely upon this book often to help those who seem convinced that the Founding Fathers were of a particular religious persuasion.  While foundationally on a personal level this may be true, in general they bowed down to a higher power: Reason.  Yet this was not new to them nor were their political theories.  Their roots came from somewhere else and that somewhere else was from the European soil they had left.<br />Becker does an awesome job dissecting the Declaration and its influences primarily from Jefferson through Locke.  The natural rights philosophy chapter is awesome.  This book is over seventy five years old and its arguments have been revisited and even countered but the book is still foundationally necessary for anyone who seeks to study the Declaration of Independence.  In terms of studying the Declaration, there is before Becker's book and there is after.<br />There are many revealing insights and oddities that appear when Becker displays the lines that have been cut from the original draft (e.g. notice there is no mention of slavery in the final version; the reasons for its excision are included in the book).  These little tidbits opened my eyes a bit to the relatively benign history of this document that I had been taught.  A little knowledge is a dangerous thing so have a little fun and check this book out.	2002-11-14
US	50374595	R1VQDSF5ZV1SXT	0674443020	734738555	The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Provides a different angle on the Revolution...	This book really opened my eyes to the 'ideas' behind the Revolution. There are so many books written on 'what' happened or 'how' it happened but really penetrating the 'why' of it has been a challenge or, at least, overly simplistic or optimistic. <br />It is arguable that a majority either did not want a break with Britain or were not overly aware that such a break was being considered. Most considered themselves to be English and thought that the English constitution had simply become corrupt, progressively moreso, and here in the land they had colonized was an opportunity for British subjects to replicate the best the English constitution held.  <br />Bailyn approaches this topic from an angle that very few have thought about prior, at least not in such detail and on such a scale, that of reading through the writings of the pamphleteers.  Orwell and Marx were pamphleteers.  Remember, this was long before mass media. Television, radio and other forms of instant communication were not to be found. The pamphlets were one of the prominent means of communicating ideas. <br />It is in exploring these ideas and ideals that we begin to see from another angle just what it was that led to the break with Britain. It was gradual and it was subtle, not intentionally so in the beginning nor premeditated.  Call it the Zeitgest, but it was not so simple as we are often led to believe. Bailyn explores in depth through what was written in the pamphlets and really seems to get into the minds of the writers and those whose ideas were the impetus toward a full scale revolution.   <br />This book provided me with a fresh perspective. While his prose is lucid and clear, the subject matter is thick with detail and requires active engagement with the book. But this makes it all the more worth your while.  I really believe that if you seek to understand the Revolution, you must have this book.	2002-11-10
US	50374595	R3ELX9YI360MNH	0195135091	533200031	Hidden Gospels: How the Search for Jesus Lost Its Way	Books	5	51	58	N	N	Refreshing...	Having studied, for a number of years, the very same texts Jenkins discusses in this book (see some of my other reviews), it dawned on me over time just what the agenda was behind those very scholars touting the texts as 'gospel' truths.  Just as they accuse the 'orthodox' of political power mongering, so too are they in the end doing the very same thing.  Mr. Jenkins has expressed quite clearly what I too discovered.  <br />While the texts do reveal much about the early Christian movement, they do not tell us anything new about the times of Jesus.  They tell us about the life and times of second and third century 'Christians'.  Rather than an orthodox Church suppressing a 'true' Christianity, it is more likely the other way around: these groups splintered from a Church already in existence.  And the texts we have reveal this -- not the early days of The Way.<br />Mr. Jenkins does a good, and in my opinion objective, job reporting the realities of the entire industry (and it is truly a powerhouse of an industry).  There is an agenda and the results of their scholarly findings look remarakbly similar to the current popular beliefs of our age.<br />Showing the other side of the coin, this book reveals just what is misleading, even wrong, about the claims.  For a long time I too was immersed in these texts and I too wanted to believe they were more representative and that the Church as we have it today in its various splinters was in fact a religious mechanism for political control (though I do believe there are some truths in this).  But the reality is that these texts are not 'all that'.  They, and the methodologies used in studying and presenting them to the mainstream, are flawed.<br />This is a book that lucidly and without sensationalism lays bare the facts.  It presents the facts on the texts themselves but it goes deeper and reveals what is behind the current studies on these very texts.  It is highly recommended to ensure that you don't buy this current wave of scholarship (which, as Mr. Jenkins reiterates, is far from 'new') hook, line and sinker.  If you don't wish to have your beliefs shaken then this book may not be for you.  But, if you are a seeker of facts in order to establish your own opinion, you won't be disappointed.	2002-10-13
US	50374595	R2BUQKT6AEMVF5	0521476860	939618717	The Particle Hunters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A great summation of particle physics...	I've owned this book for many years now and revisit it often.  It goes into excellent detail about the history of particle physics and the cast of characters but it also gives great explanations that make the complexity of the field quite clear.<br />From the discovery of the electron to the current understandings of the Standard Model (current as of the date of publication), the mysteries of the hidden world of particles is brought to life in lucid detail.  <br />It is not oversimplified yet it is not overly complex.  The examples clarify things in layman's terms yet there is enough to keep the person interested in the more technical and mathematical also occupied.  While I am no scientist nor am I mathematically inclined, I did not feel left out reading this book.  In fact, if one is feeling compelled to dive in a bit more deeply, this book has the information.<br />The graphs and the photos enhance the text.  Of all the books I've dabbled in pertaining to the field of particle physics, this is the one that has perhaps grounded me the most.  I never feel too 'esoteric' in my understanding nor did I become bogged down by technical language.  <br />On top of that, there is a bit of a sense of humor on the part of the authors that is quite refreshing.  A good book if you are interested in diving in a bit deeper than many of the more general books in the field.	2002-09-16
US	50374595	R2VCJGAEQSSJT8	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	4	7	10	N	N	How I imagine Islam to be...	That may seem like a strange heading but the more I read through the book and the more the Fremen characters became important and the saviors of the Dune universe the more I realized that Herbert tapped into the mystique of Islam from a Western vantage point.  His use of Islamic/Arabic terms is obvious and intentional and to an untrained ear it adds to the mystique.  But behind the terms is a theology that is rooted in Islam.  We cheer for the Fremen.  From the point of view of Islam, even though Dune's theology is syncretistic and a bit suspect, this is why this faith holds such an appeal.  Again, this may sound a bit strange but this was the impression the book left on me.<br />As for the sci-fi component, the universe Mr. Herbert has created is brilliant.  It is not grounded in this world or space but is a universe unto itself.  His knowledge of desert and the importance of water makes for engaging reading and one imagines the world as quite real and believable.  <br />But ultimately I was more drawn to the philosophy/spiritual component and the interest in the Messianic figure as such a figure can be found in all religions and the Islamic view of such a figure matches the Messianic figure here more than it does a Christian, even Jewish, type of figure.  This is not an Islamic theology book but this book opened my eyes a bit as to how the early Islamic community may have succeeded and why it has the appeal it does even today.  And, it seems to me, Mr. Herbert used this story as a launching pad to insert his idyllic worldview.<br />Why not five stars?  It (or I) just ran out of steam at the end.  But still one of the best fiction books I have ever read.	2002-09-04
US	50374595	RLDX5II9ZROQ8	0691017549	347833187	The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The father of social sciences...	This is a gem of a book that is not well enough known in the West. It is a brilliant account of the ordinary, things that take place around us that we often take for granted. Ibn Khaldun notices these things and explains them in an organized manner.<br />His theory of 'asabiya' describes the rise and fall of tribes and nations as a very natural process, one that occurs and will occur repeatedly throughout history.  His is perhaps the most coherent theory that I know of.  It's perhaps a bit simplistic but sometimes Occam's razor, the simplest explanation being the correct one, is true.<br />Many accuse Ibn Khaldun of leaving God out of the picture but, as a devout Muslim, God was the very being of everything he wrote. Just because nations rise and fall in a natural progression doesn't mean that God is not a part of the picture. God has given us free will and allows the world to operate on this free will, one side effect on a collective scale being the rise and fall of nations.  This notion underpins his work.  <br />He also catelogues in great detail all kinds of events, both natural and human, in a very interesting fashion. It is a treasure trove of a book, one that you can revisit in bits and pieces and always come away with a feeling of having learned something you already knew. <br />This book needs more recognition as it has influenced far more people than may be realized.  The kicker is that this book was written over 600 years ago, long before the notion of 'science' as we know it today as an independent and 'objective' approach to the study of reality really existed.	2002-08-28
US	50374595	R3PKQGHR47OP8P	0195047788	692498583	Down and Out, on the Road: The Homeless in American History	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The definitive account of homelessness...	This is by far the best and most definitive (and perhaps the only) account of homelessness from a sociological/historical perspective.  No drama here, no political agenda, no sensationalism.  It is a very matter of fact documentation of the rise of homelessness in this country.  <br />It begins simply enough with defining homelessness.  Originally those we call homeless today were seen as social outcasts, called vagrants, beggars, bums, vagrants or tramps.  Dr. Kusmer traces the origins of these words, something we often take for granted.  The use of the word 'homeless' in the public vocabulary did not reach general use until the 1980s.  <br />The overarching theme is that these are people and as such deserve respect no matter what they're situation.  Even though it is a historical account there are many personal accounts noted and one gets a good feel for the humanity presented in this book.  <br />As folks living in this situation, for whatever the reason and whatever the definition given, waxed and waned over time, so too did the perception of the public toward them.  Factors such as wars affected this population, so too factors such as economic downturns and the rise of the train.  Stereotypes are dispelled and this complex and diverse topic is laid out in a well-written style not overloaded with technical jargon.  <br />The documentation on this book is a feast.  I have literally spent hours following up on many of his footnotes, especially the accounts in the New York Times from the late 1800s.  Fascinating stuff grounded in history.  He has a grasp of his material and gives such a broad, though thorough, sweep of the issue that it will become the seminal resource for footnotes in years to come.	2002-08-27
US	50374595	RR7OQ2HV49FEE	0525467262	836472932	The Complete Tales and Poems of Winnie-the-Pooh	Books	5	6	7	N	N	All the magic of Winnie the Pooh...	This is a beautiful book.  This is definitely not the Disney version of Pooh.  This is the 'magical' and mysterious Pooh in all his glory.  The illustrations are timeless and add depth to the characters in the Hundred Acre Wood.<br />I've had friends young and old who have seen this book lying on my coffee table and have picked it up and have become like children again reading these tales.	2002-07-26
US	50374595	RD0R4TZU7B3OU	0691020442	203497234	Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, Volume 1: From Covenant to Community	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An absolute necessity...	If you are interested in comparing the three largest monotheistic faiths, what better way is there than to have the words -- Holy Writ, 'traditions' and/or the words of the earliest and more well known exegetes -- as they are recorded?<br />Mr. Peters does a marvelous job in compiling the words of the three faiths in thematic arrangement with some, but not much, commentary.  In other words, the words themselves, and not commentaries on these words, speak.<br />One may argue with some of the selections but on the whole this is an incredible and unique compilation.<br />The one-volume unit is thick and a bit pricey but well worth the investment.	2002-07-26
US	50374595	R23TBR66DWNS46	1568493789	104261773	Tell No Man	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A beautiful book...	Perhaps it was what I was experiencing when I first found this book in a second hand book store, but whatever the reason I could not put it down until I finished it.<br />It is a powerfully moving story written without heavy theological dogma as to what is involved when a person has a personal experience with the Divine and chooses to follow that calling.<br />This is a book that changed my life and seemed to come at just the right time.	2002-07-03
US	50374595	R3QZNOCHH8EBUR	0061142662	263981815	Tao Te Ching: A New English Version (Perennial Classics)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	It is what it is...	Ok, it's easy to knock Mr. Mitchell's translation. Yet he did get it published and it continues to sell well. Can the author be faulted? The publisher? The buying public? Not everyone can be a scholar; not everyone wants to read a scholarly version. Sometimes folks are just looking for plain English (i.e. sometimes folks don't want to work to understand). For a beginner, this isn't a bad place to start.<br /><br />I took a class about ten years ago on \\"Eastern\\" religions and this was the translation we were asked to buy even though the teacher was using Feng's translation. Having been relatively familiar with the Dao De Jing for a number of years prior to reading this one I was a bit put off. It was an easy read and there the endnotes are interesting but in the end I couldn't help think that it was just plain, to put it nicely, inaccurate and, more honestly, wrong.<br /><br />Here's his take on Chapter 5:<br /><br />\\"The Tao doesn't take sides;<br />it gives birth to both good and evil.<br />The Master doesn't take sides;<br />she welcomes both saints and sinners.\\"<br /><br />The original says that neither heaven nor the sage are humane (quite possibly a potshot at Confucianism); to them, people are the equivalent of straw dogs - a sacrificial image disposed of after being used for its purpose. It isn't impartial, as Mitchell notes; it is indifferent. It's pretty cut and dry; there is no hint of \\"welcoming\\" anyone which tends to personalize something that is ultimately impersonal.<br /><br />The Dao does not give birth to good and evil. The Dao transcends any and all such distinctions. The Dao may give \\"birth\\" to all things but good and evil are ultimately in the minds of men, not the Dao and \\"sin\\" (which has a very specific connotation in the Western world) is a completely foreign concept to the DDJ.  This is a case of a Biblical idea imposed on the DDJ. It isn't necessarily intentional on the author's part but the trouble with this work is that the language used in order to make it more \\"plain\\" often has cultural undertones that miss the mark of the Chinese original.<br /><br />As I continued to trudge through it began to sound more like New Age mishmash with splashes of Christianese tossed about. There is a tendency of many a translator/interpreter in this day and age to lump all religions together as one in essence (and this somehow makes them \\"mystical\\"). In reality, this is basically Man as the measure of all things. It's the smorgasbord approach - pick and choose what you like. It will appeal to those who don't really care enough to understand a particular text in its context. It's better to feel good and Mr. Mitchell certainly accomplishes this.<br /><br />Interesting that Mr. Mitchell has translated the Bhagavad Gita, Gilgamesh, the Book of Job and has to his credit the \\"essential\\" teachings of Jesus. Who determines what is essential?<br /><br />This approach isn't transformative; it conforms to what is already believed. If you start here, don't stay too long.	2002-06-20
US	50374595	R3A2A3ELBGKDIR	0816521433	906305652	Rubbish!: The Archaeology of Garbage	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Dao of garbage...	This is a remarkable book.  Using a scientific approach to rubbish, a team of archaeologists from the University of Arizona dive into the layers of what we throw away and reveal more about us then we can even begin imagine.  <br />Every page unfolds an interesting tidbit of trivia, an astouding insight into those things that divide human beings socioeconomically, and those quirky little things we do, quite often un- or sub-consciously.  <br />Who would have imagined rubbish could be so interesting and, oddly enough, so wonderful?  You'll never be able to look at your trash, or your neighbor's, the same way again.	2002-06-18
US	50374595	R1IGUBIIBTAJHA	0375503226	257789457	Flophouse: Life on the Bowery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One paycheck away...	The reason we are so drawn to (and, in the same breath, repulsed by) books such as this one is that they show us the truth that is locked up inside of us. They present a side of reality many do not see in pursuit of the paycheck running from the fears presented in this book. And, yes, the reasons why they are at the 'flophouse' is infinitely complicated.<br />The photos are stunning and the stories are minimalist which has a gripping effect. The photos and the stories open up a world that is almost mythical. Penetrating is the word that comes to mind.<br />Study them, feel them, connect with them, learn to love them. But do not judge them and do not run from them. Hold onto them and, in the midst of our bustle and struggle, keep them dear in our hearts. And, if one is so compelled reach out, not as veoyeurs, but with compassion, sharing with, realizing that our human wholeness is dependent upon such individuals as these whose lives may be unlike anything we could imagine. <br />For only when we are willing to get 'real' and walk in the valley of the shadow of death, and this with others, can we ever really become human.  These characters are but a shadow of aspects of our own selves.	2002-06-17
US	50374595	R1KNXYSEMA22J	0553299611	138629087	Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A good dog...	Much expectation approaching this book. Took me several years to read it as I was afraid to be disappointed. To read this, leave any and all expectations at the door pertaining to his previous book. Read it fresh.<br />While the tone is somewhat melancholy, there is a sense of spirit bursting free (if only he'd let it!). But the journey, the inquiries, the cultural notes are brilliant. As for the title of the review, it's at the end and it sums up the book. <br />Highly recommended. <br />(This is an old review under an old email address.)	2002-06-06
US	50374595	R1UPQLDICELNHJ	0865476268	85426275	Postmodern Pooh	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Howlingly funny...	...yet shockingly frightening.  It took me a while to 'get' the meaning of the pieces in this book because at first I thought they were real!  The pieces are excellent.  For example, after reading the 'feminist' perspective on Milne, I could have sworn that he was a misogynist.<br />Yet it soon became apparent that these essays provide brilliant exposes of our postmodern intellectual traditions.<br />Just as Will Rogers and Dick Gregory would read straight from the newspapers without commentary and would be met with laughs at the absurdity of the pieces read, so too did I find myself doing the same with these pieces.<br />Not only do they present in clear fashion the 'truths' espoused in the various philosophies of our day but by reading these very philosophies into the Pooh stories, the hubris of humanity glares from between the lines.  I walked away not only educated and humored but humbled.<br />It became apparent that we can read whatever we like not only into the Pooh stories but into pretty much anything we so desire.	2002-06-04
US	50374595	R1C6CQ7C9IWMYH	187904529X	120434814	The Last Trial: On the Legends and Lore of the Command to Abraham to Offer Isaac as a Sacrifice (Jewish Lights Classic Reprint)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Isaac was killed?	Resurrected? The ram was in the Garden of Eden before it appeared in the thicket?<br />These are all stories derived from the Akedah throughout Jewish history, some older than others, some really stretching the text of the Bible. The process of midrash, answering those nagging questions about puzzling texts, filling in the spaces of various Biblical stories, has a long history, much of it written down in the various writings of the Rabbis after the fall of the Temple in 70 CE. One of the prominent stories which had taken on a life of its own after the writings of the Hebrew Bible had ceased (c. 165 BCE or so) was that of the sacrifice of Isaac.<br />If anyone is interested in the 'Jewish legends' (to borrow Ginzberg's title) and the lost art of story telling this is a wonderful addition to your library. Shalom Spiegel does a remarkable job in summarizing these stories as the pertain to the Akedah in great detail and at great length for such a small book.<br />Spiegel dives into the various threads of the traditions associated with the Akedah.  Geza Vermes tapped into this a bit in his Scripture and Tradition in Judaism but Spiegel broadens the scope a bit.  It is remarkable how many variants on this story are to be found throughout Jewish history, some of it still followed, some of it much more obscure.<br />This book reveals, to a degree, just how the development of this particular story led to the interpretation by the Christian movement and, though it is not discussed in this book, that of Islam.  The stories found in these two religious traditions find their roots much more in the traditions than is commonly understood (or admitted).<br />The word of God is not static and is not confined to text. It lives and breathes and in this little book reveals proof of such life.  A wonderful little gem.	2002-05-22
US	50374595	R2GOHZLY0Z01L9	9004070966	169140879	Scripture and Tradition in Judaism: Haggadic Studies (Studia Post Biblica - Supplements to the Journal for the Study of Judaism)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely brilliant...	I'm not sure if everyone would agree with some of Geza Vermes' interpretations but this book is eye opening.  I first got turned on to this book while studying Islam where I learned that the son who was to be sacrificed by Abraham was a willing and active participant.  This was not the way I understood it.  So I did some digging and, in time, ended up at this book.<br />While the book tackles more than just the Akedah it does discuss in detail the fact that many of the oral traditions of Judaism made their way in written form into the New Testament and that this oral tradition had a tremendous impact on Christianity.  This 'tradition' falls outside of the Hebrew Bible as we know it yet it had a significant impact on both Christianity and Rabbinical Judaism, one obviously, the other less obvious.<br />For example, we find that Jesus, of whom Isaac was considered by Christians as a 'type' of sacrificial lamb for his people and by Jews as a 'type' of martyr willing to die for the Nation, was a willing participant in his own sacrifice.  Vermes draws out the possibility (perhaps probability) that the understanding of Isaac's role in the Akedah by Jesus' day had, through tradition, become that of a willing and active participant.  <br />As in Islam the Quran reflects what might be seen as a developed tradition of what is only touched upon in the Hebrew Bible, so too does Christianity, several hundred years earlier, reflect a developed tradition.  It is 'tradition', outside of the Bible, outside of the mainstream, lying at what is considered by some to be the fringe, where things get interesting because it is here where we are truly able to begin putting ourselves 'back' there.<br />There is much in the New Testament that would be quite baffling if it were not for books/literature from the Second Temple Period that unfold what would otherwise remain enigmatic.  Vermes unfolds the implications of some of these traditions in this book.  It is quite scholarly but it is well worth the read.	2002-05-22
US	50374595	R2GTNCQQHOHEZS	063113008X	624021800	Scriptures, Sects and Visions: Profile of Judaism from Ezra to the Jewish Revolts	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Top notch...	This is by far the best introduction to the literature of the period noted in the book title.<br />Mr. Stone is editor of \\"Jewish Writings of the Second Temple Period : Apocrypha, Pseudepigrapha, Qumran, Sectarian Writings, Philo, Josephus\\" (which I haven't found on amazon).<br />This is an invaluable resource for anyone who is interested in the more historical or phenomenological (and, to a degree, theological, though more in the sense of the 'influence' of outside sources) approaches to the field of religious studies.  <br />The Jewish faith is much more than the Tanakh; Christianity did not develop in a vacuum; and Islam bears in its traditions traces of a Judaism and a Christianity long hidden in the shadows.<br />This book unfolds some of what lies hidden underneath and within these religions.<br />Mr. Stone's understanding and grasp of the literature and its meaning and implications of this literature for religious studies is presented here in a concise, easily readable, manner, one that both captivates and astounds.  <br />If one is unfamiliar with the writings of this period (or even with the very fact that there are writings from this period) and the fact that in these writings are traces of various beliefs that have impacted the developments of these religions (especially those puzzling remarks found in, for example, the book of Jude or 2 Peter in the New Testament), I can think of no better place to start.<br />I'm sorry the book is out print.  But sometimes that which we work hardest for is that which we appreciate the most.	2002-04-24
US	50374595	R1FH216X1CV7KC	0674004779	315356531	The Muslim Jesus: Sayings and Stories in Islamic Literature	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Fascinating...	This is a wonderful book.  If you truly wish to understand the Islamic view of Jesus, this book is a must.  Through its pages are many stories and sayings of Jesus, some instantly recognizable, others less so.  <br />Rather than studying 'dry' comparative religious texts discussing 'Islam vs. Christianity/Jesus' (which are foundationally necessary), try reading this book as an alternative.  Not only will you come to understand how Jesus is viewed in Islam but you will also get a sense of the 'spirit' of Islam.  <br />The introduction presents the major themes in any discussion on this topic and raises many questions, yet leaves them open ended.  Yet the answers make their way through the pages of the rest of the book.  This book will enlighten you to the fact that in the earliest days of Islam, the bitter and often violent antagonism that seems so apparent these days was not always so and in that sense perhaps hope will spring eternal from these pages.	2002-03-26
US	50374595	R32XFMO1EL2CG7	0385418868	26788304	The Power of Myth	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Still love it...	Love it. This is one of those books that knocked me out of my shell. I don't necessarily agree with everything he says (who does?) but his views and interpretations opened my mind up to the fact that it is o.k. to have different views and interpretations. <br />At the very least, he got me to actually look at the stories and symbols in the world and to search deeper for meaning. After all, we are all looking for meaning and it is right in front of us. We really don't have to look too far.<br />Whether or not you agree with his views, you will never look at the world the same way again. If we all looked at the world the same way, what would we have to talk about? <br />(FYI: This is an old review under an old email address.  <br />Update: This book radically changed my life and I still revisit it from time to time.  <br />One critique: Campbell notes, almost in passing, that he knows nothing of the Christian faith as practiced in much of the Deep South (i.e. the 'Holy Rollers').  This is a magnificent, vibrant and living faith and Campbell addresses it almost as a footnote.  Just goes to show, we can't know everything.<br />I will say that Campbell may be considered the equivalent of C.S. Lewis in the mythological realm (although Campbell seems to cling a little more tightly to the intellect).  Just as with Lewis, certain 'red flags' will appear as you traverse territory unknown, so too will Campbell's works present 'red flags' as you journey.  Whether this can be written off as New Age or the perfect type of theology/mythology for the elitist (i.e. understanding without commitment), Campbell's book broadens the scope of our understanding of the power, and signifiance, of myths in our lives)	2002-03-13
US	50374595	R2RZ5H7PUU1ID5	0334009723	904845219	Marx and the Bible: A Critique of the Philosophy of Oppression	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Radical shift of paradigm...	I picked this book up on a whim several years ago and read through it once and it altered my Biblical paradigm quite a bit (although that shift lacked the substance necessary to speak in anything but generalities).  I have recently revisited it and studied it more in depth and am convinced that this book nails down what is so radical about Biblical faith.  It brings it back down to earth and reveals how relevant, and necessary, this faith is in the world.    Contrary to the title, the book is not about how Marxism is Biblically justifiable nor is it to say that the Bible is really Marxist.  While there are similarities in social outlook, the two do not become one.    This book makes the claim that the essence of the faith in Yahweh is rooted in justice to the oppressed.  As I work with the homeless in my community, my idea of the essence of the Biblical faith has also been radically altered.  My experience coincides with what he says in this book.      While other faiths may have been metaphysically similar and other faiths may have been 'religious', the Hebrews were called to something radically new -- a faith that impels them to seek justice for those who have formerly not had a voice.    The book reads like a textbook and is thick (and I mean thick) with exegesis.  It is rooted directly in the author's work in his native country with the poor.  Reading Scripture through the lens of the poor and from a non-Western filter leads to a radical reading of the Bible.    His exegesis on faith, justice and law is remarkable and should be read and digested.  Even if one doesn't agree with what he says, what he says (and many other 'Liberation Theologians' from countries other than that of the West) needs to be heard.  This is a good place to start.    Update: I still revisit this book almost ten years after this review was written.  This book turned me on to the prophets as something more than just fortune tellers (which is traditionally, it seems, how they are understood...that or a bunch of downers...).  If I had one critique it would be that this work rises and falls on the Documentary Hypothesis.  I don't have the background to analyze how it holds up in light of modifications to the theory as he understood it but it is significant as he consistenly uses it in his argumentation.    I've seen varying critiques of this book, some of which reveal, as Walter Brueggemann calls it, the 'royal consciousness' of many churchified folks.  It's not easy to see the water in which you swim.      That being said, the book is still an eye opener as to how easy it is to dilute meaning over time in the light of different cultures.  From the original use of a term to its development over time through the Septuagint and into the New Testament and into a Church rooted in a more 'western' culture, his effort in trying to determine actual meaning in context is well worth the adventure.	2002-03-05
US	50374595	R8XV33YVOMUXI	0809132443	399137077	Doing Faithjustice: An Introduction to Catholic Social Thought	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of the strengths of the Catholic Church...	...is its teachings and praxis of social justice.  Father Kammer, formerly the head of Catholic Charities USA nicely summarizes in depth (without the highbrow theological talk) Catholic social teaching.<br />If you work with people day in and day out, especially those considered by the cold eyes of society as 'downtrodden' (those with spiritual insight realize that there is no 'we' and 'they'), this book will help provide you with some resolve and help put into perspective the application of faith and why it is we are here.	2002-01-20
US	50374595	R3A468HX03FF8M	068485774X	458667936	The Great Poems of the Bible: A Reader's Companion with New Translations	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A quietly moving tribute...	Kugel's book provides wonderful insight into some of the subtleties that lie behind these 'poems' of the Bible so often lost in translation and literalized in this overly scientific day and age of ours.<br />The poems, with the commentary provided by Kugel, come alive on the page and Kugel's knowledge and enthusiasm for the material is obvious on each and every page.  A worthy addition to any collection.	2002-01-19
US	50374595	RWLSHLQK61E2O	0872862755	820043037	Sacred Drift: Essays on the Margins of Islam	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Puts the fun back in fundamentalism...	Contrary to much popular opinion of Islam as a monolithic giant, in its midst are the 'heretics' that put the fun back in religion.  Considering that such figures as Jesus and Muhammad were considered 'heretics' in their day the title is actually a compliment.      I picked this book up in a second hand bookstore on a whim.  I have revisited it several times and continue to do so often.  At first it appeared dark, mysterious, foreign, pointless.  But as I continued to explore it became more and more obvious that the light of the Divine makes its way through these pages and this Divine light I swear is grinning like the Cheshire cat in Alice in Wonderland.    Islam is diverse, vast, deep and this book explores some of those areas in the remote regions of both the physical and the spiritual world with style and wit and just a bit of a knowing smile.  Well worth the adventure.	2002-01-15
US	50374595	R3668SY0G52KL2	0736900160	581071525	The New Inductive Study Bible	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Absolutely my favorite translation...	This is by far the best translation I have come across yet.  It does not shy away from textual criticism and its revelation that many verses found in, say the Received Text, are not found in the oldest and most reliable manuscript evidence.  <br />Extensive sidebars and notations throughout as to these verses and as to alternate readings of certain words/phrases make for interesting reading and opens up the Sciptures in a very broad and enlightening way.  Implicitly, it helps provide key insight into the challenges that translators of the Bible have faced through the years.<br />While the NASB does not read as poetically as does the KJV it does not read as dry and 'plain' as the NIV.  The maps and charts provide significant help in understanding Christian theology in light of scholarly study.<br />It leans on the conservative side, textual criticism aside, but all in all this version has helped me to understand Christianity at a deeper and more intellectually, emotionally and spiritually satisfying level.	2002-01-15
US	50374595	R343CG0E04ISJ3	1567441386	715086720	The Message of the Quran (Vol 1)	Books	5	101	104	N	N	The spirit of the Quran...	...from a western point of view.  I was astounded upon reading this translation.  I continue to revisit.  Rather than doing a literal translation as many author translators do (Pickthall, Ali, etc.), Asad seeks the true 'spirit' of the Quran.  This is not to say he strays from the letter (at least not that I am aware of) but to say that he wants the deeper and truer meaning of the words to come through.  <br />It is said that there are seven layers of meaning to every verse of the Quran.  Asad is seeking this depth in his translation.<br />The extensive commentaries are remarkable and the insight he provides as a scholar on some of the verses do differ quite a bit from the more 'common' understandings but I firmly believe they are more in the 'spirit' of Islam and less influenced from the outside than many translations and subsequent commentaries such as Ali's.  <br />While Pickthall and Ali are quite literal in their interpretation, by remaining so close to the text, something is often missed.  And unless one knows Arabic and is familiar with how the various verses, as a whole, are understood in the light of the Sunnah of the Prophet, the Quran, in English, can be a challenging text, especially from a Western point of view.  <br />Asad's translation bridges this gap quite well and continued to leave me baffled as the Islam I thought I had come to know appeared much brighter in his translation.	2002-01-15
US	50374595	R110ANEYSRXNCL	0262631598	482207302	Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Feeling numb? Herein lies the power to feel again...	I found this book in a second-hand bookstore for under one dollar. Had never heard of it, had never heard of him but I am fascinated by the media, specifically advertising. I wore this book out and replaced it with the new edition from MIT Press. I love this book. I still can't understand it in places (this makes me study it even more to try and understand where he is coming from) but it definitely changed the way I view the media and my place within it. We are definitely beyond being influenced by the media; the media has become the ground from which we operate.<br />The book is challenging and it is scattered and chaotic but there is a cohesiveness to it. I suppose that style of writing was supposed to be symbolic of the way the world is (or is becoming). This book will help you to regain your ability to reintegrate yourself with the real world and stop living life as if you have &quot;autoamputated&quot; your true self only to watch it live on television. <br />While many of the analogies are &quot;out there,&quot; most are poignant and relevent. One example is McLuhan's interpretation of the Narcissus myth from Greek mythology. Narcissus did not fall in love with his own reflection. Narcissus had no idea that the reflection he saw was himself; he thought that what he saw was something other than himself. He became transfixed by the image; it was not love, it was numbness. The television screen is our reflection; we are not separate from it -- it is merely what is inside of us extended to the outside for us to look at, thus the subtitle, The Extensions of Man. We have become Narcissus; the media is the reflection we see and, instead of falling in love with the reflection, we have become numb, forgetting (or not aware) that what we are seeing is really us. Tell me that is not relevant today. <br />(P.S. This is an old review from an old email address.  Trying to consolidate them to my reviews file.  Two years later, I it still holds well).	2001-12-06
US	50374595	R3SBQ8WFURDNJF	0786882042	552353830	Journey to Nowhere: The Saga of the New Underclass	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	I live in Youngstown...	This is a remarkable book.  I am amazed it is out of print.  Springsteen's The Ghost of Tom Joad captures the spirit of this book remarkably well.<br />Youngstown, Ohio is, in many ways, a culture unto itself, a surreal location on planet America.  It is ironic because at one time Youngstown seemed to be the epitome of the America Dream.  The irony is that in many ways it is still the epitome of America although 'epitome' no longer means the 'goal' of the American Dream but connotates its polar opposite.<br />While this book may leave the reader with a feeling of hopelessness at the America since lost, there is a ray of hope that shines through its pages when one realizes that life is much more than what we see here.  The ray of hope is the power of the human spirit to overcome and to live in spite of circumstances.  <br />The photos are powerful.  The essays are poetic.  And the people come alive in its pages.	2001-12-01
US	50374595	RIOGXCSDTSXCN	0893819158	151200960	Fragile Dwelling	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful book...	Margaret Morton has a way of allowing her photos to speak to us. We are at once drawn and repelled by her photos. I believe her subject matter taps into something 'primal' (not in the sense of 'primitive' but in the sense of 'real') in all of us.<br />While the photos, in black and white, are quite stark, there is an element of beauty that seeps from the reality of the subjects photographed.  There is not much sensationalism and there is a sense of pride in the dwellings constructed.  Morton's photos and allowing the people to speak for themselves makes for an insightful and moving photo essay.<br />...	2001-12-01
US	50374595	R2HTQVRGQ49RWD	1559582995	336513074	The Last Great American Hobo	Books	5	3	5	N	N	We are each others' mirrors...	This is just a wonderfully written book and the photographs provide depth to its power.  This is not a condescending or an overly sympathetic account nor is it a book that will draw pity.  It tells the story and gives honor and dignity to the lives of the men around whom this story focuses.  <br />I work with the homeless in my hometown and have long been drawn to the lives they lead.  There is something appealing about their independence and apparent freedom.  This story reveals to what extent that is true and to what extent it is not.  It is ultimately the story that speaks.  We must draw our own conclusions.<br />I believe this taps into the deepest parts of our being.  Part of my journey in working with the homeless has been the amount of teaching they have given to me.  They are not 'homeless'; 'they' are not 'they'; 'they' are human beings just like the rest of us.  This book is one more story that teaches us about these men, yes, but more importantly about ourselves.	2001-10-02
US	50374595	R31MZ03W2MNNFI	0304704016	365765866	In Search of Muhammad (Cassell Theological Studies)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	By far one of the best...	...books regarding understanding Muhammad from a more Western (or Christian) point of view.  Mr. Bennett is honest, sympathetic and drawn to Muhammad.  The inclusion of his personal views actually adds depth to the book.  He is not an 'orientalist' nor an 'apologeticist' nor is he a 'polemicist'.  He is seeking an honest, objective view of who he was and who he is.  His is one of the more honest and overly objective books I have encountered on the subject.  He is drawn to Muhammad.<br />This can be used as both a criticism and a high compliment.  The honesty with which he approaches the subject matter radiates and leaves the reader listening not to the intentions of the author but to the actual text and what is being said.  Oftentimes books about Muhammad are so overly hostile that any objectivity flies out the window.  On the flip side books on Muhammad often border on deifying him and objectivity is thus also lost.<br />Mr. Bennett's assessment of the sources reveals what can and can not be known and shows the diversity of how Muhammad is seen and understood.  There is no monolithic Islam and there is no monolithic understanding of Muhammad.  To an extent, Muhammad is almost (emphasis: almost) as mythic as the founders of other religions.<br />Reading this book will open the reader's eyes to a more educated approach to understanding the enduring appeal of Muhammad in the hearts of believers and the impact of Muhammad still felt on the world.  The reader will come to know that what we so often hear about Muhammad is often either wrong, distorted or might even be rendered as mere folk tale (or, in today's jargon, an urban legend).	2001-09-21
US	50374595	R3E2SD460F929C	0553380648	377895949	The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Read it at least once...	If you have ever taken a spiritual journey (chemically induced or other), this book will replay the experience verbatim, although the words may look a little different. Before thinking of this as glorifying the 60s LSD culture, realize too that the downside of the 60s counterculture is presented, if not directly, through the consequences of the actors in the drama. The ultimate judgment is left up to the reader. Were Kesey and his Merry Pranksters heroes? Were they merely full of themselves, empowered by LSD? You decide. But man, what a ride! (FYI: This a review posted under my old email address from 1999)	2001-08-28
US	50374595	R39WTR09BPAXLU	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Feeling schizophrenic? You're not alone...	This book changed my life. This is one of those books that you either get or you don't. It is all about timing. When it was my time, I stopped doing everything else to read it. I was in the throes of a major mental meltdown. The world I was physically living in was not the world I was living inside of my head. The separation had become almost unbearable. <br />If you are a thinker, analyzing everything (and I mean everything) and have reached the point that you are not sure you can think any deeper and that the rest of the world around you seems far away, this is your book. If you are peeling away the onion layers of the mystery of life from a purely intellectual standpoint and you have realized that it can be infinitely sliced and you are questioning your sanity compared to those around you, this is the book for you. <br />Sure the author is relatively depressed and the tone is not overly buoyant, but this book will take you on the ride of your life. It will take you to the edge but it will not take you over the edge. You will come back and you will come back feeling relieved. You are not alone; there are millions out there who feel the same way. Or this book may save your life. It brought me back by making me realize someone had taken the journey I was about to take and made me realize that it was not the route I wanted to take. <br />Update: I work with people who are homeless, including those who are schizophrenic, chemically addicted, living with other mental illnesses and a whole host of other life issues. <br />This book stands the test of time. Mr. Pirsig was fortunate enough to have lived as long, and as well, as he did before it became too much for him. Many people never return; these are people I see daily. This book, quite honestly, helps the rest of us understand what others with similar thought patterns are living with every day. This is more than Boomer self-indulgence, as one reviewer noted: this is what people I work with wrestle with in their mindsevery day of their lives. <br />Mr. Pirsig shows us that it is possible to get out (even though the details of his journey back is somewhat skethcy). His follow-up, Lila, is also highly recommended. <br />...	2001-08-28
US	50374595	RYHIBW63QN726	1564592251	651233275	Forgery in Christianity: A Documented Record of the Foundations of the Christian Religion	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Definitely worth reading...	Books such as this one really help provide an in depth understanding of how the New Testament and the subsequent beliefs and traditions (though these are not necessarily independent) as we have them were hammered out.  This book provides a necessary corrective to the oftentime overblown 'traditional' accounts.  As such, authors like Wheless have done much leg work that the average individual would not be able to do.  As it has been said we stand on the shoulders of those who have gone before us.<br />I do recommend reading this one.  However, while I found much of it enlightening, the tone of the author is rather disheartening.  He casts his judgment at will (as, I suppose, I lawyer does) and his vitriol toward the entire religion is not masked.  There are also elements that lead me to believe he is anti-religious all the way around, attacking not only paganism and Christianity but Judaism and even Islam as well.<br />This being said, he has done an amazing job on bringing forth quotes and revealing a very human side of the founders of the Christian faith.  Yes Christianity has its flaws, as does any institution, and men have capitalized upon the power inherent in a religion such as Christianity to the abuse of its loyal followers, but he goes just a little too far and his claims are a little too grandiose about the impact his book here will have.  <br />But I do recommend it.  This is information (much like the Jesus Mysteries and other books like it) that everyone, including believers, should know.	2001-07-09
US	50374595	R1V2SFK0AK6PE7	0300065590	557147433	The Tunnel: The Underground Homeless of New York City (Architecture of Despair)	Books	5	45	56	N	N	Wow.	I stumbled across this book in my local library and could not put it down.  It is said that we are all connected, that we are each others' mirrors.  While looking at the photos in this book I realized that I was looking at a  side of myself I had never lived.  And yet it was a side I was familiar  with...<br />Part of me was drawn to it, intoxicated by it, a deep, dark  fantasy brought to light.  Here are people living out the darkest fears of  mankind, boldly and with conviction.<br />It is truly a remarkable book as  no judgments are made; the photos speak volumes and any and all judgments  are left up to the reader.	1999-12-30
US	50374595	R2MAXM4UMK2TTE	0553299611	138629087	Lila: An Inquiry Into Morals	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A good dog...	Much expectation approaching this book.  Took me several years to read it as I was afraid to be disappointed.  To read this, leave any and all expectations at the door pertaining to his previous book.  Read it  fresh.<br />While the tone is somewhat melancholy, there is a sense of spirit  bursting free (if only he'd let it!).  But the journey, the inquiries, the  cultural notes are brilliant.  As for the title of the review, it's at the  end and it sums up the book.  <br />Highly recommended.	1999-12-30
