US	50376745	R2A5IHKKDAPL8S	0879302607	244378522	Secrets from the Masters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating	Secrets from the Masters is a real treasure for guitar players, amateurs and pros alike. It collects forty interviews from the entire run of Guitar Player Magazine, and you're more than likely to find your favorite players in here, since over the years the magazine interviewed the leading guitarists from the full spectrum of styles; in this book you'll find interviews with the greats of classic rock and blues rock like Jeff Beck, Duane Allman, Jimmy Page, David Gilmour, Eric Clapton and George Harrison; more modern players like The Edge and Billy Gibbons; rock n' roll pioneers like Chuck Berry and Carl Perkins; solo virtuosos like Steve Vai, Joe Satiriani and Yngwie Malmsteen; masters of country music Chet Atkins and Les Paul; some jazz greats like Wes Montgomery, Pet Metheny and John McLaughlin; masters like Frank Zappa, Jimi Hendrix, Mark Knopfler and Jerry Garcia; and even classical guitar genius Andres Segovia. There are even a few surprising, less widely appreciated masters like acoustic master Michael Hedges; funk/jazz/rocker Vernon Reid of Living Color; and The Police's Andy Summers, a fantastic and little appreciated fusion musician by his own right. Only a few major names are missing, notable ones including Brian May, Prince and Ritchie Blackmore. <br /> <br />Each of these master musicians offers here insight into his music, into his style, technique, and his very approach to the guitar, his playing methods, his compositions and his take on the guitar as an instrument and as a concept, and often into his personality and personal history as well. It's a fascinating read for any guitar player (especially those in the rock/blues vein) as well as for any music lover, though they may not get as much from it as those with a professional interest, who's bound to get some interesting notions and ideas, as well as lots of useful practical advice. That makes it both a great read and an immense well of knowledge for players. Secrets from the Masters is a perfect giftbook for guitar players and guitar aficionados, an unsurpassable book that will earn an honorary place on your bookshelf. Guitar players - Secrets from the Masters is not to be missed.	2005-10-10
US	50376745	R24P68PRQTLQYE	0785110739	92432267	Marvel 1602	Books	5	3	3	N	N	What if... Neil Gaiman wrote a Marvel story?	It wouldn't be exactly true to say that I had low expectations from 1602; I have long ago learned to expect nothing less than greatness from the Dream King, Mr. Gaiman. Yet somehow I anticipated some disappointment from 1602. I, like many fans, have long anticipated Gaiman's return to the graphic medium that first made him stand out as a one-of-a-kind creator (with the Sandman saga), a return that we didn't quite get with the beautiful but whimsical Harlequin Valentine; but a story set in the Marvel Universe was not quite what I had in mind. The idea of transporting the familiar superhero characters forwards or backwards in time was done several times before, by both Marvel and DC Comics, and it was hard to see exactly what Mr. Gaiman can contribute, other than his historical knowledge and a lot of in-jokes for the fans of the genre. <br /> <br />And of course, there's a lot of both. Once again I was amazed by Mr. Gaiman's seemingly endless well of knowledge, that here we see covers both 17th century history (to a remarkable extent) as well as curiosities and obscure characters and facts from the Marvel Universe that range all the way back to the 50's. Neil, of course, does a seamless job of transporting all our favorite Marvel characters, including Nick Fury, Dr. Strange, Fantastic Four and X-Men (the original five X-Men, mind you - no Wolverine or Rogue here) to the 17th century, with many other characters, like Spider-Man and The Hulk, playing minor roles that only Marvel fans will pick up, and with lots of in-jokes it's an exceptional treat for Marvel fans; the transportation is also made in a clever and intelligent way that will appeal to more picky readers as well, and will not disappoint Mr. Gaiman's fans. <br /> <br />Above all, 1602 is a fantastic story, intelligent, entertaining, thrilling, original and creative; and the Marvel Universe certainly hasn't been this fresh captivating in quite some time. And even if it doesn't rank with Gaiman's best work in the comics medium - and after all, material like The Sandman, Black Orchid and Mr. Punch is hard to beat - it still bears his unmistakable mark of quality, his wit and his subtlety, and is far better than any average publication in the genre. The artwork, too, is supreme - with drawings done by none other than Andy Kubert, son of comic-book pioneer Joe Kubert, who does not fall short of his father's talent. I'm generally not in favor of most digital coloring, but in 1602 the coloring is tender and tasteful, and does nothing to distract from the excellent drawings. 1602 is all around a fantastic graphic novel and a must read for both fans of Marvel and of Neil Gaiman.	2005-10-07
US	50376745	ROHN8EANVRKBS	1593072996	171716005	Sin City Volume 7: Hell and Back (3rd Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Give 'em Hell, Boy!	The latest addition to Frank Miller's acclaimed comics-noir series, Hell and Back is not quite up to the standards of the classic early Sin City stories. It's in pretty much the same vein, but is a bit too long, the story not quite in focus; the lead character, Wallace, is a violent anti-hero like all of Miller's protagonists, but isn't quite as compelling as classic characters like Marv, Dwight and Hartigan, and the villains and the Damsel in Distress are also somewhat anemic, when compared to characters from the first four Sin City books. The dark sense of humor is also sparse compared to the classic stories, and all that makes Hell and Back a bit tiring. All of that, though, doesn't make it any less entertaining, dazzling and fresh; Miller writes and draws an action scene (as well as a sex scene, for that matter) with more energy and strength than any other artist in the field, and Hell and Back is no exception in that sense. He turns sex and violence into poetry, and his dark vision of corruption, death and despair is sickening and irresistibly beautiful at once. <br /> <br />And even if the story isn't quite up there with Miller's best, his artwork never ceases to innovate and amaze, and like with every one of the previous Sin City novels, Hell and Back breaks new ground and stands out clearly from everything done in the medium before. Miller's style is all his own and is immediately recognizable, and yet he is never completely satisfied and continually challenges himself in order to improve himself, which is the mark of a great artist. Each and every frame and each and every page spread in Hell and Back is a masterpiece by its own right, and you can easily sit for hours and gawk at Miller's amazing work without even reading the story. The hallucination scene - the only scene in the Sin City series to be in full color - is by itself worth the entire book, as it is one of Miller's most astounding and imaginative creations. <br /> <br />The Sin City novels are best read at chronological order (though because of the many protagonists, it's not necessary; for instance, That Yellow Bastard (vol. 4) can be read before vol. 2 and 3), and if you read and enjoyed the first six, then by all means, go on and grab Hell and Back. It's not Miller's best, but it's better than almost anything else being made in the medium today, and it's a book well worth having on your coffee-table for people to glimpse at and gasp. Now it's just a matter of sitting back and guessing who will play Wallace in Sin City 3.	2005-08-18
US	50376745	R3AUG12T19K5B3	0440107601	138277602	The Boys from Brazil	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An effective, if dated, thriller	The Boys from Brazil is a speedy, smooth thriller for two or three lengthy and compulsive reading sessions. Despite shallow character development and several major plot-holes - in a plot that's somewhat contrived and ludicrous to begin with - the whole thing holds together quite well and makes for an effective read that draws the reader in quite easily and makes it easy to miss its flaws. It's clearly genre literature, the kind that fails to transcend literary genre or time; but it's good enough as to appeal not only to avid fans of that genre, and though it's hardly serious fiction - or serious science fiction, for that matter; the science of the novel is highly far-fetched and contrived - and many will scoff at it, it's a thriller that does its job well and is hard to ignore. It won't last in your mind more than a day, but during the reading time itself it's haunting. <br />  <br />As major Nazi conspiracies go, The Boys from Brazil isn't quite as convincingly scary as William Goldman's brilliant Marathon Man, neither novel nor film. Both characters, Nazi and Jew, are ultimately stereotypical caricatures - though Levin did his best to give Dr. Mengele a couple of redeeming human moments, these come off as sarcastic and laughable rather then authentically human. And the message of the novel, though it's certainly there, and comes over clearly - perhaps a bit too clearly - feels forced upon the reader, time and time again over the two hundred pages. <br /> <br />And yet, The Boys from Brazil is entirely entertaining, frighteningly involving, and continually thrilling, and even though at times you might consciously laugh at the nave, simplistic, dated ideas and messages, you'll have a tough time putting it down. And when all's said and done, that's just what it should do. It's certainly not a major classic, and far from essential, but it's still a bloody good read that, in it's own way, still works.	2005-08-06
US	50376745	R1RM3XHJA73C8L	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent satire from Terry Pratchett	Monstrous Regiment is not as funny as Discworld novels mostly are; in fact, it's the best work Terry Pratchett had conjured in quite some time, possibly second to The Truth. It's not the laugh-a-minute, surreal fantasy-comedy that Terry had become famous for; it's actually much more satire than parody, and the humor is therefore much more subtle and less, shall we say, 'jokey'. Terry gives us very little of the familiar Discworld faces or places; many fans have found that to be a downside, as well. In fact, those were the very reasons I found 'Monstrous Regiment' so good. I feel that, despite all my love for them, the old, old Discworld characters - Sam Vimes, Carrot, Rincewind, Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, Susan and the rest - have become quite repetitive over the last few years, especially Vimes who been quite overplayed recently. In 'Monstrous Regiment', he plays a minor role in which he excels. Death, too, is given a very brief cameo, and William De Worde and Otto (from 'The Truth') also grant a couple of cameos (although William is a character that had not yet fulfilled his potential, at least not as a supporting actor). <br /> <br />Instead, we have a remarkably large cast of new characters, and the strangest part of it is - most of them are sane. The lead characters in 'Monstrous Regiment' are exquisitely 'normal' in Discworld standards, and though at first it seems like the cast includes 'a troll, a vampire, and Igor and A FEW OTHER GUYS' they all turn out to be very individual and well-rounded characters. Terry leans on character development here more than he ever did before, and lo! - there are hardly any physical descriptions of the characters, and yet we get to know each one individually through their actions, their behaviors, personalities, motives and past. In fact, the troll and the Igor (there was one of those in every Discworld novel for some time now) are surprisingly normal too, though they're probably the weakest characters and are there mostlyfor a few gags and some comic relief. The vampire is actually one of the most fascinating characters in the novel, yet he doesn't even speak with a funny accent! Altogether, 'Monstrous Regiment' is not the story of one level-headed, sane character surrounded by madmen, like so many of Terry's novels; it's the story of entirely sane people in a mad world. As Vimes himself wonderfully puts it, a country can be insane even though all the people in it are completely sane and normal. <br /> <br />And that's the gist of it really. This little sentence rings very much true in the context of every war we have in the world. It's easy to say that 'Monstrous Regiment' is a satire about Islam and some parts of it may be, but it's true for every war there ever was and it's the kind of book people should take notice of. And that's why, even though - BECAUSE it's not filled with gags and wordplay, but with truly deep and observant satire. And if you think Terry and depth don't go together, read back to 'Small Gods', probably the best book in the whole series, and the one most easily comparable to 'Monstrous Regiment'. Maybe the fact that I served in the army myself helped a bit with some of the humor (I had a desk job actually, but I did get to meet my share of Sarges and Ruperts and Terry captures them perfectly) but I do think that this book is relevant to any place and any times. It takes a bit more thinking than your usual Discworld novel, but is well worth it.	2005-06-16
US	50376745	RDR4RIPU25O8S	1563899671	685031307	Batman: Year Two - Fear the Reaper (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A perfectly decent Batman adventure	The main problem with 'Batman: Year Two', it was clear to me from the start, is its title. Once a book is defined as a sequel, it demands a comparison to the original, and if anything is to be compared to 'Batman: Year One', there's no chance it won't disappoint. <br /> <br />The fact of the matter is, other than the events depicted being more or less a chronological follower, 'Fear The Reaper' has absolutely nothing to do with Frank Miller's masterpiece. Quite frankly, there's no reason it should be expected to. The 'artistic revolution' DC Comics were having during the late 80s has become so famous, that it's easy to forget that most comics released by mainstream publishers at the time was not in the level of Frank Miller, Alan Moore or Grant Morrison; they were extremely exceptional individuals within the field at the time. <br /> <br />It's important to remember that 'Year Two', unlike classics like 'The Dark Knight Returns', 'Year One', 'The Killing Joke' and even Barr's own 'Son of the Demon', was released not as an individual publication but as part of the regular monthly run of 'Detective Comics'. Bear in mind that the monthly publications were much more limited than a one-time release; first and foremost, those publications were still under the constraints of the Comic Book Code, gradually losing its grip though it was. Compare 'Year Two' to 'Son of the Demon', written by the same writer in the very same year; it's easy to see how much more restrained he had to be for 'Year Two'. <br /> <br />That's not the only clear difference you can find in comparing the two: with no computers, the art in the monthly issues in that time couldn't have possibly looked as good as a graphic novel like 'Son of the Demon', which was months at work. Making that comparison would be like comparing 'The Killing Joke' to its chronological follow-up, 'A Death in the Family'. Instead, 'Year Two' should be compared to monthly Batman comics published in the same period of time, by writers like Danny O'Neil and Jim Starlin. In that light, you can get a whole different perspective on it. <br /> <br />This means, if you're only looking for truly deep quality comics, you won't find it here; in fact, you won't find it in any monthly publication by DC Comics and Marvel up to the early 90s, and even then it's rare. 'Year One' is a classic and a masterpiece; 'Year Two' is far from it. If, however, you're a fan of the superhero genre by its own right, and of Batman in particular, 'Year Two' is well worth picking up. It's a classic Batman adventure, with good writing, some excellent action scenes, and well-written villains, and it also fills some important holes in the Batman history, which makes it important for anyone truly interested in the Dark Knight (the conclusion for the Joe Chill story suggests a somewhat different outcome then the one given in Batman #47 - 'The Origin of the Batman' - but it's close enough in principle). For the true comics buff, it might also be interesting to see early samples of artwork by Todd McFarlane - creator of Spawn and one of the originators of Image Comics - some years before he achieved fame and fortune. <br /> <br />'Year Two', as said before, is certainly not an essential on any shelf, but it's a worthy addition to any respectable collection of Batman comics, and a fun bit of action and adventure. Check it out.	2005-06-07
US	50376745	R2084YVQVXJAUW	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Horrorshow!	It may well be true that Stanley Kubrick's 'A Clockwork Orange' is one of the rare few occasions of a film being more - or at the very least as powerful and effective as the novel on which it was based (the only other such case I can think of being 'The Shining', also by Mr. Kubrick). That film is, without a doubt, one of the great masterpieces in cinema history and is mandatory viewing. That doesn't mean Burgess's novel is not praiseworthy. In fact, it's a fantastic piece of literature that, though it was overshadowed by its fantastic cinematic adaptation, is comparable to Orwell's 1984 in quality as well as in themes and ideas, and if you liked the film then the novel is well worth your time as well. <br /> <br />The comparison to 1984 comes quite naturally because they both run along the same veins of futuristic thinking, and both deal with similar subjects of free will, individual freedom, violence and alienation in a technologically advanced society - though from entirely different points of view. Burgess chose - as you well know if you've seen the film - the point of view of Alex, a teenage delinquent and a violent criminal, in a futuristic New York where teenage gangs rule the night and have their own way with innocent, law-abiding citizens. We see this world through Alex's eyes, and so receive a very disturbing view of this reality; Alex sees the violence and death in a humorous, indifferent way, and so the novel is often hilarious and constantly shocking. A reviewer noted that nowadays, the idea of a fifteen year old committing murder may not be as shocking and unthinkable as it was forty years ago, and that may be true; but the elegant and lightly style in which the gruesome murders and rapes are described by Alex makes the novel shocking and compelling still, and the moral and philosophical questions it raises about free will - essentially, is good truly good only when it's chosen? - or, is good behavior that isn't chosen by one's own free will better than bad behavior that is? - still fascinate. Burgess suggests no easy answers - but he raises some damn interesting questions, that may become more and more relevant. <br /> <br />The linguistic aspect of the book is also a fascinating one. Burgess came up with a complete and structured slang to be used by the teenagers of his hypothetic future, composed mainly of words derived from Russian. Since the Humble Narrator himself speaks in that hybrid language even as he directs his words at the readers, it makes for both a challenging and a fascinating read. <br /> <br />The 21st and last chapter of A Clockwork Orange is an anomaly that almost every reviewer here referred to, and so shall I. The chapter was omitted from Kubrick's otherwise very faithful adaptation, as it was from the original American publication of the novel (the version which I first read). Quite frankly, I can see perfectly well why Burgess and Kubrick chose to drop it, because it's mostly anti-climatic and does not fit in well with the book's ideas, though it fits in very well with the structure of the novel and answers some questions left by the original twenty chapters (most of all, whatever happened to old Pete?). It's interesting enough to read though - even though I still consider it an afterthought and a separate section from the actual novel - it sheds a very different light in regard to Burgess's views on the matters discussed in the novel, and raises some very different questions than the original ending. Do try to find the version that includes this chapter, but read the first twenty chapters first and this one separately, and decide for yourself.	2005-03-10
US	50376745	R4LIK0ZITDF1X	0765341611	554191539	Three Men in a Boat: To Say Nothing of the Dog (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Still Relevant	One of the truly classic satirical novels of all time, Jerome K. Jerome's tale of three men's (to say nothing of the dog!) boat trip may take place in 19th Century England, but his hilarious, sarcastic, amazingly precise insights into the human nature make it as relevant in any time and any place (scratching some of the jokes about the technicalities of boating itself). Jerome saw into the absurdities and ironies of life, and put them to paper with wit and venom. Three Men in a Boat is one of the earliest signs of modern English humor, and Jerome's influence is everywhere in the works of satirical authors from P.G. Wodehouse to Douglas Adams and Terry Pratchett, not to mention English comedians like Monty Python and Lenny Henry. Essential reading, a real classic.	2005-02-04
US	50376745	RE74K8DEEZU3A	1401200931	852569490	Sandman Presents, The: The Furies	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Decent story, fantastic artwork	The guys over at Vertigo just can't seem to stop yanking at the Sandman money machine, constantly releasing merchandise and spin-offs ever since the series ended six years ago. I find myself feeling very ambivalent about this spur of new comics based on the original series; on one hand, it saddens and sometimes disgusts me to see Neil Gaiman's original and brilliant vision of the original saga being handed out and torn to pieces by dozens of other writers, rarely successfully. On the other hand, it's nice to see a series as intelligent and sophisticated as the Sandman reach the kind of acclaim usually saved for commercial crap. For good or for ill, like any truly avid Sandman fan, I still feel obliged to read every one that hits the stands.<br /><br />Of the lot of them, the authors mingling with Neil's genius, Mike Carey is probably the best, and without doubt the one who best imitates the master's writing. His Lucifer, though nowhere near real Gaiman writing, was probably the best of the series occurring in the Sandman's universe but not written by Neil; likewise, his graphic novel `The Furies', looks and feels more like Sandman than any other imitation. If you're a major Sandman fan - which means you have read all ten Sandman TPBs, as well as The Dream Hunters and Death: The High Cost Of Living, and would like some more, by all means, The Furies is well worth the purchase. The story starts where `The Kindly Ones' ended (incidentally, both titles refer to the same Greek mythological beings) and follows the character of Lyta Hall - former super-heroine, half-fury and mother of the second Lord Shaper. The book ties very few of the loose ends left by The Kindly Ones, and is far from being essential reading; still, fans of Gaiman's writing will most likely enjoy the surrealist story, the many references to characters and occurrences from the original saga and the post-modern, Gaiman-ish take on mythology and theology<br /><br />And if for nothing else, The Furies is well worth it for the artwork. John Bolton's (Books Of Magic, Harlequin Valentine, Batman: Man Bat) photorealistic artwork is stunning beyond words, and he remains one of the greatest artists in the field. His artwork is not as overtly realistic as that of Alex Ross, straining to paint every drop of water, every piece of skin and every ray of light to photo-perfection, but it's much warmer and more sensitive. His artwork is suited less for the epic melodrama in which Ross excels, and more for human stories. Above all, not one artist in comics can create, in one image, a person so real, so alive and breathing, as Bolton. His characters are full, complete human beings, and are beautiful, not in the shining heroism of the super-heroes but in the true beauty of a real person. That is one talent that stands out above everything else and makes any work of his, regardless the story, a pleasure.is well worth it for the artwork. John Bolton's (Books Of Magic, Harlequin Valentine, Batman: Man Bat) photorealistic artwork is stunning beyond words, and he remains one of the greatest artists in the field. His artwork is not as overtly realistic as that of Alex Ross, straining to paint every drop of water, every piece of skin and every ray of light to photo-perfection, but it's much warmer and more sensitive. His artwork is suited less for the epic melodrama in which Ross excels, and more for human stories. Above all, not one artist in comics can create, in one image, a person so real, so alive and breathing, as Bolton. His characters are full, complete human beings, and are beautiful, not in the shining heroism of the super-heroes but in the true beauty of a real person. That is one talent that stands out above everything else and makes any work of his, regardless the story, a pleasure.	2004-08-20
US	50376745	R327T7CE08FN5V	0140321977	41987771	Clash of the Princes: the Warlock's Way (Fighting Fantasy)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great!... But where's the other one?	If you've played any of the Fighting Fantasy books before, I'll have you know that Clash of the Princes is one of the best in the series, and it surprises me that it was so difficult to find. It's not for beginners, mind you; if you're interested in the format I'd recommend you'd start at the beginning of the series with `Warlock of Firetop Mountain' or `Citadel of Chaos'. Clash of the Princes is one of the cleverer and more sophisticated in the series. Somebody, though, seems to have missed the point - that this is a two-book game! Only one, The Warlock's way, is to be found on Amazon. The Warrior's Way is nowhere to be seen (though the two of them can be obtained through the Fighting Fantasy homepage, FightingFantasy.com. Though it can certainly be played by itself as a single player game, what makes Clash of the Princes unique and exciting is that it can be played by two players at the same time - the book uses a very clever system that keeps the two players in unison. Though I doubt many children nowadays would have the patience and the imagination to play these books (why should they, when computer gaming is so sophisticated?) this two-part game is very fun and unique, and is worth owning - if you can find the other part!	2004-07-13
US	50376745	R1QUW3EYEJFFL9	0930289668	594377964	1: Greatest Batman Stories Ever Told (DC Comics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Invaluable	This fascinating collection of Batman stories published between 1939 and 1983 is an invaluable goldmine for anyone who is interested in Batman or in the history of comics. There are many books detailing and explaining the history of comics, but it's much more rewarding to actually see it happening, and this book gives you a rare chance to read some classic comics which are by now practically unobtainable and frighteningly valuable. The collection is fascinating both in terms of Batman's history and comics history. On the one hand, it presents some of the most important stories in the development of the character throughout the years - stories like `The Origin of Batman' from 1948, which finally revealed Batman's story in its final version as well as the identity of his parents' killer; `Dr. Hugo Strange and the Mutant Monsters', from the very first issue of Batman, the story that introduced the villain Dr. Strange; and `The First Batman', a classic and often referenced story in which a lot is revealed about Batman's father. But at the same time, you get a rare and precious opportunity to view stories and artwork by some of the finest comic book artists to walk the face of the earth, and explore the development of the medium from the 40s to the 80s. Classic artwork by the great man himself, Bob Kane, is a real treat; stories by some of the great writers like Gardner Fox and Bill Finger; through greats like Dick Sprang, Carmine Infantino, Charles Paris, and up to the great Denny O'Neil, and Neal Adams, Dick Giordano and Archie Goodwin, among others. The later stories show brilliantly how both the art and writing developed to create more original and inventive stories - like `The Autobiography of Bruce Wayne', which suggests a possible future for Batman; `To Kill A Legend', one of the classic Elseworlds tales; and `Death Strikes at Midnight and Three', in which Denny O'Neal and W. M. Rogers take the format to its ends.<br />Since I'm a huge Batman and DC fan, and alsoa creator of comics and very much interested in the artwork and format of comics, this book was amazingly valuable to me. I recommended it for anyone who is interested in this great and unappreciated medium, and for anyone who wants to learn something about the Caped Crusader.	2004-05-29
US	50376745	R1M6MDQY8UH7KW	156389226X	479375672	3: Sandman, The: Dream Country - Book III	Books	5	6	6	N	N	More Stories from the Realms Beyond	In between the glorious and groundbreaking story-arcs of `Doll's House' and `Season of Mists', Mr. Gaiman took some time off with four individual one-issue long stories in the Sandman universe; these are collected in `Dream Country'. Technically, it can probably be considered the least important of Sandman collections, and should take second priority to volumes 1, 2, 4 and 5. Still, `Dream Country' is Gaiman at his best, and each of these stories is important and well worth the purchase. If you're a Gaiman fan, it's an essential part of your library.<br />The stories in `Dream Country' are important in the development of the series because the Sandman himself, Morpheus, Lord of Dreams, plays in them only a background role. That was the foundation for one of the elements that made the series great - that it's not just the story of one hero; the hero can be himself, an active character, but just as often he is simply the essence of something bigger. That is precisely the role Morpheus plays in `Calliope' and `Dream of a Thousand Cats', both with splendid dark artwork by Kelley Jones. `Calliope' is a splendid philosophical tale of urban mythology that shows Gaiman's unique and original attitude towards storytelling and inspiration.<br />`Dream of a Thousand Cats' Is my favorite in this collection and probably the most underrated story in the Sandman catalogue; though `A Midsummer Night's Dream' is the celebrated story that made history by being the first `comic book' to win the World Fantasy Award (for best short story of the year), I personally find `Dream of a Thousand Cats' to be superior by far. Though it tells a very small tale, and one that is without significance in the greater continuity of the Sandman saga, it's gorgeously written and has a great atmosphere about it. It also gets across Neil's ideas about the importance of dreams and stories better than any of the others. The artwork, to, is brilliant.<br />`Facade', finally, is probably the weakest story in the collection. It's important, if nothing else, for being the first story in the Sandman series in which Morpheus does not appear at all, even as a guest. Instead, it features his older sister, Death - one of the Endless and one of the most lovable characters in Gaiman's universe, as well as does a great job in resurrecting a forgotten character from DC's history, Element Girl; Neil does as amazingly in rasterizing her as he did with other old comics characters like Lyta Hall AKA The Fury, or the absurd Sandman character from the 60s.<br />Last but not least, there's a delicious bonus for those who buy `Dream Country' - the complete, original script to `Calliope'. It's rare indeed for a writer to reveal to his readers his work in progress, and this script is fascinating to both fans of Gaiman and aspiring writers of graphic literature, as it gives us a precious glimpse into Neil's precise and masterful scriptwriting process. All this and more reasons for buying `Dream Country', especially if you're hoping for a complete Sandman collection. It's one of the best `comic books' you can find.	2004-04-24
US	50376745	R1JUV782K9S4OQ	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	5	547	578	N	N	Here your learning begins	This review is directed mainly at those of you who are not widely experienced with modern (one can hardly use the word `adult' without erotica coming to mind) comics, because I do not know many comics aficionados who are not familiar with the Sandman saga - the Citizen Kane of comics, or the Sgt. Pepper, or the War and Peace - and have not read, at the very least, this first installment in the series.<br />So - you haven't read comics in a long time, have you? Sure, you read it when you were a kid, like everyone else, but then you outgrew them. You went on to read real books with no pictures. But suddenly a couple of people tell you that there have been some interesting things going on in comics in the last twenty years, and you should check it out. You decide to give the ol' funnybooks a chance.<br />In that case, this book right here is one of the half-dozen masterworks you should start with to get a general idea of what comics are capable of, at least in the English speaking regions of the world (there are some fascinating things going on in Japan and France that I won't even begin to discuss). The Sandman, the ENTIRE Sandman saga, altogether ten books long - collected from magazine-form comics that were published regularly throughout most of the 90s - is one of the truly glorious, shining, perfect creations of, I'll say it, adult comics. That Preludes &amp; Nocturnes, the first story-arch in the series, is the only one that can stand rightly by its own right, other than being a convenience for new readers which may make it easier for them to deal with the size of this saga, is a sure sign of the wisdom of the creator, the brilliant Mr. Neil Gaiman. While completely revolutionizing what people though about comics, Neil started doing so in small doses to make it easier to swallow for audiences and editors alike. Thus, he started here with a story that is a classic folk tale, of a dethroned monarch who goes through a series of quests and challenges in order to earnback his rightful place in power. More help is given by cameo appearances of old and popular characters from the DC Comics universe - such as the Martian Manhunter, Green Lantern, the Scarecrow and John Constantine. Such appearances will become quite rare as the series continues, and the story becomes, rather than a folk tale, a mythology as grim as any Greek tragedy - which, doubtlessly, was in the author's mind from the very beginning. However, though the storyline of Preludes &amp; Nocturnes is schematic and the drawings are often bland, Gaiman's already famous storytelling skills are fully developed, and the books is one of the most fantastic stories he had penned.<br />The hero of the series is, simply, Dream. His identity is a rather philosophical matter, as he is not so much a god of dream, but rather, the embodiment of the very concept of dream itself. At the beginning of the story, Dream is summoned by a human mystic, and caged. Seventy years later, when he escapes from his prison, he finds his kingdom in ruins, and must return to himself the symbolic garments of his reign to rebuild it. Along the way we have the pleasure to meet some of the most fantastic and fascinating characters in any literary creation, and also some characters who, small though their part may be now, will be crucial in the complete creation of the saga, such as Lucifer Morningstar, Cain and Abel, and the three Furies (also known as the Graces, the Fates, or the Kindly Ones). Though much more fascinating as part of the whole, Preludes &amp; Nocturnes by itself is a perfect piece of fantastic storytelling.<br />However, it is the final magazine issue in this collection, titled `The Sound Of Her Wings', that gives it more worth than the rest of it put together. Sam Keith's surreal, deformed image of Dream and dark, heavy, brooding lines move over to make place for Mike Dringenberg's realistic backgrounds, light-hearted lines and recognizable human faces. Dream's flowing black robes makeway for a t-shirt and a black jacket; the dark and towering Sandman is given a whole new perspective. He now seems like a depressed, bored teenager, sulking in the park and feeding the pigeons. He is then granted a visit by none other than his sister - Death, which is the single most brilliant creation in Gaiman's universe. Death is a perky, cheerful, beautiful, wise, mature goth-girl who confronts Dream and show to him his own pettiness. Completely without any action or suspense, it is this story that paved the way for the revolution that the Sandman series began. And this story alone remains one of the handful true perfect masterpieces of the medium. It is this story alone that makes this book a milestone in modern comics - and literature - and essential reading for everyone interested in the medium.<br />And, oh, I said half dozen masterworks, right? So, to complete the list, let's say: Alan Moore's `Watchmen', Art Spiegelman's `Maus', Scott McCloud's `Understanding Comics', Frank Miller's `The Dark Knight Returns' and Kurt Busiek's `Marvels'. Or, to make it a top ten, let's add Peter Kuper's `The System', Garth Ennis's `Preacher', Grant Morrison's `Arkham Asylum', and anything by Robert Crumb. Enjoy!	2004-03-15
US	50376745	R2YPP1B3FLANF4	156389663X	130609660	Kurt Busiek's Astro City: The Tarnished Angel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great super-hero story	Yet another triumph by the master of super-hero comics, the wonderful Mr. Kurt Busiek. While greats like Alan Moore and Frank Miller took the super-hero to disturbing new places and made them gritty and eerie, Busiek returned to the way super-heroes once were, and to what made them so inspiring and fascinating; on Tarnished Angel, though, he tackles the issue from the opposite direction, and takes the villain's side. The Steeljack character is one of the most interesting and complex characters in the Astro City universe, and his story is one of Busiek's greatest. Tarnished Angel takes on the character of a classic villain, and tells the tale from his point of view, building him into a character that is entirely human and entirely full. On the other hand we have the actual villain of the story, the Conquistador, and the comparison between his story and that of Steeljack makes for an interesting and provoking pairing.<br />Also interesting is the story `The Voice of the turtle', the tale of the British supervillain The Mock Turtle, which is both comic relief and an interesting look at the story from a different angle. One reviewer complained the British characters were too prototypical and not half as original as the Astro City heroes and villains, but I don't see that as a problem; these characters, other than being quite funny, give the reader the feeling that he's somewhere else. As Kurt explains in the intro, throughout the series, the further one travels from Astro City, the more accustomed to their location the characters get. As usual, special note should be given to Alex Ross's beautiful cover gallery (though I liked the ones in `Family Portrait' better), as well as his fascinating pages of sketches and explanations about the various characters.<br />Nobody can write a super-hero story like Kurt, and Tarnished Angel is, over all, one of the best super-hero stories you'll find. If you're a fan of the genre, consider it well worth your money.	2004-02-20
US	50376745	R1V3D65JFETJLZ	038097827X	256102865	The Wolves in the Walls	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another masterpiece from Gaiman & McKean	The most brilliant artistic team the world of comics and illustrated literature in the world strikes again. Mind you, The Wolves in the Walls is, while filled with Neil's wonderful and bizarre imagination and Dave's distorted and surreal characters, and while the plot is absolutely nightmarish, isn't as disturbing as their previous collaboration, Coraline, or even The Day I Swapped My Dad For Two Goldfish. Instead, The Wolves in the Walls is a classic, imaginative and intelligent children's tale, beautifully written and gorgeously visualized. Like the best of children's authors, Neil makes every single word count, his writing funny and nonsensical and yet incredibly sharp and precise, written in the finest tradition of the genre. Dave is at his astonishing best, combining hyperrealism with surreal images, and at times colleges and photographs. Essential for fans of Gaiman and McKean, a great book for your kids, great book for adults, a masterpiece that belongs in every home.	2003-10-30
US	50376745	R21K0VLGU68LHY	1840231068	757827044	Neil Gaimans Midnight Days	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Some great rarities from the master of storytelling	he perfect companion to Smoke & Mirrors, Neil Gaiman's Midnight Days collects some short stories written in comics form for DC's Vertigo line, ones that were not part of the masterpiece Sandman series that Vertigo ran between 1988 and 1996. The stories in this collection are unique, because they show Neil writing at a very early stage, and for DC characters that aren't his own - which is rare for him. For Gaiman fans, needless to say, the book is essential, even if some of the stories are weaker, and I also recommend it for fans of John Constantine, because it includes one of the finest Hellblazer stories ever written.<br />In the first part, we see Neil struggling with the classic character that originated the Vertigo line - Alan Moore's revamped Swamp Thing - in three short stories from early stages of his career. Jack In The Green is apparently the second comics story Neil had ever written, and it remained a pictureless script until it was drawn especially for this collection. It's unique because it sees a reunion of the original Swamp Thing artistic team, who worked with Moore on the now classic first issues - Stephen Bissette, John Totleben and Tatjana Wood. Neil's writing is clearly in very early stages of its development, and the story is good, if nothing else, as a curiosity for loyal Gaiman fans. The other two stories, which were released as Swamp Thing Annual #5 in 1989, don't actually feature the Swamp Thing himself: Brothers is a story that could have just as easily been made into a Sandman issue, though it has quite a lot in common with the Prez story (I'm not quite sure what the story's name was or which Sandman volume it was on). It's a pretty good story, but not quite worthy of Neil's genius. The third, very short story, titled Shaggy God Stories, is easily the best in the bunch, and it deals with the Swamp Thing's great nemesis, Jason Woodrue AKA the Floronic Man. It's a beautiful story that shows Neil at his best.<br />The entire thing is well worth buying for the Hellblazer story - Hold Me - alone. It was originally published as Hellblazer #27 in 1995, several months before Garth Ennis took over the series and turned it upside down, and is now a rare and precious collectors' item for fans of Gaiman and/or Hellblazer. This beautiful, touching, chilling ghost story was drawn by none other than the great Dave McKean, who also worked with Neil on classics like Black Orchid, Mr. Punch, Coraline, The Day I Swapped My Dad For Two Goldfish and Violent Cases. Dave's artwork is expressive and surreal and his portrayal of both the Ghost and John Constantine are incredible. This is, without doubt, one of the best Hellblazer stories ever written - in direct competition with the classics of the early Ennis period, Dangerous Habits and Fear & Loathing - and arguably one of Neil's finest writings.<br />The last story in this volume is the longest by far - too long by half. It's a rather predictable collaboration between Neil and Matt Wagner, which allows for the inevitable crossover between Neil's Sandman - Morpheus of the Endless - and Matt's Sandman, Man of Mystery Wesley Dodds (reincarnation of the DC hero from the 40s). More than that though it's a story about Dodds - please remember that Morpheus is well locked in a glass prison during the time of Dodds's stories (as you'd remember if you've read the first Sandman volume, Preludes & Nocturnes. The story does involve Morpheus, though to a lesser extent, and the events occurring in Preludes & Nocturnes). The story does have its flashes of genius though it's exceedingly and unjustifiably long, but it's salvaged by brilliant artwork by Teddy Kristiansen.<br />By the way, a story which is missing from this collection is the brilliant short A Black & White World, the Batman story which was published on Batman: Black & White. If you're a Gaiman completist, I recommend trying that one too.	2003-10-27
US	50376745	R3N1SYRLN2D42G	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Believe the hype	Doubtlessly one of the most talked about comic book storylines of the past twenty years, its reputation is well founded. While material that was as hyped as The Dark Knight Returns is often ultimately disappointing, or seems outdated decades later, every time one reads The Dark Knight Returns he'd be more convinced that this is indeed a perfect piece of modern literature; and comics, American comics most of all, very rarely got this good. The Dark Knight Returns is one of a handful of graphic novels (e.g. Watchmen, The Sandman and Marvels) that achieve the status of genuine and timeless classics.<br />In the time of its release in the early 80s, The Dark Knight Returns was revolutionary, in every aspect. Frank Miller, already an acclaimed artist for his work on the early issues of Wolverine, already proved himself as a writer in 1984's brilliant and groundbreaking mini-series Ronin, but The Dark Knight Returns in 1986 was his break into the world of mainstream comics, and remains his most important achievement. But while his work on the series was within the world of super-hero comics, and within the financial safety of publishing under the DC Comics banner, Miller took mainstream comics to disturbing new places and super-heroes were never looked at the same way again. Taking inspiration from the groundbreaking work of the Dennis O'neil / Neil Addams team who revolutionized super-hero comics in the late 70s, and from his own former partner Chris Claremont, Miller made super-hero comics darker, more reflective and more mature than was ever made before. For that he took darkest character in the DC Universe, the Caped Crusader himself, and took him 20 years into the future, well into retirement. The new Batman is well into his 50s, sad and tired, and a much rougher kind of hero than he was before. Miller's very modern look on the Dark Knight was disturbing and discomforting to say the least; Dark Knight Returns is not an adventure story, it's a moral examination of hischaracter and the problematic nature of his actions. Never before was Batman judged so harshly by his own author, and it's difficult for the reader to accept it - since, while Batman's actions are here presented as problematic to say the least, if not criminal, but he is also more human and more recognizable than we'd ever seen him before.<br />But it's not just the view of Batman's character that makes Dark Knight Returns so disturbing - it's the view of the world. Miller's future is dark and bleak, and eerily realistic. He goes to great lengths to create a realistic and convincing world, right down to creating a new slang for the new young generation. Through countless minor characters and little stories, each one rounded and well-constructed by its own right, Frank Miller creates a Gotham City we can know, a Gotham we can relate to. It's a city living in fear, a city that's in the grip of a merciless gang more ruthless and vicious than the criminals Batman faced in his prime. In Bruce Wayne's own words, it's a city that's `given up hope, like the whole world seems to have'. And as the city lies in the shadow of the fear of the Mutants gang, so the world lives in the shadow on nuclear holocaust. It is in the middle of this reality that a real hero is proven. And despite all the doubt and all the misgivings, the Batman presented here is more heroic than he ever was. It takes one kind of hero to fight madmen on a daily basis and thwart their diabolical schemes; it takes quite a different one to face himself and the world and not give up.<br />Batman isn't the only character who is given fantastic care on The Dark Knight Returns. Commissioner James Gordon, a character who had become much more important and more sophisticated in the last twenty years, is an important part of the story, and his part in it is fascinating, although more thought would be given to him on Miller's second Dark Knight expedition - Batman: Year One in 1988. The Dark Knight Returns also features a young and energetic Robin, who serves the role that Robin should have from the beginning - to provide contrast to the character of the Batman. Interestingly, though, the death of Jason Todd is often referred to, though it was released three years before Jason actually died in the comic continuity - and even then, his death was decided by a readers' poll. Hmm... Alfred Pennyworth, of course, completes the classic team. As for villains to battle - Two of Batman's most classic enemies, The Joker and Two-Face, return on The Dark Knight Returns - mainly as subplots, and to serve as reflections for Batman himself. This story is not about fighting madmen. There is, though, a grand final showdown at the end, in which Batman fights a surprising enemy...<br />As for the art: Frank Miller's artwork is an acquired taste. So is Lynn Varley's coloring, which is subtle and pale and may seem somewhat outdated to modern readers. Miller's drawing on The Dark Knight Returns is not as impressive and appealing as his work on Sin City, but if you enjoyed his early artwork, especially on Wolverine and Ronin, you'll like this one too. The artwork really is brilliant, if you take the time to see its subtleties. At any rate, on The Dark Knight Returns Miller had the benefit of not only the wonderful coloring of Lynn Varley (who also collaborated on Ronin) but also one of the finest inkers in the world of comics, Mr. Klaus Janson, who contributed to the series beyond words, gave it a lot of its atmosphere and created some of the darkest and most impressive images of Batman and Gotham City. In every possible way, The Dark Knight Returns is a masterpiece. If you like comics, and not just super-hero comics, by all means read it.	2003-09-28
US	50376745	RHROZGB272LKJ	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another bullseye for Terry	Yep, Terry Pratchett strikes again, this time with a hilarious parody on `The Phantom of the Opera'. With Magrat Garlick finally settled nicely as the Queen of Lancre, the remaining witches, Esme `Granny' Weatherwax and Gytha `Nanny' Ogg, travel to the big city of Ankh Morpork to visit young Agnes Nitt - a promising potential witch from Lancre who went to Ankh to find her future in the Opera. While they're there, the witches help solve a series of mysterious murders at the Opera House.<br />The Witch books seem to get better every time, and the characters of Nanny and Granny are, on Maskerade, more full and charming than ever before. The new characters - Agnes, Senor Basilica, Walter Plinge and the rest - are all hilarious and very well-written. And let's not forget cameos by old favorites like `Nobby' Nobbs, Sgt. Detritus and the Librarian.<br />One of Terry's most intelligent parodies, equals Lords And Ladies but much, much funnier - Maskerade is essential for Pratchett fans and Discworld veterans.	2003-09-19
US	50376745	R3LHRRIB1DGFG4	0061059056	514374276	Hogfather (Discworld)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Wickedly Funny	It's Hogswatch night in the Discworld...<br />Where is the big jolly fat man? Why is Death creeping down chimneys and trying to say Ho Ho Ho? The darkest night of the year is getting a lot darker...<br />The 20th book in Terry Pratchett's Discworld series is hardly a proper introduction to the series, but for old fans it's one of Terry's funniest works. Readers will rejoice in the return of Death's granddaughter, Susan Sto-Helit (first introduced in `Soul Music'), who is naturally accompanied by the Death Of Rats and the Raven - as well as large doses of Death, who is probably the most interesting character in the Discworld universe, and always promises great comical scenes, and also a return of the Auditors from `Reaper Man'. The wizards of Unseen University - Archcancellor Ridcully, Ponder Stibbons, the Dean, the Bursar and the rest - also make a hilarious appearance. As for new characters - `Hogfather' introduces a lovely villain in the eccentric young Assassin Mr. Teatime, and his group of thugs makes for some great comic relief. More comic relief is supplied by Bilious, the (Oh) God of Hangovers.<br />Some bits of the plot, I must point out - mainly the scenes of Death posing as the Hogfather - are largely inspired, not to say ripped-off, from Tim Burton's `Nightmare Before Christmas'. That didn't bother me too much, though; Terry's terrific writing makes up for it. `Hogfather' is a terrific buy for Pratchett fans, as long as you've read `Mort', `Reaper Man' and `Soul Music'.	2003-09-06
US	50376745	R2ISB5QK4A2V1U	1563896087	914648860	Gangland	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautiful tales of gruesome violence	This trade paperback collects the first four issues of Vertigo Comics' Gangland series - 14 short stories altogether, by some of the leading artists and writers in the field. The stories in Gangland are all stories about organized crime and gang life, but they all share a sarcastic, sardonic, post-modernistic kind of view, which makes them fascinatingly fresh and original. As these short story collections often do, Gangland has stronger bits and weaker ones, and the whole collection can't really be as satisfying as a good full-scale graphic novel (like a good Frank Miller or Alan Moore story), but the stories are often more extreme and more experimental than a full novel can be. Being a comic writer I can tell you myself - short stories give the writer much more room for experimentations and chance-taking. Some of the stories on Gangland really take chances.<br />My favorite story in the collection, which takes the subject to extreme ends, would have to be `Worldwide Gangster Robots', presumably based on the ranting of a real person (credited in the beginning of the story), is the story of a man's (imaginary... or is it?) battle against the brainwashing of Worldwide Gangster Robot Radio Brains. Danijel Zezelj's artwork and Grant Goleash's (`100 Bullets') coloring are dark and eerie and the mumbling monologue combines for a terrific and creepy atmosphere.<br />Other highlights include `Clean House' by Brian Azzarello (Hellblazer, Incredible Hulk) and Tim Bradstreet, which takes a rather well-chewed crime-story subject and gives it a nasty twist and a startling punchline. `Big Shot' is another excellent piece written by Jamie Delano (`Batman: Manbat) with wonderful artwork, which is short and fast and makes its point well. `The Big Snooze', with the immediately recognizable inking of the great David Lloyd (`V For Vendetta') tells the story of a very unlikely hero, and is both sarcastic and very, very touching (usually noted as an artist, Lloyd does a great writing jobon this one). `Platinum Nights' has great artwork by Paradox Press's James Romberger and a fantastic story, and `Electric China Death', words by Richard Bruning (editor for DC Comics) and pictures by Mark Chiarello (`Terminal City'), takes a surreal look on a classic scene of violence. Finally, the great Peter Kuper's (`The System', `ComicStrips' and a series of Franz Kafka adaptations) `Chains', a very short comic which says a lot more in three wordless pages than some of the others do in fifteen.<br />I put the rating down to 4/5 because of some of the filler material, the much weaker stories. My biggest disappointment was Dave Gibbons' `The Bear', a poorly written and very expected story. Mr. Gibbons, legendary `Watchmen' artist, doesn't make it as and artist like Lloyd does. `Initiation', `Killer Smile' and `Small Time' are also weak, though they all have good artwork.<br />The extreme violence shown on the pages of Gangland is poetic violence, like that of Quentin Tarantino or David Fincher. It shows violence and lawbreaking at its most beautiful and its most horrific at once. Gangland is meant for mature readers, and ones who are not easily offended. If you enjoy works by artists like Frank Miller, Garth Ennis, Alan Moore, Peter Kuper or Robert Crumb, Gangland is well worth adding to your collection.	2003-08-03
US	50376745	R3ME1FGC3GKN7C	0765340054	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Much better than expected	Picking up this latest installment in Card's `Shadow' saga, I had very low expectations. As I was rather bored with the last book in the series, `Shadow Of The Hegemon', I expected `Shadow Puppets' would probably be further down the scale. I was wrong, however; `Shadow Puppets' was an impressive improvement over its predecessor, and though it's no match for the original Ender novels, it returns to an important trait that made `Ender's Game' and `Ender's Shadow' terrific books - that is, concentrating on the characters rather than international intrigue and military operation. The lead characters in the novel, as you might expect from reading the previous books, are Bean, Petra Arkanian, Hegemon Peter Wiggin and evil genius Achilles De Flanders. Each of the four characters is well developed, the writing is good and the story is well-paced and interesting. If you enjoyed Card's earlier writings, pick `Shadow Puppets' up, too - even if it means having to wade through `Shadow Of The Hegemon'.	2003-07-12
US	50376745	R390G3EJPEUCEK	1563891905	423489694	Batman: The Last Arkham	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A highly intelligent Batman story	One of the finest pieces of graphic literature the Batman storyline have spawned during the 90s, `The Last Arkham' was the storyline that made up the four first issues of `Shadow Of The Bat' in 1992. Written by the spectacular Alan Grant and drawn by Norm Breyfogle, `The Last Arkham' goes far beyond the quality and subject matter usually found in the monthly comics, and reminds me of those wonderful days of Dennis O'Neil and Neil Adams in the 80s. Resisting the urge to use any of Batman's classic foes, Grant did the impossible here: He created two new `classic' characters - Jeremiah Arkham and Mr. Zsasz, both of whom are fascinating characters and were used often in the Batman comics since - not an easy task after fifty years of Batman comics.<br />Like the best of Batman stories, `The Last Arkham' creates a good mix of action, suspense and some criminal psychology - I wouldn't call it deep, Jeremiah Arkham's behaviorism theories, but it's highly intelligent and well written. Commissioner Gordon and Nightwing play important parts. The lead villain, Mr. Zsasz, is a great creation, and since he's not an established enough character to make for a good one-on-one story, the rest of the rogue gallery are thrown into the mix to make some nice scenes in the asylum as well as the terrific action scene in the beginning of part four. The storyline and dialogue are sharp and mature.<br />The artwork is basically standard, but at that it's terrific: Under the flat coloring, Breyfogle's linework is superb. The page compositions are fantastic; I especially loved the very last page of part four.<br />Highly recommended for Batman fans, a terrific book to add to your collection.	2003-07-04
US	50376745	R14R1L03NYZ40A	0811836363	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic!	So very many books were written about the Beatles, and so many TV documentries were made about them. Anthology is definitely the best one yet, and I don't think there will ever be another book as complete and sincere as it. For the first time the Beatles tell their own story (yes, even John - material from old intreviews with him are beautifuly collected and edited into the book), along with some help from George Martin, Derek Taylor and Neil Aspinall and some old quotes from Brian Epstein, Mel Evans, Pete Best and others, and that makes Anthology a truly unique experience. The story is told from such a personal viewpoint that you will feel like you're part of the band. George, Ringo, Paul and John will become your closest friends for the period of reading the book.<br />Anthology covers every (well, probably almost every) aspect of the Beatles' life and musical career. It starts as four seperate stories as every band member describes his childhood, then melds into the story of the band. All the interviews from the wonderful Anthology TV series are in the book, but so are many more. There are far more details - especially about the music itself, which was neglected in the series. While in the series some albums were hardly mentioned, in the book the Beatles refer to almost every song, telling a thing or two about its background. Also, more touchy subjects which were avoided in the series appear here - such as, the (phony) death of Paul McCartney, the (real) death of Stuart Sutcliffe, the unfortunate Hell's Angels incident and the terrible case of Charles Manson and his connection to the White Album. The photographs and documents shown in the book are facsinating as well.<br />And no, it's NOT too long. The only problem with the book is its weight, which makes it quite uncomfortable to read. Anthology is a superb book, which reminded me why I used to love the Beatles so much and got me to hear all their albums again - twice.	2002-09-19
US	50376745	RDKN0CV6B1CU3	1560974338	167429344	Dan & Larry: Don't Do That	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Pointless	Sorry, not impressed. I haven't read anything else by Cooper, but this particular book reads like a not very good variation on ideas which were revolutionary when Robert Crumb used them in the 60s. There's nothing shocking or original or unique in telling a story of adolesence and confused sexual identity with cartoon animals portraying people, it was done many times before. The whole story is a pointless collection of very pointless stories, the only point of the whole thing being a rather obvious, cheap psychological, contreversial-like (only it isn't) message about sexual abuse and homosexuality. If you don't have an original approach, at least try to approach a subject that was less overdone.<br />So why three stars? For the artwork. It's really quite good, especially the large surrealistic landscapes. The book could have been much better if it was all just full-panel landscape shots. Cooper's black and white work is excellent, and the character design is also very nice. If you're into black and white comics - and if you're into comics mainly for the artwork - you'll enjoy this. If you're a big fan of underground comix, you'll enjoy this too. But it's by far not one of the best in the genre. Try 'Lenore', 'Johnny the Homocidal Maniac', anything by Daniel Clowes, Will Eisner or R. Crumb.	2002-03-28
US	50376745	R2XGIGJUVHNENY	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Essential reading for everyone, repeat, everyone	Science fiction is all too often looked upon as an inferior form of literature. True, there is plenty of trash in SF, but also in romance and mystery and those are rarely refered to with the same contempt. One of my english teachers once said (and I apologize in advance if my quote is not a hundred percent accurate) that only a realistic novel (i.e takes place in a realistic setting) can achieve a high level of emotional effect, because the reader can only identify with the characters if they are placed in a setting we are personally familiar with.<br />Ha.<br />For any of you who might share this opinion, Ender's Game is the place to start your re-education. A masterpiece, one of the finest books written in the last fifty years, an absolute essential reading for all - I'll go as far as to say, especially those who are not heavy SF fans, because if you're a heavy SF fan and you haven't read it you're in trouble. Suffice to say that it won both the Hugo and the Nebula awards, and that it absolutely deserved them. Ender's Game is the most human, most touching piece of science fiction I've read, a perfectly flowing novel, the kind that is painful to put down. I wouldn't like to give too much of the plot away, but I would say that it takes plaee in outer space, and it does in some way involve aliens; and it's completely not what you might expect.<br />Orson Scott Card is a wonderful author, and of his books that I've read Ender's Game is most likely the best. Three sequels exist, all of them fantastic, but Ender's Game is by far the most accessible. The second book in the series, Speaker for the Dead, is also a masterpiece, but it's involves much more 'sci-fi philosophy' which some may find more appealing than the more psychological emphysis of Ender's Game and others may find somewhat tiresome. The others in the series, Xenocide and Children of the Mind, continue the direction the second part took and wander further off to long, complex phylosophical-scienific theories. Those two are certainly not for everyone. Ender's Game is, and it's the place to start. I've said enough. Read it now.	2002-01-13
US	50376745	R1F3XFQWENAZKW	0825612675	702324247	Pink Floyd: The Wall, Guitar Tablature Edition	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Very accurate - at times too accurate	All in all, a great tab book to a fantastic album; David Gilmour is really a fascinating player with a very unique style, and this book is a great way of learning about Gilmour's technique, and thus understand Pink Floyd as musicians as well as the guitar as an instrument much better. Some songs here are very easy to play, even for beginners, and others are more complicated, so it's better to start with the easier ones like 'Hey You', then build up to the more sophisticated riffs and solos.<br />The book is very accurate, and has few errors; but in that accuracy lies its biggest failing. Many times the transcriber made too much of an effort to put down every single sound on the album, and thus take small, almost unnoticable ticks and scratches and write them down as 'unpitched percussive notes'(i.e blocked notes). Those are very confusing and many times completely unnecessary. I played the Wall CD in full volume and still wasn't able to hear many of these notes (I wouldn't be surprised if some of them were gleeches in the recording which were removed during the CD remastering). Of the ones I did hear, I'm sure at least some were not intentional.<br />Bottom line: excellent book, but more for studying of Gilmour's playing than for actually playing the songs.	2001-12-30
US	50376745	R2380379MOYHVT	0825612675	702324247	Pink Floyd: The Wall, Guitar Tablature Edition	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Very accurate - at times too accurate	All in all, a great tab book to a fantastic album; David Gilmour is really a fascinating player with a very unique style, and this book is a great way of learning about Gilmour's technique, and thus understand Pink Floyd as musicians as well as the guitar as an instrument much better. Some songs here are very easy to play, even for beginners, and others are more complicated, so it's better to start with the easier ones like 'Hey You', then build up to the more sophisticated riffs and solos.<br />The book is very accurate, and has few errors; but in that accuracy lies its biggest failing. Many times the transcriber made too much of an effort to put down every single sound on the album, and thus take small, almost unnoticable ticks and scratches and write them down as 'unpitched percussive notes'(i.e blocked notes). Those are very confusing and many times completely unnecessary. I played the Wall CD in full volume and still wasn't able to hear many of these notes (I wouldn't be surprised if some of them were glitches in the recording which were removed during the CD remastering). Of the ones I did hear, I'm sure at least some were not intentional.<br />Bottom line: excellent book, but more for studying of Gilmour's playing than for actually playing the songs.	2001-12-30
US	50376745	R1JPEZ52FKWW2R	0380973642	26552478	Smoke & Mirrors: Short Fictions and Illusions	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Post Modernism in its most enchanting	If nothing else did, Smoke and Mirrors will break down any prejudice you might have had about Neil Gaiman. He is one of the finest, most innovative English writers of the past few decades, not only in comics, not only in fantasy or horror, but in any medium. Though his stories are usually fantastical, or perhaps strange in nature, most of them are also very real in a much deeper sense, his writing is original and beautiful. This fantastic collection of short stories and poems show the full range of his powerful writing and the development of his style from the early 80s to today, including stories that are not, in any way, fantastical ('The Goldfish Bowl and Other Stories').<br />'Post Modern' is the rather odd label that would probably fit his writing best; a review in 'Cinemascape' called him 'a post modern Brother Grimm', which I think is a wonderful description. Neil's work is post modernism in its finest, most enchanting, the way it should have been. He smashes old mythes and taboos, and the stories are often shocking, possibly offending to some; his treatent of myths like Santa Claus ('Nicholas Was...'), Snow White ('Snow, Glass, Apples') or God ('Murder Mysteries') are extremely bold, and never what you would expect. He walks on the edge of pornography ('Tastings'); but he rarely misses his point. The stories are sharp, powerful, with a great sense of irony and social insight.<br />Smoke and Mirrors has something for most readers; some stories, like 'Shaggoth's Old Peculiar' and 'Chivalry', would probably be enjoyed by all, some may be more difficult. But while the stories are often very subtle and sophisticated, they are also painfuly crystal clear. 'Babycakes', one of my favorites, is one of many in the collection that are shockingly effective. Even if you're not a big fantasy fan, read Smoke and Mirrors and get to know an author who is one of a kind.	2001-12-07
US	50376745	RRY5UAZOY3I0K	0812520424	191633566	The Untold Legend of the Batman	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Quite an interesting read	This nice little story of early-modern age Batman is not so much a story in its own right but more something of a clip show. The actual scripts and drawings are all original, of course, but very little of the plot is. The plot itself is mostly an excuse for a thorough retelling of the story of the Batman, his allies and his foes. It doesn't make any shocking new discoveries about the Batman's past, as do the Killing Joke or Year One; the stories told are taken directly and fully from classic silver and golden age volumes such as 'The Origin of the Batman'(Batman#47, 1948), or 'The First Batman'(Detective Comics#235, 1956).<br />The plot itself is lacking and simply not very interesting. The ending is quite well done, but there's simply no building up to it. Whatever plot there is is constantly interrupted by flashbacks from practicaly every character. However, what 'the Untold Legend of the Batman' attempts to do, and does quite well, is put some order into the Batman world, settle some old contradictions and set one formal history of Batman. Indeed, the early 80s were a time when super-heroes were recreated, especially Superman and Wonder-Woman, and Batman had to be fitted into the new DC universe.<br />So, while 'the Untold Legend of the Batman' is hardly a decent story itself, and does very little to develop the characters or the plot in any way, it's still an interesting read for all Batman fans and anybody who wants to know a thing or two about the Dark Knight, and is a fine addition to any comics collection.	2001-06-28
US	50376745	R2P0R2OU2MXYSD	1563894696	431283596	Batman: The Long Halloween	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A modern classic	The 80s were the times of the Bat. The revolution in the Batman comics, started in the mid-seventies by people like Dennis O'neil and Neal Adams, reached its peak in the eighties, with the works of such brilliant writers as Mike W. Barr, Alan Moore, Grant Morrison and, obviously, Frank Miller. Tim Burton's Batman, possibly the finest comics-based feature film, was also made at that time. The nineties weren't as favorable to the Dark Knight. The artistic barrier was broken, and the spirit of revolution that characterized 80s comics drifted away. With Neil Gaiman and others of his kind becoming the main power in adult comics, Batman was, once again, mainstream. Although some good stories were published, none had the impact and inventiveness of Frank Miller's Batman.<br />Which is why I was very pleasently surprised to read the Long Halloween, a collected mini-series originally published in 1996, which is probably the finest Batman story released since Grant Morrison's masterpiece 'Arkham Asylum: Serious House on Serious Earth' in 1989. It was the first work I've ever read of either writer Jeph Loeb or artist Tim Sale. Loeb's dialogue is extremely powerful, flawless, reminding me of Frank Miller's writing on 'Dark Knight Returns' or 'Ronin'. Sale's wonderful artwork and brilliant use of close-ups, color and page compositions brought back memories of Dave Gibbons' work on 'Watchmen'.<br />The storyline was the best I've seen in years, recreating the story of Harvey Dent, aka Two-Face - in my mind, the most interesting of Batman's many enemies. It's a detective story, very different from the action-packed style of most 90s Batman, with the beautifuly created atmosphere of a film-noir. A family of gangsters and a serial killer are the actual 'villains' in the Long Halloween, but the main idea - the main conflict in the story - is the friendship of Batman, Harvey Dent and Comm. Gordon, and the old question of law and justice; some of Batman's more standart Arkham Asylum residing foes are brought in for short appearences, not stealing the show but giving this extremely long story some energy. Dent's personality is crafted brilliantly, as is the relationship between the three law enforcers, and the story of Dent's fall into crime is more tragic and touching than ever. The Long Halloween is one for the ages.	2001-06-27
US	50376745	R36U06GKQ019Z4	0811826848	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fantastic!	So very many books were written about the Beatles, and so many TV documentries were made about them. Anthology is definitely the best one yet, and I don't think there will ever be another book as complete and sincere as it. For the first time the Beatles tell their own story (yes, even John - material from old intreviews with him are beautifuly collected and edited into the book), along with some help from George Martin, Derek Taylor and Neil Aspinall and some old quotes from Brian Epstein, Mel Evans, Pete Best and others, and that makes Anthology a truly unique experience. The story is told from such a personal viewpoint that you will feel like you're part of the band. George, Ringo, Paul and John will become your closest friends for the period of reading the book.<br />Anthology covers every (well, probably almost every) aspect of the Beatles' life and musical career. It starts as four seperate stories as every band member describes his childhood, then melds into the story of the band. All the interviews from the wonderful Anthology TV series are in the book, but so are many more. There are far more details - especially about the music itself, which was neglected in the series. While in the series some albums were hardly mentioned, in the book the Beatles refer to almost every song, telling a thing or two about its background. Also, more touchy subjects which were avoided in the series appear here - such as, the (phony) death of Paul McCartney, the (real) death of Stuart Sutcliffe, the unfortunate Hell's Angels incident and the terrible case of Charles Manson and his connection to the White Album. The photographs and documents shown in the book are facsinating as well.<br />And no, it's NOT too long. The only problem with the book is its weight, which makes it quite uncomfortable to read. Anthology is a superb book, which reminded me why I used to love the Beatles so much and got me to hear all their albums again - twice.	2001-06-26
US	50376745	R1OH09Y7BCZ46S	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A brilliant analysis on the Dark Knight	Many super-heroes came and went through the years, but not one had the staying power that Batman had. Of course, Superman started his career earlier than Batman, and remains the symbol of the super-hero genre; but while in the 80s and 90s Superman gradually became boring and repetitive, Batman reached his peak in the late 80s. Since his first appearence in 1939 Batman constantly changed, taking different forms every decade, and thus in the 80s, the Renaissance of comics, the flexibility of his character enabled every author to make his own Batman. Some of the best and most revolutionary writers and artists in comic art worked with Batman, each giving him something different.<br />The thing that made Batman so flexible and changable, in my opinion, is the very fact that he and his enemies lack super-powers. Both Batman and his foes are defined not by their powers, their physical strenght or their weapons, but by their personalities, by their MOTIVES. The Joker or Two Face, being purely head cases, are to me far more interesting than any enemy Superman or the Green Lantern ever had; and Batman's own imperfectness and problematic character make him far more interesting than those &quot;super-heroes&quot;.<br />In the late 80s the writers who worked on Batman started studying these subjects more than ever. One of the most fascinating things they realized, is how very similiar - in some ways, at least - Batman was to his enemies. Many works from that period worked on that thin line between Batman's good-guy obsession and his enemies bad-guy insanity, and the unusual relationship between them; most notably Morrison's 'Arkham Asylum', Delano's 'Manbat' and later Alan's Grant 'The Last Arkham'.<br />Alan Moore, one of the greatest minds in comic book and graphic novel writing, took that idea to its limits. In all of Moore's works, he played on very similiar ideas - basically, the idea of good and evil. Unlike other great writers like Neil Gaiman and Grant Morrison, Moore makes a point of using very traditional, very mainstream comic book ideas but using them in a very ironic, very criticizing way, exploring the problematic ideas of good-guys and bad-guys. The best example is, of course, 'Watchmen', in which he took the idea of the super-hero to disturbing new places, but his ideas also show in his conception of Jack the Ripper in 'From Hell' and in his approach to the unusual character of the Swamp Thing.<br />In 'The Killing Joke' Moore studied the characters of Batman and the Joker in an unusual way, which is very disturbing to old bat-fans who are used to the good Batman and the bad Joker. The Killing Joke is a disturbing work indeed, a graphic novel which draws you into it like few others do - especially if you read a lot of earlier Batman stories. Reading it you'll be shocked to find yourself undestanding, even feeling pity for the Joker, not long after he crippled Barbara Gordon, than took pictures of her naked and showed them to her father ( No, it's NOT a book for children. )Strangely and ironically, it presents the Joker more human than ever, and re-defines his personality, his story and the unusual relationship between him and the Batman.<br />The Killing Joke is a graphic novel, meaning that it stands all by itself as a complete work. It needs no introduction, and it doesn't really matter where it fits in with Batman's history ( well, except for the Barbara Gordon thing ). From the cover to the back cover, it is one perfectly combined masterpiece, complete with beautiful artwork by the excellent Brian Bolland. Along with Miller's 'Dark Knight Returns' and Morrison's 'Arkham Asylum', The Killing Joke is the most brilliant, most ingenious Batman stories ever written, if not one of the best comic books ever made.	2001-06-07
