US	50375720	R25Y9ZLH4Z9I7O	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Did not carry me away...	There are wallpaper historicals, and there are wallpaper historicals.  I don't mind reading the type where the history is very lightly sketched (or barely exists).  I do mind the type where there are serious howlers.  Unfortunately, this book started grating on my teeth with the first chapter.  We have a setting that reminded me of Romeo and Juliet (late medieval to Renaissance-era Italy, without central authority) with two feuding authorities. Soldiers guard the king with bows and arrows.  A marriage is forcibly arranged by an ailing king between two feuding families. So what is wrong? Unfortunately, the setting is England 1802.  The hero, who is a marquess, is the son of an earl. [Usually, it is the other way around in the British peerage].  If you have any liking for the minutae of British social history, you would want to avoid this book.<br /><br />What is good about the book? Well, the protectiveness of the hero towards his child-bride (she is four!) from the outset is apparent.  Nathan, who is a spy cum a pirate, is undoubtedly a decent man.  His young bride, Sara, whom he does not claim until she is at least 18, is naive.  She is also a klutz (hopelessly and destructively clumsy) and scatterbrained.  If you like klutzy heroines who are naive, you will love Sara.  I didn't, although I tried.<br /><br />I vastly preferred Garwood's GENTLE WARRIOR and HONOR'S SPLENDOR which are set in medieval England and Scotland.  However, most of my Garwood reads were in the early 1990s when I was still new to single title contemporary romances or single title historical romances.  If you are relatively new to romances, if you don't demand even a small measure of historical credibility (as opposed to accuracy), or if you love naive or off-beat heroines, you might enjoy Garwood.  My re-read of THE GIFT (after several years) was a severe disappointment.	2004-09-04
US	50375720	R3J0VV4MM2K278	039331538X	443616007	The Unknown Shore	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very interesting story, predecessor to Aubrey-Maturin saga	If you have just begun to read nautical fiction or have come to it by way of one of Patrick O'Brian's later Aubrey-Maturin books, this book is well worth reading.   <br /> <br />I have been reading nautical fiction for a couple of years, and have just finished my first Aubrey-Maturin book (the fourth - THE MAURITIUS COMMAND). I came to it via Jane Austen's Persuasion when I was wondering about Captain Wentworth's life at sea.  I then read through most of the Horatio Hornblower books (set at the same time, as the Aubreyiad, as it is known to fans) and even watched two great films about life at sea during the Georgian era - DAMN THE DEFIANT and the Horatio Hornblower film starring Gregory Peck.  <br /> <br />I have to say that it helps if you have watched one of these films (or the later version of Horatio Hornblower starring Ioan Gruffyd), or if you have seen one of the British Navy's ships or a reconstruction at hand.  If not, try one of the many good books explaining the construction and layout of a man-of-war or life in the British navy. [I have reviewed at least one such book].  Prior to my re-read of Persuasion and my curiosity about all things naval, I was an utter novice. I am still almost as confused as Toby, one of the two protagonists of THE UNKNOWN SHORE about many things naval. <br /> <br />How does this book do for someone who is not incredibly familiar with nautical fiction but has read a bit (like me), who comes to it perhaps from another genre of fiction, or who has picked this kind of book up for the first time?  The first two chapters are a delightful evocation of life in Georgian England (although it is not clear that this is 1740), with Midshipman the Honourable John \\"Jack\\" Byron forming part of a cousin's large household. When Jack leaves to try and join Anson's round-the-world expedition, he takes along with him the eccentric, alarmingly naive, socially inept, and well-read Tobias Barrows.  After a series of adventures in London, Toby is commissioned as a surgeon's mate (or assistant).  Jack hopes that he and Toby will be posted on the same ship, since someone has to look out for Toby (and rescue him from himself).  Both are posted to the WAGER, the least-regarded ship in the expedition since it is not a proper man-of-war.  The first part of the expedition is fairly routine, with Toby learning the ways of life aboard and three captains taking command, with the last being the worst. <br /> <br />The expedition soon runs into trouble around Cape Horn.  The WAGER is separated from the rest of the convoy and shipwrecked on a desolate island.  The captain's harsh discipline imposed on the surviving cruise leads to desertions and then mutiny; Jack and Toby remain behind with the captain and a few others.  The second half of the book is grim but realistic reading.  Eventually, only a few people survive illness (mostly scurvy and lack of food), the stormy seas, capture by Indians, and more comfortable imprisonment by the Spanish in Chile to find their way home by a circuitous route. <br /> <br />I will not tell you who makes it back, but the Jack Byron of this book is the grandfather of the poet Lord Byron (the 6th Baron) so he makes it through.   <br /> <br />The book is good reading, although not fast reading (unless you prefer to skip all the details about life abroad, the ornithological observations of Toby etc).  Jack Byron is a precursor of the far more bluff (and more politically inept Jack Aubrey) but he comes from a better family;  his father was a lord, his brother is a lord, and his grandfather Lord Berkeley is politically influential and with naval connections.  [His sister Isabella will go on to marry a wealthy earl herself].  Tobias Barrow, who is apparently entirely fictional, is in some ways an early version of Stephen Maturin (although far more naive and inept).  The description of Toby is almost spot-on for Maturin, down to the dreadful equestrian skils and their shared profession - surgery.   <br /> <br />One thing that I had mixed feelings about was the level of authorial intrusion.  In this book, O'Brian inserts his comments here and there, sometimes at length.  I grew to notice it less through the book as the situation becomes grimmer, but at times it jarred in the early stages.   <br /> <br />If you are wondering about how much background you need, the navy as a career and the importance of \\"interest\\" is well-explained by Jack to the naive and clueless Toby.  Some knowledge about the period (the start of the War of the Austrian Succession; the changes in politics with the start of Hanoverian rule) would be helpful.  What I missed most was a starting date for the novel, and for a long time I laboured under the impression that this story took place in the late 1750s. (OK, I *am* clueless about the dates of Anson's expedition, although I know that his successful capture of a Spanish galleon made him very rich).	2004-08-28
US	50375720	R26QZQPO5HJOTW	0263801977	669840738	Lady Linford's Return (Mills & Boon Historical)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sequel to The Earl of Rayne's Ward	This book is a mixture of promising details and some tired cliches. I picked this book up, having read Anne Ashley's book Lady Knightley's Secret, and then came across this work. The story is a sequel to an earlier book The Earl of Rayne's Ward, where we first meet Viscount Linford (who has &quot;lost&quot; his wife). In this book, we find out exactly how this happened. <br /> It is not a spoiler to say that Viscount Linford married his wife when she was just 16 and married only for her money (promised him by her miserly and misanthropic father), since this appears in the first chapter. We soon learn that he was a rather dissolute rake, but has changed his ways. Linford visits his aunt in London and is introduced to her entrancing friend, Mrs Emily Stowen, who is apparently a widow of means. However, it turns out that Mrs Stowen is neither a widow nor all that unknown to him. If you have read a few romances, you will guess her identity even before the hero does. <br />  <br /> The rest of the story is taken up with the attempts of Lord Linford to win back his wife through means fair and foul, and how Lady Linford finds her place as chatelaine of a great country estate, despite the machinations of a rather nasty neighbor. There is a sub-plot involving attempted rape and murder, and blackmail, although most of the story is focused around the growing friendship between Linford and his wife. <br />  <br /> My main problem with the story is that I found a couple of secondary characters - a young neighbor Lucy Maitland (and her family dynamics), and a retired Bow Street runner - far more interesting than the hero and heroine. When this happens, even a decent story loses its attraction. However, this might not happen to you. <br />  <br /> Anne Ashley writes a competent Regency romance, with nothing really jarring. However, this book's plot and main characters are not as arresting as those of her other book Lady Knightley's Secret. <br />  <br />	2004-07-25
US	50375720	R215JJPF20TBC6	0373292511	952048203	Lady Allerton's Wager	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Definitely not her best work...	I have had mixed experiences with Cornick's books.  While some of them have been amazing experiences (THE LARKSWOOD LEGACY, and to a lesser extent TRUE COLORS), others have started out well and then rapidly gone downhill.<br />Unfortunately LADY ALLERTON'S WAGER (part of a Mills &amp; Boons gift set) is one of these.  The premise is unusual.  A jaded Earl who is short of cash (having inherited from his grandfather who let things slight) runs into a lovely young Cyprian, or so he thinks.  She offers him a wager for one toss of the dice - if she loses, he will win her favors for free; if he loses on the other hand, she wants an island from him.  It becomes obvious both to the Earl and to us (the readers) that the Cyprian is no Cyprian, but a Lady.  What is she doing at the Cyprians' Ball, and why does she want the island so badly?<br />Both questions are answered fairly early in the book, except that the Earl decides that he does not believe her reasons for wanting the island.  This is partly because there is a long-running family feud between his family and hers; partly because he believes what his man of business says. [And this part of the plot drops out too easily as well, as does a certain secondary character who will reappear in a sequel].  <br />I won't go into details, except to say that the subsequent plot setup strained my credulity considerably.  And I couldn't root for either the heroine (remarkably immature or naive) or the hero (whose behavior ranges from dishonourable when he reneges on the wager initially to boorish when he accuses the heroine of having cheated him financially).  Cornick is capable of so much more, that this book felt all the more rushed and half-baked.<br />If you enjoy a road romance (or an island romance), you may like this book.  If you want a plot that makes sense, and characters that act consistently, you might want to pass this book up.	2004-07-17
US	50375720	R1UWSRO0DHWUOY	0373079834	995016477	The Comeback of Con MacNeill (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 983)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Outstanding book in a three-book plus series	Virginia Kantra has joined my list of favorite authors, after I read a few other books and then stumbled across Book 2 of the O'Neill brothers trilogy (the first book is Kantra's second THE PASSION OF PATRICK O'NEILL;  the third book is THE TEMPTATION OF SEAN O'NEILL).  Another book MAD DOG AND ANNIE is a sequel to some of the events that take place in THE COMEBACK OF CON O'NEILL, although both books can pretty much stand on their own - which is the secret of a great series romance.<br />Kantra writes category romance, i.e. romances published in a monthly line by publishers such as Harlequin and Silhouette.  I cut my eye-teeth on category romances (along with Georgette Heyer), but most of the authors I loved back then leave me cold now.  <br />Kantra's second book of her O'Neill trilogy is set in a small town.  Financial consultant Con O'Neill, with his lean clever face, has been forced out of Boston and his high-paying and high-flying job.  Not only has he lost his job, but also his fiancee.  Con comes to small town USA when he is hired for a job or project by the local bank president - to bail his daughter Val out of trouble with her restaurant.  This is small potatoes for Con, but if he can pull off the job, he will get a badly-needed recommendation with which to stage his comeback to the world of high finance.  <br />Con is not too enthusiastic.  What does he know about restaurants after all?  Pretty soon, he realizes that Val Cutler, the restaurant owner, is something special.  Val has her own demons too - including being emotionally smothered by her too-helpful father and her distant mother. She wants to run a purely vegetarian show in a town where the usual call is for steak and fries.  Con tries to reorient her cuisine with unexpected results.  He then begins poking into the business's finances with even more unexpected results.<br />Woven into this story of a woman's effort to prove herself to her father and the town is the story of her friend Annie who ismarried to the local \\"golden boy\\" [For more on that, read MAD DOG AND ANNIE].  There is suspense, there is heartache, and there is the need to combat prejudices of all kinds - the town's against the outsider Con and for the local \\"star\\", Val's father's about his daughter's efforts to make her own living, and more.  Throughout this, there winds a honeyed strain of sexual tension (along with tension of another kind) which brings the book to a dramatic close.<br />Con and Val's problems are not solved by the end.  We know that life will be a struggle, and that Con will have to make a choice - between big-city glamour and fame and small-town success.  Elder brother Patrick, his second wife Kate and their family make a brief appearance.  <br />If you liked this book, try either the last part of the O'Neill trilogy or MAD DOG AND ANNIE (which tells the heartbreaking story of Val's friend).	2004-05-11
US	50375720	R2SLCI6AEWXNZF	0263122964	733062965	No Guarantees (Romance)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Fairly decent plot, usual Donald characters	This book features widow Camilla struggling to keep her small dairy (and mixed) farm afloat, after the death of husband David in a freak accident.  Both her late husband and her uncle have made her promise not to sell to neighbour Quinn Fraser, but why? Again, no spoilers, but the rural setting is beautifully described as are the neighbors. (As in Regency romances, where there are plenty of lords and especially Dukes around, Donald's novels have wealthy landowners/ gentleman farmers galore).  <br />Camilla rejects help from Quinn; in the meantime cousin Karen (a nice person) arrives looking for a job.  But how is Camilla going to keep herself afloat, and how will she repay her bank loan?  Small disasters that quickly become major ones, a possible thief or rapist, and Camilla's growing attraction to a man who has been forbidden to her... <br />A pleasant and competent story, although not one that sticks in your mind a few days after reading.	2004-03-25
US	50375720	R2AJYXP03FXLZT	0373113765	263153442	The Darker Side Of Paradise (Harlequin Presents, No. 1376)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Typical of early Robyn Donald	I have been a Robyn Donald reader (of her early works in any case) since the late 1980s.  This means that I have been able to read many of her novels set in or around the lovely South Pacific island of Falaisi.  [At some point, I will have to make up a listing of all her books that even mention this place!].  This book is not a Desert Island Keeper for me (a term I picked up at the website All About Romance), but it is a book that I like to re-read every few years.<br />The storyline is as follows - Candace Hume, whose background we learn little about in the beginning, has come to a lovely South Pacific island where she really cannot afford the lifestyle.  She has worked and saved for three years to reach her goal.  At the start of the book, her attention is fixed on billionaire Saul Jerrard, which is a red herring.  It is really Saul Jerrard's much younger sister Stephanie who has captured her attention and whom she has come to see.  Why?  I will not spoil the book for you, but the storyline involves Candace's own troubled personal and family history, worries about kidnapping and international terrorists, and a certain ruthless billionaire completely determined to protect his kid sister.<br />The attraction of Robyn Donald's best works has always been the sense of time and place that she evokes.  It is a pleasure to read her descriptions of the flora and fauna, and at her best, she can make the reader feel transported to a tropical paradise.  There is of course a darker side to every paradise, including this one - anything from raging hormones, dark emotions, the way in which power can used and misused.<br />A mild spoiler - relatively early into the book, Candace makes a decision that some readers might call stupid. Without it, there would really be no book (or a very different one).  <br />Despite this decision, I liked the heroine and felt for her pain and confusion.  Can she really step away from Stephanie, as demanded by Saul?  Is she willing to risk having ashort love affair or a brief acquaintance with Stephanie for a possible lifetime of pain and regret?  In the book, Candace who has avoided taking risks, becomes the consummate risk-taker, sometimes paying for it, sometimes winning through.  While I understood the hero's point of view, I also felt that he got off rather easily at the end.  If you don't like masterful and ruthless heroes, you might want to avoid this book.	2004-03-25
US	50375720	R3L0EGFQB3BC4K	0972852905	111784894	An Assembly Such as This (Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentleman: Book 1)	Books	4	164	175	N	N	Only the first third of Pride and Prejudice - retold	I do not wish to discourage anyone from buying this book, which I feel is one of the better Austen adaptations or sequels available today, and certainly among the best that I have read.<br />However, it is important to point out (as another reviewer has done) that Aidan covers only the first third of Jane Austen's novel, roughly upto the point that Mr Darcy leaves Netherfield and just before his visit to his aunt Lady Catherine in Kent. <br />Pamela Aidan's version of Mr Darcy is fairly true to Austen's Mr Darcy, although his self-absorption might displease some Austen purists.  The most interesting part of Aidan's version is her filling in the details about Darcy's life outside of the original novel.  This includes not only the goings-on in Ramsgate (with his sister Georgiana and Wickham) but also his relationships with other members of his family such as Col. Fitzwilliam and some close friends.  Darcy's valet Fletcher is a memorable secondary character.<br /> Aidan's explanations help us understand what Austen left out.  Jane Austen assumed that her readers would know the social conventions (for example, when to visit, when not to visit) as well as practicalities (for example, the burden imposed by relatives in trade or vulgarity among near relatives; the problems of a small dowry in the face of lack of gentility or family connections).  Readers who are fully conversant with Regency-era society might understand all these points, but for many other readers, Aidan's version of Pride and Prejudice might be a gentler and entertaining introduction to Austen's work.<br />The big minus for Aidan's book is that the price is a little stiff;  her entire retelling (with two books forthcoming) will end up at least thrice as long as the original and almost thrice as expensive (unless you are buying a critical edition of the original book).  Some readers might be put off by the level of detail, while others might find her language a little too flowery and the details just a little too excessive.  Others will relish her attention to details and consider her effort an admirable tribute to the great novelist. <br />I appreciate the fact that she did not stray from the original storyline even though she added new characters and invented new episodes involving Mr Darcy.  I do wish that some of the characters had other names, and at least one name evokes in my mind the image of a certain up-and-coming politician and barrister who lived in the same period.<br />Other recommended sequels I have read - Joan Austen-Leigh's version of Emma &quot;A Visit to Highbury&quot; (ASIN: 0312118600) which however uses the point-of-view of a minor character in the original novel and tells the story through letters.	2004-03-25
US	50375720	R3UA7HQCUB0AF3	0373027117	155060939	Love In The Valley	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Quite funny	This reminds me of Bringing Up Baby (starring Cary Grant and Katherine Grant), physical and verbal comedy alike. <br />Cordon Bleu cook Julia knows a famous theatrical family quite well, and when her regular employer is away, she goes to cook for them. One of them is practical joker Richard, who does not tell his eldest brother Hugh that a full-scale family reunion is on.  So Hugh, a legal eagle, comes home planning to work and work, only to collide on the road with Julia.  He assumes that Julia is younger than she really is; this is confirmed by a practical joke she plays on Hugh, believing him to be Richard.<br />Julia gradually becomes interested in Hugh, but her madcap antics and her tendency to have things fall apart in her hands (outside of the kitchen, and sometimes within it) create problems.  She begs Hugh to help out with family problems and to loosen up, but why is he so distant from his family?  Not to mention what's up with the different last name?<br />A pleasant, often enjoyable read. Most of the characters within the book are well fleshed out given the space limits, and this book appears to be part of a family series.  Some things did nag a bit at me, both while I was reading and afterwards,	2004-03-25
US	50375720	R2EWKXG9DVW203	0451405668	25749975	Prince of the Night (Dreamspun)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very good vampire historical	This is a surprisingly strong vampire historical romance, one that combines a vampire romance with a historical one - and in a slightly unusual setting - northern Italy 1859 at the height of the Italian fight for independence (or Piedmont's struggle to oust the Austrians from Modena etc).<br />I really don't have that much to add to what praise has been given by other readers.  Like them, I appreciated the unusual setting and time period (there being a surfeit of historical romances set in England in the Regency). Like them, I appreciate the skilful interplay of the story with the historical background - along with the author's careful description of the location, the minor characters, and so forth.<br />What really stood out was however not the historical detail, or the unusual setting.  It was the hero and the heroine.  The hero is a mysterious Italian nobleman (although we soon guess his identity and his problem).  The heroine is a sensible Englishwoman, the poor relation of a great English house who is escorting a petulant cousin \\"in trouble\\" to a safe haven owned by her father.  Not only is Cordelia a delightful person to know (with even her more unusual linguistic and psychic skills explained), but she reacts relatively calmly to her discovery of the hero's various secrets.  She is actually more worried by a murder of a servant than by any threats to her life (perhaps a bit unwisely).  <br />The hero is also truly remarkable - and totally different from Christine Feehan's Carpathian super-alpha males.  We do not doubt Dakon's determination or the difficult choices facing him. We do recognize the effort he must put into staying away from Cordelia.  Time and time again, faced with almost overwhelming temptation, he refuses to give in. <br />I mentioned Feehan's Carpathians for a reason.  It is a pity that Cresswell did not follow up on this book (or perhaps it is just as well).  Cresswell's Vam-pyres and Feehan's Carpathians have some things in common, but manythings are different (including their origins and their habits).  One problem facing both societies is the lack of females of their kind, and how they should relate to human females (if at all).<br />My only quibbles with the books was firstly with the names of the hero and his father (which nearly beset me with giggles), and secondly with a couple of nearly irrational moves made by Cordelia.  In addition, while I liked this book very much, it did not quite make keeper status for me.  It was a four for me, but it may be a keeper for you.	2003-02-17
US	50375720	RFXYOGFD3C1XL	1858287294	583539757	The Rough Guide to India	Books	4	10	10	N	N	As someone returning to India...	I have a different perspective on this book than a &quot;regular tourist&quot;.  I was looking for the following -<BR>a) a reasonably clear overview of each city or historical site, when it was built, and by whom, and why it is of importance to tourists and to India<BR>b) reasonable detail for cities, outside of the usual tourist attractions<BR>c) some attractions/ towns not listed in most tourist books.<br />I was checking the sections on West Bengal and Orissa in particular (having lived and travelled in both states).  I used those sections to compare between this guide (the 1999 edition) and Lonely Planet etc. For my purposes, Rough Guide was the most helpful - in describing places, in offering different ways to get around (with notes on how safe it is for women etc), in evaluating the historical and/or tourist appeal of places, and so forth.  I think I fell for this guide when I noticed the level of detail it had on eating places and places of worship in a residential area in South Calcutta (not to mention a critique of the Pipli handicraft industry).  <br />The little vignettes on getting around in a Hindu holy site (and in temples, where allowed in) were also quite interesting.  I have never been one to make pilgrimages, but if I wanted to do so, this would be useful to have along.  The history section was surprisingly thorough and balanced - and I learned new things not covered in Indian history textbooks in school.<br />Is this book perfect?  Of course not.  But a guidebook generally cannot cater to all tastes equally.  For me (a non-tourist but an NRI returning home), it did quite well (even though Jammu &amp; Kashmir were omitted but Ladakh was included).  It sparked in me the determination to visit Madhya Pradesh (one of the few states I have never visited) and parts of the Northeast.  I would love to see a Rough Guide or the equivalent that focuses more on Eastern and North-eastern India, but until this, this works fine.	2003-02-16
US	50375720	R2EVQTJ5TVYUXT	0451158377	999070019	Hidden Inheritance (Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	From the back cover mostly..	I don't usually read this particular author's books since her style and my tastes don't mesh very well.  I tried this one recently (in the process of clearing out my library) and liked it rather better than expected.<br />The back cover blurb is as follows:<br />&quot;A Most Perilous Position: Beautiful Vanessa Tarleton realized the risk of accepting a position in the household of Nicholas Leighton, Earl of Stone. She knew very well his lurid reputation.<br />But Vanessa's father had gambled away her family fortune, and she desperately needed employment. She told herself she could evade whatever snares Nicholas might set. All that she had to do was recall his record as a wanton womanizer and remind herself that marriage to her was the last thing on his mind.<br />Then Vanessa arrived at the earl's isolated country estate - and discovered that though she was forewarned about this infamously attractive man, she was not forearmed.&quot;<br />[My Comments]<br />Although I liked this book, I did have minor problems with it, notably with the hero's disagreement with the heroine over the help she was giving his sister.  On the other hand, the hero and heroine spent a lot of time together (once they met), there was no Big Misunderstanding (unless we count that over his sister, and Vanessa's intentions in helping her out), and there was no Big Secret.  There was even a small mystery - in the nature of the hidden inheritance (as described in the title) - but nothing that a dedicated mystery reader would not spot immediately.<br />The theme of needlework and tapestry repair in the book was well-done (from the author's own experience) and was certainly new to me.  The heroine's aunt at the beginning was a bit over-the-top (her reasoning not being explained) and there were small problems in understanding motivations here and there.  But on the whole, this was a pretty good read.  <br />Other Hendrickson books I have enjoyed in the past (several years ago) - Harriet's Beau, and Lord Ware's Widow.  This particular book is a very early Hendrickson (her second Regency if the Nonesuch site is correct), and the style is rather different from her current style or so I understand.  If you like quieter stories and love reading about needlework and tapestries (or about Regency weight reduction techniques) try this book.	2003-02-16
US	50375720	R223JLDW9VJSQ	0843951354	441281383	Lord Ruin	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Luscious love story marred by who-dun-it	If you are looking for a book about the ultimate rake being tame, this is it - complete with several hot scenes that actually mean something in the context of the story.<br />The Duke of Cynnsyrr (a pun on Laurens's Cynsters?), one Ruan, is nicknamed Lord Ruin for his rakish ways.  Together with his friend Devon Carlisle, now Earl of Bracebridge, \\"Lord Ruin\\" has been cutting his way through many society marriages and more.<br />Lord Ruin aka Ruan aka Cynnsyrr [too many names] is however planning to start his nursey (i.e. get married and breed heirs for the title and estates), and naturally, he wants the most beautiful young lady around - one Emily Sinclair.  However, due to a somewhat convoluted set of circumstances, he ends up married to Emily's oldest (and only other unmarried) sister Anne Sinclair, a bespectacled and downtrodden bluestocking who is no beauty.  <br />The circumstances of their marriage are scandalous and do not portend well.  Ruan [as I shall call him] has seduced/ raped Anne, believing her to be a prostitute. Anne however was unconscious or semi-conscious during the incident, which in the legal system of the time, constituted grounds for declaring it a rape.  Ruan has no choice but to marry her (since as a rapist, he would be socially ruined); likewise Anne has no choice but to marry him since she might be pregnant.<br />The rest of the story flows from this incident.  To his great surprise, Ruan is sexually obssessed with his wife from the outset.  His bedding her starts out as efforts to satiate himself and then becomes efforts to involve her fully in the act.  These scenes are hot, even if the first scene might require a little suspension of disbelief.<br />Anne's feelings are mixed at best; she had no wish to marry Ruan, and she feels used at best during the earlier days of their marriage.  She did not trust Ruan before the marriage, and in fact, she was trying to prevent a marriage proposed between him and her sister Emily.  And to make things worse, she was attracted to his friend Devon (who had planned to marry her).<br />So what went wrong with this story?  To put it simply, apart from the confusing babble of names, there is a largely extraneous and bizarre suspense sub-plot involving virtually ever other character in the book.  Not only does that sub-plot not make sense (although it serves to show us that Ruan is a \\"serious\\" person behind his rakish facade), but it takes away time and space from the development of the relationships that do matter in the book - between Ruan and Anne (the protagonists), between Ruan and his friend Devon (who was in love with Anne); between Anne and her father (a truly bizarre relationship not explained well at all);  between Anne and her sisters; between Anne and the servants, and so on and so forth. <br />There are so many secondary characters introduced in the middle of the book that you practically need to write them all down - and worst, every other character bears a grudge against Anne or Ruan or some other character.<br />I believe this is the author's first book.  She certainly created an arresting couple in Ruan and Anne as the rake forced to marry a plain woman, and then changed by his marriage.  She created a interesting set of circumstances around them.  Unfortunately, in an effort to add in the mystery/suspense sub-plot, she also failed to develop many of the other characters and the circumstances of the first meeting well.  <br />There are several improbabilities (both historic and character-wise) in the plot, but this did not detract from a swift read.  What did detract was trying to keep track of all the names, and then figure out who was *not* involved in the climax to all that intrigue and suspense.  And I wish very much that Carolyn Jewel had settled on a name (and surname) conclusively for the hero.  It is hard to keep switching from Cynnsyr (the dukedom) to Ruan (the first name or the last?) to his nickname \\"Lord Ruin\\".  And why Cynnsyrr in particular (when there is also Devon and several other dedicated rakes) is nicknamed \\"Lord Ruin\\" remains a mystery to this reviewer.<br />Rating - 3.7 (barely rounded up to 4)	2003-02-02
US	50375720	RLG6KZLHOGGRH	0812539354	334322590	Strong as Death (Catherine Levendeur Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Believable hero and heroine, 12th century France and Spain	I discovered this series a while back, with the second book DEVIL'S DOOR (in which the hero and heroine are married, and in which one Walter de Grancy, later to play a part in THE DIFFICULT SAINT) also makes an appearance.  After reading the first two books, I wandered off to other series, notably those by Margaret Frazer (the Sister Frevisse series, set in England of the 1400s).  My love affair with medieval historical mysteries began with Ellis Peters, however, and in terms of the attitudes and the depth of historical research, Sharan Newman's series comes closest.  <br />STRONG AS DEATH is a later story, and *not* one I recommend that beginners to the series should start with. [Try the first book DEATH COMES AS EPIPHANY, or the second DEVIL'S DOOR].  However, this is a fascinating book in many ways, in that it sheds light not only on the complex Christian-Jewish relations existing in 12th century France, but also the further complications of the war against the Moors (or Saracens) in Spain.  <br />Strong as Death is one of those books that is a bit hard to evaluate.  As a depiction of a pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela (the shrine of St James, and one which continues to be one of the holiest pilgrimage shrines), this book is indeed masterly.  As a depiction of the married life of Edgar and Catherine (both with their own \\"baggage\\"), this book is also masterly.  I have never felt their love more, than when realizing that Edgar must conquer his fear of heights - which I share - and that Catherine must learn how to address this fear sensitively (when she is anything but afraid of climbing).  And the pilgrimage involves a trip through the Pyrenees, quite apart from any other adventures.<br />Where the book fails for me is is in the motivation of the murderer.  I am afraid that this was a little harder to believe in, although the reason for the crime became transparent to me shortly.  [The motivation was not such a shocker, as it was in DEVIL'S DOOR, for example].I also found the way in which the murderer and the final victim(s) confronted each other to be slightly less credible than I would have wished - although it was in keeping with the murderer's previous actions.<br />Nevertheless, for the beautiful descriptions of the pilgrimage journey alone, this book is a keeper, to be put up right next to Ellis Peter's THE VIRGIN IN THE ICE.  If you love this period - 12th century France and Spain - this book is highly recommended for its insights into the medieval mind and its vignettes of daily life. I look forward to more of Catherine LeVendeur.	2003-01-23
US	50375720	R1D5NXXAU4ATZO	0812539354	334322590	Strong as Death (Catherine Levendeur Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Believable hero and heroine, 12th century France and Spain	I discovered this series a while back, with the second book DEVIL'S DOOR (in which the hero and heroine are married, and in which one Walter de Grancy, later to play a part in THE DIFFICULT SAINT) also makes an appearance.  After reading the first two books, I wandered off to other series, notably those by Margaret Frazer (the Sister Frevisse series, set in England of the 1400s).  My love affair with medieval historical mysteries began with Ellis Peters, however, and in terms of the attitudes and the depth of historical research, Sharan Newman's series comes closest.  <br />STRONG AS DEATH is a later story, and *not* one I recommend that beginners to the series should start with. [Try the first book DEATH COMES AS EPIPHANY, or the second DEVIL'S DOOR].  However, this is a fascinating book in many ways, in that it sheds light not only on the complex Christian-Jewish relations existing in 12th century France, but also the further complications of the war against the Moors (or Saracens) in Spain.  <br />Strong as Death is one of those books that is a bit hard to evaluate.  As a depiction of a pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela (the shrine of St James, and one which continues to be one of the holiest pilgrimage shrines), this book is indeed masterly.  As a depiction of the married life of Edgar and Catherine (both with their own \\"baggage\\"), this book is also masterly.  I have never felt their love more, than when realizing that Edgar must conquer his fear of heights - which I share - and that Catherine must learn how to address this fear sensitively (when she is anything but afraid of climbing).  And the pilgrimage involves a trip through the Pyrenees, quite apart from any other adventures.<br />Where the book fails for me is is in the motivation of the murderer.  I am afraid that this was a little harder to believe in, although the reason for the crime became transparent to me shortly.  [The motivation was not such a shocker, as it was in DEVIL'S DOOR, for example].I also found the way in which the murderer and the final victim(s) confronted each other to be slightly less credible than I would have wished - although it was in keeping with the murderer's previous actions.<br />Nevertheless, for the beautiful descriptions of the pilgrimage journey alone, this book is a keeper, to be put up right next to Ellis Peter's THE VIRGIN IN THE ICE.  If you love this period - 12th century France and Spain - this book is highly recommended for its insights into the medieval mind and its vignettes of daily life. I look forward to more of Catherine LeVendeur.	2003-01-23
US	50375720	R3JF4VYQSVJAAB	0312093233	198843687	The Leopard Unleashed	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good, but I liked the first two books far more...	This is not really a review, but more of a very short summary of the plot. Renard, hero of this book (the third Chadwick novel and the third and last part of the Ravenstow trilogy, after The Wild Hunt and The Running Vixen) is the eldest surviving son of Guyon and Judith (hero and heroine of The Wild Hunt, the first Ravenstow novel). At the start of the book, he has been long betrothed to Eleanor de Mortimer, an heiress who has been raised by his parents, but he is a crusader in Antioch with Raymond of Provence (uncle of Eleanor of Aquitaine). <br />Renard is on Crusade partly because his father Guyon wants him out of the complicated English political situation (where the rival claimants Matilda and Stephen are battling for allegiance of the barons). He is obliged to return home to the Welsh Marches when his father's health begins to fail - and he brings along with him his dazzling mistress Olwen, a half-Welsh and half-native (Armenian Christian) dancing girl. Olwen has a mind of her own and her own ambitions which do not always help Renard. He is smitten by her charms, but not so much that he will keep her at the family's main seat Ravenstow in the face of his mother's disapproval and his forthcoming marriage to Eleanor (Nell).<br />Eleanor or Nell is a mixture of contradictions. She is in love with Renard, and has been since she was a child. However, she is not entirely comfortable with him, and her ways of showing her love are not well understood nor appreciated by him. Nell is a remarkable businesswoman with an understanding of the finer points of the wool trade, and it is this skill that allows her to meet her husband as a equal.<br />Against their marriage, we have the outbreak of war between Stephen and Matilda (grandchildren of the Conquerer, and thus kin to Renard), divisions within the Ravenstow family, and conflict with the powerful but unscrupulous Earl of Chester (whose wife Matille is a kinswoman of Renard). The Battle of Lincoln in 1141 is a turning point for Renard and Nell and the rest of their family.<br />I liked this story very much, especially the beginning which was set in Antioch. While the story of Renard and Nell's relationship was interesting, I was less engrossed by it compared to that of Judith and Guyon (in The Wild Hunt) or Adam and Heulwen (in The Running Vixen). I am not sure if this was because the political backstory was so much more compelling in the third book, or because this third couple lacked the spark between them that I spotted between Judith and Guyon, for example.<br />The story is set against the same events that form the backstory of the Brother Cadfael series (by Ellis Peters). Fans of this period will probably enjoy this book exceedingly.	2003-01-10
US	50375720	R2NLDB571HGU30	0754001830	204689629	The Unknown Ajax	Books	5	30	30	N	N	One of my favorite Heyer audio books...	This has to be one of the best Heyer-on-audio books that I have heard (so far, I have worked my way through Frederica and Cotillion several times, through These Old Shades once, through Regency Buck once, and through The Talisman Ring twice).  Daniel Philpott undertakes the challenging task of portraying the various voices and accents of Major Hugo Darracott, the despised new heir to his cantakerous and tyrannical grandfather Lord Darracott, and all the voices of those around him.<br />I was taken aback when I first heard Philpott, thinking that he could not possibly do the Yorkshire dialect justice.  A few minutes into his reading (well before the dialect and accent started) I was hooked.  It helps that this is one of my favorite Heyers where I love even the asides from the servants.  But Philpott shows us Hugo tripping up his hostile family neatly into his particular net, along with Lord Darracott, his several other descendants and daughters-in-law, Lt Ottershaw (the customs officer), and even the servants - Charles the footman, Grooby and the other valets, Chollacombe the butler, and Mrs Flitwick the housekeeper.  He manages to create a distinct &quot;voice&quot; for each character, and to make each one come alive in a way highly satisfying to me.<br />Highly recommended, particularly in this unabridged audio book version.	2002-12-18
US	50375720	R1JTT0BKDGILSK	0440211077	859877142	Keeper of the Dream	Books	4	28	32	N	N	A very good novel set on the Welsh border 1100s	I have a real weakness for this period and this region, ever since I fell in love with the world of Brother Cadfael (created by the late Ellis Peters). Recently I stumbled across a rather tattered copy of Keeper of the Dream, and thought the title sounded familiar (it was rated highly by All About Romance).<br />Penelope Williamson sets this hard-to-find novel in the Welsh Marches in the early years of Henry II. The story begins with the siege of a Welsh castle and the death of the heroine's brother at the hero's hand. Not a promising start, especially when it is followed up by the heroine Arianna (only daughter of Owen, Prince of Gwynedd or North Wales) trying to kill the hero Raine (or The Black Dragon), in return. Raine is the illegitimate son of the late Earl of Chester, and the half-brother of the present Earl who covets the castle for his own. They also have other points of dispute between them, notably the fact that Hugh married the woman whom Raine loved but could not marry.<br />This backdrop of sibling rivalry, the feelings of an unacknowledged (and very poorly treated) illegitimate son of one of the great power brokers, and the war between Henry II and the Welsh princes is what drives much of the story. There is also a mysterious young bard Taliesin who is not what he seems. Arianna initially hates Raine, even as she is forced to marry him (as part of a treaty of peace between her father and the English king). The intrigues of her younger brother and a cousin cause further problems for her relationship with her husband.<br />This novel features one or two scenes of heartbreak. We also learn about Raine's very unhappy childhood and youth through his memories as scried by Arianna. It is to Raine's credit that he has not allowed his treatment by others (who should have loved him) to warp him. Although he is very much a man of his times, he is also capable of compassion, warmth, friendship and loyalty. Arianna is passionate (but *not* feisty), fiercely loyalto her people and yet struggling to keep her marriage vows (where she should place her husband's interests above that of her kin). <br />My only quibble was that the background of Raine was not that well-developed. Why was his father so opposed to acknowledging his  son, and was his attitude typical? Why was Raine fighting - after such ill-treatment - for his illegitimate half-brother's forces? His position at the outset (whether he is vassal to the Earl of Chester, or to the King, or a mercenary) is not entirely clear.<br />In a historical note, Williamson points out that she took considerable liberties with the persons - while the prince and the earl existed, some other people did not. Owen had several children by his wife and concubines (Welsh law considered all acknowledged children to be legitimate, and thus the eldest acknowledged son need not be the eldest son born in wedlock). However, his daughters, if any, go unrecorded in history. The late Earl of Chester, AFAIK, had no illegitimate son named Raine. While he was known (and notorious) for switching sides as and when convenient, the character given to him by Williamson does not quite match historical accounts. These discrepancies are however a matter of artistic license in a historical romance.<br />If you like this book, you might want to try other stories set on the Welsh border. One of my favorites is Elizabeth Chadwick's The Wild Hunt (set several decades earlier in the reigns of William II and Henry I). Apart from a couple of Ellis Peters mysteries (One Corpse Too Many, and The Virgin in the Ice), this has to be the best book set on the Welsh marches that I have read. The Brother Cadfael novels are medieval mysteries set during the first English Civil War (Stephen and Matilda, 1140s), but several - including the two I have mentioned - feature a young couple. What I like about Peters is that the protagonists are very ordinary people, and that it is therefore considerably easier to believe in their existence.<br />Another \\"Welsh March\\" book is Roberta Gellis's Knight's Honor (featuring the Earl of Hereford in the reign of Stephen and Henry II); the Earl of Chester who is Williamson's hero's father is the father of the heroine in this book. The interested (with time to spare) might want to compare the portrayal of this historical figure in Gellis's romance versus Williamson's romance.<br />Penelope Williamson has also written several romances set in 19th century America. Although she is not a prolific author, all her settings are unique and carefully researched. You might want to try THE OUTSIDER, which has been highly recommended to me<br />NB:  Review slightly edited December 27, because Amazon's checking system objects to a synonym for illegitimate, commonly used in medieval times and medieval law.	2002-12-18
US	50375720	R2CUU0LE0WG5ZB	0373835396	928905497	Four In Hand	Books	2	16	24	N	N	Yawn!	Stephanie Laurens writes Regency historicals filled with sizzling sexy heroes out to pursue the heroine from the outset. Not my cup of tea, but at least I know the storyline.  Recently I tried some of her older traditional Regencies which have been republished by Harlequin.  If you are a Laurens completist (as in wanting her entire backlist) this is a good way to get them - although the style is very different.<br />I cannot say that I enjoyed this book.  I was reading a number of books with multiple romances lately, and this is by far the worst.  Not only did the idea of four beautiful (ravishingly beautiful) young sisters, of whom three are eighteen, nineteen and twenty (poor mother!) rather pall, but so did the idea of four rakes chasing these young women.  And the thought of a guardian and the guardian's brother and friends out to seduce (i.e. ruin) four young women of good family under the protection - legal and social - of one of them made me feel nauseous.  Caroline, the eldest sister, was too good to be true, and far too innocent.  If I want to read a guardian-ward traditional regency romance where I don't like the hero too much, I vastly prefer Heyer's Regency Buck.  At least, the heroine there was not perfect!<br />Unless you adore anything by Stephanie Laurens or you are really fond of books with several impossibly beautiful sisters in it, you might want to read another book by her (or any other author). Try her first Cynster book - Devil's Bride.  A much better read.	2002-12-04
US	50375720	R3RBEY32G5R44D	0440148790	644112073	The Loving Seasons	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Really outstanding in character development	Lately, I have been reading or re-reading books where there are more than one romances.  Among those read were many of Georgette Heyer's classics (some of which feature at least two romances) and Fiona Hill's The Stanbroke Girls.  I must have read The Loving Seasons a long time ago, because the plot (or elements of it) seemed very slightly familiar.  That did not stop me from enjoying a brilliantly constructed book.<br />The Loving Seasons is the story of three young schoolgirls in a Kensington seminary for young women, who are expecting to make their debuts.  One of them - Maggie - has been betrothed from the seminary itself by her father - as the winner of a wager into which he tricked a somewhat callow and insecure young baron.  The other two - Anne (daughter of a marquess) and Emma (niece of a lady of society but somewhat sticky reputation) - try and support Maggie as she marries almost literally from the seminary.  Emma is the boldest, and Maggie the shyest and most insecure.  Anne, with her large portion and her rank and connections, is expected to make a brilliant match, of course.<br />In the first season, we watch Maggie try to make the best of her marriage to young Lord Greenwood, even as her friend Emma nearly stumbles into social disaster by emulating her (married) aunt's manner of behavior.  Anne, the third friend, is slightly confused by the fact that she finds a man of no particular fortune or position and very moderate wealth rather attractive.  <br />In the second season, Maggie begins to achieve some happiness in her marriage, even as her husband starts to mature and realize life is different for a married man (compare his behavior, by the way, with that of the newly-married Sherry in Heyer's Friday's Child).  In the meantime, Emma questions not only her thinking and previous mode of behavior, but also the motives of two of her apparent suitors. During the second season, the focus is however on Anne and her friendships, as Maggie and Emma remain outside London.<br />In the third season, we see Maggie having achieved some happiness as a matron.  Anne makes a marriage for love and character, rather than for position and wealth.  And Emma?  Well, Emma makes some interesting decisions.  We also see relationships developing between a young artist and a man she has been observing across the street, and between Emma's aunt and her long-estranged husband.<br />I would have liked to have seen a bit more of Emma's aunt and her husband, and a bit more explained about Emma's position (compared to her aunt who apparently had a large dowry or portion).  But otherwise, this book was very nearly perfect.  It was not really a book filled with humor, and not light reading (coming in at nearly 400 closely-filled pages).  But if you like serious Regency romances, and you value the development of character and the changes that come about as a young woman matures and reassesses her thinking, you might like this book.  For lovers of multiple romances, this is potentially a great read.<br />In short, if you find some of the more recent Regency romances to be somewhat lacking in character development, try this book.  Elizabeth Neff Walker also published under Laura Matthews; her style is not to everyone's taste. For me, however, this book is a keeper.	2002-12-03
US	50375720	R23Q4SN8WZU8DS	0451150996	225011460	Gentle Conquest	Books	5	41	42	N	N	The best of Balogh's early Regencies.	While others prefer Red Rose, or The Wood Nymph, or The Trysting Place (among Mary Balogh's books published in or before 1990). I consider this book to be the best of her early traditional (or short) Regencies.  It stands up pretty well in comparison even to her middle-period Regencies (including such masterpieces as The Notorious Rake) and her late Regencies (including Snow Angel and The Temporary Wife).  <br />Gentle Conquest features a virgin hero.  Let us get that out of the way.  If you don't like the idea, you should probably avoid this book.  This is not a spoiler, because it is obvious from the start.  <br />The hero Ralph, Lord Chartley, is urged by his mother and aunt to marry so that he may \\"grow\\" into his position, inherited from his father.  Young Ralph is shy, gentle, diffident and completely unlikely his father or his younger brother.  Marriage, his mother, thinks will mature him - and also secure the succession.  [She however exhibits a decided preference for Ralph's younger brother Stanley].<br />Miss Georgiana Burton is told by her angry father, after yet another scrape, that she must accept Lord Chartley's marriage proposal and behave with decorum until the marriage.  If she does not - well, she can spend the rest of her life buried in the country. No balls, no parties, no new dresses.  So Georgiana, a definite hoyden used to getting her way, agrees to play the demure maiden.  And Ralph falls in love with her.<br />No, Ralph does not tumble to the truth.  He does think that his new bride has surprising depths of character, and if only she shared his interests, everything will be perfect.  Georgiana, originally miffed at the thought of being in the country, takes to life as a Countess both in the country and in town.  There are just a couple of problems.  One is Ralph's mother, now the Dowager Countess, who is used to getting her way and who makes her family dance attendance on her.  The more mature and married Georgiana is not sure how to deal with her.  The other problem?  Well, Ralph, you see, is a virgin hero.  And you can imagine the potential for disaster there, especially given Georgiana's character.<br />The situation is resolved with some unlikely help from Ralph's cousin Roger, Lord Beauchamp who is wooing Georgiana's prickly older sister Vera.  <br />A couple of things stop me from giving this book a perfect A, even though I have decided that this book is a keeper.  <br />Firstly, it is almost inconceivable that Ralph (or his relatives) would not have heard about Georgiana's reputation before their marriage.  No, she was not promiscuous, but she had a reputation for being somewhat wild (fast, in Regency speak).  Is it possible that no one on Ralph's side (barring his cousin Roger) would have learned of this before or even after the marriage?  <br />Secondly, the author employs the same trick used in her first book A Masked Deception, to bring the resolution of the conflict between Georgiana and Ralph about.  That resolution is more successful here, than in A Masked Deception for several reasons.  However, I have to admit that I found that I had to swallow my sense of the real to accept that.   <br />Also, since I liked the tone of the first half of the book (where we see both Ralph and Georgiana mature after their marriage), I found the second half a bit jarring. The first half reminded me strongly of Carla Kelly's books and heroes, the second half put a Kellyesque hero in a Balogh setting which felt odd. Although I liked the secondary romance between Vera and Roger, I wanted more of Ralph and Georgie.   <br />There were small errors with titles which Balogh does not usually make in her later books, but these were negligible.<br />This book is out-of-print and pretty expensive, but it is worth a read if you are fond of Balogh, or if your tastes run to character-driven quieter romances.   Keep in mind that GENTLE CONQUEST is not the typical Balogh;  the heroine is a Balogh heroine to a large degree,but the hero is most untypical for the usual Balogh hero.  The conflict that drives the story is not grand intrigue or petty jealousy and lack of trust, but rather the shyness and uncertainties between a newly married couple who do not know each other well.<br />Rating = A-<br />Note:  I am writing this review, along with one other (to be posted later) because I had long promised some people to share my impressions of these books.  In effect, this is an overdue review, which has not been polished up.	2002-11-26
US	50375720	RSE1W4QAQ38MR	0451207289	178033504	The Golden Feather (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Really good, not her usual work...	Of the four Amanda McCabe books I have read, this is easily the best.  The first two books - A Scandal in Venice and The Spanish Bride - - had interesting premises but fizzled half way through.  The third book - Lady Rogue - was simply awful (I picked it up mistaking it for the Errant Earl, her fourth work). I say that because there was a non-plot with absolutely no tension between the characters, and it made me hesitate before picking up this one.  <br />But do try The Golden Feather, McCabe's fifth book.  The heroine is a gaming house owner - a Mrs Archer.  [Those who know a bit about the late Georgian era will have a good laugh here].  She meets, in unexpected circumstances, a man who she had seen only once before in her gaming house.  Since &quot;Mrs Archer&quot; is trying to return to respectable life to give her young sister a chance at a good marriage eventually, she is naturally afraid that the man in question - Lord Lyndon - will find out her past and condemn both her and her sister for it.<br />This was a delightful character-driven book with an unusual heroine (a widow, who turns gaming house owner, turns respectable widow) and an almost equally unusual hero (a Black Sheep sent off to India by an irate father, who learns sobriety and maturity out there).  Add in a dissolute younger brother of the hero and a matchmaking and somewhat reckless younger sister - both lacking in fashion sense, or possessed of an unique fashion sense.  If Ms. McCabe can write like this in the future, I will definitely be writing more positive reviews.	2002-11-18
US	50375720	RN6L2VGZZ4FRI	0821764497	228664938	Lord St. Claire's Angel (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Very readable governess-aristocrat romance	This first book by Donna Simpson, an up-and-coming Canadian author with Zebra, is probably her best work to date although BELLE OF THE BALL (her fifth book, I believe) comes close.  Both feature unusual heroines and somewhat atypical plots.<br />This book features Celestine Simons, a governess with arthritis (since she had rheumatic fever as a child) who has been hired by Lord and Lady St Claire (actually the Marquess and Marchioness of Ladymead) precisely because she is plain, arthritic and otherwise unlikely to attract attention.  The Marchioness has been plagued by her brother-in-law Lord Justin St Claire (the Lord St Claire of the title), who has fallen into the habit of flirting with the pretty governesses of her two daughters.  This, the Marchioness (Lady Elizabeth St Claire or Lady St Claire in the book) does not like, both from the point of view of what is considered proper and also from the point of preserving class differences.<br />To spite his sister-in-law, Lord Justin St Claire decides to flirt with Miss Simons.  She will not respond to him, even though she is attracted by him.  Then, he hears her sing in the village choir, and the two experience a rare moment of epiphany in the journey back to the house.  Nevertheless, although our hero's feelings have changed about Miss Simons, his casual attitude towards flirtation and governesses have not changed (or he has not realized it).  Celestine's well-married aunt Lady Sedgely (Lady Emily Delafont or Lady Delafont in the book) arrives and this precipitates a number of changes. <br />I liked many many things about this book, even though it was far too short to flesh out all the characters.  We had the high-minded Marquess, in love with his extremely snobbish wife (whose behavior and attitudes were normal for her era and station).  We had the vicar's calculating attitudes.  We have the charming but imperfect (in many ways) children of the Marquess and Marchioness.  We have Lady Sedgley/Delafont, whose own history  is explored in Simpson's second book (LADY DELAFONT'S DILEMMA).  We are also introduced to Lady Grishelda May von Hoffen (heroine of Simpson's third book LADY MAY'S FOLLY).  <br />Since I am a lover of good secondary characterization, this book was a delight in many ways.  For example, I kept worrying about the mildly retarded younger daughter after I finished the book - and someday I would like to read a book about these two sisters.  Not all the secondary characters were well-rounded of course, but that is more a problem associated with the book length and its necessary constraints. <br />I did have one major problem with this book - the titles issue.  Simpson's first book showed off her strengths (great writing ability, marvellous primary and secondary characterization, an ability to write with emotion and yet restraint about sensitive issues), and they also showed her weakness for her early books - her lack of understanding of British titles and how they work.  [In fairness to the author, she has corrected her mistakes in subsequent books].  The problem with this book is that there are two Lord St Claires - the Marquess and his brother (the hero) - in this book, which leads to a misunderstanding at one point.  This was a slight flaw in an otherwise nearly-perfect book, because it was completely unbelievable that the housemaids would be calling both the Marquess and his brother by the same title.<BR>I should also add that the British did not recognize foreign titles, and Lady May von Hoffen would not be a real \\"Lady\\".  At best, she might be called Countess or Baroness socially but legally she would be a mere Miss in the UK.<br />I have tried not to write too many spoilers, but Celestine's arthritis and her love for her pupils - the two daughters of the Marquess and Marchioness - form the cornerstone of this story.  You might disagree with Celestine's actions which jeopardize her health, but they are understandable given the kind of person she was.  I hope that in later books, I come across this couple again and find out how they are doing and how well \\"Lady Elizabeth\\" is reconciled to their marriage.  I would also like to hear more about Celestine's background and that of her aunt.<br />Recommended, despite a minor flaw.<BR>Grade = 4.4 (A-) <BR>Breakdown = romance element graded at 4.8 (A+; 25%), writing at 4.7 (A; 25%), characterization (of protagonists and secondary characters) at 4.5 (A-; 25%), plot development at 4.2 (B+; 25%).  Average = 4.6.  Deduction of 0.2 for title confusion which affects the plot.	2002-10-23
US	50375720	RGWJTCPLRC9V3	0671578081	348946541	Komarr (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The good and the bad...	I started reading this series last month with Shards of Honor and Barrayar.   What a beginning!    If I have had any regrets about subsequent books, it is that Cordelia rarely appears in later books (until she is given a small but important role in A Civil Campaign, the last but one book published in this series).     <br />Those who are new to the series should stop right here. Please, please, go back. At the very least, start with Mirror Dance. Better still, go back to Shards of Honor (the story of how Miles's parents met). <br />Nearly all the books in this series (beginning in terms of internal chronology with Falling Free) are about a brilliant young aristocrat turned mercenary admiral, Miles Vorkosigan/ Naismith. What is different about him, apart from his uncanny luck, is his physical disabilities. Miles Vorkosigan (the \\"Vor\\" is a nobiliary honorific on his home planet, Barrayar) was born badly crippled and stunted, thanks to a poison gas attack on his pregnant mother. <br />At the beginning of his career, Miles manages to pull triumph out of disaster, bluffing his way through major crises. [Read The Warrior's Apprentice and The Vor Game for details]. He later undergoes a life-changing experience after meeting his clone, who has been created by his father's enemies. <br />In KOMARR, Miles has shed his old career and his Naismith identity to become an Imperial Auditor (a high-ranking investigator of sorts). This book combines Miles-as-investigator with Miles-as-suitor. Except that the romantic interest Ekaterin Vorsoisson [nee Vorvayne] is already a wife, although she is married to an immensely selfish and irresponsible man Etienne (Tien) Vorsoisson. In the past, Miles has attempted to persuade at least two serious prospects to marry him and become Lady (and in the future, Countess) Vorkosigan. Both ladies have declined, wanting nothing to do with Barrayar. In KOMARR, Miles meets and falls in love with a real Vor lady, a lady of the middle to low aristocracy from his own planet. I am not sure what this means - is Miles actually deeply Vor inside (despite his youthful shenanigans), or is he reconciled to the fact that only a Vor lady would be happy on Barrayar? In short, is Miles attracted to Ekaterin because she is available (by the end of the book), or would he be attracted to her even if his old loves were willing and able to settle down to Vorish life with him?<br />I cannot answer that question, but I hope it will be addressed in later books. The story that unfolds in the meantime combines an investigation of an apparent accident, the political intrigues on Komarr (where Miles's family name is reviled for historic reasons), and a slow but growing love story. We also see a lot of the story from Ekaterin's point of view, as a Vor wife committed to her culture. Considering her upbringing and Barrayaran law (also followed for the Vor on Komarr), her choices or lack of choices are understandable. She is not a wimp, just a woman struggling with very limited choices. She begins to come into her own (very fortuitously!) at the end, showing us hints of what might have attracted Miles to her in the first place. <br />I have mixed feelings about this book. I don't object to the sad marriage between Ekaterin and Tien (Etienne, her first husband). Like others, while I appreciated the fact that much of this book was written from Ekaterin's point of view, I felt that the book created too much of a stock pseudo-villain in her husband (who we are meant to hate instantly).  Adding a scene or two from his point of view might possibly have helped.  <br />My problem, apart from Tien's one-sided portrayal, is that the pacing is rather slow in this book. The investigation and crime aspect seems underdone, and what the crime implies for Barrayar has been glossed over. Why must the whole episode be kept a secret? Without an understanding of Barrayaran politics and relations with Komarr (and even then), this veil of secrecy makes no sense. <br />The romance between Miles and Ekaterin itself, such as it is, is not badly done but I felt something lacking.  Some of this might be inherent in the fact that Ekaterin is very much married for the first half of the book, and afterwards, it is impossible for several reasons for Miles to court her openly or secretly.<br />The Ekaterin of KOMARR is not yet the Ekaterin of A Civil Campaign (the next book).  Here, in some ways, Ekaterin is more vulnerable and yet oddly likeable.  She has been trapped here by the legal and social constraints upon her as a Barrayan wife and a Vor woman;  in the next book, some of those constraints will continue to operate.  In some ways, I liked the Ekaterin of Komarr far more than that of A Civil Campaign, perhaps because Miles himself (oddly muted in this book compared to his hyperactivity in the rest of the series) is far more vulnerable in this book.   As such, he evokes a different response in her.  It is certainly worth reading this book if only to read how other Barrayarans not well acquainted with the high Vor (aristocracy) view Miles Vorkosigan.<br />KOMARR was a pleasant read, but I really did not feel the pull, the compulsion to read and re-read, that I do with most of Bujold's books.  A new reader to this series might be somewhat puzzled by some obscure references to Komarran-Barrayaran history, not to mention Miles's own personal history.  I am not sure that this book stands alone very well.  As such, I rate this book at 3.8 stars, although the series as a whole rates about 4.5 stars.	2002-10-17
US	50375720	R1GQS37CLNH2Y8	0316770949	552223799	Rose Red and Snow White: A Grimms Fairy Tale	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Beautifully illustrated little-known fairy tale	I bought this about a year ago for a little girl, aged 5.  Her older sister (aged 8) also ended up loving it.  The story is a simple one - two young girls Snow White and Rose Red living deep in the woods give refuge to a bear. Later they encounter a dwarf who is consistently rude to them. They rescue him several times, but receive no thanks in return.  Much later, the bear shows up, kills the dwarf (who it turns out pull a spell on him). And lo - a handsome prince appears.  He and his brother marry Snow White and Rose Red.<br />The pictures in this book are beautifully drawn, with little details making the story come alive.  I was lucky enough to find this book on sale, but I think it would be worth adding to the library of a child loving fairy tales.	2002-10-01
US	50375720	R33DAJ2FJ4LZKK	0385181035	472408595	Madselin	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Nice break from the usual story set at the Conquest	This review is written from the perspective of a romance reader (and an occasional dabbler into historical fiction of an earlier or later period).  MADSELIN is a short but detail-packed book about a rather spoiled young woman who finds herself widowed, homeless and of no account when the Normans come to take possession of her rather isolated part of England.  She grows from a sheltered and rather spoiled young woman into a woman who cares for her new husband's serfs and attempts to rescue a childhood friend and lover.  <br />Madselin is not perfect.  She remains inactive at many crucial moments, failing to warn her new husband of problems that are developing in the estate (although she does act from time to time).  Here is no super-heroine on the model so often seen in medieval romances, with modern attitudes.  Madselin's thoughts and concerns are are mostly about herself, and not those who have been killed nor those who remain.  But she is not an unkind woman, just one who is slow to mature.  <br />Part of her problem is that she is distrusted both by her husband's followers (as a Saxon) and by her first husband's people (as someone who has married a Norman willingly).  This theme of falling between two worlds is rather interesting.  How much does one adjust, and in what ways does Madselin gain and yet lose? <br />The real interest in this story lies not in the romance between Madselin and her second husband  (of which there is precious little, although there is growing trust and support on his part), but in the details of how the Saxons take or do not take to Norman conquest.  Through the changes on this rather impoverished estate, we also see some of the problems faced by the more humane Norman lords who are not only imposing a foreign rule but also moving from the freer Anglo-Saxon society to rigid feudalism.  Rolf is torn between the requirements of the King (that he build a castle) and the fact that all the estate resources are being poured into this same castle with all the problems that this entails for the future.   <br />Unfortunately, not all the characters are fleshed out in detail.  We learn very little about Madselin's family (apart from her royally descended mother and her late elder sister) and we do not learn how she fitted into Saxon society.  We learn even less about Rolf, except that he had a brutish father and he was not a knight.  Rolf is however the King's Armourer and as such, has special privileges.  Some of the secondary characters - the fearful and aged priest Alfled, the sullen waiting woman Hild, and a few of the peasants (now serfs) - are well fleshed-out.  The others are less so - including Britt Four Ox, whose fortunes decline steadily through the novel.  <br />All in all, this is a well-written look at England in the time of the Conquest, and how one small isolated estate adjusts to the Normans.   The first half was much stronger than the second half, but the plot held together reasonably well and there was sufficient depth in characterization to make the story readable if not memorable.<br />Graded = B- (3.8)<BR>Breakdown = historical element graded at 4.5 (A-, 20%);  romance element graded at 2.6 (D; 20%), writing at 4.0 (B+; 20%), characterization (of protagonists and secondary characters) at 3.5 (B-; 20%), plot development at 4.2 (B+; 20%). <br />[Written September 30, 2002]	2002-09-30
US	50375720	R3I04JC500E7IG	0380979012	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very readable non-Miles book	I tried two of Bujold's non-Miles books in succession.  THE SPIRIT RING was frankly a disappointment (a decent yarn, but nothing more).  This book on the other hand was amazing, and I rushed through it on a sunny Saturday afternoon.  Instead of having a romantic young hero, we have a tired, physically and spiritually damaged hero who has walked to his old employer's house.  Instead of a beautiful princess who falls for this hero, we have - well, there is a beautiful princess, but there is nothing romantic going on between her and Cazaril.<br />This story combines something of the atmosphere of feudal court intrigues, the pathos of a doomed house, the quest of the hero Cazaril, and a damsel in distress (from the old fairy tales).  There is even some action - when Cazaril must journey forth on a mission to save his lady from unspoken evils.  Add to this some wit, no loose hanging plot threads (everything that has happened to Cazaril makes sense by the end), well-fleshed-out characters, and you have a great read. My only problems were that some of the real or seeming insanity and attendant court intrigues in the Royal House seemed a trifle overdone (and made me feel rather queasy). I am looking forward to the sequel, even as I continue to read forward in the Miles Vorkosigan series.<br />Grade = A-<br />[Written September 30, 2002]	2002-09-30
US	50375720	RP7G107C7ECDB	0380790947	986179021	The Passion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Weird, disturbing, a one-time read with messages...	The quick summary - a human heroine (Tessa) tries to infiltrate and then assassinate a powerful handsome werewolf (Alexander) whom she blames for her father's death.  She is not punished for her failed attempt, but forms a close friendship and eventually falls in love (distinctly one-sided) with this man.  He however ends up marrying another woman (Elise), the queen of the werewolves - after fighting off a plot (or several plots) conjured by his brother, a human-hating werewolf (Denis).  The Alexander-Elise courtship and a serious assassination attempt (by Denis) shatter Tessa's beliefs about her special relationship with Alexander, her position vis-a-vis the werewolves, and the consequences will eventually destroy her life.  <br />This was not a read that flowed smoothly for me.  At every crucial moment, I had to stop and ask myself whether the author was asking us to take the werewolves at their face worth (what they believed about themselves) or whether she was actually suggesting something which undermined werewolf beliefs about themselves.  I came to the conclusion that this was the latter.<br />Yes, for people not used to blatant statements of superiority by a non-human race, this book is pretty disturbing.  [The sequel, THE PROMISE, is even more disturbing].  This is not your standard werewolf or vampire horror/romance;  it is not even a romance in the conventional sense (in many senses, starting with the lack of a Happily Ever After ending).  I was fascinated and yet repelled by the \\"villain\\" Denis who may in fact be the hero of this book.  [No spoilers, but his actions, especially for the second half, have considerable significance down the road].  <br />What I liked about this book were the parts set in Russia and Alaska.  The part where we had werewolves living in Paris (and the rest of France) among humans was interesting but less compelling.  Denis is in his element in Russia and Alaska, but out-of-place AND surrounded by enemies in France.  Tessa is out of her element both in France and in Alaska, but she does not know this when she is living with Alexander.  <br />While this was an interesting read, this was not quite the compelling read I had expected.  There were some lyrical passages (often connected with the physical setting), but for an equally thought-provoking (and shorter) read about werewolves, I would recommend the author's earlier books - WOLF IN WAITING (as Rebecca Flanders) and its sequel SHADOW OF THE WOLF.	2002-09-30
US	50375720	R2R63KCQ8M3666	1583143521	136424845	In An Instant (Arabesque)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	A so-so read	After reading Candice Poarch's Bargains of the Heart, I have been picking out the odd BET romance (Arabesque line).  This was the third book I tried.  The premise was interesting - a young woman who believes that she will marry a man whom she has been dating for years discovers that he is a creep.  She is loath to trust men again and to date again.  Enter a man who is instantly attracted to her.  Can Tara believe in his honesty, his love, and above all, in her ability to love and trust again?<br />This would have been a very interesting read (over-enthusiastic and nosy co-workers included) but for two things.  Firstly, Tara was far too quick to accept the rat of an ex-boyfriend/fiance back into her life, and even quicker to accept his word.  [Agreed, she had issues with trust, and Darren had kept this from her.  But still....].  Why and how does a supposedly intelligent heroine allow someone to come back into her life who has led her on, then dumped her (without letting her know) to become engaged to his boss's daughter? At this point, I ratcheted the book down from a B to a C+.<br />Secondly, while the stalking sub-plot (for Tara's cousin) was interesting and chilling, it rather detracted my attention from the romance.  I understand that the author wanted to set up a sequel for the heroine's cousin, but the sub-plot threatened to take away this reader's attention far too much.  I deducted another third of a grade.<br />Finally, although the co-workers are interesting, there is no sense of local community, of the heroine's other interactions, that made BARGAINS OF THE HEART such a great read.  If you are looking for a good romance about African-American couples, try that book instead.  Another good read in the Arabesque line was Roberta Gayle's COMING HOME.<br />Grade = C	2002-09-25
US	50375720	R3PU957505YNWJ	0449215954	2041120	Escapade	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Funny story of a cross-Channel flight in a balloon	[This is a draft review]<br />Escapade really starts in Calais, France and ends up near Canterbury, England.  The ending was too burlesque for me to rate this very highly, but the beginning and middle were superb.  Maria, Lady Carleton, the childless widow of a much older man (one of her father's friends, of course) is walking her sister-in-law's obese dog when she spots a balloon ascension about to take place.  Believing that the balloonist is Madame Blanchard (widow of a famous balloonist), she draws closer hoping to see the lady.  Instead, when the dog is tossed into the basket with an inebriated English gentleman, she climbs in to rescue the dog - and finds to her dismay that the gentleman's friends have let the balloon loose.  The ill-assorted and woefully unprepared party of three - a gentleman, a lady, and a dog - are floating across the Channel.<br />There is a prequel to this of course.  The hero has fled England, after being named in the memoirs of a notorious courtesan.  He is thus not the best person with whom to be marooned (inflight, as it were).  When the couple make land (at the Cliffs of Dover!), they end up at an inn with no money.  Enter an inquisitive and possibly blackmailing journalist, enter old acquaintances of the hero.  The couple flee the inn for one of the hero's smaller estates. So far, so good.<br />Unfortunately, once the couple arrived at the estate, things took a turn for the worse (in more ways than one).  Firstly, Maria discovers a child being mistreated by his uncle at the estate, and intervenes decisively.  Secondly, the hero's fiance shows up with her cousin (who loves her) believing him to be dead and intent on purloining the best portrait of him.  Thirdly, the hero's friend (the one who arrived at the inn) shows up, needing money as usual.  And then the blackmailing journalist also arrives, completing the party - no wait, the hero's fiancee's father also arrives.  <br />The last part of the book was a bit too much.  It is truethat everyone believes that the hero drowned in the Channel, but the antics of the hero in the last part reminded me more of a burlesque or a farce, than of the wry tone in the first two-thirds of the book.  I did appreciate the companionship between the young child and the overfed dog, and the loyalty of the incredibly patient servants.  But the ending did not quite satisfy me, nor did the reasons why the hero fled England make a lot of sense to me.  <br />Grade = B-	2002-09-22
US	50375720	R2NRHMVDUV5UMW	0449216705	812635079	Georgiana	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Heroine put me off at the outset...	Georgiana and her twin brother are in London - she to make her come-out with money furnished by an estranged maternal grandmother;  he throwing up his university studies to come and join the glittering social life in London.  When her brother gets into trouble (first by losing a very large sum of money that he does not have, and second by insulting a peer, and thus being challenged to a duel), Georgiana bails him out with her dress allowance - and by shooting the gentleman who called her brother out.  Fortunately for her, she is not arrested and nor does Lord Garth die or fall ill.  [The duel is subsequently called off by Garth].<br />At her come-out ball, she is reduced to wearing a hand-me-down from her cousin that does not suit her at all.  Lord Garth nevertheless brings her into fashion by dancing with her twice - at the request of his uncle, a long-time admirer of Georgy's grandmother.  When Georgiana gets into another scrape (being compromised by Lord Garth at Vauxhall), she is expected to marry him by everyone.  She bolts home instead - where she is courted by her father's new curate - a smarmy version of Mr Collins (from Austen's Pride and Prejudice).<br />Georgy then goes to visit her grandmother who lives near Manchester.  Here she discovers not only Lord Garth, but her brother who are apparently wooing the same young lady (granddaughter maternally of a rich industrialist).  The story encompasses the notorious Peterloo massacre in 1819, where Georgy is saved from the constabulary by Lord Garth.  Things turn out happily when her brother elopes with the young heiress, and Lord Garth renews his proposals [Well, Georgy does get disinherited in favor of her brother].<br />This was a perfectly decent plot, but I frankly hated the heroine from the moment she chose to shoot the unarmed hero (to stop him duelling with her brother - why not shoot her brother instead?).  For much of the book, she did not admit to herself or anyone that she had done something morallyreprehensible (and a crime too).  I am also not fond of heroines who bail out good-for-nothing brothers.  If neither of these trouble you, you will enjoy this book far more than I did.  <br />Grade = C	2002-09-22
US	50375720	RI2ZRGMZUUKRS	070895314X	180973577	Rosamund (LIN) (Linford Romance Library)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Appeals more to YA readers...	I read Julia Murray's A PERFECT MATCH in my teens and still retain a fond memory of that book.  Thinking of books that I had loved in that period, I ordered two books by Julia Murray published initially as Masquerade Historical Romances (from Mills & Boons) and now being republished in large print.<br />If you are in any way a Regency purist, or you care at all for a credible plot, avoid this book. While I read to escape from reality a bit, I still like my \\"fantasy world\\" to make some sense.  I allow more leeway to SFF than to Regency romance, for obvious reasons.  In Regency romances, I like heroes and heroines to behave in some way that makes sense and in a way that conforms to the expectations and limitations of that era.  If they don't, I want a good explanation.<br />We have in this book, a set of fraternal twins - Rosamund and her spoiled-rotten twin brother - who have taken to robbing coaches for amusement.  [Yes, that is right].  And they do so within five miles of their home.  And afterwards, Rosamund can go to a local inn and pretend to be a barmaid.  Does no one think there is something wrong here - that someone would be bound to recognize either of the twins or their horse?  <br />The best part of this book was the character of the hero, a middle-aged baronet who has settled into conventional ways and has the reputation of a high stickler.  Since Rosamund's father (an earl) believes that he can promote a match between his daughter and Sir Hugh, the latter arrives at the estate, but is waylaid by Rosamund and company.  Sir Hugh guesses the truth eventually, and shakes off his conventionality - even embarking on a bit of highway robbery himself to rescue his lady love at one point.  [This book however is *not* The Masqueraders].<br />If Sir Hugh was the high point, the brother (whose name I have already forgotten) is the low point.  Amazingly, he is redeemed at the end by a near-death experience and the love of a good woman, but through the book, his actions were so selfish and so self-centered, that I had no patience with it.  It may have been my luck that I encountered him in a long line of spoiled twin (and non-twin) brothers of Regency heroines.  The Viscount nevertheless almost wins out in this sorry list by the depth of his disregard for his sister's life, health and reputation.<br />Avoid unless you are fond of wildly unrealistic plots, however well-written.<br />Grade = D (2.1)<br />Breakdown = plot development F (1.5); character development D (2.0; 3.5 for Sir Hugh);  romance F (1.5);  writing C+ (3.2).	2002-09-19
US	50375720	R1AF6P0YAFPXBE	0449500705	272600581	The Nomad Harp (A Regency Love Story)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of Laura Matthews's best...	Sea captain Philip Hobart has succeeded to his cousin's title, and expects to be busy restoring the depredations made by the late viscount.  He has therefore given up his naval career.  This however is not appreciated by his fiancee Miss Glenna Forbes, who is too used to her independence, and who chose Captain Hobart precisely because of his expected long absences when she could run her own life.  Neither Hobart nor Miss Forbes loved the other - he wanted a home and children, and was attracted by her playing of the harp;  she wanted to please her ailing father (anxious at the thought that she would be left alone and virtually penniless) and to have a husband who would trouble her as little as possible.  She is therefore furious when he gives up his career without consulting her (an unusual attitude by the way for a Regency era lady).  Added to this pre-marital disharmony are the machinations of Philip's aunt the Dowager Viscountess who despises so paltry a match for her nephew, and who is determined to marry Philip off to her niece and thus preserve her own influence.<br />The best parts of this book are the long middle where the couple are separated, having broken off their engagement.  Philip gets involved with a well-bred but otherwise highly unsuitable lady, and is trapped by convention into an engagement.  Glenna is provided with a home and ostensible occupation by Philip when her father dies.  She turns a ceremonial position into one of real influence, when she sets about renovating and repairing an old house and improve the revenues from a small estate.  She also rejects a proposal from a former suitor, realizing that she prefers the country to a glittering social life.<br />Glenna's harp is the nomad harp, being transported all over the country as Glenna moves from house (and estate) to house, staying with friends, relatives and then finding a job as a housekeeper for a misogynist MP.  <br />After a bout of unsatisfactory regencies, it was a delight to readthis one, where we see the effects of false pride and hasty decisions from start to finish.   The plot summary provided here is deceptive, but this is a book for those tired of the usual London and Almack's.  If you wondered just how those lords obtained their revenues and how those estates operated, try this book.<br />Grade = B+ (4.2)<br />Breakdown = plot development B+ (4.2);  character development A- (4.5);  romance B (3.8); writing A- (4.4)<BR>[Written September 19, 2002]	2002-09-19
US	50375720	R2RDOMQTAL9WTJ	0451148096	485937219	The Proud Viscount	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Great premise peters out.... spoilers follow.	This book was not what the first chapter had promised.  Lady Jane Barlow (seen in the prequel A HOLIDAY IN BATH) has been in love with the Viscount Rossmere who loves her.  Unfortunately, he suffers from periodic fits of madness, which is hereditary.  The couple have therefore postponed matrimony, with Lady Jane hoping to marry her love when she is past child-bearing age.  Unfortunately for her, Richard dies from a fall from his horse - leaving all his unentailed fortune to her by his will, and very little (apart from the horse) to his cousin and heir the new Viscount Rossmere.<br />Rossmere has inherited very little from his gambler father.  He is too proud to marry for money (unlike many other peers), and too proud to ask for more money than necessary from his godmother who just happens to be Lady Jane's aunt.  Lady Mabel is herself actively trying to promote a marriage between her niece and her godson, arguing that being a spinster aunt is not all that desirable, that Rossmere needs the money that was left to Jane, and (implicitly) that Jane should hand over the money to Richard's blood heir.  [At this point, I began to feel very strongly for Jane!].<br />Lady Jane is not interested in marriage.  She is still mourning her dead fiance.  His cousin and heir has shown his lack of sensitivity by bringing and riding the very horse on which Richard had his accident.  And he is a proud and disagreeable man, unwilling to accept any financial help from her.  And Jane has one other reason - her younger sister Nancy appears to be not-so-happy in her marriage to a gentleman lately from Yorkshire.  Rossmere makes little effort to court Jane, preferring to woo a lady of dubious virtue who appears to have followed him down from London.  Madeline Fulton is however his type of woman, and Lady Jane exemplifies the meek and well-bred type that leaves him cold.<br />How then can a romance between these two disparate people proceed?  I kept wondering that.  Rossmere shows his mettlewhen he rescues Nancy from a very bad marriage (this sub-plot by the way is distinctly Gothic).  But his relationship with Lady Jane - who eventually marries him - goes from bad to worse.  It is not the financial situation that troubles them so much - Lady Jane's money (inherited from the late Viscount mostly) is placed in trust for their children.  Rather, it is Lady Jane's expectations of marriage.  And it is this - coupled with her rather unusual premarital experience - that Rossmere cannot deal with.  <br />I have to say that I found the subplot a little unrealistic (we are to believe that Lady Jane's father failed to secure his daughter's dowry *outside* her husband's control).  I found Lady Jane's expectations however even more unrealistic.  It was not just her premarital experience that I found a little unusual (we are to believe that she and Richard enjoyed everything short of consummation).   Why did she agree to marry Rossmere in the first place?   And did she really expect a highly reluctant husband to meet the same emotional and physical needs that her much-loved fiance had?    Rossmere's excessive pride also made no sense, nor did it appeal to me.  <br />Give me Jenny Chawleigh and Adam Deveril (in Heyer's A Civil Contract) instead - there is a loveless marriage of convenience that develops into mutual affection, and where we actually see the hero's pride being abandoned as he sees how he has hurt his wife.  <br />Grade = D+ (2.5)<BR>Breakdown = plot development C (3.0); character development D (2.2); romance F (1.6);  writing B- (3.4)	2002-09-18
US	50375720	R15IAIYR7K42W7	0451148096	485937219	The Proud Viscount	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Great premise peters out.... spoilers follow.	This book was not what the first chapter had promised. Lady Jane Barlow (seen in the prequel A HOLIDAY IN BATH) has been in love with the Viscount Rossmere who loves her. Unfortunately, he suffers from periodic fits of madness, which is hereditary. The couple have therefore postponed matrimony, with Lady Jane hoping to marry her love when she is past child-bearing age. <br />Unfortunately for her, Richard dies from a fall from his horse - leaving all his unentailed fortune to her by his will, and very little (apart from the horse) to his cousin and heir the new Viscount Rossmere.<br />Rossmere has inherited very little from his gambler father. He is too proud to marry for money (unlike many other peers), and too proud to ask for more money than necessary from his godmother who just happens to be Lady Jane's aunt. Lady Mabel is herself actively trying to promote a marriage between her niece and her godson, arguing that being a spinster aunt is not all that desirable, that Rossmere needs the money that was left to Jane, and (implicitly) that Jane should hand over the money to Richard's blood heir. [At this point, I began to feel very strongly for Jane!].<br />Lady Jane is not interested in marriage. She is still mourning her dead fiance. His cousin and heir has shown his lack of sensitivity by bringing and riding the very horse on which Richard had his accident. And he is a proud and disagreeable man, unwilling to accept any financial help from her. And Jane has one other reason - her younger sister Nancy appears to be not-so-happy in her marriage to a gentleman lately from Yorkshire. Rossmere makes little effort to court Jane, preferring to woo a lady of dubious virtue who appears to have followed him down from London. Madeline Fulton is however his type of woman, and Lady Jane exemplifies the meek and well-bred type that leaves him cold.<br />How then can a romance between these two disparate people proceed? I kept wondering that. Rossmere shows his mettle when he rescues Jane's youngest sister Nancy from a very bad marriage (this sub-plot by the way is distinctly Gothic).   In doing so, he brings Jane and himself closer, and also suggests a reason for marriage that is acceptable to his pride and her necessity.  But at this time, neither appears to love the other.<br />I have to say that I found the subplot regarding Nancy a little unrealistic.  Lady Jane's father - an man steeped in antiquity and also a strong believer in the traditional place of woman - not only failed to secure Nancy's dowry *outside* her husband's control, but also made no enquiries about his future son-in-law.  This was not totally unbelievable, but this was not the impression I had gained from his previous dealings with his elder daughter nor his treatment of Richard.  If this had been developed a bit more, it would have been more credible.<br />Jane and Rossmere marry principally to protect Nancy from her husband.  This made sense to me, although the subsequent realization that they were in love did not make sense.  There were few indications that Jane was in love with Rossmere, and it seemed that she confused sexual desire mingled with gratitude for love.  Rossmere's excessive pride did not appeal to me.   Nor did all the stress on his pride and his poverty allow room for him to get to know Jane.  Most of the book dealt with the Nancy subplot, which meant that very little space was left for the romance.<br />Give me Jenny Chawleigh and Adam Deveril (in Heyer's A Civil Contract) instead - there is a loveless marriage of convenience that develops into mutual affection over time.   We see the hero's pride in his home transformed over time, and we see his hurt that he must marry for money gradually abandoned.  I saw no such process with Rossmere.<br />This was a fascinating look at a highly dysfunctional family (or two or three such families), and the problems experienced by a young woman who married unwisely.   It was not a romance.<br />Grade = D+ (2.6)<br />Breakdown = plot development C- (2.8); character development C- (2.8); romance F (1.6); writing B- (3.4)	2002-09-18
US	50375720	R3VX0OWDC2FALI	0754000060	90708502	Frederica	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Review of Clifford Norgate's reading of Frederica	...  One of the joys in listening to a good reading of a favorite book is picking up on details that you had skimmed over and half-forgotten.  <br />I have so far heard Clifford Norgate's version of Frederica, and other actors's readings of COTILLION and REGENCY BUCK.  It was interesting contrasting how a woman (Phyllida Nash) reads a man's part in Cotillion, versus how a man (Clifford Norgate) reads a woman's part in Frederica.  I have to say that I prefer the former to the latter.  <br />Nevertheless, this is a very good reading.  Alverstoke, with his deep voice, and Charles with his lighter voice, and Charis with her die-away feathery voice all come across brilliant as do the \\"ailing\\" Lucretia.  Minor characters are also done very well, as is the more \\"normal\\" voice adopted for the narrator.  Where the tape did not work quite so well for me in imagining Frederica.  However, the dialogue was so funny that I forgave Mr Norgate his inability to completely evoke one of my favorite heroines.	2002-09-18
US	50375720	R2U7YNU0JLDAD	0094657009	165391805	The Spencers of Althorp	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best book on the Spencers of Althorp...	Even though this book is long out-of-print and does not cover the more recent history (as in after the book was written), this is still the best history of the family that is currently out there.  Check university libraries and large public libraries for a copy.  The 3rd Earl (a Whig reformer) was a fascinating man, and his father the 2nd Earl (also politically prominent) was a fascinating man with a difficult wife and controversial sisters (Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire and Henrietta or Harriet, Countess of Bessborough).  <br />The book touches lightly but deftly on the marriages of earlier and later Spencer daughters who were married off to the family's advantage but not necessarily their personal happiness.  Here, you will find not only the sisters of the 2nd Earl, but two earlier Diana Spencers - one the granddaughter of the 1st Duke of Marlborough who was wooed by Frederick Prince of Wales (father of George III) and the other who fled an unhappy marriage with her lover and was consequently ostracized by her brother the Duke.  There is also Sarah, Lady Lyttleton (governess to Queen Victoria's children);  a Spencer male who became a Roman Catholic priest, and other interesting scions of the family.  The book cannot do justice to everything, but it does convey a vivid picture of the earlier Spencers from 1600 to 1900.	2002-09-16
US	50375720	R234KT7774TPBI	0786001321	570593831	Shimmering Splendor	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Faithful to myth, but not as satisfying as a romance...	This is Bk 2 of the Greek myth series that Gellis has been rewriting (for a list, see my review of Dazzling Brightness or my list &quot;Gellis's Greek Myths&quot;).  Shimmering Splendor is the story of Eros (or Cupid) and Psyche, and how Psyche became Eros's bride.  While this was a fascinating read in some respects and the transformation of Psyche through the book is very credible, I found this book unsatisfying in some respects.<br />For one thing, I have always had problems with the way in which Psyche is made to pay over and over for her curiosity about Eros/ Cupid's appearance.  Like other reviewers, I was struck by some of the parallels with Beauty and the Beast - from the fact that Psyche is condemned to be the bride of a monster because of her father's foolishness to the fact that her sisters are jealous of her good fortune.  <br />However - I had problems firstly with the whole set-up as to why Psyche was rejected by Aphrodite's priest.  Supposedly, she hated Beauty and Love.  There is no explanation why.  My guess is that she distrusted Beauty and Love after seeing the way that people reacted to her as she grew into a beauty from a plain child.  But this is not addressed in the book.  I also had questions, like others, about Eros's origins and why he had been condemned by the other Olympians with so dreadful a curse.  His relationship to Aphrodite was also highly ambiguous, and she behaved more like a spurned ex-lover than as a friend and as a partner.  Knowing a bit more about Eros's background would have helped.<br />I did like the way in which Gellis retold the way in which Pysche broke Eros's disguise, although I could not understand the nature of her Gift.  She apparently possessed the ability to do Magic, but she had shut off her ability to tap power within her through fear or ignorance.  Again, an explanation would have helped here.<br />At the end of the book I was hesitating between a 3 and a 4.  I finally settled for a 3.9 (rounded up to a 4).  The low grade reflects my frustrations about Eros's background, Psyche's abilities and curse, and about their romance which seems decidedly one-sided at different times.<br />A final note - there are hints as to what will happen in BULL GOD (the story of Dionysus and Ariadne, and Theseus and the Minotaur) and a neat rounding-up of the mother-daughter relationship in Dazzling Brightness.<br />[written September 16, 2002]	2002-09-16
US	50375720	R339VC6HNOUYDA	0786000236	160267935	Dazzling Brightness	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Bk 1 in the Greek myth series	This is the story of Persephone (born Kore, daughter of Demeter) and Hades (brother of Zeus and Poseidon).  Gellis wrote three books that are interrelated - Dazzling Brightness, Shimmering Splendor, and Enchanted Fire, and followed them up with others - Bull God, and Thrice Bound.  Hint - try to read them in order, because some references in later books make more sense.  <br />Dazzling Brightness is a retelling of the Hades-Persephone myth.  I read this along with Shimmering Splendor last weekend.  Frankly, I enjoyed the first book far more.  We see the transformation of Kore, the sheltered daughter of the Corn Goddess, into the powerful goddess Persephone.  We also see the interaction of Olympian rivalries most vividly in this book - Zeus versus Poseidon, Poseidon versus Hades, Demeter versus Zeus and Hades.   For me, the love story in this book also worked most compellingly.  I could believe in Persephone falling in love with Hades, as he taught her the full extent of her powers *and* allowed her to use them without asking anything in return.  By the end, when Hades and Persephone come to terms with her mother Demeter, I could believe that this was a couple that was truly in love, and that they fully deserved each other.  [Neither was perfect of course - Hades is jealous at one time, and so is Persephone.  But that's life and love].<br />It helps if you know a bit about the Persephone myth.  In this book, Gellis stays true to the myth more or less, but changes the nature of the Olympians who are powerful mages and long-lived beings, but are not Immortals.  Nor is the Underworld what it first appears to be.  The story of Hades and Persephone's first journey through the underworld was compelling reading.<br />[written September 16, 2002]	2002-09-16
US	50375720	R4BBHVFCR19VE	0380704161	409225574	Through a Glass Darkly	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Very disappointing as "big novel" set in early Georgian era	I bought this book hoping to obtain a portrait of the Georgian age, a compelling study of a family struggling to survive political intrigues and economic upheaval, and lastly, as a satisfactory romance.  Well, this book did not work for me on any of these levels.  The story is set around the failed Jacobite rebellion of 1715 (which forces the heroine's father into exile), the accession of the Hanoverians to the British throne, and lastly but not leastly, the almost concurrent economic crises in France (Law's bank) and the UK (the South Sea Bubble).   The last event played a crucial role in the story, and was well-done.  Unfortunately, the rest of the period was *not* so well-evoked.  <br />Part of the problem lay in the fact that so much of the story was set at the corrupt French court (the regency of the Duc d'Orleans for the young Louis XV), that more of French court intrigue - mostly sexual - was evoked than of British political, economic, and social life.  However, the real problem probably lay in the heroine - who is a willful spoiled girl of 15 who has her bridegroom essentially bought for her by her doting grandmother.  Barbara Alderley is not all that bad - she is a loving sister (to a wastrel eldest brother and younger siblings) and she is a fond granddaughter.  She has suffered from negligent parents who married too young - a Jacobite father who has fled into exile, and a notoriously promiscuous mother (who like Barbara insisted on an early marriage that was a personal disaster).  Unfortunately, neither of the marriages ring very true for the period.  In the late 1600s and early 1700s, although there were doting parents, marriages were contracted strictly for financial and political reasons, as dynastic and familial alliances rather than love marriages.  There were notable exceptions, but this part of the plot is not addressed very well.  Barbara's grandmother and late grandfather are presented almost as copies of the 1st Duke and Duchess of Marlborough.The real Duke and Duchess of Marlborough are curiously absent.<br />Some of the political luminaries of the day appear (notably Sir Robert Walpole) but are presented almost solely in terms of their relationship to Barbara's mother or her husband, not as personages in their own right with their own careers to make and dynasties to found.<br />Most of the story is about extra-marital sexual liaisions.  When Barbara is betrayed by her husband and when she experiences another devastating loss, she does not seek consolation in  educating herself or in .  Rather, she becomes a duplicate of her mother, taking lovers recklessly - rather like the notorious court favorites of the Restoration period.  Despite her infidelities (and despite her husband's infidelity), the couple supposedly remain in love until the very end.  How and why is never very clear to me.  <br />I should warn romance readers that there is no happily-ever-after unless you count a trip to a Virginian plantation as a HEA.  Perhaps this is why the book has been compared to Gone With The End.  However, for that book, the age and society in which the book was set was brilliantly evoked, and the heroine (while unlikeable in many ways) had a strong sense of self and of family.  I could not feel the same way about THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY or about Barbara Alderley.  Her sole merit was that she nursed her husband to the very end and that she loved certain people dearly.  Otherwise, she was just another promiscuous beauty - and the book the story of her love affairs, that of her husband, and that of her mother and brother.	2002-09-16
US	50375720	RQMWE9WUYEF27	0312266499	525908481	The Spencers: A Personal History of an English Family	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Interesting but self-serving book...	This book is not the one to read if you want a serious, well-researched book about one of England's great aristocratic families (although hardly the greatest or the oldest or the most historic).  For that, try Georgina Battiscombe's book, which has been out-of-print, although that focuses more on post-1700 Spencers.<br />First of all, do *not* trust the early genealogy as presented in this book.  Lord Spencer clearly buys into the family history presented to his ancestors by 16th century heralds, and warmly espoused by his grandfather, the irascible but family-proud 7th Earl.  It is true that the Spencers - and many others - are descended from the ancient Le Despencer family (but only through many women), and it is not true that the Spencers can claim a direct male-to-male descent from that family.  [Come to think of that - the Le Despencers had such a nasty reputation in the reign of Edward II and Edward III, why would anyone want to claim a descent from them?].<br />The Spencers are the junior branch of the family that now holds the dukedom of Marlborough (yes, Sir Winston was a cousin), because the 1st Duke died leaving only daughters.  By Act of Parliament, the present Earl Spencer is thus in remainder to the dukedom.  The 1st Earl Spencer is in fact the son of the younger brother of the 3rd Duke of Marlborough who was a Spencer (his descendants changed their name to Spencer-Churchill or Churchill).<br />I think that a good book is possible about the history of the Spencer family, or about the more interesting women in this family.  However, the Earl's book is not the place for this.  <br />It is a pity because some of the characters are truly interesting, including Lady Lyttleton (governess to Queen Victoria's elder children).  The greatest Earls Spencer - the 3rd and the 5th Earl - both died childless unfortunately.  The 3rd Earl was a prominent Whig in the early 1800s.   I would have liked to have seen more about the political involvement of the Spencer family over the centuries and how it waned and waxed.  I would also have liked to have seen more of the earlier Spencers, including those Spencer daughters who married well (as early as the late 1500s) and thus allied this family to other more powerful families - and in doing so, raised its profile at court and in Parliament.  This unfortunately is not the book for that, or for an analysis of the development of the famed art collection or the rest of the family fortune.  Nor is a place where the Earl speculates seriously about the future of his family (he and his son, and an elderly uncle, are the only males in the Spencer family).	2002-09-12
US	50375720	R2A8IUGENFW11R	0451187458	725326716	The Colonel's Lady	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Spoiled rotten heroine marries up.....	Lucky Lady Regina.  Having fallen in love with the wrong man -  and having considered herself secretly engaged to him for two years (during which time he gives her only a paltry garnet ring and never writes one single letter), on a whim, Lady Regina dashes off to Brussels during the Hundred Days to meet up with her &quot;fiance&quot; and demand that he marry her.  She bursts in on Wellington and claims that she is engaged to his Staff Officer - one Swinburne.  The only officer by that name is her &quot;fiance&quot;'s older brother Colonel Sir Richard Swinburne, whom Regina disliked on sight.  He is not thrilled to find that Staff gossip has him engaged to a duke's daughter.<br />Despite her mistake, and despite the fact that her &quot;fiance&quot;'s loathsome character is soon revealed, Lady Regina insists on sticking around, so that Charles Swinburne will do the right thing - not by her, but by a governess he has seduced (and why not the other two non-English women?).  Her angry father and two of her brothers arrive and force her to marry Swinburne.  Richard agrees principally out of honour - to save his family name and to protect his brother (who he has been protecting all his life).  Lady Regina is furious with this enforced marriage and storms back to England.  She spends the next few months with her aunt and refuses to meet her father.<br />When Colonel Sir Richard Swinburne returns from Waterloo, he finds his wife missing and collects her from a dance.  They return to his estate when Regina is pleasantly surprised to find that she likes her mother-in-law, a gentle if ineffectual lady.  She also finds her husband reluctant to consummate the marriage, not surprisingly given that she has told him that she finds him distasteful to her, and has implied that she has known pre-marital bliss with his younger brother.  Charles is a downright cad who clearly should have been thrown out long ago; he had seduced Richard's first fiancee and had promised marriage many manytimes to young girls around the estate.  Regina does not bother to correct Richard's impressions of her relationship with his brother, nor does she sit down to have a serious talk.<br />Instead, she returns to see her ailing father only under duress (when her husband forces her to go).  During that time, she spills the beans about her unsatisfactory marital status.  When she returns to the Swinburne estate, she has been reconciled with her father but she still is not sleeping with her husband.  it is not until Charles returns and implies that he has known Regina intimately, that Regina has a serious quarrel with Richard (whom she told earlier that Charles was her lover, remember?).  She decamps to her family, and her four brothers proceed to beat up her husband - although he gives a good account of himself.  Charming, isn't it?<br />Regina does mature by the end, but only a little. Richard is a hero who clearly regrets his leniency towards his lying wastrel brother and the scene where Charles is beaten up (shown briefly) is deeply satisfying if long overdue.  Despite this one weakness (and another, that he failed to ask some much-needed questions of his first fiancee), Richard Swinburne - a mere baronet - is an admirable and honourable man.  Lady Regina is however, not just her daddy's pet but a heroine who seriously needs to grow up.  By the end of the book, we do see her carrying out some of her obligations as lady of the house - but on her father's estate.  <br />Personally, I felt that the couple were mis-matched, that Richard deserved a far better wife, and that the spoiled Lady Regina not only needed to grow up but that she was lucky in the husband she had forced on her.  I did not find the romance between Richard and Regina credible;  it was a story of Richard making the best of a bad situation, and Regina realizing how lucky she was in marrying the &quot;wrong&quot; brother.  Some of the characters were very strong, particularly the duchess who could not relate to her only daughter and the jealous and over-protective brothers.  Unfortunately, this romance had the wrong heroine.<br />Rating = 2.6 (D+)<BR>Breakdown = romance 1.0 (F);  plot 2.8 (C-);  characterization 3.0 (C);  writing 3.8 (B)	2002-09-09
US	50375720	R3IDCZSFVP4BK2	0451180941	445780561	AN Immodest Proposal (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Young widow seeks younger second husband...	Rating = 3.9 (B)<br />Breakdown = romance 3.5(B-);  plot 3.7 (B); characterization 4.2 (B+); writing 4.4 (B+)<br />Recommended - with some reservations.  <BR>Comments - avoid if you cannot stand an immature hero who commits adultery casually<br />See my review of An Inconvenient Wife or my list \\"Patricia Oliver's Seven Corinthian series\\" for the other books in this series<BR>[Written September 9, 2002]	2002-09-09
US	50375720	R300IYDEA4SMRR	0451194845	517177979	An Inconvenient Wife	Books	4	7	9	N	N	One of the Seven Corinthian series by late Patricia Oliver..	This book was one of the earlier books that I read in this series (not well known to most Regency romance readers) by the late Patricia Oliver who died recently.  I started out with Roses for Harriet (an earlier book chronologically and in publication oder) at least three years back when I had just begun to read Signet regency romances.  Recently I re-read this book along with Roses for Harriet, and The Colonel's Lady.<br />This review places the book in context of the series, rather than providing an opinion of the book per se.<br />The Seven Corinthians are a group of wealthy gentlemen who are interested in fast horses, in gambling and other male aristocratic amusements, in pretty and fast women, and also in athletic pursuits.  I am not sure that I have an exact list of who is one of the Seven, but here is a tentative list - firstly, Robert [Heathercott], Marquess of Gresham [who plays a significant part in The Colonel's Lady, and whose own romance is in Lord Gresham's Lady];  secondly, [Robert Stilton] the Marquess of Monroyal [who plays a significant part in An Immodest Proposal and a minor part in some other books, and whose own marriage is set in this book - An Inconvenient Wife - set in 1817];  thirdly, the Honourable Willoughby &quot;Willy&quot; Hampton [who never managed to get his love before the author died, alas!];  fourthly, his brother Major Jack Hampton [whose story is told, I believe, in The Runaway Duchess, which I have not read]; fifthly, [Giles Montague] the Earl of Kimbalton [whose story is told in Roses for Harriet, and who appears at the beginning of this book];  sixthly, [Phineas Ravensville] the Earl of Mansfield or &quot;Raven&quot; [whose story appears in Miss Drayton's Downfall, and who also appears at the beginning of this book]; and seventh and last, the Duke of Wolverton whose story is told in another book An Unsuitable Match.   Other books - The Colonel's Lady tells the story of Lord Gresham's only sister Lady Regina Heathercott, and An Immodest Proposal the story of Lord Monroyal's step-cousin the Dowager Viscountess Lonsdale (called here Lady Cynthia Lonsdale).<br />I have written down the names of the heroes as they should appear, since in reality, peers were not known by their first name, family name and title (although courtesy peers were styled by their first name and courtesy title hence Robert, Marquess of Gresham).  One of the things I noticed in beginning a re-read of Patricia Oliver's Seven Corinthian series (and the two related books) is that her books are far more appealing when the reader knows relatively little about the social conventions (let alone proper styles of the peers and courtesy peers).  On a re-read, I found myself questioning elements of her plots, and judging both her heroes and heroines far more harshly.<br />I will comment on the book in a separate review.  As far as I can tell, AN INCONVENIENT WIFE is perhaps the last in the Seven Corinthian series (the last that is, that ends with one of them married).  For lovers of Patricia Oliver, this is one reason alone to keep this book.  I confess to a weakness for the series myself, even though I find the plots rather unlikely today.	2002-09-09
US	50375720	R1LZBTLVVUKXJQ	0373511698	841557702	The Admiral's Daughter: A Regency Romance	Books	3	0	0	N	N	First half very interesting, second half less convincing...	I was reminded that I had read this title when I was asked my opinion about Judith Harkness's book of the same name (an old Signet Regency with a very different plot).  At the time I read this, I was on a naval kick, reading not only sea adventure (Hornblower, mostly) but also reading naval-themed regencies, of which there are surprisingly not that many.  <br />A very brief summary of the first part of the story - the heroine Helena Wyatt is the daughter of a late Admiral, who is watching her much younger brother play about on the river.  At some point, she ends up stranded in a boat which drifts inexorably downstream to the sea.  She is rescued by the hero Lord Adam Darvell, who is playing an undercover role.  The heroine appears to be hopelessly compromised by the hero, but does not believe so.  [She has a point - if no one of consequence knows that she was alone with him, she cannot be compromised.  The problem is - what if someone comes to know?]<br />The second half of the book involves the hero's efforts to court the heroine (who will have none of him).  There is also considerable intrigue, regarding Adam's undercover work (is he spying for the French?) and a villain who is out to rise as fast as he can in the Navy.  Helena's naval connections (her father and her aunt's husband) matter considerably to this villain, and you can guess what happens next.  <br />Quick comments - First, I read this book several months back.  Please take this review therefore for what it is worth, based on some out-of-date recollections.<br />The heroine's wish not to marry a man who has compromised her, simply out of necessity, made sense to me [I love Julia Murray's A Perfect Match for a story of such a marriage that seems to court disaster].  However, Helena's feelings against Lord Adam Darvell seemed to be too negative considering her position.  For one thing, he was hardly the worst husband she could have.  For another, she was not guaranteed complete secrecy (regarding her little adventure).<br />I liked Lord Adam Darvell very much for the most part, even when he made mistakes in his courtship.  The villain's motives seemed somewhat credible - connections mattered considerably in the navy, both in obtaining promotions upto the level of captain, and then in determining what ships and assignments a captain obtained (and therefore what professional success and luck in making his own fortune he would have).  Nevertheless, I do prefer my villains to be not so black-and-white for the most part.  After some time, the heroine did irritate me as well.  Could she really prefer a marriage to which she was blackmailed to an honourable offer from another man?  <br />Among the secondary characters, I did like the heroine's mother and aunt and uncle.  I would have liked to have seen more of the heroine's family at times.<br />This has a solid story and a fairly simple plotline, few distracting sub-plots, and an interesting hero and heroine.  The writing is fairly good.  Unfortunately, somehow the story does not shine enough to push it into B grade.<br />Grade - C+ (3.3)<br />Recommended - for readers tired of a marriage of convenience, and for those interested in naval-themed regencies.<br />Other good regencies with a naval theme - Carla Kelly MISS WHITTIER MAKES A LIST;  Susan Carroll THE CHRISTMAS BELLES.<br />[Review written September 6, 2002]	2002-09-06
US	50375720	R17LCUQA35T9T9	1840463635	367809714	Introducing Islam	Books	4	20	23	N	N	This is a good pictorial history of Islam	I am no scholar of Islam or even of comparative religions.  This book came my way in my job, and being curious, I picked it up.  In a few minutes I had learned far more about the early life of Muhammad (the Prophet) and about the social conditions in which Islam had originated, than I had learned from many other books and articles. While this book is definitely anti-colonial in its approach, it provides a good synthesis of the development of Islam, the contributions of Muslims worldwide in science and philosophy, the interactions with Western Europe before, during and after the Crusades, and the state of Islam today.  There is a critique of fundamentalist theories that ignore the teachings of the Koran, and most interestingly for me, a discussion of the position of women in Islam today.  [And yes, there is a reference to the terrorist attacks of September 11, and how that is no more representative of Islam than atrocities by adherents of other religions would be of their community].  What I liked was that there was also a short bibliography for further reading. <br />The authors are two UK-based Muslims who are journalists and/or designers.  The book is part of what looks like an interesting series \\"Introducing .....\\" that attempts to present famous thinkers, branches of sciences, religions and so forth in simple but not simplistic terms.	2002-09-05
US	50375720	R2S9UMVOE1N2SE	037351204X	846822392	Secret Of The Wolf (Reader's Choice)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Bk 1 of a trilogy that appeared in Silhouette Shadows line	The storyline has been described pretty well by the others.  I just wanted to alert readers to the following facts - firstly, this book is part of a trilogy (and it does pay to read them in order, although each book can stand on its own more or less);  secondly, that this book is a reprinted version of an old book from the Silhouette Shadows line (now defunct), and most importantly - the author Rebecca Flanders is now writing as Donna Boyd (see her hardcover werewolf series - The Passion, and The Promise).<br />Elements from this trilogy are reused in the current Devoncroix series - the castle/fortress in Alaska, the secret domination by werewolves of significant sectors in the economy, the prejudice against humans, the belief that humans and wolves cannot mate and cannot have children together, and lastly the concept that some werewolves are anthropomorphs (cannot change into wolf form).  And the ruling family is apparently of French descent, and as in the Devoncroix series, succession is via ultimogeniture (the youngest-born inherits).	2002-09-05
US	50375720	R3VLK99TT4L7WX	0449001997	374797993	How the Rogue Stole Christmas (Cats of Mayfair Series , No 4)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Very odd story...	This was one of the first Regencies I acquired (as opposed to borrowing from the library).  At that time, I had come off a spate of later Marion Chesney's with her uniquely askew vision of Regency society.  Naturally, this book appealed to me a lot, and on its strength, I acquired the author's Beau Brummell books in hardcover - which I do not regret.  <br />I came back to this book recently, after it was mentioned on one of my discussion groups and I found I could not remember the plot. [This was perhaps a bad sign].  On a re-read, I found this book much less accessible, much less humorous, and rather convoluted in its reasoning.<br />It is best to regard this book as a farce.  HOW THE ROGUE STOLE CHRISTMAS is about a penniless heroine determined to have a good Christmas, despite several problems -  she must sell a dress to buy food and firewood, but her cottage roof falls in.   She must travel to a neighbor's home subsequently, during which trip she stays in a shabby inn and is accosted by a London beau who believes her to be a maid.  At the neighbor's home, she finds out that her hostess, a dowager countess who dresses too young for her age, is determined to marry her off to a London beau - who just happens to be the very man who insulted her at the inn.  And so it goes, through various ill-matched couples quarrelling with each other, a thieving senior servant, and five frisky little kittens.<br />At this moment, I probably cannot appreciate the farcical element of the story, because the plot gets slightly convoluted.  There are many many secondary characters, each with their own story.  There are at least three secondary romances going on (although it is hard to call some of them romances!).  There is a highly unpleasant society lady, and an almost equally unpleasant servant.  No wonder that my head was reeling!<br />The problems I had with this story at the second reading was that in the two or three years in between readings I have read many more Regency romances, some better and some worse.  I have also learned a lot more about the Regency period.  Finally, I have read romances where the authors were sensitive to historical details (including social conventions) without boring their reader.  HOW THE ROGUE STOLE CHRISTMAS is a charming if eccentric story, but it is not particularly correct in terms of keeping to the social conventions.  <br />Throughout my second and third readings of this, I was wondering about the heroine's position in society, her first marriage, her relationships with others (including her estranged father), and her financial situation.  Lady Margery's life at the beginning of the novel did not make sense to me.  Much about her back-story (her previous history) remained unexplained or made no sense.  Why did Lady Margery not seek a reconciliation with her father, or vice versa after her husband's death?  Why did she choose to remain married to the husband in the first place?  Why would she tell the hero that her marriage was never consummated but hesitate to share that information with her old nurse, her father and other people? [For that matter, an unconsummated marriage meant that the marriage could have been simply annulled].  I also could not understand why her nurse was Miss, not Mrs, and why Lady Margery had no governess, just her old nurse who raised her.  That was just for starters.  I could pick faults at any stage in the plot.   There were so many holes in the plot, so many dropped plot threads, and above all, too many people.<br />At best, I would have to say that Rosemary Stevens wrote this very early in her career (when she knew little about the period) or that she deliberately ignored several details such as the correct title of the daughters of an earl.   This book is more enjoyable, I suspect, when the reader knows little about the period or does not care about such details.  I unfortunately do not fall into either camp.<br />There are saving details - some of the secondary charactersare beautifully drawn, and we get an early glimpse of Beau Brummell (the detective-hero of Steven's recent works).  <br />Rating = C+ (3.1)<BR>Breakdown = romance 2.7 (C-),  plot 2.7 (C-),  writing 3.5 (B-), characterization 3.2 (C+)<br />Comment: This grade does not include deductions for lack of historical accuracy, or accuracy in social conventions of the period.  If that is an issue for you, avoid this book.<br />Recommendation:  For lovers of Regency farces that are light on historical details.	2002-09-03
US	50375720	R1XBIS8QEMLAMJ	1583142223	393708960	Bargain Of The Heart (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strong characters, interesting setting, ending weak	This is the story of a couple who are on the brink of a divorce. Crystal, a burnt-out schoolteacher, has suffered a miscarriage 5 months ago. She has spent some time in Japan (why? we don't know) and upon her return she tells her husband Richard, an up-and-coming lawyer, that she wants a divorce immediately. Richard is stunned. He was not aware that anything was wrong. He is the \\"typical\\" workaholic husband, the career-obssessed lawyer who has taken his wife for granted. So he makes a bargain with Crystal that she will allow him to date her for three months. If after that, she wants a divorce, that is fine with him. If she refuses this deal, he will hold up the divorce for her. Since Crystal has quit teaching, this means financial hardship for her. So Crystal agrees.<br />The couple spend the next three months dating each other. Crystal lives out in the mountains, in their cabin. She spends time with her aunt Annie who is recovering from a gunshot that broke her hip. Annie's alleged attackers are being defended by Richard (Annie's nephew by marriage) who believes the two boys innocent of this particular charge. Fortunately, that does not destroy the relationship with Annie.<br />What I liked about this book was the details of living in a small town, and life in a southern African-American community. What was particularly interesting to me was that I did not realize until about page 20 or so that this was a romance about an African-American couple, and for most of the book (the couple's relatives aside) I could not tell who was black and who was white. It was really nice though, reading about settled African-American families with their complex interrelationships, as opposed to the virtual absence of African-Americans (and other minority groups) from mainstream romance. And yup, I loved the fact that Crystal came from three generations of teachers and that Richard came from at least 2 generation of civic and political leaders.<br />There were many secondary characters with their own stories. There was Crystal's aunt Annie and her budding romance with a local farmer Travis. There was Richard's parents and their apparently political marriage of convenience. Dare I say that I liked the fact that his mother (although critical of Crystal privately to Richard) treated Crystal decently? She was a complex person in her own right, with her own hopes, fears and dreams. By the end, I understood why she put all her eggs in one basket (all her hopes in Richard).<br />Although the minor characters - Sadie, Abel etc - were occasionally distracting (with a running feud between Sadie and Abel in particular), they did add a lot of color and depth to the story. Literacy was a very strong theme here, because Crystal is asked to carry on her aunt's literacy education efforts locally. She ends up teaching a group of adults in their later years how to read. And Richard and his mother are completely supportive here. [Nice change].<br />I did find the mystery part a bit underdone (and the ending was rather abrupt). The mystery of who shot Annie was cleared, but not why. The villain got off too easily IMHO. And I suspected at least halfway through one of the possible suspects, if not the exact motive. But the mystery of the brakes was never solved. Nor was the issue of the fire (accident? arson?). That was the only major detraction from this book.	2002-08-28
US	50375720	R2HCH2KIG4KP8K	0373311982	703283465	Thea's Marquis (Harlequin Regency Romance No. 31198)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	3rd in a trilogy - story of a rake's dependent	If you have always wondered what life could be like - realistically - for the dependents of the men who gamed and womanized their lives away in London, try this book.  Thea's Marquis is the third and last book in a trilogy - A Lord For Miss Larkin, The Road to Gretna, and Thea's Marquis.<br />The heroine of this book - Thea - is the daughter and sister of two men who have wasted their small estate's income in London, leaving the mother and sisters to scrounge for a living as best they can.  At the start of the trilogy, the father is long dead but the son  Jason, Lord Kilmore(Thea's brother) has followed in his footsteps.  It is not until his attempted abduction/ seduction of an heiress falls through that he begins to mend his ways.  He is still not completely reformed in Bk 2 (The Road to Gretna) when he is eloping to Gretna with an old friend, but switches brides on the journey.  By the end of Bk 2, he has visited his family estate and been completely shocked by the lifestyle of his mother and sisters. Bk 3 - Thea's Marquis - is the story of his sister Thea Kilmore who falls for a Marquis (actually a Marquess - Roderick, Marquess of Hazelwood).  She is convinced that her family's wretched financial condition and the ambitions of her relatives prevent her from accepting his offer.  Furthermore, she herself is not interesting enough to keep his interest.<br />I have to say, in the interests of truth, that I was far more interested in the ongoing character development of Thea's brother Jason than in Thea herself.  Even in Bk 3, Jason's marriage is not running smoothly (so good to see that &quot;happily ever afters&quot; need a lot of work).  I read this trilogy some months back, and while I liked Thea, her romance was not that much of a standout.  I did enjoy the trilogy as a whole, and I though Jason (Lord Kilmore) one of Dunn's more memorable characters - along with Miriam Jacobsen (in another trilogy).<br />This was a competent Regency, ruined slightly by a melodramatic ending (with the villain of Bk 2 back).  For stronger books by Carola Dunn, I recommend the following in this order - Miss Jacobsen's Journey (Bk 1 of another trilogy),  His Lordship's Reward (Bk 2 of this trilogy; set partly in Waterloo-time Brussels); The Fortune Hunters, Crossed Quills (a politically-oriented book), and A Susceptible Gentleman (a farce about a hero with three mistresses and too many fiancees).<br />Rating for Thea's Marquis = 3.3 (C+) <BR>Trilogy rated slightly higher = 3.7 (B-)	2002-08-28
US	50375720	R1PFTSHJJ8HEFL	037331163X	834470568	The Fortune-Hunters (Harlequin Regency Romance #63)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One of Dunn's strongest regencies.	Do you like Bath?  Do you like stories about adventurers and adventuresses? You do?  This book might be perfect for you.  Matthew Walsingham, a man-about-town, has just been disowned by his uncle for a minor prank.  Since he inherited virtually nothing from his father and he had run up debts based on his expectations, he now needs to make his fortune and/or find an heiress.  Making his fortune - he is an amateur architect - will take time.  Finding an heiress is more promising, as long as word does not get out about his disinheritance.  So off goes Matthew to nearby Bath - with the aid and advice of his aunt (his crotchedy uncle's sister).  He finds charming Miss Jessica Franklin, the sister of a wealthy North-Country baronet.<br />We know what Matthew does not - Jessica is down in Bath looking for a rich husband herself.  She and her brother are in desperate need of immediate cash.  Her family leased the estate they have lived on for generations, from an ancient noble family (the Vanes, Earls of Darlington, later Dukes of Cleveland). Lord Darlington has had to sell some land, including their estate, and the new owner wants them off the land.  He has an alternative.  Jessica can marry him.  She does not like him - he is nouveau riche and incredibly vulgar - and she prefers to try her marital luck in Bath (London is too dear). Her long-absent brother returns from the American campaign (War of 1812) and agrees to do a little wife-hunting on his own.  Jessica puts up a good show, with their eccentric Roman-mad governess pretending to be their aunt.  <br />Enter a decidedly nouveau-riche (Cit) heiress whom Jessica takes in hand and shows how to dress properly.  Enter a smarmy lord who takes an unexpected fancy to Jessica herself.  Enter an old family friend, a client of Matthew (in his architectural practice) who is very troubled by Matthew's deception and who seems attracted to Jessica as well.  What are Matthew and Jessica to do? And will they confess the truth to each other, and when?<br />This was a delightful novel. The twists and turns kept me entertained, and I wondered seriously how the couple would get out of the tangles they had embroiled themselves in.  Would Matthew's friend spill the beans?  Would Jessica's brother, also troubled by the deception, confess all and too early or to the wrong person?  There are three or so secondary romances (including one stealth romance) that entertain but do not detract from the romance between the hero and heroine.  This book is highly recommended for those bored with the usual straight romance.<br />Rated = 4.5 (A-)<BR>No breakdown provided, since I read this book some months back.	2002-08-28
US	50375720	R343MO8CBNFCMX	0373311257	577861804	Susceptible Gentleman (Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Farce about too many mistresses and fiancees	If you don't like farces or promiscuous heroes, avoid this book.  To tell the truth, the hero is not particularly promiscuous, although he has difficulty clearly with women.  First, there is his mother and his sisters (including a married sister who is always fleeing to him with minor complaints about her husband).  Secondly, there are those would-be fiancees his mother and sisters invite home.  Then, there is the little problem of two mistresses too many.  [Can a man really have a mistress for a different mood?].  Not to mention, there is the vicar's sister back home, an old childhood friend who has become so much more than a friend.<br />You can imagine the confusion generated in the life of Adam, Viscount Cheverell when he finds himself engaged to three women all during one excursion - and discovers that all three of his mistresses have come down to his family seat looking for him.  What is a man to do? Beg his old friend Miss Sarah Meade to help him naturally? And what is a vicar's daughter and sister to do when her old friend asks her to shelter and calm down three Fashionable Impures who were unknown to each other (and who get into catfights, naturally)?  <br />I have to say that I fell in love with this book when I read about the vicar (brother of the heroine) snitching the gingerbread men hot from the oven.  Do I like gingerbread?  Nope.  But I love the idea of a vicar casually snitching his sister's efforts and naming them after Biblical characters.  Adam is a bit much at times, his engagements not being his fault (you have to read the book to believe this!) but he definitely had too many mistresses.  Yet his explanations almost had me believing in him.    <br />My only regret was that the vicar was disposed of by the end of this book.  I would have loved to have read a book in which he featured as the hero.  [Not to mention that I felt he deserved a different partner in life!].<br />Rating - 4.3 (B+)<BR>No breakdowns provided, since I read this book a while back.	2002-08-28
US	50375720	R3ULCQJL9O7IM4	0802712150	916509637	Miss Jacobson's Journey	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great story, unusual plot.	If you like road trip romances, love triangles (one heroine facing two suitors), a bit of adventure, and an unusual theme, try this book.  Heroine Miriam Jacobson is Jewish but a British subject.  She is asked by a Rothschild in Paris to help two fellow Britons out with a dangerous but patriotic attempt to get gold to Wellington's armies in Spain.  During the trip, Miriam learns more about herself and the two men who soon begin vying for her attention. <br />This is a rare Regency with a Jewish heroine. Others in this genre are Star Sapphire by Rebecca Danton (Fawcett 1979), although the heroine of that book marries a Gentile (a marquess) at the beginning, and the recently published A Question of Honor by Nita Abrams.  Carola Dunn treats the situation of Jews in British society and on the continent with sensitivity, and her heroine (and one of the suitors who is Jewish) act in consistency with their upbringing.<br />Miss Jacobsen's Journey, long out-of-print, is now available as an e-book (published from Belgrave House).  Get it here or look for it at your public library.  If you liked this book, you might want to try Bk 2 (His Lordship's Reward) or Bk 3 (The Captain's Inheritance) to learn more about Miriam's future life.	2002-08-28
US	50375720	R13BJ5JX43XNY9	0312978723	564743304	Falling for You	Books	4	39	45	N	N	A sucker for books with plenty of local color...	I love books that are set in an area new to me and that evoke local color so dramatically that I feel that I am there or that I want to be there [in my case, now I want to go visit Galveston, Texas!].<br />This is a story with plenty of color, and one which takes a standard plotline - rich stuffy banker meets wild child - and sets it on its ear.  Rich characterization helps, and the secondary characters are multidimensional living human beings who have their own life histories.  There are some funny scenes, but what counted for me in this book was the wonderful evocation of a city in small-town mode, the twists and turns in the relationship between the banker and the \\"wild child\\", and the hints at family secrets between the two of them.  <br />The plotline is simple - Oliver Chancellor \\"Chance\\" is a banker whose father has just sold his small family-owned bank to an East Coast group.  He is still expected to spend his life with the bank, to behave suitably and to marry suitably.  His intended bride Paige is the daughter of old family friends.  However, Oliver finds himself attracted to the sister of a schoolmate.  Aurora \\"Rory\\" St Claire comes from an unconventional and almost disreputable family, with a famous local scandal in their past.  She is a tour guide, her brother is a chef, and her sister works for a gallery.  Nothing particularly special about Rory, except her stunning looks and her bubbly personality.  Rory has self-esteem issues (we soon learn why), but she desperately wants to run her own B&B.  When a house belonging to an ancestor is up for sale (after foreclosure by Chance's bank), Rory tries to obtain a loan to buy the property and get the B&B started.  Oliver helps out, as much because he wants to help start a new business and see what else he is capable of, as because he wants to spend time with Rory against his better judgement. However, the loan from Chance's bank falls through.  [I am going to end here to prevent spoilers].<br />The plot is complicated by secrets in Rory's families, the long-term effects of their family scandal (the most famous in Galveston), and by the contradictions within Oliver and Rory themselves.  Oliver knows that he desires Rory, but he considers her an unsuitable wife for a small-town banker (which she is).  He is prepared to marry a woman he does not love, simply to meet the expectations of their families, friends and the community.  Rory often acts without thinking and creates trouble down the road for herself.  But her vision of a B&B helps her to stumble along, discovering much of her hidden potential.  If you are looking for a modern romance where a heroine makes a go out of a demanding new career (i.e does not downsize), this is a great book.<br />There are some scenes of lovemaking (including one rather sudden burst of passion, with the aftermath described in funny detail), but these do not take up very much space. The passion, the sexual attraction between the couple is described through other means - the first kiss (when you just have to compare Rory's reaction to Paige's), the fact that Chance keeps thinking about Rory at work and with other people, the reactions of other people to their relationship.<br />What I loved about this book was the quirky relationships between the protagonists and the secondary characters, the way in which local history and geography was incorporated into a romance, the fact that secondary romances (past and present) existed but did not detract from the relationship between Chance and Rory.  I also loved the fact that the author was clearly setting us up for at least one sequel, with major changes to Chance's lifestyle by the end of the book and a hinted-at romance for Rory's older sister.  <br />I did have mixed feelings about Chance and Rory.  I was annoyed with him for being so blind about his true love, for not really wondering earlier what he wanted to do with his life.  I also criticized Rory for keeping her secret, a secret.  But thesewere minor problems.<br />If you like books about strong modern (or post-modern) characters with plenty of local color and with some quirky humor, try this book.	2002-08-22
US	50375720	R13GXQQU2DSR3X	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Highly addictive introduction to series...	I got addicted via the latest book NARCISSUS IN CHAINS, and then decided to get the rest of the series.  I tried to read the whole series in order, beginning with GUILTY PLEASURES.  One of the delights in coming late to a series is that you get to devour several books over a matter of weeks (two weeks in my case).  As a late-comer to the world of Anita Blake, Vampire Slayer (\\"The Executioner\\"), or Anitaverse in the terminology of those addicted to the series, I can attest to its addictive qualities.  Instead of packing for a move, I was reading and re-reading LUNATIC CAFE (a book at the mid-point) and THE KILLING DANCE.  <br />I will try not to spoil the series for those beginning with this book.  Some words of caution (apart from the fact that your sleep will be disrupted) are in order.  Firstly, although the level of gore never really rises above that of the second book (THE LAUGHING CORPSE), in the latter books, Anita engages in more and more violent acts, mostly in self-defense but also to protect those she cares for.  Secondly, the distinctions between humans and monsters becomes questionable.  Anita's actions (both violent and otherwise) lead to her (and others) questioning both her humanity and her morality.<br />Thirdly, the sexual element in this series increases from about the 5th or 6th book.  Some people are comfortable with this, others are not.  Personally, I have always viewed this series as NC-17 (if it were a film), although GUILTY PLEASURES might possibly be considered R.   This series is not for the squeamish, either in terms of violent acts or in terms of the sexual element.  <br />Finally, although it is not essential (I think) to read all the books, it is useful to read them in order.  I read most of the series skipping CIRCUS OF THE DAMNED and BLOODY BONES.  There were enough references in the latter books to pick up on what had happened, and I did not feel that I had missed a lot.  I would however recommend against reading the later books - starting from THE LUNATIC CAFE out of order, if you want to understand some of Anita's strengths and weakness or to understand her relationships with those around her. <br />This book, the first in the series, introduces Anita Blake, a young vampire executioner in her early to mid twenties.  She works as an animator (a person who can raise the dead), but she also works as a vampire executioner.  In her world, vampires and other paranormal beings (mostly lycanthropes, one kind of shape-shifter that includes werewolves and wererats) have been legalized by a Supreme Court decision.  As a result, humans are learning to co-exist legally if uneasily with paranormal beings.  Rogue vampires do exist (those who kill humans), and a few licensed executioners destroy them.  In this book, we see not only Anita's workday and work environment, but we are also introduced to some vampires who will play a major role in Anita's life.  <br />Anita is asked by the most powerful vampire in the city [not Jean-Claude!] to solve the mystery of disappearing vampires.  Is there a rogue vampire destroying his own kind?  Or is there a human group out to destroy vampires illegally?  In the search for answers, Anita will find some old enemies and make some new friends and allies.  We are also introduced to one particular vampire Jean-Claude who will play a major role in the series.<br />Rating for book = 4.4 [A-]<BR>Rating for series = 4.5 [A-]<br />Recommendation - Quick fast read;  not recommended for those who dislike violence or sex in their reading.	2002-08-20
US	50375720	R3TN2KN0XDAA7C	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Nothing spectacular...	This romance (Bk 4 in the Bridgerton series) tells us who Lady Whistledown is.  I had the doubtful privilege of realizing that I had guessed correctly in Bk 1 &quot;The Duke and I&quot;.  The hero Colin Bridgerton is the third son, and he is paired up with a wallflower, and an old friend of his sisters (no spoilers here).<br />The couple were perfectly pleasant together, and herein lies the problem.  I really did not feel any sparks between them, unlike the real emotions between Simon and Daphne (Bk 1) or Anthony and Kate (Bk 2).  Colin was this &quot;lost&quot; hero, the superfluous man, the idle aristocrat trying to find his way in life.  He has spent so much of his life running away that he almost fails to notice his true match.<br />The problem was that as cute as the little extracts from Lady Whistledown's colum were, too much was made of the need to keep her identity a secret.  This part of the plot dragged on, and on and on.  There seemed to be very little else to the story, beside this and the efforts of Colin to discover what he wanted for the rest of his life.  I think I prefer a romance with a little more action, or more serious angst.<br />Rating = 3.5 (B-)<BR>Breakdown = romance 3.4 (B-);  writing 3.8 (B);  characterization 3.4 (B-);  plot development 3.2 (C+)	2002-08-19
US	50375720	R373IXQ1128P46	0373270593	966690410	59: Shadow Of The Wolf (Heart Of The Wolf) (Silhouette Shadows)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Fantastic end to the Heart of the Wolf trilogy	This is the third book in a trilogy - SECRETS OF THE WOLF, WOLF IN WAITING, and now SHADOW OF THE WOLF - originally published in the defunct Silhouette Shadows line.  Fortunately for lovers of werewolf romances, this trilogy is being reissued starting August 2002.  The author Rebecca Flanders has published two books of the Devoncroix werewolf series under the name of Donna Boyd (which may explain the rising interest in her earlier werewolf trilogy).<br />I was fortunate enough to obtain all three of them, and I read them when I should have been packing for a move.  Although I liked all three books, this book was the most tense, in that there was a real killer out there, and the hero and heroine were in real danger from the outset.  I don't want to say too much about the story, but to give the newcomer some details.<br />A powerful family of werewolves - the St Clares - rule most werewolves from their castle-fortress-compound in Alaska (sounds familiar?).  The succession passes to the youngest in each generation, but recently the succession has experienced a slight hiccup when the heir designate fell in love with a human and actually mated with her in human form, something that was considered impossible until then.  In the third book SHADOWS OF THE WOLF we learn that it is not only possible for a werewolf to mate with a human (in wolf form) but it is also possible for a werewolf male to father a child by a human female mate.  [I don't know if the opposite is possible].  This new discovery has implications for the entire werewolf pack as well as for the hero and heroine.<br />A werewolf killer is on the rampage in New Orleans. The head of the St Clare family, the leader of the werewolves, has hired a P.I. to find and presumably destroy this killer.  Ky however does not know that his client is the leader of the werewolves.  All he knows is that his client is the first werewolf he has ever met, and that he is willing to pay for another werewolf to be assassinated.  Thisview of werewolf morality does not impress him overly, especially after he rescues a young reporter from the werewolf killer.<br />The reporter Amy has her own agenda.  She is intensely curious, brave, somewhat reckless but compassionate.  She survives being kidnapped by the werewolf killer, and plans to follow up his killings with a special expose for a variety of reasons.  Her life is however in danger, or so Ky thinks.  He therefore sets out to protect her as best as possible, which leads to some decidedly funny-erotic scenes. [I love the part when Amy extols his imagined virtues in bed to a friend, knowing full well that Ky is listening in.  He gets his \\"revenge\\" later].<br />During the course of the book, they receive help in the shape of information about werewolves from a mysterious source.  Part of their investigation is taken up with tracking down the source.  Is it friend or foe?  Is it the killer playing with them?  <br />There are questions to be answered.   Who exactly is Ky? Why was he chosen of all possible P.I.'s to track down the renegade werewolf? What connection does he have to the St Clare family, or to the killer?  These questions are answered by the end.<br />Others remain up in the air - Are there more werewolf-human unions undisclosed to the Pack?  Were there more children born of the union?  How did the renegade werewolf become a renegade in the first place? Is there a touch of werewolf in Amy's ancestry.   I wish that there had been more books in this series.<br />This was a gripping emotional read.  I would rate it very highly, even though the romance often plays second fiddle to the suspense element.  The ending is a cliff-hanger in many ways, and it brings in a couple of old friends from an earlier book.  By the end, Ky and Amy prove that they are indeed mated, and they do indeed deserve each other.<br />  My only regrets were that so many questions remained unanswered.  I would also have liked to have heard a bit more about Ky's remarkable mother who survived unwed motherhood in the Deep South and apparent abandonment by the man she had loved to raise her son.<br />Rating = 4.5 (A-)	2002-08-19
US	50375720	RNSGS0WNSB7MW	0886773733	151957100	The Forbidden Tower (Darkover)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A keeper, and among the best of Marion Zimmer Bradley	I am not a fan of science fiction works where male-dominated societies are replaced by female-dominated ones.  I do like much of the Darkover saga, notably those that show conflicts between cultures native to Darkover (as well as conflicts between Darkovan and Terran culture).  As I cut down my library, I consider which of the Darkover novels I should keep with me.  I have never swayed from my opinion that THE FORBIDDEN TOWER is probably the one to keep, above all others.<br />A confession - this was the very first Darkover novel that I read, and it took me a while to realize that it was part of a series.  I think the attractions of the book have been described well by others, as well as the plot.  I will not say much more for fear of spoilers.  The only thing I will add regarding the plot is that the resolution of the two couples's problems is achieved via something that can be used successfully just once (as far as Darkover fans are concerned).  Unfortunately, MZB tried to use the same solution for another and much weaker novel THE WORLD WRECKERS (which many fans also consider to be non-canonic in the sense that its events violate the history told in other books, earlier and later).<br />I will instead explain why this book is so outstanding among many good books (including those dedicated to the Free Amazons, and the story of Lewis Lanart-Alton in THE HERITAGE OF HASTUR).  THE FORBIDDEN TOWER takes place relatively late in Darkovan history (which spans several centuries).  The events in this book occur some years after the planet has been discovered, or rather rediscovered, by Terrans.  [For that story, read the co-authored REDISCOVERY].  There is a prequel to this book, THE SPELL SWORD, but it is not really necessary to read it.  There is a sequel to this book, called THE BLOODY SUN which some would view as essential reading and others not.  I believe that this title can stand alone, one of the few Darkovan titles that can do so.<br />The protagonists of this book are Damon Ridenow (whose ancestors were dry-town bandits), and his new wife and her sister.  Both women hail from the powerful Lanart-Alton (or rather Alton) clan.  Each clan - the Ridenow, the Altons, and others - have specific powers, although not all members of the clan exhibit those powers.  [Forgive me for errors in terminology, because it has been a while since I read the whole series].  The difference in inheritance of powers becomes a minor issue between the sisters, in that one became a Keeper (a position of great honor and power, but enforced celibacy) and the other - married.  There is no resentment between the sisters, but the fact that siblings do not inherit the same level of power becomes an issue in other books.<br />There is both internal conflict (generated by the beliefs and expectations, as well as life experiences of the protagonists) as well as external conflicts (the decisions and actions of others).  Part of the appeal of this book is the internal conflict.  No body is perfect here, and each person has a reasonable point of view.  The sole Terran, Andrew Carr, husband to Callista Lanart-Alton (the former Keeper), must work his way not only through a complicated relationship with the other three, but also his own feelings about marriage.  [Marriage in Darkover is not quite like marriage between Terrans].  Part of the attraction in this book is seeing Andrew adjust to and gradually accept this very different notion of marriage, not to mention his relationships with his wife's sister and her husband.<br />I should mention here that if you have a very conventional mind about marriage, you will be shocked by some of the goings-on.  But I assume that as a reader of this review (who is interested in science fiction), you are prepared to accept that other worlds have different rules.<br />I loved the ending of course.  It was not just that the good guys won, but how they won.  Somehow their particular solution to the problem made sense brilliantly.  And very few people got hurt, compared to THE HERITAGE OF HASTUR. <br />I won't say what happens to these couples (and to others) down the road, because that is a story fully told in later books, particularly THE BLOODY SUN.   However, since I know the ending to this particular story, that does not make me love or hate it more.  It just adds a special poignancy to this particular book.<br />I think of THE FORBIDDEN TOWER both as a romance and as a creative work of SFF.  Even after reading through other works, this book remains the most accessible as well as the most memorable.<br />Grade - A+, 4.9<BR>[No breakdown in grade given]<br />Recommended - Very Highly for lovers of SFF (or soft SF).  Might appeal to readers of Catherine Asaro or Mercedes Lackey.	2002-08-14
US	50375720	R1VJ65KR89B7VX	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Starts intriguingly, but lacks historical details...	This book is much better than Hunter's previous work LORD OF A THOUSAND NIGHTS.  It however, does not match up in terms of psychological and emotional intensity to her first four books, particularly her first book BY ARRANGEMENT(which some people hate but I re-read obsessively).  <br />Let me explain how I view this author.  Madeline Hunter is for me one of the strongest writers in the genre of historical romance.  I mourn the fact that she will not be writing more medieval romances (there are so few good writers for medievals), although I am excited about her move to a different time period, one that I am far more familiar with.   The reason why Hunter is an auto-buy author for me is that her plots are (almost) always different and challenging.  Her heroes and heroines are complex characters, who merit closer examination through re-reads.  There is enough historical detail to ponder over during each re-read - and to feel that I am right there in that city, or that hamlet or that castle or fortress.  I also learn something new from her best books, whether it is the fact that medieval people sometimes had more sophisticated toilet facilities than suspected, or the fact that trade was more extensive than I had thought.<br />Stealing Heaven begins with a great scene - a man (the hero Marcus of Anglesmore) is climbing a garden wall to sneak a look at his betrothed.  Why is his betrothed avoiding him?  Why is this man so determined to view his bride, if he cannot avoid this marriage?  Why does he have to marry her?  Great questions.  The plot thickens when Marcus discovers that he encountered the sister of the woman he is to marry, and that she is forbidden to him both by the laws of the church (after he marries) and by the fact that she was Edward III's mistress \\"the King's Whore.\\"  <br />We have met Marcus as young Mark in BY DESIGN, where he was the heroine's younger brother and a definite brat.  He is older, more mature. He has not however come wholly to terms with the events of his childhood.  It is not necessary to read BY DESIGN first, but some things about Mark make more sense if you have read that story first (or later).  <br />Nesta is more of an enigma.  She is consumed by her desire to fulfill her father's dying wishes, and to get her sister away from Marcus.  She however cannot avoid her attraction to her sister's intended, even as she uses her body to taunt him and distract him.  I will not provide too many spoilers here for those who have not read the book, but I will say that things do not turn out either as Nesta or as Marcus intended.  Loyalties are challenged, and difficult decisions sometimes rest on half-truths (or half-lies) and omissions of the truth. <br />Some old friends from Hunter's earlier books (published earlier, that is) appear in this work.  We meet David (hero of BY ARRANGEMENT) some years before his own marriage;  we meet Addis (hero of BY POSSESSION) as a proud father but also a mentor to Mark.  And we see a bit of Joan and Rhys (protagonists in BY DESIGN, the prequel to this work).  It is always good to see old friends.<br />There are some problems with this work.  First, I cannot buy the plot entirely for historical reasons.  That is my particular problem.  Secondly, this book lacks the historical detail, the specifics of geography, economy, and everyday life that made her first four books such a delight to read.  I did not get as vivid a sense of being there on the Welsh marches or in London as I had hoped.   Thirdly, the characters seem to lack the emotional intensity that her protagonists in earlier books had.  Somehow, I cannot connect to Marcus or to Nesta.  Her goals are understandable, but it is easier to relate to smaller causes or a quest for personal vengeance than a Grand Cause.  No new secondary characters appear who match those in earlier books.  This book could have done much more with Addis, David, Joan, and Rhys as well.  We see them in glimpses here and there, and for the mostpart, they seem pale shadows of what they are in their own books.  [I do not know if this is a good thing, because they could have taken over this story, or a bad thing].<br />I do wish that the book had a different title, because the title derives from comments made by Marcus that seemed like purple prose.   While the writing is good (as always), I felt that hte book needed a little editing (two \\"vague smiles\\" from David within three pages was a bit too much).  These may seem like petty things, but Madeline's titles have been so good for her first four books.<br />Finally, I wish to add that the label given to the heroine did not make sense given what was revealed about herself and the King, nor did her admission to Marcus make sense either.  This part of the story could have done with a little more fleshing out.<br />I would have liked to rated this book higher, but while it was a good review, it lacked that emotional intensity, that tension, that complexity that the best books of hers have had for me.  I am measuring Hunter against Hunter.  In any other author, I would rate this book at least half a grade higher.   Even among the better romances I have read this year, this is not a keeper for me, nor is it a book that demands an immediate re-read.   Either quality would have merited a higher grade. <br />Grade = B<br />Rating = 3.9 (B)<BR>Breakdown = romance element 3.8 (B); characterization 3.6 (B-); plot development 3.9 (B); writing 4.3 (B+)	2002-08-12
US	50375720	R3RDH1JPDTS007	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best of the Dark books, perhaps.	I realize that many others have different favorites among the Dark books.  In terms of a feisty heroine (one who actually stands up to the hero), DARK GUARDIAN is much better.  In terms of a truly tortured (mentally) hero who becomes a passionate lover, some prefer DARK MAGIC.  I however consider this story - that of Jacques (younger brother of Mikhail, in DARK PRINCE) and a half-human half-Carpathian doctor Shea - to be the best in the ouevre.<br />This is an unusual book in more ways than one.  The heroine's identity - that her father is Carpathian and her mother a human (who was *not* converted) - is one.  Shea is also a very gifted doctor, and of course a psychic human female.  One who also needs to drink blood, but cannot bring herself to do so, so she survives with frequent transfusions.  The hero is a truly tormented hero, in that we meet him at the very lowest point of his life.  He has been tortured and locked into a coffin, where he has somehow survived physically but with his mental powers and his sanity largely gone.  [Did I mention that this book in particular is not for the squeamish?].   Shea rescues him from the coffin only to have him turn on her and nearly kill her.  Even when he claims her as his lifemate, he is capable of inflicting pain on her - not something that we expect from the usual Carpathian hero.  Jacques of course is not in full control of his sanity.   And both he and Shea are in serious danger - from a betrayer among the Carpathians and from a group of humans hunting vampires and Carpathians alike.<br />For those wondering - Carpathians are not vampires.  Vampires are Carpathians who have \\"turned\\", who have chosen to experience the brief rush of power when they kill rather than destroy themselves when the temptation is great.  And the temptation is great indeed.  Without a lifemate, male Carpathians lose emotions and their ability to see in color some 200 years into their long lives.  Without a lifemate, male Carpathians are in danger of turning. And virtually no female Carpathians are being born.  There is quite an imbalance in the sex-ratio, and the entire race seems doomed.<br />This was not a very easy book to read.  There seemed to be less purple prose in it however, and the plot was dramatic enough.  I kept wondering if Jacques would ever regain his sanity, if he would also regain the mental link to others of his kind.  And I also wondered if Shea would adapt successfully to life as a Carpathian, given her resistance to drinking blood (if only from her lifemate).  And for once, the confrontation between the villain of the book and the hero (Jacques) made sense.  The villain was not easy to kill for many many reasons, even after his identity had been discovered.<P...P>Rating = 4.6 (A)<br />Breakdown = romance A- (4.5);  characterization A (4.7);  plot development A (4.8); writing A- (4.4)	2002-08-12
US	50375720	R2YIHWJO6WMNI7	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Starts intriguingly, but lacks historical details...	This book is much better than Hunter's previous work LORD OF A THOUSAND NIGHTS.  It however, does not match up in terms of psychological and emotional intensity to her first four books, particularly her first book BY ARRANGEMENT(which some people hate but I re-read obsessively).  <br />Let me explain how I view this author.  Madeline Hunter is for me one of the strongest writers in the genre of historical romance.  I mourn the fact that she will not be writing more medieval romances (there are so few good writers for medievals), although I am excited about her move to a different time period, one that I am far more familiar with.   The reason why Hunter is an auto-buy author for me is that her plots are (almost) always different and challenging.  Her heroes and heroines are complex characters, who merit closer examination through re-reads.  There is enough historical detail to ponder over during each re-read - and to feel that I am right there in that city, or that hamlet or that castle or fortress.  I also learn something new from her best books, whether it is the fact that medieval people sometimes had more sophisticated toilet facilities than suspected, or the fact that trade was more extensive than I had thought.<br />Stealing Heaven begins with a great scene - a man (the hero Marcus of Anglesmore) is climbing a garden wall to sneak a look at his betrothed.  Why is his betrothed avoiding him?  Why is this man so determined to view his bride, if he cannot avoid this marriage?  Why does he have to marry her?  Great questions.  The plot thickens when Marcus discovers that he encountered the sister of the woman he is to marry, and that she is forbidden to him both by the laws of the church (after he marries) and by the fact that she was Edward III's mistress \\"the King's ....\\"  <br />We have met Marcus as young Mark in BY DESIGN, where he was the heroine's younger brother and a definite brat.  He is older, more mature. He has not however come wholly to terms with theevents of his childhood.  It is not necessary to read BY DESIGN first, but some things about Mark make more sense if you have read that story first (or later).  <br />Nesta is more of an enigma.  She is consumed by her desire to fulfill her father's dying wishes, and to get her sister away from Marcus.  She however cannot avoid her attraction to her sister's intended, even as she uses her body to taunt him and distract him.  I will not provide too many spoilers here for those who have not read the book, but I will say that things do not turn out either as Nesta or as Marcus intended.  Loyalties are challenged, and difficult decisions sometimes rest on half-truths (or half-lies) and omissions of the truth. <br />Some old friends from Hunter's earlier books (published earlier, that is) appear in this work.  We meet David (hero of BY ARRANGEMENT) some years before his own marriage;  we meet Addis (hero of BY POSSESSION) as a proud father but also a mentor to Mark.  And we see a bit of Joan and Rhys (protagonists in BY DESIGN, the prequel to this work).  It is always good to see old friends.<br />There are some problems with this work.  First, I cannot buy the plot entirely for historical reasons.  That is my particular problem.  Secondly, this book lacks the historical detail, the specifics of geography, economy, and everyday life that made her first four books such a delight to read.  I did not get as vivid a sense of being there on the Welsh marches or in London as I had hoped.   Thirdly, the characters seem to lack the emotional intensity that her protagonists in earlier books had.  Somehow, I cannot connect to Marcus or to Nesta.  Her goals are understandable, but it is easier to relate to smaller causes or a quest for personal vengeance than a Grand Cause.  No new secondary characters appear who match those in earlier books.  This book could have done much more with Addis, David, Joan, and Rhys as well.  We see them in glimpses here and there, and for the most part, they seem pale shadows of what they are in their own books.  [I do not know if this is a good thing, because they could have taken over this story, or a bad thing].<br />I do wish that the book had a different title, because the title derives from comments made by Marcus that seemed like purple prose.   While the writing is good (as always), I felt that hte book needed a little editing (two \\"vague smiles\\" from David within three pages was a bit too much).  These may seem like petty things, but Madeline's titles have been so good for her first four books.<br />Finally, I wish to add that the label given to the heroine did not make sense given what was revealed about herself and the King, nor did her admission to Marcus make sense either.  This part of the story could have done with a little more fleshing out.<br />I would have liked to rated this book higher, but while it was a good read, it lacked that emotional intensity, that tension, that complexity that the best books of hers have had for me. It was not a compelling read, although I managed to stay with the book till the end (more because I was discussing it with another reviewer).<br />I am measuring Hunter against Hunter.  In any other author, I would rate this book at least half a grade higher (a B+).   However, even among the better romances I have read this year, this is not a keeper for me because of the compelling plot and characterization.  Nor is it a book that demands an immediate re-read because it is so good that I felt I did not do it justice the first time around.   Either quality would have merited a higher grade (an A- or an A). <br />Grade = B<br />Rating = 3.9 (B)<BR>Breakdown = romance element 3.8 (B); characterization 3.6 (B-); plot development 3.9 (B); writing 4.3 (B+)	2002-08-12
US	50375720	R3QAP7YH08C31Y	0061080780	26193415	A Bed of Spices: Bed of Spices, A (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Fantastic medieval romance in unusual setting...	This is going to be a very short review, because I won't really be able to do this book justice.  The story is set in Strassburg 1348 (the time when the Black Death has just arrived in Europe).  The protagonists are Solomon, a trainee physician, who is the son of a prosperous Jewish merchant;  and Rica (Frederica), the daughter of a \\"new\\" nobleman.  Both face familial constraints, but they are also divided by their religions, their class, and the expectations each family has of them.  Rica is expected by her father to marry a rather religious German nobleman who cannot tell her apart from her mentally and emotionally disturbed twin sister Etta.  Solomon is expected to become a physician, and then to marry a suitable Jewish girl.  Add to all this, the fact that Rica and Solomon meet each other secretly at the cottage of her father's mistress (the local wisewoman).  Add to this, the fact that mobs are beginning to massacre Jews all over Europe, believing them responsible for the Black Death.  Don't worry, our hero and heroine survive - although their sanity is often tested, along with their commitment to each other.<br />This is one romance I am keeping.  It is well worth several re-reads, for the complex social interactions as well as the sheer beauty of the relationship.  To learn more about the book, buy a book (used, I'm afraid!), or check out the review at All About Romance which clued me into this wonderful book.	2002-08-07
US	50375720	R291YOEI18ZUW7	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Promising, yet disappointing...	...If you are wondering about the Dark series, and whether to start, here are some tips:<br />1) Christine Feehan writes about vampire-like beings, the Carpathians... Feehan creates an entire society - the Carpathians - whose original homeland was in what is now Romania, Moldova, (and perhaps part of western Ukraine).  <br />3) Carpathians have their own biological laws of existence...  <br />4) To add to this, new facts are discovered in almost every book, with the discord between old facts and new being explained by the failure to pass on knowledge between generations, thanks to a massive catastrophe...  <br />5) The balance of power between males and females is very uneven, partly because of the highly skewed sex ratio (a premise that I find fascinating), and partly because of the nature of male Carpathians themselves.  This is shown in the relationships of males and females in each and every book, except in DARK GUARDIAN which is a bit unusual. [And of course, if you cannot stand the thought of vampires or vampire-like creatures, or intensely purple love scenes, avoid the entire series].<br />Now to the review of this title proper:<br />DARK GUARDIAN is the latest of the Carpathian (or Dark series) books to hit the shelves.  Further books are forthcoming for those completely addicted, although they come out only once a year.  The series starts with DARK PRINCE (where we meet the leader of this people), and is currently at the 8th book (not including a novella \\"Dark Dream\\").  <br />   The hero of DARK GUARDIAN is highly unusual.  Lucian is one of twin ancient Carpathians who have hunted vampires (male Carpathians who have \\"turned\\", or started killing their victims) for about 2000 years.  It was far more fun reading about [Lucian] and speculating about his actions and motivations, than reading Gabriel's story.  How does Lucian then fare in his book?...I have to confess that I ended up skipping the love scenes because they were too many, and too purple.  <br />Thebook disappointed me in the end, because of the ending...  <br />I have mixed feelings about the Dark series, after having read just about all the books (DARK GOLD aside).  Some are clearly better than others, notably this one.  Some are far more moving than others, and you feel that the hero and heroine are genuinely matched, as in DARK DESIRE.  But as a whole... discrepancies between what was believed and what is now known are explained away too easily. There are also major discontinuities in chronology between the books (and the lifespans of the characters who appear in them). <br />...  In the Dark series, we are limited to about one hundred years (with the occasional unreliable flashback to some 500 years back).  Feehan does American settings well, but she Americanizes her foreign settings (with no allowances for history, geography or local customs). I was attracted to the series by the idea of a society with a skewed sex-ratio, but Carpathian society and its mores is not exactly what I was looking for.<br />Rating for this book = 4.3 (B+), deduction of 0.3 for the ending.<BR>Rating for the series as a whole = 3.3 (C+)<br />Comment = series addictive on first couple of reads, but does not stand up well to close scrutiny.	2002-08-07
US	50375720	RCE43K8WREQYO	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	4	31	34	N	N	Greek history and mythology in TT romance	FANTASY LOVER is a time-travel romance that combines Greek history, Greek mythology, with the angst of a couple who seem fated to be parted as soon as they appreciate each other.<br />At the outset, 29-year-old sex therapist Grace Alexander is offered a gorgeous naked man Julian of Macedon, a former Spartan general.  Julian has been trapped in a book via a spell by a jealous minor god.  The spell requires him to appear to any woman who calls him out, and he is at her bidding and control until the next full moon.   Julian lived over 2000 years ago, but he has managed to keep abreast of current events since he can hear conversations that take place near the book.  His past \\"owners\\" have been interested only in his body, and have treated him worse than a slave (very little food, and no clothing).<br />His new owner Grace does the unexpected. Firstly, she is not too thrilled to have Julian appear. Secondly, she refuses to make use of him - unlike all his previous \\"owners.\\" Thirdly, she treats him as a human being, feeding him, clothing him, and talking to him. <br />The book works mostly because of Julian. He is gorgeous and an alpha-male, but a sensitive alpha.  He adapts reasonably well to modern life (despite a hilarious but disastrous driving lesson).  He is also trying to break free of the spell, to return to his own time period.  This is one TT hero who is not interested in modern miracles;  his greatest desire is firstly to be free of the spell, and then to return to his own time.  <br />Grace is a complicated and not entirely satisfactory heroine.  She is a genuinely nice person obviously.  But as a romantic heroine, she is a bit of a dud.  She has let one bad experience color all her feelings about men and sex.  She is also not particularly suited for her job as a sex therapist (or she seems to attract all the wackoes as clients).  <br />The joy of the book is in the details of their evolving relationship.  The book is not so much about sex, as about what happens between a couple where their relationship is doomed to be short-lived from the outset.  If the spell cannot be broken, then will Grace risk emotional commitment for a stirring affair that lasts only until Julian disappears back into the book?  If the spell can be broken, will Julian return to his time or will he stay in Grace's time?  And can Grace herself commit to this gorgeous man who is the epitome of every woman's fancy, not just in his looks but in his character.  [Well, he has some baggage from his actions before the spell was cast...]<br />The one problem with this book was a minor sub-plot which did not quite ring true.   It did allow Julian to show how deeply he cares for Grace.  I would wish though that this sub-plot had been dropped or changed.  I would also have liked to have heard a bit more about Julian's experiences through time.<br />Finally, a couple of warnings.   If you are not familiar with either Greek mythology or ancient classical history, you might find this book rather confusing. A little afterword or an introductory note would have helped.   <br />This book is also not quite what I expected, in the sense that the actual consummation of the relationship came pretty late, and it was not what was expected either.  If you are looking for something burning in the style of Schone, Small etc, this is not it.  Nor is it filled with the requisite three or four long-drawn out love scenes in most books labelled as \\"hot\\".  The heat, such as it is, comes more from the anticipation -  from Julian's thoughts as he interacts with Grace, and Grace's own thoughts about Julian.  <br />The book works mostly because of Julian, who is a tragic and tormented hero. Through the book, you learn more and more about his past and his character, until you begin to wonder to what extent his own character flaws played a part in his being trapped, and to what extent the jealousies of other people played a part. <br />My major problem with the book (the sub-plot aside)is that I never felt very involved with the characters, even with Julian. <BR>I don't know why this was so, perhaps because I did not get a full understanding of Julian's history and background until nearly the end, and perhaps because I failed to relate to Grace (even though she was nice).   This may not be your problem.    <br />I was also disappointed not to hear more about Julian's experiences in different time periods.   On the other hand, I loved the use of books and reading aloud in this story.  This was a very good smooth read, which just falls a step short of being a keeper. <br />Recommendation = Recommended highly to lovers of Greek history and myth, and less highly to lovers of time-travel romance.<br />Grade = 4.2 (B+)<BR>Breakdown = romance element 4.1 (B+); characterization 3.8 (B-); plot development 4.2 (B+); writing 4.3 (B+).	2002-08-06
US	50375720	R11ZKR6QOBJDUE	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fantastic introduction to the world of the Sidhe	This is the second Laurell K. Hamilton book that I have devoured in one evening (two different evenings, fortunately!).  A KISS OF SHADOWS introduces a different kind of paranormal being - the faeries (or the Sidhe, divided into the Seelie and the UnSeelie, whose differences seem minor), the brownies, and a variety of other beings, including the slaugh (trolls? hags? definitely underworld, anyway).   <br />In Merry Gentry's world, there are many human beings who have a trace of faerie ancestry (and are thus fey).  There is also one interesting selkie who has survived the loss of his skin.  Oh, and there is the tabloid press and the paparazzi, including one particularly intrusive scumbag.<br />The story has been summarized by others, and reacted to either positively or negatively.  I like this writer (fast, fun, engrossing reads), and I am not attached to Anita Blake.  So my review is from the perspective of what works, and what does not. What works is the plot:  there is a mystery at work, although the solution becomes clear some time before the end.  <br />Who is trying to kill Merry Gentry (or Princess Meredith nicEssus), and why?  How does Merry fit in or not fit into the UnSeelie Court? What are Merry's feelings about the members of the Court, and about the members of the Queen's Guard?  How does she relate to her human and fey friends?  Will life at the UnSeelie Court tempt her away from life as a private investigator?  These questions are partially answered in this first book;  we cannot know of course, whether Merry will end up with a foot in either world, and what the hidden goals and needs of all the characters are.  <br />In this first book, Merry comes into her full powers (including the ability to reverse living beings inside out through the Hand of Flesh) via sex.  She has a healthy attitude to sex, although she will not sleep with anyone who is ugly, mean/cruel, or stupid. [Quite reasonable objections].  If you object to a heroine who is quite happy with multiple partners, stop right here.  Avoid this book, the rest of the series, and the rest of the Anita Blake series (starting with NARCISSUS IN CHAINS) as well.  I find such a heroine interesting, and more in sync with many modern women.  Laurell Hamilton does not write romances (where the ideal is one man and one woman);  she writes paranormal horror cum suspense cum fantasy.  The romantic element is there, but it is not your conventional romance(s). <br />I found myself interested in the deeper issues of the book, as mentioned by another reviewer.  What exactly is the difference between Seelie and UnSeelie, other than adherence to a standard of looks (or lack of such adherence)?  When did this schism happen?  What exactly happened in the wars between the faerie (or Sidhe) and the humans?  Is the situation in Europe really that different from that in the USA?  I wish that the author had included a vocabulary, but otherwise, I found the book sufficiently interesting that I supplied my own meanings for several terms rather than backtrack.  I also regretted the dropping of Merry's concerns about the human part of her life while she was at the UnSeelie Court (although I appreciate that she had some major problems).  <br />Rating = 4.4 (A-)<BR>Breakdown = Paranormal, fantasy & horror, i.e. genre-specific elements 4.8 (A+);  writing 4.4 (B+);  plot development 4.3 (B+);  characterization 4.8 (A).  Glossary, or list of different types of paranormal beings badly needed (0.3 deduction)<br />Recommended = highly, if you like paranormal/horror/fantasy, and enjoy strong female protagonists. An exceptional start, with some minor problems.	2002-08-05
US	50375720	R14T1K2D6VI0R8	0373167776	222722999	Surprise -- You'Re A Daddy (4 Tots For 4 Texans)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Competent romance, although typecast...	If you are a fan of &quot;baby&quot; romances (romances including babies and pregnancies), Judy Christenberry seems to deliver, judging by the one book I read and the plot summaries offered of several other books.  While I am not fond of this particular plot type, I tried Christenberry wondering how someone who wrote Regencies would deal with contemporary American life.  The jury is still out on that.<br />This particular book is Book 2 in 4 Tots for 4 Texans.  It begins with the wedding of Cal and Jessica (from the first book), and hints at the futures of the other two friends.  The hero is a Texan cattle rancher, who like his friends, has no real need to work, since he has oil wealth.  [In romance-world, all Texan ranchers seem to have oil money!].  <br />The heroine Melanie is a young woman, an employee of Jessica's restaurant (who works a second job at the pharmacy).  At the beginning, she is mourning Cal's wedding since she saw him as the ideal husband for her.  Why? Because he is a lawman, lawmen are supposed to be steady and responsible, and she has this thing about responsibility in future husbands.  <br />Her mother (who never appears in the novel but seems thoroughly self-centered) has drummed into Melanie's head that it was Melanie's fault that her parents' marriage collapsed.  Thus, when Melanie becomes pregnant, she is adamantly opposed to marriage just for the sake of the baby, fearing that Spence will walk out on her as her own father left her mother.   Melanie is now struggling to remain independent, to a point that is almost ridiculous (she will not accept money from Spence, even though he is the child's father).  <br />Part of the problem in her relationship with Spence is that they completely fail to communicate.  She does not share her fears from her childhood, and she does not tell him the truth at critical times.  Spence believes in showing a woman he loves her by, well, showing her (through his actions).  But Melanie wants the words, and eventhen, she feels insecure.<br />To add to her problems, she is trying to buy a store, and the owners will sell only to a married woman. And there is the well-meaning interference of Spence's mom Edith, who misunderstands something her son told her.  Fortunately for Spence and Melanie, they have good friends and the problem with Spence's mom is sorted out fairly quickly.  <br />One of the charms of this book (apart from the fact that it was a quick read) was the interactions between Melanie and Edith, and Melanie and Jessica, as well as the interactions between several secondary characters.  They were not as well-fleshed out as I would have liked (probably owing to the word limits), but I felt that Spence and Melanie were living in a real town with real people.  Unfortunately, the hero and heroine did not seem quite as real to me as the secondary characters did.  I could not understand what the attraction between Spence and Melanie was, lust and the pregnancy aside.  Melanie felt a bit unreal to me, and I had insufficient history for Spence.  Readers of the entire series might find more enlightenment than I did.<br />Rating = 3.9 (B)<BR>Breakdown = romance element 3.9 (B);  characterization 3.9 (B); plot development 3.6 (B-); writing 4.2 (B+)<BR>Recommended = as a fairly good romance with a pregnancy or two, but no actual babies	2002-08-05
US	50375720	R26BIZA9NTRW6L	0380818639	920051939	The Conquest	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Sweet but not spectacular...	This is a perfectly competent Regency historical from Layton, one of my favorite Regency authors.  It is not however her best work or even her best Regency.  I will explain why.<br />The storyline has been summarized well by others.  Those not familiar with the characters in her \\"C\\" series (five books) or who have read only one or two a long while ago (like me) will probably not be quite as charmed with the reappearance of certain characters all at once.  [Let me say first that Layton is known for subtle references to her minor characters such as the Swansons in early Regencies, and that Lord Wycoff at least appears in a story A LOVE FOR ALL SEASONS in an eponymous anthology as early as 1992].  <br />I have not read many of her historicals.  And of those I have read, many have been her non-Regency historicals or her Signet Super Regencies.  I am therefore judging this book solely on its own merits.  There is enough backstory to understand that the Earl of Drummond, or \\"Drum\\" has several friends who are very closely-knit.  This book spends a lot of time on these friends who are the secondary characters (they have or will have their own books).   While this is an attraction for lovers of the entire series, also detracts somewhat from the emphasis on the romance in *this* book, per se.<br />The story itself was not a bad one - although it uses an old plot premise, what makes it different is the way that the plot develops and the secrets in the heroine's past.  <br />A gentleman is seriously injured and must live in the very small home of a young lady who is the mainstay of her small family.  The lady in question is the orphaned daughter of a schoolmaster (and we soon realize that she has her secrets).   Why are Alexandria and her siblings so isolated?  What exactly did their father do to lose a comfortable job at Eton? Is their father, the late schoolmaster, indeed their biological father?  Where is Alexandria's mother?  By the end of the book, these problems are solved.<br />Drum is a man who has been told by his father, a duke, to marry suitably.  He is pondering this issue and realizing that he has never been in love when he is ambushed.  His problem continues even when he realizes that he is attracted to Alexandria.  <br />A schoolmaster's daughter is unthinkable for a duke's heir (by the way, some duke's heirs are only earls or lesser, such as the heirs to the dukes of Norfolk and Somerset, two of the oldest English dukedoms).  It is even worse that Alexandria's father was a radical, a misanthrope, and a thoroughly unlikeable person with no connections to the aristocracy.  It is not that no aristocrats have married beneath them in the past, but that Drum's ideas of marriages are tied to his father's ideas - and his father believes firmly in marriage within the aristocracy.  Anyone who does less is a fool and makes himself ridiculous in the eyes of society.  In this, Drum is actually reasonably consistent with the mindset of a typical Regency aristocrat, although this does not make him the ideal hero for a modern reader.<br />While Drum is recovering first at Alexandria's cottage and then in London, his father and friends are trying to discover who shot Drum and why.  In the process, the father discovers an old friend who married well beneath herself.   No spoilers here, but I would have liked to have seen more of their interactions because the father's actions and words at the end came as a distinct surprise and one which seemed out-of-place.<br />I liked this book, but I did not love it.  Drum, although he had an interesting and historically correct point-of-view, was hard to sympathize with - partly because of his rigid views about marriage inherited from his father.  <br />The focus was also mostly on the other characters, partly because of Drum's immobility, partly because not much happens from time to time.  As interesting as this was, it detracted from the time that the author could show the interactions between Drum and Alexandria.  And there was a long separation between hero and heroine as well.<br />I found the resolution of the romance a bit unsatisfying.  Obviously, Drum and Alexandria are meant for each other, birth and all. But the father's changed opinion seemed rather abrupt, to put it mildly.  <br />The intrigue element on the other hand is well-done, and not the theme not one that has been used too often. How the hero and heroine escape was very well done indeed and definitely a different touch from the usual \\"climb out of the window\\" scenario.<br />This is a well-written by someone who knows her period, but it was more for lovers of the entire series.    It also has some problems as a romance.  I suspect that THE CONQUEST will appeal more to readers who don't necessarily want the romance upfront and the couple involved with each other from the outset, and above all, readers who don't mind a slow read with lots of secondary characters who take up considerable space.  Not being a conventional reader, I don't mind such a book, but other readers might have problems (please note my ratings breakdown below).  By the conventions of the romance genre, THE CONQUEST is a flawed romance.<br />Rated = 3.8 (B) <BR>Breakdown = romance element graded at 2.7 (C-; 25%), writing at 4.5 (A-; 25%), characterization (of protagonists and secondary characters) at 3.8 (B; 25%), plot development at 4.5 (A-; 25%). <br />Recommended = with mild reservations	2002-07-30
US	50375720	R3NJ5VXFHMLKC2	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cinderella meets medieval fantasy or stepmother reality	Charming the Prince is a sweet and funny, if slightly unrealistic, take on a medieval Cinderella meeting her prince.  The hero - Lord Bannor the Bold, of Elsinore Castle [Hamlet, anyone?] - is a very fertile hero, so fertile that his children are his biggest problem.  He has a parenting and discipline problem, so he sends off messengers to search for a suitable mother, er, wife, to manage his brood.  Oh, and she must not be a beauty, because he wants no more children.<br />And so, Lady Willow is chosen to be his bride - entirely by mistake.  She has hopes of a true Prince in need of her specifically, who will rescue her from a miserable drab existence as a medieval Cinderella from her remarkably fertile and poisonous stepmother.  And she finds her Prince - except that he comes with several children, some of them infant-in-arms.  Lord Bannor apparently is father to many bastards whom he takes in and raises as his own.  And his children are all sorely in need of discipline.<br />But they also desperately crave their father's love and attention.  And so a plan of action begins, with some remarkable reverse psychology used in the process.  Just when things are beginning to look up, Cinderella, er, Willow's wicked step-mother and step-brother show up, complete with her ineffectual father.<br />This was fun reading, and I smiled and laughed at points.  It is however not a book that I would really consider re-reading or keeping in my collection.  Perhaps it is the subject matter, perhaps it is the feeling that I failed to identify with two beautiful persons - the hero Bannor or the heroine Willow (despite all of Bannor's good points).  <br />If you like mildly wacky humor, especially situational humor,  this book is fast and fun reading. If you always wanted to read a book from a stepmother's point of view, this is also a great book (especially since it combines that with humor).  A good (if serious) Regency romance from the stepmother's point of view is Catherine Blair'sA FAMILY FOR GILLIAN.  <br />If you detest children in romances, or detest a plethora of Marys and Margarets, avoid this book, however!  [You knew that, right?]<br />If you are a fan of Cinderella-themed novels and romances, do try this book. [There are other romances using the same theme, but none set in the Regency period that I can recall].  Fans of the film EVER AFTER (starring Drew Barrymore) might want to try this book for the wacky humor, and the unexpected behavior of one step-sister.	2002-07-29
US	50375720	R2CSEOJ9Y5OS0P	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious in unabridged audio...	I have now listened to this particular audio version (by Barbara Rosenblat, Recorded Books) three times in a row, which tells me that a) the book is very very funny (and I enjoyed it!);  b) this particular adaptation is very good.  <br />Unfortunately, this particular edition is not available via Amazon.com but there is an abridged version available. Check your public library for the Rosenblat version if you want the full fix.<br />I have both books in the Bridget Jones saga.  While I read and enjoyed them both, the audio version brings out the full zaniness of this creation.  It is hard to refrain from giggling (at work) while listening to particular episodes. Even Bridget's time in a Thai jail becomes hilarious when she is pondering on how to produce a baby with a boring young diplomat rather than have her child-bearing years wasted.  The Colin Firth interview is a notable highlight, but so are the descriptions of Bridget's brushes with the British police and the description of Jude's wedding (starting from her dress disaster to the telegraph from Tom).  Even that no-good handyman becomes a living breathing person.<br />I believe that it helps to have read BRIDGET JONES'S DIARY, but in some respects, this book can stand alone.  For me, it brilliantly answers the question - What happens after \\"Happily Ever After?\\"<br />Rating = 4.9<BR>Recommended = Very Highly, for Rosenblat's rendition of several characters.	2002-07-29
US	50375720	R1QLH6KA8EZC18	0440126851	520396677	Fortune's Bride	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Looking for a Regency set in the days of Cintra and Corunna?	There are not too many Regencies that include in gritty detail the forced march to Corunna ordered by Sir John Moore, and the horrors that took place during that march.  If you loved Marjorie Farrell's Red Red Rose or Georgette Heyer's The Spanish Bride, and you want to read a romance set in the slightly earlier days of the Peninsular campaign, try FORTUNE'S BRIDE.  It comes after the Heiress series (The English Heiress, set just before the Reign of Terror in France;  The Cornish Heiress; and the Kent Heiress) and characters from these three books appear or are mentioned in FORTUNE'S BRIDE.<br />The hero is Robert Moreton, the youngest son of the Earl of Moreton, who is army-mad, so much so that although his loving parents try to enlist him on Sir John Moore's staff, he decamps to India to fight with Arthur Wellesley at Assaye and follows this particular star to South America and then the Peninsula.  As one of the favored staff officers, he has many privileges but also many responsibilities, including the duty of collecting as many transport animals (mules and horses) as possible from the Portuguese countryside.  It is on one such collecting expedition that Moreton finds an Englishwoman apparently being held hostage in a Portuguese village.  Well, she is not really being held hostage, but the headman would like her to marry his son.<br />Esmeralda Talbot is of good family, but she has been socially isolated both from British society in England and Ireland, and from British society in India.  Her father was an odd unpleasant man packed off to India where he amassed a fortune but lived as meanly as possible.  This style of living however has given Esmeralda (or Merry as she was once called) a backbone and the ability to put up with tough conditions.  That is fortunate, because firstly she has to live with an unpleasant father, and then to cope with a shipwreck and his subsequent death in an isolated Portuguese village (when Portugal is under French occupation), and then to ward off the attentions of the headman's son.  Robert Moreton rescues her from this sordid situation but he must marry her to preserve her reputation.  Their marriage, he assures her, will be one in name only.<br />Esmeralda rapidly makes herself at home in the British army, winning the approval and admiration of Wellington's other young staff officers both for her ability to cope with difficult circumstances and for her ability to talk reasonably about military matters.  She follows her husband around Portugal and then after Wellington has been superseded, into Spain with Sir John Moore.  At some point, the marriage is consummated.  Robert is convinced however that his wife is not in love with him, and he is not of course in love with her.  [There is an almost-farcical scene with Colborne, a name known to lovers of Peninsular Regencies, where he is assured otherwise].  <br />The couple travel into northern Spain with an assorted retinue - Esmeralda's maid and her husband (Robert's servant and groom), a young Portuguese boy Carlos, two mules, and for sometime, even a dancing bear.  The retreat to Corunna is devastating not just for the British army's morale, but nearly for Esmeralda and her retinue.  She is sent off to Robert's family in London, quaking that they do not want her and worried about Robert.  Will Robert's family accept her?  How will Robert react to her secret?  Will he survive the rear-guard action?  And, if he does, will Esmeralda be able to return to the Peninsula and follow the drum with him?   The mistakes Robert and Esmeralda make in their relationship and in other dealings are perfectly reasonable ones.  <br />This book is not a typical Gellis romance, in that there are many many historical figures (military types, mostly) who crop in very realistic situations.  The book has two maps which are useful in allowing us to follow the hero and heroine on their travels.  For those looking for a more substantial romance set in the Peninsular Wars,try this book.<br />Rating = 4.7<BR>Recommended = Very Highly.	2002-07-28
US	50375720	RJ9TG6U3B67L5	0451205278	504886122	A Rival Heir (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Warm romance about non-feisty heroine.	Both kellytwo and tregatt have done a good job summarizing the plot and the characters, so I will confine myself to a summary of what I liked and did not like in this book.<br />I loved the fact that the heroine was not feisty (even though I would have liked her to have started asking questions earlier!).  Nell Armstrong is actually far more typical of a Regency woman than the majority of Regency heroines.  She has made a promise to a maternal grandfather who never acknowledged her as his legitimate granddaughter and who never bothered to confirm her legitimacy.  She intends to keep that promise even though it might cost her marriage and also fortune.  The gem in this show is certainly Nell's aunt Rosemarie Longstreet, a woman who detests babies and liked her godson only when he was a little boy.  Aunt Rosemarie is plotting something through the book, but what it is is not discovered until close to the denouement.  [And yes, I was a little taken back when the secret was revealed].  Rosemarie is capable of turfing an earl out from her house, and also of browbeating inferiors.  Although she is parsimonious with her niece, she is not actively cruel to her.  That is what keeps her interesting.<br />The hero is not perfect of course.  Sir Hugh Nowlin has taken his inheritance for granted and is alarmed at the prospect of a rival heir (hence the title). Yet, his desire to keep his inheritance does not interfere with his sense of justice.  He finds himself attracted to Nell, despite her old-fashioned clothing, and her aunt's refusal to go into society except on her own terms.<br />The secondary characters are all attractive and come alive - from Sir Hugh Nowlin's interfering do-gooder but well-meaning sister Emily, her husband John Holmsley, the library Richard Bentley, and so many others.  <br />What I did not like is the fact that the ending was a little too pat.  The earl's desire to make amends was understandable, but the form it took seemed a trifle excessive, as didthe apparent willingness of Aunt Longstreet by the end to consider his proposals.  On the other hand, I had no problems with Nell's brilliant solution to her problem - how to keep her word, and yet get married to the man she loves.   There was also occasionally a little too much attention paid to secondary characters (I kept wondering about the librarian, and about John Holmsley's financial situation) which might detract a bit from the emphasis on the main story.<br />This book is a slow, but not too slow, read.  If you like traditional Regencies which are &quot;kisses&quot; only, this is perfect.<br />I am a fan of Laura Matthews and have read much of her backlist.  A Rival Heir is far superior to some of her more recent books.  While it does not match up to the best of her backlist (A Very Proper Widow, The Seventh Suitor, and some others), this is still a great book and one of the best new Regencies I have read this year.  <br />Those who love books set in Bath might also want to read Matthews's A Holiday in Bath (another story about secret pasts), or any of the three Heyer regencies that take place mostly in Bath (Bath Tangle, Black Sheep, or A Lady of Quality). <br />Rated = 4.3<BR>Recommended = Highly	2002-07-24
US	50375720	R20SVEKDX6CTZ1	0515131121	936539516	Dear Impostor (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Additional comments...	On the first try at reading this book, I did not like the cover (which seemed amateurish) or for that matter, the story despite the promising beginning.  I set the book down for a couple of weeks, during which I indulged a vampire/erotic fix.  When I came back to the book, I was much more forgiving of the cover, of the story itself (writing style, plots and all).  <br />There are significant jumps in logic (or errors, if you will) starting from the fact that there were few marquesses (not marquises) in the Irish peerage (or for that matter in the British peerage), and any one could have challenged Gabriel's identity from the start.  I chose not to penalize Nicole Byrd on this point, given the errors made by other authors (including Kelly in MISS MILTON SPEAKS HER MIND).  <br />If this and other problems in logic bother you, avoid this book.  I read it strictly as a piece of fantasy.   I allowed for Gabriel's deception to proceed, for Gabriel's allowing a villain to harrass him without calling in the forces of law and order, for the villain to be obssessed by revenge without his motivations being made clear (although I guessed that his hatred increased over time when Gabriel saved a friend from his cluthes).  If I do not allow for those things, and mark off for other deductions, this book would rate a 3.2 or so.  <br />The writing style is also rather detailed, so if you are not a fan of descriptions of dresses (when the tailors are called in to help Gabriel and at the ball), this book will not please.  This is a fun read, a well-written read, but not perfect.  I treated it as a slightly upmarket Amanda Quick with a more tortured hero, and was perfectly happy when I finished the book.  Others will view this book differently.<br />Rating (taking flaws into account) 3.2<BR>Recommendations - avoid if you dislike errors in logic and hate descriptions of fashion and costume.	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R2CYTSLCCYC2S9	0449213390	510253215	Sir Sham	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A tiny gem, unusual characters.	This is a delightful romance by Marian Devon (of whose work I have read little).  At the beginning, we witness two daughters of the vicar going reluctantly to play music for their grand relations.   The vicar's daughters are not good enough for dinner, but acceptable as unpaid entertainment.  So Miss Haydon (Lucy Haydon) fumes about the situation through the evening, and contrives a way to bring her younger sister Camilla to the notice of the very eligible guest of the evening Mr Carnaby More, who has recently inherited an estate.  While Lucy's aunt Lady Tilney is the usual dragon, Lucy can understand her desperation to marry her daughter off suitably.  Lucy's cousins Ada and Nigel (Lord Tilney) are very nice - no wicked cousins here.  There is a wealth of secondary characters who make the book come alive, from Lady Tilney herself and the gentle absent-minded Reverend Tilney and his socially astute wife (present only at the end of the book) to several smugglers.  <br />Lucy is happy to see Mr Carnaby More taking an interest in her sister, but is less pleased with his friend Mr Jerrold Drury's comments about the relationship or for that matter with Mr Drury's increasing interest in herself. Why does Mr Drury accompany her to her pupil's and why is he so patient with a small boy (from kite-flying to sea-bathing)?  Lucy puzzles that out, as tensions rise within their small gentry circle, and as Mr Drury displays an unhealthy interest in smugglers.  Is he a Preventative (a Customs officer) in disguise?  And are his insinuations about an old friend to be believed? <br />If you are looking for a dark gloomy book filled with high drama this is not it.  There is plenty of wry humor, including Lucy's disastrous attempt at seabathing.  There are a couple of scenes in the graveyard and the pulpit that combine some drama with romance and mild sexual tension.  There is the wonderful ending, where a proposal of marriage is received distinctly casually.    Read the book.<br />Rating = 4.9<BR>Recommended = Very highly.	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R2CLV1TLUP7JT3	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Flawed but fascinating...	This was the first erotic romance that I bought, based on a recommendation from the site All About Romance and a reviewer I respect.  I was not disappointed in the read, although it is not the kind of read I typically enjoy.<br />Those of you familiar with Schone can skip this review, since this is geared more for newcomers like me.  What works in this book is the psychology, the motivations of the protagonists Gabriel and Victoria (both with traumatic childhoods, both with secret desires that have gone unfulfilled, and both with a legacy of shame and suffering).  Gabriel is more in need of therapy than is Victoria, but this is late Victorian England.  So instead of therapy, they have sex over three days and become intimate in other ways.  Victoria is the more daring in that she takes tremendous risks to get close to Gabriel both physically and emotionally.  Gabriel takes his own risks in trying to find a mysterious villain (called \\"the second man\\" in this book) who is out to destroy him and everyone he loves.  <br />I cannot say much more without spoiling the book.  The book starts unconventionally enough with Victoria offering to sell her virginity for a specified sum at a high-class brothel, and thus catches Gabriel's attention.  Gabriel is a former prostitute who has serviced men since his childhood, and who has reinvented himself more than once. Victoria is a former governess dismissed from her last position and reduced to bartering her virtue for the means of survival.  Or is she?  By the end of the book, we find out a lot more about the pasts of these protagonists, and about how pleasure can be used as a form of intimidation, a form of torture, and above all, a form of vengeance.<br />Gabriel's emotions have been warped by his previous experiences.  As a romance, this would not rate very highly since the romance, as it is, comes very late and is unconventional.  This is a story about two people who need each other to survive emotionally, not about two peoplewho love each other. (I would have to give it a 3.8 as a romance).   <br />As a psychological thriller and a work of erotica, this is very nearly perfect.  If I redefine romance to mean the story of a relationship of two human beings (and the assorted baggage they bring with them to the relationship), this works far better.  I am not sure however, that I am ready to call it a romance.  Schone's writing has pushed her into an entirely new genre, perhaps to be called the \\"erotic thriller\\". <br />Rating = 4.3 (deductions reflect the problems of classifying it as a romance)<BR>Recommended = Very Highly.	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R3B4M8UWXKZYES	0553583557	905022111	Lord of a Thousand Nights (Medievals)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good, but not her usual standard...	I read and buy Madeline Hunter (hot off the shelf) because of her elegant writing style, her vivid primary and secondary characters, her attention to historical detail, and above all, the feeling that &quot;I'm there, in the Middle Ages&quot;. And yes, I like a good romance, and lots of luscious love-making thrown into the mix.<br />While this book stands above the usual crop of medieval, I do not frankly think this to be her best work.  It began promisingly with Lady Reyna Graham setting out to re-enact Judith and Holofernes.  It ended with a whimper, oh, with the usual happy ending, but I could care less about Ian and Reyna at that point.  Why?  Perhaps it is the fact that the story line is a bit more cliched than the normal Hunter plot.  Perhaps it is the fact that I never really saw Ian in the process of being redeemed from that ridiculous title he wears.  Perhaps it is the attitude of Reyna herself.  <br />My personal feeling is that her three best books so far are her three first books - By Arrangement, By Possession, and By Design (where Bk 2 is actually the first chronologically).  With Bk 4 - The Protector - Hunter's stories become more independent of what is happening around her protagonists, which I consider to be not so good.  [If you could care less about the history, you won't mind that].  Book 5 employs even less historical detail - which reign, what is happening, what is the situation with the Templars - and you could almost be set in any generic medieval period.<br />Read if you are addicted to the entire series, or if you want to read someone who is a very very good writer (technically).  I almost wish I had skipped this book.<br />Rating = 3.2<BR>Recommended = with reservations	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R1GECF8T5PMJPQ	0515131121	936539516	Dear Impostor (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Solid, well-crafted, and nice sub-plots	This is Nicole Byrd (a mother-and-daughter team)'s second regency, after ROBERT'S LADY.  I picked this book up on a recommendation from a reading list I belong to, and I was not disappointed.  The story has been well-described elsewhere, so I will simply outline my impressions and my rationale for the four-star rating.<br />The book begins excitingly with a stranger being chased by thugs out to get him...   And so begins a fascinating story with some great primary and secondary characters...   There is humor, there is a dark side showing the pitfalls of gambling in sleazy hells, there is a warm romance building up slowly but surely...<br />I loved this story.  The only reason that it got four stars (4.5 actually), and not five, is because of some problems - firstly,...<br />If you want to look at the seedier side of Regency gambling, this book is a must-read.  This also works as a slow-building romance between two people who both stand to lose something - Psyche the opportunity to provide her sister with further training as an artist (as well as her own freedom) and Gabriel his dream of returning home in style.<br />Rating = 4.5<BR>Recommended = Highly	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R1IGSUKNMVPQBT	1575669072	798558310	Awaken, My Love (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Five stars for premise, points off for the rest...	As regular readers of my reviews can tell, I rate my books somewhat differently than others.  Not all my five-star books are keepers, and in fact, I am rather fond of some books that received only three stars.  I rate books by how well they fit into the genre, and what the author does with the same old story - how to breathe life into the hero and heroine, and their love story. <br />I haven't been thinking about this book as much as I have about GABRIEL'S WOMAN (a difficult but fascinating and very dark read).  Yet, this book has its own charm.  The first two chapters are famous (or infamous) and very controversial.  Schone broke the boundaries of the regency genre by portraying an opening scene where the heroine was masturbating.  She follows this up with the equally short and striking second chapter in which the hero is not masturbating, but he must find his own pleasure where his wife will not.<br />This is a story based on the somewhat unlikely premise that a person can travel through time via an orgasm.  Leaving that aside, Schone brings out the realities of a 20th century woman finding herself in late Victorian England very well.  <br />Elaine takes far too long to assert herself against a witchy maid/companion.  She is grappling with several mysteries - firstly, how she has come back in time; secondly, where is the woman whose body she has now come into;  thirdly, what is the relationship between this woman and her husband; and lastly, why is Morrigan (the name of this woman) so peculiar? She investigates these mysteries with some indifference and considerable sloth, because she is far more concerned with protecting the revelation of her real identity (and fears of being thought insane) than in finding out the truth.  Her passivity will cost her precious time, and very nearly, her life.  For most of the book, she does not speak and when she does, her accent appears to have miraculously disappeared or at least not be noticeable to Charles, Morrigan's husband.<br />But in the process, Elaine (in Morrigan's) body will learn much about her body's capacity for pleasure, her stultifying marriage back in the 20th century, and a number of dark family secrets held by Morrigan.   Elaine will also have to question the issues of fidelity.  Is it adultery to have sex with the husband of the woman whose body she possesses inadvertently?  Is it sinful to enjoy those moments?<br />I would have given this book a higher grade except for the following things - firstly, the reappearance of the villain was too overblown, too much over-the-top, and with no explanations as to how the time-travel had been accomplished twice.  Secondly, from the outset, I did not much care for Charles - a man who married blindly without looking carefully, and a man who failed to notice and suspect changes in his wife.  His sex life seemed to be all that mattered, and there was not very much love in his relations with Elaine/Morrigan.  I was also annoyed by Elaine's passivity vis-a-vis Morrigan's original maid and later in other crucial developments.  <br />The book contains Schone's trademark sensuality with a *very hot* pillow book scene, where words accomplish almost as much as caresses.  But I still consider Gabriel's Woman to be the better book of the two Schone books I have read so far, and the short story \\"A Lady's Pleasure\\" to be her masterpiece.<br />Rating: 3.3<BR>Recommended: to lovers of erotic romance; with reservations to all others.	2002-07-22
US	50375720	R13SCQ52NLK1QT	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Lovely cover, book somewhat repetitive..	This is the story of Desari's older brother Darius (who nearly steals the show in Dark Challenge, in which his sister Desari finds her lifemate) and his human lifemate Tempest \\"Rusti\\" Trine. <br />While I like this book and have re-read several parts of it already, I have to say that the book itself is something of a disappointment.   My disappointment was not quite in the same form that my disappointment with Dark Legend (see below) came about.  The problem with this book is the less-than-substantial plot.  The emphasis on repetitive narrative and introspective does not tell us anything new.  Far less happens in this book than in virtually every preceding book.  <br />And worst of all, Tempest changes from an interesting young human female at the beginning to a whiny teenager with authority issues in the middle.  After seeing Desari and Francesca, I had high hopes for the evolution of Feehan's heroines.  Tempest was a bit of a setback.  Darius of course is very much in the model of the classic Feehan hero, a super-alpha - but he is significantly different from others, in that he allows Tempest her own way in something very important.<br />The sad thing is that this book could have been so much more, given the fascinating premise.    There is a remarkable potential conflict set up, which could have been so important in the series.  However, it is disposed of remarkably easily in the book. Too easily, in fact. <br />And a wonderful potential book (the story of the womanizing Barack and the ancient female Carpathian Syndil) is disposed of in a small sub-plot.  With the seeming resolution of nearly all their problems, will be it be interesting when they reappear in future novels?  <br />This is a classic Feehan in many ways. Human female who converts to Carpathian.  Carpathian male who is super-protective, etc etc.   In other ways, it is not - it is the second book about the Lost Children, and it does set up some interesting potential conflicts with the rest of Carpathian society.  Two of the males exhibit behaviors that are *not* typical of Carpathian males at large, and <gasp> you actually have four Carpathian males - only one of them with a lifemate - living and working together in a society not known for its chumminess.  I wish that this theme stood out more in the book.  For me, it almost got lost in Feehan's somewhat rambling narrative. <br />Rating = 3.5<BR>Recommended = to fans of the series.	2002-07-19
US	50375720	R13T8UB7ECUMSF	0451143019	569820193	Indian Maiden (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Lovely cover, and a love quandrangle or triangle?	First, my hats off to Signet and the artist for actually paying attention to the plot.  The dress worn by the heroine on the cover is the almost exact match of the dress as described at a certain event in the book.  And what a dress!  Enough to make me happy with the book.  And then, the hero does not hurt either.<br />THE INDIAN MAIDEN is a somewhat usual Layton (in that she has introduced love triangles with the heroine and two contending hero possibles earlier in THE DUKE'S WAGER and LOVE IN DISGUISE, both reviewed and highly recommended, by the way).  It is also an unusual Layton in that there is a love quandrangle or should I say a double love triangle?  Now I am confusing you.  Let me explain.<br />This is the story of an American heroine Faith Hamilton with an unhappy childhood and a passion to return home to her loving grandfather who only wants her to marry an Englishman (he was born one).  That is not what Faith wants.  Faith wants, a bit anachronistically, to join grandpa in the family business.  [Let's leave that aside, shall we?].  And she wants to return home.  She is not that fond of English society.  So much &quot;not-fond&quot; that she makes up tall tales for a group of young gilded youth at a country house where she is staying. So much so that she makes some enemies, and she is henceforth tagged as &quot;The Indian Maiden&quot; (having falsely claimed to be part-Indian, among other things).  Telling tall tales is clearly not good for Miss Hamilton's popularity.<br />Enter hero 1 - an earl who is desperate need of Miss Hamilton's fortune and who is also attracted to her wild imagination.  Enter hero 2 - a peer (who is miscalled Lord Barnabas Deal, one of Layton's early errors in titles).  He is a recluse, and a man with a troubled romantic past.  He is definitely amused by Faith Hamilton, but he also takes the trouble to warn her about social pitfalls although she will not listen.<br />And then there is Faith's companion, an English-born American merchant hopelessly in love with their host's daughter, Lady Mary.  There is Lady Mary herself, apparently in love with said merchant.  There is Lady Mary's matchmaking mama, determined to throw her in with Lord Deal or to marry Faith off to the penniless earl by hook or crook.  That is just the start of an unusual book.<br />I won't give you any spoilers, but let me just say that I was totally shocked at the end, by something that happened, where I completely misread a couple of important secondary characters.  [Don't read the ending, even if you are an end-peeker. Please].  Nothing unpleasant, and it made sense in a way.  But completely unexpected.<br />I cannot say how this compares to the other luscious Layton love triange stories, since admittedly THE DUKE'S WAGER is my favorite.  Faith Hamilton is far less passive than Regina of that book, and far less &quot;nice&quot; (as in genuinely good) than Susannah of LOVE IN DISGUISE.  Lord Deal compares favorably to the heroes of both books - far less of a reprobate than the Duke of Torquay (but we do love a reformed rake, don't we?), and far less tormented than Warwick in LOVE IN DISGUISE.<br />Take your pick of any of these, or try this lovely short Regency.<br />Rating = 4.1 (some deductions for some errors)<BR>Recommended = Highly	2002-07-18
US	50375720	R2P4K3BITP4Y4Q	0505524090	703185720	Dark Challenge (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 5)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting book, with clash of two ancients....	I have mixed feelings about this book.  This is an unusual Feehan, or so I gather, because this is the story of a powerful Carpathian male (a hunter aged over 1000 years) meeting his match in a powerful Carpathian female (another ancient, of about the same age or 10 years younger) and her brother whose powers - learned in *isolation* - equal or surpass those of the hero.<br />Warning at the beginning - if you don't like books in which part of the thrill is seeing the hero being tested, really tested (and I don't mean in the erotic sphere) by other men, this is not the book for you.  Come to think of that, you should also avoid Dark Legend.  I happen to think this aspect is fascinating, because I have never really seen any Feehan hero being challenged by another ancient male.  Not to mention, being forced to live with other ancient males by his lifemate, because she will not leave her group.<br />This book, along with DARK FIRE, is set in a subset of Carpathian society, which grew in complete isolation from the mainstream.  It has its own laws, in effect.  And the \\"Prince\\" of this society is Darius - who is not the hero.  There are three males and two females who form the group, and they are reeling as much from the unexpected defection of a fourth male and its consequences, as from what happens when Julian makes his presence felt.  Julian himself has to cope with moving from being very much a loner, to learning to live in a group, and to share his lifemate with the others who are effectively her brothers and sister, if not of the same womb then by a shared lifetime.<br />I haven't read all the other Feehan books, and I don't usually read vampire books or paranormal romances.  [Asaro and Bradley aside... but they are SFF writers].  I am therefore judging this book on its own merits.<br />Is this a successful romance?  I think so, despite the fact that a lot of the novel's energy is expended on the complicated group interactions, and even more on the conflicts betweenthe hero and the heroine's brother.  After all, the couple meet, they fall for each other, they miss each other, and they have a happy ending (or so we hope).<br />Is this an interesting story?  You bet it was.  For someone relatively new to Feehan, this book explained a lot about Carpathian society, especially their ancient history and lifestyle, which changed considerably after 1400.  [Keep in mind that *all* the Dark series are set after 1900].  It also raised some questions, and it fed some information about what happened to the others - particularly the legendary twins Gabriel and Lucian.  <br />This is not a typical Dark novel, I suspect for all the reasons I explained.  Julian is a loner by choice, if a cruel and enforced choice.  He meets up with his lifemate, who is not a young nubile Carpathian female (well, she is nubile but not young).  She is no converted human psychic, and nor a tough female cop.  She is an ancient Carpathian female, the first to appear in this series along with her foster sister Syndil.  I happen to like this setup.  Others may not, especially if they prefer the more usual story of a human converted to a Carpathian.<br />Rating = 4.4<BR>Recommended = highly, especially for insights into Carpathian history and sociology<br />P.S. I don't think it is fair to critique this book for the non-appearance of old characters, because Dark Magic has the same flaw (Gregori aside), and so do Dark Legend and Dark Guardian.  Especially in the two latter, where the legendary ancient hunters, older than even the Prince (whose story is the first book), there is even less excitement in Carpathian society.  Please judge this book on its own merits, and not on the fact that no old favorites appear.	2002-07-18
US	50375720	R10XY21PNY4VMB	0451149238	940525969	Love in Disguise (Super Regency, Signet)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Marvellous 1st book in an eventual trilogy	Layton did not set out to write a trilogy (according to her own website), but this book ended up the first book in a trilogy.  The other two books are #2 THE GAME OF LOVE (featuring Arden Lyons, a secondary character in this book), and #3 SURRENDER TO LOVE (featuring the [person] of this book).<br />Layton sets up the book a bit like THE DUKE'S WAGER, in that there is a triangle, with two men, both friends, competing for the love of a single woman. Except that this is not THE DUKE'S WAGER, where both  men are titled, wealthy, and out to seduce the girl. This is actually a far more complicated story. <br />One of the men - Mr Warwick Jones - is a wealthy untitled gentleman, with considerable social clout but he prefers to be a recluse. He is very good with women (in bed), but believes that he is unlovable (reference is made to his unhappy childhood but it is not beaten into the read). Warwick is a tortured hero in that his feelings of inadequacy do not warp him but they leave him feeling that he is undesirable to women and ultimately not loveable.  The other is a Viscount, but a Viscount who is virtually bankrupt, except for one entailed estate. <br />At the start of the novel, we meet an unusual coachman who turns out to be a viscount - Julian, Viscount Hazelton.  Lord Hazelton is down on his luck, and earning money with the few skills he has left. At a country inn,  he runs into an old friend - Warwick Jones. Warwick persuades Julian to mortgage his entailed estate and to invest that money with him. <br />When some thugs  attacks Julian in the street,he ends up recovering at Warwick's home.  It is at this point that Susannah moves in complete with chaperone (taking up a prior invitation from Warwick to her brother). This is when the relationship between the three actually develops.<br />Warwick seeks revenge for the cowardly attack on Julian, and his search carries him into the heart of London's underwold, presided over by a leonine giant, called naturally Lion. Who he is, remains a mystery in this book. [Find out who he is from Bk 2 - THE GAME OF LOVE].   The criminal element forms an important part of the story, tied as it is with Warwick's family history and Julian's occupation.<br />At the same inn where Warwick and Julian met, they run into one of Warwick's Cit partnersm (the son of a fishmonger made good) and his only sister Susannah Logan who has been well-education.   She is too well-educated for Cit men, and she is too under-bred for society, except for those lords seeking to repair their fortunes through marriage, and she won't have them.  Susannah is however interested in this particular lord - both for his golden looks and for the fact that he is trying honest work. This is a lord she could marry. <br />Julian Hazelton (Lord Hazelton), the other \\"hero\\", is however in love with a lady far above his reach. She is the Incomparable Lady Marianna Moredon [sometimes called Lady Moredon, an error like a few other errors with titles]. His lady is however under the guardianship of her brother Lord Robert Moredon [actually Lord Moredon] who hates both Julian and Warwick since their schooldays.   Why?  Read the book to find out.<br />So, we have Susannah pining for Julian who is pining for Marianna. And we have Warwick pining for Susannah, but also deeply conscious both of his friendship with Julian and that he is not attractive to women (or so he thinks).  Susannah believes that her low birth makes her unacceptable not just to society but to any gentleman of rank, except Julian and he is unavailable.  Warwick believes that he can only purchase the physical aspects of love and not find genuine happiness.  And Julian believes that he is in love with Marianna Moredon and that she will wait for him if she can.<br />By the end, the love triangle has been sorted out. Obviously Susannah cannot marry both men. She gets her wish, sort of. She also gets the right man.   She has done considerable growing up in the course of the book,and both her suitors have learned quite a bit about themselves and love.  <br />Unlike THE DUKE'S WAGER, where both men set out calculatedly to ruin the heroine for a wager (making them unlikeable to many readers), in this book, both men behave honorably, more or less.  Both have physical relationships with women for the night (portrayed briefly but tellingly) <br />My only regrets were that Warwick's family - his mother, his stepfather and his step-siblings - were mentioned only during his childhood memories.  Even told second-hand , I would have liked to have seen a little more of them.  <br />The story is told with a lot of introspection and narrative. While there is dialogue and action, the story is slower than a Regency historical might be.   But things do happen, and the action ranges all over London and outside London.  There is plenty of excitement, and a dazzling wealth of characters from different walks of life.  But the story itself is centered firmly on the three characters we meet early in the story - the lady Susannah, and her two gentlemen.<br />On a re-read it was interesting to see how certain secrets were hinted at earlier through an episode here and there, or the description of one character through the eyes of another.  This is a longer traditional Regency (a Signet Super Regency), albeit with frank if brief portrayal of intimacies.  It is not quite a historical, in that stress is played on introspection and character growth. <br />Rating = 4.9<BR>Recommended = Very Highly<br />P.S.  If you are interested in what Warwick should look like, please check out the drawing on Layton's page ... I hated the cover (talk about a hero groping the heroine!).	2002-07-15
US	50375720	R14KMZ59KPFDWT	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Powerful but flawed	I have been sampling books in this series, starting with DARK PRINCE (bk 1), and then the books about the twin vampire hunters - DARK LEGEND and DARK GUARDIAN.  This paranormal romance is both addictive (a bit like chocolate!) and yet frustrating.  Why?  I will let know you know at the end. <br />A brief summary for those with no experience of Christine Feehan:  she writes books about a society of beings who are not quite vampires.  The Carpathians, in Feehan's world, are supernatural beings who can live very long lives and have remarkable powers.  They have their own laws (physical, spiritual as well as social/legal).  One of these laws forces them to drink blood, although they are *not* vampires.  [Vampires are long-lived Carpathians gone bad, to put it briefly. Vampires kill humans, and derive pleasure and other feelings from pain. Carpathians don't kill in that way].    <br />Their numbers are shrinking rapidly, partly due to a massive battle in the 1400s (referred to briefly in two books), and partly due to the fact that there are virtually no female Carpathians left.  Few children are born, and those who survive are fewer.  No female children are being born.  <br />Adult male Carpathians need a life-mate however;  mere sex with a human or a Carpathian female will not do.  Those who fail to find a lifemate and have lived far too long either choose to face the dawn (the sun will kill them) or to become vampires (i.e. they go bad).  Carpathians have tried in the past to convert human females without success, and they are now having greater success with full-blown psychic human females.  <br />The typical Carpathian male is not only drop-dead gorgeous but also what I would call \\"super-alpha\\".  Completely unable to take a no from his partner (or would-be partner).  The idea of Carpathian society is that women (being so few) and children (also so few) are to be protected.  When a Carpathian male finds his lifemate, he is not willing to take no for an answer.  Soundsa bit like a Stephanie Laurens hero, right?  Somewhat magnified of course. <br />I was fortunate enough to pick up three of the more interesting books in the series, with no objectionable heroines.  In the first book DARK PRINCE, the head of Carpathian society is about to seek the sun when he finds his lifemate.  The fact that she was a human psychic terrified of being enclosed in earth (part of the Carpathian sleep and healing rituals) and also a vegetarian made that book interesting. Unfortunately, things went downhill from the middle.  <br />This book DARK LEGEND (and its twin book DARK GUARDIAN) showcase the strenghts and weaknesses of Feehan's world.   In this book, the legendary vampire hunter Gabriel has been asleep for centuries, resting after having sealed his twin Lucien who has apparently turned into a vampire. Gabriel awakens in 20th century Paris to discover that his twin has disappeared (woken before him) and that he himself is perilously close to turning (becoming a vampire).  He is taken for a vagrant when he is provided food and shelter by a young woman Francesca who offers him her own blood to replenish him.  Francesca is not your typical heroine in more ways than one.  She is firstly remarkably gifted, in that she can heal patients from within.  She is also not quite who she appears to be.  Suffice to say, that Gabriel makes her his lifemate without her consent.  <br />Gabriel's relationship with Lucien and a subplot involving a talented but abused child Skylar are the two best parts of this novel.  Throughout the novel, we see the tension gripping Gabriel as he tries to find his vampire twin.  Can Gabriel kill Lucien when he finds him this time?  But if Lucien is a vampire, why is he behaving so strangely?  Why, especially, is he protecting and comforting Skylar?<br />My problems with the novel were that two marvellous components were wasted.  Firstly,  Francesca's powers and her unusual self-education should have meant that she would react differently to Gabriel's claim on her.  Apart from some mild irritation, she seems to placidly accept Gabriel's claim, as is his right.  There is no real tension between the couple once she has made this decision (and it comes early).  That spoils most of the book for me.<br />Secondly, Francesca's friend Bryce (a medical doctor) could have been made far more nuanced, far more sympathetic.  Instead, from becoming an apparently admirable character, he is made a character who is willing to sell his friend's secrets for his own advancement - and worse.  It would have been so much more interesting to see him remain basically decent, or if he had to be made the pseudo-villain, to watch the change occur in him.  I would have liked to see Francesca's relationship with Bryce be far more serious than it was, and to watch all three of them struggle with Gabriel's claim on her.<br />Finally, the story takes place in 20th century Paris, but there is almost no sense of local color, local people and history playing any part.<br />All this brings me back to the central problem with this series.  The heroes are so alpha that they completely overwhelm the females.  And with one or two rare exceptions (Dark Challenge, Dark Guardian, and a short story), the heroines become relatively passive, even when they are clearly not comfortable with the life and ideology of the Carpathians (as was Raven).  The problem is that super-alpha heroes are all very fine, but every now and then, you want a heroine who will say \\"no\\" [and the hero will actually listen].<br />Dark Legend, with a Carpathian hero AND heroine, had so much promise going for it.  I loved the beginning, and the three (four, counting Lucien) principal characters who were introduced early in the book.  Pity about the rest of it.<br />Rating 3.3.<BR>Recommendation = Good read, but DARK GUARDIAN is more interesting plot-wise.	2002-07-13
US	50375720	R17HLHDCOCMDKB	0451206827	893453559	The Heir (Coulter Historical Romance)	Books	1	26	30	N	N	Not a romantic romance...	The best part of this book was the secondary romance between the heroine's mother and the physician.  There were some memorable characters - the mysterious French count, the spotty viscount (Lord Greybourne), the Talgarths, and of course, Elspeth who gradually moves from almost unbelievable naivete to a genuine love with a decent man.<br />What I hated were the hero and heroine.  If you like Catherine Coulter in general, you will not like this review.  I am not writing for the Coulter fans out there, but for readers who read other Regency historicals and who are trying out Coulter as a new-to-them author.  I used to love Coulter back in the late 1980s and early 1990s.  Her sensibilities are more in tune with that period, and she herself admits it in more than one review.  What I don't understand is the profusion of re-releases of older works.  [I do understand that they bring in a lot of money to publisher and author, but not why these re-releases are so popular].<br />I am not fond of ultra-alpha heroes who taunt and then rape their wives, or of conversation that consists largely of \\"damns\\".  Re-reading THE HEIR again, Coulter sounds like Amanda Quick to me without the humor and wit, and with far more swearing from everyone.<br />I gave this one star not because the hero and heroine are so unlikeable, but because the story is more of a marriage that is basically a rape and founded solely on mercenary considerations plus mistrust and hostility on the part of the husband.  We have a hero who jumps to conclusions, perhaps with some justification, but who does not change his mind about his fiancee's infidelity (Arabella was not even his wife when the supposed infidelity occurred).  He continues to accuse her of adultery even after discovering that she is a virgin.  When she charges him with rape, he does not answer that it is impossible for a husband to rape his wife (a legal reality back then) but that he did not rape her.  He used cream. Yeah, right.  And he continues in this train of thought for the whole book, more or less.  Only the proof that someone else was with the French count is what changes his mind.  Nothing that Arabella or her mother can say will do it.<br />Arabella herself is hard to like.  She has a real attitude problem at the outset.  She is blindly devoted to her father, a man who was abusive (physically and emotionally) to his young wife.  She is completely unaware of the fact that her mother's marriage to him was a misery.  Until the hero points out the examples of her father's infidelity, Arabella will not change her mind.  In fact, she mentally calls her mother a trollop and an adulterous wife after learning that her widowed mother plans to marry within months of the late Earl's death.  I can understand Arabella's love for a father who indulged her, I can understand her pain and shock that her mother would remarry so hastily, and I can even understand her suspicions that her mother has been unfaithful.  What I cannot understand is her general attitude.<br />Yes, Arabella does stand up to the hero, her husband the new Earl.  Yes, she is the only person for him, obnoxious that he is, the only person who can challenge him and keep him on his toes.  If there had not been Justin's attitude through the novel and other clunkers, this book might have rated 3 stars.<br />Rated: 0.9<br />Recommendation:  Avoid, unless you are turned on by a hero who almost puts Othello to shame,  and by constant fighting between hero and heroine.s in this train of thought for the whole book, more or less.  Only the proof that someone else was with the French count is what changes his mind.  Nothing that Arabella or her mother can say will do it.  <br />Arabella herself is hard to like.  She has a real attitude problem at the outset.  She is blindly devoted to her father, a man who was abusive (physically and emotionally) to his young wife.  She is completely unaware of the fact that her mother's marriage to him was a misery.  Until the hero points out the examples of her father's infidelity, Arabella will not change her mind.  In fact, she mentally calls her mother a trollop and an adulterous wife after learning that her widowed mother plans to marry within months of the late Earl's death.  I can understand Arabella's love for a father who indulged her, I can understand her pain and shock that her mother would remarry so hastily, and I can even understand her suspicions that her mother has been unfaithful.  What I cannot understand is her general attitude.   <br />Yes, Arabella does stand up to the hero, her husband the new Earl.  Yes, she is the only person for him, obnoxious that he is, the only person who can challenge him and keep him on his toes.  If there had not been Justin's attitude through the novel and other clunkers, this book might have rated 3 stars.<br />Rated: 0.9<BR>Recommendation:  Avoid, unless you are turned on by a hero who almost puts Othello to shame,  and by constant fighting between hero and heroine.	2002-07-03
US	50375720	R28LGZJUMP15S2	0821767968	369945283	A Bride For Lord Wickton (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	So-so book with toadish hero...	I cannot recommend this book very highly, despite a spirited heroine and some decent secondary and minor characters. For one, the basic plot was far better done in Beverley's DEIDRE AND DON JUAN. For another, the hero's actions were thoroughly self-centered for most of the book. From my point of view, the realization that he comes to near the end (that the ends do not justify the means, and that true love means sacrifice) comes rather too late to redeem this particular hero. And unfortunately, his own backstory - including the gypsy blessing - was not sufficiently interesting to redeem this character and ultimately this story.<br />The hero has spent 5 years at war, without writing to his betrothed wife, an heiress (through her maternal grandfather a Cit). She was in love with him when he left for the battlefields, but she has since fallen out of love with him. Or so she says. At any rate, she refuses to marry him when he returns, prompting angry rebukes from her mother (a faded lady consumed with the desire to please those higher in rank) and her would-be mother-in-law (a thoroughly selfish, egoistic, and unpleasant woman). Isa's father does not appear in the book (unless I am mistaken), and he clearly married Isa's mother for her money and left for happier hunting grounds once a child was born (and presumably his income secured by the settlement). Isa's grandfather does appear in the book, and he sounds a rather interesting man. <br />Unfortunately, Isa's choice of preferred husband is much the same as Deirdre's preferred husband (in the book by Jo Beverley). Isa, like Deirdre, has mistaken scholarly ambition for decency, affection, and love. [Nothing wrong with being a scholar, but Isa's would-be husband Peter Effinton is clearly not going to be a family man]. Unfortunately, Isa does not realize this completely, even when Effinton shares his vision of the future with her.<br />I was a little puzzled by discontinuities here and there, notably a scene where Isa's mother suddenly becomes Louise. [Surely, mothers and daughters were not on first-name terms in the Regency]. <br />The writing was not bad, but it did not sparkle. The plot was adequate but not inspired. The characters were average, with nothing in them (their backstories, their mannerisms, their friends, their hopes and dreams, their personalities) that particularly made them stand out from the usual hero or heroine. A rating of 2 stars may seem harsh for an average romance, but I have read so many better this year.<br />Rating = 2.7<BR>Recommended only with reservations<BR>Edited July 22, 2002 for grade	2002-06-28
US	50375720	R1R7579NBAABCX	0821766295	200375456	Seeking Celeste (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Never really took off...	Every so often, I try an author new to me, and try to judge her by her writing, characterization, and so forth.  The story is that of a governess who is attracted to her employer, except that she is not really a governess and he is also attracted to her from the start.<br />So, this is a governess-employer romance, with a little bit of intrigue thrown in.  Not spy intrigue, but romantic intrigue, with the Earl fending off a too-interested former lover, and with the governess Anne Derringer fending off a couple of oafish would-be suitors.  <br />The children were not bad, and were reasonably realistically portrayed.  That, and a minor character Ethan Clarke, were what kept me reading.  However, this book had so many disappointments.<br />Firstly, the exact relationship of the Earl to his siblings was not explained.  It appears from the fact that the younger brother had his own title (Viscount Tewkesbury) that the Earl's mother had remarried.  This would be confirmed by the fact that the Earl's sister is not &quot;Lady&quot; but referred to as &quot;Miss&quot;.  [A Honourable Miss X is always called &quot;Miss&quot;, the &quot;Honourable&quot; is only written in addressing a letter and so forth].  I wish the author had let on a bit about the hero's past and how he came to be in charge of his siblings.  All we learn is that he was very young when he fell for an unsuitable woman who has since been pursuing him.<br />There are some mistakes with titles - the &quot;other woman&quot; is referred to as Lady Caroline Dashwood, and sometimes as Lady Dashwood (which she would be only if she were a peeress in her own right, or the widow of a peer or a baronet or knight).  Since she is described as never-married, she is probably Lady Caroline Dashwood.  This character is never really fleshed out, and appears pretty much two-dimensional - obsessed with becoming a countess (Countess Edgemere), and obsessed with getting some valuable diamonds.  We learn that she was not a virgin when she seduced the young Edgemere, but nothing very much about her past.  She is well-liked by the Almack patronesses and has a high social position.  And she can be pretty mean.  That is all we know.  <br />The Earl's fear of getting entangled with his former paramour is understandable, but his methods seem decidedly ineffective (apart from the trick with the diamonds).  In face of such a campaign, I would have thought he would have proposed a sham betrothal to the governess.  The thing that stands in the way of his courting her, apart from the fact that she is employed by him, is that she is too low in the social scale - she *is* a governess.  So naturally, the governess must regain her fortune.<br />Anne's own background was not fleshed out either.  She has the usual gambler father and wastrel brother who sold off their estate and gambled away her dowry.  She herself gambles, by putting all her small fortune into one ship.  She is obssessed by astronomy.  [Unfortunately, this last part, so skillfully done in Sheila Simonson's LADY ELIZABETH'S COMET, is largely ignored in this book except as a talking poin from time to time].<br />I was undecided whether to give this book one star or two stars.  The higher rating is because there is a romance (and we can see the attraction between the couple), there is a half-way credible plot, and some engaging secondary characters.  The book failed to take off and sparkle for me, but it might work well for a different reader.<br />Rating = 1.8<BR>Not recommended.	2002-06-28
US	50375720	R34WR7C49A0AWF	0449002330	363963985	His Grace Endures (Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A well-deserved RITA winner	Without quite realizing it, I appear to have been picking up several RITA winners among traditional Regencies.  One such book was Butler's The Rakes' Retreat.  Another was this one (Jensen won another RITA for A Grand Design, before moving on to historicals).<br />This is a book hard to describe easily.  It had an irresistible first chapter (from the publisher's website but a deeply buried section) where the widowed heroine Deirdre is coaxing and cajoling her spoiled young sister-in-law to get ready for the ball.  When she arrives, she has to continue worry about Olivia who has expressed her determination to marry only an earl (or at least an earl).  Deirdre is not comfortable with society, and we find out why in the last paragraph of the first chapter - she has jilted a highly eligible suitor at the altar and eloped to marry her late husband.  And you can guess what is about to happen - the rejected suitor arrives at the ball in Edinburgh.  He is a duke, no less, the man whom Deirdre jilted and humiliated so publicly, and the man who was responsible for her husband's death.  <br />As the book progresses, some of our preconceptions from the first chapter are demolished in rapid succession.  Deirdre misses her late husband, but she is *not* \\"Deirdre of the Sorrows\\" as she has been labelled by the ton.  She was not a heartless jilt.  She ran away from a marriage into which she had all but been sold by her social-climbing parents.  Her fiance was not a duke then, but a second son of a duke.  And the man she was to marry was the heir to a baron.  Deirdre has a strong sense of her own self-worth, and she ran away from the church in part because she was not asked whether she wanted the marriage, and in part because the groom gave no sign of loving her.<br />So, the Duke is a heartless peer out to marry the prettiest face around, or is he?  That is the idea society now has about him, thanks to rumors spread by a mysterious person or persons.  Conover (the duke) believes that either Deirdre or her sister-in-law must be responsible but cannot blame them entirely.  He failed to convince Deirdre of his real love for her then, and he fails to do so now.  In fact, revelations about his actions past and present have a way of coming back to haunt him.  Not to mention that a nasty spat he and Deirdre have in public backfires on him more than on her.  So much for Deirdre's belief that the ton would take the Duke's side.  Even his friend's mother Lady Hythe publicly chastises him - more than once.<br />All this explains the title \\"His Grace Endures\\" (one of the harder to find Jensen titles).  For the rest of the book, Conover must confront the effect of his past actions or inactions, and he must also unmask the person who is slandering him.  But there are no black villains here.  Conover's enemy, for want of a better word, has his reasons.  <br />The book was wonderful, with meditative dialogue by Conover and others, with surprise built upon surprise.  There was Galahad, the incontinent monkey and the stiff Earl of Hythe and his prudish mother (who will appear to greater effect in another Jensen book  BEST LAID SCHEMES). There is also a reference to the heroine of WHAT CHLOE WANTS.  <br />However, the book was ever so slightly lacking in passion.  While I could understand Conover's regrets over the past (and his constant thoughts of Deirdre helped here), I did not get the sense that Deirdre was in love with him, although I realized that she was not indifferent to him of course.  What was the hardest was identifying when and how Deirdre had fallen for Conover.  Did she love him even as she was eloping - and listening for his voice at every stop?  Did she love him only when another elopement was prevented?  The answer did not strike me.  <br />The second problem was the ending.  It seemed too abrupt, and not in keeping with either Conovar's or Deirdre's characters.  This was a minor problem but one that spoiled the book slightly for me along withthe other issue I mentioned.<br />Rating 4.2 <BR>Recommended:  Highly	2002-06-25
US	50375720	R35AA93JVXKTDU	0380714388	156145296	The Stanforth Secrets	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Not very romantic, but a good read nevertheless..	I would agree with the reader below, except for a couple of caveats.  Firstly, I enjoyed the book far more than a \\"2-star\\" rating would suggest.  Secondly, the book is billed expressly as a \\"regency romantic intrigue\\" as part of its subtitle.  Thus, expecting it to be a \\"pure\\" romance when it is stated to be otherwise is not terribly fair.  <br />As a mystery, this book gets mixed reviews.  I had my suspicions from the outset, and it was nice to have them confirmed.  But I could never entirely be sure as to who had committed the original crime (stealing a document desired by the Government and by the French), and who had committed the various murders.  As it turned out, two deaths I thought was murder turned out to be accidents.  [Ouch!].  But there were some surprises in store all the same.<br />Was the identity of the thief clear from the outset?  No, although my suspicions were raised at one point.  Was the identity of the murderer clear from the outset? No, again.  So my interest in the intrigue and the overall mystery kept me reading to the end.  <br />The romance part is slighter, I agree.  If you are looking for a real love story, and where the hero and heroine fall visibly in love, you will be disappointed.  It is clear that Chloe made a mistake in her marriage, but not clear that she understands precisely why her match was a mistake (apart from her choosing to elope to Scotland).  And yes, she was remarkably dense at times, if rather more acute at others in catching on to the real culprit.  I found her rather endearing in an odd way;  she reminded me of people who can be amazingly obtuse about the motivations of others.  <br />The story is simple in one respect:  the romance is between the widowed Chloe, Lady Stanforth (so called because there are two other Dowager Lady Stanforths) and the new 4th Viscount Stanforth, the cousin of her late husband and the man who helped them elope to Scotland.  This romance is however a minor plot element.  The real story is about governmental intrigue, about family intrigues, and all manners of secrets.  There is the Dowager Viscountess (Chloe's stepmother) who is rather batty, ever since she lost her husband in 1802.  There is Belinda, Lady Stanforth, the rather insecure widow of the 3rd Viscount, who was born the daughter of a prosperous local farmer.  She is not quite welcome in the family and her marriage has created a number of tensions in the area.   There is Justin, the new Viscount, who has just returned from the war.  There is his friend Lord Randal Ashby (who it soon becomes clear is also Chloe's cousin) who comes up to Lancashire with Justin.  There is a cast of secondary characters including two servants who detest each other, the friend of the 3rd Viscount and so forth. And there is Sophie and Randal's grandmother, a Dowager Duchess of Tyne.<br />In many respects this was a fun read, especially the risque dialogue between Chloe, Justin and Randal.  The descriptions of the area surrounding Delamere Hall were a treat.  The various interactions between Chloe and Belinda were also great reads.<br />Unfortunately the book had some problems.  Firstly, although this book is billed as a regency romantic intrigue, that does not appear in the Amazon title (or in most searches for authors).  For a reader expecting a typical regency romance, this book will be a disappointment.  There is nothing too incredible, but the romance is distinctly undercooked here.  <br />Secondly,  both Chloe and Justin act rather irrationally at times. Justin (like the government) jumps to the conclusion that Chloe must be the culprit based simply on the fact that she was living at the house all the time.  While they are quick to suspect a young woman of birth, they overlook men of birth.  [In most Regency romances, women are routinely discounted as criminals because of social prejudices and preconceptions].  They fail to confide in each other early - Justin because of a promise made to higher authorities, and Chloe because of what?  Justin's youthful reputation for follies, or something else.  Even after they have shared their stories, they do not always confide in each other.  This I find irritating.  We have two people working frequently at cross-purposes, who are hardly partners.  Let me also say that I find the quickness of the two to discount certain other suspects to be ridiculous, and Justin's unwillingness to examine the many recent deaths appalling.  I was also troubled by the conclusion, in which a murderer got off scot-free with four murders to his/her credit, and with a spot of extortion and terrorizing as well.  <br />The book was the 2nd Regency published by Beverley with Walker (in the now-defunct Regency program), and falls between Lord Wraybourne's Betrothed (very hard to find, because of the tiny print runs) and the next story, presumably that of Lord Randal Ashby.  There is a reference here to Piers Verderan, whom some readers will recognize as the hero of EMILY AND THE DARK ANGEL.  <br />Unless you want to have a complete collection of Beverley books, borrow this book and read.  At [cost], this book is a little expensive to buy.<BR>Rating = 2.6  (higher marks for the mystery and intrigue than for the romance).	2002-06-24
US	50375720	RKVMRJS1QO9N8	0449227707	769153899	Midnight Clear (Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	First part brilliant, second part falls off ...	I bought this book seduced by the first chapter (there is actually a prologue before it).  What a concept - an old lady writing a scandalous history of the British aristocracy, and actually propositioning a much younger aristocrat!  After that, and reading about the companion, Jane Ryder, I wanted this book immediately.  And so, I ordered it and read it within 2 days of its arrival.<br />The first part lived up to my expectations and more.  Every word, every dialogue, counted to build up an atmosphere worthy of Carla Kelly herself.  [Hooray, I was thinking here;  I've found another author to glom].  Unfortunately, for me, the second half fell down badly.  Plot lines that seemed to be developing in the first half (and questions left unanswered) were dropped in favor of a more stereotyped secondary plot.  All I can say about that was the most interesting part was finding out exactly how the mystery ingredient (no spoilers here) arrived in the hands and welcoming arms of the heroine.  I would have liked to have read more of this Richard Barron (if I recall the name correctly).<br />The first half of this book rates 5 stars for strong memorable and at least one highly unusual character.  Great dialogue, great atmosphere, sensitive to Regency morals and conventions, and all of that.<br />The second half is downgraded significantly (not just for the use of Americanisms such as diapers) but for the fact that the tone of the book changes sharply.  [I could hardly believe that I was reading the same book I had started out with].  The tone of the first half was wry, ever so slightly witty, with a competent and sensible heroine and a hero who is determined to preserve the family honor.   The second half was more melodramatic, with the abrupt introduction of four new characters, and the virtual disappearance from the scene of those whom we encountered in the first half.  The story told was also rather more conventional, and it could almost have been pulled from any contemporaryseries romance.<br />Several questions in my mind about the hero and heroine were left unanswered - How did the hero make his fortune?  Why did he arrive home now, and not earlier?  How did the heroine arrive from Northumberland to London?  What happened to her, and what unusual talents or skills has she learned (as mentioned in the Prologue) and where/how?  <br />I should add here that the heroine's passionate involvement with a very small child, did not make a lot of sense to me.  Did she want the child because it was an orphan, because it was illegitimate, or because she felt that she was unlikely to marry?  There were just too many unanswered questions, and the identity of the child's mother was not a surprise to me.  The second half therefore drags down the overall rating of the book.  I should have stopped reading after the first half.<br />Rating = 3.5 [5.0 for the first half;  2.0 for the second half = 3.5 overall]	2002-06-19
US	50375720	RNW5P6URS2S15	0449227707	769153899	Midnight Clear (Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	First part brilliant, second part falls off ...	I bought this book seduced by the first chapter (there is actually a prologue before it).  What a concept - an old lady writing a scandalous history of the British aristocracy, and actually propositioning a much younger aristocrat!  After that, and reading about the companion, Jane Ryder, I wanted this book immediately.  And so, I ordered it and read it within 2 days of its arrival.<br />The first part lived up to my expectations and more.  Every word, every dialogue, counted to build up an atmosphere worthy of Carla Kelly herself.  [Hooray, I was thinking here;  I've found another author to glom].  Unfortunately, for me, the second half fell down badly.  Plot lines that seemed to be developing in the first half (and questions left unanswered) were dropped in favor of a more stereotyped secondary plot.  All I can say about that was the most interesting part was finding out exactly how the mystery ingredient (no spoilers here) arrived in the hands and welcoming arms of the heroine.  I would have liked to have read more of this Richard Barron (if I recall the name correctly).<br />The first half of this book rates 5 stars for strong memorable and at least one highly unusual character.  Great dialogue, great atmosphere, sensitive to Regency morals and conventions, and all of that.<br />The second half is downgraded significantly (not just for the use of Americanisms such as diapers) but for the fact that the tone of the book changes sharply.  [I could hardly believe that I was reading the same book I had started out with].  The tone of the first half was wry, ever so slightly witty, with a competent and sensible heroine and a hero who is determined to preserve the family honor.   The second half was more melodramatic, with the abrupt introduction of four new characters, and the virtual disappearance from the scene of those whom we encountered in the first half.  The story told was also rather more conventional, and it could almost have been pulled from any contemporaryseries romance.<br />Several questions in my mind about the hero and heroine were left unanswered - How did the hero make his fortune?  Why did he arrive home now, and not earlier?  How did the heroine travel (or move) from Northumberland to London (what happened to her in her first position)?  What unusual talents or skills has she learned (as mentioned in the Prologue) and where/how?  <br />I should add here that the heroine's passionate involvement with a very small child, did not make a lot of sense to me.  Did she want the child because it was an orphan, because it was illegitimate, or because she felt that she was unlikely to marry?  There were just too many unanswered questions, and the identity of the child's mother was not a surprise to me.  The second half therefore drags down the overall rating of the book.  I should have stopped reading after the first half.<br />Rating = 3.5 [5.0 for the first half;  2.0 for the second half = 3.5 overall]	2002-06-19
US	50375720	R2XASYLM8ZK8IJ	0821748580	499361031	Tempting Fortune	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Book with a strong hero, and an anti-marriage heroine	I have to admit I read this book mainly because of Bright (Lord Arcenbryght Malloren). If you don't know anything about these names, that is fine. Until I started collecting and reading the Malloren series, I didn't know much either.  <br />TEMPTING FORTUNE is the second book in the Malloren saga, which appears to have ended in DEVILISH (Rothgar's story). The Mallorens are the children of the late Marquess of Rothgar by his two wives; Rothgar, the present Marquess (Bey to his family and friends), is the surviving child of the first marriage; the others are his half-brothers and half-sisters. <br />Fortunately for me, MY LADY NOTORIOUS (the first book in the series, and the most expensive) is being re-printed after many many years. [Did you know that romances were collectible? I didn't, until I started to try and get backlists].<br />Down to the basics. Barbiesa has provided a excellent synopsis of the story. I will confine my remarks to the wonderful title (one of her best) and to my impressions of the book. This is a story about gaming (gambling) and risky investments/ speculation (another type of gambling more familiar to us today). TEMPTING FORTUNE is thus a wonderful send-up of the fears and motivations that drive the hero and heroine, and several of the minor characters. [The author explains all this very well in her long afterword].<br />Historical context - This story is set relatively early in the reign of George III and his new queen, Charlotte. At this time, gambling is rife in society, and fortunes (and estates) change hands easily. Of course, all gambling is done by men; women do not control money or estates, especially if they are married. Among the more interesting developments taking place in the background, we hear murmurs of what will become the Industrial Revolution, driven by coal and new ways of transporting goods. The Duke of Bridgewater is trying to build his famous canals, and Lord Arcenbryght (Bright) has invested virtually everything in it -and become a stakeholder. If Bridgewater cannot get his canal bills through Parliament, or if his canals are technologically unsound, Bright loses everything. This is the fascinating background to a remarkable story. I have to admit I read the story more to read about all of this, and also to get Bright's point of view.<br />The story itself - Portia St Claire is the daughter of a man who ruined himself by bad and risky investments. Her mother and stepfather crave only stability, so much so that the mother will not let her only son go off to battle. When the son (by the second marriage) inherits the estate, he goes to London - where he gambles away a fortune - and the family estate. Yikes. <br />Portia takes matters calmly, considering all of this. She does have options - for one, she can get a loan from the Ware family (the earl of Walgrave being her half-brother's godfather); for another, the family can always seek refuge with her maternal uncle, a manufacturer. However, her options become sharply limited by the death of the old earl (see MY LADY NOTORIOUS to see what happens), when the new earl stays in the country. There is no way to raise a loan in London. <br />And to make matters worse, Oliver goes and plays again - when he has no money. This part of the book is so well-done. Oliver would have learned his lesson, but he is seduced back into gaming through Lord Bright's well-intentioned actions. We see Portia hiding coins here and there, paying the rent weeks in advance, and trying desperately to preserve what little cash they have against her brother's rush to the gaming tables again and again. Portia now has a grudge against Bright, not just because he appears to be a gamester, but because he has inadvertently persuaded Oliver back into gaming. <br />And then disaster strikes. I will let that be a surprise for the new reader, but all ends with Portia forced to marry Bright, the man whom she desires but whom she distrusts [Bright even promises never to gameagain, knowing well that his gaming, as witnessed by Portia, was for a reason].<br />So far, so good. We see Fort, the arch-enemy of the Mallorens, interacting with his childhood friend. Could Fort have saved Portia as Bright did? Perhaps not. Would Fort have married Portia in the face of a major scandal? He says not. And this is the man to whom Portia flees - on her wedding night. She does so for a reason, but considering the enmity between the Wares and the Mallorens, this is not a good move. At that point, I nearly gave up on Portia.<br />The book ends happily of course, but I wonder how long it will take for Portia to learn to trust Bright. I also noted that Portia seemed to trust her half-brother's word more (despite some lapses), although she perhaps had no choice. I was also puzzled by a little subplot involving a society lady, and the reasons why Bright would want her under his thumb. Those were the reasons this book gets four stars, and not five.	2002-06-17
US	50375720	RR6AJWJPEPPUC	0553583360	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Quick moves into a different genre...	This is one of Quick's later books (her earlier alliteratively named romances were very different), and it will therefore be received with some disappointment by fans of all her earlier books.  I will be honest;  if I were an undiluted Quick fan, and looked to read yet another iteration of feisty bluestocking heroine meets mysterious and wealthy hero (complete with witty dialogue and the obligatory \\"bloody hells\\"), this would disappoint me.  The hero and heroine are not rich, and they are struggling to stay in society.  Hero Tobias March was a man of business (he never received a degree from Oxford, and therefore had no other options without money or connection).  He has now turned to investigating crimes (a Regency private eye, if you will) to make a living.  Heroine Lavinia Lake is a widow (we learn little about her first husband), and she is running an antiques shop at the beginning of the story.  By the end, these two will become uneasy partners in private detection and investigation, and the scenario has been laid for the next book DON'T LOOK BACK that is just coming out.<br />First things first.  I tried to approach this book as someone relatively new to Quick, and to evaluate it in a different genre - historical mystery/romance.  Quick has always used a mystery plot, usually coupled with some society intrigue and private vendettas, in her novels.  For me, her mystery plots have been somewhat weak, in that the hero and heroine make moves that are remarkably stupid for sensible and intelligent people, and that the villain can usually be spotted by me from the outset.  [This was my problem with the plot of SURRENDER, for example, one of her earliest romances].  <br />How did this book do?  Well, both hero and heroine act somewhat stupidly as usual, getting into situations without back-ups.  Furthermore, they are rather slow to consider alternate possibilities, although they do tumble to the truth by the penultimate chapter.  In most Quick books, there is not just one villain working alone, but two villains.  This book was no exception.  I guessed the identity of the first villain almost from the outset, but not that of the latter.  In retrospect, I felt cheated - because the second villain appeared so very little.  <br />This book was satisfactory, and even entertaining, with a great beginning.  It left several questions unanswered for me, however.  I was also quite tired of the usual Quick heroine model - although Quick appears to have dropped her hero model (from her past romances), she retains many features of the heroine model she has used.  There is one thing to be said - Quick now has widows as heroines, rather than the \\"innocent\\" heroines in her earlier book, and her widowed heroines, sexually experienced and socially savyy (we hope), are more credible in some of their more adventurous moments than the unmarried heroines would have been.  <br />I will check out Quick's next book, but my favorite books by her still remain SCANDAL (a straightforward deliciously funny romance) and SURRENDER (with an atypical hero).	2002-06-14
US	50375720	R188OM6JSXPI1K	0312145934	792737798	Emma Watson: The Watsons Completed	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Entertaining completion, but not for Janeites...	Having read mixed reviews of Joan Aiken, and having read (and reviewed) her JANE FAIRFAX (a look at a major character in Austen's EMMA), I thought I would try this completion of the fragment THE WATSONS.  <br />The book is indeed entertaining, although there are many dark moments and the whole story is suffused by the determination or desire of Emma Watson to be independent (something that might be labelled as post-modern interpretation, or feminist interpretation).  For those of you not completely familiar with THE WATSONS,  the book begins when a young lady Emma Watson is obliged to return to her family - a widower clergyman father and his many children - when her rich aunt marries a fortune-hunter and moves to Ireland.  Much of the story is preoccupied with the economic and social position of the Watsons, particularly the three unmarried daughters (a fourth unmarried daughter marries at the outset) and the situation of Emma Watson in particular as she is bounced from home to home.  The ending is a trifle unrealistic, since it appears to be a pastiche of Austen's own encounters with Royalty and the happy ending of PERSUASION.  <br />The tone is completely unlike that of Austen;  I thought I should make that clear for anyone seeking the wit and irony of Austen herself.  Although I have not found any sequel or continuation or pastiche completely satisfactory, Aiken's JANE FAIRFAX was the most faithful both in plot and spirit to Austen's own works.  This book draws more from Austen's own life and considerably from the situation of the Dashwood sisters in Sense &amp; Sensibility.  [In fact, think of this story as Sense &amp; Sensibility, combined with a bit of Persuasion for the ending, with some other highly romantic elements thrown in].  <br />I found the book rather disappointing if I approached it as a Janeite.  [Most of Aiken's recent works using Austen characters have been similarly disapointing.]   Even as a stand-alone novel, I found the work oddly disjointed.The most brilliantly drawn characters were those who were the villains or the most disagreeable.  The personalities of the more likeable characters seem oddly flat, and one of them - the Rev Mr Howard - very different from start to finish.  Emma Watson herself, although showing traces of Austen's own character, seemed oddly passive in her relationship with her aunt who had cast her off in preference to a young second husband, a stand that I found too self-sacrificing (compared to her general thoughts and attitudes).  I think this could have been an interesting and even a great novel if some characters had been better developed, and if the ending had been made more realistic.  For a really good example of how this is done, read Jean Rhys's WIDE SARGASSO SEA.	2002-06-06
US	50375720	R2F1WYF2IZAIF1	0380818647	178525242	The Devil's Bargain	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Additional comments...	I need to add a few things to clarify what I said earlier.  Firstly, although this is a great book, from the point of view of a reader who dislikes dialogue, this is a book to avoid.  A lot of time is spent reading dialogue - between the hero and his friend, between the hero and heroine, between the heroine and her friend, and between other persons.  I happen to love both the fact that such dialogue exists, and that it is intelligent and credible (that is to say, in keeping with the period, the situation, and the characters of the hero and heroine).  Others will find pages of dialogue boring.  <br />Secondly, as someone pointed out to me on a board, this book is essentially about Revenge (with a capital R).  It reminds me of other revenge-oriented books that I love - These Old Shades by Georgette Heyer, By Arrangement by Madeline Hunter, among others.  Keep in mind however (and this is a bit of a spoiler), that the hero does not allow his love for the heroine to distract him from his ultimate vengeance, even though he does make a couple of compromises here and there.  If you loved the Duke of Avon in These Old Shades, this will be right up your alley.  [And Katherine comes off better than does Leonie in the Heyer book].  If you believe that love completely or partially changes a man, and that love should definitely allow the hero to give up his plans for revenge (especially if they hurt other people), you might be put off.  I don't think it is fair to compare this book to Mary Jo Putney's Silk and Shadows, because in that book, the hero's revenge is hurting other people, not just the heroine - and in very material and physical terms.  In this book, Alasdair's revenge nearly hurts the heroine badly (when she is kidnapped) but he makes every effort to rescue her.  It is true that he contemplates his revenge all through his subsequent courtship of the heroine, and that his need to revenge himself could have had a disastrous effect on his marriage.  [For which and otherminor flaws, I do take off one point here].<br />On the other hand, Alasdair is also keeping secrets from his wife, at least until their wedding night when, after the ultimate intimacy, he will tell her all his secrets.  [Compare this with Heyer's Duke of Avon who keeps secrets from his wife all his life].  If you don't like books where a major secret is sprung on you nearly at the end, avoid this book.  That secret goes a long way along with his professed reasons to explain why Alasdair is so driven by the need for revenge.<br />I still think this is a great book, an unusual one for Layton, and a clear homage to Heyer in more ways than one.  But, if Revenge Plots trouble you, and a hero like Alasdair (who nearly allows his desire for revenge to consume him, and who refuses to give up that long-withheld desire for love) repels you, avoid this book.   I am not usually fond of Revenge Plots, unless very well-done, but I happen to consider this well-done.  This is a story of a man who finds love at the same time that he finds the opportunity for revenge, and who satisfies both his need to love and be loved at the same time that he tries to carry out his revenge.  If you like the Duke of Avon in THESE OLD SHADES, you may enjoy this book (although Alasdair is of course not omniscient!).	2002-06-04
US	50375720	R105AHY59Q9A15	0380818647	178525242	The Devil's Bargain	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fabulous book, to be savoured slowly.	[Warning:  This is a rough draft review, to be polished up later.  I wrote this review as an aid to friends, and a strong recommendation to buy this novel]<br />I picked up Edith Layton's latest THE DEVIL'S BARGAIN - and I read through it nonstop (very much in a hurry - will have to re-read later).  It was good, starting between the dialogues between the hero and his well-meaning friend (and the odd villain/criminal), and those between the heroine and her cousin.  And there were three \\"ugly sisters\\" borrowed from Cinderella etc, but not as bad as that, of course.<br />And best of all for those tired of endless wedding nights and heroines exhausted from passion in their first encouter, although there is plenty of implied sex in the book (including a couple of startling scenes early on, and one shattering revelation towards the end), the hero and heroine don't actually make love until after they married. <br />I loved the major characters, the descriptions (particularly of the bath/bordello as well as the low-rent areas), the minor characters (including a madame Mrs Pansy and the servants), and above all, the dialogue.  Some might find parts of the book too introspective, but I felt that this was a story of two mature characters finding each other, and one giving up a fair amount in search of love.<br />The plot - the hero Sir Alasdair St Erth is out for vengeance against a particular family (or couple) the Scalbys, but his reputation has been badly marred by family mishaps and his own behavior in the past.  He finds and uses a young woman Katherine Corbet, staying with a family with several unmarried (and very ugly) daughters to launch into society.  During the narrative, he comes to realize that Katherine is worth more to him than the revenge (or rather the form that he intends the revenge to take), and this realization is hastened when Katherine is kidnapped.  [The identity of the kidnappers and their motivation is a small but significant sub-plot, but the effect of the kidnapping is very important to the story].  Katherine and Alasdair agree to marry - not because her reputation has been ruined when she disappears, or because she is caught kissing Alasdair and more, but because they genuinely care for each other.  At the end, Alasdair achieves his revenge, although not in the form he originally intended or even planned later.<br />The hero is somewhat in the framework of Quick heroes, but rather more interesting in some ways, especially when he is pondering whether to take a mistress or visit a brothel, and when he is discussing his courtship of Katherine with a friend.  The heroine Katherine is beautiful but not particularly interested in London society.  She comes from a somewhat dysfunctional family background, but her parents obviously care about her as well.  Her dialogues with her cousin Sibyl are also worth reading.  In fact, much of the charm of the story comes as much from the lovely extended dialogues as it does from the narrative, the premises of the plot, the revelations that build up slowly (including a Big Secret), not to mention all the careful research that shows through in the descriptions of a bath in a London brothel and other seedy areas.<br />The tone is a cross between London's THE BAD BARON'S DAUGHTER,  Chase's VISCOUNT VAGABOND, and Brockway's ALL THROUGH THE NIGHT.  [I mention these particular titles quite deliberately, as you will see if you read the book].<br />The cover is very classy.  I have to mention this, because so many covers are just clinches.   This is a book you can safely carry around.	2002-05-30
US	50375720	R10GHHJ5KBCVFS	0821760076	824576477	Crossed Quills (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A very nice political Regency...	This book of Carola Dunn is actually rather untypical of her, or so I believe.  I came to Carola Dunn via gentler Regencies which had little overt politics.  CROSSED QUILLS (what a marvellous name!) is a book that depends strongly on a reader's understanding of the political and social issues behind the glitter of upper-class life.<br />Plot summary: The heroine Pippa (Philippa) is the daughter of a deceased Radical MP (radicals being those who advocated greater and faster reform measures than the Whigs, although some radicals belonged to the Whig party).  Her father was Prometheus, a brilliant orator and speech-writer, whose honesty and refusal to accept bribes in return for supporting the government was well-known.  At his death, his work (in print) is continued by his elder daughter.  <br />Enter the hero, a new peer, who has just succeeded to his great-uncle's barony, and has lived a fairly straightened life with his mother, stepfather (a kindly vicar), and eight siblings - one sister and seven half-brothers and half-sisters.  To help support this large brood, he has been writing Gothic romances under a pseudonym, which has affected his writing on any topic.  [Think melodrama, abductions, mysterious heirs, mad monks, and so forth.  Think lush imagery.  Think purple prose].  <br />Lord Selworth needs help in crafting his maiden speech, and thinks of Prometheus.  Fortunately his sister Albina (Bina), a young society matron, is old friends with Pippa.  She provides him an introduction, and Selworth persuades the Lisle family to come to London and stay with Bina, thus solving two sets of problems.  <br />The rest of the story is taken up by the efforts of Pippa to help Wynn Selworth without revealing her identity, the secondary romance between her sister and Wynn's friend, the disastrous effects of the loose tongue of Wynn's half-sister, and the reaction of society to the revelation of Wynn's identity as a writer of Gothics.  If Wynn is \\"outed\\", will he be taken seriously as a politician, especially a reforming one?  Will his maiden speech be successful?<br />If you read romances regularly, you know that the answer to both these questions is yes, albeit a qualified yes here.  When you read the story, it helps to know the background of political and social unrest, the practice of the government of bribing MPs to vote for the government (usually with the promise of a sinecure or a pension), and above all, the extreme fear that ultra-Tories such as those in the Liverpool government had towards the slightest efforts at reform in the post-Waterloo era.  The plight of the unemployed returning soldiers and sailors is touched upon lightly, as is the unhappiness of the Luddites and the future Chartists with the status quo socially, economically, and politically.   Some minor but historically figures appear briefly or are referred to - William Cobbett, Henry Grey Bennett, Sir Francis Burdett, Henry Brougham, Castlereagh, and so forth.  <br />I liked this book very much, but found that I had to read it rather more slowly than the norm to appreciate the intricacies of certain situations.  The story tone is light but occasionally melancholic, reflecting the frustrations of Philippa with her inability to own her identity to Wynn Selworth (forget publicly!).  As I said, if you like the politically oriented stories of Anthea Malcolm (and her successor Tracy Grant), you will probably appreciate this story which is a cross between the Grant/Malcolm books and the typical Regency.  Not as politically-heavy, but not for the typical romance reader.	2002-05-28
US	50375720	RAOY6COOO4HN1	0451152891	355985883	Secrets of the Heart (Signet Super Regency)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	If you like tortured heroines...	- this work should be right up your alley.  Why is that most romances have tortured heroes (as in heroes with a troubled past) and the heroines have at best an icky uncle, stepfather, or mother?  I was wondering about this issue, when I realized that Balogh (and to a certain extent) Carla Kelly and Allison Lane specialize in heroines with very troubled pasts.   In most Balogh books, you will be reading about heroines who have experienced much and have suffered much, and have internalized it all.  Consider for example, her THE SECRET PEARL, or HEARTLESS or even the more light-hearted traditional Regency LORD CAREW'S BRIDE (light, by comparison, that is).  By suffering, I do not mean that the heroine has been physically tortured, but that she has been placed in difficult and even dangerous situations, that she may have been sexually abused, that she has almost certainly been emotionally abused.  Other authors write such heroines, but only Balogh writes with stunning emotional intensity.  When it works, it works.<br />Unfortunately, SECRETS OF THE HEART did not quite work for me.  It might be that I felt that the heroine was not completely honest with the hero from the outset, explaining her circumstances.  It might be that I did not believe Sarah's helplessness in that I felt that she had other choices at the time, and that she elected to choose what she did.  [It is not that I make any moral judgments about this, or about her failure to seek help, but in a romance, I would like a heroine who is more perfect that I am!].  Be that as it may, Sarah makes one fateful decision which will haunt her through her brief marriage - and subsequent divorce - from a Duke, no less.<br />The story actually picks up when the Duke encounters Sarah after many years.  She is now in company with his younger sister, much to his dismay and appears to be encouraging a bounder to court the young heiress.  As to why Sarah acts the way she does, you will have to read the book.  This is one story about which it is difficult to write without giving away the whole story, ending included.  <br />I think why I responded to Sarah less favorably than to Priscilla (A PRECIOUS JEWEL) was over her honesty.   Priscilla, a high-class prostitute, is open about her profession and how it will be viewed by society.  She is scarcely older than Sarah, when she has to make a difficult choice, and she makes that with courage, with understanding of her future, and in the face of the fact that she has no family, no friends, and no money.  Sarah has all three, and yet, she chooses a very different way, closing her eyes to her past actions and how society (or a future husband) might view them.  What lodges in my throat is not what happened to her (entirely believable and very tragic) but the fact that she does not confront these sad events until it is almost too late.<br />If you like a flawed hero and heroine who are really unable to communicate with each other and, where the hero believes the worst of the heroine (and the heroine then lies to him), this book may appeal to you.  If on the other hand, you want a Balogh story where the hero and heroine are flawed but at least one of them has a backbone earlier in the narrative, you might want to try one of the other Balogh titles I have mentioned - HEARTLESS (which is a stronger rendering of SECRETS OF THE HEART in my opinion), THE SECRET PEARL (which begins with a married man picking up a prostitute for the night), or A PRECIOUS JEWEL (where a shy and not-very-brave hero goes to a society brothel). <br />Good but not Balogh at her best is my summary.	2002-05-23
US	50375720	R1PEG5F8BT043P	0451181530	774158908	Miss Whittier Makes a List	Books	3	11	16	N	N	A Kelly about which I have mixed feelings...	Actually, to tell the truth, I have mixed feelings about virtually all her books.  I am a hopeless sucker for them, keep buying them, and yet - and yet - some of them leave me dissatisfied.<br />MISS WHITTIER MAKES A LIST is one of those books.  I had mixed feelings about the naval part of it, although it was beautifully done, and it awoke in me the desire to read more nautical fiction (after which I know a lot more about what a typical British captain in this period would be like).  The heroine was spunky, funny, and a Quaker.  I love Quaker heroines, starting probably with Laura Kinsale's Maddie in FLOWERS FROM THE STORM. [Heck, I like heroines whose religious and social background differ considerably from the heroine.  Making the heroine the daughter of an (Anglican) vicar is easy.  Making her a Methodist or a Quaker is a lot harder].<br />Hannah Whittier is the daughter of a merchant family, a family of American Quakers who make their fortune from shipping and overseas trade.  She is American, a Quaker, very young, and somewhat naive.  Captain Sir Daniel Sparks is English, presumably an Anglican, the younger son of a peer, somewhat older, and far from naive. (Or so I would assume).  What could bring these two people together?  How about a little spot of impressment, a method whereby the British navy resorted to manning ships out of desperation, with experienced seamen being at a premium.  One of the best places to go looking was on British merchant ships;  but American ships would do at a pinch, given that many British-born seamen took positions there.  Impressing seamen off American ships was one of the causes of the War of 1812, and this book is set just a few years before that.<br />Hannah's ship (on her way to meet a suitor) is waylaid by Captain Sir Daniel Spark's ship, and some men are impressed.  Hannah considers this atrocious, as do all the Americans.  It is a fact of life, however, in the Royal Navy, and for that matter in the British merchant navy andBritish privateers.  Later on, Hannah's ship is attacked by a French privateer, and Hannah is the only survivor picked up some days later by Sparks's ship.<br />The story takes place partly on shipboard where Hannah makes a series of discoveries about Sparks and his crew and wins their affections.  It then moves to enemy territory where Sparks and his crew are taken prisoner.  At some point, Hannah will meet the future Duke of Wellington (albeit under a slightly erroneous title, a rare mistake by the author).  Don't worry;  at the end, Hannah and her captain meet up and are presumably about to be married.  <br />When I first read this, I knew little about the British navy, and thus I oohed and aahed over the book.  After reading a series of fictional and non-fiction books (beginning with Hornblower and all the way down to a biography of Nelson), I have a better way to judge the merits of the book.  And, I had to compare the book in my mind to Laura London's THE WINDFLOWER.  Somehow, MISS WHITTIER does not stand the test so well.  In the London book, the American heroine is captured by British privateers (pirates);  in the Kelly book, the American heroine who is also a Quaker is captured by a well-born British captain of the Royal Navy.  <br />The romance is intriguing, particularly the issue of whether Hannah can be happy so far away from her fellow nationals and her co-religionists, and whether she can be happy with a man whose career keeps him away for so long.  I felt that the second issue was serious enough, without the complications of a different nationality and religion.  These were not well-addressed by the highly romantic ending.  Things fell into place too neatly.<BR>[Well, we do like happy endings in our romances, but still...]<br />I judge a romance by how well I respond to it initially, and by how well it stands up by itself (are the hero and heroine compatible?  are they going to be happy together?) and against other romances of the same type.   I liked this book very much at the beginning, and if this were my first Kelly, I would have given it at least a 4 and maybe even a 5.  But it is not.  And I have questions about the hero and heroine's compatibility, and how well Hannah will stand up to her husband's long absences.  There *were* happy marriages (think of the brothers of Jane Austen, for one) but these marriages rarely had so many complications.  And, given the other romances and romanticized nautical fiction I have read more recently, I cannot say that this naval Kelly stands up so well.  <BR>    This is not a bad book by any means, and it is well-written.  But, if you are looking for one of Kelly's best, I would recommend her short story \\"A Christmas Ornament\\" in a recent Christmas anthology, or among her books, MRS DREW PLAYS HER HAND (for a heroine who is a widow) or the tear-jerking SUMMER CAMPAIGN, or perhaps LIBBY'S LONDON MERCHANT (with its comically bumbling hero) and the sequel ONE GOOD TURN (published recently).<br />Rated: 3.5 (downgraded from 4 stars earlier this year)	2002-05-10
US	50375720	R2CZXGQLF2G0SU	0451181530	774158908	Miss Whittier Makes a List	Books	3	11	16	N	N	A Kelly about which I have mixed feelings...	Actually, to tell the truth, I have mixed feelings about virtually all her books.  I am a hopeless sucker for them, keep buying them, and yet - and yet - some of them leave me dissatisfied.<br />MISS WHITTIER MAKES A LIST is one of those books.  I had mixed feelings about the naval part of it, although it was beautifully done, and it awoke in me the desire to read more nautical fiction (after which I know a lot more about what a typical British captain in this period would be like).  The heroine was spunky, funny, and a Quaker.  I love Quaker heroines, starting probably with Laura Kinsale's Maddie in FLOWERS FROM THE STORM. [Heck, I like heroines whose religious and social background differ considerably from the heroine.  Making the heroine the daughter of an (Anglican) vicar is easy.  Making her a Methodist or a Quaker is a lot harder].<br />....<br />...<br />When I first read this, I knew little about the British navy, and thus I oohed and aahed over the book.  After reading a series of fictional and non-fiction books (beginning with Hornblower and all the way down to a biography of Nelson), I have a better way to judge the merits of the book.  And, I had to compare the book in my mind to Laura London's THE WINDFLOWER.  Somehow, MISS WHITTIER does not stand the test so well. ...These were not well-addressed by the highly romantic ending.  Things fell into place too neatly.<BR>[Well, we do like happy endings in our romances, but still...]<br />I judge a romance by how well I respond to it initially, and by how well it stands up by itself ...and against other romances of the same type.   I liked this book very much at the beginning, and if this were my first Kelly, I would have given it at least a 4 and maybe even a 5.  But it is not.  ...<BR>    This is not a bad book by any means, and it is well-written.  But, if you are looking for one of Kelly's best, I would recommend her short story \\"A Christmas Ornament\\" in a recent Christmas anthology, or among her books, MRS DREW PLAYS HER HAND (for a heroine who is a widow) or the tear-jerking SUMMER CAMPAIGN, or perhaps LIBBY'S LONDON MERCHANT (with its comically bumbling hero) and the sequel ONE GOOD TURN (published recently).<br />Rated: 3.5 (downgraded from 4 stars earlier this year)	2002-05-10
US	50375720	RQ80QTDM7ZPA	0451165772	303776431	Mrs. Mcvinnie's London Season (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Requires a major suspension of disbelief	Whatever happened to Carla Kelly in this book? Usually, while she builds up her stories and gives her characters suitable backgrounds, she makes them somewhat credible.  Quite often, her heroines are placed in truly desperate situations (her heroes do like to make them suffer), but we can believe in the romance and how the couple met - be it a Marquess's brother and heir rescuing the illegitimate-born foster-daughter of a deceased country vicar, or a young woman with a past rivalling the best and worst of Dickensian bathos.  In MRS MCVINNIE, while the characters were delightful and said funny things etc, I could not suspend my disbelief.  How is Mrs McVinnie, a woman of no birth, no family and no connections, considered a suitable chaperone in *society* for the daughter of a late peer?  <br />Funny - I must have been reading the wrong books all along, since it is apparent in this book that the relative of a servant in class-conscious Regency England will do just fine.  [I thought that privilege limited to Beau Brummell and to persons of some wealth].  And all the Regency romances I have read to date insist that a young lady must be chaperoned by another lady if she is make her come-out.<br />It was not that I did not emphathize with Jeanie McVinnie's situation at the outset or her efforts to get the household in working order (having been \\"impressed\\" into duty) or her problems with one of her charges.  But, for me, the first question - how do a couple get together credibly? - was not answered very well (and it did not show Mrs McVinnie in a very good light either).  Why could she not tell her father-in-law the truth?  Was she really that desperate that she had to commit a small spot of fraud to get away from her home situation?  This did not indicate a smart heroine, or one thinking deeply.<br />And the corollary question - how does Mrs McVinnie fit into English high society? - was not answered either.  Not to mention wondering whether the hero could indeed impressa woman on land for non-naval duties, as is done in this book.<br />Pleasant book, nice characters, but a plot premise that defies my suspension of disbelief.  <br />Rated 2.7 (the lowest grade I have awarded to a Kelly book)	2002-05-10
US	50375720	R21GRYX8A2F6VY	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Entertaining story, missed diagrams and maps	I picked this up as part of my \\"naval history and nautical fiction\\" kick.  The book is small, and can be easily read.  The language is simple enough so that someone who has nearly forgotten her geography and physics (like me)can follow the basic problem.  The story is not so much that of John Harrison, the man who solved the longitude problem, but of the whole issue.<br />The issue was simple and yet difficult - sailors were travelling out further and further in the search for spices, gold, other precious commodities and of course, slaves. [Not to mention, land and religious converts].  As trade expanded from the Mediterranean and via the Middle East to the Orient (for reasons not explained in this book and somewhat missed), sailors found themselves either hugging the African coast and then the Arabian and Persian coastline to India (and beyond), or travelling other routes to the fabled riches of the Orient, the Americas, and so forth.  The first option had some problems, notably pirates not to mention intense competition.  The second route - across the Atlantic and Pacific oceans - meant traversing the oceans without sight of land.  <br />In an era, where the only method of reckoning your location was latitude (through the position of the sun) and a compass, disasters resulted frequently.  Sometimes, navigators discovered new continents (such as the Americas) in an effort to find a new route to India;  more often, they were shipwrecked.  Vessels that managed to find any landing point often lost precious time, which meant lack of fresh water and also the disease of scurvy which took as many or more lives.   <br />Dava Sobel illustrates the problem of shipwreck with the story of Cloudesley Shovell who wrecked four out of five ships just off the British coast in 1707, and the subsequent near-disaster of Anson's around-the-world voyage where most of his ships were lost.  However, the problem of finding a ship's location through longitude had been an issue even earlier,as rewards offered by the Spanish Crown, the French, and other governments attested.   <br />   What is interesting about this book is not that Dava Sobel shows us how a self-educated watchmaker solved the problem of longitude decisively, despite opposition from those preferring to rely on astronomy, but that the whole problem is placed in the context of scientific discoveries and the growth of European trade with the rest of the world.  Many of the achievements of Galileo were driven by his efforts to solve the longitude problem, and to claim the prize offered by Philip II's Spain.  Similarly, the work of other astronomers was driven as much by desire to solve this intractable problem (and claim the rich rewards) as to make further astronomical discoveries.  <br />As for the commercial aspects, the plight of ships driven off course, or relying on a few known routes (and thus at the mercy of pirates and privateers) was well-known, enough to seriously upset merchants.  They demanded that the British Parliament offer a reward to solve the problem, and this coupled with the 1707 disaster off the Scilly Isles, was what prompted the famous reward offered for discovering the secret of longitude.<BR>    How could navigators with no land in sight determine where they were?  Latitude was easy enough, but longitude (the lines that run from pole to pole) could not be determined with exactitude.  Even a small error could be costly, leading to missed landfall and subsequent shipwreck or almost as costly errors in navigation.  [Anson's plight, sailing back and forth and missing his landfall by just a few miles, illustrates this well].  Many captains used a method called dead reckoning, but this was not accurate.  One solution was obviously to have two watches, one with the local time and the other with the time in London - but timepieces were notoriously unreliable at sea.<BR>    Dava Sobel spends the major part of the book explaining not only how John Harrison, from Yorkshire,built a series of brilliant timepieces, some of them friction-free, that solved this problem once and for all.  While his timepieces were too expensive for ordinary naval officers to buy, subsequent watchmakers built cheaper versions that were eventually available on the market.  Captain Cook made his famous voyage using a timepiece based on Harrison's near-final version.  If that were all, the book would be interesting enough, but Sobel goes further to show how Harrison's reward was delayed by the machinations of those who believed that astronomy offered a superior answer, not to mention Harrison's own perfectionism. [If he had offered his first version to the Board and not criticized it, he would have obtained the reward faster - a lesson perhaps to would-be inventors in subsequent decades]. <br />While this was a fascinating read, I really missed maps and diagrams.  While the version I read was a paperback, I felt that a few sketches and illustrations would not have hurt.  I am told that the illustrated version of this book makes for a better read.  I should also add that this book is not a biography of Harrison and his son, but a look at the whole issue of longitude in the context of scientific discovery and the growth of trade and exploration.	2002-05-08
US	50375720	RDO3WYWZOCFEL	0393314693	438946422	The Wooden World: An Anatomy of the Georgian Navy	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Fantastic resource for mid-18th century British navy	I am not an expert on the British navy by any means.  I first encountered this book as a recommendation on a reading list for Patrick O'Brian fans (and I have just started to read O'Brian and other writers of nautical fiction).  Since I had so many questions about the British navy, this book seemed like a great resource.<br />It is a great resource. No questions about that.  Like Jane Austen's Letter, it sits next to my bed and I dip into it from time to time to figure out answers to X, Y, and Z.  It is also a useful corrective to myths about the Navy as a floating prison camp, populated solely by thieves, criminals, and various escapees from normal life, and officered by brutal chaps like Bligh.  <br />The book does not claim to be about the British navy in the time of Napoleon and Nelson (although the author occasionally makes references to events and problems of the last decade of the 18th century).  For what it is, an analysis of the British navy in the mid-18th century, it is fantastic.  Several institutions - such as the Admiralty and the Press gang - existed in this time (and prior to this time), and they carried over largely unreformed to the time of Nelson (and the fictional Aubrey & Maturin, and Hornblower etc).  <br />There is one problem with it - for which I take off one star.  That is the fact that British society and politics changed dramatically between the Seven Years War and the Napoleonic Wars, and this book cannot do justice to the problems of the British navy in the latter period.  Which, unfortunately, just happens to be the period that all my favorite nautical books seem to be set in.   Rodgers mentions this at one point (when he talks about the rigid social structure allowing the officers to be more relaxed about discipline and hierarchy).  Unfortunately, he does not explore the corollary - that officers became sterner about hierarchy and more rigid about punishment and discipline as the social structure broke down under the influence of theIndustrial Revolution, the French Revolution, and other factors.<br />There is one other problem.  Rodgers talks about the fact that all officers were once ratings (what we consider sailors), and that even the Admirals of the Fleet had to serve for some years as ratings.  Unfortunately, this statement rather glosses over the difference between being a captain's servant or a rating who was clearly officer-track and usually from a well-connected family, and a rating whose only hope was to rise to a petty officer if that.  [Not to mention the impressed man with no nautical experience who might remain a landman until paid off].  I do not recollect the details of Nelson or Cochrane's service either, but I understand that at least one of them was carried on the books of a ship (or two) in name only until they attained the rank of midshipman.  In short, they were never actually ratings - and Nelson in particular was promoted rapidly.   At this point, the Navy is beginning to sound a bit like the British army.<br />The most interesting parts of the book for me were the descriptions of the ratings (the chapters on manning and discipline) and the descriptions of the officers.  From the latter, I confirmed a theory that I had - that the Navy was a far better career choice for the younger son, or the son of an impoverished upper-class family, or the young man with no connections and no fortune.  Rodgers does not discuss the background of the officers in great detail, but from other sources (Hibbert's biography of Nelson, for example), I learned that a substantial number of officers had clerical backgrounds (fathers who were clergymen) or parents who were professional men (surgeons, doctors, solicitors).   I wonder though what proportion of them had a family member connected to the Navy, either in active service or working at the Admiralty.  In any case, the career choices of men as diverse as Nelson (with a maternal uncle in the Navy, and as a younger son of a country clergyman) and Troubridge and Collingwood (men of no particular family and with no conenctions) was better explained.  <br />One big myth remains - that brutal officers were the norm in the Navy.  Rodgers takes great pains to dispell this idea, by pointing out that the Navy was far more lenient in practice than suggested by the Articles of War (or by anecdotes), that officers were not particular brutal (and in fact, brutal officers usually suffered damage to their career, not to mention going in fear of attack on shore), and that the choice of punishments aboard was limited.  [Docking pay was not an option for example, when payments were in arrears of a month or longer].   <br />The picture of the British navy as painted in THE WOODEN WORLD  is quite a different picture painted by well-known stories such as Bligh and the Bounty, or films such as \\"Damn the Defiant!\\"  Rodgers however does not explain how an officer such as Bligh (a brilliant navigator to be sure) became an Admiral.  The problem lay, one suspects, in the system of promotion.  Once a man became a captain, barring death or disgrace (resulting in being thrown out of the service), if he lived long enough, he would make Admiral.  Becoming a captain was as much a matter of connections as it was of good luck and good seamanship and leadership.  [This of course is well-known to lovers of the Hornblower and Aubrey-Maturin series].<br />I have several minor quibbles here and there, but this book is definitely a satisfying read, if somewhat hard to plough through at one sitting.  After reading this, I felt better equipped to tackle the next Hornblower or Aubrey/Maturin novel.	2002-05-06
US	50375720	R1X5ARWWYY7M8O	0373310110	676185613	The Country Gentleman (Regency Category Romances)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Another good Regency from Dinah Dean...	THE COUNTRY GENTLEMAN is a stand-alone romance featuring a romance between the very practical vicar's daughter and a mysterious gentleman who has bought a nearby estate.  Prudence has loving parents, but her mother is constantly ailing - therefore much of the parish work falls to Prudence who wins hearts by visiting the poor and ill.  [This book is also a marvellous indictment of the effects that landlord actions such as enclosure and converting agricultural land to shooting preserves had on the rural population].<br />Prudence has one big fear - she is not getting any younger, and there are few eligible men around.  They do have a large military camp nearby which provides some excitement.  In the meantime, the mysterious Mr Harris quietly learns the ways of local society.  Prudence discovers much to her astonishment that he is an intimate of one Sir Arthur Wellesley whose visit to the area is to be kept secret.  [Why? We learn later].<br />During the romance, there is a fire in the village, and a good description of rural firefighting methods.  During the fire, an official document goes missing.  Prudence's suspicions fall on Mr Harris.  The real spy is unmasked dramatically.  <br />This book is a pleasant read about village life from the point of view of a conscientious vicar's daughter and a new landowner.  The descriptions of the ringing of the bells, the dilapidated estate belonging to a largely absentee landowner, and the general socio-economic condition of rural England circa 1807 are well worth reading.  The romance is a bit weaker, but still convincing.  <br />Recommended reading for lovers of traditional Regency romances.	2002-05-02
US	50375720	R1QGVPHCCO1ZW1	0373302037	818436585	The Country Cousins	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dean's strongest English Regency, perhaps	Dinah Dean, who also wrote Masquerade (Mills &amp; Boons historicals) as Marjorie May, wrote a marvellous series set in Russia that are now collectibles.  She also wrote three romances set in England - The Cockermouth Mail (reviewed by me some months ago), The Country Gentleman, and The Country Cousins.  The last two books are set in the same area, and somewhat related in that the hero and heroine of TCG appear as secondary characters late into TCC.  TCC also links into her Russian series with a minor but important character who is the hero of one of her Russian books.<br />First, a warning.  This book is *not* easy to find.  It is not as highly priced as suggested, but it is not one of Dean's more readily available books.  I really don't know why this is so, but I thought I should warn any person reading this book.<br />Dean's merits, as far as I am concerned, are the vivid realism of her settings (with detailed descriptions of the countryside, local problems, socio-economic issues, and of course, the houses and their interiors) coupled with believable and gentle plots with generally likeable plots.  The Cockermouth Mail featured a story where the hero and heroine met on a stagecoach and ended up travelling together (along with other passengers).  THE COUNTRY COUSINS begins in London, but moves rapidly down to its true setting.<br />What is so unusual about this book?  Perhaps the heroine, Caroline, who is the daughter of a City merchant (a Cit) who has married a lady from minor gentry.  By marrying down, Caroline's mother has been cut off (or has cut herself off) from her old lifestyle, her friends and even her surviving relative, a sister who married upwards (by catching a baron).  The story begins when this sister's stepson arrives at Caroline's home in the City on washing day (clearly a mistake).  Caroline and her mother have mixed feelings about the invitation he offers to Caroline - she may come down to his country home to stay with his half-sister Julia.  There is a family tragedy of sorts - Julia's parents (the baron and baroness) and her younger sister are trapped as prisoners in France following the rupture of the Peace of Amiens (1803), and Julia has grown up without them.  What is worse, she is obviously on bad terms with her elder half-brother, a man whom Caroline does not like.<br />In this book, we watch Caroline learning about country ways (including what a heifer is) and we watch her jumping to mistaken conclusions about certain people.  All this takes place against the backdrop of the Napoleonic Wars (including the Portuguese campaign) which *is* discussed by the gentry - unlike the lack of such discussion in Austen's novels.  As it happens, the course of the Portuguese campaign directed by Wellington will play a minor but important role in the plot.<br />I cannot describe the novel much more without giving away some major spoilers.  If you like a gentle well-written novel, with a woman developing an affection for a man she cannot quite trust for several reasons, this may be what you are looking for.  There is mischief afoot in the novel, but the villains and other mischief-makers do not play a very prominent role in the book.  This is not the book if you are looking for a lot of adventure and fast action.  Things happen slowly and the secrets of the hero are revealed relatively late.  [And no, he is not a tormented hero].  <br />I did find it slightly puzzling that Caroline, such a sensible young woman, would believe Julia's version of events over that of Robert's (the hero).  However, she is not perfect, and she does make some mistakes, some more amusing than others.  And we need some reason to keep the hero and heroine apart - perhaps blood is what counts in Caroline deciding to trust her cousin over her step-cousin.<br />I highly recommend this novel for lovers of classic Regency romances.	2002-05-02
US	50375720	R2NWY2HAQQME3J	0743214587	959873800	Kydd: A Novel.	Books	4	2	5	N	N	So marvellous, it had me right there...	This is an outstanding first effort, and the first book on naval fiction that presents the British navy in the age of Napoleon from the viewpoint of a pressed man. [If you finish reading this book and do not wonder about the inhumanity of the system, there is really nothing to be said]. Thomas Paine Kydd, named for the great radical Tom Paine, is a wigmaker caught up in a press gang and sent to a ship that is about to set sail. Unfortunately for him, the ship is captained by a weak-willed and somewhat incompetent (if kindly) Captain Caldwell and ruled by a number of lieutenants who vary from humane and intelligent to vicious. Fortunately for Kydd (the protagonist for whom the novel is named), he falls in with a mentor who begins to teach him the ropes (literally). After that mentor's untimely death, he is taken in hand by a mysterious seaman with a rather interesting past (no spoilers here). There is a desertion (after a rather trying episode, both for Kydd and the reader), a miraculous save, an apparent miscarriage of natural justice (if strict application of naval justice), and so forth. By the end, Kydd and his friends have the prospect of a dazzling frigate, the Artemis, where they may hope to make prize money.<br />Some pointers. You will probably want to read this fast, given how much happens within the book (and you might want to skip some of the more stomach-turning episodes, depending on your sensibilities). This book is however definitely worth re-reading, more slowly, both to understand Kydd's experiences and that of some more unfortunate men pressed into service. Having a naval history or a guide to the British navy at hand helps considerably since there is no glossary. [I recommend Stephen Biesty's Man-of-War for a graphical illustration of the various decks, N.M. Rodger's THE WOODEN WORLD to understand the conditions under which sailors and officers lived, and for those wanting a bit about the Napoleonic navy, either the out-of-print FIGHTING SAIL which is more a narration of major battles or the Patrick O'Brian book about the navy. Actually any reasonably good book about the late Georgian navy will do well for the last part].<br />In none of the other naval fiction works, have I found any discussion about whether the discipline imposed on the sailors was necessary, or whether the type of corporal discipline imposed did more to ruin a good man than to bring about order. [A brilliant cinematic portrait is DAMN THE DEFIANT, with Alec Guinness and Dirk Bogarde]. <br />Yes, there are flaws, not noticeable to me (a newbie to nautical fiction) at the first reading.  The book does tend to present many persons in stereotypical form, including the \\"noble\\" hero (who indulges in a fit of the sullens after a lashing).  The officers suffer in particular, but so do many of the seamen.  On the other hand, the novel is written from the point of view of a landman pressed into service who rises to the rank of ordinary seaman.  For a low-ranking rating new to life at sea and without ties to any of the officers (many ratings were in fact recruited by officers from their home areas), what happened abovedecks was probably mysterious - and the officers were perhaps also unapproachable.   If the stories appear episodic, well, life at sea was probably episodic, and that of a pressed landman learning the ropes was probably even more episodic.  There is one flaw in this book - the author spends a lot of time discussing various nautical esoterica that is beyond the comprehension of this reader without resort to a glossary (not available).  There is also a lot of dialect used, and no glossary to help with that either.<br />I still think this is a great first novel, which qualifies for four stars by having me believing in the world created by the author completely and by making me read through a library copy and then order one for my own collection.  And I definitely want to read the sequel. Whether this series will develop into anything likethe Hornblower series (where the first novel published was BEAT TO QUARTERS when Hornblower was already a captain) or the Aubrey-Maturin series (where the characters are anything but stereotyped) remains to be seen.<br />I look forward eagerly to reading ARTEMIS, and in the meantime I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in the Hornblower and Aubrey-Maturin books.  It provides a much-needed perspective in fiction, at all events.	2002-05-01
US	50375720	RVGBWOGIUB3GN	0440223725	792718288	All Through the Night	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Amazing portrayal of two people with emotional baggage	I have been experiencing a romance drought, in that none of the usual books can please me.  Having taken to reading Lord Peter Wimsey and then Horatio Hornblower and the letters of Jane Austen simultaneously, I nevertheless picked up this book, on the recommendation of All About Romance.  <br />This is an amazing book with very few missteps.  Firstly, a warning.  This is the story of two people with secrets, one with a double life, and with considerable emotional baggage.  If you do not like books about troubled heroes and heroines, avoid this book.  Secondly, the tone of the book is obsessive.  Both hero and heroine are obsessed with each other, and at least one secondary character is obssessed with the hero.  The hero has a reason to \\"stalk\\" the heroine, but if this theme and the overarching theme of obsession makes you uncomfortable, avoid this book.  Lastly, this book contains some rather explicit scenes (definitely R rated) but the hero and heroine do not actually come together until relatively late in the book (and after they are married).  If you like your bedroom scenes earlier and more conventional, again, this book should be avoided.<br />All right.  Now to a quick review of the book.  I cannot praise Brockway enough for coming up with these two memorable characters (to whom I can compare only David de Abyngdon in Hunter's BY ARRANGEMENT and Miss Milton in Kelly's MISS MILTON SPEAKS HER MIND, both reviewed by me).  Both hero and heroine have murky backgrounds, exist on the edges of society while moving among the very elite, and possess dark secrets.  Both are haunted by their past decisions and by the actions of others.  The hero is Henry Seward, otherwise the Hound of Whitehall, a notably spy and intelligence officer.  He is not noble, he is illegitimate, and the reputed son of a cold-hearted spymaster. The heroine Anne is the daughter of a merchant, who married a wealthy gentleman who became a war hero (of sorts) by dying in action, along with most of his crew.  She has his rank, his money, her father's money, and the cachet of being a war hero's widow.   Anne however is not free to spend her income as she wants, thanks to the tightfisted trustees who do not agree with her wishes.  She wants to spend her late husband's wealth to aid wounded and impoverished soldiers and sailors returning from the Napoleonic Wars to a peace where they are not wanted.  She tries to raise funds from the social elite, but promises of funds are not kept.  Anne cannot expose the non-payers, because she is chaperoning her late husband's cousin who is of obscure if genteel birth.  To do so would ruin young Sophia North.  Anne, therefore, devises a method of getting the money from the deadbeats.  How?  Well, she becomes a master thief who steals jewels and money from the non-payers, and then from other aristocrats who can afford to lose their money and show no social conscience.  With every theft, she becomes more and more reckless.<br />During one such theft, she is cornered by the Hound of Whitehall, aka Henry Seward, aka Jack.  She manages her escape brilliantly, but leaves behing a man obsessed with catching her - firstly, because she has escaped from him, and secondly, because of the method of her escape.  There is also a little promise that she had made him (under duress) and broken.  Seward suspects that the master thief is a member of the social elite, and he knows the thief is a woman.  So he obtains an introduction into the Prince Regent's circle, where he is looked down upon by most of the courtiers and hangers-on because of his birth and lack of wealth, but accepted because the Regent accepts him [think Brummell here].  In a series of confrontations between him and Anne, her secret is teased out by Jack and then guessed at (partially) by some others.  Anne is in jeopardy, not just because of her thieving at a time when stealing a handkerchief was a serious crime, but also because she is believed to have stolen a mysterious government document.<br />The denouement is brilliant.  A lot of surprising, and sometimes unpleasant secrets are revealed, showing up Jack's lifetime struggle with morality and ethics in a new light. [Clue: the secret lies in his birth and childhood in a Scottish orphanage, as well as in his name].<br />The real villains are not who you would guess. Sophia, Anne's ward, plays an ambiguous role turning from an ambitious if selfish young woman into something rather more complex (and not more likeable).  At the end, we are not sure whether Jack and Anne will be able to live happily ever after, given the number of forces ranged against them.  We must hope that they will have a Happily Ever After ending, bound by their love and mutual obsession, and their recognition of the emotional baggage that has so warped each of them for so long.  <br />Some caveats:  Anne's playing a companion (rather than a chaperone, the correct term) to a young relative of her late husband was not too well-explained.  A companion was usually a lady without financial resources of her own.  Otherwise, the period, with its political and social turmoil, was beautifully evoked - even if at times, the book sounded more Georgian (late 18th century) rather than late Regency.  <br />Recommendation:  Must read - if you like dark complex books with characters balanced between good and evil.  I could not put this book down and read it (rapidly) in two hours.	2002-04-17
US	50375720	R14JF48DOWYBQ4	156458321X	968678533	Stephen Biesty's Cross-Sections: Man-Of-War	Books	5	19	19	N	N	If you love the age of sail and nautical fiction...	you should definitely try to get this book.  I am a landlubber, who has just discovered the pleasures of Hornblower and Aubrey/Maturin (via Austen's Persuasion).  Along with a number of more serious naval non-fiction reference works, notably THE WOODEN WORLD by N.A.M. Rodger (ISBN 0393314693; ASIN 0393314693)I found a copy of this wonderful book first at my public library and then in a sale at my local store.  <br />This is an oversized book, thin but full of detailed information.  A man-of-war, one of the mainstays of the Georgian fleet during the wars of the 1700s and early 1800s, is \\"cut away\\" section by section and deck by deck to illustrate life on board as well as the structure of the ship.  The first works better than the latter, although I got a very good idea of how the ship's anchor works as well as how the ship crew handled guns and gunpowder (as well as the dangers of a loose gun).  I wished that the authors had provided a bird-eye view of the ship from the top of the masts, and showed sailors working the sails.  Apart from this and other minor quibbles, I think I learned more from this book faster than I had expected.  <br />Yes, this is a children's book, but it is highly recommended by sites specializing in naval fiction of the Georgian and Regency era (think Napoleonic Wars, Revolutionary Wars, as well as sites devoted to O'Brian and Forester).  Children will be delighted by various grosser aspects of life abroad (the very basic toilet and bathing facilities, the surgeon in action during battle, and of course the maggot-filled biscuits), not to mention trying to find a certain stowaway.  Adults will revel in little details that explain things that have puzzled them.<br />I started out not knowing port from starboard, and very little else.  By the end of this book, while I cannot claim to be proficient, I certainly understand that a ship has three masts in several sections, that it has several decks, and that life at sea was more complicated than is sometimes depicted in fiction.  <br />You might also want to try \\"The Visual Dictionary of Ships and Sailing\\" (ISBN 1879431203; ASIN 1879431203) which apparently discusses different types of ships, the sails and ropes, and so forth.  I have not seen this book yet, but it looks interesting.	2002-04-08
US	50375720	R1DZA9BHLRGKFQ	0802710271	423515594	The English Witch	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Solid and well-crafted 2nd book from Loretta Chase	I read this after reading Isabella (which is the prequel, and the first book written by Chase - review to follow).  THE ENGLISH WITCH is the story of Basil Trevelyan, cousin of the hero in Isabella and also the villain.  Chase does something similar to Mary Balogh in her various \\"series\\", in that she redeems the villain in this book.  So, be warned if you do not like this kind of plot.<br />The plot is not largely set in Albania, despite what the blurbs and the reviews say.  If you do not like exotic locales, avoid this book, even though the Albanian scenes are relatively small.<br />This book, like the other early books by Chase, is a traditional Regency, which means no explicit sex (by and large) and the hero and the heroine behaving within the documented constraints of the Regency society.  [I am beginning to different traditional Regencies from Regency historicals, by whether the hero and heroine adhere to social norms and customs or whether they act on the extremes of said customs and whether they behave and think like Regency people or 20th century people.  Length alone is no longer a good judge, nor is explicit lovemaking].  If you love the Regency historicals by Chase, some of which are very very good, you will find this book and others like it more disappointing.<br />I was delighted by this book, which is hard to find and out of print (I obtained my copy via inter-branch loan at my public library).  I also deeply regret that Walker and Avon no longer publish traditional Regencies, since both companies published some of the best works by Chase and Jo Beverley (and some others no longer writing Regency romances).<br />Now to the plot - Basil Trevelyan, the villain of ISABELLA, has redeemed himself by hard work and some service of a mysterious kind (perhaps spying) to the Crown.  He has also managed to make his own fortune with the help of Isabella's aunt.  Basil is in Greece when a letter from his aunt asks him to help out a young Englishwoman travelling inAlbania with her father and fiance, both archaelogists and historians.<br />Alexandra has a problem or rather several problems.  She is not interested in marrying her fiance, who has been foisted on her to repay her father's debt to said fiance's father.  Furthermore, her fiance is completely uninterested in her as a woman.  This would be bad enough;  things turn worse when his indifference to his fiancee is interpreted by love-struck Albanian males as encouragement to court Alexandra.  One such young Albanian in fact carries off Alexandra, intending to make her his wife.  This, not unnaturally, upsets his family for several reasons, one being that Alexandra is known as the \\"English Witch\\" for her unearthly beauty.<br />Alexandra is rescued by Basil, who is pretending to be her secret fiance who has been out in the world making his fortune.  Using this story, Alexandra persuades her father to delay her forthcoming marriage.  When she returns to England, she has few doubts about her continuing problems.  First, there is her unworldly and exasperating father's debts.  His creditor will not accept repayment of those debts, preferring a marriage to Alexandra (which is to raise his family socially). Secondly, there is the problem that Alexandra's beauty does not mean that she will win honorable offers.  In fact, the beautiful Alexandra Ashmore (?) has been plagued in the past by the most dishonourable proposals possible - which was why her father took her off to Albania and arranged her marriage to suit himself.<br />Basil, naturally, is not immune to the English Witch.  Fortunately for Alexandra, the heir to a dukedom catches sight of her and is determined to make her his bride. Definitely honorable. There are of course some minor problems.  Firstly, Basil continues his attentions to Alexandra, although more subtly (partly in an old rivalry with Lord Arden, the new suitor; partly because he is really interested in Alexandra).  Secondly, Alexandra's father's debt has grown mysteriously, and she is not sure as to whether she can get out of her engagement (her real one, not her pretend one to Basil).  Thirdly, the Marquess of Arden is not the most faithful suitor, tending to be distracted by pretty neighbors and the like.  And of course, he has his own idealized view of her, which will not distract him from future womanizing.  Basil has a dreadful reputation as well, and in fact, had left England in disgrace.  <br />So Alexandra hardly has great choices.  She cannot jilt her fiance, because of her father's debt.  She feels she should not marry Arden, because he will be an inconsistent husband and one who intends to keep her on a pedestal.  And Basil is out of the question, of course.<br />Who will Alexandra marry?  There is a thwarted elopement (which had me in stitches), there is the sister of Lord Arden who feels (perhaps rightly) that he *must* marry Alexandra, if only because he is throwing away his last chance of redemption otherwise.  There is Basil's own strange behavior.  There is Alexandra's father who is strongly opposed to any match with Basil. There is of course the Debt. And there are all those relations of Isabella who have a bone to pick with Basil (from his behavior in the previous book).<br />This was a delightful novel.  I was rooting at different times for different men, and wondering how Alexandra would find a satisfactory compromise between the needs of her father, social constraints, and her own wish for a stable and successful marriage.  At one time, I thought that she had made the wrong choice - but hoped that her husband would turn out satisfactorily.  ...I would strongly recommend this book to any lover of Regency romance - and commend it along with KNAVES WAGER (my favorite Chase book) as worthy of inclusion on the all-time best list.  If you can, read ISABELLA before this, to understand precisely why Basil was so abhorrent to Alexandra's father and some of his own relations.  However, this novel can standon its own.	2002-04-03
US	50375720	R3JBHD1FVEY31U	0380717719	345575671	The Fortune Hunter (Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A delightful Regency romance, among her best.	Firstly, this novel is part of a series (book #5 I believe.  Fortunately, this novel does stand alone  although characters from other books pop up here - Sophie and Randal Ashby, Chart and Clytemnestra Ashby, Piers and Emily Verderan (hero and heroine of EMILY AND THE DARK ANGEL, said to be Beverley's best), and even Kevin Renfrew, the Daffodil Dandy (a minor character in DEIRDRE AND DON JUAN). <br />The story - Amy de Lacy, the beauty and the middle sister, decides that marrying a rich man (who will settle dowries on her sisters, and who will also pay off the debts on her brother's estate) is the only way out of the hard times that have engulfed her family since her spendthrift father's death. Amy - actually Amethyst, but she hates the name - has one older sister Beryl (who is really plain), and a younger sister Jacynth and a brother Jasper. And there are two elder servants who should have been pensioned off, who play a small part in her calculations.<br />At the beginning of the story, Jasper has just won a small fortune - five thousand pounds - in a lottery. Should the family try and pay off the debts on the estate? Should the family acquire some comforts? Should the family invest the money for an income that will allow them a decent standard of living (they are so poor that they cannot afford real tea)? Or should the money be settled on very small dowries for the three girls and a pension for the servants? <br />Well, the problem with the last is - who will the girls marry in this isolated part of England? The author's excellent note or preface makes it clear that part of the attractions of a London season was the wider choice of marriage partners. Furthermore, small dowries will not really lure wealthy husbands. <br />Amy decides to risk nearly all the money on a trip to London, where she is sure that her beauty (and she *is* a beauty) will attract at the very least a wealthy Cit (a London merchant or businessman) who can afford to pay out handsomeley for a beautiful wife who is the daughter of a baronet. True that she has virtually no connections [her mother was a Cit], but she has looks and she is a lady. <br />In the meantime (before going to London),  Amy decides to try and attach the new owner of a nearby estate, although he is a Cit and rather reclusive at that.   During a storm, she must seek shelter and thus ends up meeting Harry Crisp, who is the heir to a barony. Harry is smitten by her looks, and intends to propose marriage.<br />Will Amy marry Harry Crisp, and settle for future riches, and what aid he and his father can give at present? No. The quarrel between them is dramatic when she states her real intentions rather bluntly and destroys all his illusions. Harry returns to his friends (the Verderans), determined to forget this heartless fortune-hunter.   I will stop here to avoid spoiling the rest of the book, but seasoned readers will understand that Harry and Amy are destined to meet in the not-too-distant future.<br />This is a solid, well-crafted and charming book that I would happily recommend to any Regency romance lover who wants a good plot and strong multi-dimensional characters.  I liked it rather more than The Stanforth Secrets (Bk 2) and Deirdre and Don Juan (Bk 6).	2002-03-26
US	50375720	R2N8E9M3OG09PL	0786100575	503057596	Pride and Prejudice	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Audiobook well worth buying or renting	...I also strongly recommend that an interested reader try listening to the audio version of this novel.  If you think the prose of Austen dry, I assure you that you will find a good reading of it a revelation indeed.  Among the versions I recommend strongly are the version read by Irene Sutcliffe (Audio Partners/ Cover to Cover, or Chivers in the UK), and that by Kate Reading (Books on Tape, available from them).<br />I found the Reading version very good overall, and outstanding for the portrayal of Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Mrs Bennet.  The best scene, in my opinion, was that of Lady Catherine confronting Elizabeth in the garden at Longbourn.  However, I found Elizabeth less easy to distinguish in certain other scenes from her sister Jane, and the men done not as well as I would have hoped.  Mr Darcy was a disappointment, in that Kate Reading read his dialogue in a less stately manner than I had expected.  However, the reading of the novel was overall very good as I have said.  I noticed many little details and phrases that I had overlooked in many readings of this novel, and that I had also ignored in my stay at the Republic of Pemberley (a website dedicated to Austen).<br />I have not yet had the pleasure of listening to the Irene Sutcliffe version, but I plan to buy it very soon.  ...<br />If you are rushed for time, or spend a lot of time in your car (or listening to tapes), or if you want to experience Austen in a different light, do try either reading.	2002-03-19
US	50375720	R22J1RAEZV163F	0700704256	419572000	Poor Relations: The Making of a Eurasian Community in British India, 1773-1833	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good introduction to an overlooked part of the Raj	This  book covers the British  Eurasian community,  descended from liaisions and marriages between British men and Indian (or Eurasian women).    As the book points out, other Eurasian communities, notably a Portuguese and a French Eurasian community, existed before the creation of British India. But the \\"Eurasians\\" that came to exercise the minds and consciences of some British politicians and religious leaders, and British Indian administrators, was that formed by marriages or other unions between British men and Indian wives (not even Eurasian wives). <br />The book does a good job in explaining why this community first came about - because of the paucity of European women in India, at a time when the journey was long and arduous;   because of the unsettled political future of Europeans in India for the first three centuries of their arrival as traders, and above all, because of the shaky financial position of many European men - merchants, administrators, or soldiers - when they first arrived.     As soon as the British consolidated their hold on native states and then began to create their own empire (first in Bengal, and then spreading through most of what is now India by 1818), and as travel to India became faster and more comfortable, things began to change.   More British women came out, supplanting the native concubine or Eurasian wife.  The \\"bibi\\" was replaced by the \\"memsahib\\", giving rise to what we know as the Raj.<br />It is a pity  that the book does not focus more on the crucial change in attitude towards the \\"poor relations\\" during the administrations of Hastings, Cornwallis, and then Wellesley.   As the empire expanded, tolerance of the natives and of the Eurasians seemed to diminish.    I would have liked to have seen this issue studied more.   <br />I would also have liked to have seen a  comparison of British attitudes towards their mixed-race offpsring in India, compared to that of the Portuguese or French or Spanish or Dutch official attitudes towards *their* mixed-raced offspring.  If official policies were remarkably different, why were they different?  Furthermore, how did the British treat non-British Eurasians?   It is argued that anti-Catholic sentiment played a part in the distrust of French and Portuguese Eurasians (who were usually Catholics).<br />The book touches very little on the role played by British political intrigue both in London and in British India.   Did Hastings' disgrace and removal have any connection to his having gone too \\"native\\"? [Hastings was noted as a scholar and patron of ancient Indian culture]. <br />Some Eurasians did very well - including one James Skinner, a famous soldier, and many bankers and administrators - but they relied on their personal contacts and friendships, rather than their education alone.   In the case of Skinner, Lake's support (and untimely death) made a difference at crucial moments.<BR>Did personal friendships of individual administrators and commanders (such as Lord Lake) make that much of a difference to the average Eurasian, as opposed to a brilliant soldier like Skinner? <br />Within the British community, class and the financial and less material resources that a particular British male could muster played a part in the future of his Eurasian offspring. The higher-class British fathers are more able to do more for their sons and daughters, with the daughters frequently marrying British officers, administrators and so forth.   Some of the children are even mentioned by their British fathers in their wills (back in England).  And of course, an upper-class British male could ensure some help to his Eurasian sons even if separated by two oceans and three continents.<br />By contrast, the lower-class British fathers are unable to help that much, or are unwilling to help.   Why were so many \\"wives\\" and children abandoned?  There was no way to to transport them back to England on Company-owned ships (this was Company policy).  Indian women were notalways willing to move to England, and often financial settlements were made by a departing British father for his Eurasian concubine and children.<br />There are some curious points.  Eurasians (the illegitimate scions of non-sanctioned unions) are considered \\"immoral\\" early on.   No such judgement was made about the illegitimate British-born children of peers and other notables, some of whom came out to India and fathered Eurasian children.<br />The book is about the Eurasian community before the Mutiny. It therefore does not claim to present the state of the community in the real \\"Raj\\" (actual Crown rule), nor does it pretend to explain what happened to the descendants of these people after Indian independence (1947). But it is a worthy source to begin with, although hard to find at a reasonable price.<br />Recommended reading for anyone seriously interested in early British Indian history (ca 1600-1818)<br />[revised September 4, 2002]	2002-02-15
US	50375720	R2EZYMWOQDGNUL	0440234700	413738002	The Bridegroom (Captive Hearts)	Books	2	14	15	N	N	From the perspective of a critical reader	- this book fell into the \\"I wish I had not bought this\\" category.  It is not particularly badly written, but I found the hero's actions to be less than romantic and the whole scenario somewhat unbelievable.  Furthermore, although the story is set in Regency-era London and then in Scotland, there was very little detail provided to make me feel that I was really in the period.  Yes, there was a derelict castle, there were the usual retainers.  But the story could have been set in Scotland in any year, in any century, apart from the occasional reference to transportation .  There were no references to what was happening elsewhere in politics, society or even in Scotland itself.  I find this kind of a narrative, torn from history, rather hard to take.  Where was the history in this historical romance?<br />I *am* picky about such things, and this review is for people who care about the use of history as more than wallpaper or a generic label.  If you are a Joan Johnston fan (or the author herself), ignore this review.  If you don't particularly care that the historical setting be somewhat close to real history, again, this review is not for you.<br />This book is related to AFTER THE KISS, although I suspect I am missing a book in between.  Very briefly put, between AFTER THE KISS and this book THE BRIDEGROOM, the daughters -  of a British duke have grown up.  One of them, Rebecca,  is unhappily married, and comes to love a man whom she cannot marry since he is so low in rank. [Her story and his forms the backdrop to the major story, that of her sister and a man out for revenge].<br />The hero Clay is a peer who has been disgraced by her father's actions (however well-intentioned). Since he lost his family, his title, his estates, and then his freedom, he bears a grudge against her entire family.  Althouh the heroine, Regina (Lady Regina Blackthorne) knows this, she forms a friendship with him, believing his grudge to be a matter of the past.  He has her kidnapped, thrown into a brothel from where he pretends to rescue her.  He then persuades her to marry him, before springing the series of revelations - he hates her and her family, he wants to be revenged on her father, and so forth.  He keeps his promises by preventing Regina from meeting her father, and vice versa.  There is some mystery generated by the fact the hero has been wrongly accused, of course, and that the real villain is at large and in an unexpected position to strike again.  There is however no reason given for the villain to want to hurt the hero in particular.<br />Part of my problems with this book was that I could not believe in the whole revenge scenario.  I could believe that the hero would want to be revenged for his sufferings, and that he could present himself falsely to a gullible female.  But could the heroine have been that gullible - to believe in the good faith of someone with cause for grievance, and to do some other stupid things?  While a convicted felon lost his estates, removing a title even from a convicted peer was not easy.  There is a complicated process of attainder.  Furthermore, Rebecca's marriage could not be annulled so easily, and certainly not on the whim of her husband alone. All this rather detracted from the story. I won't even go into the problems with Mick's real identity.<br />I had problems with the characterization as well.  Clay's desire to seek \\"compensation\\" for the loss of his title and estates (for several years) as well as the hardship he suffered is understandable.  But he seemed too much like a stock character, the wronged hero out for revenge [think Edmond Dantes of THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO].  He shows very little growth in the course of the story, although he recognizes - before the real villain is unmasked - that it is wrong to keep Regina and her father apart. Regina is amazingly quick to forgive Clay for putting her in danger and for tricking her into marriage, not to mention keeping her from her family.  <br />On the other hand, Rebecca and Mick were well-drawn, and I wished the book had been about them, even though Mick's good fortune is almost unbelievable.  <br />The minor characters tended to fade quickly and made little impression on me or even on the hero or heroine (since Regina forgot about the orphans so quickly, for example).<br />If you like a good tightly constructed plot, with a real sense of living in the Regency period, I really cannot recommend this book.  If you want your Regency lite, this book might satisfy, but again it might not, depending on how credible you find the romance between Clay and Regina.	2002-02-14
US	50375720	R5ISFBASZJW1	0451147472	950112710	A Debt of Honour (Signet)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Outstanding romance, with tricky issues	I wish this kind of Regency was still published today. I discovered the works of Diana Brown recently, and I strongly recommend her works (at least in traditional Regency). Some of her books were published by St Martin's Press, others by Signet and so forth. <br />The story and the premise were intriguing enough to provoke a debate on a Regency readers group in which I participate. One of the major questions asked (of a reader of Regency romances) is: &quot;What constitutes a lady's honor? Should it be judged on the same grounds as a man's? Or does her honor constitute solely of her reputation, which is based in turn of her birth, her connections, her dowry, her marital status, and of course, her chastity?&quot; Another question to ask while you are reading this book is &quot;What is worth sacrificing, and for what?&quot; The hero and heroine of this novel (for it is indeed a novel) answer these questions differently, as do people around them. I had a different take from another reader as well, in that I agreed with neither the hero nor the heroine.<br />The synopsis: Lord Chalmsforth (not Lord Peter Chalmsforth, as in the book) is considering marriage at the start of the novel, because his middle brother has died unmarried and his younger and only surviving brother is too young and also too immature. To this end, Peter Chalmsforth visits his mother (a lady of impeccable tastes), and discusses his plans with her. At the end, he sets out to waylay his brother to prevent an unsuitable marriage to the conniving daughter of a country clergyman. He arrives in the country, only to discover that the lady in question is actually quite respectable, but that his brother's attentions have shifted to the sister of his friend - who is also desired (or found attractive, at any rate) by Chalmsforth himself. Chalmsforth makes a huge blunder (or a couple of blunders) that will henceforth color the heroine Fiona Guthrie's impressions of him and his expectations, and determine their futures.<br />Fiona Guthrie is a young lady of great determination, remarkably attractive but sadly penniless thanks to the financial imprudence of her father, a man of ancient lineage who did not survive his late wife for long. She is nevertheless determined to hold her parents's marriage (for love) as her example, and she will not marry without love. Fiona is also passionately attached to her childhood and family home, a historic house connected allegedly to Mary, Queen of the Scots (who Fiona views as superior to Elizabeth I). She is co-owner of this home with her scapegrace gamester brother, Niall. Unfortunately, Niall does not take this fact and others into consideration when he plays cards with a notorious rake, loses the sum of seven thousand pounds, and then compounds with a moneylender, using the estate as collateral.<br />To save her brother from debtor's prison and worse (he has misrepresented the estate as larger than it is, and has failed to mention that he is only part-owner), Fiona Guthrie seeks out her mother's sister, a rather vulgar lady despite her good birth. This lady and her husband will not lend the money without any collateral. Fiona refuses to either give them the abbey (which she feels is worth more than the sum of her brother's losses) or to sell the abbey outright. She departs their house in high dudgeon, but remembers an interesting conversation with Lord Chalmsforth who had admired her greatly.<br />The rest of the story contains spoilers, so I will discuss it in a separate review. Fiona is a remarkable heroine, whatever you might think of her actions or her feelings about love and marriage (not to mention her house and her family pride). She ends up not married to a highly eligible suitor, but running a school or academy for girls with her friend (the clergyman's daughter, thrown over by Chalmsforth's brother). And yes, there is a Happily Ever After ending, with Chalmsforth and Fiona married to each other, and the friend finding her ownsuitable and loving husband.<br />The focus of this story is the complicated relationship of Fiona (Guthrie) and Peter (Chalmsforth), made even more complicated by certain facts. Fiona has a sense of her honor that is quite unlike that of the usual Regency lady (or lord). For her, honor in a woman is on par with honor for a gentleman. Keeping your word is important. Marriage to someone you do not love is prostitution - permanent prostitution. These are somewhat advanced but not unusual ideas. (She has read Wollstonecraft, I believe). The question is - Does the hero agree with her? Will Fiona change her mind, and if so, when and why? And how would you interpret the actions and motivations of hero and heroine.<br />There is an icky (but not too icky) villain who gets something of a comeuppance - although life being what it is, he manages to create a problem for the hero. His motivations are generally quite credible, although I had little understanding of why he chose to fleece young gentlemen in the first place. [But we can guess why - losing could be very expensive]. <br />Most of the secondary characters are beautifully done, including an attractive but not cutesy young girl. The mores and manners of the period are generally well-adhered to in this book. And apart from the small error with the hero's title and style, there are no major bloopers in the author's understanding of how British aristocratic society worked. The book is beautifully written, imaginative, and well-constructed. That I disagree with the heroine's actions is neither here nor there.<br />Do yourself a favor, and pick up this book or almost any other by this author. <br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2002-02-04
US	50375720	R3393T5DL1KSJT	0451121309	702290723	Come Be My Love	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A literary heroine...	I cannot say that I liked this Diana Brown as much I liked a previous book DEBT OF HONOR, or even THE EMERALD NECKLACE (with its hard-to-like heroine).  The problem was not with Ms Brown's writing or her descriptions, but rather the turn taken in the book between the first and second half.  How to write a spoiler-free review?  Difficult, given what happens.<br />The story is about a young woman, Alexandra, who is in love with the neighbor's son Darius Wentworth, future Lord Bladen.  She has a number of problems.  Firstly, her family (especially her autocratic father) are staunch Tories;  the Wentworths are and always have been Whigs.  Secondly, she has virtually no dowry - her father economizes hugely on his daughters, and even on his younger sons.  Without a good dowry, she cannot marry well.  Thirdly, she is much too young for Darius, who treats her as a younger sister.  <br />Alexandra's childhood infatuation for Darius grows into a teenage adoration, which persists through his marriage to an earl's  daughter (who dies in childbirth).  She owes her education and her ability to write well to the Wentworths - Darius's father Lord Bladen has allowed her the run of his library and recommended books for her to read.  She is serious by nature, so much so that she considers Maria Edgeworth frivolous.  Unfortunately for Alexandra, things change.  First, her mentor Lord Bladen dies, followed shortly by his widow Lady Bladen.  Alexandra cannot, with propriety, visit the house of a widower (Darius, the new Lord Bladen).  But she spends time with his delightful son who is complelely ignored by Darius.  Why?  <br />Alexandra believes it is because little Crumpet (the name she gives John Frederick Wentworth, the baby) cost his mother her life.  But then there is a cousin who pays attention to Crumpet (while ignoring and belittling all other children), there is the strange dislike between Darius and his cousin.<br />Darius is not perfectly admirable.  He has an affair with a widow, and brings her to stay in his house.  Alexandra, frustrated with jealousy, realizes that Darius still does not love her.  She however manages to turn away many eligible marriages, and then finally runs away to London to lead her own life, escaping a marriage arranged for her.<br />I have left some crucial events in the middle out, because they are major spoilers.  Suffice it to say, that Alexandra's writing skills are now honed, and they pay off handsomeley.  Yet, they also eventually cost Alexandra her reputation.  I am omitting information on the entire second half, apart from the reference to Alexandra's writing career, because there are so many secrets revealed by the end.<br />The reason that I could not quite like this book, is because the heroine makes a remarkably stupid mistake in the middle.  When offered the chance of a marriage (even though not of love) to the man she loves, she turns it down by lying about something.  At this point, it is not that she is innocent.  She is immature in many respects, not having considered possible consequences.  And the consequences could have been very dire for her indeed.<BR>Her reason (as stated to the hero at the end) did not move me in particular, especially since she had made further stupid decisions to prove her independence.<br />Darius is not perfect.  That is the beauty of the story.  He is having an affair with a widow; he is indifferent to his baby son; he is not fully cognizant of how far Alexandra's reputation could be ruined by the time they spent together.  <br />Alexandra is not perfect either.  She is a strong-willed young woman, determined not to marry without love (even the man she loves).  She is also determined to pursue her own career.  She does not however think ahead, and she often makes TSTL (too-stupid-to-live), or at the very least, unreasonable decisions.  She is convinced that by adopting a nom-de-plume she will be able to live the life of a free-thinker.  However, she has not learned fully from the lives of Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin and Mary Godwin Shelly - in that she understands the principles, but not the consequences such freedom of expression can have on her personally.  She is also too willing to believe a certain character, despite any reason to trust him - simply because he was kind to poor little Crumpet.<br />I felt so frustrated with this book.  Alexandra's life as an independent writer in London did not ring true, given what I know (admittedly not much) about the position of women writers in the Regency or much later.  I admired her willingness (upto a point) to carry through on a word, even in a despicable bargain.  {Despicable, that is, for her future].  But on the other hand, I felt her attitude towards her second match totally unrealistic.  Surely, she realized how dependent she would make herself as a married woman, given all her prating on the point earlier.  That, along with her blind belief in the man she agreed to marry, was what turned me off this book.<br />One last comment.  The title for this book (unlike that for DEBT OF HONOR) did not describe the plot very well, nor the issues and motives driving the heroine to act as she did.<br />Rating = 3.9 (rounded to 4)<BR>Summary = compelling first part, compelling in parts after that.  Character of heroine credible internally, but not consistent with the time-period.  Heroine makes some ill-judged decisions.	2002-02-04
US	50375720	R2AM9A8BL0ZN17	0451142160	754307944	Debt of Honor	Books	5	9	10	N	N	This is very nearly perfect...	and the kind of Regency that I wish were still published today. I discovered the works of Diana Brown recently, and I strongly recommend her works (at least in traditional Regency). Some of her books were published by St Martin's Press, others by Signet and so forth.  <br />The story and the premise were intriguing enough to provoke a debate on a Regency readers group in which I participate.  One of the major questions asked (of a reader of Regency romances) is:  &quot;What constitutes a lady's honor?  Should it be judged on the same grounds as a man's?  Or does her honor constitute solely of her reputation, which is based in turn of her birth, her connections, her dowry, her marital status, and of course, her chastity?&quot;  Another question to ask while you are reading this book is &quot;What is worth sacrificing, and for what?&quot;  The hero and heroine of this novel (for it is indeed a novel) answer these questions differently, as do people around them.  I had a different take from another reader as well, in that I agreed with neither the hero nor the heroine.<br />The synopsis:  Lord Chalmsforth (not Lord Peter Chalmsforth, as in the book) is considering marriage at the start of the novel, because his middle brother has died unmarried and his younger and only surviving brother is too young and also too immature.  To this end, Peter Chalmsforth visits his mother (a lady of impeccable tastes), and discusses his plans with her.  At the end, he sets out to waylay his brother to prevent an unsuitable marriage to the conniving daughter of a country clergyman.  He arrives in the country, only to discover that the lady in question is actually quite respectable, but that his brother's attentions have shifted to the sister of his friend - who is also desired (or found attractive, at any rate) by Chalmsforth himself.  Chalmsforth makes a huge blunder (or a couple of blunders) that will henceforth color the heroine Fiona Guthrie's impressions of him and his expectations,and determine their futures.<br />Fiona Guthrie is a young lady of great determination, remarkably attractive but sadly penniless thanks to the financial imprudence of her father, a man of ancient lineage who did not survive his late wife for long.  She is nevertheless determined to hold her parents's marriage (for love) as her example, and she will not marry without love.  Fiona is also passionately attached to her childhood and family home, a historic house connected allegedly to Mary, Queen of the Scots (who Fiona views as superior to Elizabeth I).  She is co-owner of this home with her scapegrace gamester brother, Niall.  Unfortunately, Niall does not take this fact and others into consideration when he plays cards with a notorious rake, loses the sum of seven thousand pounds, and then compounds with a moneylender, using the estate as collateral.<br />To save her brother from debtor's prison and worse (he has misrepresented the estate as larger than it is, and has failed to mention that he is only part-owner), Fiona Guthrie seeks out her mother's sister, a rather vulgar lady despite her good birth.  This lady and her husband will not lend the money without any collateral. Fiona refuses to either give them the abbey (which she feels is worth more than the sum of her brother's losses) or to sell the abbey outright.  She departs their house in high dudgeon, but remembers an interesting conversation with Lord Chalmsforth who had admired her greatly.<br />The rest of the story contains spoilers, so I will discuss it in a separate review.  Fiona is a remarkable heroine, whatever you might think of her actions or her feelings about love and marriage (not to mention her house and her family pride).  She ends up not married to a highly eligible suitor, but running a school or academy for girls with her friend (the clergyman's daughter, thrown over by Chalmsforth's brother).  And yes, there is a Happily Ever After ending, with Chalmsforth and Fiona married to each other,and the friend finding her own suitable and loving husband.<br />The focus of this story is the complicated relationship of Fiona (Guthrie) and Peter (Chalmsforth), made even more complicated by certain facts.  Fiona has a sense of her honor that is quite unlike that of the usual Regency lady (or lord).  For her, honor in a woman is on par with honor for a gentleman.  Keeping your word is important.  Marriage to someone you do not love is prostitution - permanent prostitution.  These are somewhat advanced but not unusual ideas.  (She has read Wollstonecraft, I believe).  The question is - Does the hero agree with her?  Will Fiona change her mind, and if so, when and why?  And how would you interpret the actions and motivations of hero and heroine.<br />There is an icky (but not too icky) villain who gets something of a comeuppance - although life being what it is, he manages to create a problem for the hero.  His motivations are generally quite credible, although I had little understanding of why he chose to fleece young gentlemen in the first place.  [But we can guess why - losing could be very expensive].  <br />Most of the secondary characters are beautifully done, including an attractive but not cutesy young girl.  The mores and manners of the period are generally well-adhered to in this book.  And apart from the small error with the hero's title and style, there are no major bloopers in the author's understanding of how British aristocratic society worked.  The book is beautifully written, imaginative, and well-constructed.  That I disagree with the heroine's actions is neither here nor there.<br />Do yourself a favor, and pick up this book or almost any other by this author.  <br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2002-01-30
US	50375720	R3V9U61YRNONSZ	0451178564	42964202	Miss Billings Treads the Boards (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Not Carla Kelly's best...	I have mixed feelings about any Carla Kelly book that I do not quite like.  While the heroine Miss Katherine Billings and her predicament are delightfully and sympathetically portrayed, and the acting troupe and family that Miss Billings falls in with are believable and all-too-human secondary characters, the hero a Marquess is a real disappointment. <br />Warning - spoilers ahead.<br />The problem I have with this book is that the hero acts selfishly throughout the book, and justifies his actions late into the story by claiming that he wants to test her mettle before marrying her.  At that point, I could have slapped him cheerfully, and wished that Katherine Billings had up-ended him (again) for another suitor.  Alas, unlike in LIBBY'S LONDON MERCHANT there was no other suitor in the offing, not for Miss Billings anyway.<br />The book starts out with a bored and overweight Marquess escaping town to avoid criticism by his sister and others (including his valet who irritates him, and me as the reader).  Ah yes, the Marquess also has his sister's son as the heir [note to author:  Dear Miss Kelly, this rather spoils your plot, even worse than in MISS MILTON SPEAKS HER MIND].  Since his journey up North and the exact route he takes is supposedly a secret, it is a shock to him (and to me) when he is attacked by pretend-highwaymen who are in reality his disinherited sister's son (aforesaid nephew who is heir to the Marquessate and the fortune) and his dismissed valet.  Now you would think that the reasons for this attack are quite reasonable, wouldn't you?  But no, the nephew and the valet want the Marquess to be grateful to them and by staging a mock-attack, they hope to win back his favor. Duh!  And they leave said Marquess bleeding to death (or nearly so) in a country lane, while they get hopelessly lost looking for a doctor.<br />The Marquess then staggers into a barn, where it turns out that the lady he is looking for, Miss Katherine Billings has been pressed into service with an acting troupe.  [To cut a long story short, she got off at the wrong stop and mistook the waiting carriage for that of her lecherous would-be employer;  the actor waiting at that stop mistook her for an actress. She prefers to remain with the troupe temporarily rather than go to her employers, since she has been warned on the stagecoach trip that the husband is a notorious lecher.  Miss Billings, you see, is penniless and homeless].  I won't tell you why the Marquess would be looking for Miss Billings, but that is clear from the first chapter.<br />Ah well.  The Marquess's identity is revealed to the troupe, although he will go by the name of Hal Hampton.  He pretends to be in fear of his life, from his villainous nephew and ex-valet; they undertake to care for him and to restore him to health, and carry him off up North.  In the meantime, a hue-and-cry has been raised for the missing Marquess.  The Marquess, now Hal Hampton, is pretending to be the husband of Miss Billings (now temporarily Miss Hampton) and having a fine time getting into shape with the troupe.  Enter a Bow Street Runner, who is not deceived by the act, and whose purposes are uncertain to the troupe.  Has he been employed by the Marquess's solicitors and the estate trustees?  Or has he been employed by the Marquess's would-be killers?  They take no chances and protect Hal Hampton from discovery, even when offered a magnificent reward.<br />The theatrical scenes are well-done, showing the progress of a small-time troupe with genuine talent through the North and their disastrous ending in town.  Until they are saved by their own hard work, coupled with Miss Billings's own decision to help out. [How?  Read the book].  Everything, or almost everything, ends happily for the actors, with the arrival of two great Regency names - Kemble and Kean.  <br />But I digress from the love story, such as it is, between Hal Hampton (aka Henry Tewkesbury-Hampton, Marquess of Everdon) and his mock-wife Miss Katherine Billings.  Is it really love when the hero acts selfishly almost through the entire novel?  It is true that he helps out nobly with the troupe in staging their brilliant production, but he does so because it will be \\"fun\\" (and incidentally, help him get into shape).  Not because he really wants to help out.  His argument at the end of the book is that he wanted to see the troupe and Miss Billings win their way out of disaster through their own efforts.  Not bad - except that his own example has hardly been one to inspire anyone.<br />My summary at the end of the book was that this story had a great heroine, a memorable set of secondary characters (with two romances among troup members thrown in) - and an unlikeable hero with some appalling friends and relatives.  Even the valet comes across as rather more decent.  The plot lines involving the Marquess's disappearance from society and his attackers make little or no sense.  It might make more sense to someone less critical than me.<br />Rating = 3.7 [upgraded to a 4]<BR>P.S.  This is so far the lowest rating I have assigned to any Kelly book.	2002-01-28
US	50375720	R31QBLU37NXQGY	0708922759	879973674	The Wilderness Walk (U) (Ulverscroft Large Print Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Rates 4 1/2 stars for mystery;  less developed in romance	This is an intriguing book, which worked magnificently as a Georgian murder mystery.  I cannot say too much about this book without creating a lot of spoilers.  But the book does not begin conventionally.  The heroine is, we think, the wife of a well-to-do London solicitor, the daughter of a ruined City banker. She dreads returning to her summer home of her childhood, for fear of meeting a man who jilted her after hearing that she had lost her dowry.  But the heroine is not this lady, but her younger unmarried and dowryless sister.  And the hero is - well, slightly unusual.  <br />You will certainly be led up the garden path, or the wilderness walk (a theme in the mystery).  The only straight-forward people in this book are the young Marquess (whose intentions are transparent if naive), the brother-in-law of the heroine, and a few other people.  Everyone in this novel has secrets to keep, some for better reasons than others.  And at least one person must change considerably in this novel to win the approval of others.  <br />The problem I had was that the book was really short.  It ended before all the characters had been fully fleshed out, and before I had time to believe in the essential decency of the hero or the romance between the hero and heroine.  While the motivations for keeping secrets made perfect sense, the whole plot seemed a little rushed (as far as the romance went).  <br />Read this book as a mystery with a romance thrown in, not as a romance.  As a romance, I must rate it 3.5 (with reluctance), but as a mystery, I would have to rate it far higher (about 4.7).  The average rating is about 4 stars.	2002-01-24
US	50375720	R2935UCBPL892O	0843910941	207530428	Penelope Devereux	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A retake or preview of THE FAVORITE SISTER	I am still trying to figure out how this book is related to THE FAVORITE SISTER (told more from the perspective of Penelope Devereux's brother the Earl of Essex, and her lover, eventually her second husband). Penelope Devereux must have been an extraordinary woman (like her sister-in-law Frances Walsingham, widow of Sir Philip Sidney and of the Earl of Essex).  She betrothed herself very young to a penniless younger son (and a Catholic to boot) but agreed to marry the very rich Robert Rich, grandson of the man who sent Thomas More to his death.  [This Robert Rich, the younger, later became Earl of Warwick, a title seized by the Tudors from their Nevill and Plantagenet relatives].  Lord Rich was clearly not a pleasant man, although the author shows some sympathy for him (he is at least a good father - mostly).  Penelope then fell in love with Philip Sidney who went on to fame by composing love poems in honor of Lady Rich and dying gloriously in battle.  The affair was not consummated, but Penelope did commit adultery with her second lover, Charles Blunt, Lord Mountjoy (who believed himself to be her legitimate husband).   This second affair had a number of problems.  For one, the children born by her to her lover were illegitimate, although born during their mother's marriage to Rich - they could not inherit either the Warwick earldom (now held by a different family) nor their father's title. For another, Penelope Rich refused to countenance an annulment of her first marriage because she would bastardize her children by that marriage.  [It is also doubtful that she would have just cause under the post-Reformation marriage laws;  the pre-Reformation and pre-Trent laws would have permitted an annulment if either party had promised to marry a third party.  After the 1533 establishment of the Church of England, only a prior marriage - including consummation - would have resulted in an annulment].  But I digress...<br />Penelope Rich does not come all that well out of thestory.  She is clearly a fascinating woman, one able to win one of the richest noblemen in the land, and the daughter of Lettice Knollys (a relative of Elizabeth II) and stepdaughter of Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester. She is the love interest of Sir Philip Sidney (before his happy marriage to Frances) and the inspiration for some of the greatest love poetry in English.  But despite all this, she comes across as curiously selfish, not terribly concerned with the effects of her adultery on her children by Rich, and unable to appreciate her good luck (relatively speaking).  She constantly hankers after the fact that she might have been wife of both her lovers - Sidney and then Mountjoy.  At the end, like her thrice-married (and equally adulterous) mother Lettice, she gets off lightly.  <br />This book can be read well in conjunction with biographies of Essex, Leicester, Sidney, and of Elizabeth I herself.  As a romance, it is interesting but it falls a bit short (for the reasons well-articulated by Elizabeth I and by Lord Rich in the book).  A true-to-life story of adultery, fascinating as romantic historical fiction, but not an entirely satisfactory romance.<br />Rating = 4.2	2002-01-24
US	50375720	R105QNVEQYL97D	0451162676	58603267	Carousel of Hearts (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	50	50	N	N	One of Putney's best Regencies...	This, along with THE DIABOLICAL BARON (reprinted), is one of the rare Regencies that Mary Jo Putney has not expanded and rewritten.  It is somewhat hard-to-find.  Fortunately, most of her backlist is regularly reissued for new fans.  However, I am not sure that this book has been reissued at all.  It is however not as highly-priced as the HTF Baloghs, Kellys, or Chases.<br />The story is one of those romances in which you are completely unsure as to which hero will end up with the heroine.  If you like such a plot, let me also recommend Edith Layton's THE DUKE'S WAGER (available in a reprinted duo).  The diference in CAROUSEL OF HEARTS is that Putney has created two love stories (two heroes, two heroines) and has made all the characters (well nearly all of them) thoroughly likeable. That is indeed a rarity.<br />The story begins with an impetuous young baroness (the daughter of an earl, but she has inherited an ancient barony as her father's only child - kudos to MJP for getting this right) rejecting the idea of a companion.  However, she realizes that her aunt has brought along a young widowed relation who has overheard their argument.  Partly out of guilt, and partly out of pity for this poor relation, the baroness (Lady Antonia) agrees to accept the widowed Judith as a companion, saying that she can always do with an extra friend.  Judith has not had a very happy life as a penniless young woman always dependent on richer relatives, and she married a clergyman who concealed his fatal illness from her (wanting a nurse for his last years).  But, as it turns out, Antonia (her employer, the baroness) has not had that glorious a childhood either, even though she denies this to herself through the novel.  Judith and Antonia get along well together, and Judith acquires a handsome new wardrobe.<br />Enter the hero, or rather one of the heroes.  He is a distant cousin of Antonia, brought up with her on a remote family estate.  Adam is illegitimate, the son of a cousin of Antonia's father.  His father had revolutionary ideas, including a rejection of marriage.  However, he persuaded a minister's daughter to run off with him, and refused to marry her when she was pregnant.  When his father died, his mother was obliged to work as a seamstress to make ends meet - and on her death, Adam became a chimney sweep's climbing boy, until he was rescued by the Earl.  There is much more to the story of course.<br />Adam brings along a friend of his, a titled young gentleman whom he met in India.  This friend Simon is so handsome and so well-dressed that both Antonia and Judith fall for him.  Antonia becomes engaged to Simon, while Adam offers marriage to Judith.  Adam, however, has always loved Antonia since he was a young boy brought in by the Earl to Antonia's birthday party.  It was this love that motivated him to make a fortune in India.  And Adam has helped Simon out of a difficult situation (being tricked by the family solicitor) and advised him as to how to recoup his fortune.<br />The story takes some unexpected turns. Accidents happen (without external villains), someone develops amnesia, and betrothals are broken, reformed, and broken again.<br />This ends the \\"low spoiler\\" part of the review.  If you want more, continue on.<BR>What I enjoyed about this book was not only Putney's attention to titles and the like, but the fact that the story takes place almost entirely in the country.  There are virtually no references to Almack.  The issues dividing the heroes and heroines are real and believable issues - for example, the fact that Adam is illegitimate (although the fact that he is in trade is ignored), the fact that Antonia is so much richer than Simon, and the fact that women can be in love with more than one man at the same time.  There were no easy solutions here, despite the accident (when one of the heroes visits an inventor) and the subsequent amnesia developed by that hero.  Judith's dilemna in turn is credible - she must balanceloyalty to her employer and benefactor with the fact that she is in love with someone. <br />I have to admit that I thought certain themes could have been elaborated upon (notably the fact that certain matches seemed inevitable given the shared interests of certain protagonists).  Also, I was troubled by a couple of omissions<BR>1) that Adam disappeared suddenly when Antonia was about 15.  I thought that there was more to the story than that - perhaps he had been told to take himself off by Antonia's parents.  Where did he get his passage money to India, for that matter?<BR>2) that Adam made a fortune so quickly, despite an impeccable reputation.  In my readings of British history in India, the only persons who made large fortunes quickly were company clerks who made private fortunes from trading on the side, or soldiers of fortune who were successful in some action, and of course administrators at the highest levels (but not in the Regency period - more in the period 1750-1780).  Adam was too young to have amassed such a great fortune with integrity.  I found this somewhat off-putting.<BR>3) that relatively little is made of Judith's unhappy financial position and her disastrous first marriage.  It is a plot theme (in that Adam is moved to propose marriage to her because of her vulnerability), but it is not fully carried out.<br />Despite these quibbles (and Antonia's mistake in assessing her precedence - as a baroness, she automatically lost her rank and precedence as an earl's daughter, whether she inherited the barony or married a baron),  this book was a pleasure to read, and finished in one evening.  Strongly recommended.<br />Rating = 4.8	2002-01-23
US	50375720	R3P3VVPSXOP6V	0195610741	229965972	A Various Universe: A Study of the Journals and Memoirs of British Men and Women in the Indian Subcontinent 1765-1856	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good source for some generalized information	This book by K.K. Dyson (a British scholar hailing from India, I understand) is an analysis of the attitudes, opinions and lifestyles of British men and women in India from the period of Clive's rule in India to just before the Mutiny.  Why start at 1765?  I am not really sure, except that this might have been the starting point of one of the diarists and memoirists.<br />The book draws upon some famous British figures - Reginald Heber, Bishop of Calcutta and a minor poet;  Eliza Fay, a contemporary of Warren Hastings; and Richard Burton, the travellor, author, and so forth.  There are diaries and memoirs kept by military men, by administrators, by their wives, and by clergymen.  There is considerably more material available post-1818, than for the period before then. <br />This review will confine itself to a general description.  The book is not divided into time periods (as far as I could tell) but by the diarists and memoirists and the time they spent in India.  Thus Fay comes early in the book, Heber in the middle, and Burton towards the end.  Dyson does try to break up each section by analyzing not just the authors' impressions of India (the sights, the festivals, the people) but also their attitudes towards Indians and the growing Eurasian community.  Some of this comes across more clearly than others, because of the nature of the material available.<br />The semi-chronological nature of the book allows the casual reader to understand how British views of India changed across time.  However, this same method of analysis means that the views of different memoirists across time cannot be contrasted on a particular subject.  For example, how did Eliza Fay's attitudes towards the status of native (Indian) women compare to the attitudes of male memoirists in the same period, or in a different period?  That is not really addressed in this book, although Dyson does provide biographical sketches of the principal memoirists selected with some reference to their background, their education, and their expectations of India. [The attitudes of young society ladies visiting a relative in India was very different from the attitudes of a missionary's wife].  <br />One problem I had with this book was a failure to provide an appendix listing all the major diarists and memoirists whose materials were used, together with biographical sketches.  Given that Dyson provided two other appendices (of extracts from memoirs, letters and diaries), I might be asking too much.  But this would have helped understand why some diarists were chosen and others omitted, and which diarists or memoirists made an impact on the reader back in England via publication.	2002-01-23
US	50375720	R1LKJZOXLA33JX	0449502791	284451494	Perola	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A rompish Regency, amusing but not very credible	This book is the first by Phyllis Ann Karr, that I have read.  The cover (inspired by Renaissance painting, perhaps) is intriguing, but has relatively little to do with the story, apart from the beginning.<br />The story itself has its moments but is barely credible.  Perola, the heroine, wants to revenge herself on a handsome peer for having seduced her older sister.  This sister died before Perola was born, so Perola never knew her.  Perola discovered the existence of the sister, and an illegitimate nephew raised by a cottager's widow, only when her father (a merchant) had died.  Her nephew has had some education, and has learned to resent his father who abandoned his mother and never recognized him. So far, not bad.<br />The problem is what comes next.  It is not just that the peer - the hero - never knew of the existence of his son, and that he had tried to marry Perola's sister when he came of age (their elopement being intercepted by both fathers).  It is that Perola and her nephew's foster-mother (the cottager's wife) have the manners and education to be able to mix with gentry and the nobility.  Well, I can believe that the daughter of a wealthy merchant might have the proper manners and the right accent, but that a cottager's wife could pass for a gentlewoman boggles my mind.  So does the method by which Perola obtains her introduction to the hero - she pretends to be the daughter of a corporal whose life had been saved by a retired army officer who just happened to be the neighbor of the hero.  A corporal, for your information, is counted as an enlisted man - one of the rank-and-file who usually came from the lower classes.  Even allowing for the Major's delight in learning of this supposed rescue (that he cannot remember) it is hard to imagine that he would accept the daughter of an enlisted man as a gentlewoman and have her move amidst gentry.<br />And of course, Perola manages to attract the hero's attention in an unique way, and pretends not to know her own nephew (when he catches the eye of the hero's ward and prospective fiancee).  <br />The nephew is quite something too.  He fineagles his way into a romance with the ward, who proposes him as a secretary to her guardian based simply on the fact that he can read and write. And the nephew then barges his way into the hero's house (something of a crime, given that he assaults the footman when refused entry), and somehow convinces the peer to give him a job - as a librarian - when his qualifications are virtually non-existent.<br />Of course, Perola's &quot;secret&quot; conversations with her nephew are eventually noticed, and her duplicity comes to light.  It turns out that the hero was guilty of no villainy, and that he did not know his old love (Perola's late sister) had given birth to a child.  The hero forgives Perola quite easily, while her nephew has a slightly more difficult time with his love, the offended ward (who considers marrying one of two peers visiting the family). <br />This story had some potential, and a very decent hero.   The romance of the younger couple was less credible, as was the hero's reaction to their romance (what were the younger couple planning to live upon?).  The heroine got off very lightly given her duplicity, her sole alarm coming when her nephew disappears into a seedy part of London. <br />My recommendation?  This is a light read, not one to read if you want any degree of credibility.  It does touch upon a serious issue - the position of the illegitimate children of the aristocracy and gentry - but Arthur wins fortune and bride all too easily.  This is not a good read if you want authenticity in manners and customs (not to mention social stratification), or if you want really deep thinking from your protagonists.  There is little or no comedy (unless you count the rival peers vying for the ward's hand and attentions).<br />Rating = 1.8	2002-01-23
US	50375720	RVAF6W8ULBBDF	0380772817	37241689	Deirdre and Don Juan (A Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A very good traditional Regency but flawed...	Jo Beverley now writes historicals, rather than the traditional Regencies published by Avon.  All her traditionals and most of her earlier work is very hard-to-find, and some have amazingly high prices on the secondhand-book (used book) market.  Of all these books, I can commend this one DEIRDRE AND DON JUAN, which I have read, and EMILY AND THE DARK ANGEL (which I have not read, but plan to read).  Both are slightly unusual takes on the typical Regency plot.  The second is rated more highly, but I don't think that the first is *that* far behind.  No, it does not rank with the highest, but I will consider this book a keeper.<br />The story is not of a beauty - Lady Deirdre Stowe is *not* a beauty, although she looks better when she dresses to her own taste rather than that of her mother.  She is intelligent, but she also has a rather low opinion of herself, and is willing to settle for a rather inferior man (in terms of affection, rather than his rank).  To begin with the beginning however.<br />The story begins with Mark Juan Carlos Renfrew, Earl of Everdon (aka Don Juan) learning that his wife has finally died abroad.  She had left him very early into their marriage, and he had not bothered to divorce her.  And as we learn, he is plagued with guilt about his short marriage, although it has enabled him to make merry as a &quot;married&quot; man without fear of the matchmakers.  However, since his younger brother has died, it is incumbent on him to marry again, a suitable and plain wife who will be content in the country, and will give him heirs.  His mother suggests Lady Deirdre Stowe who shares her passion for embroidery.  And off Lord Everdon goes to meet the prospective bride, and to court her.<br />Lady Deirdre is not pleased.  She has been a wallflower all the Season, and she is about to go back home unmarried.  And she wants to be unmarried.  Why?  Because she is in love with a commoner, a mathematician.  Her idea of bliss is life in a cosy cottage, embroidering and watching her future husband work on his problems.  Never mind that he ignores her almost completely all day.  And she will have one little baby to love and care for, or so she hopes.<br />The Earl of Everdon is stunned to hear that Lady Deirdre prefers a mathematician with no fortune (about 100 pounds a year) to him, a belted earl.  He cannot however withdraw from the marriage, having obtained the permission of Lady Deirdre's parents.  And Lady Deirdre has promised her mother that she will not turn down any reasonable offer.  And so, the engagement continues, but Lord Everdon promises to behave unreasonably (create some scandal) and thus convince Lady Deirdre's mother that he is not a suitable husband.<br />Of course, Lord Everdon does nothing of the kind.  He tries to persuade Lady Deirdre that kissing is fun.  And that her mathematician is really a dull sort, although he is more subtle about that.  The mathematician is persuaded to go with Lady Deirdre and her mother back to Everdon Park, where we learn many unexpected secrets about Lord Everdon, his first marriage, and his financial condition.<br />That is the spoiler-free review. Now a critique, to explain why I cannot assign this a higher grade.  I loved this book, and read it in one afternoon.  And I grew to like both Lady Deirdre and Lord Everdon by the end.  I also appreciated the fact that the author had created a half-Spanish half-British earl, and that there was an &quot;other man&quot; rather than an &quot;other woman&quot;.  Furthermore, this other man is a brilliant mathematician. <br />Unfortunately, the book has some serious problems.  Firstly, given the Earl's situation with his first wife, it is inconceivable that he would have avoided divorcing her because he was afraid of a scandal.  What did he think she was creating?  Also, the idea that he would avoid a divorce for fear of hurting his wife's parents made little sense, given the vituperative feelings of his mother-in-law (who appears briefly and bizarrely towards the end).  A divorce would have been relatively easy for him;  it is possible that he could not have divorced her for financial reasons, but she had certainly given him enough cause under the legal system of the time.  Also, given that he had no direct heirs, the matter of an heir should have been of greater import to him.<br />Secondly, the fact that he escaped the matchmakers as a &quot;married&quot; man is a premise or plot device that really annoys me.  (It reminds me of a terrible book where a duke plans to marry a dying woman precisely to avoid the matchmakers for a little while).  <br />The fact that he wants a plain well-bred wife willing to breed and remain in the country, and that he seeks his mother's advice, also does not sit well with me.  I compared this mentally to Heyer's SYLVESTER, but found that the premise there was far different.  The hero there was willing to consider a lady mentioned by his mother, but did not plan to marry her immediately - until she had caught his interest.<br />Lady Deirdre herself at the outset (and for most of the book) irritated me.  If her mathematician had indeed been a worthy man (albeit an absent-minded genius), that would have one thing.  She was however in love with a deeply selfish man, who was totally unconcerned with her and her needs and wishes.  And she persuaded herself somehow that she was in love.  How did she come to have such a poor opinion of herself (well-articulated by her erstwhile lover toward the end)?  She was no beauty to be sure, but her parents appeared decent people.  There was no explanation of why Deirdre would pick a lowly mathematician, would prefer life in the country (in a small cottage!), or would have such a low opinion of herself.  <br />I thought that the best part of the book was the last third (apart from the bizarre mother-in-law).  Here, we learn the truth about the Earl's finances, and about his first marriage (and the irrational sentiments of his firstwife).  I think that much more could have been made of these.  I appreciated the fact that the hero was not overwhelmingly wealthy, and that his father had frittered the family wealth away on improvements to the grounds but had remained a loving father and husband.  [Too many fictional fathers spent their money on gambling at cards or dice, at racing, or in the pursuit of fast women.  It is refreshing to meet one who overspends on his estate].<br />At the end, while I was happy for Deirdre and her Don Juan (his middle names, incidentally, did not make a lot of sense), I felt curiously dissatisfied.  I felt that both Deirdre and Everdon were lucky to have found each other;  she could so easily have married Howard (the mathematician) and discovered only after several children what she had let herself in for.  Perhaps, if she had become disillusioned herself, the book would have been stronger.  Unfortunately, she seemed to lack an understanding of human motivation, and to be curiously naive about men right to the end.   As for Everdon, he was lucky to have found Deirdre, although I could not understand why he wanted to persist with the engagement.  [Yes, he realized early on that she was mismatched, and that she would be miserable, but we have little evidence at the outset that he cares that much about other people].<br />This is not a bad read by any standards.  But you might share my sentiments - liking the unusual heroine (and the odd situation the hero and heroine find themselves in) without being happy about how they work their way to a happy ending.  I can say that I have had the same feeling about one other book - Joan Wolf's THE GAMBLE, where I also ended up keeping the book, but remained deeply frustrated with the heroine in particular.<br />Rating = 3.5	2002-01-22
US	50375720	R3S84MFPY6W0JM	0801849845	598530358	Mary Diana Dods, A Gentleman and a Scholar	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting literary and historical mystery...	This is the story of a literary mystery that a professor stumbled across, when editing a collection of the letters of Mary Shelley (author of FRANKENSTEIN, widow of the poet, and daughter of Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin).  Who were David Lyndsay and Walter Sholto Douglas?  Who was Isabella Robinson Douglas?  Why the mysterious references to Lord M?  The author spent time researching the private family papers of the family of a notable Scottish family, the birth and marriage records of Isabella Robinson Douglas's daughter, the wife of a very prominent Victorian man.  And she found - not only a mystery that crosses gender and class lines, but also a mystery that points out how much the information we take for granted from such worthy primary sources as birth and marriage certificates, or entries in the august Dictionary of National Biography, can be false or falsified deliberately.  At one level, this book should appeal to academic sleuths with a love of history and a particular fondness for the period 1815-1850 (roughly, crossing the late Regency and early Victorian period);  at another level, this should appeal to any serious reader of historical fiction who is interested in women's lives, and who wonders how far the truth may or may not deviate from the fictional variants.  <br />A suggestion:  truth is sometimes stranger than fiction, although it is hard for some (mostly male) critics to swallow.  Private scandals and peccadilloes (usually of a sexual nature) have been covered over for decades, even centuries.  Today, an academic researching on a different subject or an amateur genealogist trying to find out more about his or her ancestor/ancestress may stumble across the long-hidden truth.  This book MARY DIANA DODS is not just about an ambitious woman who is fairly ruthless in attempting to better her social standing (and that of her daughter) but the fate of many illegitimate children in the 19th century as well as young widows and unmarried daughters who were dependent on the males in their family for recognition as well as financial support.  And now the spoilers follow -<br />A short summary with spoilers follows (do not read further if you want to solve the mystery along with the author)<br />Mary Shelley meets a couple Mr and Mrs Walter Sholto Douglas abroad, or does she?  It turns out that Walter Sholto Douglas is a woman, and one with an astonishing if unacknowledged paternal pedigree.  And his &quot;wife&quot; Isabella Robinson is apparently not his lesbian lover, but a young woman of moderately good family who has fallen into disgrace (a pre-marital pregnancy).  To avoid shame and to legitimize her child, she and &quot;Walter Sholto Douglas&quot; (whose name gives a clue to her paternal ancestry) pretend to be man and wife; that is, Douglas, or rather Mary Diana Dods, becomes a man, aided by Shelley and her friends.  And then, Isabella Robinson is involved with other men (hardly a surprise), and Douglas/Dods disappears.  Isabella recreates herself as the mother-in-law of a Privy Councillor who is fully aware of his wife's shady family circumstances (born illegitimate, born into a marriage that never existed, to a father who was actually a woman).  Their deceptions are revealed only when an American academic, puzzling over Mary Shelley's correspondents more than a century later, finds out that firstly two of the missing correspondents are the same, and secondly, that they are a woman.  One of her male identities was that of Walter Sholto Douglas.  The book should be read and savoured not for this and other revelations (as to how Dods/Douglas and Robinson pulled off their initial deception, or how Isabella Robinson maneuvered her daughter into a suitable marriage), but for the process by which such discoveries are made - hard work, an eye for detail, a memory for names and dates, and a good dose of serendipidity.  <br />The only reason I don't rate this higher is that I wished that firstly, there had been an appendixlisting the documentary trail followed by Betty Bennett, and that secondly, there had been a listing of the names and characters (with a summary of their future lives) in the story in a second appendix.  Although Bennett discusses the lives of aristocratic bastards in several chapters, and in one chapter in particular where she compares the fate of the widowed Georgiana Carter (nee Dods) and her unmarriageable sister Mary Diana Dods, it would also have been helpful to put this in greater context.  For example, how did their father's treatment of them compare with that of other aristocratic fathers?  How did their lives compare with that of unmarried or widowed young women, penniless and dependent totally on men?  The emphasis in this book was on the process of discovery, and thus these other parts to the story were somewhat neglected in my opinion.  <br />This is still a book that I recommend highly.  Rating: 4.5	2002-01-13
US	50375720	R3ML7R5BRQBVIT	0060130369	469778969	Skinner's Horse	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Historical novel/fiction but amazingly good	This is a short novel around the military career and exploits of the legendary James Skinner (1778-1841) who lived in the last decades of East India Company rule.  As the illegitimate son of a Scottish soldier and his Rajput \\"wife\\" (sometimes called a princess), he was disqualified from a regular army commission.  It was his \\"half-caste\\" (mixed ancestry) status, or as then described \\"country-born\\" status, which prevented Skinner from a full career in the Indian army of the East India Company.  Despite this, lack of financial resources, and many other problems and barriers, he created the regiment known as Skinner's Horse (1st Bengal Lancers) which was distinguished firstly by the loyalty shown by its virtually all-Indian membership to the commander, known as Sikander Sahib, and secondly by the fact that it never lost a battle.  Skinner, or Sikander Sahib, lived like a native, in that he had reputedly 14 wives and several children by all of them.  Today, his descendants are either Moslems or Christians, and none in the male line live in India.  But at least one male-line descendant distinguished himself in the Second World War.<br />The story is however not about Skinner's family circumstances, about which very little is known.  The important tragedies in his life are lightly sketched - his mother's suicide when he was 12 (to protest the fact that her daughters were being raised in English missionary schools, to marry Englishmen), his brother's suicide after a double murder (of one of his Indian wives and her alleged lover), and the many setbacks and humiliations inflicted on Skinner by insensitive Company officials, the British government at home, not to mention the odd soldier who was technically senior to him.<br />I want to strongly recommend this book, after having discussed THE FAR PAVILIONS (set in the late 1870s, with a British officer raised in India as the hero) and Allan Mallison's THE HONOURABLE COMPANY (which focuses on another British officer, coming from England) with some others.  This novel takes a spare but unsentimental look at the life faced by young British officers in India, as well as the fate of their \\"country-born\\" sons.  Before the influx of \\"memsahibs\\" (British women who came out to India with their husbands, or to catch a husband),  \\"country-born\\" daughters could at least hope to marry an Englishman, and thus eventually integrate into pre-Victorian British society when they went to the \\"home country.\\"  Until the 1857 Mutiny changed British colonial policies in India (in favoring and promoting the descendants of such unions to middle ranks in the police, army, and so forth), no such way out was open for \\"country-born\\" sons of British officers.  They could not pursue the careers of their fathers;  they were limited in their commercial ventures as well.  I have been searching for a book that discusses the fate of the \\"country-born\\" or Anglo-Indians, as they are now known in India, during this period 1775-1830.  So far I have not found any books on the subject, but SKINNER'S HORSE remains the best (and only) fictional treatment I have read of \\"Anglo-Indians\\" before the onset of the British Raj.  [The Raj, as understood both in Indian history and in British colonial studies, refers to the British direct rule of India since 1858.  The previous period 1757-1857 is referred to as Company rule].   <br />For persons who want to know about more of Skinner's private life or his attitudes towards women in general (or his female relatives and his many wives), this book will be disappointing.  That is because it is based largely on his own autobiography and on contemporary sources - none of which discuss his private life at length - and because the book sets out to focus on the military career that made his name famous. For a historical novel or a work of historical fiction, it speculates very little.  I have the strong suspicion that the author used the events of Skinner's life and created conversations relating to the military aspects, but deliberately chose to avoid any part of his personal life.  A pity in some ways, because this might have enticed more readers.<br />But read this, in preference to other books that speak about the experience of the British officers in India, or at the very least, read it.  That is, if you want to get a better understanding of the problems underlying both Company rule and the Raj, and to understand how a small group of men managed to conquer and rule lands many times the size of their own country.<br />[....].<br />Very Highly Recommended.	2002-01-13
US	50375720	R2BVJCG53X24UQ	0449219534	196661471	Christmas Belles	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Sweet, but not upto initial promise...	This book is part of a series of books I have read very recently that had a naval theme. I should add that this was read after Carla Kelly's MISS WHITTER MAKES A LIST (strongly recommended, despite minor flaws) and Nicola Cornick's THE LARKSWOOD LEGACY (reviewed some time ago). The story has been nicely described by others, so let me take a moment to review what I liked and did not like about this book.<br />For me, the problem is that this book is too slim, and ends too early and definitely too abruptly. The hero, a young captain who has lost his parents very young and who has been raised at sea by a stern maternal grandfather (an Admiral), inherits the estate of an elderly relation who dies to save the hero's life during enemy action. Partly out of guilt, partly out of a sense of duty, the hero betrothes himself to the eldest daughter of his late cousin - by correspondence (only a few letters). And then, he arrives to be married over a very short break. The heroine is not the eldest sister; she is in love with a very poor curate, and she has resigned herself to marriage. Rather, the real heroine is the young and fanciful Chloe Anne, the third of the four sisters. Chloe is convinced that both the Captain and her sister Emma are making a mistake, in part because Emma loves another man. She is also horrified at the thought of changing anything about her beloved estate.<br />OK - that is just the beginning. Unfortunately, firstly, the Christmas theme does not really follow through. Although there is a holiday celebration, it does not set the Captain reflecting about his life and wondering what is wrong with it. His efforts to free himself from the betrothal are passive to say the least. And Chloe Anne does not stop to reflect on her life either. And *that* is a problem with this romance. Neither hero nor heroine really change that much; although the hero recognizes he is in love with the wrong sister, he makes little effort to change his situation, or for that matter, to question the harshness of Navy discipline in dealing with his deserting steward.<br />It seems to me that the only sisters who do change are Lucy (a fortune hunter and title hunter at the start) and the youngest, Agnes (a prude and bookworm, a la Austen's Mary Bennett). Nor, of course, do the curate and his love Emma change that much, although both work up the courage to proclaim their love - literally at the altar. [A trifle embarrassing, one would think].<br />The epilogue seems a little odd, hastily written perhaps, and tacked on as an afterthought. A longer book might have helped; allowing more time for the captain and Chloe Anne's characters to develop and mature (instead of the ghost escapade) might have helped. There were moments of high comedy, but in general, I did not feel that this book lived upto its initial promise.<br />Rated 3.5to question the harshness of Navy discipline in dealing with his deserting steward. <br />It seems to me that the only sisters who do change are Lucy (a fortune hunter and title hunter at the start) and the youngest, Agnes (a prude and bookworm, a la Austen's Mary Bennett). Nor, of course, do the curate and his love Emma change that much, although both work up the courage to proclaim their love - literally at the altar. [A trifle embarrassing, one would think].<br />The epilogue seems a little odd, hastily written perhaps, and tacked on as an afterthought. A longer book might have helped; allowing more time for the captain and Chloe Anne's characters to develop and mature (instead of the ghost escapade) might have helped. There were moments of high comedy, but in general, I did not feel that this book lived upto its initial promise.<br />Rated 3.5	2002-01-11
US	50375720	R3AONXTBIOL50B	0821771000	31860555	A Devilish Husband (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	I would agree with the reviewer below..	except that I would also give this book a 1 star (the lowest rating).  The villain(s) are so stock/stereotypical that I had to force myself to finish.  Jared's patience with the evil stepsister and her father seemed completely out of place, as did the heroine's patience with them.  Also, the heroine's relationship to her stepfather was completely unclear, as was the fact of how she ended up under his guardianship.  If you can puzzle out her family relationships to the evil Beatrice and her father, you are either wiser than I am, or a far more patient reader.  I cannot recommend this book to anyone, unless you are willing to settle for the most hackneyed plot, and the most hackneyed characters (including the oh-so-sacrificial heroine).	2002-01-11
US	50375720	R1YDYY6FFP7V51	0451179544	301839101	Christmas Belle (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Had problems with the history...	I read this book some time back (nearly a year ago) and criticized the history and some other aspects of this on a Balogh fan list. [Whoa! Never criticize Balogh to her most die-hard fans].  The love story is not bad, although I had a hard time believing in many aspects of it, partly because of the serious historical mistake that Balogh makes.  Since the other two reviews explain why the romance leaves them cold, I will not go into details on that.  The romance actually worked better for me than did her second-to-last book MORE THAN A MISTRESS (which I really could not find entirely credible).  The problem I had with this book is Isabelle's ability to jaunt to and from France *during* the Napoleonic Wars.  I am not doubting that free-traders and spies were wont to cross to and fro;  however, it beggars the imagination that a young woman (even a promising actress) who was English would have been able to make her way to France - and launch a career *and* a marriage to a Frenchman.  Even if this occurs at the time of the Peace of Amiens (1802), the timing of Isabelle's return is a bit off to say the least.  As a Frenchwoman (by marriage), the earliest she could have returned to England and re-launched her acting career would be 1814.  There is of course the little problem of Waterloo in between, not to mention the fact that even Mrs Siddons would require some time to establish (or re-establish) herself.  The dates did not quite match the age of Isabelle's child; that was one of my problems.<br />The second problem I had was in believing that the youthful romance between Jack and Isabelle could be kept secret in London.  Possible yes.  Likely, perhaps.  But it strains my credulity again.<br />The third problem I had was in Jack's family welcoming Isabelle into their homes as a guest, given her status as an actress.  Very famous actresses might be acceptable, but even then, unless they were clearly happily married, they might not be considered equals - let alone allowedto socialize with the younger unmarried ladies.  Isabelle was a widow, albeit of a French noblewoman.  If she had previously been invited to other country house parties, it would have been as a noblewoman, not as an actress.  Again, a little build-up to the Duke and Duchess's decision to have an actress come as an equal to their country house would have been helpful; i.e. understanding that they were not precisely conventional stick-in-the-mud types.  [In fact, reading the prequel THE FIRST SNOWDROP helps here].  <br />I could not really care for Jack's attitude to Isabelle, and the opinions he holds of her.  Generally, romances where the hero behaves badly towards the heroine (on little or no grounds) and then is forgiven easily at the end appeal less and less to me.  That made the romance part a little hard to swallow.<br />This is certainly not a bad book.  I would say that Mary Balogh's &quot;duds&quot; are still pretty good compared with the average output in the Regency market.  In fact, CHRISTMAS BELLE comes off well compared with three of the last four Baloghs I have read and reviewed - A MASKED DECEPTION, THE DOUBLE WAGER, and A CHANCE ENCOUNTER (the fourth being THE COUNTERFEIT BETROTHAL).  Mary Balogh has achieved the angsty note that is peculiar (i.e. unique) to her, but the plot and the romance in this book is not entirely convincing.  For a better read on the theme of youthful love and separation from the same author, try THE COUNTERFEIT BETROTHAL (still not one of her best, because the secondary romance is actually the primary romance).  Or try LORD CAREW'S BRIDE, the story of a young girl who gives her heart to the wrong man.   This book rates at about 3.5	2002-01-11
US	50375720	R3THHSVDBTKVZ8	B00004HYOV	165967759	Seven Ages: Anthology of Poetry With Music	Books	4	34	35	N	N	This is almost the best..	collection of poetry with some music thrown in that I could find out there as a Christmas gift.  I also had the opportunity to listen to the first quarter of the poems.  However, my set was an audio cassette set, very different in appearance from the cassette set currently available from Naxos.  Unfortunately, that set seems to have disappeared from the market; what is available is either the full set on CD, or the abridged version on cassette.<br />Some of the poems are truly marvellous, and well worth buying this  set for.  The price is great too.  Where else can you find some of the greatest names in British theater (and a minor royal) declaiming some of the best poems (as compiled by David Owen) concerning the seven ages of a human being (as listed by William Shakespeare)?  While not all the choices appealed to me, it was wonderful to hear the voices of Ian McKellen, David Suchet, Derek Jacobi and others declaim certain lines.  The listing of the poems is comprehensive only under popular music (an odd choice, I think).  The listing is not available under books (audiobooks), which is a great pity.<br />The music only introduces each stage.  Each of the readers then continues, sans music.  Therefore the description of this work as poetry set to music might be a bit misleading.  <br />I think that this volume also might be a bit overwhelming for someone not used to listening to more than a few minutes of poetry.  My recommendation is to start out slowly, and then pause for awhile if needed.  Gradually, you can build up to listening more.  There are almost no pauses in between poems (except for the necessary pause to distinguish one poem and reader from another).  A little bit more music in between (every 15 minutes) might have helped.  But if you want a lot of poetry and great actors for your money, this little set is a gem.<br />I rate this about 4.5	2002-01-08
US	50375720	R26ZL7A6I9U7F0	0451127706	23575212	Ardent Lady Amelia (Signet Regency romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good but slow...	This book by Laura Matthews (who has recently published A RIVAL HEIR by the same publisher) was her third or fourth title.  She is one of those authors who has published steadily over the last two decades, but has never achieved the name-recognition of a Mary Balogh, or even a Carla Kelly.   Laura Matthews will appeal to those preferring a slow read, filled with architectural, landscaping and gastronomic details.  This is not filled with fast action and adventure, and it is definitely a book to sit down with cosily, expecting to linger over a sentence here, a paragraph there just for the images created. <br />Lady Amelia is in her third season as a debutante;  she is pretty with gold or bronzed hair and violet eyes, and the sister of a fifth Earl.  Her parents unfortunately died in internment (having been caught in France after the collapse of the Peace of Amiens).  Therefore, Amelia is both subtly anti-French, and also determined to avenge her parents' death by procuring information from tipsy or susceptible young gentlemen.  To wit, she lures successive men whom she suspects of Bonapartist sympathies onto the balcony or elsewhere for a private cose, perhaps with the aid of a kiss or two.  Hardly a demure heroine, then.  And one who is acquiring a bit of a reputation - thus catching the eye of a Lord Verwood.  Amelia has a problem with this peer - firstly, he is not known to anyone (apart from her brother) and she suspects him of being a French spy (an imposter placed by the French in place of the real Verwood), and secondly, she is somewhat interested in him. [Well, her nose twitches whenever *he* is around, you see..].  So Verwood is &quot;spying&quot; on Amelia, wondering what she is up to in her efforts to obtain information for the war effort - she is his friend's sister, and she has been linked to a certain Frenchman who has raised suspicions in Verwood.  Amelia is trying to spy on Verwood.  And both are keeping an eye on that certain Frenchman who has awakened suspicions in both, since he knows no one in the emigre French community and his actions in London are somewhat suspicious.  And lo - the Frenchman brings his sister to London, and the sister Veronique Chartier catches the eye of Peter, Amelia's brother and Verwood's friend.  Quite a problem, one would say.  <br />Amelia conceives of the happy idea of taking one of the families she has helped down to their country place, with the aim of separating Peter from Veronique.  She is double-crossed in this, with her brother inviting the Chartiers (brother and sister) and her aunt (and chaperone) inviting Verwood himself.  Amelia, by now, is convinced again that Verwood must be a spy since he has abandoned her in the middle of a ball [well, there is more to *that* story].<br />Besides the double romance of Amelia and Verwood, and Peter and Veronique, there is the hint of a romance between a local smuggler and Amelia's aunt.  There is Verwood's questionable actions in London (especially when he claims to have met an old friend).  There is Amelia's unquestionably ardent response to his kisses, which surprises them both. [Verwood begins to wonder how ardent Amelia has been exactly with the other men!].  There is the smuggling theme.  And there is the shrew.  What shrew? Well, that is tied up with Amelia's charitable work.<br />This was a very pleasant read, if a bit slow.  There was nothing seriously wrong, except perhaps the fact that Amelia seemed to get by without being labelled fast, and the fact that her brother and his friend did not take Amelia's suspicions seriously. [Well, our heroine *is* inclined to be suspicious].  While there is plenty happening, nothing dangerous happens to the heroine, even when she interrupts a smuggling operation (created for her benefit, I should add!).  If you want a pleasant read with a bit of humor and with lyrical desciptions of an English country estate, try this book.  Despite Amelia's ardency, the &quot;action&quot; does not get beyond PG-13.  A very nice traditional Regency read.<br />Grade = 4.4	2002-01-07
US	50375720	R64K6ACYTO4HG	0449217337	342345593	A Well-Matched Pair	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Should add this...	If you are looking for a conventional romance with an unselfish hero (or a hero who reforms quickly) look elsewhere.  <br />The happiness of the heroine does depend on the convenient accident to the hero's wife, but I do not believe that the hero leads the heroine (a young girl) on - despite what the Nonesuch (Good Ton website) says.  By the way, I strongly recommend that site for a list of titles by authors of Regency, although her decision to exclude most Regency historicals makes little sense to me.<br />Sheila Bishop does not write conventional romances in my view.  The first book I ever read by her was LUCASTA where the young girl you might believe to be the heroine dies midway;  the real heroine is a friend of hers, keeping a diary about what happens to Lucasta and her friends.  I also read a story of hers set in the early Stuart or late Tudor period (MY FAVORITE SISTER) about the adulterous affair of Penelope, Lady Rich (sister of the Earl of Essex who was connected with Elizabeth I).  If you will not touch a book about adultery, avoid this book - it is more historical fiction than period romance, anyway.  <br />A WELL MATCHED PAIR is more a Regency novel than a Regency romance (in the way that American publishers now understand it).  In short, the couple who are the protagonists must deal with messy realities in which married women have affairs and young unmarried women fall in love with married men.  <br />Bishop also writes in a different style from what is now preferred by publishers and editors (and what the readers are now used to).  The style is more that of an &quot;omniscient narrator&quot; who sees everything.  We don't go deep into the minds of the hero and heroine, and sometimes we must guess at what they are thinking.  [They are also less likely to blurt out their feelings through interior monologues or dialogue].  The general writing style is also a lot more formal.  This was the period when the romance (set in the Regency) was transitioning from Heyer to Gothic (1980s being the high point) to whatever we have today.  AWMP is not a Gothic, although other novels by Bishop do have slightly Gothic overtones.  <br />I should add that Bishop cannot really be compared even to Carla Kelly (although both deal with some very serious issues).  She is not Georgette Heyer either;  although her knowledge of the period seems impeccable, she does not use as much cant as Heyer did, and her dialogue is not witty nor light-hearted.   Bishop does not write quite as much about titled personages, and at times her characters seem more Austenesque than Heyeresque.   She might be comparable - in some respects - to Laura Matthews.  I cannot say for certain that if you like Matthews, you will like Bishop, but the two authors share some fans in common.<br />I am also told that Bishop's A WELL-MATCHED PAIR is very unlike the rest of her ouevre.  I am not so convinced of that, given that I have not read enough of her work.  What delights me about Bishop, apart from her ability to convert unsympathetic characters into likeable people with major flaws, is that she can switch from an almost-Austenesque story here, to the pseudo-Gothic LUCASTA to the Elizabethan story MY FAVORITE SISTER, to somewhat more conventional Regencies and Georgian-era romances.  I cannot think of any other author (Heyer aside) who can handle the Regency and the Georgian period with equal ease, and yet in her writing, pinpoint the differences in customs and manners between Georgian society and Regency society.	2002-01-01
US	50375720	R2V2I326LE11UB	0373833210	659482273	A Convenient Marriage: The Reasons for Marriage/ A Lady of Expectations	Books	2	6	6	N	N	No idea why this was published when	ROGUE'S REFORM (ASIN: 0373834586) was published containing the stories of all three Lester siblings. Ah well, if you have this and love Laurens, you might want to read it just to complete your reading of all the Laurens books and short stories around.  <br />Just don't expect the early Laurens and the Laurens of the Bar Cynster series to be the same, in terms of sensuality, alpha-heroes, tortured heroes, whatever.	2001-12-24
US	50375720	R3LG12FTY1VP3P	0380791994	814263159	Singer from the Sea	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Beautiful, complex but not entirely convincing...	First, this book really has to be read in one sitting (two hours or more, depending on your reading speed, and your distractions).  Secondly, the story follows the usual Tepper formula, in that there are a number of men who are *really evil* (the motive differing from book to book) and the heroine of the story is a woman.  Of course, not all men are evil in this book.  I just thought I should warn the unwary reader, who may not have read any of her other books.<br />What I love about Tepper is the intricacies of the worlds and the myths she crafts. SIX MOON DANCE featured a remarkable creation and destruction myth (which turns out to be real), a mystery, and several non-human species.  SINGER FROM THE SEAS makes the creation myth less explicit (because it has been forgotten by some of the people who should have remembered it), and there is a definite mystery developing.<br />The very basic plot is that Genevieve, a noblewoman and the daughter of a high-ranking military commander, is left motherless and is packed off by her father to school.  There she is to be trained to be a suitable wife, in a rigid and apparently unchanging society where women have virtually no rights, where the mortality rate among young women is surprisingly high, and where young women of her rank are forbidden to sing.    <br />In the first part of the novel, Genevieve is very naive but quickly learns more and more about the complexities of her society, becoming an accomplished hostess (completely unappreciated by her father).  She also falls for a commoner, her father's equerry, but knows that marriage between them is not according to tradition.  Even a strange request from an older relative does not completely shake her sense of security, although she does begin to question some incongruities.  Then, the Prince (heir to the ruler) asks for her hand, sending her into panic.  To accept him means a) that she will be parted from her love, and b) that she might die young in childbirth, as do nearly all noblewomen.  To refuse him means disaster for herself and her father.   Her father is the stereotypical seasoned warrior, completely naive about court politics, but also completely indifferent to his daughter's feelings and aspirations.  <br />So Genevieve runs away (i.e. begins her quest), and has a number of adventures, some resembling Bilbo Baggins's encounter with Gollum (THE HOBBIT).  And then, she has a mystical experience with a creature in the seas who tells her to go back to the Prince.  Before she does, she has an affair with her lover who has come to rescue her, and falls pregnant.  To her puzzlement, the Prince does not stand in the way of their marriage, and even seems pleased by her pregnancy.  And the couple, together with the Prince, her father and some other high officials, sets sail for the other major island on their world.<br /> And there, events are set in motion leading to a horrific revelation about why so many young mothers die, and why the leaders of their world are so long-lived.  By the end, the sinners are punished, and Genevieve emerges victorious and practically unscathed with her husband and new-born child.  The quest has ended, or has it?<br />Parts of this novel are truly remarkable, including the prologue which might give you a wrong impression of who has married whom until the middle of the novel, the scenes in the desert, the penultimate confrontation between Genevieve and her father.  Other parts are alas, less than satisfactory, including the transformation of the Marshal (Genevieve's father) from a not-very-smart but skilled warrior and leader into an inhumane man willing to sacrifice his own flesh-and-blood.  The change is too quick, too easy, and too stereotyped.  Furthermore, the motivation of the leaders is understandable, but they are all (with a few exceptions) stereotyped, in that they have sacrificed the lives and happiness of so many others without any qualms, and even, no nightmares.  It would have helped, forexample, to have shown more of the qualms faced by one youngish nobleman Willum who spares someone he loves - but has no qualms about killing others.  <br />Making the leaders and their immediate followers a bit more multidimensional would have helped.  The oldest leaders were clearly infantile, but showing the transformation of some others would have added so much more to this book.  <br />I also admit to be one of those people who is not entirely happy with the metaphysical concepts advanced by Sherri Tepper to explain the rise and fall of worlds.  It seems that worlds can be destroyed quite satisfactory through mankind's stupidity, without needing any abstract explanations.  Also, for a greater sense of purpose, it would have been very interesting to see if Genevieve had been able to get out of her trouble alone (or with the help of her friends), rather than depending on the creatures from the seas.<br />Rating = 4.3	2001-12-23
US	50375720	R3V0FT3D0I97OV	0451172566	549579718	Counterfeit Betrothal: (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Subplot and secondary romance more interesting...	The back cover is deceiving, and I strongly suspect that the cover illustration is that of Lady Sophia's estranged parents.  And the reviewers are right - this story, of a couple estranged over a one-time indiscretion (well, a one-night stand) by the father which the mother cannot forgive, is what caught the eye.  Mind you, reading about Sophia's and Francis's childhood was funny.  I could just imagine that little girl eagerly tagging after four bigger boys, with the older boys more tolerant of her.  Balogh does childhood scenes so wonderfully.<br />I have to admit that through most of the book, once I realized what the cause of the estrangement had been, I felt rather sorry for Sophia's father - being estranged from his wife over something he did when completely drunk, and then missing his only child growing up.  I was also impressed by the fact that the couple seemed to share a bed more happily than their true feelings.  In this book, particularly, you can find out more about the characters through their sexual relations, than through what they say or think.  <br />Sophia was a bit silly and immature through most of the book.  I have to admit that while I understood her feelings, I also felt that she was *very very* lucky that Francis's feelings for her had changed over the years.   Francis of course fully realized what he was getting into, especially when Sophia decided to insist upon an early marriage.<br />The family relationships are wonderfully portrayed, but the true romance is not that between Sophia and Francis but between Sophia's parents Marcus and Olivia (or Marc and Livy).  The flashbacks to their estrangement, the subsequent misunderstandings even after they have spent some time together at their daughter's wedding, and their genuine fears and worries about their daughter marrying so young are all beautifully portrayed.  On the other hand, neither couple will stick in your mind as much as the couples Balogh creates slightly later - Carew and Samantha,Francis (another Francis!) and Cora,  Bridgwater and Stephanie.  And these are only from her traditional Regencies.  <br />This book is short and sweet, and it will leave you with a smile.  Not one of her best, but hardly one of her worst either.<br />Rating = 4.3 stars (points off for more attractive heroes than heroines; for less-developed and immature characters, particularly an immature Sophia)	2001-12-23
US	50375720	R3CMDOMVSOIDMU	0451191447	959554809	A Christmas Bride (Regency Romance, Signet)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Problematic book...	I have mixed feelings about this book.  For one, Helena's behavior is neither admirable in the past or for that matter, for the first half of the book.  Yet Balogh shows her as a living breathing human being with her own needs and desires.  I could not understand however why she married a much-older man unable to fulfill her needs (perhaps I missed something here or in A PRECIOUS JEWEL?).  Helena's past behavior has been despicable, even though understandable, because she took advantage or tried to take advantage of a vulnerable young boy. [If you consider that a stepmother attempting to seduce her teenaged stepson is *not so bad* then I wonder how you would feel about a stepfather]. attempting to seduce his teenaged stepdaughter].  At the same time, it is clear that she has been punishing herself over the years with the memory of her indiscretion, and her fears that she has so destroyed her stepson that he was willing to marry a prostitute, believing himself unworthy of a decent wife [ref: A PRECIOUS JEWEL].<br />This book is not for the queasy.  Helena succumbs to temptation and has a torrid but short-lived affair with a gentleman-merchant (the son of a merchant who has been educated with gentleman: ref - THE FAMOUS HEROINE).  Unfortunately for her, the affair results in a pregnancy, when she had long believed that she could not become pregnant.  Since an illegitimate child is out of the question, she decides to give the baby away after having it in secrecy.  Unfortunately or fortunately for her, her secret is discovered by her erstwhile lover, Mr Downes (brother-in-law of the younger son and brother of dukes), and she is obliged to marry him at Christmas.  Hence the title.  <br />The nice thing about this book is that we get to see a semi-happy ending for Gerald and Priscilla (of A PRECIOUS JEWEL) and we see many other couples brought together in prequels to this book.  I had mixed feelings about Helena however.  She was too given to her own wishes and needs, andshe was not entirely likeable.  Perhaps it is the fact that she is a passionate heroine (a stereotypical merry widow) that is the problem.  But I don't think so.  I did not have similar problems with heroines who have premarital or extramarital affairs in other books.  <br />For me the real problem with this book is that Helena is *selfish* and *self-centered* although not completely so.  She believes that Gerald married a woman of dubious reputation because of her actions, that Edgar became her lover because of her murky reputation, and so forth.  She also decides not to inform Edgar about her pregnancy, and this I found hard to take.  It was understandable that she did not wish to be pushed into marrying again, and marriage without love.  I felt that to the very end, she did not trust Edgar, and that Edgar would not have married her if she had not become pregnant.  There was little sense of love developing between them.<br />The epilogue written by Ms Balogh on her website shows Helena post-birth, but does not really resolve this issue for me.   Compared to the rest of the series (DARK ANGEL, LORD CAREW'S BRIDE, A FAMOUS HEROINE, THE PLUMED BONNET) this book is a disappointment.  In those books, I &quot;felt&quot; the heroines grow, mature, and change, and learn to trust their partners.  I felt the same about the heroes, even though the marriages had often been forced upon both of them.  I really did not get the same feeling in the Christmas party atmosphere of the latter half of this book.  If you want to be re-assured of a happy ending for Gerald and Priscilla (of A PRECIOUS JEWEL), in that they and their children will be accepted into certain social circles, read this book.  Otherwise, unless you are totally committed to reading all of Balogh's books, you might want to skip this book.<br />Review = 3 stars (taking off points for the unsatisfactory pseudo-romance between the couple);  this is not really a romantic book, more about the heroine needing to forgiveherself and win forgiveness from her stepson.	2001-12-22
US	50375720	R1D52QLTIDHFKN	0451203704	720277601	Blessings in Disguise (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Zinged for terrible writing and smart-alecky heroine	First, I think this author has considerable promise.  This is not a bad book for a start, although not as good as some other firsts in Regency romances that I have read.  I do *not* think that Jenna Mindel is going to be a Balogh, Kelly or even a Diane Farr. But I do believe that she has promise if she can work through a number of flaws, mostly in her writing but also in checking on facts.<br />First of all, the writing.  Good writing helps even a faulty plot move along.  A writer whose pen flows gracefully wins over readers who might not stop to wonder why a particular over-used plot device was chosen or why so-and-so behaved so unreasonably.  Jenna Mindel, unfortunately, gave me plenty of time to think about all the things I detested in her plot, in her hero and her heroine, and in her facts.  <br />Secondly, the facts.  There are some twists and surprises, yes.  But these stem mostly from a failure of the hero to find out more about the heroine (whom he intends to marry), and from an apparent lack of society gossip.  There are no big secrets, apart from Winifred's ill-fated romance some years back.  The facts are that the sisters Melanie and Winifred Preston are the daughter of a very rich man, son of a cotton-mill owner, who invested shrewdly in a key invention in cotton manufacture.  With this greater fortune, he was able to marry the woman he wanted, the daughter of a duke.  [The fact that the sisters' mother and aunts are daughters of a duke is not particularly clear for the first half of the book.  You would think that more would be made of it, given their &quot;appalling&quot; paternal connections].  Unfortunately, not only is the father's background obscured (with dark references to &quot;a smudge of trade&quot;) but the father never appears except when he suddenly and conveniently pops up in time to see his younger daughter (the heroine) being compromised.  You would think that the hero and the heroine's father would meet earlier, wouldn't you, not to mention the fact that the father would know more about such an ardent suitor (and obvious fortune-hunter)?<br />And then there is the problematic hero and heroine.  The hero likes to gamble, thinking that there is nothing else to do in life.  Yet, he is unwilling to pay the price for his gambling, thinking instead that a rich wife will tow him out of difficulty (not to mention save his beloved estate).  Since the estate did not appear very much in his memories or in the book, prior to the honeymoon, it was difficult to see whether the hero was really fond of the estate, or whether he wished to preserve it out of respect for his mother's memory, or (like a certain Heyer hero) he wanted to keep the estate merely to preserve his social status as a landowner.  In the beginning, the hero Peter Blessing has his mistress (sorry, his ex-mistress) introduce him around to eligible young ladies.  Rather amazing, wouldn't you think - not a tactic calculated to appeal to any sensible young lady (or their more knowledgeable chaperones and families)?<br />And then there is Winifred.  A pill, if ever there was one. Inclined to think well of herself, speaking without thinking, and playing tricks (even on the hero who might have deserved them, but still..).  A veritable hoyden who speaks loudly, yells out.  And what kind of dowry do you think would overcome such disabilities of breeding and manners?  We are never told - in an era where dowries were well-known, as was the fortune of gentlemen, where marriages were mainly economic and social transactions.  Winifred, in fact, behaves more like a stereotypical newly-rich Cit heiress, vulgar and spoiled, than a lady of breeding.  [I should add that most Cit heiresses were in fact educated in seminaries, in surroundings similar to young noblewomen].  Even towards the end, she acts without thinking. <br />I liked the hero's brother (a widower of long-standing) and his betrothed (the heroine's sister) far better.  Yet this book focuses more ona true match if ever there was one - the hero, who acts spoiled and immature (and calculating), and the heroine who is essentially the same (without the calculation).  Perhaps they are well-matched, but they certainly were not romantic to me.  In my view, there is a difference in reading about a spoiled and immature hero who matures through the book (and who does *not* discuss his married life with his wife with an ex-mistress, nor stakes his future on a game of cards) and reading about a hero such as Peter. And Winifred changes so little through the book, that reading about her comments, her conversation and her antics is not particularly impressive.<br />I suppose that it is to Ms Mindel's credit that she makes the primary romance that between two &quot;difficult&quot; characters, rather than the easier romance between the far more likeable and mature John and Melanie.  But I think that less conversation for the sake of dialogue, and more description of how the protagonists actually changed over their relationship (and learned to trust each other, and share crucial information) would have helped this book.  Not to mention better research and fact-checking on titles (a baronet would be Sir John Blessing, not Lord John Blessing nor Lord Blessing;  the daughter of an earl, unless illegitimate, would be &quot;Lady&quot; not &quot;Miss&quot;).  Beautiful cover, interesting premise, but the book falls flat.<br />Rated 1.9 (mostly for the premise of a fortune-hunting gambler trying to win a know-it-all heiress, the effort to create a likeable romance between two unlikeable and immature people, and the beautiful cover).	2001-12-22
US	50375720	R35PR7CRXXS7M9	0451195426	108380245	Siege of Hearts	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This was so good until ...	I came to June Calvin not knowing what to expect from her, this being the first book I had read by her. <br />To summarize briefly (without spoilers): the plain sister is the heroine - but the beautiful sister is not jealous, mean, nor petty-spirited. The family are all decent, and thoroughly believable. So is the hero Jack.  Jack is brought along as a suitor for the beautiful sister, but as things fall out, he ends up offering for someone else. <br />The problem:   at the wedding, things started to go wrong... not just for the unhappy groom, but also for this reader. Reading the last chapter, I felt as if I were reading about a different heroine and a different family from the one I had encountered so pleasantly. <br />Warning:   Like Dorothy Mack's MOCK MARRIAGE, read upto about page 200, and then set aside. Contrive a happy ending for the couple then and there, by yourself.<br />Rating = 4.1 ([points lost for hackneyed and out-of-context ending)	2001-12-21
US	50375720	R27GU9C6ZQHXOM	0451198948	452720251	Warrior's Song  (Medieval)	Books	1	23	24	N	N	Worse rewrite of the original...	When I was about 10 years younger, I used to love the &quot;strong, silent hero&quot; type - and so fell into reading Catherine Coulter.  At that time, the rape scene did not disturb me so much (I thought she was being realistic), although I realized later that the rapist becomes a hero in another book, and shows no contrition for what he did to the victim.<br />What is horrendous about this book is the rewrite of the mother's character.  In the original CHANDRA, Lady Dorothy (?) is helpless, weak, silly, but not deliberately malicious.  In this book, she is close to absolute evil, conniving at her daughter's forced marriage to a rapist-invader and also threatening her husband with a sudden death if Chandra is not married off. And yes, this time, I did get the incestuous overtones in the relationship between Chandra and her father - almost made me feel sorry for Lady Dorothy, if *that* was going on.  [Note - there is no actual incest, but the relationship is - ahem - rather strange].<br />Chandra and Jerval did not feel particularly romantic to me on this re-read.  I must have had different tastes back then.  Right now, Catherine Coulter - thanks to the trend of her writing - is going on my &quot;do not buy&quot; list.<br />Rating = 1 star (the lowest possible for a distasteful unromantic book)	2001-12-19
US	50375720	R3UP1XGNM4S2BD	0451171950	480178681	Miss Grimsley's Oxford Career (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Oddball romance between two lovers of Shakespeare	The editorial review is slightly misleading, as is the back cover blurb.  Miss Ellen Grimsley, the heroine of this book, is not a student at Oxford University and its colleges (impossible then, in an era where women were not even allowed to listen to lectures).  Rather, she is attending a rather disappointingly mediocre seminary at Oxford (the town).  Whence then her Oxford career?  Ah, that is another story, and one that kept me up, laughing slightly until 1 am.<br />The story begins with a devastatingly funny portrayal of the Grimsley family.  Think the Tallant family (in Arabella) crossed with the family of the heroine in the film The Breakfast Club.  The family is country-based, of moderate means, and of a farming background - very minor gentry, in fact.  Ellen Grimsley's elder sister Honoria is all set to marry the nitwitted son of a pompous baronet.  Her elder brother Gordon is frittering his time away at Oxford;  his family has decided he is to be a gentleman, and to that end, some terms at Oxford will be followed by a spell in the army.  Gordon is barely scraping through his first year as required.  His younger sister Ellen and his younger brother Ralph are the oddballs, or the odd ones in this rather dull family - both have a passion for learning, and especially for literature.  Ralph is a Shakespeare fanatic, and his older sister cannot but absorb some of the Bard's lines.  Her fate has all but been decided for her - she is to marry suitably, perhaps a young farmer with no interest in books. Poor Miss Grimsley!  <br />It is fortunate then that her father's aunt has the bottles of fine wine that her father had recklessly promised the baronet (future father-in-law of his eldest daughter).  To obtain these bottles for the wedding, the father must promise to send his daughter Ellen to a seminary in Oxford, run by the aunt's friends. So off Ellen goes with her aunt - and near the town, she meets an untidy but interesting scholar names James Gatewood.<br />The seminary proves to be a disappointment.  Instead of studying geometry and Shakespeare (let alone geography) Ellen is expected to stitch samplers (which she does badly) and confine herself to a smattering of French.  Most of Shakespeare is not allowed in the school library, some of his plays being considered indecent.  [Did you know that MEASURE FOR MEASURE was an indecent play? Ah yes.].  Well, fortunately for Miss Ellen whose tongue gets her into trouble from the outset, she has a couple of friends, the maid Becky and Mr James Gatewood who falls into the habit of sending her chocolates (a slight anachronism) whenever Miss Ellen is being punished by being forced to write out lines and thus missing her meals.<br />In the meantime, brother Gordon gets into trouble in London town.  He is already in trouble with the warden of his college, having missed one too many lectures.  And now, he has no money to pay a student to write his essays for him! Oh dear.  Well, fortunately sister Ellen is in Oxford, and is persuaded or cajoled into writing a brilliant essay on Shakespeare for him - which Gordon passes off as his own at a public reading of all the students' essays.  Ellen has received help, not to mention a copy of the play, from James Gatewood.  Gordon is duly applauded for his sudden brilliance, and persuades Ellen to write another essay and another.  The great Shakespearean scholar Lord Chesney (a pun perhaps on the Regency author Marion Chesney?) even deigns to attend Gordon's lectures and obtains the only fair copies of the essays from him.  All well and good, except that Ellen is seething with fury that a) she is not allowed the education that her brother takes for granted;  b) she is stuck in this miserable seminary; and c) that her brother is taking her efforts for granted and taking the praise that he has not earned.  She has some vague hopes that one day her efforts will be acknowledged, but now the dratted Lord Chesney has her only copies of her essays (she failed to make copies for herself, you see).<br />In the meantime, Ellen has been skirmishing with her roommate, Fanny Bland, shortly to be sister-in-law to her sister Honoria.  Unfortunately, Ellen has also fallen into the trap of wanting to hear her essays read out in the august halls of Oxford, and dresses up in her brother's breeches and cloak to sneak into the college.  And one day, she is caught on a tip-off from someone, perhaps Fanny - and she is publicly disgraced, and taken home by her father who informs her that she is being traded (in marriage) for a couple of fields to the young farmer who has admired her.<br />So what happens to Ellen, next? And who is James Gatewood, with such ready access to Lord Chesney's library and with the funds to pay for chocolates and coal alike?  Is he really the descendant of a long line of horse-traders?  Or, as we suspect (but Ellen does not), is he someone else?  And what will happen to Ellen's scholarly ambitions?<br />I won't tell you the rest of the story, because it will spoil a delightful book.  But I strongly encourage you to find it and read it to understand what kind of frustrated aspirations dwelt in the hearts and minds of many a bright young woman whose only options were frequently governessing (for a pittance) or marriage (perhaps to a man without any love of books).  This is not so much a romance as an indiction of the withering of many intellects for centuries (although it is hardly radical feminism).  And yes, there is a romance.  If you are not aware by the middle that James Gatewood loves Ellen Grimsley... well, your standards of romance are very different from mine.<br />Rating = 4.8 (taking two points off for some slowness here and there)	2001-12-18
US	50375720	R3K7NY1SUZLXPP	0727854607	423728862	A Masked Deception	Books	3	23	24	N	N	A good start but with a problematic premise, plot device..	This book was Mary Balogh's first, and the one which won her an award as Best New Regency Author, if I am not mistaken.  At that time (1985), most of the Regencies were pale imitations of Heyer or were Gothic in the style of Victoria Holt (aka Jean Plaidy or Philippa Carr).  Balogh used an innovative plot (not taken from Heyer or any other author that I know of) and added in a moderate dose of sex, to show the inner motivations and needs of the hero and heroine.  If I had come across this romance earlier (when I first started reading Regencies other than Heyer) I would have rated it higher.  As it now stands, this first work by Balogh must compete both against her later works and the very best works of other authors such as Carla Kelly and Sheila Bishop, as well as newer authors.<br />I won't go into the details of the plot, except to say that it turns on something slightly improbable - that a man would not recognize his wife when she is masked and disguised, even when having intercourse with her.  And the premise is slightly improbable as well, although I have swallowed more improbable stories by Dodd and Quinn.  Those facts, and the fact that this is not Balogh at her best (when she really twists your heartstrings in her later Regencies), is why I have awarded this book only 3 stars (3.5).  Others might rate it higher.  <br />The hero is not particularly admirable at the beginning.  Like most of Balogh's later heroes, he is a rake, well-to-do, and about to marry only to set up his nursery.  We learn relatively little about his life as a landlord or his political activities (in the House of Lords), or very much about his inner life, except that he fell in love with a disguised lady at first sight, but consented to marry another lady when his love could not be found.  Later, as a married man, he is willing to commit double adultery with the woman he believes to be his long-lost wife, simply because he has treasured an image of her.  His wife is not particularly mean, nor is this woman's husband brutal (in fact, he never does meet her husband for a very good reason).  I did not find the hero particularly admirable.  Nor did I find the heroine's behavior (even though she was seducing her own husband) that admirable.  Those are some things that stuck in my thought;  others might dismiss them arguing that Balogh has portrayed adulterous heroes beautifully in the past.  Yes - but there the adultery has been sort-of-justified (as in THE SECRET PEARL) or the hero realizes his mistake half-way through the book (THE IDEAL WIFE).  Until the end, I did not even get the sense that the hero worried overmuch that he was cheating on his wife.  <br />Similarly, although the heroine Margaret clearly knew that she was *not* committing adultery, she was deceiving the hero into believing that he was committing double adultery, as a married man sleeping with a married woman.  I thought that she had made little or no effort to share her secret with her, and that secret was relatively innocuous.  Therefore the whole masquerade and deception seemed both pointless and petty.  <br />I rated it at 3.5 only because it is still a very good book, well-written and well-plotted.  Otherwise, this first romance did not strike me as particularly romantic.	2001-12-18
US	50375720	R26QSZP3A4SMGE	0451136179	735212817	Double Wager (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	37	42	N	N	Decent twist on old plot devices...	I had the opportunity recently to read two of Mary Balogh's earliest books - A MASKED DECEPTION and THE DOUBLE WAGER.  Compared to her later books, I have to say that both were kind-of disappointing. The books were not badly written, the characters were more or less rounded (but not completely fleshed out in the characteristic Balogh style that develops later), and the plots were slightly unusual.  However, THE DOUBLE WAGER in particular troubled me, perhaps because of the similarity it bears to a much better book (in my opinion) Heyer's THE CONVENIENT MARRIAGE, where the hero, heroine and villain(s) are all more interesting.<br />Balogh does not completely rip off Heyer, in the style of some particularly shameless writers.  She introduces some twists to the story - firstly the notion of a double wager, one made in London by the hero the Duke of Eversleigh, and the other made in the country by the heroine Henrietta Tallant, who prefers to be known as Henry.  The Duke, a member of a group of friends who are trying to avoid matrimony, is nevertheless persuaded to wager on the point, when he determines to marry - simply to cut out his unsatisfactory cousin and heir presumptive.  [Actually there is a story behind the Duke's dislike of his cousin, of course].  <br />In the country, young Henry Tallant wagers with a group of friends that she, who hates being a girl and despises the idea of a London Season, can nevertheless catch the most elusive man, the Duke of Eversleigh.  Her friends think that her loss is a foregone conclusion, given that Henry is so hoydenish and the Duke is notoriously determined to remain a bachelor (besides being rather elegant).  <br />Henry is one of a rather large family - her eldest brother Sir Peter Tallant lives in London with his eminently proper wife Marion;  the young Henry lives in the country with her brother Giles, two younger siblings, the twins Philip and Pen (Penelope?), a flustered governess who is unable to control the children, and a couple of unusual pets.  This entire menagerie travels up to London, for no particular reason, upsetting the Tallant household.  It does serve a useful plot device - in that the dismissal of the governess and the threat to send the youngest children to school acts as a powerful stimulus for Henry to accept the Duke's offer.  And of course, the Duke does offer, ostensibly because Henry amused him at her ball.<br />In the background, the discarded mistress of the Duke forms an alliance with his cousin.  They hope that the Duke will be forced to divorce his wife for adultery and worse, which will leave the succession clear.  The mistress hopes to marry the Duke, or at least not to share his attention with a young wife.<br />The Duke and his new Duchess win their wagers, but neither informs the other of course, that their marriage came about only because of the double wager (hence the title).  The Duke learns about the wager made by his wife from her indiscreet brother, after the latter has run into trouble.  Curiously, he does not judge Henry badly.  I wonder why?  You would think that his pride would be hurt, or that he might wonder if his wife really loved him.  Perhaps he had no illusions anyway about the marriage.<br />Henry is not an admirable wife, let alone a perfect Duchess.  She will not have the marriage consummated, and she will associate with the Duke's cousin despite his warnings (even when he tells her why he so dislikes Oliver).  When she gets into trouble, she will not ask for help, since she believes that she is as good as a man.  Rather, she will borrow from untrustworthy persons and get into scrape after scrape.  She chooses to listen to a man who has proved himself to be less than good, rather than listen to her husband (or ask someone else for advice).  Generally, she is a rather spoiled and immature 18-year-old who seems younger than her age.<br />I found the denouement somewhat improbable, and as you can tell, I did not like the heroine at all.  The story lines, borrowed from THE CONVENIENT MARRIAGE and AN APRIL LADY, could have worked beautifully if the heroine had been different.  The denouement seemed both farcical and melodramatic to me, even though they might be in keeping with the heroine's general character.  But to the end, I could not figure out what attracted the duke to his duchess, and I did not think their marriage would be a successful one.  To the end, Henry (or Henrietta) showed that she did not trust her husband, and that she felt that she could go through life on her own - even though she had been rescued by her younger siblings more than once.<br />What was attractive about this book were the younger siblings - Philip and Pen.  They were beautifully drawn, as was the confusion they created in the Tallant and then in the ducal household.  Their love for their older sister and determination to protect her from her own folly was well-portrayed.  I have some doubts about the ways in which they were apparently able to slip into and out of the duke's house, but that is a small point.<br />There is one major flaw in the plot - the issue of the villain's motivation.  Making the villain the duke's father's sister's son and therefore the duke's heir was somewhat unusual, given that most titles of dukes were created with remainder to heirs male (meaning the sons, the sons of sons, and so forth of the person so honored).  There are only a few titles that pass differently (and do so by Act of Parliament, or as Scottish titles).  This was not well-explained.  That, and Oliver's reckless behavior, did not add up to me.<br />Of all the Baloghs, I have read, this book was the most disappointing, for the reasons I stated.  The writing is immaculate, as usual.  But the heroine and the hero, let alone the intrigue, simply did not draw me in.  <br />Rating = 2.8 (upgraded to 3)	2001-12-18
US	50375720	R3F5AC1F0KZIJ2	0553579339	9995607	Bartered Bride	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great as historical fiction, problematic as romance..	First, I read this book through in a few hours, having waited several weeks to obtain a copy.  That satisfies my minimum criteria for a three-star read.<br />Second, I had mixed feelings about this book, as much as I did for Isolde Martyn's THE MAIDEN AND THE UNICORN (not yet reviewed by me).  As (romantic) historical fiction, it worked beautifully.  This genre is not very popular in the States, but far more popular in the UK.  The depth of historical research and the gritty realism really comes through, and the characters behave very much in the way that real men and women might behave in the medieval period.  The heroine does not defy her father's wishes to marry her to a commoner (a debasement in status for her), nor questions the fact that he is selling her off to fund his political intrigues.  The hero, likewise, is marrying the heroine not for her beauty but for her political assets. He is caught in a dangerous civil war between the barons and the future Edward I -what a wonderful period to pick!.  Having said all this in praise of the book, I have to admit to some questions.<br />Firstly, this book could have benefitted from a foreword or afterword, briefly explaining what was going on in England, and why a merchant might find it wise to hedge his bets.  For persons with limited historical knowledge, this book can be very frustrating.  Even for readers with greater knowledge of 13th century England, it can be a bit hard to follow the events.  I felt as if I should have consulted a history of England before reading this book, even though I knew the background of the baronial revolt against Henry III.<br />Secondly, as a romance, this book is definitely not ideal.  It earns at least 3 stars as a romance (possibly more), because there *is* a romance, although it is slow to develop.  The characters marry for very practical reasons, but they do not communicate very well for much of the novel.  The heroine refuses to sleep with her husband (the hero), and she is not told about his disastrous first marriage which might have explained much to her.  Nor does the hero talk that much to the heroine (even if this is keeping with medieval practice) - about his trade, his history, let alone his political intrigues.  And of course, they spend part of the book apart although for good reasons.<br />Actually, as a romance, this was not as frustrating to me as I would have expected.  After reading a spate of historical romances by very good writers, where the hero and/or heroine behave irrationally at times and the villain has no clear motivation to act as he/she does, this book was a very pleasant change.  Neither hero nor heroine act irrationally;  they simply fail to communicate at times (like real people).<br />For the record, the secondary characters really came alive for the most part.  The heroine's problems in taking over her husband's household is well-done, as is her limited control over her father's household.  There are several household servants with their own problems and worries, there is the possibly traitorous aide to the husband with his own family tragedy to bear.  (I have to say though that his actions *before* the death of a relative are not that clearly fleshed out].  There is the mean-spirited and thieving villain with a definite motive.<br />In short, this is a really good read, although it will appeal far more to those readers who really want their history to come alive (and realistically alive at that).  It is a story of a cross-class romance where the heroine, a noblewoman, largely loses touch with her fellow aristocrats and must learn to live life as a merchant's wife.  While I picked this book out because of its resemblance (in the theme) to Madeline Hunter's BY ARRANGEMENT, I have to admit that it was nothing like that book.  This is more of a slice of life as it might have been in the Middle Ages;  Hunter's book, while far more compelling and disturbing, is also less realistic in some aspects.  You might want to read the two books side by side, as well as parts of Edward Rutherford's LONDON.<br />I rate this book 4.5, with points taken off for the failure to completely flesh out one of the major secondary characters (the aide/secretary to the hero) and some minor problems with the development of the story. Also, the book is in an odd position, a romantic historical fiction rather than a historical romance. I don't take points off for the different genre, but rather for the hero's failure (or the failure of the heroine) to discuss his first marriage, and a dropped plot line here and there, as well as the lack of a foreword or afterword to explain the context of the story.  While not as sweeping as some of Elizabeth Chadwick's historical fiction works (notably THE WILD HUNT set in the last years of the reign of the ill-fated William Rufus, and THE LOVE KNOT set in the time of the civil war between Stephen and Matilda), this work could stand up to some of her lesser works.  I would be interested in comparing this to Hunter's BY ARRANGEMENT (a historical romance with a politcal twist), and to certain works by Roberta Gellis that focus on the merchant and peasant classes (for example, THE ROPE DANCER).  Fans of these authors might be interested in trying Anne Avery's THE BARTERED BRIDE.<br />Rating = 4.5t want to read the two books side by side, as well as parts of Edward Rutherford's LONDON.<br />I rate this book 4.5, with points taken off for the failure to completely flesh out one of the major secondary characters (the aide/secretary to the hero) and some minor problems with the development of the story. Also, the book is in an odd position, a romantic historical fiction rather than a historical romance. I don't take points off for the different genre, but rather for the hero's failure (or the failure of the heroine) to discuss his first marriage, and a dropped plot line here and there, as well as the lack of a foreword or afterword to explain the context of the story.  While not as sweeping as some of Elizabeth Chadwick's historical fiction works (notably THE WILD HUNT set in the last years of the reign of the ill-fated William Rufus, and THE LOVE KNOT set in the time of the civil war between Stephen and Matilda), this work could stand up to some of her lesser works.   I would be interested in comparing this to Hunter's BY ARRANGEMENT (a historical romance with a politcal twist), and to certain works by Roberta Gellis that focus on the merchant and peasant classes (for example, THE ROPE DANCER).  Fans of these authors might be interested in trying Anne Avery's THE BARTERED BRIDE.<br />Rating = 4.5	2001-12-16
US	50375720	R29NTZGADRH9TQ	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Improbable but so funny!	Despite the many many improbabilities in this book, I have to say that I enjoyed this one hopelessly. There are many improbabilities in the story, as \\"wmr-uk\\" has pointed out. Sometimes I bother to list all of them, sometimes I don't. And frankly, sometimes I enjoy a book so much that I don't care. <br />As froth (or as Regency romp), it is fine with me. In the latter category are THE DUKE AND I (although there are some serious themes), the Quick novels that I enjoy (SCANDAL, SURRENDER, RAVISHED, DANGEROUS), and a few others such as Ashworth's MY DARLING CAROLINE (although that was not a keeper). Let me say that if you care only about historical inaccuracies, this book is a miserable read (an F, or a one-star). But if you want a light-hearted romp (for the first half at least), this book merits between three and four stars. <br />I do have problems with the book (apart from the historical inaccuracies). This is honestly one book that mostly uses the Regency as wallpaper, although not as badly as some other books (or authors). The first half of the book is light. It is mostly about Jane and Ransom (an odd name, I agree, but I have seen worse from Quick), and how they get married despite an old society scandal. The comedy is not really subtle, and it is distinctly sexual. If you have a strong (or exclusive) preference for comedies of manners (witty dialogue), this book will not satisfy you.<br />There is a significant second plot - Jane is suspected of spying for the French or passing information to the French (although you would think that even a blockhead would find another character more suspicious). And this is where the book falls apart. First, the hero's and the government's suspicion of Jane is not based on any convincing premise. [Why should she spy for the French?]. Second, when the Marquess is convinced that his new wife is a spy, he does not treat her very well. [No physical abuse, if I recall, but hardly any tenderness and lots of accusations]. Some or most readers might be put off. While he grovels at the docks most satisfyingly, this might not be enough to satisfy some readers.<br />I really won't go into a detailed discussion of other historical issues and accuracy. Yes, the situation described is extremely improbable. Not only would the nasty society debutante have been ruined, but so would Jane. She would have been unable to chaperon any respectable young lady, because the assumption would have been made that she had seen the Marquess in the nude (i.e. she was hopelessly compromised). The hero and heroine spend a lot of time alone together without being compromised (yikes!) and they use first names freely.<br />But, if I required any Regency I read to be historically accurate, virtually none would be acceptable. Even Dorothy Mack (a seasoned writers of traditional Regencies) has her heroes and heroines use first names. And forget about Mary Balogh and Carla Kelly. I am not sure that even Diane Farr gets *every* detail accurate although she is the closest to the true Regency social conventions and practice. <br />This book is not really a re-read, but it amused me and kept me engrossed. And I could fully sympathize with Jane Higginbotham's desire to carry on in her chosen pursuits. If you are interested in a painter heroine (one who paints well and wants to be a professional painter), try the Hazard book I mentioned above (THE SINGULAR MISS CARRINGTON),  or Evelyn Richardson's LORD HARRY'S DAUGHTER.	2001-12-12
US	50375720	R1GPYTAH8ZLKKH	0373290640	164445712	Wedding Gamble	Books	3	15	15	N	N	A puzzling book in parts...	I sought this book out (...) just to find out the story of Sarah and Nicholas Englemere, who play such a prominent role in THE PROPER WIFE.  I ended up reading the book in one sitting (meaning it certainly meets one criterion - keeping my interest sustained), but I was left oddly disappointed.  Why?  The plot is great, the devices are great.  What is a problem for me, perhaps, is not so much the fact that the story begins with the hero engaged to another woman (a virtual shrew), or that the heroine is penniless and on the threshold of marriage to a sadist.  The first part of the book was perfect.  <br />My problems began in the second part of the book (after the couple get married), beginning with Sir James (the villain) gatecrashing the wedding party, and culminating perhaps in the remarkable scene between Englemere and Sinjun.  Let us just say that Sinjun's suggestion took my breath away, almost as much as it did the Marquess's.  Furthermore, it exposed a new facet of him, which I had not expected from THE PROPER WIFE (where there is a wonderful scene between him and Englemere).<br />The ending was powerful and suspenseful, in that I wondered at Sarah's conviction that she would be rescued in time and her willingness to risk her life, not just her reputation, to save other women.  Yet, I could fully understand where she was coming from.  The difficulty I had was with the apparent bravado of Englemere's former mistress, and the blindness of husband and wife to the fact that both she and another person were being used by the villain to create trouble in their marriage.  <br />Read this book for the remarkable beginning and the fierceness of Sarah's convictions.  You will be frustrated in parts (and I could wish that her feelings were left unclear until the end) because Sarah is unwilling to face Englemere with the truth - that she loves him.  [You knew that, didn't you?].  A conversation between husband and wife might have cleared up both the Big Misunderstanding and the Little Misunderstandings. <BR>     <BR>    Justiss is right in showing Englemere as unwilling to talk about his past love life to his new wife, and Sarah as hesitant to expose her feelings, and in fearing for her security with an apparent gambler.   But to us post-modern readers, some of this behavior seems strange - although it is the result of the author's effort to remain true to the period.<br />   I am rating this a 3.5 because a lot of things did not make sense to me: 1) why Englemere chose Lady Clarissa when he wanted a quiet calm wife;  2) why Sarah's ancestral estate was not entailed (the explanation was not good enough);  3) why Sinjun thought he could persuade Sarah into an adulterous affair, even though it would be dishonourable and completely out-of-character;  4) why Sarah refused to confront her husband with his mistress's presence at her ball;  5) why neither Sarah nor Englemere suspected the fine hand of Sir James;  6) why Sarah felt that she could trust either her husband or her former lover to rescue her from Sir James [my biggest problem].    <br />And as I said, I would have liked to see Sarah's feelings about her former love far more uncertain.  Once she had admitted to herself that she loved her husband, her inability to confront him about Mrs Ingram made little sense.  We are to believe that she thought Englemere did not love her, and that she hoped to persuade him into loving her with sex alone.  <br />Which brings me to my last difficulty.  I just had a lot of trouble with the last sex scene.  Not just because it was so explicit, but because the language and euphemisms were far too flowery, completely unlike the rest of the novel.  It is as if a Bertrice Small scene was plunked into a well-mannered Regency.  That is why the book gets only 3.5.  It is a good book, but it is not a keeper for me (independent of the grade).  For the best work by Justiss published so far, I recommend her third book A SCANDALOUS PROPOSAL (published 2000).	2001-12-12
US	50375720	RKGI9ET6VN0S	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Kelly one of the few authors on my auto-buy list...	While I enjoy the works of a variety of authors, only two authors (so far) are on my auto-buy list, and for slightly different reasons - Carla Kelly, and Madeline Hunter.  Let me explain why Kelly is an auto-buy (that means I buy her new, immediately).  She is one of the few authors willing to write about the darker side of Regency life consistently, without being explicit.  That does not mean her characters do not feel passion or desire (or any of the other emotions).  Such emotions are part of their backstory (their past history).  But Kelly's books are almost PG in their content.  The only reason they would be rated PG-13 is that terrible things have happened in the past (or will happen in the course of the story) to the hero or heroine.<br />One such book, which I strongly recommended in the past, is MISS MILTON SPEAKS HER MIND.  Another is THE LADY'S COMPANION.  Both books are warmly appreciated by Kelly's fans, although the former is a very dark book at times.  And now, Kelly comes back to the Regency fans with a sequel (long-awaited) to LIBBY'S LONDON MERCHANT, a book still in print as I speak, in one of Signet's new double titles.  What a wonderful build-up to her latest novel!<br />The story has been beautifully described by another reviewer.  To say more would be to give so much away.   Run, don't walk, to your bookstore or order this from Amazon.  [I love the fact that Kelly's title is at 1,000-something in sales, well above Julia Quinn's and the others - as much as I respect them. Who says traditional Regency fans don't buy books?  Note to myself - buy a couple more copies to send to friends I have newly converted to really good Regencies, along with LLM]. <br />Among the titles I have liked and loved over the past few months, this will stand high.  It is not an easy read.  Kelly is not a light amusing read (usually); she explores darker (but not necessarily deviant) sides of human action and inaction.  In this book, she completes the partial redemptionof a man who was incapable of appreciating the true worth of another good woman, and how!  Liria's story will bring tears to your eyes.  [Fans of Georgette Heyer's THE SPANISH BRIDE, beginning with a scene in Badajoz, will appreciate this all the more].<br />I do hope that Kelly - and the editors out there - are encouraged to continue publishing good traditional Regencies.  Recently I have been trying a variety of new authors, and have only found a few promising gems.  While I came late to Kelly (after discovering Balogh), I was quickly converted.  For the record, most of her books are out-of-print and very hard-to-find.  Look up her back titles in your public library, try to buy them through Amazon and other sources, or badger the publisher to print more double titles.	2001-12-12
US	50375720	R38OVZXNJ0HTTJ	0451203852	612177562	A Diamond in the Rough (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Promising, but some dropped plot lines...	The love story (the romance between the hero and the heroine) is great, as is the secondary (but more intriguing) story of Lady Honoria Dunster and a young Scottish professor. For the gist of the plot, I suggest that you read the other reviews.<br />Why then did I rate this book at only 3 stars? Well, because the first chapter goes nowhere, and is full of errors and dropped plot lines. For one, the hero's fiancee is called by three different titles or styles within the first two pages. She is Lady Honoria Dunster, but she is called Lady Dunster and Miss Dunster by the author almost immediately.  For another, there is no development of Hertford's motivation - as to why he is out to ruin Chittenden (the hero's father), or why he wants to humiliate the hero.<br />This is a major problem, almost as much as why the heroine hates Hertford. The author has created a stock villain here - someone who is simply hateful and hated, without any history and motivation of his own. [Incidentally, the Marquess of Hertford was a real-life peer, although I am not sure if the 2nd or 3rd Marquess would have been the peer at the time this book is set - there is no precise dating here. I am not sure that either Marquess was out to cheat and ruin peers for the heck of it, although the 3rd Marquess was quite a character by all accounts].<br />The best part of this story is the skilful interweaving of how a sportsman-hero learns to play golf (which he has believed to be like cricket, but his friend more wisely compares to battlefield strategy) with the romance.  The hero is helped in his quest by a young and impudent caddy, who is actually a young woman disguised as a caddy. [She loves golf, but women are not allowed in the sport].  Some of the craftsmen and golfers mentioned in the story are real, and St Andrews is indeed the mecca of golf.  Those who play golf or have golf-loving relatives and friends will find this story particularly interesting.<br />I should add that I wish the author had been as careful in her historical research and in her development of her villain as in her golf research.  For one, her villain is such a cardboard character that he is hard to believe in.  For another, her villain is given the name of a real peer (or two real peers). Even more embarrassingly, an octogenarian Duke and his infant (or unborn) son and heir are made keen golfers in the story.  A little bit of research on these points and on proper styles for the daughter of a peer would have created a better impression on this reviewer.had been as careful in her historical research and in her development of her villain as in her golf research.  For one, her villain is such a cardboard character that he is hard to believe in.  For another, her villain is given the name of a real peer (or two real peers). Even more embarrassingly, an octogenarian Duke and his infant (or unborn) son and heir are made keen golfers in the story.  A little bit of research on these points and on proper styles for the daughter of a peer would have created a better impression on this reviewer.	2001-12-10
US	50375720	RACSIQTTD9UK9	037351137X	557732254	Tallie's Knight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very strong book, although somewhat cloying	This is a book that provokes mixed reactions in me (unlike the tremendously powerful GALLANT WAIF which I endorse whole-heartedly). For one, I have mixed feelings about &quot;sweet&quot; stories.  I cannot even read Elizabeth Mansfields one after another, since I need to take a break from all that sweetness.<br />First the good things.  This book is a keeper for me for a couple of reasons.  For one, we see a remarkable Grand Tour taken through Europe during the Peace of Amiens. The book is worth reading if only for the travel sections (and the descriptions of Tallie's reaction to the new French fashions and to the scenery).  Secondly, while the story can be sentimental in parts, this is a powerful story about a man seeking children desperately (if not quite for the right reasons), and a young woman who has remarkable abilities to focus on what she believes she must do, despite her bitter recent past.  <br />Other reviewers have commented in detail on the plot.  I will confine my comments to what works and what doesn't.  Magnus's unbelievably callous parents are mirrored by the parents of Tallie's pupil.  The father is absent; the mother is mostly absent, and remarkably careless and vindictive when present.  <br />Magnus, an earl, looks to his cousin Letitia (Tallie's employer and the callous mother described earlier) to find him a suitable bride.  He believes that he desperately wants children, after years of confirmed bachelorhood.  Letty's house party goes awry when Magnus decides that the most suitable candidate is not any of the aristocrats so carefully invited by his cousin, but - the governess.  Tallie rejects Magnus's initial offer, and she is dismissed by her employer (who is smarting over Magnus's choice).  Tallie then has no choice but to accept Magnus's renewed offer.  She makes a couple of conditions, among which is a startling one - she must be taken on a Grand Tour for her honeymoon.  Here begins the main part of the book, with the characters of the hero and heroine clearly set out for us.  Magnus is cold, having had little familial warmth in his life.  He is interested in children, not for the sake of continuing the title, but because he has suddenly found that he likes children.  Tallie, who is wonderful with children, but is the penniless daughter of a late diplomat, has practically no wardrobe to speak off.  Her dreams are very romantic (with a knight featuring prominently, hence the title), but rather naive.  But her dreams are all she had, until her unexpected marriage.<br />I have to agree that this book is miscast as a &quot;traditional Regency&quot;.  Harlequin Regencies - in the current version - are *not* the same as Signet Regencies, nor the same as Zebra Regencies.  Not all Signet Regencies are PG or even PG-13 (a few of Balogh's works are quite explicit).  TALLIE'S KNIGHT would be rated R for explicit sex scenes, although there is nothing tasteless. (There is R, and then there is R).  Actually, the bedroom scenes are rather important, given that Letty (the cousin) has been particularly malicious, leaving both hero and heroine frustrated upto the middle.<br />Tallie has been concealing a major secret from her new husband, well, actually two secrets.  Both are revealed by the time they arrive in Italy.  One is more delightful to the earl than the other.  But the other is what makes the story slightly unbelievable for me.  It is not so much that I doubt the facts that brought the secret into being, but the transformation of the Earl from a mere man (well, a mere peer) into a &quot;very parfait knight&quot; (to paraphrase Chaucer) is what is a bit unbelievable.  The transformation is too quick, too pat.<br />For most of the story, I would award this book 5 stars, but I found Tallie's day-dreaming somewhat irritating (she could have had more imagination, at least!).  I also found Magnus's transformation by the end too quick.  Finally, there were elements about the dark secret held by Tallie that I founda little hard to believe.  Those are what keeps this book from perfection.  But as an early novel by Anne Gracie, this is certainly a great start.  <br />Rating for this book 4.5	2001-12-06
US	50375720	R2ONI0KZM5HZ0O	0373291744	960835331	Lady Polly	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Another frustrating Cornick work	In THE VIRTUOUS CYPRIAN, we meet Lady Polly, sister of the heroine who has been estranged from Lord Henry, a former suitor. Their backstory sounds interesting, and I looked forward eagerly to reading LADY POLLY to find out what happened next.<br />I had the same problem with both THE VIRTUOUS CYPRIAN and LADY POLLY that I did with TRUE COLORS.  In the former, while the terrible social ostracism encountered by the heroine locally was beautifully described, her refusal to make her identity known was simply shatter-brained, to use a nice Regency term.  Similarly, the revelation that she was actually better-off than expected was all too pat.  In LADY POLLY, on the other hand, a fascinating premise goes downhill rapidly.<br />Let me summarize what happens at the beginning quickly.  Lady Polly has rejected the suit of Lord Henry, under the belief that he has behaved badly and in an ungentleman-like manner.  He has been trying to redeem his reputation with her, and to arouse her jealousy (with the help of the heroine in THE VIRTUOUS CYPRIAN). In LADY POLLY, things are looking promising.  It turns out that Lord Henry is actually a decent man and even something of a hero, although he is careful to conceal his heroic actions under the mask of frivolity (such a useful disguise against French spies, you know).  <br />There is a really nasty villain.  I won't go into details of the rest of the plot, except to say that Lady Polly is a bit too innocent and too unwilling to take people into her confidence, who should and can be trusted.  The self-sacrificial role can go a bit too far.  Frankly, she was a limp dishrag posing as a martyr.  Not very interesting to me at all, since the sacrifice was hardly worth the costs.<br />A lot of the tension between the hero and the heroine dissipates rapidly.  To some extent, this is because Lord Henry's real actions and personality are revealed all too quickly - as is the identity of the real villain and his motives in seeking out Lady Polly.If there is going to be a mystery, some things should be kept secret (even if the reader probably suspects a lot of things).  By comparison, part of the tension in THE LARKWOOD LEGACY and even in TRUE COLORS stemmed from a lot of uncertainty as to who the true villain was, and whether he would be unmasked.<br />If you are going to read any of Nicola Cornick's works, I would recommend that you start with LARKSWOOD LEGACY, which I believe to be her best work.<br />Rating for LADY POLLY - 2.1<BR>*points deducted for a dishrag heroine*	2001-12-06
US	50375720	R2RCGBI7D3B2XN	0373511345	919337215	True Colours	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Disappointing prequel to LARKSWOOD LEGACY	I have been reading more of Nicola Cornick's books, after finding and loving her LARKSWOOD LEGACY (published by Harlequin recently). TRUE COLORS is the prequel to that story - the story of Alicia, sister of the heroine Annabella, and how she became estranged from her sister Annabella. Unfortunately, this story is a disappointment. [As are the other books by Cornick I have read recently].<br />Why? The story begins very promisingly - Cornick's stories are all very promising. A stagecoach accident leads to the unexpected meeting of a young marquess with the lady who apparently jilted him seven years ago. She chose instead to marry a wealthy old man, recently knighted, and is now a wealthy widow. This sounded quite promising, especially when you realize that in Regency England, a marquess ranked much higher in the social scale than did a mere City knight. Furthermore, this marquess is apparently a courtesy marquess only, as the heir apparent of an elderly Duke. <br />It turns out that the story of the estranged ex-lovers is far more complicated than simple greed (with the lady choosing immediate wealth over the promise of a great title and wealth in the future). There is a scoundrelly father, a rapscallion cousin, and a sinister suitor of the lady. Not to mention accidents happening to persons around the lady. And yes, there is Annabella, the flighty spoiled younger sister, who is delighted to have caught her baronet's heir who is clearly a scoundrel himself.<br />Unfortunately, while Alicia is made to look quite sympathetic, much of her past actions - and those of her father - make little sense. Why should the daughter of a merchant (albeit maternally the granddaughter of a late earl) pass up the chance to become a duchess? Why should she believe that her father has the chance to ruin her young lover? Why should her father be able to more successfully coerce virtuous Alicia than flighty Annabella? These and other questions kept racing through my mind. And as in LARKSWOOD LEGACY, I was distracted by a more attractive young couple - Marcus and Caroline (although they are more interesting the later book).<br />The book simply degenerated into melodrama for me by the middle. It was not that anything particularly unnatural happened to the heroine, but there were far too many stock characters and very little made of the supposed estrangement between the sisters that so troubles Annabella in LARKSWOOD LEGACY. And the actions of the hero and heroine made little sense for much of the novel.<br />Rating for the book - 3.4 (corrected December 18, 2001)	2001-12-06
US	50375720	R2HKJLFTGGDGX4	0451194934	625883873	Reforming Harriet (Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Points mostly for innovative plot..	I thought I had written a review for this book, but I see I skipped it.  It is one of those books, actually, that I have some doubts about.  I had no doubts that the book was well-written, or that the characters, zany as they were, were interesting.  But on the other hand, the heroine's culinary pursuits (in the village bakery, that is) seem a little unreal. It was funny, on the other hand, to see the gentlemen of the ton lusting for her - baked goods!<br />The problems I have with the book is not with the hero or heroine's motivations.  The heroine, the daughter of a duke, who prefers to use her maiden name (although legally and socially she would have been known by her husband's name and rank), has had an unhappy childhood and even unhappier marriage.  To compensate, she turns to cooking and to charitable works in her village.  Enter the hero - the partner of her late husband in a spice-importing firm.  The hero is an earl (of course!) who has turned to trade to revive the family fortunes.  [One problem:  Few peers directly engaged in trade; those who did so tended to be despised by other aristocrats.  Investing in certain types of companies was permissible on the other hand, directly, or more likely, indirectly].<br />The hero's links to trade are actually less problematic compared to the story line. Although I can understand her fears, her dithering made the story somewhat hard to follow.<br />An entertaining subplot involved the servants - the earl's man being determined to ensure that his master remains a bachelor (to the point of actively meddling in his betrothals), and one of Lady Harriet's maids being determined to nabble said valet.  I did find the names of these maids somewhat distracting, and wondered where their names had come from. <br />Having read a few more of Putnam's books, I have to say that this is probably her best work.  She has now turned to writing historicals.	2001-11-30
US	50375720	R3A5BIM1FX19X6	0449217337	342345593	A Well-Matched Pair	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Do you want a meaty Regency?	As far as Regency romances go, most are strictly light reading, with variations on the same old plot devices.  I have not read too many books by Sheila Bishop, but her Lucasta was more Gothic than a romance.  A WELL-MATCHED PAIR is a gem of a book, as far as Regency romances go.  Of course, this comparison is made with other traditional Regencies and with Regency romances in general.<BR>I would strongly recommend this book, along with a few by Carla Kelly (MISS MILTON SPEAKS HER MIND and THE LADY'S COMPANION), and Laura Kinsale's FLOWERS FROM THE STORM for anyone who thinks that modern Regency romances (pre- and post-Heyer) are just love stories, with humor at best being their only merit.<br />A bit about the story - (unusual, along with the plots of the other books I have listed above):  a young woman is rescued from a road mishap by a house party of lords and ladies, and falls in love with a personable young man who is a rising politician.  She travels to a ducal seat, where she soon realizes that things are not what they seem.  Her suitor - who is genuinely attracted to her - has had an affair with a married woman, the wife of his best friend at school, and she is now pregnant.  The child is apparently his, and the angry husband fights a duel with the suitor (who is rejected by our heroine when he discovers the truth).  The unhappy wife is sent away to have her child in seclusion, and everyone pretends that the child was born too early and died young.  Oddly enough, the heroine develops a genuine liking for the adulterous wife (to whom she is now acting as companion), and also falls in love with her husband.  <br />However, the husband and his wife's companion do not have an affair, although they acknowledge their feelings to each other.  The wife dies in an accident, and the heroine learns that a) the wife always loved her husband who had grown indifferent to her after the birth of their son; and b) the wife learned that her husband and her friend were in love.The guilt felt by the heroine and the new widower drive them apart, as much as does social convention (it is now impossible for the couple to meet or to correspond).  Later, the heroine comes to London, where the widower (now the hero) acts strangely cold towards her, forcing the heroine to contemplate marriage to her former suitor (the former lover of the hero's wife and the father of their child).<br />I won't go into further details, except to say that the heroine and hero do end up together.  All the major characters, including the adulterous wife and her lover (the heroine's former suitor), are beautifully drawn, and are living and breathing people, for whom you can feel.  In fact, the story reminded me of a cross between Mansfield Park (the lover/suitor being Henry Crawford, but less indolent), and the sad love affair of Georgiana Duchess of Devonshire, upto a point.<br />This was a great read, and well worth my time (it kept me up until 1:30 AM).  If you find this, and you are tired of melodramatic plots but want a story about adultery, platonic infidelity (unconsummated extramarital love), friendship, forgiveness, and the like, try this little gem.	2001-11-27
US	50375720	R36EUH3WNRYMUK	0451204018	65297647	The Spanish Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	OK for a new young author, but...	Amanda McCabe is a new young author, and she has an interesting theme - what happens when a couple, newly-married, are separated by war, and each believes the other dead? What is more, what happens when the husband believes his late wife to have been a French spy, and thus makes little effort to find out what has happened to her?<br />This was certainly a great premise to start with, and since I had heard good things about this author, I decided to try this book. Either I am in a picky mood, or I was comparing it unfavorably with similar books set in the Peninsular War, or possibly both. For me, the book left more unanswered questions than anything else. And I vastly preferred to read THE SPANISH BRIDE by Georgette Heyer, or any book about Sharpe, to read about missing spouses or lovers. <br />Some questions that remained with me:<br />1) Why did Carmen never announce that she was a widow again, with her second husband, an English earl, being lost in battle? I find it hard to believe that she would not have made such an announcement, or else be treated with hostility in her own circle. I won't spoil the denouement, but lack of such an announcement is crucial, given the birth of a daughter to her after the event.<br />2) Some of the characters seemed to be stock types, including the Earl, his supposed friend who spreads rumors about Carmen, and Carmen's chaperone or duenna. Many of their actions make little or no sense. Again, without spoiling the book, I cannot go into details, but let me say that the hero's belief in his wife's duplicity seems too pat. <br />3) A third problem is the heroine's refusal to contact her apparently deceased husband's family. Her reasoning seems awkward. I can understand her being in shock at first, but then what would have happened if her child had been a boy, and heir to the earldom? A big mess, not to say the least.<br />To conclude, I believe that Ms McCabe has talent.   She has interesting premises, with which her stories start.  But she needs to work on her plots.  It is not enough to have a great start if everything then goes downhill, the primary characters (or the heroine) act irrationally, the secondary characters are more like cardboard, and all the major characters act without any apparent motivation.  <br />I rate this book about 2.4.  Along with Mindel's BLESSING IN DISGUISE, this was a really disappointing read.  However, Carmen is at least more likeable than Mindel's heroine - and the situation more intriguing.	2001-11-19
US	50375720	R46C2ST2P8O13	0201103540	88004767	A Book Lover's Journal	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Mixed feelings..	Let me explain why I acquired this title - I was looking for a birthday gift for a new young reader, and Christmas gifts for several friends who love to read. Not to mention a way to organize my own reading. Each group has different needs in a book diary or a reading journal.<br />This particular title is great if you want to write detailed notes about a book. Say, for example, you want to write down your opinions about books you are reading for a reading group, or for pleasure (to catch up with the classics, your favorite author, or in a particular subject). If you are looking for a book where you can put down short quick notes or organize your reading by author or by subject, this is definitely not the book you want. Rather, this is a way to record your impressions of your reading over a period of time. (Some of us like to scribble instead in the books we read, but I am not one of those readers). <br />Was this a good buy, my little problem with the copy I received apart? Yes and no. It was not exactly the title I wanted for myself, and not the title I would give to a young reader. Yes, the illustrations were beautiful (based on book printing and publishing history), but I am far more interested in the author's side of things. And I did not want a pricey diary to record my serious reading - I have a good blank diary I use for the same purpose. <br />The book does have a place to record book loans and borrowals, a place to list the addresses of book stores and so forth. For the reader who wants to keep careful notes about what she or he is reading and who is willing to write about a page or so for each book, this is a good buy. For the reader who wants to keep terser notes about books read, or wants to make lists of books to read by subject or by author or by title, this is not the best buy. <br />Now I wish there was a version of this for a child.  The lettering was nice and large, but a young reader wants illustrations and quotations from works familiar to him orher, not about the history of book publishing?  Are you there, publisher?<br />revised on November 16, 2001	2001-11-14
US	50375720	R3LDPL93S78YYY	1552090159	454082980	A Book Lover's Diary	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Best looking, and also very useful	For my purposes (described in an earlier review) this is probably the most satisfactory book journal.   The other book diary BookNotes was the best as a gift to a young child, in my opinion, even though it was not quite what I wanted.<br />I wanted a place to record all the books I read by subject, by title and by author.  This has that.  I wanted a journal where I could jot brief notes about books.  This has that as well.<BR>This is not however the place to go if you want to write long detailed notes about each book (for that, I would recommend a separate blank journal).  Rather, use this journal as a way to record what you read and when you read.  If you have highly specialized reading tastes, some of the sections might seem extraneous, but the beauty of this journal (apart from its looks) is that it allows you to customize as you please.<br />I think I am keeping this one for myself.  One caveat - I wish that this book had a bookmark (marker) included.  But I can easily stick one in myself.	2001-11-14
US	50375720	R31UAWPGQUJ094	0943097029	328322015	Booknotes: The Booklover's Organizer	Books	4	52	52	N	N	A great way to record titles by genre	What I like about this book (the best, in my view of the three titles I bought recently) is that it allows me both to keep a list of books I want to read by author (I love particular authors) and by subject.  What is more is that the books can be entered alphabetically by author  - a book to those of thus who remember the author better than the title.<br />On the minus side, there is that pesky section on reading groups that I really don't need.  And I could wish that this title came in a spiral version which would make it easier to lay flat, or that there was a way to index all the titles I read at the back of the book (at present I would be limited to indexing the books by author) either by title or by the order in which I read them.  I am rating this a 4.5 simply because of some minor inconveniences.   <br />On the other hand, it is nicely presented (even if a paperback) and it is the most suitable for a young reader.  A children's version of this would be great (with illustrations picked from children's classics, or more color to the illustration, and slightly larger print).<br />To be honest, my ideal reader's diary would be a bit more like a Day-Planner, which would allow me to stuff up the diary in the two or three sections that I use most.  But for my purposes, this BookNotes is the best value and the most satisfactory.	2001-11-14
US	50375720	RUP50MARQ35HG	031215707X	858181566	Jane Fairfax: The Secret Story of the Second Heroine in Jane Austen's Emma	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A fairly good take on Emma, from another's eyes	This book is one of the few books that I have read through from start to finish in one sitting, which might say something either about my Austen obsession, or my reading habits (I tend to skip from book to book, never finishing some).<br />Joan Aiken (now Joan Aiken Hodge, I believe) has written several books that are prequels, sequels, or alternate takes on several of Jane Austen's novels.  Unlike most people, I saw an early BBC adaptation of EMMA long before the more famous Gwyneth Paltrow version.  Therefore, I cannot help remembering the Emma as portrayed in that version whenever I think of the book. The Jane Fairfax in that adaptation was more faithful, I thought, to the way she is portrayed by Joan Aiken.<br />And how is she portrayed?  Very differently from the way she is seen by Emma.  In the novel, we learn very little about her - she is an orphan, the daughter of a low-ranking officer who is taken in by his commanding officer to be trained as a governess (one of the few respectable alternatives to marriage for ladies in the Regency period).  Her aunt and grandmother (the relict, or widow, of a country vicar) live in reduced circumstances.  All we know about Jane Fairfax is what others say of her;  in the novel she has relatively little to say, even though she is secretly engaged to a major (or important secondary) character.<BR>Emma dislikes her, in part because Jane Fairfax is so much more accomplished and in part because Jane Fairfax will not confide in Emma (who sees herself as the fount of advice, not to mention match-making, for all).<br />In Joan Aiken's version, we hear more about Jane Fairfax's inner voice.  This is both an advantage and a disadvantage.  In Austen's version, although we know little about Jane Fairfax (or many of the secondary characters), we are allowed by that very lack of knowledge to speculate about their circumstances, their motives, and their inner thoughts.  In Joan Aiken's version, Jane Fairfax's thoughts are made explicit and those of her secret lover almost as explicit.  If you like inner conversations spelled out, you will enjoy this novel.  If you sometimes want a little veil maintained over the minds of the characters, you might find this a little irritating, as I frankly did.<br />Although the book is well-written there are several minor errors. By page 46 (or so), the Christian name of Jane's grandfather the late Reverend Bates changes.  A Lord Osbert becomes Sir Osbert midway.  A son of a viscount is elevated in his courtesy title.  These are the minor errors I spotted; tehre may be others.  <br />Although this is an excellent Austen adaptation or continuation (or whatever is the literary term) it is not therefore perfect.  However, it is the strongest one I have seen, and almost completely faithful to the original novel.  Read this, instead of the dreadful stuff produced by Emma Tennant and others**, if you are looking for something more akin to Austen.<br />In conclusion, I awarded this novel about 4.4, taking off some points for those minor errors, and for excessive intrusion into the heroine's head (not to mention Emma's head).<br />** Not all the other sequels, prequels or continuations are truly dreadful.  I am however criticizing only the ones that deviate completely from the original plot, as well as from the spirit of Regency England.  For recommendations, check out the Republic of Pemberley site.	2001-11-06
US	50375720	R36F1LA1Q902ET	042515761X	763476866	Crime through Time: New and Original Tales of Historical Mystery	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great anthology, although not the strongest of the three...	I picked this book up at a library sale, and have been browsing through the stories one at a time. The origins of the historical mystery in Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael series is explained, and Cadfael is what turned me onto this genre in the first place.  Some of the stronger stories are the story by Steven Saylor(featuring Cicero and an elegant explanation of the Archimedes Principle) and a story featuring Sir Francis Drake and several sailors on the High Seas.  A story about a Regency dandy turned detective reminded me of other Regency-based mysteries authored by Rosemary Stevens and Alice Chetwynd Ley (however, I found the &quot;fancy&quot; names given to servants slightly unconvincing); the motive was compelling and the plot well-researched.  &quot;Death of a Place-Seeker&quot; which I read three times, seeking to spot all the clues I had missed the first time. [That, in my view, is the true test of a strong story].   I made a mental note of certain authors I intend to try later, having already discovered Steven Saylor and Peter Tremayne from other anthologies. <br />While this anthology has been interesting and entertaining, there were some weaker stories, notably the contribution by Anne Perry, where the story seemed oddly incomplete (what happened to the villain? What did the hint about the villain profiting from the letters mean exactly?).  On the other hand, the story about Mrs Hudson as a sleuth-cum-social worker was delightful - and it was rather fun to see Sherlock Holmes get his comeuppance.  The story about the Salem witchcraft trials was interesting to me, given my study of the patterns of accusation at some point in my college career.<br />The reason I assign this collection only four stars (about 4.4) is because some of the stories seem incomplete or hastily written.   Some of the historical settings seemed unconvincing, while others were simply brilliant.  Compared to the second volume CRIME THROUGH TIME II (which I read first), this collection comes off badly.  If possible, I would recommend reading the volumes in order.  On the whole, this is a good introduction to many interesting authors.	2001-10-23
US	50375720	R1BSCXN5J8GCL3	0786706341	981497768	Royal Whodunnits: Tales of Right Royal Murder and Mystery	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting, but not very compelling...	This set of royalty-based mysteries also include a bit of alternate reality, notably in the deaths of the Princes in the Tower (Edward V and his brother Richard, Duke of York) and the Grand Duchess Anastasia.  I found the stories that were based on earlier royalty (such as Macbeth and his wife Gruoch, a descendant of the older dynasty) rather more interesting.  By comparison, the alternate-reality sketches of some famous royal crimes seemed rather iffy.  I don't read historical mysteries to get &quot;what-if&quot; scenarios, but rather to get valid and soundly constructed mysteries.  [I am rather interested in medieval royalty.  Add to that the fact, that I don't like Edward IV nor Henry VII nor Henry VIII!].  I hoped that the less-known  mysteries in the lives of some major and minor royal personages would have been discussed, such as &quot;Did Anne of Austria really fall for Buckingham?  And what exactly was her relationship with Richelieu?&quot; or &quot;Why did Mary Queen of Scots behave as she did at critical points in her life?&quot;  And so forth.  Of course, stories using these as plots should also be based on solid historical evidence.  That is what makes them historical, not alternate reality.<br />While there were several stories, some better than others, this anthology therefore failed to satisfy me on several levels.  For one, some of the stories simply were not very interesting.  Others offended my sense of history (as well as my sense of logic, whatever I posses).  Still others struck me as rather unrealistic solutions.  On the whole, I cannot recommend this collection; it was not a waste of my time, but I had expected a rather different style.	2001-10-23
US	50375720	RYVKOB68TMFCL	0451202651	38498454	The Unsuitable Miss Martingale (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pretty entertaining, although heroine is very young...	For the synopsis, I strongly recommend tregatt's review below.  This review is more about my reactions to this book, one of the few Regencies I have picked up and finished of late.<br />First things first.  There is no strong melodrama (apart from some nasty rumors circulating), no over-the-top villain, and no espionage/murder etc.  This is a very traditional Regency, almost Heyeresque except for the very frank language used by the hero towards the heroine sometimes (and a few other situations).  In fact, as I was reading this book tonight, I was comparing it in my mind to APRIL LADY (where the heroine is also very young, and the hero is several years her senior).  If you always wondered how Cardross could have fallen in love with a much younger woman (or how Sylvester could have fallen for Phoebe in another Heyer story), this book might provide some hints.  I strongly suspect that Lily's unconventionality is what appeals to the hero, the heir to a great title.  In that, the plot is closer to SYLVESTER than to APRIL LADY. [End of comparisons with Heyer].<br />Now for some caveats.  It helps, really, helps if you have read THE WARY WIDOW (and perhaps even its prequel THE SCOTTISH LEGACY) to understand many obscure references.  Without these, the mystery about Lily's birth and how she came to be in a convent in France and then in a farm in England makes little sense.  Almost as little as how a dowager countess marries a mere Mister for her second husband, or why her first marriage holds few happy memories.  I won't spoil the surprises by telling you what happens in those books, but I do think that THE UNSUITABLE MISS MARTINGALE can be rather frustrating for the reader who has not come across at least THE WARY WIDOW, if not both books.<br />Secondly, many readers will be troubled by Lily's age (17) and by the age discrepancy between the hero and heroine (about 12 years).  Some will find the references to her as a little girl also troubling.  Unfortunately, the first (Lily's youth) is more troubling than others, in that it was somewhat unusual for a youthful 17-year-old to be presented, especially if she had come straight from a farm.  The second - the references to her as a little girl - seem a bit more puzzling, except that she is called that mostly when she is &quot;not out&quot;.  Girls who were not out were relegated to the schoolroom, and placed in the care of their governesses (read Mary Crawford's comments in MANSFIELD PARK on this!);  girls who were out were treated much as young women in their first year at college would be treated today.  That is, they were expected to behave (decorously) in a certain manner and had considerably more restrictions placed on them, but were otherwise treated almost as adults.  So, Lily who is not out could be considered a &quot;little girl&quot; by an elderly Marquess (in his late sixties), and then a young woman on the marriage mart as soon as she came out.  Our modern sensibilities of course interfere with this approach.  But it is true that many young women came out between ages 18 and 19 (most typically, apparently) and were married quite young.  The Viscount's impassioned comments *do* step over the line, especially for his time-period.  <br />I also agree that it is a bit hard to believe that the Russells had no choice but to take Lily away from the farm and immediately present her.  That would not only have been untypical, but also short-sighted.  Lily might have Beau Russell for a guardian, but she is also remarkably sheltered and naive for her age in some respects, and she knows virtually no one in society(apart from her guardians).  Especially given her murky background, one would expect that the Russells would introduce Lily into society slowly, first by having some country parties at their estate and then making the rounds of other houses with Lily in tow.  Instead, they bring Lily to town, and expect to storm London society.  I am not surprised that the gossip begins immediately.<br />Alastair and Cornelia, the somewhat hedonistic and self-centered hero and heroine of THE WARY WIDOW, are in a different role, somewhat alien even to them - as guardians and chaperons of a very attractive and somewhat headstrong young girl.  And they are not entirely comfortable in those roles, which is understandable. I particularly enjoyed the scene where the Viscount wants to pay court to Lily, and has to ask Alastair for permission.<br />Yes, Alastair and Cornelia have had no children in several years.  Is that so surprising?  In the Regency period (and today) not all couples were blessed with children.  It is somewhat ridiculous to assume that a happy and passionate marriage automatically means that children will be born aplenty, almost as much as to assume that heroines jumped into bed with heroes without worrying about an unwanted pregnancy that would shame them.  It was in fact curiously refreshing to come across a childless couple, whether deliberately or otherwise.  I was reminded of the childless Castlereaghs, the childless Yorks, and so many other famous Regency couples (including the Prince Regent and Mrs Fitzherbert herself).  <br />While I enjoyed reading the story from Lily and the Viscount's point of view, and seeing how they misunderstand each other (she worries about the disparity in rank; he about the disparity in age),  the story did not satisfy me completely.  I don't particularly care that Cornelia seemed relatively passive (especially when faced by that harridan mother-in-law), or that the colorful widow Mrs Potter played a minor role.  What worried me was that the whole plot turned really on a failure on Cornelia's part to be frank about Lily's background with her and her fiance.  Her parentage was hardly all that shameful, at least when compared to the damage done to Cornelia and Lily's reputation.  For another, there was a throwaway reference to a Martingale family of tenants.  Somehow, that thread was not woven back into the story, whether to disavow any connection or to make something of the mention.  For a third, Lily's failure to recognize her physical attractiveness and to also recognize (earlier) her lack of birth and breeding as a major problem in society were both less than credible.  Was she really *that* naive and sheltered?  Possibly, but then her appeal to the Viscount seems even more puzzling.  His being attracted by her refreshing candor and lack of pretense is one thing, his attraction to her because of her inexperience and naievete is something else.<br />Which brings me back to one problem that I have persistently with Barbara Hazard's plots.  She has great plot devices and interesting characters;  however somehow her books do not seem to have the space to develop the stories fully and for the characters to come alive in a multidimensional manner.    This may be a problem of the page limit;  it may be a different problem.  [I seem to recall books by other authors who do just fine with even more complicated plots].  Like other readers, I felt that the couple really needed a year or more apart in which to grow and mature, and see if their attraction was solely physical.  <br />While I enjoyed this book and gobbled it up happily, I have mixed feelings about it as I finish this review.  In the end, I have decided to assign it a 3.7 rather than a 4+ grade.  The major problem I have is not with the age discrepancy or the youthfulness of the heroines (I loved A LONDON SEASON by Joan Wolf, with very young lovers) but rather with the believability of the romance - and the plot device that gets the heroine to London fast.	2001-10-17
US	50375720	R21L8SJR6O683S	0415064554	326627092	ROYAL MISTRESSES PB	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not a very good book....	This books rates up there (or down there) with Venetia Murray's AN ELEGANT MADNESS.  Like that book, the author has some nice illustrations.  Like that book, the book is full of inaccuracies and mistakes (did you know for example, that George IV and Mrs Fitzherbert had 10 children, together?  News to the long-deceased lady who had no issue by three marriages).  And for accuracy with titles, forget it.<br />About half the book focuses on the Hanoverians, the Coburgs (Edward VII) and to some extent, the Windsors.  While the Stuarts certainly are not neglected, the first half of the millenium (the Conqueror's family, the Angevins/Plantagenets) are largely neglected.  There is no mention, for example, of the fact that Henry I's eldest illegitimate son, Robert, Earl of Gloucester was the most loyal supporter of his legitimate half-sister the Empress Matilda (Maud) in her battle with her cousin Stephen for the throne.  And very little about Henry's other illegitimate children, except a mention that two of them died with their legitimate half-brother in a shipwreck.   There is no mention of the fact that Rosamond Clifford, mistress of Henry II, was mother of William Longsword.  And forget it, if you want to read anything about the mistresses of the Scottish kings before James VI &amp; I and his mother Mary, Queen of the Scots.  [The Welsh don't even get a look in, of course].  <br />In fact, this book is mostly about the Stuarts and Hanoverian royal favorites (male and female), although the cover should have warned the reader (featuring, as it does, a portrait of Nell Gwynn).  <br />To be fair, the author does discuss the political influence of some of the favorites, as well as the role they played in changing British history.  [Hint:  male favorites were far more influential, but the book would not sound so joicy if labelled otherwise].  Interestingly, the Villiers family looms large in the narrative with George Villiers bringing his whole family with him (a la Wydville)when he rose to the bed of James I.   His relative Barbara Villiers was mistress of Charles II, while another relative Elizabeth Villiers was mistress of William III (of William and Mary).  Both women and their male relative obtained many titles for their descendants and relatives.  Today, at least one English duke and one Scottish earl (the terms refer to the peerage, not the nationality) trace their lineage to a royal mistress;  many other peers and notables are descended from Charles II's many bastards.  [There are some excellent books on royal bastards, which do a much better job checking facts and dates].<br />This book is a light read, and not one to be read if you are looking for detailed information on a particular monarch's amours (no bibliography is provided for each monarch, although footnotes help locate some sources for additional information).<br />The Stuarts are best served, but be wary when the author turns to the Hanoverians (when he appears to rely on second-hand sources).  It is true that George I had a mistress, but one woman alleged to be his mistress was actually his illegitimate half-sister (and George I was not apparently her lover).  <br />From the political point of view, I found the early Hanoverian chapter most interesting, when the author discussed the political maneuvering of the mistresses of the first two Georges.  I was aware of course of the role played by certain ladies in the South Sea Bubble, and the importance of this scandal in Walpole's career.  But reading about the role these mistresses played in developing the relationship between the King and the Prime Minister was certainly interesting.  I wanted to read more at this point;  unfortunately, the author moved on to discuss the Royal Marriages Act (the reign of George III) and so forth.  <br />While I cannot recommend this book because of the many errors in titles, parentage, issue, and dates,  a casual reader might still find this book of interest.  Just beware of the errors. Some of them are obvious, others less so.<br />I wish that there was a better-researched book focusing on royal favorites (a nice generic term) from the early Middle Ages to the late Hanoverian period, particularly on their effects on politics and society.  From that point, the antics of the Saxe-Coburgs and Windsors are less than relevant.  Well, I am still looking...	2001-10-17
US	50375720	RV1YS6DFPNE3	0786709162	421458096	The Mammoth Book of More Historical Whodunnits	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Generally excellent collection of historical mysteries...	This collection of 21 stories focuses strongly on the late Roman republic to the early Roman empire, and again on Elizabethan England.  There are stories representing other periods, including a couple of funny pastiches of Sherlock Holmes, but if you like the Roman detective mysteries of Steven Saylor (or loved Colleen McCullough), and if you have a weakness for the intriques of Tudor England, this collection will most appeal to you.<br />Some of the stories, notably \\"Flibbertigibbet\\", were actually quite chilling in their depiction of torture as routine, the ritualistic execution of a captured Jesuit priest, not to mention the corpses left in the wake of an early \\"Jack the Ripper\\".  If you can get past the vivid depiction of the execution, I would strongly recommend that story as an exercise in moral ambiguities.  There are other strong contributions, including one based on Hamlet (a perennial favorite, it seems) and yet another on Hamlet (two Shakespeare-based mysteries).  Personally, I liked Michael Jecks's \\"The Crediton Killings\\" (set in medieval England) and the two stories from the late Roman republic the best.<br />I use historical anthologies such as this as a way to test what is out there.  For example, an author may write very well, but the narrative may be too graphic for my comfort.  Others may create a short story about a detective appearing in their books, such as Sister Fidelma (the creation of Peter Tremayne), or Gordianus (the creation of Steven Saylor).  Yet others (Margaret Frazer, for example) use this as an opportunity to write about a slightly different period, and without using their most well-known fictional character.<br />The anthology offers a reasonably wide variety of historical mysteries, ranging from literary creations (Holmes, the Shakespearean Hamlet) to the odd historical personage serving as detective.  And there is of course the criminal (or possible criminal) serving as detective in one or two stories.<br />How does this compare to earlier iterations (The Mammoth Book of Historical Whodunnits, The Mammoth Book of Historical Detectives), or to other series?  Pretty well.  For the price, it kept me well-entertained, and I discovered a couple of new authors I intend to try. There are no pre-historic stories, and none set in non-European worlds of course, nor any stories set between 1610 and 1800 that I noticed.  If these represent your favorite periods and/or locales, you might be slightly disappointed.  On the other hand, you will have read an interesting selection of authors.compare to earlier iterations (The Mammoth Book of Historical Whodunnits, The Mammoth Book of Historical Detectives), or to other series?  Pretty well.  For the price, it kept me well-entertained, and I discovered a couple of new authors I intend to try. There are no pre-historic stories, and none set in non-European worlds of course, nor any stories set between 1610 and 1800 that I noticed.  If these represent your favorite periods and/or locales, you might be slightly disappointed.  On the other hand, you will have read an interesting selection of authors.	2001-10-10
US	50375720	R13AXTDXNKEDJR	0425164101	846745257	Crime through Time 2	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best of the three volumes so far.	If you want to pick up one anthology to represent some of the best writing in the historical mysteries genre, this is it.  Better by far than the Mammoth books (although they are good bargains), and better than the first and third CRIME THROUGH TIME.  Some of the stories that stuck in my mind were the first murder (in the Stone Age), and the chilling story of a young Venetian woman.  Most of the stories stand very well on their own, and some might tempt you to read further works by their authors.  Some of the authors I was already acquainted with, while others were completely new (and delightful surprises) to me.	2001-10-09
US	50375720	R31287B39VJ69A	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Great characters, but a hackneyed plot - read for setting!	I was recommended Elizabeth Peters as a writer of historical mysteries, by friends who know my obsession for that genre (and for reading romances!) - everyone also urged me to listen to the tapes by Barbara Rosenblat.  Well, I haven't located the latter, but I decided to read the first Amelia Peabody novel in print. <BR>This review is a highly personal reaction to the first Peabody book, and *not* a summary of the plot. [For that, please go elsewhere].<br /> Frankly, I think this is a book that is better listened to in audio form, than read in print.  Why?  Firstly, some of the conversation sounds decidedly stilted if not laughable on paper, but probably sounds better if read aloud.  Secondly, the mystery for me at least was quite obvious from the start - and I want to be surprised in my mysteries.  From that point of view, this book was a disappointment.<br />Thirdly, while I realized that Elizabeth Peters/ Barbara Mertz is parodying romance novels and the conventions of Victorian England, I could not help being irritated by Evelyn Barton-Forbes, a young woman in distress aided by Amelia Peabody.  I began to wonder if I had been spoiled by my Amanda Quick binge (her heroines being, well, unconventional for Victorian times).  I decided that even reading a parody of Cartland (or whoever) is pretty painful.  It might sound better in audio; I have my judgment suspended until I come across the Rosenblat version.<br />Now for some problems which left me cold, especially since I am pedantic about British titles and succession to titles in the British peerage.  The succession of Evelyn's cousin to the peerage made very little sense (although I am aware that some earldoms could pass to a grandson or other male relative through a female descendant).  Secondly, the motivation of the villain was far too pat and easy.  I could spot that coming as soon as I read the plot.<br />Reading about Amelia's interest in Egyptian archaeology (Egyptology) is delightful on the other hand.And reading about her interactions with Emerson is delightful.  This is one book you want to read for the main characters (Evelyn and the villain aside), and for the setting and the profession engaged in by the heroine.  Definitely not one to read for the mystery.<br />Will I read more Peabody books? I am not sure, frankly.  I am not that fond of ancient Egypt, although I once dreamed of being an archaelogist in my pre-teens.  And to read about independent-minded women in Victorian times, I have many other options.   I might give another Peabody book a try, or then again, I might not.	2001-10-09
US	50375720	R2MEVKHZ0O2XS4	0385467966	672086412	Recipe for Death	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You must be fond of culinary mysteries...	Frankly I didn't see the murderer coming, nor the motive.  [And sometimes, I can spot the murderer right away].  Since the Ingram review is so bad, here goes -<br />The book opens at a cooking contest, at which food writer/ amateur detective Darina Lisle has been invited to judge.  The surprise winner is one Verity Fry, whose mother Constance and sister Pru (Prunella, as it turns out) run a small but successful organic farm.  At the competition, Darina notices a young handsome restauranteur Simon who seems very friendly with Verity; however Verity also has a late-arriving boyfriend two decades her senior - a smart businessman, Oliver Knatchbull.  [the name is that of an authentic British noble family, but the character is entirely fictional].<br />Darina is persuaded by the Fry women to come and see their farm.  And so begins her involvement with that family who do produce wonderfully tasty meat and poultry; at the same time, she is persuaded by Simon to help him with his forthcoming cookbook.  What becomes clear both to Darina and the reader is that Simon and the Frys have a complicated relationship, and that Simon is desperate for money.  What is clear to the reader (but not to Simon) is that Simon seems rather close to Verity.  Not surprisingly, when Constance Fry (the mother) turns up dead following a hit-and-run,  Simon is one of the suspects - but is quickly cleared (Darina just happens to be his alibi).<br />But there is another murder to follow - and a rather involved history behind that murder.  The cousin of a deceased cookbook writer has recently returned to her family home after spending years abroad;  there is some mystery over her opposition to Verity's proposed marriage to Oliver Knatchbull and her fear of her cousin (and heir).  There is considerable mystery about Constance Fry's romantic past, and about Verity's birth.  These mysteries are largely solved, and mostly successfully, by the end.  The murder involves a pate competition, and the mystery of which pate was responsible for the death of Natasha Quantrell (the writer's cousin).  Not to mention the reason for her murder - which is not precisely what you might suspect.  [Hint - there is a strong element of Greek tragedy here].<br />If you like your mystery well-flavored with culinary details, this is just the book for you.  Darina Lisle can be occasionally irritating (she is rather interestingly, herself the cousin of a late writer); and both she and her boyfriend are related to the aristocracy [not typical, I assume, for a detective].  There is her own failed or not-so-failed romance playing out in the background.  Both Verity Fry and her sister Pru are remarkably self-centered people, as is Simon.  [If you like more sympathetic characters, this is not the book].<br />I have to admit that I was not entirely satisfied with all the elements.  For example, Natasha Quantrell's opposition to the marriage seemed somewhat specious.  Constance Fry's affection for Verity seemed overdone.  Still, it was interesting to read about the lifestyle of a cookbook author, and to understand the tensions in the life of such an author.<br />I rated this book at 3.7.   While this book is not a re-read, it is still good enough to forward (by mail) to a friend.	2001-10-04
US	50375720	R62SN071QOAIK	0553285947	694412513	Surrender	Books	4	15	18	N	N	One of Quick's best works despite some major flaws	I am one of those readers who prefers Amanda Quick's earlier works.  When I first discovered historical romances (in my mid-twenties) Quick was one of the authors I devoured.   I think SCANDAL (a somewhat untypical Quick) was my first book.   Somehow I missed SURRENDER.  Recently I came across a copy, and because of all the positive reviews, I decided to try it.   <br />I also have to admit that a fortune-hunting hero is quite unusual for Quick.  Usually, her heroes are all very rich, mysterious, and rather intimidating.  This hero, Lucas, can be intimidating - because of his status as  a war hero.  The mystery about him is not so much in in his past (he is a distant relative who has succeeded unexpectedly to the title), but in his financial position at least as far as the ton (society) is concerned.  <br />The story begins with Lucas pursuing a not-so-young (in her mid-twenties) heiress named Victoria, with the aid of his former love Jessica.  Unlike previous old flames in other Quick novels, Jessica is not the villain(ess). In fact, she is decidedly a prude, and rather pleased with her status as a martyr to family duty.  But I digress...<br />Victoria is the usual Quick heroine in that she is bright, unconventional and she positively thirsts for adventure.   She is unusual in that she is richer than the hero.  As in most Quick plots, the heroine's desire for adventure leads her into some compromising situations and also considerable danger.   Thanks to one such episode, Lucas and Victoria must get married - which suits Lucas just fine.<br />Well, Lucas is a fortune-hunter, but he is a bit more than that.  He is fortune-hunting because he owes the people on his estates and the land the best that he can manage.  [A rather nice reason to chase an heiress, compared to the usual spendthrift feckless gamble who goes fortune-hunting].  And Lucas also respects Victoria's intelligence, her unusual qualities, and even her appetite for rather unorthodox adventures.   Although he is not displeased by his forced marriage, he would have preferred a more conventional courtship.   Best of all, although it would have been easy for him to engineer the forced marriage, it is clear fairly soon that he was not the one who betrayed the couple.  <br />Victoria and Lucas have their usual tiffs, including a remarkable tiff about money and her spending, in which he manages to alienate Victoria for a while.  But he is always good at retrieving the situation, partly by appealing to her sense of adventure.    And into this mix is thrown an old family legend about an Amber Knight and his Lady, into which Victoria plays beautifully with her penchant for amber-colored and yellow-colored outfits.   The people on the estate are as thrilled by Victoria's wardrobe as her actions, and everything seems to be going nicely.<br />Or is it?  From the outset, it is clear that Victoria is being stalked by someone regarding a Big Secret in her past.  And here I have to say that Victoria exhibits remarkable stupidity (as does Lucas at one point).   Does she take someone into her confidence early?  No.  Does she take certain precautions such as hiring a Bow Street Runner or finding out the mole among the staff? No.   Do she and Lucas act rashly at a certain point?  Yes.     Unfortunately, this part of the story was a decided letdown as was the author's lack of knowledge about inheritance law.  <br />For the record, if Victoria's mother had control of her own fortune at her first husband's death and she then remarried without any safeguards, her fortune would go immediately to her new husband.   If she and her friends had safeguards built (basically a trust being set up), then her new husband could not inherit her fortune.    The point being that the reason for a certain death in the back history of the novel made little sense - almost as little sense as the villain's desire for revenge (this person is supposed to be smart).  I cannot say more without giving away secrets,but at the beginning of the book, either Victoria inherits her mother's fortune outright after her mother's death (usually in the form of a trust) or that fortune has passed into another family in the absence of such a trust.  [For further enlightenment, I recommend Emily Bronte's WUTHERING HEIGHTS].  <br />If this problem (with the disposition of Victoria's mother's fortune) had not existed, and if the hero and heroine had not acted rashly (and even stupidly at several points), I would have given this book a 5 or something close to it.   As it stands, it gets a 3.9 (rounded up to a 4).  Why do I penalize it so much?  Because Quick makes mystery and revenge key motives in her plots - and it is disappointing when that part comes undone, especially near the end.	2001-09-21
US	50375720	R3PV9HW11ZT9WX	0515125156	974548629	The Maiden's Heart	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great premise, but disappointing for all that...	This is the first Julie Beard book I have read, and I picked it up mainly because of its medieval setting and the interesting premise (a young heiress wants a spiritual marriage, or a marriage that will not be consummated, from her husband, who is a knight and the disinherited younger son of a baron).   First, I must speak to the merits of this book before addressing its flaws.<br />The premise is one that I have not seen in any other medieval romance, and I have read many.   The hero Hugh is, as I have said, a knight whose livelihood depends on his winning tournaments, but who gives up that same livelihood when his best friend is killed accidentally in one match.  He is also the disinherited second son of a baron (who we later  learn is deceased), and he has  been brought up in circumstances not befitting his birth and social status.  [We learn more about this half way through the book].  <br />The heroine Margaret is the daughter of a baron who has fallen on hard times.  Not only is his barony greatly diminished but the baron is also mentally handicapped after suffering head injuries during a raid on his castle.  Margaret is struggling to keep the estate afloat, and to conceal the truth about her father's condition from vassal and king alike.  [The book is set during the reign of Edward II, one of the weaker kings of England].<br />The social history of the book is interesting.  There is a papal ban on tournaments because the Crusades are on.  Of course, the ban is largely ignored, especially by the better-connected knights.   The king, whose reign is not discussed that much, has some vicious companions at least from his youth as Prince of Wales [I am not sure how far this is true, given that his father was the great Edward I who would not have tolerated such lawlessness in his own lands].   There is discussion of various &quot;heretic&quot; movements including the Cathars, and there is also debate about the role of marriage.   This social history can be off-putting for those who just want medieval history as wallpaper, but will be of interest to those who want some authenticity with their story.   I have to say that as good as the social and religious details are, the political details are rather sketchier.  Furthermore, without an author's note,  these details can be hard to follow even for those somewhat knowledgeable about medieval history.<br />Now to the story.   The hero and heroine are both intriguing characters, basically very good.  The heroine is beautiful and chaste, but unaware of her beauty.   The hero is truly chivalrous, but he is unlettered and without connections, thanks to his disinheritance.   The story (of which I will not say much) is an interesting one, with some intriguing secondary characters.    While the marriage is unconsummated for most of the book, of course there is a happy ending eventually.   <br />Now to some problems.   Firstly,  I wonder why every author must have a heroine who is completely unaware of her beauty.  [For some heroines, who have been constantly criticized by their mothers, this may make sense.  For Margaret, it makes no sense].   Second, Hugh's family circumstances borders on the melodramatic.  Not only are we to believe that he, the son of a baron, was sent away from his home and fostered by a peasant family, but that despite his limitations in education and upbringing, he somehow managed to find a sponsor for his training as a knight.  [Generally, such sponsorship meant family connections and the support of relatives, particularly of fathers.  Equipment was expensive in particular].   I may have missed how this happened, but I think not.<br />Thirdly, we are to believe that after the death of Hugh's father, his beloved elder brother John made no effort to see Hugh - and Hugh was so self-sacrificial as to not demand his rights then, nor to make any effort to see his brother (who is described as being gentle etc).  Hmph.<br />Now as to Margaret.   I can understand that in the worry about her father and keeping his condition secret, she forgets to keep the estate going.   But some of the details made no sense.  If the estate was so run-down, surely some people must have suspected the truth.    Either there was a conspiracy among the loyal servants and vassals to conceal the truth (and to keep their knowledge secret from Margaret herself) or medieval people were remarkably credulous.   I think not.<br />Margaret's demand for a spiritual marriage while remaining married also does not make that much sense.   There were such cases, but in those cases, the woman (or man) demanding such a marriage almost always entered a  convent or monastery.   Margaret's attitude is indeed an enigma for people of her time.<br />Finally the villain or villains.  Bishop Jerome's disdain of Margaret's attitude and his fear/hatred of the abbess makes sense given the religious beliefs of the time, and the attitudes in particular towards woman's place in society.  He is not a godly man, but that was indeed the case for many clergymen.   However, his cousin Ranulph (the real villain) is almost a stock character, with his evil actions driven almost solely by envy of Hugh - a man he has beaten in a tournament.   This does not make a lot of sense.  Or if it does, it makes for a rather unsatisfactory, unidimensional villain.<br />Oh - and the king.   Edward II was not a satisfactory king, weak and given to favoring his male favorites - and believed to be homosexual (if a modern term may be applied).  It is hard to believe however, that Margaret (daughter of one of his vassals, however small) would have been able to marry a landless knight, without any consent required by her father's overlord.   Nor are the wider political problems of Edward II's reign discussed at all.  <br />I liked Hugh and I liked Margaret.  I just did not find their family circumstances all that convincing, and I found the stock villain positively irritating.    At the same time, I appreciated Julie Beard's efforts to integrate the details of medieval society into her work.   This is why I rated this book at 3.8 (rounded up to 4).	2001-09-20
US	50375720	R24QQ6LPCXIPAP	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	3	11	18	N	N	Spoiler alert - lovers of fairy tales, revised, will like...	There is a growing trend to rewrite and revise fairy tales as romances.  For example, Julia Quinn's latest book in the Bridgerton series, at least two books by Katherine Kingsley, and several books by Judith Ivory. In some senses, the romance novel (or novella) can be viewed as a modern day fairy tale for women, with the Happily Ever After (HEA) ending.   [Well, it is true that a very few fairy tales have unhappy endings...].  If you think of this point, reading and appreciating Judith Ivory's works becomes much easier, as does appreciating the romance genre in general.<br />From the point of realism (and I tend to be a bit of one), this novel has plenty of faults, beginning with Edwina's lack of wealth, her social status, her lack of family, and the knowledge of the author about the peerage in general.  The contrived ending is a major problem, as is the idea that a ratcatcher, even a highly intelligent one, can be converted into a gentleman within a few weeks - a process that takes even Professor Henry Higgins (MY FAIR LADY, PYGMALION) several months.<br />If you set these problems aside, the story is quite enjoyable and also rather unusual.  While one of Christina Dodd's books and a book by Stephanie Laurens both feature finishing governesses of good birth as heroines,  this book differs in making the hero not a peer but - a ratcatcher.  Some readers will react with disgust, but that made the story intriguing enough for me (coupled with the excerpt featuring the bet about the legs) to pick the book up.  The first half is indeed quite interesting, although Edwina is too quick to agree to the bet (ladies were usually far more prudish, especially when Mick makes an even more outrageous suggestion).  That she accedes quickly suggests that she is more than willing to go along, which says all kinds of things about her, Mick, and their relationship.<br />The book drags a bit in the middle.  The real problem I had was with the ending.  Firstly, the hero is oh-so-conveniently the lost grandson of the mean cousin who has succeeded Edwina's father.  Secondly, it is oh-so-easy for this Duke to name Mick as his heir, and assume that it will be easy for Mick to prove his claim.  [Such a claim would usually drag on for years, with the Tichborne case being one example.  And there, the claimant had inside help from a member of the family.  Same here, except that Edwina supposedly has no big desire to be a duchess, or does she?].  <br />While I enjoyed the first half of this book (even swallowing the various incongruities initially), I cannot say that I was happy with the ending.  While I love a happy ending, I also want the ending to be realistic.  It is curious, though, that I was willing to accept that the hero in A LONDON SEASON (Joan Wolf) was actually an earl's lost heir, but not so willing to believe the same of the hero of this book.  Perhaps the difference lies in the circumstances - the hero of the former was discovered by his features and by the place of his birth and his mother's maiden name;  there are no such details for THE PROPOSITION's hero to make this believable.  Nor is it easy to believe that the law and polite society would look as kindly on Mick's claim.  Alas, reality intrudes into my fairy tale visions of Edwina and Mick.	2001-09-11
US	50375720	R18QHDHL3X6QTU	082175310X	354066145	The Shattered Rose (Dark Champion, Book 3)	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Great story, a bit marred by weak secondary romance	Well, if Elizabeth Chadwick says this is a great book, it is certainly is worth looking at.  That was how I came (via a Medieval Romance group) to this book, which is so unusual.  Where else will you find an adulterous heroine (unwittingly so), and a hero who accepts his wife's illegitimate child - and then gets pulled up by the Church for doing so?  A fantastic read, full of emotion.  The heroine Jehanne is not always likeable, but boy, does Beverley pull you in.  I think this is her finest book (of those I have read - medieval, Georgian, and Regency).  <br />Just one problem stops it from being perfect.  The secondary romance was sweet at first, and then got downright cloying.   I wanted to kick both participants.  Having said that (and got it off my chest), I recommend that you find a copy of this book and give it a try.  <br />P.S. THE SHATTERED ROSE is one of my keepers, even after downsizing my keeper collection (down to 20, Heyers, Austen and Ellis Peters apart).	2001-09-07
US	50375720	R3UZISBZ2T29HU	0373113609	243818474	Love is in the Cards	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A light funny read	Read the review below (essentially the back cover blurb) to find out what the book is about.  Read this review to find out why you might want to pick this book up.<br />I don't usually write reviews of Harlequin series titles.  I have made one or two exceptions for books with unusual plots or remarkable humor.  In this book, the humor is generated by the donkeys and the dog.  Did I mention that the donkey constitutes himself a protector of the heroine, and buts the hero?  Or that the heroine gets the donkey to cooperate, supposedly by threatening him with the glue factory?  There are also marvellous descriptions of a bus journey on St Vincent (in the Caribbean), plus an exploding volcano.  Not to mention great cooking, and lots of information about agriculture and the economy.  Actually, after reading this book, I felt better informed about the island than I had ever before. <br />Emma Goldrick uses animals as bit players and the island patois to infuse this story about an odd couple with laughter and kindly humor.  I can't count the number of times I giggled out loud.  And for once, I felt that the &quot;locals&quot; were not merely stereotypes nor colorful wallpaper.  A rarity indeed for a Harlequin.<br />On the other hand, this is not a particularly serious read nor a lengthy read (took me about an hour).  Read this book for fun - and to feel yourself at home in a lovely island.	2001-09-06
US	50375720	RVPALAKA8GHDI	0451156056	410185107	Lord Richard's Daughter (Signet)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	One of her better earlier Regencies...	Most of Wolf's early Regencies rate at least 3 stars from me.  This book is a cut above them, with more believable interactions between the couple (even if they meet in a fantastic setting), and no long separations.  The heroine Joanna Crewe is the niece of a duke (her father is *not* the duke, although the blurb on the back of my copy claims this to be the case).  She is realistic about her life, in which her remarkably selfish father sacrifices his wife (almost literally) to his religious zeal as a missionary in what we now call sub-Saharan Africa.  Joanna grows up disillusioned about her father, and determined to preserve her own individuality and her interests.  Her father's death leads almost improbably to the slave markets in Cairo, from where she is rescued by an adventurer/explorer John Champernoun, himself the relative of an earl.  <br />This is the first third of the book.  In the second third, the heroine becomes engaged to a man, because she craves a normal life and she insists in denying to herself her real needs and interests.  She is also marrying the man for his father and his house, as John Champernoun puts it.  Enter the hero, now as earl, after his cousins all die heirless.  Unfortunately for Joanna, the new earl is a close neighbor of her fiance's father.<br />The last third of the book is delightful, in which Joanna is forced to confront her hasty decisions and recognize that she has made a wrong choice based on her fears about John's lifestyle and her own ambivalent feelings about her late father. Her fiance acts honorably and agrees to break off the engagement.  Joanna will marry her true love, the man who will allow her to be herself.<br />This was a pleasant read, far more compelling than two other early Wolfs I read at the same time (FOOL'S MASQUERADE and A DIFFICULT TRUCE).  In intensity of feeling and tightness of plot, it does not quite match A LONDON SEASON but it is a well-knit and fast-moving plot.  The only thing I did not like was the part where Joanna ends up on the slave market - a plot device that has been used by so many writers of purple prose.  Fortunately, that part was quickly done.	2001-09-05
US	50375720	R2HOWMWZEKIYZV	0451157168	871378817	Fool's Masquerade (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Nice book but too many gaps in the plot...	While I enjoyed the old hoary premise (girl pretends to be boy), I found myself irritated by many of the premises and plot gaps.  For example, Valentine's naivete about the dangers facing even a youth travelling with an expensive horse.  The failure of the staff or the castle steward to question her need for a private room, or her refusal to obtain a new wardrobe.  The apparently sudden discovery by the Earl of Valentine's sex (no build up there).  The almost equally sudden decision that they must marry for the sake of propriety. [Come on!].<br />Not to mention the constant harping on Richard III - the name of the Earl &quot;Diccon&quot;, his pro-Richard sympathies, the historical sympathies of his family.  It was hard to believe that the Tudors and the Stuarts would have let such a family survive, after destroying the Nevilles and the Staffords.  The long separation between the hero and heroine (when she decamps to her parents and then goes to London) irritates, as much as the Earl's apparently sudden realization that Valentine is the woman for him.  Here maybe it is Valentine's perception (the story is told in the first person) that is at stake.<br />I have been listing some of the things that irritated me to explain why I gave this book only three stars.  I thought the beginning very promising, and the idea of a cross-dressing heroine (borrowed from Shakespeare and Heyer) very interesting.  However, the rest of the book did not quite live up to this beginning - and Valentine's decisions and motivations seemed rather erratic, not to say, immature.  Yes, there is some humor, and both the hero and heroine are quite attractive.  But frankly I saw Valentine as being way too young and immature for Diccon, Earl of Leyburne.	2001-09-05
US	50375720	R22XXVVEKJ7IJ3	0451156676	881056313	Margarita (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	Warning, a very political Wolf..	Like A DIFFICULT TRUCE (full of Anglo-Irish relations at the turn of the century), this book is filled with the Venezuelan war for liberation - later to become a South American war for liberation under Simon Bolivar.  Margarita, the heroine, is a cousin of Bolivar, and nearly all her family perish in the struggle.  Furthermore, the fate of her country and her people are constantly in Margarita's thoughts.  If you prefer a lighter book (without such real-life references) this might not be the Wolf, or indeed the book, for you.<br />The plot is not that complicated:  the orphaned Margarita arrives in England to live with her maternal grandfather.  He dies suddenly, leaving the new heir (his nephew of the half blood) to deal with his complicated estate and his granddaughter.  The old earl has beggared his lands to build up a magnificent art collection, in part to revenge himself against his heir (whose parents he disliked), and perhaps in part for other reasons.   At his death, the new earl Nicholas discovers that to gain possession of the art collection (and thus to obtain money to restore the family lands to good health), he must marry the young granddaughter.  Margarita is penniless and has no other relations.  She has no choice in the matter, if she is not to fall completely on the new earl's mercy.  The couple are married almost immediately.<br />Herein lies the problem.  In the past two years, Margarita has witnessed the deaths of all those she held dear - from her English-born mother and one of her four brothers in an earthquake to her remaining three brothers and father during the unsuccessful revolt against the Spanish government.  She has witnessed the horrors of war close at hand, been transported to a different country (where she feels cold all the time) and then had her only remaining close relative die in a carriage accident.  Her feelings and emotions are frozen; she simply feels numb.  Furthermore, she realizes that the new earl, now her husband, did not want to marry her and sees her as an intruder.  But they have a normal (read, physical) relationship for all that.   <br />Her inability to respond physically or emotionally to her husband frustrates him.  He returns to his mistress - one in the country, another in town.  [It is not often that authors portray adulterous husbands as heroes].  Nicholas's own emotional development has been warped by his difficult childhood, during which his mother ran away with another man.  Since then, he has provided for his mother but has refused to meet her.  He will not acknowledge that he needs love or that he can need or love a woman.  <br />Margarita eventually learns to respond to him, but only after she has given birth to their son.  She realizes that she loves Nicholas, but he rejects that love - and turns to other women.  At some point, Margarita realizes that he has been unfaithful to her, not just during her pregnancy but after the birth of their son.  She is unable to cope with this knowledge, and with the fact that Nicholas can make sexual demands upon her.  She runs away - taking her baby son - and finds refuge with Nicholas's mother...<br />I liked this book principally for the portrayal of Margarita, a very young and very sheltered 17 year old, pitchforked into a marriage with a stranger at a very difficult time in her life.  The portrayal of the early years of their marriage is beautifully done, as is Margarita's slowly growing confidence and self-assurance (only after she has become a mother).  I could also sympathize with Nicholas, as the young boy who rejected all love after his mother left him, and who tried to prove his independence by flagrant affairs - even though he hurt his wife in the process. [By the way, the blurb on the back is wrong as usual - Margarita's anger with her husband is expressed privately, not publicly and openly].<br />Reading this book is a nice contrast to a far more independent and self-assured heroine Juana Smith in Heyer's THE SPANISH BRIDE.  While I confess to liking Juana far better, I do understand Margarita's position.	2001-09-05
US	50375720	R2HCLY3KYDDJUB	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good but not as strong...	I like Madeline Hunter's romances very much, although BY POSSESSION really put me off with the alpha-plus male (yes, I know men were like that in those days, but I don't read historical romance for 100% reality).  One of this author's trademarks is her attention to historical detail, in that she makes the period more than a backdrop or wallpaper for her plot and her characters.  Both BY ARRANGEMENT and BY DESIGN rank high among my list of &quot;will re-read happily&quot; books.  Hunter does not hesitate to show us morally ambiguous heroes (as in BY ARRANGEMENT) and morally conflicted heroines (as in BY DESIGN).  Nevertheless with only four books to her credit, it is hard to say whether Hunter is a winning name for the long hault.  I certainly hope so - and I have not been disappointed in her more recent books, unlike with so many other authors.<br />Having said that, I have some doubts about THE PROTECTOR, which is her fourth book.  For one, it is somewhat different from her previous books which focused on romance across classes, and even made a marriage between a lord and a serf somewhat believable (although some suspension of disbelief was required).  This fourth book is the story of a landless knight winning the hand of a great heiress, which is a plotline used by other authors such as Elizabeth Lowell (in her medieval trilogy).  Of course, Hunter's story is different - there is a clearer sense of the domestic and international politics, thanks to the setting at the time of the Black Death. <br />After reading the beginning, I wondered why other authors don't use the theme of the Plague (a constant fear in this century, and in later periods) more often.  The beginning is marvellous, with Morvan (brother of the heroine of BY ARRANGEMENT) facing almost-certain death, because he has stayed behind to care for an ill squire.  Not only is the Black Death a problem for him, but England and France are at war (the Hundred Years War) and Brittany itself is torn apart by civil war.  In both wars, the succession is disputed.  This theme is carried to some extent into the heroine's story, where it is uncertain who will ultimately inherit her father's lands.<br />The first part of the story is fantastic.  Although Anna is strong-willed and stubborn, there *were* highly highly independent noblewomen, notably Eleanor of Aquitaine who lived in the 12th century.  And these women certainly experienced problems because they did not fit into the conventional mould.  But then, in the medieval period, women were not as passive as later.  A knight or lord would leave his wife in charge of his manor or castle, and expect her to manage for months or years without him.  Wives were certainly expected to obey their husbands, but a noblewoman whose husband was absent had considerable freedom in some aspects.<br />The problem for me comes in the second half of the book - and I have to admit that it occurred to me only slowly.  Anna's innocence about relations between men and women makes some sense, given a traumatic experience and her decision to enter the convent.  However, her continued innocence even when she has been in charge of the castle for some time makes less sense, unless she has willfully closed her eyes to this aspect of life.  This indeed is hinted at by Morvan and some others, but it is never properly addressed.  <br />Did her naivete about her looks and sexual attractiveness stem from her near-rape by her betrothed, or from the way in which her mother perceived her as less than conventionally beautiful?  This too is not really addressed in the book which focuses more on Anna in the here-and-now.<br />Anna's wish to remain in the convent makes sense, given her nature and her unwillingness to submit to any man. But she would also face problems. Noblewomen in religious orders did have greater autonomy than if they were married, but then they would also have to submit to the abbess or prioress and later to (male) priests and abbots or bishops.  This problem is only partially hinted at, with only Anna's inability to hunt in the cloister discussed as a drawback.<br />Yes, Morvan is rather domineering, but he is actually relatively gentle considering the typical behavior of a man of his day. [For a fine portrayal of the typical noble couple in medieval times, I recommend Roberta Gellis's KNIGHT'S HONOR set in the 12th century.  Medieval histories focusing on the lives of women offer real-life examples as well].  <br />The second half of the book is somewhat disappointing for me.   Yes, the love scenes are nicely done - this is one of Madeline Hunter's strong points.  Anna's rebellions against her husband are realistic (given her nature) but also rather stupid (given the social mores and constraints of the period, plus the very real dangers facing her).  While I felt for Anna, I felt that she was a woman out of place - a 20th century woman, as it were, living in the 14th century.  I am not saying that such women did not exist, but it makes the plot harder to believe.  <br />One of my regrets was that three crucial plot devices - the Black Death, the Hundred Years War, and the Breton Civil War - all became a backdrop for the romance.  From that point of view, the book lost historical interest for me.  The denouement was attractive but not particularly realistic (in historical terms).  Then again, the author was apparently limited by the constraints of the genre she writes in - where the relationship must assume central focus, and where the chronology is limited to a year or so.  After I had time to reflect, I kept comparing the relatively easy resolution of Anna and Morvan's relationship with the more complicated plot lines in Roberta Gellis and Elizabeth Chadwick (the British writer of historical fiction).  In their books, relationships develop, unwind and re-form over years.<br />This is a good read for lovers of medieval romances, but it is definitely more for the American market and for romance readers.Readers who want more history will find this book relatively disappointing.	2001-09-04
US	50375720	R3MU87YQPZ6XND	0867211873	747546454	Knight's Honor	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Historical fiction which takes some liberties...	The story is set in the civil war ensuing from the succession dispute after Henry I died - leaving a daughter Matilda (or Maud) who by her sex was unacceptable to the English barons.  His nephew Stephen (son of his sister) seized the throne.  At the time this story is set, Matilda has ceded leadership of her cause to her son Henry (the future Henry II).  Roger, Earl of Hereford is a partisan of Henry.  <br />First things first:  this is a work of historical fiction, with a strong romantic component; or it is a historical romance which is really heavy on the history.  If you know this period well from reading Cadfael mysteries or Penman's novels, the work goes so much easier.  The author does make assumptions about the reader's knowledge of English history. <br />Roger, Earl of Hereford existed, but his wife Elizabeth did not exist.  While the author admits this, she justifies the creation of Elizabeth on the basis of artistic license.  Readers who want strict historical accuracy will find this troubling.  I am a little concerned myself - I prefer great barons to be portrayed accurately (with correct parentage and spouse), while I allow considerable leeway for minor knights who can be created out of the author's imagination.  From this point of view, the work fails.<br />However, the work has considerable charm in its own right.  The Earl of Hereford is portrayed quite accurately for his time - not necessarily considerate of his wife (in the post-modern way that most medieval heroes are now portrayed) but considered a good husband for all that by his peers.  Yes, he does rape a peasant girl, but that is par for the course.  <br />Elizabeth's concerns are somewhat modern - her fears of losing her individuality and identity seem somewhat shallow given the more pressing physical dangers in that time.  I also don't understand why every medieval author must have the heroine dressing as a woman, and being able to pass off as a woman successfully.  Yes, women did cross-dress, but only under situations of extreme desperation [see Ellis Peter's ONE CORPSE TOO MANY for an example].<br />The ending is inconclusive, in both Roger's friendship with his soon-to-be king being questioned and his relationship with his wife somewhat uncertain.  From both points, the book ends less than satisfactorily - whether you are reading it as a work of historical fiction, or as a historical romance.  Readers of the latter genre want the Happily Ever After ending; readers of the former genre appreciate an epilogue or postscript indicating what happened to the main characters.  To find the fate of Roger of Hereford, you need to go instead to the history books.<br />I rate this book at a 3.7 which is a so-so rating.  I wish I could have rated it higher, since I love this particular period (the beginning of Stephen's reign to the death of Henry II).	2001-09-04
US	50375720	R475KS8OLEVBW	0804118558	621196503	A Breach of Promise (William Monk Novels)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A slightly unusual Perry premise...	Most of Anne Perry's works dwell on the darker aspects of human nature, notably various sexual perversions hidden under the veneer of upper-class and middle-class Victorian society. Some of her recent works especially in the Inspector Monk series have also dwelt upon the status of Victorian women of good families, notably the tremendous barriers imposed to them professionally in medicine. More recently, her books have touched more explicitly upon political issues of the day.<br />This is a slightly unusual Inspector Monk book, in that there is no sexual perversion hidden as the motive for a murder. I shouldn't give away too much of the plot for those who have not read this book. The story is about the fragility of reputation, the impossibly limited choices available to young women in that society, and the ways in which friendships can be misconstrued.<br />One of the most effective scenes for me was where Sir Oliver Rathbone (the defense lawyer) is neatly boxed in by a match-making mother, and the way in which he understands and reads the minds of the women around him. This is one of the reasons I have kept this particular book, above all the others.<br />The story-line is at least initially not as dark as the typical Anne Perry (warning: her works are not for the squeamish), with the first half of the book being about a trial for breach of promise brought against one of the most brilliant young architects who refuses to marry a young woman. Why he refuses to marry her is not made clear until the middle of the story, and it certainly comes as a shock to all concerned. The second half of the book is much darker, in that the murder is driven by the personal greeds of one of the principal characters in the trial. This person's crimes are only revealed right at the end, so in that respect, the book is an amazing cliff-hanger. We don't know if this person was guilty until the very end of the last murder.<br />I have to admit to some problems with this work. Firstly, themotive for the architect's murder is not made clear. One of the problems is that we never get into the mind of his murderer, and that person's past is reconstructed by Monk. From that point of view, this book is not that successful. In the past, I have fully understood why person X murdered person Y (or several persons). In this particular instance, the murder seemed to make no sense. Secondly, I find it hard to believe that while men would be taken in by a cross-dresser, that women would also be unable to identify a cross-dresser. I won't go into more details, but I am surprised that more suspicions were not raised early on.<br />Although the book is one of Perry's best, I have to also admit that her work is extremely dark. I began reading her in a very dark period in my life. Today, I find the earlier works very good but they are also deeply disturbing. Also in murder stories, I prefer a variety of motives when murder is committed, ranging from psychopathic casualness (chilling in of itself) to blind rage to greed or perversion. While Perry has been widening the range of motives for murder in her novels, most of her murders are committed for sexual (and the odd political) reasons. Reading a whole string of Perrys in a row can therefore be quite depressing and even yawn-producing [with the same narrow range of motives trotted out]. From that perspective, she has moved from being an auto-buy to a &quot;wait-and-see&quot;. Perhaps, the surprise element in every series, even a great one, wears out sooner or later, and this has happened with the two brilliant series created by Perry. I still think she has a lot of talent in her; it is just that I no longer resonate with most of her stories.	2001-08-31
US	50375720	R2T4IZ9W3PMPQO	0446404284	70661364	The Virgin in the Ice (Brother Cadfael Mysteries)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	One of the strongest Cadfael mysteries.	First be warned that you have to like historical mysteries, particularly those that take place in medieval times - life was slower back then, and news travelled even slower (depending on the weather, the method of transport, the level of political strife, the condition of roads etc).  All of these conditions are brilliantly evoked in THE VIRGIN IN THE ICE, which contains several surprising subplots, including revelations about Cadfael's past.  <br />Now to the review proper.  If this is the first Cadfael you are reading, you might find understanding some expressions and the society he lives and works in somewhat hard to follow.  Basically, the story is set in the middle of a bitter English civil war between two grandchildren of William the Conqueror.  Cadfael is a Welsh soldier turned monk.  His  chosen specialization in herbs and gardening is combined with his knowledge about warfare (and wounds inflicted by men on each other) and the real world to make him a formidable medieval detective.  Furthermore, as a monk, he is relatively protected (as far as one could be protected) from physical harm on either side.  Cadfael's duties keep him mostly in one town - Shrewsbury and its immediate environs, but he has been known to travel.  While most of the Cadfael mysteries are set close to Shrewsbury (a real town near the Welsh border), in this particular book Cadfael will travel closer to Ludlow, a major castle to the south of Shrewsbury.  During his sojourn, he will have to solve several mysteries, such as the identity of the young woman he finds dead and encased in ice (hence the title), the name of her murderer and his motive, the whereabouts of two noble orphans whose uncle belongs to the opposing side in the war, and the whereabouts of a band of robbers terrorizing the countryside. Oh, and find out what exactly happened to a badly injured young monk.  <br />If you have read Cadfael before, you will still find this book enthralling because of the deft way it weaves politics, religion, petty (and not-so-petty) crimes against a sharply delineated local backdrop.  <br />Some readers find Ellis Peters's endless descriptions of the countryside boring.  I find them enthralling and only wish her publishers would get the maps right in the paperback versions (I have discovered the map for one book in another).  One of the charms of the Cadfael series is the discovery of the Shropshire geography in medieval times, made all the stronger by the fact that the now deceased author was a local.  Geography in virtually every Cadfael story is crucial to the plot, and not just backdrop as it is in so much historical fiction.  And yes, geography - notably the topography and the weather - was very important to medieval people.  It mattered which path you chose in the face of an approaching storm - one choice led you safely (if rather cold) to a place of refuge such as an abbey or a cottager's farm, while another could lead you straight to bandits.<br />Virtually every Cadfael book has young lovers in it, and this is no exception.  Here the young lovers are crucial however to the mystery, and their romance comes about as part of the plot, not incidental to it nor preceding it.  If you don't like any romance in your mystery, I don't think this particular title offends very much - the relationship is hinted at, and is not a major part of the story.<br />This particular title, along with ONE CORPSE TOO MANY, is strongly recommended to lovers of historical mysteries.	2001-08-31
US	50375720	R1WSLRSZNN3XW7	0670172766	188382959	Black Sheep: 2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An entertaining history of upper-class scandals...	If you are interested in the British aristocracy and gentry (and always wondered about the scandals hidden behind the pages of Debrett and Burke) or if you simply like to read about the messy lives of the (dead) rich and privileged, this is a great read.<br />The book tells the stories of numerous scapegraces (nearly all male and mostly titled) over centuries. Yes, there is the notorious Earl of Rochester (he who wrote the witty epitaph about Charles II) and the dancing/acting fifth Marquess of Anglesey. There are some lesser known scapegraces, including an heir to a Duke of Grafton (who fortunately did not inherit the title), a younger son of the war hero Marquess of Anglesey (who lost his leg at Waterloo), and some others. Some families such as the Pagets and the Herveys are well-represented. Others are not. <br />Each noble family has probably had its black sheep, but for reasons of space and possibly fear of libel, the author focused his attention on a few peers and their unsatisfactory offspring. Some of the tales in this volume, including the fate of the Tylney-Long heiress and the charming elder daughter of the Earl of Burlington, are fairly chilling. Others are almost amusing, such as the story of the fifth Marquess of Anglesey (except for his unhappy cousin/wife, the author's maternal grandmother by her second marriage). <br />This is not a deeply reflective book. However, you might wonder to what extent the system of primogeniture, the class divisions in British society, and the legal and social barriers to women (among others) are reflected in the stories of these black sheep. Would William Wellesley-Pole have still managed to make his wife's life a misery in the 20th century? Possibly, although not under the same legal conditions and constraints.<br />If you want a more detailed and thoroughly sourced book, I recommend Lawrence Stone, particularly his books about divorce in the English upper classes. His case studies, while less colorfully written, are almost as heartwrenching - and they cover many minor gentry as well address the woman's perspective.<br />Nevertheless, BLACK SHEEP was a fun read for what it set out to do. The only quibbles I had were the lack of sources (where did Sykes get all his information?).  Also, I wish the book had not limited its coverage to just three centuries.  A prequel volume (medieval and Tudor black sheep) and a sequel (20th century black sheep) would certainly round up the coverage.	2001-08-30
US	50375720	R2RA1G8PJS8X67	0486297853	672615985	Pride and Prejudice Paper Dolls (Dover Paper Dolls)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Bought this for a friend...	Actually, I considered keeping this for myself. Then I reminded myself that I am not that fond of paper dolls. The characters in the book were the major characters - Elizabeth Bennet, Mr Darcy, Lydia, and some others. A variety of costumes was provided for each character. This is a fun book for someone who loves paper dolls (even an adult!) and/or loves Regency-style costumes. A Jane Austen fan like me might like it, but then again might not. There are similiar books in this series, including one on the general Regency period and on the French Empire fashions. A gift likely to delight a young or older collector of paper dolls, or a lover of antique English costumes.	2001-08-28
US	50375720	R1C8JPMF7LCNLA	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Probably the best of the Cynster novels I have read so far..	Unfortunately, I guessed the identity of the villain/murderer at least half the way through.   What I could not understand was why he would want to kill the Cynster found dead at the outset.  So I read to the end to figure that out.<br />Now, to the romance, which is what most romance readers care about.  Well, this is an unusual romance in many ways, which is why it got 4 stars (just barely) from me.  The heroine is a governess who is *not* impoverished, nor lacking connections.  Rather, she is a governess because she chooses to be one.  Her ambition is to travel, which I can fully appreciate, having had that yen in my mid-twenties.  Her choice of older children (young ladies, actually) is understandable, given her past.  Honoria is an accomplished finishing governess, highly sought after and in no hurry to marry.<br />Unfortunately for her, the hero &quot;Devil&quot;, who is the head of the Cynster family, has other ideas.  He is an alpha-plus hero, in all senses of that word.  No, he is not cruel.  He is just totally dominating, very much in charge of his family, very much looked up to by his cousins and the rest of the family.  And very much a rake.  So when Honoria and Devil are caught together in a cottage, her reputation is ruined.<br />Devil decides that not only is he obliged to offer Honoria marriage (because she is a lady compromised by him), but she will suit him very much.  Honoria begs to disagree; she wants to travel, she doesn't care about being compromised, and she doesn't want to marry Devil.  So begins this rather interesting romance.<br />It is not a surprise to say that Devil and Honoria get married, and live happily ever after (I assume), but how they get to the altar is interesting.<br />So why the 4 stars, and not the 5?  Well, for one, I don't relate very well to super-alpha heroes.  I don't mind heroes who get their way by behind-the-scenes manipulation (which some readers and authors detest), but I don't like heroes who tell everyone whatthey should do.  Secondly, I thought Honoria gave up her dreams of travelling to Africa too easily.  For someone who was hell-bent (excuse me) on travelling, she accepts the restraints of marriage really easily.   I would have liked to see at least an insistence that Devil take her to Africa, or allow her to travel on her own once (a la Tallie in Anne Gracie's TALLIE'S KNIGHT).  Thirdly, the mystery element was almost completely lost when I realized who the villain was - and the only mystery remaining was why he wanted to kill the first victim - and whether his grief at the latter's death was genuine. Unfortunately, that theme was not really played up, and the villain came across as a cardboard figure, totally obsessed by his goals and with virtually no depth to him.<br />Having said all this, I should add that this first book in the Bar Cynster series is the best.  The others bored me stiff.	2001-08-22
US	50375720	RY15AJP4VPV12	0373115547	172162414	Secret Admirer	Books	4	21	23	N	N	A good book with unexpected depths...	Susan Napier writes about interesting people and themes;  some of the material she touches upon would fit very well into a larger (fatter) format.  This is the story of a young widow struggling to simultaneously save her late husband's company from a competitor and to acquire a much-needed education in business skills.  At the same time, she is being courted by the said competitor, who she believes thoroughly despises her (after a memorable scene in an elevator where she is caught wearing nothing but a fur coat).  And at the same time, she is getting flowers from a secret admirer, whose name remains unknown. <br />Enough to worry about? Certainly.  Grace, the heroine, is quite memorable - a model with a troubled childhood whose education was cut short, who married young and remained dependent on her husband, and who is now struggling to catch up in all ways. The hero has a troubled past (of course!) but is surprisingly charming for all that.  And he has a big secret!  (Hint, he is a bit like the hero of Jo Beverley's FORBIDDEN). <br />The love scenes between the couple are quite interesting, especially when the big secret is revealed.  I found Grace a little naive, especially considering her lack of concern about her secret admirer who keeps sending her flowers.  But some of her naivete is understandable.<br />This was a good short read, and it rather stuck in my mind (for a Harlequin romance).  I came back to it recently, reading both this book and Beverley's FORBIDDEN in the same fortnight.  Why? Well, there is that common theme, a slightly unusual hero...	2001-08-22
US	50375720	R2PJO56QECXKT1	0451402448	56477257	Uncommon Vows (Onyx)	Books	3	36	42	N	N	Mixed feelings...	I am a Mary Jo Putney fan, and am busy collecting all her books set in the Regeny, not to mention her Silk trilogy and Bride series.  Generally, I admire her inventive plotting, her very interested (and often tortured) heroes and heroines, not to mention her beautiful style of writing.   Unfortunately, I also like some consistency in the way characters think and act - and for medieval romances, I have an especially high standard.<br />I picked this book mainly because it was a medieval by Mary Jo Putney.  Having read two of Jo Beverley's three medievals, I wondered what one of my favorite writers would do with the medieval period.  Unfortunately, although the book is well-written and some of its characters are very intriguing, I cannot recommend this as highly as I wanted to, especially to fans of the medieval period in romance and historical fiction.<br />It is not that the hero is inauthentic.  Yes, he is harsh at times, but he is also a lot kinder than the typical noble of his day would have been [compare how Adrian treats Meriel, who claims to be a Welsh commoner caught in the Royal Forest, with the treatment meted out to serf women and slaves by noblemen in Ellis Peters's Cadfael series].  <br />One of the problems I have with this book is the high rank given to the hero - as Earl of Shropshire.  Yes, there was no earl in Shropshire, given that a great earl (the founder of Shrewsbury Abbey) had died and his descendants had committed treason.  But the earls would have been styled &quot;of Shrewsbury&quot; not &quot;of Shropshire&quot; if an earl had been created from a different family.  Earldoms were not usually granted under the conditions described in the book as well - even allowing for the creation for rival earls.  This for me was one of the first historically inauthentic notes.   I would have preferred to have seen Adrian remain a baron; it would not have lessened the force of the story, and the distance between him (a great baron) and the daughter of a minor knight would still have been considerable.<br />The family name of the heroine is also slightly problematic for me, but this and the title issue are minor problems compared to the way Meriel behaves.<br />I loved the beginning of the story, and the decision to have both the hero and heroine come from strongly religious backgrounds.  The evolution of Meriel from a novice to the sister of a minor knight with his own small manor was indeed interesting.  Right upto the point where Meriel was captured in the Royal Forest, I was with her and the hero.  This is the point where things started to fall apart.<br />I simply could not believe that Meriel would choose to claim herself as a Welsh commoner, rather than a noble lady of Norman birth.  Even in this time (a period of unusual strife), noblewomen who fell into the hands of the opposing side were treated much better than were peasants.  It would have been excusable for Meriel to make the mistake she did (in concealing her identity) if she had just come out of the convent.  But she had been out of the convent for several years.  Not only did her decision make no sense, it actually put her in greater danger.  Even a wicked and brutal baron such as the villain would prefer a good ransom for a young noblewoman to the temporary pleasures of ravishing her.  [Knights and squires were usually held for ransom, and not killed].  Furthermore, Meriel had plenty of time to find out whether the Earl was indeed a wicked man or not, and his actions did not seem to point to him as a wicked man, in the context of *his* times.  Again, if she had been a novice just released from her vows, her inability to judge men would have made sense.  <br />The worst part was when she chose to throw herself into the river, rather than accept an honorable offer of marriage.  Yes, she had been overwrought considering the fate of virgin martyrs, but the Earl was not a pagan, not of an unknown race or family.  Her actions struck me as silly and self-serving, as much as her refusal to acknowledge her real identity was not only silly, but cruel to those who thought her dead.  At this point, I completely lost sympathy for the heroine.<br />The rest of the story was thus an anti-climax.  It is one thing reading a story about a fairly self-centered heroine.  It is quite another thing reading about a heroine who reveals herself to be anything but sensible and thoughtful of others.  Frankly, I did not feel that Meriel deserved Adrian, even though I could not applaud his actions.  Yes, he did not behave well, but he behaved quite well by the light of his times.  And Meriel?  She was simply too stupid to live.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R2B1K64MVGRSF7	0425156877	488840472	My Sweet Folly	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Great start, but goes downhill...	I was just introduced to Laura Kinsale by the website All About Romance which recommended this book and FLOWERS FROM THE STORM. I read that book (challenging in parts and not an easy read emotionally) and then turned to this one. The introduction of the story was fantastic, with the love letter device being introduced and then the story of what was really happening in India to Robert being revealed only just before the end. The ending with the letters was great once again.<br />I loved the scenes showing how a country lady would have access to Lady Melbourne (herself the daughter of a country baronet originally) and through her to her daughter Lady Cowper and thus to Almack's. It was also fun reading about Almack from the perspective of one who was neither impressed by it nor cared very much for the high society in it. And this too from the perspective simply of a young widow who has nothing really to gain or lose except marrying her stepdaughter off suitably. <br />However, the middle of the book was really hard to follow, with too many accidents, too many sub-plots and generally too much of everything. The mystery element was well-done to a point: Why was Robert behaving so oddly? Who was Lander? Was Robert correct in suspecting Lander? But then things began to unravel. Yes, I could understand that Robert could not take Folly (whose real name is Folie) into his confidence. What man would say &quot;I think I am going mad, but I also think I am being driven into madness through poison, and I don't know who is responsible.&quot;<br />Not only does Robert's reticence hurt the plot, but it also prevents the development of a further source of tension. The political element to the poisoning plot simply did not add much to the story. Frankly, a personal vendetta made more sense than a political vendetta (with Robert being used as a guinea pig). An unsavory relationship between Robert's first wife and her relative was hinted at, but we learnt relatively little about his first marriage. Basically, his actions during that time made little sense - such as: why did he not divorce his wife for adultery, or have the marriage annulled? The lack of information on this subject, and the lack of Robert's own reflections on that period (until very late in the story) made Robert seem either infatuated or already half-mad or perhaps both. And then, his writing the love letters to Folly made virtually no sense at all.<br />I don't know how Robert differs from the typical Kinsale hero, having read just two books of hers. I do wish that this book had focused more on the romance of Folly and Robert, and on Robert's first marriage.  As it stands, the first part of the book is great (at least 4.5), but the second part of the book rates 2.5, which averages out to about 3.5 for the entire book.   Definitely not a comfort read, in the same way that I re-read Quick's two books, but sometimes gripping.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R2I108YRM6PNN7	0451404866	818555212	Dancing on the Wind (Topaz Historical Romances)	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Lucien's book tries to do too much..	Well, if you can set aside the unlikely coincidence of one twin falling for another twin (in a different set!), this is a really interesting book. Lucien's past is revealed in his book. You know, I really had no idea that his sister was his twin, even though I knew that Michael (Lord Michael Kenyon of SHATTERED RAINBOWS) was in love with her as a child and that she had died young. A lot of things about Lucien made sense after this revelation.<br />Frankly, I had been interested in this character &quot;Lucifer&quot; of the Fallen Angels ever since I encountered him in THUNDER AND ROSES, which was the first of the Fallen Angels series that I read. Lucien's romance is quite interesting, although it stretches my credulity at times. <br />The story is a complicated one - Lucien is trying to identify the leader of a French spy ring, who is a British nobleman (of course). To this end, he joins a club that styles itself the successor of the Hellfire Club, but whose aim appears to be purely debauchery, unlike the Hellfire's wider political aims. [See my review of Daniel Mannix's book]. At different times and in very different places, he encounters several women who seem to him to be one and the same. He later identifies her, or misidentifies her as a rather repressed young gentlewoman or aristocrat (since she is the daughter of an impoverished earl). However, she tells him that he has mistaken her for her wilder sister, also a twin, who is now an actress. Lucien finds out that there is indeed a twin sister who is an actress, and concludes that he must find that woman to find the lady who both puzzles him and intrigues him. This is the start to an interesting story in which identities switch back and forth, in which the heroine keeps changing her identity and her story, and in which there are several dark secrets. <br />The explicit stepback cover is somewhat unusual for the usual MJP paperback.  However, the cover actually does not do justice to the story, which is about more than the sexual element. One of the key themes in the story is the strength of the twin-bond, and whether that can be successfully challenged by love for a man. That is, will Kit (the heroine) ever put Lucien ahead of her twin, as he wants and hopes?<br />This book has a lot of intrigue in it, but it is mostly related to the main story, the romance of Kit and Lucien and the important sub-plot - the exposure of the spy ring. Or perhaps I have that the other way around. From that point of view, the story is a lot more satisfying than PETALS IN THE STORM, where the political story took precedence of the romance, and where a secondary character took up most of the space that should have been occupied by the hero.<br />The book rates at 3.8 (rounded up to 4 stars).  I wanted to rate it higher, since I thought Lucien was pretty cool and I thought Kit was an intelligent heroine (upto a point when she starts making some really stupid decisions).   Unfortunately I did not like the twin theme, which I thought too much on top of the Hellion club and the espionage theme.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R3EOD0FH3QRXP7	0451403673	741150351	Thunder & Roses	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The best of the Fallen Angels series..	In my opinion, this is Mary Jo Putney's best book. I may be prejudiced, considering that this is one of her first books that I read. However, the story and its main characters stand up well to time, and I can recall nearly all of the plot - which means that this is a definite keeper for me. The book is marked by immaculate research, and an unusual setting - a Welsh estate dependent on mining - and an unusual heroine - a Methodist teacher of no particular family. [For another unusual heroine, I recommend the far darker FLOWERS FROM THE STORM by Laura Kinsale where the heroine is a Quaker and the daughter of a mathematician].<br />Nicholas and Clare are both unusual. He is the half-Gypsy earl who has had a bitter first marriage, and whose relationship with his late grandfather is complicated, to say the least. [Find out more as the book progresses]. Clare offers herself to him to save the valley and its inhabitants. The earl strikes an interesting bargain - he wants not her body (although he is interested in her) but her reputation. For a Methodist teacher, this is a hard blow indeed. <br />There are two major subplots. One involves the villainous manager of the mines run by Lord Michael Kenyon, an absentee owner who leased the land for the mining operations from his friend Nicholas. The other plot is about Lord Michael himself, but I would give away the whole story if I said much more. What Mary Jo Putney does is to bring together the romance, and these two major sub-plots seamlessly at the end. And the villain, if he be a villain, is not quite whom you suspect and for the reasons assumed.<br />What else did I like about this book? The penguins on the estate (did you know that Nicholas had penguins?!), the notorious billiards room scene, the ballroom scene at the Duke of Candover's, the duel between Nicholas and Michael which is heart-breaking (and test the loyalties of their friends), and the amazing interactions between Clare and the other members of her congregation.<br />Read this book. You won't regret it. It is not light, but it is fascinating, and you will come out of it learning more about mining in Wales and about Welsh Methodism than you ever thought.<br />And honestly, this is my favorite Putney, the one book of hers I would keep in my library if I had to cut down my romance collection (as I might have to soon!).  The book rates at 4.9, with all the lovely twists and turns, and is even more appealing to me than her more recent SILK AND SHADOWS.  Bravo, Mary Jo Putney!	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R1QA7P3U7BOZF8	0553289322	736880816	Scandal	Books	3	15	17	N	N	One of Quick's earlier books...	SCANDAL was probably one of the first Amanda Quick books I read (before all her heroines started intermingling into one &quot;Amanda Quick heroine&quot; in my mind). Recently I picked up another copy of this same book and decided to re-read it. It was a good thing coming back to an early Quick after having given up on reading her for many years.<br />The plot is essentially the same: A young lady of good birth with a scandal in her past and with a somewhat unrestrained tongue (at least in the use of swear-words) meets up with a mysterious stranger. Except that she has been corresponding with this man for some time under his name, and not his title. Except that the man is out for revenge against her father and indeed her entire family. One of Quick's trademarks (for me at least) is that she quickly identifies what drives the hero - usually a past family or personal disgrace, coupled sometimes with financial ruin. If you don't like guessing at the hero's motives, this Quick habit is great. On the other hand, it makes some plot devices fairly obvious. <br />In this book, the mysterious stranger is an Earl whose father was ruined by Emily's father. We never quite learn what Simon (the Earl) had planned for Emily, but his plans rapidly change. He realizes that Emily is a financial and business genius, and that she is keeping her family afloat. He will marry Emily, and in so doing, revenge himself by ruining her family financially. After all, after they are married, Simon can forbid Emily to help her father and brothers. Or can he? <br />There are some other Quick trademarks - loyal servants, a genuinely evil villain, a relative who is absolutely indifferent to the heroine's plight. At least, I have come to think of them as Quick trademarks. That does not mean that the story is not interesting. It is - if only because Emily deliberately or inadvertently furthers Simon's plans for revenge and then neatly foils them. Her reasoning is that revenge is pointless, that innocentpeople will be hurt, and the greatest villains of the piece were their fathers. But she cannot have her own father hurt, and Simon's father is dead.<br />Is this a boring book? I did not find it boring. The book, like all of Quick's book, requires a certain suspension of disbelief, in that Quick creates an alternate Regency world in which women are permitted to engage in business (and have their business skills appreciated by men, if only for the sake of profit), in which a young lady can say &quot;Bloody hell&quot;, in which an impoverished young earl can accumulate both power and wealth rapidly (without the sources of his wealth being completely clear). In some ways, Amanda Quick's heroes and heroines are thoroughly modern people transplanted to the Regency era, in other ways they are not. For example, Emily is still ruined when she elopes with a young poet; Quick does not go that far in ignoring Regency conventions. <br />The reason that some people love Quick's books is because her heroines are independent women with modern ideas, and with a fierce drive to prove themselves equal intellectually to the hero and other men. They are frequently learned, always intelligent (if sometimes naive) and always ready to be seduced by the hero. The hero is always a gentleman, almost always rich from the outset and frequently mysterious, but always skilled at the sensual pleasures. On the other hand, some of Quick's most faithful readers have deserted her, precisely because her books all began to sound alike. <br />I find her earlier books and middle period books to be the most readable. <br />Personally I prefer SCANDAL to some of her other books published in the early to mid 1990s. There is less intrigue in this book than her typical work, and less drama. The heroine is once in danger, but she is never kidnapped. And there are only three villains in this book, although the villainy of two of the men consists mostly of egoism and extreme selfishness. If you like a quieter read, try this one. It has only a few sensual scenes, but it is a read with its own charm.<br />I rated this book at about a 3.4, which is slightly less than the grade assigned to DESIRE, one of her two medievals.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R2SRBN9L2NOMHD	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Complicated book, not light reading...	This is *not* a comfort read, nor is it a conventional romance. For one, the romance takes decidedly second stage to the illness and recovery (if it be recovery) of the hero. The hero is a dissolute young nobleman who thinks nothing of getting a married woman pregnant and then fighting a duel with her husband. On the other hand, he is also a brilliant mathematician who is co-authoring a paper with a Quaker mathematician. It is this capacity that he meets the heroine, although she makes only a small impression on him, given his other concerns.<br />We meet the hero again in very different circumstances, when he is confined to a lunatic asylum, and where the heroine Maddie is trying to get him to respond to her. She discovers that he can still understand mathematical formulae, but that his language skills are gone - he cannot understand words nor speak making any sense. No wonder his relatives think him insane. We also learn that although this particular asylum is relatively benign (it has been founded by a Quaker cousin of Maddie), there are still darker elements, stemming from the love of power and brutish ignorance shown by the keepers of the patient. Laura Kinsale draws this portrait pitilessly (compare her portrait with that of the insane asylum in Putney's WILD CHILD) - and asks us to consider what happens to people who are not insane but who are then placed in an asylum with all their freedoms taken away. For the hero, there is some justification to think him mad, but there were surely many women placed in asylums by their relatives for being too independent, too &quot;unruly&quot; or exhibiting behavior thought deviant for that time.<br />The story is about Christian's struggle to regain his personal freedom and to keep his legal freedom (he has not been formally declared insane). To this end, he is ruthless - he forces Maddie to marry him using strategems that are revealed to her much later. Unfortunately for her, this marriage means expulsion from the Quakercommunity, a punishment that means much to her and far more than any material wealth and rank she might gain by this marriage. What is worse - is that Christian's wealth and freedom are based on tenuous foundations.<br />The denouement is brilliant. By the end, Christian regains some power of speech and some control over his actions, but he will clearly never be the man he once was. Which might not be such a bad thing, considering some of his past actions. Maddie's decisions through the novel are impelled both by consideration for Christian and his feelings, and her own feelings of charity for all humanity, stemming from her strong Quaker faith. <br />The major problems with this book is firstly that it is so complex that it might put off people expecting a straight-forward if angst-ridden romance, and secondly that the style of speech affected by the heroine and her father (Plain Speech) can be even more off-putting. <br />Finally, this book is not really a straight romance, and should not be classified as such. Unfortunately the bare-chested man on the cover does nothing to dispell that illusion - which is unfortunate. People picking up this book for its cover would receive a shock when they open the pages. I wish the publishers had been more honest and have chosen either a neutral cover or a more honest cover. Laura Kinsale should sell on her name alone, not her covers.<br />I rate this book on average at 4.5, since there are some slow and puzzling parts which keep it from a higher grade.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R2PACMTJEJKTJ7	0553561537	840434615	Desire	Books	3	14	14	N	N	An unusual Quick setting...	If I have things correct, this is one of the only two medievals that Amanda Quick has written and the more successful of the two. Again, you have to understand that historical authenticity is not what Quick is after. She creates an alternate Regency world (almost a costume romp) and here, an alternate medieval world. <br />The story is that of a landless knight who also is burdened by his illegitimacy. He is offered the chance to win the hand of a local heiress, whose estate consists of one small island. The heiress Clare is however slightly unusual in that she has developed the island's flower industry into production of perfumes, salves and other scented goods which are luxury items and highly profitable items. <br />The courtship of Clare by Gareth (the Hellhound of Wyckmere, as he is called) has its riotous moments, including the way in which Clare finally chooses her husband from among two suitors. There is also the notorious chicken blood scene (where the bride is given vials of chicken blood by her women friends and attendants to compensate for her apparently lost virginity). What follows is equally riotous - Clare scatters all the blood in a rage on the marriage bed, somewhat overdoing the illusion. <br />There is also a romantic young boy who wants to be a knight, and a love-struck minstrel afraid of his former master. And there is the inevitable treachery, the attack on the island, the deceptions and the ultimate triumph of true love and chivalry.<br />While the identity of a villain came as something of a surprise to me, I found the shift in tone from the middle of the book to the end somewhat jarring. The first two-thirds of the book were semi-farcical, a light-hearted romp. The last third was significantly darker, with the revelation of some pleasant secrets but also a few more unpleasant secrets. Also, the introduction of the themes of black magic and spells were somewhat jarring, given the emphasis on reason and rationality in the beginning and middle. [Reason and rationality were actually interpreted differently in the Middle Ages; most people would have believed in magic, black magic, spells and sorcery].<br />For these reasons, I give Desire a 3.5 instead of a higher grade. The book is a comfort read , but it is not an instant re-read for me. Nor did I spend my time puzzling over motives, the dynamics between the hero and the heroine (as I did for Hunter's THE PROTECTOR which also features an heiress forced to marry a landless knight).  Those darker deeper threads which keep me awake a bit is what I look for in four and five star reads.  Not that I don't appreciate a nice comfortable read such as SCANDAL, or any of Quick's earlier books.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R1ZNYTDB3R0HCS	0451404459	492297334	Petals in the Storm (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A let down compared to THUNDER AND ROSES	If you came to this book, after reading THUNDER AND ROSES (the story of Nicholas and Clare) and THE BARGAIN (the rewrite of THE WOULD-BE WIDOW) in which Rafe, Duke of Candover plays an important part, you will find this book to be a let-down in many ways.  I suppose it is hard to satisfy all persons, and much in the way that many Jo Beverley fans felt let down by Rothgar's own book (DEVILISH), many of Putney's fans felt disappointed by this book.  Why? Well, the Duke of Candover somehow does not seem the same man that he appeared to be in the other books.  The heroine is certainly right for him, but unfortunately there are two problems.  For one, the political/intrigue part of the story is so strong that it completely overwhelms the romance, both in terms of space allotted in the book and in terms of interest level.  Quite frankly, I spent more time trying to follow who was duping whom, rather than worrying about the love triangle in this book.  Which brings us to the second problem.  The love triangle.  Is Margot really in love with Robin and he with her?  Why does Robin get such a major part in this story? Yes, he is an interesting character (and I look forward to reading his own story ANGEL ROGUE).  But alloting so much time to him and his complicated relationship with Margot means all the less time spent on the relationship between Margot and Rafe.<br />Like another reviewer, I have no doubt that she chose the right man.  I only wish that the book had been more about the couple.  I also wondered how their love as teenagers (virtually) was sustained well into adulthood.  I find the theme of separated young lovers sometimes hard to believe, given that people change over time.  If Rafe and Margot had been allowed more time together in the story, this theme could have been developed more - especially how Rafe adjusted to the new Margot, and not just her &quot;dark secrets&gt;&quot;	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R14O1B9BDOTUUM	0451406141	162145347	Shattered Rainbows	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Angst-ridden but hopeful story...	If you encountered Michael in THUNDER AND ROSES, you were kept up wondering &quot;what happened to this man afterwards? Well, SHATTERED RAINBOWS is Michael's story, and it is a sequel to the book I mentioned, and a prequel (sort of) to ONE PERFECT ROSE. It helps to read these books in order, although each book has plenty of information so that it can be read alone. But reading both TAR and OPR (prequel and sequel) helps the reader understand Michael's anguish both over his terribly unhappy childhood and his actions towards his friends, especially Nicholas (the hero of TAR). If you liked Nicholas, you will find his mostly-absence (and the absence by and large of the other Angels) disappointing. The story is firmly about Michael and Catherine, with even Catherine's late husband and her daughter playing very secondary roles.<br />This is not a comfort read; few of Mary Jo Putney's books are, in my opinion. SHATTERED RAINBOWS is particularly heartbreaking and angst-ridden, a book about wrong choices, regrets and repentance. If you are looking for a light read, do not pick this book up.<br />I loved the first half of the book. Unfortunately, I found the last part of the book to be too conventional - with the wicked villain, the abduction of the heroine, the near-death experience of the hero and heroine. I have found this a growing theme in Mary Jo Putney's book (with the heroine now often dragged off to some tower!), and find that irritating. That ending is why I assigned this otherwise marvellous book four stars, and not five. I know that she can write unconventional endings, and I wish that she would write more of those. <br />Read this book to find out if Michael can learn to trust a woman, given his unhappy history, and to find out how he repairs his relationships with his friends and his elder brother. You will find Catherine fascinating as well. But again, this book is not a comfort read (unless your idea of comfort is very different from mine).<br />The first partof the book was superb, the middle part very good, but I lost interest when the villain was revealed on the island.  Which is why the book rates 4.3 instead of the higher grade I would have assigned it (closer to THUNDER AND ROSES) based on the first two parts.	2001-08-20
US	50375720	R2ZTE6QLB0FCEU	014025157X	226544947	The Making of Pride and Prejudice (BBC)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	What can I say that has not been said?	This is a slim little volume, and you might be slightly disappointed when it arrives.  But it is packed with information (in small type) and with fascinating pictures and snippets of information.  Want to know how the actors and actresses were chosen and what problems they had with Regency English? This is the book.  Want to know how the costume designers found the materials to make those lovely dresses, and where they got their inspiration?  Again, this is the book.  Want to know how to make a Regency costume? Sorry, this book cannot help.  But you can get pointers by reading the pages on costume design.  <br />If you are a fan of Colin Firth and/or Jennifer Ehle, or simply love the BBC-A&amp;E production of Pride and Prejudice (1995), you should obtain this book.  Just reading this book once gives you so much information about the series, and a better understanding of how this production came about.  Of course, you might want to keep the book instead of passing it on to a friend (sorry, Candace!).  My only regrets are a) that I did not order this book earlier, and b) that I did not order two copies of this book while Amazon was having its free shipping deal.  Candace will get her copy later.	2001-08-18
US	50375720	R32L9BNSDFR3BL	0373511507	541268923	Larkswood Legacy (Reader's Choice)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great traditional read, with two interesting sub-plots..	If you like traditional Regencies (read = no pre-marital sex, no heavy bedroom scenes), you might like this latest book from Nicola Cornick.  This is the first book of hers I have read, so I have nothing to compare it against.   The story is that of a young widow, badly treated by her in-laws and their friends, who finds happiness through reconciliation with her older sister and by finding new friends and a husband.  As I said, there are some interesting sub-plots.  The main story is that of the young woman Annabella St Auby (that is her married name) and how she falls for Sir William Weston, a naval captain who has retired to take charge of the family estates.  But the two most powerful subplots is the story of Annabella's past life including her troubled relationship with her sister Alicia, Lady Mullineux, her father the late Bertram Broseley, and her husband the late Francis St Auby.  What is nice is that while Annabella is by no means a scheming vixen, she is not perfect.  She marries her first husband for the wrong reasons, and realizes her mistake too late.  She confronts her suitor with some unwelcome gossip and nearly alienates him for good.  <br />The flashbacks are presented through Annabella's memories and through conversations with her sister's friend Lady Kilgaren.  <br />Beside this story of a troubled family history, there is also an exciting story of naval intrigue and society pettiness, whereby William Weston is made the scapegoat for another man's crimes by a jealous society miss and her supporters.  Some people might find this subplot excessive, others might find it not exciting enough - especially since the villains are clearly identifiable as such.  However, I found this subplot perfectly in keeping with the rest of the story.<br />Why then did I award it only four stars, instead of five?  For one, this book was compelling, but not enough to make me want to read it all in one sitting (my criteria for a five-star read).  It was slow in intervalshere and there.  Sometimes I found Annabella and her exclamations a little too much.  <br />I did like William Weston and his friends, and would love to read a book which narrates the stories of James and Alicia Mullineux, and Marcus and Caroline Kilgaren (she, a lady who is knowledgeable about medieval architecture and was taught by her historian father who actually recognized her great potential).<br />The book rates about a 4.4.   I would have rated it higher except for the minor flaws, and the fact that I found both Alicia and Caroline more interesting than the heroine.	2001-08-13
US	50375720	RZLUFL37YRX4G	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A relative disappointment...	I tried really hard to like this book, I tried.  Honest.  Mary Balogh is one of my favorite authors, and usually an auto-buy.  But I passed by this book (after reading it via a friend).  Why? Well, the book simply does not have the same magic as her earlier and (usually) shorter works.  The story works for most reviewers, and it is not a bad book.  It just cannot compare to her best, which deserve every one of the five stars I give them.<br />The story is one that has been recycled from THE SECRET PEARL, a book that brought tears to my eyes.  Yes, the hero is an intriguing character, but he did not stay in my mind, unlike Balogh's other dukes, such as the Duke of Bridgwater.  The heroine's decision to become his mistress seemed puzzling, given that she surely had other options, such as revealing her identity to him or to others [no further spoilers].  <br />If you are new to Balogh, I certainly don't want to put you off this book.  And if you are a die-hard Balogh fan, you will buy this book, whatever the reviews.  My own perspective is that Balogh has written some great books (and I like nearly all her shorter Signet Regencies), but this is not among the greatest.  Hence, the measly three stars - especially since I had such high hopes for a once-a-year hardback.	2001-08-11
US	50375720	R25RZ2DI2T4QJH	0061002593	202333446	Venetia	Books	5	50	50	N	N	Admir'd Venetia...	I am biased.  I love this book, and have loved it since I first discovered it.  Yes, it is a late Heyer, with all that entails (older hero and heroine, less swashbuckling with Heyer in fact poking fun at a young fire-eater, sometimes slow).  But on the other hand, it has all of Heyer's best features:  humor, wit and irony; an exquisite sense of time and place; wonderfully lyrically descriptions of the North; very realistic descriptions both of the lifestyle of a middle-aged rake and of the uncomfortable road journeys of the day (and the discomfort such journeys could inflict).  And can I say - I love the literary references, the brother who is a bookworm (and who insists on reading even after he is in bed recovering from an accident), the wryly realistic attitude of the heroine towards all men and particularly her brothers,  the realistic attitude that she also holds towards her lover.  It is less poignant than A CIVIL CONTRACT (which is also a strongly realistic Heyer) but which some detest for the less-than-attractive heroine and for what they see as Heyer's snobbery.  <br />This is not a tale of high adventure, and yes, Heyer has written that type, particularly in her earlier years.  It is a tale of a beautiful young woman who has nevertheless resigned herself to spinsterhood and to life as the hostess for her younger brother who is unlikely to marry.  Into the neighborhood however comes a rake, who is a slightly unlikely figure in that he is not handsome nor appealing at first sight.  But he is attracted to Venetia and she to him, perhaps united by their shared sense of the ridiculous. [Warning: Do not read this book on public transportation or in public libraries, if you do not want to draw attention to yourself].<br />The story shifts from the North of England to London, and back to the North again.  Unlike most of Heyer's heroines, Venetia wants no part of high society or London life;  her great desire is to return to her own area and to life with her dear, wicked rake.<br />As I said, you need to be able to expect a book that is sometimes slow, sometimes full (perhaps over-full) of literary references.  And definitely to possess a sense of the ridiculous of the type shared by Damerel and Venetia.  Don't expect any grand adventures, but the story of a couple who definitely know their minds - and especially a strong, independent but not feisty heroine.<br />This is one Heyer that has remained at the top of my list (along with FREDERICA) for nearly 20 years.  It has followed me from bedroom to bathroom and into the bathroom.  I even have a favorite edition, the one with the pink cover.  Despite my bias, I believe that this book is worth a read for anyone fond of Regency romances or who appreciates a good read.	2001-08-11
US	50375720	R3D90VBTYYNWY8	0451140451	710723668	A London Season (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Outstanding...	even though the heroine is remarkably self-centered!  I read this book, and promptly re-read it; it was that good.  The basic plot has been outlined by other reviewers.  What made this work for me was <br />1) seeing the characters grow up, fall in love, mature, and resolve their difficulties.  I don't usually like childhood sweetheart stories, but this was fantastic.<br />2) the remarkable hero and heroine.  Yes, Jane is sometimes headstrong and almost always self-centered.  But you can really feel her love for David, even as she herself realizes it.  And the hero? Well, a gorgeous man is always fun to read about, especially when he is not conceited about it.  Joan Wolf is also shrewd in that she portrays David having an affair with a married woman; he is not perfect, but he doesn't want Jane to know about it.<br />3) the stunning authenticity.  I am not a horse person, but I felt that I was there in the stables, on the training grounds, and at the races.  The same thing with the London season.  And Wolf's awareness of the tremendous obstacles between hero and heroine is realistic, as is the initial solution planned for the couple.  [This book, I should warn, has some surprises about people].<br />Find this book, if you can, and read it please.  Actually, I would recommend nearly all of Wolf's earlier novels.  She packs so much into a thin little Signet Regency, it is simply unbelievable.  In terms of intensity of feeling, she reminds me of Carla Kelly, Mary Jo Putney (who writes longer books), and Mary Balogh.  But her heroes are not usually angst-ridden, and the poignancy in Wolf's stories (if any) is well under control.	2001-08-10
US	50375720	R2SX3XFZ44N74	0446605344	843419750	The Gamble	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Don't get me wrong....	I love this book, the first one by Joan Wolf that I bought.  I still re-read occasionally.  I adore Georgie and Philip.  But I also have some serious problems with this book, which I rate at about 3.5.  So why the low score, if I have re-read this book several times?<br />Here's why: 1) As I read more and more Regency romances (including those by Wolf), I get less and less tolerant of heroines (or for that matter, heroes) who do stupid things.  Being naive and innocent is one thing, failing to reveal information about something when you have clearly been warned is quite another thing.  Unfortunately, Georgie Newbury, the rather interesting heroine, falls down in this department.  Not only does she begin by doing a remarkably silly thing (but a naive action, perhaps), but she later commits several wilful actions which either place her in danger or her sister in danger.  That includes the action which brings about the denouement (where a man is killed).<br />2) There is so little about the hero that I found this book frustrating.  Yes, there is a bit about his unhappy childhood, his early debauchery under the tutelage of his father, and his rather colorful way of acquiring a fortune, to put it mildly.  But I got these same things so much better in Heyer's THESE OLD SHADES.  The problem is that Philip says that he is not a fit husband for Georgie, but fails to explain why.  Also, his explanation when it occurs is not that satisfactory.  Yes, his reputation is bad, but much of it is owing to his unusual adolescence and his struggle to survive, when his father dies.  <br />3) A lot of problems that develop between the hero and heroine are owing to false communication or simple miscommunication.  Georgie fails to tell Philip about certain vital meetings and threats, which makes her too-stupid-to-live in my opinion (or remarkably silly and headstrong, at the least).  She also has an old flame visiting her, when her husband clearly objects and when she is warned by others about this.  Really, I started to dislike Georgie at times for actions such as these.  [Not that you have to love a heroine to find her story intriguing].<br />4) The heroine deliberately puts herself in danger to attempt to trap a dangerous man, one whose identity she is unsure of and who has nearly killed her before.  If she put herself in danger to save someone else, that would be a different issue.  Her motivation is not that, it seems to be more of a childish &quot;see what I can do by myself.&quot;  <br />OK - now for the good things about this book and why it is a keeper for me.<br />First, despite Georgie's headstrong ways, I rather liked her (mostly).  The first-person narrative helps draw the reader in, although it can be uncomfortable at times (as in her painful wedding night).  Second, the hero Philip is a very intriguing character.  I wondered about his him and his relationship to some persons of definitely evil character.  Third, Georgie's affection for her younger sister and her nanny is charming, as is her determination to find a suitable home for both of them.  And no, she will not consider a marriage to a man she detests - which is why she arrives in London in the first place. <br />Fourth, I rather liked Catherine (a secondary character) and her little romance.  I wished I knew more about her love interest;  his story sounded very interesting.  [Such as:  what was his first marriage like?  Did he have children with his wife? What was his relationship with his family like?].<br />There are several strong, if not particularly atractive characters, including a peer of very bad reputation, Philip's dragon aunt (Catherine's mother) and sundry minor characters.  The story takes place mostly in London or at Philip's country estate, but Wolf also takes a look at the seedier side of society life, not to mention the criminal under-class.<br />Despite its many flaws, I would still recommend THE GAMBLE.  Just be aware that you will want to knock some sense into Georgie half-way through the book, and that you will be left wondering about the hero.	2001-08-10
US	50375720	R1CWNLP2JYFU71	0373311079	156168865	Cockermouth Mail (Regency Romance)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	If you like Diane Farr, Georgette Heyer and Sandra Heath...	Try this marvellous adventure of a set of coach passengers stranded by bad weather.  The heroine is a governess travelling to her new post, and short of money.  She must borrow her inn expenses from another passenger, a former soldier who has just left the army and who is travelling in his uniform, having nothing else to wear.  [OK, that might boggle the imagination but...]  Throw in some wonderful travelogue, insights into the other passengers that remind me of Heyer's THE CORINTHIAN (why? you will soon see why?) and of Dicken's THE PICKWICK PAPERS.  Yes, there is a villain travelling with the party, but who is the villain.  I could write more on this marvellous story, but won't for fear of spoiling it for you.  <br />Warning - there is no physical intimacy (read = bedroom scenes) in this very traditional Regency.  Of all the books recommended to me by my reading group, I found this book and the works of Diane Farr the most worthwhile as a slight change from Georgette Heyer.<br />The book rates a 4.9 in my opinion (comparing it to other Regency romances and Regency historicals that I have read recently).  Fantastic story, great setting, and a thrilling adventure.  Plus a romance.  What else could you want?	2001-08-08
US	50375720	RG3WCC6AYYNWZ	0440234573	380006360	Midnight Pleasures (The Pleasures Trilogy)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Ok for a summer read (rates at 3.1) ...	I am picky about my Regencies and historicals, although I forgive more errors in the latter. The book was a pleasant read for a summer evening, but no more than that. While there was nothing seriously wrong with either the hero and heroine (in terms of liking them), I could not get involved with either of them. And yes, I have liked flawed heroes, even with misgivings. The irrational behavior of the hero has been discussed by others. I found his refusal to share his fears with his wife hard to take, even though I was aware that Sophie certainly knew about the childhood trauma he had undergone.<br />The worst problems I have with Eloisa James's books are 1) her total lack of knowledge about the peerage and how it functions (or for that matter, how the British government chooses diplomatic representatives in the Regency period), and 2) her so-so endings. I won't go into details in the first, because those who know about this kind of stuff would find the book (especially the first few chapters) frustrating. I nearly threw the book down, and picked it up again only because I was intrigued by a linguist heroine.<br />Most readers don't care about such details, but rather about the drama or lack thereof in the story. Here, I am sorry to say that the book did let me down. There were many fine threads woven into the story, but they all seemed to unravel. For example, the tension between the local Welsh and the English; the presence of French deserters in the country; the discovery of a mysterious young French nobleman; the revelation of the identity of another young woman; and so forth. I would have liked to see those threads tied together, but none of these seemed relevant. Even the Ottoman theme was ho-hum, in that it did not really serve any purpose in the plot, apart from allowing the heroine to display her language skills (so what?).<br />....	2001-08-07
US	50375720	R1N5Z4ST6WHQOD	0553583549	759987396	The Protector (Medievals)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Worthy sequel to BY ARRANGEMENT	The Black Death is the catalyst for the English mercenary knight Morvan's arrival at a Breton coastal stronghold, and his subsequent interaction with its lady, Anna de Leon.   But the political setting for this story is not just the Hundred Years' War (a struggle for control of the French throne between England and France).  The key to the story is a local power struggle over the succession in Brittany, one of the many semi-independent duchies that make up the feudal kingdom of France.  Since Brittany is on the coast, its control is crucial to both the French and the English.  <br />I don't want to give away key plot elements (for those of you who have not read the other reviews).   But readers should keep the political story in mind as they read the book.  Without it, the actions of the king, of Anna herself, and of other characters make little sense.  [I also recommend taking a look at Madeline Hunter's website for further information].  <br />Enough on the background. On to praise for the book, but where should I begin?  This is a wonderful and thoroughly well-crafted sequel to my favorite medieval romance (BY ARRANGEMENT).   Readers of Hunter have eagerly awaited this book, especially since the more knowledgeable fans know that she wrote Morvan's story first.   This book more than meets my expectations for a good read this summer.  I have to say that the published description didn't make the book sound very exciting, which is a bit unfortunate - the book kept me up until 3 AM (an automatic 4 stars therefore, at least).  <br />The story begins with Morvan facing a likely death from the Black Death.   During this phantasmagoric time, he meets the one woman who can turn him from thoughts of regaining his ancestral home and family honor.   Unfortunately, the lady has other ideas .   I can't give away any secrets by saying that Morvan and Anna do get married (since this is expected in a romance).  But their courtship takes unexpected turns, as does their marriage.<br/>What I liked about this book: 1) I don't usually like alpha-male characters, but Morvan somehow crept through my defenses (as he cuts through those of court ladies).  Must be those sparkling black eyes.  Well, a fantastically handsome hero is easy to dream about - and his dominating ways make some sense given the dangers faced by Anna and her household.  <br />2) The heroine is remarkable.  This is not the place to discuss whether Anna's actions and beliefs are really anachronistic.  Her desires, fears, and needs seemed ageless to me - they boiled down to the desire for \\"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\\" as she defined them, and not as society or her overlord defined for her.<br />3) Hunter has her usual skill in weaving historical details into a rich tapestry of sights, sounds and smells.   I am no medievalist, but I have detected no errors in her settings - and I know (from writing to her) that she takes considerable pains to get the details right but not too overwhelming.  I do wish that she would cut out the \\"Aye\\" and \\"Nay\\" in her dialogue.  Since the rest of the dialogue is modernized, I find these words a bit more jarring as I keep reading and re-reading.<br />4) Hunter is very creative in her love scenes.  As it happens, in this particular book, the physical relationship is not consummated until the wedding night, but there is plenty of sensuality and \\"hot stuff\\" before then.  And we learn enough to realize that Morvan is a consummate seducer and is used to getting his way with sweet talk... which makes subsequent developments all the more interesting.  The love scenes, while detailed, are not quite as explicit as in BY ARRANGEMENT - although there is plenty going on.  <br />5) The motivations of the hero and the heroine are quite credible.  Anna wants to live life on her own terms, and initially, she will not accept a loveless marriage anymore than she will accept a marriage in which she is anything but an equal (or the superior).  Morvan wantsboth the woman and the riches she represents, but on his terms.  The battle of the sexes between them draws the reader right in - all the way to the delightfully surprising end.<br />6) The flaws of the main characters make the story more suspenseful, by raising the stakes in certain situations and by shifting the reader's sympathies in other situations.  [Put yourself in Morvan's place when he rescues Anna in the stream, for example].  Morvan's love for Anna does not change his innate character, and he must in fact work on some of his flaws before his marriage will be truly happy.  And Anna herself can let stubbornness do her in, and lead her into some hair-raising actions.  Her capacity for risk tolerance (to put it mildly) is far higher than that of her husband and their household.  She also underestimates potential dangers at times, due to her limited world-experience.<br />The pairing of two nobles as hero and heroine is a bit unusual for Hunter.  Her first three books have featured cross-class romances, which I have come to identify as Hunter's special area.  By contrast, this fourth book features a landless knight marrying a great heiress.   While this story works beautifully, I look out for (and recommend) Hunter's books in part because of her cross-class romances.  I am not sure if Hunter has decided to move into the \\"mainstream\\" of medieval romance plots.<br />I am delighted that more readers are discovering Hunter. As for the problems that some readers detect, yes, there are flaws.  Unlike in BY ARRANGEMENT, we read little about the needs and desires of other characters.  But it is hard to argue that with characters such as Duke Jean (the young duke), Edward III, and several of Anna's vassals and servants, that all the secondary characters are cardboard cutouts with no inner life (I beg to disagree).  Hunter writes romances, not historical fiction, and the limitations in her work are those of the genre.  I have some minor criticisms here and there, but overall, I enjoyed the work tremendously.  The book rates a 4.7 from me.	2001-08-02
US	50375720	R2PEUAIW02ZQ8Z	0451153642	207784589	American Duchess (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Definitely a keeper...	I have to agree with the reviewer below who did such a great job in outling the story.  Although this is an old story, there is still so much in it to like upon a re-read.  It is a story of a couple brought together by duty and love - on his part, the duty to his estates and tenants, to his family, and to his Name and Title, and on hers, to her father.  In agreeing to marry, they discover firstly that they get along surprisingly well, and secondly that they love each other - but not without several hiccups.  One of Tracy's problems is her post-natal depression (the baby blues) which combine with a general feeling of insecurity both as a very young wife and mother and as a foreigner and outside.  Her attempts to do what she thinks her husband wants from her - to be a political hostess - only serve to create a rift between the two.  This is made worse when a former suitor arrives in London and completely misread's Tracy's feelings about her marriage and about himself.  But everything ends happily (this is a romance!), and the young duke and duchess realize that they are in love, and that Tracy does not in fact have to play the part of political hostess.<br />Add to all this some delightful vignettes into the way in which American heiresses were received in British high society (well before the 1880s and 1890s when many more American heiresses arrived to win titles), and the ways in which a young Republican heroine adjusts to life at the top of the aristocratic ladder.  Tracy's political beliefs are not taken seriously by the statesmen who listen to her, but then fortunately she is no firebrand, either. <br />At least one of the love scenes were curiously reminiscent of a similar scene in THE GAMBLE (one of my favorite Joan Wolf books).  This scene and other scenes are slightly more explicit than the norm for this period (early 1980s), but most of the sensuality is conveyed by such scenes as the couple fishing together, riding together, the duke lifting a heavy branchoff the road, and so forth.  <br />If you like Joan Wolf, this book is a must-read.  It is also a favorite choice for most Regency readers.  There is no explicit adventure, but the story of a couple learning about each other and the sacrifices they have made for others.	2001-07-29
US	50375720	R2F2G58RM774IF	0451164334	649941587	The Second Lady Southvale	Books	3	4	5	N	N	One of her earlier books, and it shows...	This is a decent Heath, but no more than that.  Among her earlier works, I prefer MANNERBY'S LADY and THE MAKESHIFT MARRIAGE, which both combine superb travelogues or descriptions of scenery (a Heath trademark) with a thoroughly believable story.  By comparison, this particular story is weak.  <br />The setting is certainly interesting, in that the story begins in Washington DC in 1811 and shifts rapidly to England.  The story is also an unusual one - of an American beauty who falls for an English diplomat, a widower mourning his first wife, at first sight.  Having said all these, the Gothic elements seem way too melodramatic.  The story already had so much promise of a betrothal and marriage forged at the time of strained relations (and then warfare) between the two countries.  Adding to this, the mystery about the hero turning cold towards his intended already seemed a bit too much.<br />Since this is an old book, I will summarize what happens briefly. American beauty Rosalind Carberry falls in love with Lord Southvale (Philip de Grey) whom she meets at the Fourth of July ball in Washington DC.  He tells her that he only came to the ball - a sensitive action given that he is a British diplomat - to meet her, and he fell for her at first sight.  She responds favorably, and the couple become engaged the next day.  The parents are not happy, but a wedding is planned, but never takes place because Lord Southvale is sent back to London for further instructions.  <br />Rosalind follows him impulsively, only to discover that no one knows about her, and that her fiance has not mentioned their engagement to his own sister and aunt. What is worse, he is not around and cannot be found.  And to top all this, his former brother-in-law is behaving atrociously to her.   Some mysteries are solved rapidly when it is learned that his first wife is still alive (she had been believed drowned off Ireland) and that she has returned to him; her brother knew of this.  <br />Philip had written to Rosalind explaining the situation, but the letter went astray or did not reach her in time.  Unfortunately, Philip does not make his position clear to Rosalind, whose own reputation is now ruined because she has been chasing after a married man. <br />It turns out that the first wife Celia is no angel, as Philip had believed her, and that she had been having an affair while she was believed dead.  The story ends with the brother attempting to stop Rosalind exposing this truth, by attacking both her and her maid.  Philip rescues them both, and all will end well - although Philip will have to divorce Celia for adultery.  <br />Divorce in a Regency romance is slightly unusual, even when the hero is an innocent party.  I found the first half of the book very interesting, and the second half a bit harder to take both for this and other reasons.  One of the problems I had was that Philip failed to make his position clear to Rosalind immediately; another problem I had was with Rosalind haring off after Philip, accompanied only by her maid.  Both actions had logical answers and explanations, but still... <br />The biggest problem I had was with Philip taking back his first wife (or planning to take her back) so readily.  Yes, honor would have demanded nothing less, but the man was surely blind and stupid not to have realized Celia's true character.  [Apparently he had been hopelessly in love with Celia until he caught sight of Rosalind].  <br />The second problem I had was with Philip loving his apparently deceased wife so passionately, that he would not take off his ring, and then falling for another woman at first sight. [This was a real problem with Rosalind's parents and brother, and I cannot but agree.] While I agree that a widower may fall for another woman, his hastiness seemed somehow contrived, even allowing for the lack of time and the constraints upon him.<br />My own wish was that the second half of the book had been different.  No reappearance of a dead wife, but rather the constraints that would develop as war approached, and as the couple resolved their personal and political differences.  But then for that kind of a book, I would recommend Joan Wolf's AN AMERICAN DUCHESS.	2001-07-28
US	50375720	R2FVWEU6H2GYF8	0802706053	856866258	Gwendolen	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Sometimes funny, but not her best.	I took to reading Clare Darcy on the recommendation of people who consider her to be the closest to Georgette Heyer.  Well, she is nowhere near Heyer.  While her heroines are generally vivacious and her heroes are always handsome, there is less wit and irony, and less attention to the historical details and social mores.  For example, in GWENDOLEN, a young lady corresponds merrily with a naval hero and then becomes betrothed by correspondence - without the knowledge, one assumes, of her parents, at least initially.  Unfortunately, in the Regency period, no couple would correspond unless closely related or betrothed (in Jane Austen's Sense and Sensibility, the fact that Marianne corresponds secretly with Willoughby leads her family to assume that they are secretly engaged).  This and some other deviations from social mores rather strained my belief in the story.<br />The amazingly headstrong antics of the youngest sister were also hard to believe.  While I am sure that headstrong young women existed then, such behavior would have been labelled as fast and been condemned by society.  The ability of Gwendolen to persuade a would-be seducer to change his itinerary was also hard to believe - especially given what we were told about the man's character.<br />Enjoy the story for its own sake.  It is not particularly true to Regency society, and the story line may be a bit too tame for today's readers.  However, the absence of explicit details and the generally decorous behavior of most of the characters might please more conservative readers who are put off by explicit sex in modern Regencies.  Those who like the genre should however try at least one Clare Darcy to see the transition between Heyer and the modern Regency exemplified by Signet and Zebra (in the American market).<br />A spoiler - the story plot is described simply because there is no editorial description.  The heroine Gwendolen starts the book engaged to a naval hero;  her middle sister Jane has been a social success and returns home with a Marquess following her to propose marriage.  She however is in love with the secretary on a neighboring estate.  Jane however has several problems.  First, she is in love with a poor man.  Second, her love is the wrong nationality, from the point of view of her father.  Third, this man works for one of her father's most-hated neighbors.  Fourth, Jane would be seen as foolish to marry for love, when she has a title and wealth on offer; in fact, her family is in desperate straits.  As if this were not enough, the youngest sister is also engaged to an impecunious young officer, and must delay her marriage.<br />During the novel, all three romances come unstuck.  Only Jane remains in love with her secretary, but must consent to a pseudo-engagement to throw off others.  Gwendolen dismisses her fiance in an amusing scene; the youngest behaves with indiscretion and impetuosity in dismissing her lover.  On top of all this, their father loses their family home and they are obliged to move away. Fear not, at the end, each young woman is reunited with the man whom she secretly desires.	2001-07-20
US	50375720	RQOMBX1YIG6SM	192908501X	66270402	The Marplot Marriage	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Starts off with a bang, ends with a whimper...	This book was oddly disappointing.  The story theme sounded fascinating.  ....The theme of a forced marriage is always provocative; after all, the couple are married, and what the book has to be about is how the couple manage to come to a workeable agreement or a rapprochement (or better still, fall in love of course). <br />Unfortunately, this book did not deliver for me.  I did not mind the portrayal of Charles as stuffy, since I learned enough about his past to explain his behavior.  [Seeing him interact with his friends would have helped but...]  The problem was the heroine, who starts out badly by causing trouble for herself in joking about the horrible situation she finds herself in, and then makes matters worse in flirting roundly when she is left alone in London after her marriage.  Reading these descriptions, I found it hard to have sympathy for her. <br />The \\"other woman\\" and her role in the story seemed rather contrived as well.  I could understand Phoebe's worries about this woman, but I could not understand the subsequent misunderstandings.  Compared to that, the Big Misunderstanding between the couple is at least comprehensible.<br />The humor seemed forced at times, and the heroine's behavior really made it hard for me to enjoy the story.  Despite these flaws, it was a good first novel by the author.	2001-07-19
US	50375720	R10XOAJA79YJ4N	1929085559	402629843	The Winter Holiday Sampler	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good, but less engaging than the first sampler..	This book is now available in paperback directly from the publisher as well as on CD-ROM (important information for those who do not have regular access to a computer, those who cannot read a computer screen for long, and those who simply like paper books).  Having got that out of the way, let me offer a candid assessment of the book.<br />I read this last night for about 3 hours.  Some of the stories are clearly better than others.  That is par for the course.  Several of the authors are repeats from the earlier Regency Sampler.  Among those I recommend is the delightful Winter's Tail by Sandra Heath (yes, the writer of paranormal and other Regency romances from Signet).  Several of the stories stand up to re-reads.<br />Then why give it 4 stars?  Well, for one, reading stories about Christmas, Twelvth Night, and Hanukkah in mid-summer is not probably the best idea.  Secondly, I personally don't care so much for holiday-themed stories.  A few of them in one book can be enjoyable; 17 of them can be a bit too much.  I mention this because it may not be clear from the publishing information that all the stories have to have a winter background and a holiday theme.<br />Thirdly, while I enjoyed the stories, few of them stuck in my mind the way that many of the stories from the first sampler did.  I would not say that the stories were of lower quality, but perhaps my expectations were somewhat higher.<br />Despite these reservations, I would certainly recommend this edition.  This sampler is however [different price then] the first Regency sampler, therefore not quite as good value.  But on the other hand, you get 17 delightful stories for that price.	2001-07-19
US	50375720	RPXNSSE8YJ1L6	1929085001	109051050	A Regency Sampler	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Definitely worth buying...	I have bought three books from the Regency Press output, and I have to say that this is the best value of them all (several magnificent stories for the price of one Regency!).  The stories range from a chilling mystery to several delightful romps.  Strongly recommended for those who love Regency romances.	2001-07-19
US	50375720	R1NPFYSWOTBSST	0380791986	395065543	Six Moon Dance	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting ideas, but did not engage...	I found this book, which I picked up mainly on the basis on the interesting gender reversal idea alluded to in other books, to be oddly disappointing. Why? Well, for one, there are so many characters who are not always well-developed. It is hard to get involved with a story, when the myriads of half-developed characters get in the way. I was constantly referring to the introductory list of characters to identify who is what. <br />Having said that, I have to agree that there were some fantastic ideas and themes in this story, especially the concept of the invisible people, who are not quite what they seem - even at the beginning. <br />The sociology of the planet is extremely interesting, and I could wish that I had seen a &quot;normal&quot; family (normal for Newholme, that is) at work. We have references to the unusual families of Mouche and Calvy (two of the many interesting male characters) but those families are hardly typical, or are they? <br />Personally, I felt that there was so much going on in this novel that the author would have done better by expanding this novel into a group of books based on Newholme. I was not worried by the use of many familiar stock characters and plot devices in science fiction; after all, what really matters is what a good author does with the standard plot. <br />In conclusion, this is a good novel, and an enjoyable read on Sunday afternoon. It is not however a keeper, and I changed my mind about buying it (after having borrowed it from the library).	2001-07-17
US	50375720	R1JJKH84VS2TFI	0812580362	17173287	The Radiant Seas (Skolian Web)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Probably the most intricately written Asaro...	I have read so far (in that order) QUANTUM ROSE, THE LAST HAWK, ASCENDANT SUN, and now THE RADIANT SEAS. Of these, I will say unhesitatingly that the last book has caught my attention the most, even though it has been roundly criticized by some people for a complicated plot and for various other things. <br />Why do I recommend this book despite its flaws? Because of the love story of Sauscony and Jaibriol (and I wish there had been more of it!), and because of the attempt, however flawed, to combine various narratives into one grand overarching story of a family and couple's story set against grand interstellar intrigue and warfare.<br />For those who come new to this series, the Skolians are descendants of people moved mysteriously off Earth at some earlier period, but moved across time and space. They come from different parts of Earth, and the resultant civilization they develop (their captors disappear, leaving them behind) draws from different Earth civilizations but is technologically far more advanced. At some point, this space civilization splits into two civilizations - the Skolians who depend on telepathy and empathy to control an interstellar and interplanetary form of communcation called the Web, and the Eubian Concord, led by the Aristos (short for Aristocrats) who use telepaths and empaths rather sadistically. These two civilizations are at war, with the Aristo aim being to destroy the leaders of the Skolians - a hereditary family, led by the Ruby Pharaoh. In this context, Earth discovers space travel and forms the Allied Worlds, only to discover that there are these two contending human civilizations before them. <br />THE RADIANT SEAS is thus a story not only of a couple who are in love and who are trying to build a life together against tremendous odds, or of a ruling family trying to survive (in which each member has different traumas to overcome, and the expectations of their people to fulfill), but also a story of high politics - a tripolar (three-power) conflict in which each civilization believes that only one can emerge victorious. Most of the conflict, and it is bitter conflict, is between the Aristos (called the Traders) and the Skolians.<br />The story is told in bits and parts, shifting from the personal experiences of the hero and heroine (and their relatives), to high politics - and showing where personal wishes interact with and sometimes conflict with high politics. If you enjoy reading this kind of a saga, you will enjoy THE RADIANT SEAS. <br />If you find a fractured narrative, focusing on many many characters, hard to follow, you will definitely not like this novel. The list of characters at the start focuses on only some of the characters, and not all the important secondary characters at that. <br />Some warnings should be issued however:<br />1) There is a considerable age difference between the hero and heroine (and the opposite of what we see in QUANTUM ROSE). I find this typical of Asaro, and perhaps unavoidable given the longevity of her major characters. Some readers, especially the more conventional kind, may find this uncomfortable. <br />2) Some of the technological (or SF) terms used are not well-explained. I would have loved to see a glossary of these terms such as IR at the back, for those of us not familiar with hard science. As someone with little science background, I found the photograph of the Klein bottle useful, even though I could not quite understand how an entire fleet could fit into one. An explanation similar to that offered at the end of THE QUANTUM ROSE would be useful.<br />3) There are many many secondary characters in this book, of whom only a fraction are listed in the list of characters. Some people might find this book hard to follow not just because of this, but because they pop up in unexpected places (and yes, there are references to characters appearing in the other books). By the way, if you want to understand who is related to whom, you would be well advised to take a look at the back of QUANTUM ROSE which outlines the main imperial line.<br />4) And yes, there is a lot of description of sex and torture on the part of the Aristos, although I personally found the sex more dominant in THE LAST HAWK, ASCENDANT SUN, and even THE QUANTUM ROSE. I don't feel...that the sex descriptions was necessarily gratuitous, although I could have wished to have seen less of it. I found it interesting that Asaro chose to describe what the Aristos did sexually to a slave Cirrus, rather than to one of the major characters, Althor. The torture scenes, as far as Althor was concerned, were important, even if unpleasant reading. Without that, we as readers would have little idea of what happens to a Rhon who falls into Aristo hands. Fortunately for my squeamish self, Asaro does not include details of what happened to other Rhons who are similarly unfortunate. <br />I think that this novel would appeal most to those who are able to follow the kind of story written by Leo Tolstoy (the War and Peace comparison is irresistible, in terms of the scope of the novel and the numerous characters with their own stories). It would not appeal to those who are used to the more typical Asaro plotline which focuses strongly on one hero (or heroine) and his or her life experiences.<br />Despite all its flaws, and there are many, I give this book a four (although it actually rates at a 4.5). For one, it kept me up and reading until 3 am (something that really means something). For another, it made me determined to acquire the rest of Asaro's books, which is a second plus. For a third, I simply like this kind of narrative strategy.	2001-07-09
US	50375720	R2JJBBWQFHX1NO	0380713632	111610878	Knaves' Wager	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Oldie, but a goodie	One of my rare five-stars goes to this old Regency by Loretta Chase, which I prefer to her LORD OF SCOUNDRELS (published more recently).  The story is slightly unusual, in that there are three romances developing (or unwinding) simultaneously, but the author (and thus the reader) always keeps the primary romance up front.  Since this is a very old book, I will offer a brief summary.<br />The heroine Lilith is a widow who blames a libertine Marquess for the death of her husband, after years of dissipation in London.  She has spent the years of her widowhood bringing out her husband's nieces and marrying them off more suitably (and kindly) than their own parents would have.  However, Lilith is running out of money... but she insists on repaying a debt of honor, making life more difficult for herself. What is a newly impecunious widow to do? Well, if she wants to keep bringing out her surrogate daughters (her husband's nieces), she can only ensure this by marrying a highly eligible - and dull - suitor.  This is just the beginning of a fascinating story, in which the Marquess in question seeks to remove a young cousin from the claws of a mistress and would-be wife, where this same cousin falls for one of the heroine's protegees, and where we see an amazing amount of development in the characters, as they grow and mature through their experiences.  <br />There are no cardboard villains, no too-saintly hero and heroine, but no too-stupid-to-live persons either.  Everything that happens is quite believable (well, almost entirely), and what results is a charming comedy of manners and morals.<br />If you love Georgette Heyer, you might like this book.  It does not have Heyer's ironic wit and richer panoply of characters, but there is something Heyeresque about this story, which is yet uniquely the work of Loretta Chase.  From my perspective, Loretta Chase is one of the more skilful and knowledgeable Regency writers, who rarely makes mistakes in the tone of the period, not tomention such things as titles or events.	2001-07-02
US	50375720	R5FSW0NK5VBRL	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	1	19	24	N	N	Ughh, not my kind of book...	I picked this book because of the interesting premise - a science fiction/ fantasy set in the Regency period. Since I love regencies and like science fiction written by women, I thought I would give this book a try. A big mistake. Why? <br />Firstly, this book is very hard to understand without reading the prequel KNIGHT OF A TRILLION STARS (or something like it). That in itself limits the interest in the book to dedicated readers of this author, or to those who love series romances (as in books that form a series). I like series romances, but only if my attention has been caught positively by one or more books. This is what happened to me with the Darkover fantasy/science fiction series, and with several nicely developed series by Mary Balogh and other authors.  If you are a Dara Joy fan and enjoy all her works, you will probably like this book - and hate this review.<br />Secondly, the book itself is one of those books that uses the Regency period merely as background wallpaper. The most convincing part is the shock that Rejar experiences when he realizes the poverty that exists in London, and the immense hardship experienced by the working and non-working poor. As for the social mores, the historical people who appear in the romance, and the general feel, the less said the better. This is a deeply unsatisfying book to most lovers of Regency romances.<br />Without these problems, the story itself put me off. A reviewer below has put it better - the heroine cannot understand the hero's real character, and has no wish to understand it. The hero's attraction to the heroine appears to be purely sexual.  The part where the hero appears as a cat is fun at first, but then the attraction and novelty rapidly wore off, as the hero engaged in some questionable actions from my point of view.  The heroine did not engage my interest at all.<br />While some readers may enjoy the descriptions of the sex scenes (hardly love scenes), they grated and jangled on my nerves. The description of the wedding night in particular was hard to get through. I don't consider myself a prude, but coupled with all the other things that felt wrong, the book left a bad taste in my mouth.<br />I suppose if you enjoy sexually explicit romances such as those by Susan Johnson, you might like this book. If you want the development of a consistently believable *emotional* relationship between hero and heroine and/or some attention to historical accuracy and general believability of the setting, this is definitely not the book that you want to pick up first.  <br />Again, this review is not for the Dara Joy fan (feel free to hate this review) but for someone looking for a change of pace from reading Regency romances or fantasy science fiction.	2001-06-14
US	50375720	R36TNC8LUUFAEK	0451201396	75668805	The Duke's Wager and Lord of Dishonor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A short but enthusiastic review for once	is coming your way from me.  I could rave on and on, especially about the first book (which reminds me in some ways of another favorite, Balogh's THE PLUMED BONNET) but I will leave you to read the detailed and fine reviews by others before me.  <br />If you love Regencies, and adore books with very strong character-driven stories (without any external fripperies such as spies, insane or villainous relatives, and the like), you will love both stories.  I particularly recommend the first THE DUKE'S WAGER, where I started rooting for the less prepossessing candidate at some point in the story.  Without any spoilers, let me just say I was so relieved when Regina made her choice.  She didn't do badly for herself socially, but I think it was the better choice - both for her as a person (as she says at the end) and for the man involved.<br />A little note - if you ever wondered about the sexual peccadilloes and orgies in the Regency period, read the first and last scenes, at least.  Quite eye-opening, I assure you.	2001-05-31
US	50375720	R88MGKE433SYX	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	5	74	78	N	N	This book dragged me right back...	to reading romances, after I had sworn in a fit of New Year resolutions to stop reading them.  I would recommend reading the book to find out why.  The other reviewers have said it all, but this is what *I* felt was different about this book (which got a rare five-stars from picky old me):<br />1) wonderfully detailed historical research, which is yet not overwhelming.  That is, Hunter does not use details to impress us, but to add color, and all the rest of the sensations to her story.  For example, the details about the room where David and Christiana first meet, with the fact that Christiana notices only certain things about the room at first, and rather more in her second visit (because it is a different time of day, she is less frightened, and so on).  There are small, telling historical facts added to enable us to place the book exactly in time and place.  There are general details about the social and economic structure of society, which are sometimes overlooked by other writers of medieval romances.  In short, if you like to see your facts right, you will be very happy in this book.  [Mind you, you either have to like a very intriguing story, or to love medievals].<br />2) the unconventional love story, with the hero being a merchant. Although his birth father is a nobleman (as it turns out), his mother was the daughter of a merchant, and he was raised by another merchant.  Throughout the story, we see David battling with the values of his upbringing and the great love and loyalty he has for his city (the City of London), which runs counter to possibilities that arise for his advancement by the standards of the time.  The heroine is a noblewoman, but a rather strong-willed and intelligent, even perceptive, heroine.  Not a woman who willfully throws herself into danger, nor a woman who depends on her beauty to get her out of trouble.<br />3) The motives for the marriage itself.  No spoilers here, but let us just say that David's attraction to Christiana (although very real) is not his primary or even secondary motive for marrying her.  Even at the end, if you are like me, you will wonder whether the motive stated at the end of the book was his real reason for marrying her.  I could think of two other possibilities, both mentioned in the book.<br />4) The hero.  Ahh!  I don't usually sigh over fictional heroes (even Mr Darcy), but this hero is really unusual.  Some people will be put off by the dark streak in his character, his ruthlessness, his ability to compartmentalize and calculate even in times of crisis.  Others will find him fascinating and all the more complete for his double-edged motivations and actions.  Let me just say that if you like a tortured hero, you will probably like David - but if you want your hero to be totally redeemed by the end of the love story, you might be put off.  David's transformation (if it happened) is an ongoing process, incomplete in this book, and perhaps more visible in the forthcoming sequel THE PROTECTOR.<br />5) The love scenes, which are very detailed.  Again, I normally don't discuss love scenes, but some people might be put off by the intense passion generated by this couple (as well as some of the unusual techniques).  For the record, there is every possibility that medieval men would have been familiar with such techniques, given the very recent history of the Crusades which brought a lot of Middle Eastern and thus other ideas and innovations to the medieval West.  If you don't believe me, I recommend Runciman and others.<br />Now, go and read this book!  I promise you that you won't be disappointed.  Frustrated perhaps, but not disappointed.  As for myself, I read this book several months ago, started a fan club online for Hunter, and chewed over my thoughts (over some partial re-reads) for months before writing this review.	2001-05-31
US	50375720	R3OQ4N8X3NQ29N	0451197895	863124897	The Rake's Retreat (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Don't judge the book by the blurb!	My very first book by this author nearly put me off entirely - by the blurb on the back cover.   It was a while before I could bring myself to pick it up and to go beyond the first two pages.   Be warned - do not make the same mistake that I did.   The blurb does not do justice to the story, and in fact gets several details wrong.<br />Some spoilers follow but first a general warning:   the story is not about the young actress who discovers the murder, but about her rescuer Mr Beecham Bryce and a Lady Jemima Vale who is an amateurish artist, in all senses of that word.   And no - Lady Jemima's art skills play no part in the story, except to permit her to appreciate the greater aristic skills of others.    <br />The story is not about murder and intrigue, although those do play some part in the story, in forcing Lady Jemima to remove to the house of a well-known rake, and the intrigue elements become crucial at one point very late in the story.   However, the love story itself is not dependent on the murder nor on the intrigue, except in permitting the author to bring the couple together at the beginning.   So, if you are looking for a book full of a hero and heroine (and villains) dashing about the countryside, you will be disappointed.   And yes, there is a villain (more than one, actually) but the real villain's identity comes as a surprise.<br />I won't tell you too much about the rest of the story, for fear of spoiling other discoveries for you.   Once I got past the first four or five pages, I found myself engrossed in the book - rooting for the hero and heroine alike, and hoping sincerely that the hero, in particular, would be able to actually read the heroine's mind.  [The misunderstanding that temporarily separates them is entirely believable - in that it is a problem of miscommunication, rather than of unnecessary pride or some external agent].    The real surprise is the ending.  Once the murder and the intrigue have been resolved, the hero and heroine donot fall into each other's arms.  They must still learn to communicate better, and for once, the heroine is the one taking steps to end the misunderstanding by swallowing her own pride at being rejected.<br />It has a good plot, a hero who is not a nobleman (and is rather unconventional), a far-from-missish but not waspish heroine, and some interesting and finely drawn secondary characters.   This is not a book to read for wit and humor (although there is a good-natured tone in the story), nor one for pathos and tears. <br />Read this for a good story about a relationship that builds around, and even despite, a mystery.  More precisely, there are several mysteries - Who is the murderer? What was the murderer doing in the area? Is Jemima right in her suspicions about Beecham?.  And there is lots of other suspense created by such small things as a cart going the wrong way, but I will leave it to you to find out what happens.<br />Despite some improbabilities, this is still one of the best Regencies I have read this year.	2001-05-30
US	50375720	RAE4EGP35S3NW	0451197895	863124897	The Rake's Retreat (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Don't judge the book by the blurb!	My very first book by this author nearly put me off entirely - by the blurb on the back cover.  It was a while before I could bring myself to pick it up and to go beyond the first two pages.  Be warned - do not make the same mistake that I did.  The blurb does not do justice to the story, and in fact gets several details wrong.<br />Some spoilers follow but first a general warning:  the story is not about the young actress who discovers the murder, but about her rescuer Mr Beecham Bryce and a Lady Jemima Vale who is an amateurish artist, in all senses of that word.  And no - Lady Jemima's art skills play no part in the story, except to permit her to appreciate the greater aristic skills of others.<br />The story is not about murder and intrigue, although those do play some part in the story, in forcing Lady Jemima to remove to the house of a well-known rake, and the intrigue elements become crucial at one point very late in the story.  However, the love story itself is not dependent on the murder nor on the intrigue, except in permitting the author to bring the couple together at the beginning.  So, if you are looking for a book full of a hero and heroine (and villains) dashing about the countryside, you will be disappointed.  And yes, there is a villain (more than one, actually) but the real villain's identity comes as a surprise.<br />I won't tell you too much about the rest of the story, for fear of spoiling other discoveries for you.  Once I got past the first four or five pages, I found myself engrossed in the book - rooting for the hero and heroine alike, and hoping sincerely that the hero, in particular, would be able to actually read the heroine's mind.  [The misunderstanding that temporarily separates them is entirely believable - in that it is a problem of miscommunication, rather than of unnecessary pride or some external agent].  The real surprise is the ending.  Once the murder and the intrigue have been resolved, the hero and heroine do not fall into each other's arms.  They must still learn to communicate better, and for once, the heroine is the one taking steps to end the misunderstanding by swallowing her own pride at being rejected.<br />It has a good plot, a hero who is not a nobleman (and is rather unconventional), a far-from-missish but not waspish heroine, and some interesting and finely drawn secondary characters.  This is not a book to read for wit and humor (although there is a good-natured tone in the story), nor one for pathos and tears.<br />Read this for a good story about a relationship that builds around, and even despite, a mystery.  More precisely, there are several mysteries - Who is the murderer? What was the murderer doing in the area? Is Jemima right in her suspicions about Beecham?.  And there is lots of other suspense created by such small things as a cart going the wrong way, but I will leave it to you to find out what happens.<br />Despite some improbabilities, this is still one of the best Regencies I have read this year.not fall into each other's arms.  They must still learn to communicate better, and for once, the heroine is the one taking steps to end the misunderstanding by swallowing her own pride at being rejected.<br />It has a good plot, a hero who is not a nobleman (and is rather unconventional), a far-from-missish but not waspish heroine, and some interesting and finely drawn secondary characters.   This is not a book to read for wit and humor (although there is a good-natured tone in the story), nor one for pathos and tears. <br />Read this for a good story about a relationship that builds around, and even despite, a mystery.  More precisely, there are several mysteries - Who is the murderer? What was the murderer doing in the area? Is Jemima right in her suspicions about Beecham?.  And there is lots of other suspense created by such small things as a cart going the wrong way, but I will leave it to you to find out what happens.<br />Despite some improbabilities, this is still one of the best Regencies I have read this year.	2001-05-30
US	50375720	R2ACMJKB1BKKDK	0440223865	557780274	Call Down the Moon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Ok book, redeemed by interesting heroine and plot device...	I have to confess from the outset that I am not usually fond of paranormal Regencies, although I have made the occasional exception here and there.  So, if you don't like paranormal elements, this might not be the book for you.  CALL DOWN THE MOON has a wonderful title (appropriate given both the heroine's supposed insanity and her strange pet); it has a fascinating heroine and some wonderfully zany relatives and servants.  So what is wrong?  The hero.  If you don't like heros who behave irresponsibly through most of the book, this is not the book for you.  While Hugo (brother of the Duke who appears as the hero in ONCE UPON A DREAM) is a scapegrace, a gambler who has wasted his inheritance, and who cold-bloodedly plans to marry an apparently crazy heiress for her heir, he is not actually as bad as he seems.  Kingsley does a fine job in showing how addicts can be tempted easily, especially by supposed friends.  Hugo's decision to court someone he believes to be insane and illegitimate is a result of his succumbing to temptation.  I found this plot device both interesting and believable.<br />What I found hard to take was that the heroine would fall hopelessly in love with him, despite his belief that she was both insane and a dimwit.  And I also found his wilful blindness to her sanity, her intelligence and all her excellent qualities hard to take.  This is Hugo's book, but we do learn a bit more about his family, including the cause of his father's suicide and the effect it has had on the survivors.  [Contrary to what some reviewers wrote, we also learn a bit more about Raphael and Lucy].  I read this book first, and I have to admit that I had an entirely different picture of the way Raphael courted Lucy...<br />A good read, but with a rather flawed hero.  And, as others have pointed out, there is no assurance that Hugo has learned that he will never be entirely free from gambling, nor has he learned to fully appreciate his wife.  I thought this novel badly neededan epilogue, showing that he had indeed reformed, learned to deal with his gambling addiction, and also learned to treat his wife as an equal.	2001-05-25
US	50375720	RFG91U1ZL3F5J	0821767240	241236721	An Unwilling Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Interesting plot device, with a double surprise thrown in...	As someone deeply interested in the British peerage, I found this story extremely interesting.  What happens when a young man discovers that the man he has believed his father all his lifetime tells him the truth about his birth?  This is the situation in which Lucien, who appeared in THE ARRANGED MARRIAGE, finds himself at the start of the novel.  We first encounter him as a typical hell-raiser, albeit one who is a good friend to Nicholas Delaney and other members of the Company of Rogues (a story and theme interwoven through all these books).  <br />Then, the truth emerges rapidly - Lucien is the son of the Duke's wife by a brief affair she had with another man; the Duke accepted the baby at the time because there were other heirs who subsequently died.  It is not surprising given the strained relationship between his parents and the complete lack of affection from his father that Lucien is a hell-raiser.  He is however beginning to think about marriage, as part of his duty.<br />This is where the second surprise comes in - the Duke finds out that he has an illegitimate daughter, who is now a schoolteacher at a very exclusive seminary (school for young ladies).  He insists on his son (in the eyes of the law) and his illegitimate daughter (not publicly recognized) marrying - this might seem icky to some readers.  It is easy to consider the Duke a villain without understanding his own pride in his family, his own bitter disappointment in his wife and then in the death of his legitimate sons.<br />My sympathies naturally fall to the hero and heroine - Lucien and the teacher Beth.  Although both behave in less than admirable ways at times, I can understand the enormous compulsions they are struggling under.  However, while Beth is the more pitiful in some regards (she has no money, and may have no job), she also behaves rather foolishly in claiming a colorful past and in antagonizing her reluctant fiance.  Let us just say that the hero and heroine make some understandable but completely wrong assumptions about each other.<br />The rest of the story is marked by sexual and other tension;  the couple loathe each other, but are required to produce children to be able to win independent incomes.  Lucien cannot bear the thought of Beth as his wife, but is also somewhat attracted to her.  He does have a dark side; his near-use of violence shocks a long-time family servant into protesting, and his actual use of violence (although justifiable by the *standards* of the age) will shock and disgust some readers.  It does seem that Beth is quick to forgive him, and that his own horror at his actions is only temporary. [Here, I have to wonder given his previous attempts to physically subdue Beth, what kind of marriage they are going to have.  Has Lucien really learned something?].<br />Beth can be bossy, sometimes remarkably unaware of danger, and often wilfully flouting social conventions (as in going to visit her husband's mistress).  I cannot say that she is a paragon of virtue, or that she is always likeable, because she is not.   But both she and Lucien are always interesting, although I sometimes fear for their marriage.<br />The supporting cast of characters, including the creepy villain who emerges from TAM, are as engaging as ever.  The mistress, or rather ex-mistress, is a rather unusual person;  the portrayal of even minor characters such as the mistress's servants, the grooms and the footmen at the ducal seat, and the villain's hired rogies are all believable and very much alive.  In fact, I think this is what makes Beverley's books come alive - not just that her hero and heroine are not cardboard characters, but that she has peopled her books with secondary characters (like the Duke and Duchess, and Lucien's friends, the villain and his intended bride), as well as minor characters who all have their own histories - whether described, hinted at, or hidden.  <br />Why do I rate this book at four stars although it is a keeper on myshelves?  Because the violence, real or implied, might put off some readers, especially the domestic violence.  Because, in my view, the book ends too quickly after the domestic violence with forgiveness coming across too pat.  Also, because at times, Beth makes remarkably stupid decisions.  On the other hand, those decisions make her all the more human, and are justifiable given her life history and her character.	2001-05-16
US	50375720	R2BMNGB7UNZD1L	0451190513	927452070	The Plumed Bonnet (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	A marvellous book in a great series	I have to say I am biased; I like this series by Mary Balogh so much that they are all keepers (starting with THE FAMOUS HEROINE and ending with THE CHRISTMAS BRIDE, which is also part of another series).  What makes THE PLUMED BONNET special to me among the wonderful books in this series is the amount of realism that Balogh brings to this particular book.  Normally, Regency writers often have heroines tramping around the countryside with little recognition of some real dangers that could exist.  This book shows some of the dangers that could befall a woman travelling alone, and makes us understand some of those &quot;peculiar&quot; social conventions such as having your maid or a man servant travel with you.  <br />The story begins with a bored Duke of Bridgwater (who has appeared in several other books in the series as a friend or acquaintance of the other heroes) deciding to leave London.  On the way he takes up a young woman whom he believes to be a woman of easy virtue.  He jumps to this conclusion based on her attire (incidentally, the cover art shows her in the wrong color dress, and the duke not dressed for the country).  As it happens, appearances are deceiving, but the duke has been well-entertained by the young woman's efforts to spin him a story about her expectations (she has just inherited a fortune, she is a former governess, but she must marry within a specified time period, and so forth).  <br />It turns out that the young woman was speaking the truth, and the Duke realizes that he has compromised her, and then offers to marry her to protect her name and reputation, and his own honor.   The story then moves to London, where the heroine - Stephanie Gray - is being trained to be a duchess by the Dowager Duchess (the very same Duchess who was chaperoning Cora in the THE FAMOUS HEROINE).  She is also painfully aware of how much she owes the duke - not just her reputation, but more.  The duke wants much more than formality from his fiancee, but he cannotseem to communicate that to her - or she misinterprets his words, his expressions, and his actions.<br />After the marriage, the Duke confesses the truth to his wife - that he thought her a lady of easy virtue, and that he intended to make her his mistress.  Stephanie realizes that she has built up the duke to be a paragon.  Although the confession is painful, it is necessary for them to rebuild a new life together. And here, Balogh displays her genius by showing us a new side of the Duke (as if we had not been surprised by being allowed inside the duke's mind in the first place).<br />If you like Mary Balogh and the like (Carla Kelly, and others who take time to build up characters slowly), you will love THE PLUMED BONNET.  This is not a story filled with dash and intrigue; the tension comes from the story itself, and the changes in the hero and the heroine as they struggle to adjust to expectations of each other and what society expects of them.  No spies, no major villains - just a story of how an unlikely couple meet and fall in love.  Best of all, the falling in love comes after the marriage, and under somewhat interesting circumstances (maypole, anyone?).	2001-05-16
US	50375720	R1ST39JUK1LYII	0449000184	263102702	One Perfect Rose (Fallen Angels)	Books	3	24	28	N	N	I had to write this after reading...	a strongly negative review written earlier by someone who appears to review only books she dislikes intensely.  I read this book by Mary Jo Putney, an author I admire intensely, with mixed feelings. In the end, I decided that the book was not a keeper for me, although it has some fine moments.<br />Here's why:<br />The plot is certainly an old and tried one (rich nobleman disguises his identity and goes travelling around) but with a couple of twists - firstly, that he is not looking for love (as the prince in the fairy tale does), and secondly, that he is apparently terminally ill.  It is not surprising that he is estranged from his family; somehow most of MJP's heroes are.  Because of the two twists in the basic &quot;fairy tale&quot; plot, I found the plot line rather more interesting.  There is also the suspense of wondering if the doctor and his brother will catch up with him, and wondering why the doctor is so desperate to see the duke.<br />From this point of view, the story worked beautifully.  There was just enough intrigue and suspense to make it believable, but not too much that would overwhelm both the romantic element and the development of family relationships.  [Many Regency historicals are more suspense/intrigue, with the romantic aspect taking secondary place.  I find myself disliking such books for the most part].<br />Mary Jo Putney is a fine writer, and it shows in the book.  I believed in the hero, a terminally ill Duke, and in the reasons why he set off without setting his affairs in order, or notifying his brother.  [If you have received a severe shock, and your only brother and sister are not exactly warm in their feelings towards you, sometimes your only thoughts are of escape].<br />I liked the heroine and her family tremendously.  While I did not like the fact that the hero deceived her and her family about his identity, I could accept that as another plot device to keep the story going - although I would have preferred a different version.<br />I have to say that where I was turned off by the story was where the heroine's past is revealed.  No spoilers here, but I felt that the story would have been stronger if the new Duchess had been precisely who we thought her to be.  This was what made some of MJP's other novels so strong for me [and what has annoyed me about a couple of her later novels].  Constructing this previous identity for her, and having it revealed oh-so-conveniently made matters too easy.  Some of the tension seeped out of the story at this point, in my opinion.<br />I would have given this story three and a half stars, but that option is not available.  The story as it was until the revelation of the heroine's real identity merited a higher ranking.  All I can say is that I found the revelation of the facts about the Duke's illness intriguing (and wanted to hear more about it), but the story about the heroine's past rather ho-hum.  For a better version of *that* kind of story, I recommend THESE OLD SHADES by Georgette Heyer.	2001-05-15
US	50375720	R1U2WDNVQ42DR5	0821749463	648467367	A Gentleman's Daughter (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting but slightly far-fetched...	This is apparently Isabel Linton's debut novel, and the plot is certainly unique (and has been described in the editorial review). <br />The heroine is appealing, the hero is in an untenable position but is completely honourable. The absence of money and connections becomes a major issue in the story, as it was in real life. The debauchery of some members of the aristocracy is also fully exposed here, to a point that may be hard to take for some readers.<br />What I found hard to take (apart from the rape and other forms of abuse) was the almost caricature-like portrayals of the three villains in the book. Insanity was suggested by the hero's friend as the reason for the way they behaved, but I felt that to be too simplistic. I was also astounded that the hero had no idea that they were likely to behave in that manner, considering how close he was to them. <br />I have to agree that Victoria was the perfect victim, empty-headed, gullible, malleable and with no father and no healthy male relations to protect her; her mother was also totally hopeless, making the wrong decision at virtually every moment. I was slightly astonished that the heroine would be chosen as the victim, considering her greater strength and presence of mind; I can only suppose that she was considered a challenge, doubly or triply so.<br />I do have one or two caveats. Some of the settings for the more revealing conversations are far-fetched; it is unlikely that the Viscount would be openly talking about his plans at Almack's for one. There was at times too much conversation, which did not really reveal much apart from how good or how bad certain characters were. The embezzlement of the hero's fortune was slightly far-fetched, given that his father's access to the fortune (if not the income) would have been limited. [Embezzlements therefore commonly happened when the trustees or the actual professionals handling the money were dishonest; marriage settlements were set up precisely to prevent the situation described from happening]. <br />Finally, regarding a crucial dismissal of one of the girl's maids, it is hard to imagine that any house servant would dare to take such action summarily, without recourse to the employer. A servant could not be dismissed by the servants of another noble household; she might well be accused of thievery, immoral behavior, and so forth, but the dismissal could come only from the employer. These were some minor points that seemed to be errors.<br />While I do not care generally for such melodramatic situations, I found the hero and heroine very appealing, and just wished that they could have been situated somewhat differently. I hope that Miss Linton can create such appealing characters in somewhat less melodramatic settings. On the other hand, her ability to create ordinary and decent people and place them in highly unusual families and settings might go down better with other readers.	2001-05-14
US	50375720	R6X1KHWSV3OSQ	0312890621	749199652	The Quantum Rose (The Saga of the Skolian Empire)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	World-building aspects most interesting, good love story	The young ruler (Kamoj) of a desperately poor province is forced by societal traditions to marry a mysterious stranger (Vryl), who - we soon discover - is stranger than anyone on the planet thought. Those who want feisty heroines will probably not find this romance satisfactory, because the heroine is relatively passive at the beginning until she rebels against social conventions - way into the book. There is a villain, who is rather interesting - in that his genetics and biology is of great interest to those who are reading the entire Asaro output. <br />Vryl is a &quot;tortured hero&quot; in that he has had an experience well deserving nightmares and his current addiction. But he is a nice man, as Kamoj discovers. <br />Be warned - the love story is more complex than it appears. You have to understand the political and economic structure of her world and the Skolians to realize what is going on. It took me two reads to understand this myself. <br />Romance readers might find the political stuff (not to mention the science fiction aspects) off-putting. Science fiction might find the romantic stuff wishy-washy.  Those who enjoy less hardcore science fiction will probably like this the most.<br />The cover art by Julie Bell is a different matter - simply not accurately depicting the hero and heroine, IMHO. I sincerely hope that they have a different cover for the paperback edition.	2001-05-14
US	50375720	R2R3WEV217PM4N	0743413156	784839574	The Hell Fire Club (The Underground Classic)	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Light and amusing read...	This short book is about one of the stranger institutions that developed in 18th-century England, the notorious Hellfire club founded by a young baronet and some other prominent men.  This book does a good job of explaining the reasons for founding the club, and in outlining some of the personalities that made up the club.  Briefly put, although the club was mainly about sexual excesses (in rites expressing the strong anti-Catholicism of the founders and of 18th century English aristocracy in general), several members of the club were also very important in English politics, if not adept politicians.  Two of the latter kind are the fourth earl of Sandwich (best known for creating the sandwich) and the earl of Bute (the Prime Minister and the lover of George III's mother).  But among the less known members were John Wilkes (a radical) and several prominent authors.  <br />I won't go into the history of the club, except to say that what made it so interesting to contemporaries was not so much the sexual and other practices of the members (relatively routine for those days among the aristocracy), but rather the fact that the club actively sought to obtain political power for its members - and that the founder Sir Francis Dashwood (later a baron) created some rather memorable features on his estate.<br />The problem I have with the book is that it is basically a light entertaining read, but without any sources whatsover for its many anecdotes and other details.  There is also absolutely no index, so if you are interested in a particular character, you have to find your own way through the book.  I was looking at the most recent 2001 edition (a good bargain at the price), and the original editions might have this information and more.  From the point of view of someone looking for light reading about the period, this rates four to four and a half stars.  For someone looking for more detailed information (with sources and acknowledgements), there is more information available elsewhere although not in such a nice package.  I therefore give it three stars.<br />Some nice touches - details about club life in London, the descriptions of Sir Francis's estate (now owned by the National Trust), the quick vignettes of the main characters/founders.<br />Some problems - the lack of an index, the lack of any sources or any bibliography (even in an afterword), some minor errors such as the claim that Sir Francis was &quot;made&quot; a baron.  He in fact inherited a barony (the ancient Barony Le Despencer, now held by the Viscounts Falmouth), and at best, he petitioned the Crown to acknowledge him as Baron.  This is a slightly different situation.	2001-05-03
US	50375720	REHKMEX9RBHO3	0451197062	789933103	Too Many Matchmakers (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	One of her better books...	I would actually give this 2 and a half stars, but since this is the best book of hers I have read so far...<br />What I liked most was the ending, which reminded me of the screwball comedies of the 1930s (&quot;let's change partners!&quot;).  Woah! That gives it away, doesn't it. Fear no more, because I will only tell why I like the book.<br />First of all, the heroine is quite appealing, and probably the most appealing heroine of Lane's that I have come across. She is not too stupid to live, nor spoiled, nor excessively modern (even if her ideas about proclaiming her sentiments publicly are rather far-fetched).<br />Secondly, some of her previous characters (at least two sets of heroes and heroines) show up briefly in her novel. For example, the poet Thornton reveals his identity, and so does Merriweather. [See THE EARL'S REVENGE for Thornton and Merriweather's story].  There are links to other books here as well, for example THE IMPOVERISHED VISCOUNT which is a sequel for one of the minor characters in this book.  I confess to being a sucker for half-way decent series, where minor characters in one book become major characters or the protagonists in others.  If you like this kind of interlinking book series, you might want to read Allison Lane, and more particularly, this book.<br />Thirdly, although the hero frustrates me sometimes with his attitude (and his wish to made Lady Diana his mistress), he is overall a decent man.  Consider for example, his attitude towards his responsibilities and his dependants, as well as the way he feels responsible for watching out for his cousin.  [Now the fact that he can't see her worse qualities is definitely a problem, but he is not perfect].<br />Which brings me to my fourth point:  in this book, we see all kinds of couples and marriages - from the happily married rakish and/or modern(Thornton and Merriweather) to the happily married but convention (the Parkers) to the priggish but happy together (a couple who come togetherin the book), to the unhappily married (the hero's parents) to the vast numbers of conventionally married noble couples with &quot;separate&quot; interests (George's parents).  In that sense, this book is rather more developed than most of Allison Lane's books which tend to verge on the melodramatic.  I would have liked to have seen a bit more explanation for the way some of the minor (and major) characters behave, notably Sophia's parents.  I do like the fact that Lane hints at why George is so priggish, and why Nicholas behaves the way he does.  While I don't feel that Lane develops her secondary characters as well as some other authors do, this is definitely a way to make her books more interesting.  [For the record, I do not like cardboard stock characters, and am finding them less appealing as time wears on].<br />The story is a little less melodramatic, although the story about Diana's uncle hearkens back to that.  [Oh my - cannot Lane have an ordinary uncle, for once?  Just a mean, stingy uncle would be sufficient].  Diana and Nicholas were once in love, became estranged because of Nicholas's own foolishness.  When he meets her years later as the widow of one of his elderly friends, he believes her barren and therefore ineligible to be his wife - although he wants her.  She will not become his mistress, and she is championing a young girl chafing at her restrictions. The rest of the story is about how Diana helps this young girl (Chloe) escape from a planned marriage, and find happiness with the man she really loves; and how she finds happiness for herself.  There is a slightly farcical ending, which is brought about because one suitor realizes almost too late that he has been mistaken in the fiancee he has accepted, and because the lady's parents are convinced believers in arranged marriages.  <br />I have to admit that elements of this story were hard to believe, but on the whole the plot was far less contrived than the usual Lane plot.  The style was not the best, but it did not detract significantly from my enjoyment of the story.  [Honesty compels me to say that I read the story a favorable mood to begin with, which allowed me to overlook minor problems].  <br />I won't go so far as to give this story four stars (which I have reserved for the better books I have read so far), but it deserves three stars.  I should warn you that if you are a purist in terms of language, style, tone and general tenour, you might not like this book.  Nor is this book filled with evil villains and stirring adventures.  As I said, if you have a taste for 1930s movies (think Cary Grant, Irene Dunne, Hepburn and Tracy), you will probably enjoy this book.	2001-04-26
US	50375720	R266CIJUY9APZL	0451185021	451789157	8502: Lady Kate's Secret (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	One of the worst Regencies that I have read...	The problem is not so much with the story (although it strains credulity at certain points) or with plot devices (although they also seem improbable) but with the way that the author has set up the books.  One short chapter now and then is good, but a profusion of one-page chapters scattered through such a short novel is not good.  The way that the characters respond to certain situations is also less than credible, and Lady Kate's reaction to her father's secret somewhat strains credibility (she acts through the book mostly like a puppet).  By comparison, the hero comes across as more alive.  Some of the minor characters are interesting, and their stories are *very* interesting. <br />Lady Kate's Secret could have been a very promising book.  Unfortunately, the author first tries to take on too much (a complicated plot with way too many plot devices) and then dissipates the charm of her heroine.  The courtship of the couple, not to mention the life story of the hero (given his age) sounds improbable, although the premise is not unreasonable.  Finally, the real problem is the writing, by which somehow the characters and the story end up two-dimensional paper dolls.  I have not read any of the author's other works, so I am not sure if this is a general problem in her writing or only in this particular book.	2001-04-19
US	50375720	R25LCA996J1YB9	0821763881	722983287	Mutiny At Almack's (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Worth reading mainly for the hero and the Patronesses...	I found this book oddly disappointing, after having more than one person recommend this highly to me. Perhaps my expectations are unrealistic.  The hero was certainly fascinating, a war hero who finds the social mores and the flightiness of Regency England to be unbelievable (OK - I find his disbelief a little unrealistic but...).  He strikes up an unlikely friendship with that cold statesman Lord Castlereagh, and fineagles his way into that renowned bastion of social snobbery, Almack's.  Here I have to say two things - firstly, that the title in no way describes what really happens in the book, and secondly, that the book is worth reading for the author's portrayal of the Castlereaghs and Lady Jersey alone.  Mild spoiler ahead - [In no other book I have read, is Lady Jersey acknowledged to be a young relatively newly married young matron; and in no other book is any kind of relationship between the Patronesses and their spouses described, let alone the kind of relationships shown between the Jerseys and the Castlereaghs).  <br />This part of the book was delightful, and I thought I was on to a winner - except that I was rather disappointed by the lack-lustre heroine.  The second part of the book, which includes the almost-requisite spy element cum villainy cum intrigue, was rather more disappointing.  This was in part because the love interest faded to the background, in part because the antics of the heroine's triplet cousins took up center stage, and in part because of the long separation between hero and heroine (fuelled by the Big Misunderstanding). <br />I wish that I could have skipped to the ending, which takes us back to Almack's, and reunites hero and heroine.  Quite frankly by the end, I had no idea why the hero wanted to marry the heroine (except that she was a little more mature than the usual Miss), and I had no idea why the heroine could not have simply talked to the hero to clear up the Big Misunderstanding.  <br />In conclusion, I thought the book wasted a good hero and a wonderful situation (with the ability to either spoof Almack's completely, or to show us more of the inner workings of that club, or for that matter to show us life from the perspective of a wallflower).  If you have read a lot of books featuring Almack's, you might want to read this book all the same.	2001-04-16
US	50375720	RZG2IFQ97HOYR	0821764209	449347330	The Lieutenant's Lady (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Strong plot, great heroine, somewhat patchy writing...	First off, I really enjoyed this book, and rank this higher than THE CAPTAIN'S COURTSHIP which I found to have a much weaker plot, less memorable characters, and generally a hero and heroine I could not care much for.  By comparison, THE LIEUTENANT'S LADY comes off as a strong spin-off.  Yes, the first cousin romance might put off some readers, as would the fact that the couple get along well almost from the start. The family rift is an old plot, but rather well-done in this regard, when we learn what the real reasons for the rift are.  [I love the fact that the hero does not rush off to tell the heroine about this either].<br />The story has been described by the author and other readers.  We begin with a slight surprise (from our point as readers of the previous book) - it turns out that the estate that has been carefully improved by Lydia and Vanessa is not theirs, but one entailed upon their uncle and his heirs male, and that they live there on sufferance.  The uncle now chooses to toss the family off the estate on a flimsy pretext.  [Here, I squawked with outrage - firstly that the author had not warned us about this in the first book, and secondly that the girls Vanessa and Lydia had been silly enough to waste their hard-won capital on an estate where nothing belonged to them apart from a few hangings, a carpet and sundry personal items].<br />There is a happy turn of events, in that the cousin who is to benefit is actually a relatively honourable man, and also that the family of the Whittaker mother and sisters are to find a new home on the estate of the eldest daughter and her brand-new husband.  There are some poignant passages where Lydia discovers firstly that she has no role to play in their new lives and is expected to behave conventionally (after years of managing the household and scrimping and saving), and secondly that her mother and younger sisters do not apparently appreciate her hard work.  (This reminds me oddly of a similar discovery made by Minerva in Marion Chesney's novel of that title).<br />The heroine then embarks upon a futile romance with her cousin, realizing firstly that he is financially dependent on his parents who would strongly oppose the match to her in particular, and to any lady in her situation in general.  Edward's predicament is well-narrated; he is expected to do the right thing and not jeopardize his inheritance (incidentally, wouldn't the estate's entail have benefitted him ultimately?). There is an interesting sub-plot where a neighbor from Lydia's old home falls for the woman whom Edward is supposed to marry; the lady does not come across as very appealing, but she is certainly human.<br />Faced by family opposition and the belief that Edward will not marry her, Lydia announces her engagement to her old friend and neighbor after he has been rejected by his love's guardian.  The rest of the story involves a duel with an almost farcical ending, and a happily-ever-after ending.  Well, in that, Edward will not inherit his father's fortune nor please his maternal grandfather, but he will have the estate - and Lydia is just the right wife for him with her excellent background in household management on a small budget.<br />Now why did I like that story?  First, I liked Lydia from the start when I met her in the first book [speaking of which, Edward tells his future brother-in-law that he was a fool to choose Lydia's older sister over Lydia, which are my sentiments, exactly].  Secondly, I really felt for her predicament through the first part of the novel, even before she began her romance with Edward.  She was out of place, struggling to adapt to her new position in society (which depended itself on her sister's excellent marriage) and unwilling to go along with her mother's plans just to please that lady.  Yet, as a young Regency lady, she had few choices in life, even though at one time, she had planned to be a governess.  Thirdly, I felt that the romance between Lydia and Edward waswell-done, and we saw how it developed slowly. [I like this kind better than the &quot;love at first sight&quot; or &quot;hate first, then love&quot; kinds].  Fourthly, the reasons for the family rift were entirely believable.<br />A point in Ms Huntington's favor is that she employs no external villains, and even her &quot;villains&quot; in the story have entirely believable and reasonable motives for acting as they do. And their villainies consist of small acts, not some major act such as blackmail, seduction, and murder, not to mention intrigue and mayhem.<br />The writing is sometimes patchy, and sometimes the plot really slows down.  But it was never so slow as to lose my interest, and I confess I prefer slowly developing stories.  The issues about unmarried couples writing to each other did not bother me, because it is clearly understood in the book (by the couples) that they are engaging in a clandestine act, that is not approved by society.  I found very few of the plot devices unbelievable, and the plot overall was very strong.  OK - the main characters were very sweet (and perhaps not appealing to those who prefer more alpha heroes), but the battling mothers more than made up for that.  As did the catty rival love interest who is so delighted that men are duelling over her...!<br />A very pleasant read - although I could not quite take to the secondary romance!  (I find it hard to believe that Robert and Madlyn can be happy together... but that is a problem for another book).s well-done, and we saw how it developed slowly. [I like this kind better than the &quot;love at first sight&quot; or &quot;hate first, then love&quot; kinds].  Fourthly, the reasons for the family rift were entirely believable.  <br />A point in Ms Huntington's favor is that she employs no external villains, and even her &quot;villains&quot; in the story have entirely believable and reasonable motives for acting as they do. And their villainies consist of small acts, not some major act such as blackmail, seduction, and murder, not to mention intrigue and mayhem.<br />The writing is sometimes patchy, and sometimes the plot really slows down.  But it was never so slow as to lose my interest, and I confess I prefer slowly developing stories.  The issues about unmarried couples writing to each other did not bother me, because it is clearly understood in the book (by the couples) that they are engaging in a clandestine act, that is not approved by society.  I found very few of the plot devices unbelievable, and the plot overall was very strong.  OK - the main characters were very sweet (and perhaps not appealing to those who prefer more alpha heroes), but the battling mothers more than made up for that.  As did the catty rival love interest who is so delighted that men are duelling over her...!<br />A very pleasant read - although I could not quite take to the secondary romance!  (I find it hard to believe that Robert and Madlyn can be happy together... but that is a problem for another book).	2001-04-16
US	50375720	R1A8VO4AYOXPYY	0821761560	745500094	The Captain's Courtship (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	False engagement plots are not my thing, but...	I did find this book somewhat appealing, although I confess to enjoying her second book THE LIEUTENANT'S LADY rather more.  What were my initial impressions?  Firstly, that it was a good read, although not a read that stuck in my mind.  This might have something to do with the false engagement plot device which is really not one of my favorite plots.  The premise is certainly interesting, given that the hero's reasons for persuading the heroine to agree to a fake courtship and then a false engagement are both noble and then ignoble.<br />Despite the charms of the various minor characters, I have to confess to some frustration, which I could articulate only after reading the sequel (see my review of that book).  Firstly, the mother is not just ambitious and vulgar, but she has absolutely no social sense whatsover. [The mother in Heyer's Cotillion comes across as positively respectable by comparison, which is saying something!].  While I can understand that legally and morally the daughters could not restrain the mother, yet their apparent inability to stop her extravagance as well as her social excesses was both shocking and frustrating, even though her faults advanced the plot.  The heroine was demure enough to refuse to take advantage of the hero as she could have done, but at the same time, not modest enough to express any regrets privately to her sister or to the hero about her mother's behavior.  I have to say that I found her younger sister Lydia more appealing as a potential heroine. <br />What I found hard to believe was that the heroine and her family use their hard-won resources towards the end of the book to make improvements on an estate that is not theirs.  We learn this only in the sequel, which comes as a shock, and which makes more sense of the mother's determination to marry off her eldest daughter well.  But I wish that information and some other family information had been made clearer first.  It would have made me more sympathetic to the mother'splight, and understand the heroine's dilemma better.<br />Basically a good read, if not entirely believable.  I cannot say that the plot really strains my credulity, but I found it hard to believe that the hero would care for the heroine that much, given how little she has chosen to share with him.  Also, while I understood his desire to return to the Peninsula, I could not really warm to him that much, especially when he becomes a little too credulous at the end.	2001-04-16
US	50375720	R2CJGVMPGLNRCV	0451195450	712626498	Miss Milton Speaks Her Mind (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Fascinating story with some minor problems...	This book was supposed to be Carla Kelly's last Regency (for all kinds of reasons) but fortunately, she has changed her mind.  This book - and a short story &quot;The Three Kings&quot; - remind me why I appreciate her work, although I admit to having read little of her backlist as yet.  <br />Carla Kelly specializes in unusual stories, with the settings well-researched.  This book is certainly unusual, in that the heroine is a poor relation who is taken for granted by her rich relations but the hero is not a young aristocrat but rather a mill-owner (i.e. an early industrialist).   We also read a lot about the heroine's state of mind which others call a depression (and I have to agree). <br />What I admire about this book is plenty.  First, the unusual choice of hero - a commoner and a middle-class person who is well over the typical age, being about 45.  (The heroine is about 30).  Second, the elements of mystery about both the heroine and hero's backgrounds, although the heroine's background is mostly revealed midway through the book.  Carla Kelly keeps dropping these tantalizing hints that we follow eagerly.  First we learn that Jane has been called home to help with the new baby Andrew, leaving us with the impression that this is the first time that she has seen her rich relations.  We learn the truth, that she has been at Denby for about 20 years, but has been far from appreciated by her relations.  We also learn about several terrible tragedies in her past.  Through these flashbacks (as recalled by the heroine, and in conversation with the hero and with a rather unusual butler), we begin to understand why the heroine Jane can describe herself as someone who keeps secrets.  There is certainly at least one potentially explosive family secret, namely the paternity of the young heir Andrew who has to be one of the most likeable children I have seen in any Regency romance.  But, as we learn, there is yet another secret lurking in the wings...<br />The descriptions of the marvellous winter holiday that Jane (our heroine) and her charge Andrew enjoy with the hero and his family are alone worth reading this novel for.  Where else but in a Carla Kelly would you find a house guest who takes over the planning of a magnificent dinner and gets introduced to two luminaries of the age? And young Andrew's preoccupation with the mills and the machinery is just so realistic... as is his delight in finding a friend of his age.  <br />Some caveats.  First, as one other reader has pointed out, the hero is referred to constantly as &quot;the mill-owner&quot;.  This does get irritating, unless we are meant to understand that this is the way that Jane thinks of him.  Secondly, we get relatively little about the hero's own background, beginning with the reason for his rather startling name Scipio (the name of a famous Roman commander).  It is appropriate given his interest in Latin and Roman civilization, but there is no hint of why his parents (his father being a pig-farmer in Yorkshire at some point) would come up with this somewhat unusual name either among the peasantry or among the mill-owning class of new industrialists they later join.  There is also absolutely no reference to what Scipio was doing for the first 30 years of his life, other than spending time at school (the first 18 years).  Does Carla Kelly hint at a misspent youth?  I have no idea.<br />Thirdly, there are some editing errors. For example, the villain of the piece - Lady Carruthers, a relative of the heroine Jane - is at least once referred to as Lady Denby.  There has been no Lady Denby.   <br />Somewhat more seriously, Carla Kelly obviously has not researched peerage and inheritance laws as carefully as she has researched the new Utilitarian and Utopian philosophies.  It is theoretically possible (but very unlikely) that a marquess's heir would be his sister's son, unless the title was created for that marquess with such a stipulation.  Therefore, Cecil Carruthers may beable to inherit the estate but not the title.  This point is never made clear.  Secondly, for English and British titles, a marquess is a marquess (only Scottish marquesses are &quot;marquises&quot;). <br />As for inheritance of titles, an illegitimate son of a peer cannot inherit, even if acknowledged by his father.  A new creation of title would have to be made for the son (as done for the son of Lord Egremont in the mid-19th century).  Finally, a child born to married parents is assumed to be the son of his mother's husband in this period (and even today).  If the son is not biologically that of his father, he is still usually legitimate.  This was especially true in the Regency period.  If Andrew were not the biological son of his mother's husband, only the next heirs or the House of Lords itself could challenge his succession.  And except in very rare cases (as when a peer's wife ran off with her lover, and had children who were acknowledged by this lover), such efforts were usually quite unsuccessful.  Thus, even if Andrew was not his legal father's son, he was both legitimate (by birth) and entitled to succeed with virtually no qualms.  These kinds of errors cast a small shadow on an otherwise brilliant story, and I mention them only because they are crucial to the secondary plot (that of Jane and her family) and somewhat important to the main story (the developing relationship between Jane and Scipio).	2001-03-18
US	50375720	R1A7EUHTYK6DP8	0449149242	964424528	Brighton Road/The Sugar Rose (2-in-1 Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A good value for light reading but not a keeper...	This was my first Susan Carroll book (a 2 book set actually), and it came right after reading Jo Beverley and a Heyer. So, consciously or otherwise, I was comparing this author with those authors. Be warned!  Because the story and character stuck so little in my mind nor made me feel as if I wanted to re-read it immediately, I rated this book and set of stories at a 3.  Others might rate it higher at least a 4.<br />The storylines and plots were OK, but I did not find them very compelling. What is wrong? Well, there are several unlikely plot elements, beginning with the fact that the heroine in Brighton Road is so naive as to be &quot;too stupid to live&quot;. The fact that she and her family are incredibly idealistic leads to a series of disasters. I did not even feel like laughing out, and I felt thoroughly sorry for the hero, as a result. Not that the hero is that attractive either. He is remarkably sober, has no idea of how to propose to or court a lady, and he is not that good a judge of character as he thinks. [This lead to one of the few highlights in the novel for me]. <br />The author does set some Gothic elements on their heads, notably the scene culminating in a boxing match involving the hero. What I could not understand was how the heroine continued to be so naive until almost the very end, or for that matter, how her parents were able to shrug off her social disgrace (not lightly done at the time!). Also, at that time, being a lady author with the Minerva Press was not something that most unmarried women were anxious to make public. This part of the story therefore rang false with me from the start, as did the heroine's past romantic history.<br />On the other hand, if you enjoy a light Regency read, with allowances made for some unrealistic elements, you will probably like this novel. It is certainly refreshing to meet a less-than-confident Regency hero.<br />About the Sugar Rose: This story describes the transformation of a frumpy &quot;old maid&quot; into an attractive young woman whom her fiance actually notices. There are several sub-plots, notably the loss of a ship by the hero, the desire for vengeance on the part of two secondary characters, and the heroine's growing disillusion with her fiance. What is most attractive about this story is the use of an overweight heroine who slims down in the first half of the story. For this unusual heroine, I award four and a half stars to Susan Carroll. <br />The second story is actually more absorbing on a re-read, perhaps because of the unusual heroine. <br />Although I have awarded the book three stars, this duo by Susan Carroll just might be one of your keepers. Take a look, and don't be put off by my own lukewarm feelings.  My problems are really with the fact that the stories did not attract me that much, and not with the quality of her writing.	2001-03-18
US	50375720	RU1TVMMA58SNZ	044022201X	389692285	After the Kiss (Captive Hearts)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Interesting take on Beauty and the Beast, but...	this book uses plot tricks that are completely ahistorical.  I picked it up intrigued by the plot.  I found the interaction between the hero and heroine interesting, but not completely compelling.  Why? The heroine was in love with another man, whose reluctance to marry her is not well-explained (except very briefly and never to the heroine). The hero's own secrets are also very murky.  While I like finding out about the past history of the main characters, I don't like having to drag through the text (not in a romance anyway).  And I found all three secrets - why the heroine's parents were estranged from her grandfather, why the heroine's love refused to marry her, and why the hero was so against marriage - all less than compelling.  Perhaps the reasons were weak, perhaps they were not well-explained, perhaps both.  Finally, while the heroine might be involved in the family scandal, I doubt that a mere disinheritance of the old earl (assuming that such an action was within his power) would cause such a scandal to reverbrate down the years.  Society was full of bigger scandals.  Perhaps it is Eliza's subsequent behavior that creates the scandal; certainly her being compromised by Marcus does.<br />I had real problems with the plot, with character development, and with the ahistorical elements.  The plot elements I had some problems with I have mentioned earlier.  The characters I found most compelling and realistic were oddly Julian (the heroine's first love and her cousin) and Lady Lavinia (her aunt).  The two girls were pretty but extraneous, and they took too much attention away from the hero and heroine.  Through the first half, I was not sure what kind of book I was reading - a romance between Marcus and Eliza, a romance between Julian and Eliza, a study of the relationship between Marcus and the rest of his family, or something else.  Uncertainty is good, but too much of it is not so great in a romance where certain elements are expected.<br />What I liked - the relationship developing between Marcus and Eliza, the realization that Julian and Eliza are wrong for each other (without Julian being a nasty person) and Eliza's own recognition of this only too late.  I also like the way Eliza struggles to bring Marcus back to his family, although I found both her behavior and that of Marcus rather off-putting at one point.<br />Some historical problems - firstly, the grandfather of the heroine is firstly called Earl of Sheringham and then called Earl of Ravenswood (or some such thing).  The author needs to be consistent here.  I assume it is the latter title.  There are other problems, which show the author's complete unfamiliarity with Regency England.  A peer cannot disinherit his heir;  Eliza's father would have been earl and she would have been Lady Elizabeth Sheringham if her father had outlived his father. [I assume this to be the case].  If a peer disappears and no body is located (or even an ordinary man disappears), some years' wait is required before the man is declared dead.  Marcus could not have become Duke, succeeding his brother immediately. Did anyone else find the two ducal titles to be similar?<br />BTW Julian, the heroine's first love and her cousin never actually marries her but dies at Waterloo. Eliza is therefore ruined, having been caught in a compromising position with Marcus, and not being married. [See review dated April 27, 2000].	2001-03-16
US	50375720	RXNV85DJS3EHC	0451167929	368541096	A Christmas Courtship (Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Magnificent setting, compelling beginning... although	I found that the rest of the story did not somehow live up to the beginning. We begin with observations by a merchant in Gloucester, and wonderful descriptions of the city and its environs. [In fact, this is one argument for reading the book; the author is a local resident and it shows!]. The heroine is young Blanche Amberley whose family has fallen on hard times, and whose lover Antony is not well-regarded by her family and friends. But wait - Blanche runs into the person who has acquired her old home, and whom she naturally hates. Here I do wish that we learned a bit more about their past history together, since we keep getting references to how they loathe each other since that time. This man, a dashing military commander invalided home from the Peninsular campaign, is engaged to a spoiled beauty. [I find some parts of her description and social position less than believable]. There follows a masterful depiction of how a smart but wicked woman can beguile her lover into seeing a different side of her than that she presents to her social inferiors. We learn enough to realize that the two will be wretched together, not that this bothers Blanche.<br />The problem with Blanche's situation is that her lover is pressuring her, and at the same time, her brother has been artfully decoyed into a trap designed to ruin him completely. The rest of the story is taken up with Blanche's efforts to vindicate her brother. One problem naturally is that the hero and heroine spend little time together, although he comes to appreciate both her loyalty to her family and her friends and her independence of spirit. She discovers almost too late that her lover is not what she thought him, and the way the hero disposes of this ex-lover is truly delightful.<br />I did not find the book plot contrived, and I really enjoyed the descriptions of city and country. Nevertheless, somehow the book's first two chapters (which are almost lyrical) did not prepare me for what was more a mystery/thriller than a romance. [Well, it is good to be shocked out of complacency but..]. <br />Why did I give this story only 4 stars? Firstly, because of the sudden shift in mood which really jarred on me. Secondly, because the hero and heroine spend so little time together and the ending feels rather hurried to me. I did not get a sense lastly that the hero and heroine were really in love, even though the heroine is shown rather more with him at the end. That is what makes the difference between a good book and a great book.<br />On the other hand, I tend to read Sandra Heath's books now mainly for her wonderfully lyrical descriptions of landscapes...	2001-03-16
US	50375720	R3RVETSL34UGD8	0451173600	643587311	A Christmas Promise (Signet)	Books	4	67	69	N	N	Tough start but unusual turn...	This story by Mary Balogh is the only one in which I have cried at the end, and I don't usually cry over books.  The book starts out unpromisingly with an aristocrat being blackmailed into marriage by a dying merchant.  He finds the merchant's daughter to be cold, title-obsessed, and unfeeling - and also surprisingly passionate.  She sees him as a gambler and a wastrel, and remembers only that he has shown her no love nor sympathy.  The marriage therefore starts off unpromisingly, especially when the father-in-law dies shortly afterward and the heroine refuses to wear mourning for longer than a month.  <br />However, both have severe misconceptions about each other.  The hero, Randolph, is not a wastrel.  The heroine, Eleanor, is not cold nor unfeeling.  How they come to these realizations without the usual Big Misunderstanding dominating the story-line is what I will leave you to discover.  Suffice it to say that there is a wonderful sled race, some rather amusing relatives of the bride, and no less than three minor romances that nevertheless do not take our attention away from Randolph and Eleanor as they struggle to a better understanding of each other.  <br />And as to why I cried? Well, it has something to do with why Eleanor did not cry at her father's death and what finally happens in the conservatory.    <br />There are no villains, just some remarkable misconceptions based on initial behavior at a very trying time. As such, this book is both refreshing and yet oddly touching. If I could find a copy of this book, it would be definitely a keeper.	2001-02-25
US	50375720	R3EI8OPCJ33E9G	0140282963	15823720	An Elegant Madness: High Society in Regency England	Books	2	138	143	N	N	Entertaining but far from accurate	Why does this book have such contradictory reviews from newspapers and magazines, compared to some of the readers?  I read this book last year, and again this year when I finally decided to acquire my own copy despite all the problems I had with the book.<br />Firstly, this book is indeed entertaining, with some very good sketches and with lots of interesting little snippets about the lives of the richest and noblest members of British society in the first decades of the 19th century.  It makes for a good read from that point of view, especially if you are more interested in the feel of how the &quot;ton&quot; or high society lived than in historical accuracy.<br />The book is not meant to be a history of the entire Regency period, and nor is it meant to be a political history.  On the other hand, I would have liked to have seen a little more reference to the major political figures of the day, given that politics was as important as economics to the aristocrats of the Regency period - even if they often chose to ignore both.  It is certainly a pity that there is little discussion of the Prince Regent's association with Fox and the Whigs, or for that matter on what was happening politically.  Even for a mostly social history of the elite, the omission of some major political events and trends is surprising.<br />I do have the same problems with the book that have been so elegantly expressed by others.  One of the things that shocked me was that Miss Murray claimed to have done all her research with first-hand sources and in fact thanks the staff at the Windsor Castle library and so forth.  The second thing that shocked me even more were the enconiums paid her by several eminent personages who should have noted some of the problems. Yes, she collected a vast array of data and an equally vast stock of anecdote and wove them into a light-hearted look at the Regency era.  But all the same, she makes some remarkable mistakes for someone who claims to have done all her research.<br />I found the index to be very frustrating, because everytime I tried to look up someone, that reference was useless.  Someone obviously slipped up here.  The author's references to peers and peeresses were also frequently inaccurate.  It may be pedantic of me to demand that she correctly identify a certain peer as Lord Yarmouth as the heir of the 2nd Marquess of Hertford.   But for those not conversant with the peerage (and even for some who are), such explanations are vital.   I also find it frustrating when an author casually mixes up two countesses of Jersey who are mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, with the elder being the royal mistress and the younger being the noted society hostess and arbiter of fashion.  Finally, in a book so strewn with names and references to this peer and that, an appendix with a list of the main personages who are mentioned in the book would have helped greatly.  [Or a detailed index].  For a good example of both, see the recent collection of the Churchill letters edited by his daughter Mary Soames.  <br />What are the merits of this book?   First, it is easy reading.  Second, it is still in print and relatively inexpensive.  Third, it includes several anecdotes about various peers, aristocratic ladies, and courtesans which certainly makes for interesting reading.  On the other hand, it is not the book to read if you really want to understand what was going on in high society or for that matter in the rest of English society.  Some other reviewers have recommended Stella Margetson, but her books are not easy to locate outside large university libraries.  J.B. Priestly's The Prince of Pleasure (not the eponymous Saul David book) is a good start but there are probably even better books.  For the gossip, I strongly recommend the originals (Creevey, Gronow, Greville and so forth), if you have the interest and the patience. Why not get the gossip from the source after all?	2001-02-01
US	50375720	R1Z34PRFUIR936	0373834438	90708502	Frederica	Books	5	35	35	N	N	My favorite Heyer	Like the reader from Seoul, I began reading Georgette Heyer around age 13. I quickly discovered Frederica, and in fact, tried to use a passage from the book for an elocution contest (unsuccessfully).  What is it about this book that stays with you over the ages?<br />I believe it is not just Georgette Heyer's wit, sparkling dialogue, careful historical research (despite the occasional error), or her lively characters.  Somehow this book transcends even her usual output.  Both the hero and heroine are older and more mature, with Frederica believing that she is fit only to be a chaperone.  The Marquess is bored, cynical, and shows more affection for his secretary than for any member of his family.  And of course, he values his horses above them all, as famously said by his sister.  While his intentions for taking up Frederica and her family are hardly benevolent, his continued interaction with her and her irrepressible younger brothers Felix and Jessamy gradually humanize him.  In that sense, this is the Heyer book closest in spirit to Pride and Prejudice, my all-time favorite.  Perhaps that is why I love them both.<br />There is a thrilling chase after a balloon which results in near-tragedy, the usual minor characters who act in ways designed to exasperate the hero and heroine, and two sub-plots with two other couples falling in love during the book.  The latter half of the book takes place with Frederica very preoccupied with family concerns.   If you want a book full of drama and chases, this might disappoint you.  However, this is the very part which shows me how much Alverstoke has changed.  The part about the pork jelly is priceless, but I will leave it to the reader to find that out.<br />In conclusion, if you like the mature Georgette Heyer with the older hero and heroine, this is probably going to become one of your favorites.	2001-01-26
US	50375720	R1XR3BGH32MAIO	0425176673	305148450	The Reeve's Tale (Sister Frevisse)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The best Frevisse yet	In my opinion, this is the best mystery in the Sister Frevisse series of mysteries. Why is this so? Well, firstly, there are several deaths, with the finger of suspicion pointing several ways. The identity of the guilty party is not certain until the end. [If you knew who it was without peeking, don't tell!].<br />Secondly, there are several sub-plots each with their own mysteries. There is the uncertain fate of the nunnery's steward who has been accused of being a serf and thus stands to lose his freedom - and that of his children. We do not know who accused him, and why. There is also the mystery about a certain very prosperous man in the village and his wife and family. What are his intents, and those of his wife? Was she really guilty of all that the village gossip alleged?<br />There are other puzzles to follow - such as who will get a certain piece of land, what will happen to the harvest, and so forth. The depiction of village life, which includes several scenes of cases being decided by the elders, is alone worth reading this novel for. It is rare that mystery novels set in the medieval era focus in such detail on the life of ordinary villeins (the proper term) and free peasants. <br />I look forward to reading more of Sister Frevisse's adventures. The series will not appeal to all, including those who are more knowledgeable about the period and/or tired of medieval mysteries using nuns or monks as sleuths. To enjoy this book, you must like medieval mysteries and enjoy reading about the nitty-gritty details of convent life (some of which can be less than pleasant).	2001-01-26
US	50375720	R2QAXAOH74PH0P	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good fun, but not in tune with the period	Julia Quinn's strengths in the books of hers I have read - the Bridgerton series - are her witty dialogue, her rakish but &quot;softy&quot; heroes and her independent heroines.  Her weakness is that her heroes and heroines sometimes behave and speak in ways more reminiscent of the 1990s rather than the 1810s (the Regency period).  <br />I have to agree that THE DUKE AND I is a great fun read.   I did &quot;get into&quot; the characters, their humor, and their relationships with each other.  And yes, I read it all through in one evening, and noticed the flaws only as I neared the end.   <br />However, I found some parts very hard to accept. For example, the tone of the conversations between the characters are not really Regency but very modern or post-modern. Much as I enjoyed the book, I cannot believe that some reviewers are comparing Julia Quinn to Jane Austen in terms of her accuracy in portraying the Regency period's conversation and the social elite.<br />There are some situations that also strain my credulity, such as the fact that Simon prefers to be thought of as a blackguard when he has hopelessly compromised his friend's sister. Would any man - even one so afraid of marriage and determined not to have children - still be prepared to lose all his friends? [That is what would have happened in real life. Making love to your friend's unmarried sister and then refusing to marry her was simply not done]. This is not even mentioned in the book.<br />Some minor things that bother me are: What happened to Simon's nanny, she who loved him and taught him to read etc? No mention of her after the first few pages. Amazing. <br />Also his maternal relatives are never mentioned. It is inconceivable that his mother's family and friends would take no interest in the child even at birth. If the Duchess and Duke were orphans coming from single-child families for generations, that would make sense. But there is nothing to place Simon in the context of a larger family, nor to show him as anything but the catch of the season as an unmarried Duke.<br />I have to admit that I do like the humor, and when I read the book simply for the story and the plot (as a generic period piece) it is a great fun read. Yes, I laughed out loud several times. <br />I really wanted to know more about the brothers, especially Benedict and Colin. And I have my own suspicions about who Lady Whistledown (the author of the little gossip snippets) is.<br />General recommendation - if you like a good fun read, with lots of witty dialogue, and with a lot of humor sometimes bordering on farce, this is a good book. If you like a strong modern heroine and a hero tortured by his unhappy relationship with his father, this is a good book as well. If you want the atmosphere to be right, and you don't like some inconsistencies, then this is probably not the book for you.<br />The book is not a keeper for me, but then I tend to be pickier in my Regencies than the average reader.  I rated this book at 4.3 (deducting points for insufficiently fleshing out Simon's background, and the other inconsistencies I mentioned earlier).	2001-01-22
US	50375720	R19DHW1D2FXVHR	0451195752	251049371	Autumn Vows (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nice premise but peters off....	The book starts out promisingly with Theodora, the eldest and most sensible Meredith daughter, talking to her lazy and once-again-pregnant mother over a letter sent by her father.  The situation of Theodora is intriguing - she is the eldest of a large family, the mother is lazy and cannot discipline her children or run her household, the father neglects his wife and family and prefers to live in London.  The younger children are real brats.  This then is the family that Lucas (an earl) chooses to marry into, based on a conversation overheard between Theodora and her cousin.  Unfortunately, an interesting premise (based a little on Pride and Prejudice IMO) deteriorates into a silly plot.  Would a sane and sensible man, even one desperate to marry before his birthday, really choose a bride based on one overheard conversation and not bothering even to be introduced to her?  Would such a man choose to marry into a family like the Merediths, with all the scandal that the father and younger children are likely to bring about?  Would Theodora's parents not have hired a house in London, rather than staying with her aunt - given that they are wealthy enough?  These and other implausibilities deteriorate from the plot.<br />The heroine has been described by another reviewer as a shrew, and yes, in at least one scene (where she is somewhat drunk) she rips up at the earl.  But the earl is no fine hero himself.  He marries a woman he hardly knows, he leaves her casually in the country, and so forth.  The scenes in the ducal seat are somewhat intriguing, although I found some of the conversations somewhat contrived.  [I also wondered what the duke had ever seen in his duchess, and in the re-reading, I discovered why another woman was suffering from depression].   <br />The scenes between the mother and the daughter (Theodora, our heroine) are interesting.  Still, I wondered how the mother had ever managed to run the household while Theodora was still young. Indolence and indulgence is one thing, incompetence is another.  It was at this point that I wondered why the earl had chosen Theodora, knowing about her father's lifestyle in London - and even allowing for her alleged wittiness and her mother's fertility.<br />The fact that the earl is so quickly besotten (OK in lust with) his bride is also a little hard to believe.  There is little lead-up to this - it is unbelievable to me at least that physical passion alone leads him to fall for a woman who apparently dislikes him and detests intimacy with him.<br />The scene where a heavily pregnant Fanny (Theodora's mother) and an equally heavily pregnant Eugenia (Theodora's sister-in-law) both travel to London borders on farce.  Surely, in that day and age, heavily pregnant women did not travel around the country whether to escape measles or because they were simply bored.  [The roads were terrible, travelling took a lot of time, and so forth].  <br />I found the ending somewhat contrived, even after Theodora delivers her new nephew.  The ending made me feel sorry for Eugenia's husband (despite his temporary joy) and also sorry for both Theodora and Lucas.  Although he has managed to wean Theodora away from her family, those relatives are going to continue to embarrass them.  I also did not get the sense that either of them was truly mature (as in realizing and understanding each others' flaws and merits) at the end.<br />A disappointing read overall, although I would not rate it as badly as some others I have read recently.	2001-01-22
