US	50403876	R3D3QPSODGLRE4	0325001936	806865691	Matching Books to Readers: Using Leveled Books in Guided Reading, K-3	Books	3	19	25	N	N	Concept is Good, but There are Problems.	Fountas and Pinnell, gurus of the \\"guided reading\\" approach to language arts and authors of the best-seller of the same name, have put out a much-needed resource for those schools which have a \\"literature-based program\\" and have \\"book rooms.\\" I skipped over the first portion of the book, which is merely a rehash of GUIDED READING.  The useful section is the list of children's books with their appropriate reading level (using their own system, but can be converted to other reading systems).  However, when writing a book of this nature it is imperative that the book be regularly updated.  This is not the case, unfortunately, so there are numerous trade books left out.  The teacher is left to his or her own judgment where the level should be (a very time-consuming process).<br />The other complaint is why the authors chose to have sections of books listed by title and then crossreferenced them by level.  The level section is absolutely worthless; furthermore, more than one person obviously has put the lists together for there are titles on the title list that aren't on the leveled list and vice versa.  There should be only ONE list, books listed by title.  Books also should have the author when it's clear there is an author.  Using the publisher or book series instead of an author is again useless.	2002-12-04
US	50403876	RJE70NDZ7VK6Z	0439163528	564286721	Teaching Phonics & Word Study in the Intermediate Grades: A Complete Sourcebook (Scholastic Teaching Strategies)	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	Just Bought the Book, and It's Already Dogeared	Fantastic book for teaching word study and phonics to intermediate grade students.  I teach reading in small groups, and there are many useful ideas for games and lessons.  Blevins also gives a fantastic overview of the importance of systematic, explicit phonics instruction for developing phonemic awareness, and also of linguistics, phonemes, phonograms, and spelling \\"rules,\\" none of which are emphasized enough in teachers' colleges nor in many school districts (especially those that are gung-ho about \\"whole language\\").  EVERY teacher, regardless of grade level, should have this book for the phonics discussion alone.  Blevins also provides word lists teachers can use for prefixes, suffixes, compound words, root words and word roots, and so forth.  This book is indispensable and much needed.	2002-12-04
US	50403876	R2O604FUXAHQBB	0325003076	218275888	Leveled Books for Readers, Grades 3-6: A Companion Volume to Guiding Readers and Writers	Books	3	41	47	N	N	Like the K-3 Book, This Concept is Worthwhile but ...	there are problems.  Fountas and Pinnell are the leading gurus of the \\"guided reading\\" approach used in many language arts elementary school classes across the country.  The first section of the book, like their K-3 book MATCHING BOOKS TO READERS:  USING LEVELED BOOKS IN GUIDED READING, K-3, is a rehash of their best-selling GUIDED READING.  The rest of it, the most useful part of it, is the leveled book list to which their system can be converted to other reading systems.  Unfortunately, books of this nature have to be updated often because of the sheer number of children's books published each year.  Many are left out, so the teacher must take the time to level the books using his or her own judgment.  Furthermore, listing the books by title and also by reading level are merely confusing, and some books are not listed in both sections.  I would scrap the leveled list in future editions.  Listing all of the books by title with their level is all that is necessary.	2002-12-04
US	50403876	R5HUMQFHP6KIS	1571103104	463711190	Strategies That Work: Teaching Comprehension to Enhance Understanding	Books	4	41	45	N	Y	Not Bad, With Some Good Information	I found this book very useful for teaching reading in my small groups.  The authors give some good ideas for classroom teachers to use \\"authentic literature\\" in order to teach reading comprehension which can include newspapers and magazines.  The appendices are worth the price of the book.  The only reason I downgraded it a bit is the authors could have done away with some of the whole language rhetoric about traditional basals and basic skills being \\"boring.\\"  This is nonsensical and detracts somewhat from the general usefulness of the book.	2002-12-04
US	50403876	R33B7E8H1O0MOC	0435072374	965080519	Mosaic of Thought: Teaching Comprehension in a Reader's Workshop	Books	1	35	52	N	Y	Too Much Mumbo Jumbo and Not Enough Practical Information.	In the foreward of this book, published by one of the leading whole language publishers in the country, Donald Graves summarizes what MOSAIC OF THOUGHT is about:  \\"Each chapter begins with texts...the authors apply various reading skills, from schema to synthesis, to enrich their own reading and quest for learning.  The authors then take the same skill inside the classroom, where superior teachers show how they teach the skill with their children.  We meet teachers and children in the process of learning to read and, above all, comprehend.\\"  And, I would add, boring the reader to death with layers of padding.<br />MOSAIC OF THOUGHT is typical of the flaky writings published by Heinemann, but this one is much worse than most.  The authors could have taken the key ideas and strategies from each chapter of the book as well as some of the appendices, added a couple of vignettes to illustrate the strategies, and turned in a reasonably effective piece for publication in reading journals.  Unfortunately, the authors go on and on and on about their personal reflections over books or movies that they have read or seen while the reader frankly couldn't care less what the authors think of Omar Sharif or Ben Bradlee.  I suppose the authors are trying to make their theories about reading comprehension and reader's workshop relevant to the unfortunate person who has to read this material for inservice, but they fail miserably.<br />Furthermore, I suspect the reason the authors go on and on and on with these vignettes is to cover up the fact there isn't a whole lot of research out there to support their ideas.  They keep writing \\"the research says\\" this or that, but there is very little in the way of citations to back up their claims.  The bibliography is similarly scanty, with many of the books listed actually being trade books.<br />As a teacher, if I want to read something about teaching reading, I want it to be practical, useful, and not least backed up by solid research and citations that I can look up for further reading.  I have very little patience or time to read something that reads like a poor imitation of a dime store novel.	2002-12-02
US	50403876	R1OQQUP2ZDJHP7	0745318460	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy: An Investigative Reporter Exposes the Truth About Globalization, Corporate Cons, and High Finance Fraudsters	Books	3	13	61	N	N	Sincere But Sloppy	Greg Palast is a well-known American-born reporter who has spent most of his career reporting for the British media.  He is best-known among political watchers as the reporter who broke the story on the purging of the voter rolls in Florida, helping to make the presidential election there in 2000 much closer than it should have been.  This story is covered in the first section, titled &quot;Jim Crow in Cyberspace.&quot;  This section is perhaps the strongest in the book and the one readers will most likely be interested in.<br />There are other sections in this book of interest to readers, including chapters on globalization and an especially good section about televangelist CEO Pat Robertson's diamond interests.<br />Unlike other reviewers, I cannot give this book a higher rating.  The main problem with it is the sloppiness on the part of the editors if there were any at all on this book.  There are numerous spelling and punctuation errors, for example.  Was the proofreader/editor (assuming there was one) aware that the title &quot;Dr.&quot; has a period after the &quot;r&quot;?  Sometimes the commas and periods are inside the quotation marks and sometimes they are outside the quotation marks.  Now this may seem trivial to some readers, but I found it seriously hampers any reading of the book.  It detracts from Palast's message.  I know the book is published by an obscure publisher who apparently couldn't afford to have a professional editor go over the manuscript.  But I feel a writer of Palast's reputation should at least care that his book presents a professional appearance.  After all, if a writer wants to be taken seriously as a professional, he or she must present their work in a professional manner or see to it his or her editor does.	2002-07-25
US	50403876	R2HNV11XFL1JNQ	0786867663	116706867	Creating a Life: Professional Women and the Quest For Children	Books	1	20	27	N	N	The Flop of the Year	Despite all of the hype in the media over Hewlett's book it, like her similar tome A LESSER LIFE: THE MYTH OF WOMEN'S LIBERATION IN AMERICA, is a flop in terms of sales. Hewlett, as some remember, wrote A LESSER LIFE during the middle of the Reagan years, when books urging \\"accomplished\\" women to give up their careers in favor of husbands and children were quite popular, at least with the media. Hewlett received much deserved criticism for her antifeminist thesis from feminists like Betty Friedan and especially Susan Faludi, the latter showing in her book BACKLASH Hewlett had a tendency to disregard the truth.<br />Years have passed and although Hewlett has gotten some positive recognition in some quarters for her advocacy for parents' rights in the workplace, she hasn't changed one bit in her hostility towards feminism and women who don't fit the prescribed marriage-and-babies mold. She also hasn't changed in her disregard for facts and statistics. A recent article in the American Prospect magazine discredits Hewlett's book in general and her dubious statistics in particular (among other facts the author of the A.P. article notes that \\"highly accomplished\\" women differ no more than other working women in marriage rates or in having children, except elite single women are much less likely to have children out of wedlock). Readers who are interested in Hewlett's thesis might want to take a look at this article before shelling out the money for her latest screed.<br />Hewlett puts on a pretty good front by claiming she's a \\"feminist\\" because she advocates social policies that are politically untenable in the United States, but everything else she writes belies her \\"feminism.\\" The antifeminist feminist schtick is a good act, and it's helped her over the years with the media, but more sophisticated readers (especially those who are familiar with the women's movement and career issues) will immediately see through her facade. Furthermore, her elitism offends 90 percent of American women because they are not \\"high achievers\\" (by default they are \\"low achievers,\\" an insult if there ever was one) making six-figure salaries and working in male-dominated fields. At the same time she has offended 90 percent of the ten percent who are in the elite fields by saying they've messed up on their personal lives. Not a good way to sell books, Ms. Hewlett.	2002-06-19
US	50403876	RCG6WLD17YZ53	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	20	25	N	N	This book could be called	\\"The Real David Brock\\" or \\"The Seduction of David Brock,\\" depending on one's opinion of the author. Brock, once a leading hatchet man for the right wing who later had second thoughts about his \\"exposes\\" of Anita Hill and Bill and Hillary Clinton, among others, has written an insider's account of the far right and his estrangement from it.<br />Brock grew up being a liberal Democrat who had idolized Robert F. Kennedy and whose first presidential vote was for Jimmy Carter in 1980. He attended U.C. Berkeley because it was seemingly the center of liberalism; however, some of the things he witnessed at Berkeley belied the belief that Berkeley was the \\"free speech\\" capital of academia. He became disappointed in what he believed was \\"political correctness\\" on the campus, and finally he veered away from most of liberalism toward conservatism. He also became interested in becoming a journalist and began working for some local publications. Upon graduation Brock moved to Washington, D.C., first working for the Sun Myung Moon-owned Washington Times, and later working for a conservative think tank, the Heritage Foundation. Brock was moving up in the world of right-wing politics despite being a gay man in an anti-gay political movement. He tried to fit in although he never really did.<br />Brock was one of many young people who turned to conservatism in the 1980s, and he was one of many who became prominent. He notes that while Reagan was popular among the young conservatives, it was Newt Gingrich and his slash-and-burn style of politics that galvanized the young. Brock also made important political connections, most prominently Judge Larry Silberman and his wife Ricky, who served as Brock's surrogate parents. Eventually Brock's reporting talents and his passionate belief in the \\"movement\\" (as Brock calls it) lead him to write a best-selling book critical of Anita Hill and supportive of Clarence Thomas and a plum reporting assignment for the Richard Mellon Scaife-backed AmericanSpectator magazine. Both gigs brought Brock considerable fame and money, and his infamous \\"Troopergate\\" article for the American Spectator was the spark that led to the Paula Jones sexual harassment lawsuit against Bill Clinton which nearly toppled his presidency.<br />But there was a problem with all of this success in Brock's hindsight. Brock felt he was so blinded by partisan zeal that he never felt compelled to look at all sides of the story; his employers didn't help matters by not fact-checking his work. There were numerous errors in the Anita Hill tome, as other reporters and columnists noted, and his sources for his \\"Troopergate\\" article were called into question. It wasn't long before Brock's conscience got the better of him. He began to veer away from the conservative movement. The final straw was when Brock decided to write a book about Hillary Clinton. His more even-handed approach, while admirable, cost him considerable support among his conservative backers. He eventually broke away from the conservative movement altogether, and he publicly apologized to the Clintons for Troopergate and repudiated his Anita Hill book.<br />While ostensibly a memoir, Brook's book gives the reader an account of an era from the vantage point of one who was inside it. Brock knew many of the players in the right-wing cabal that tried to undermine Bill Clinton's presidency: Ted Olson, Ann Coulter, Laura Ingraham, C. Boyden Gray, George Conway, and R. Emmett Tyrell are only a few of the many people Brock knew during his time with the far right. While Brock is not flattering to most of these and other players, he does give a sense of what these people were like. Furthermore, Brock gives the reader a first-person account of the so-called Arkansas Project, financed by the American Spectator and involving payments to Whitewater witness David Hale, which is sharply different from the recollections of current Solictor General Ted Olson. Brock also gives his account of his attemptsto try and undermine the veracity of a competing book about the Thomas/Hill hearings for a book review; his underhanded techniques were doubtless a low point of his career. Sometimes Brock's vignettes are funny, as in his meeting with Armstrong Williams; other times his recollections are very painful, even disgusting, to read, such as his Anita Hill debacle. All in all, Brock's book is an easy, engaging read.<br />Brock must have been stung by the comment of then-columnist for the New York Times Anthony Lewis, who described Brock's Anita Hill book as \\"sleaze with footnotes,\\" for Brock fails to provide footnotes and an index for this book. However, this book cries out for footnotes and an index, and this is the major complaint I have with this book.<br />Despite this, Brock's book perfectly complements Gene Lyons and Joe Conason's book about the get-Clinton cabal, THE HUNTING OF THE PRESIDENT, and his first-person account also complements Michael Lind's UP FROM CONSERVATISM. As such this book is highly recommended.	2002-03-06
US	50403876	RVH0EE8I0MIBC	0740719408	203895782	Teachers	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A Nice Coffee Table Book for the Teacher in Your Life	This is an overall well-done book praising teachers, those unsung heroes and heroines of society who do so much but are often unappreciated.  The authors crisscrossed the country to find teachers who went the extra mile for their students, and these teachers expressed in a myriad of ways what inspired them to teach, and why they still teach.  Some are famous, while most are unknown teachers.<br />The concept for this book is admirable.  Sometimes, however, I got the feeling the authors went more for the unusual or unique rather than perhaps the appropriate.  At least one teacher profiled shouldn't have been included in this book, for she used her classroom as a springboard for a partisan political campaign for the House of Representatives.  In this reviewer's view, partisan political activity on the taxpayer dime is simply not ethical.  In the case of teachers, it is even worse because of the nature of the profession.  A teacher has to be careful at all times to not use the classroom as a soapbox for his or her political viewpoints.  What this particular teacher did was beyond the pale, for she actually ran for office and had her students work on her behalf.  It matters not whether the parents gave their okay, it matters not that she had little chance of beating the incumbent, and it also matters not whether the administration gave its approval.  Somebody dropped the ball by allowing this, and it is a miracle the teacher wasn't called on the carpet by the school board.  I work both as a teacher in a private school and as a public sector employee, and I know that if I even wore a political button at either place of employment, I would at least be reprimanded.  There are ways to teach children about the political process through a &quot;hands-on&quot; approach, but this teacher's approach isn't it.<br />This tendency to include the unusual rather than the inspirational is the only problem with this book.  Otherwise, it is a well-made, well-written book that is ideal for teachers and for those who are interested in going into the field.	2002-01-09
US	50403876	RA76DXUIT2FMB	158150070X	264873703	At the Wire: Horse Racing's Greatest Moments	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Splendid overview of racing's greatest hits	Racing fans should own this book by the outstanding turf writer Edward Bowen.  He provides a comprehensive look at some of the most famous racing moments in the twentieth century, not only the great but the infamous (the 1933 &quot;fighting finish&quot; Kentucky Derby) as well.  Great racing moments such as Man O'War's duel with John P. Grier in the 1920 Dwyer Stakes, Phar Lap's famous win at the 1932 Agua Caliente Handicap (his last before dying somewhat mysteriously), Secretariat's 1973 Belmont, Affirmed and Alydar's 1978 Belmont, the triple dead heat 1944 Carter Handicap, and the celebrated Jaipur/Ridan Travers of 1962 are among the profiled.  <br />Bowen has a real feel for the subject matter, and he gives the reader the background of each race and even provides the charts for each race.  There are also numerous photographs in this book, which is printed on high quality paper.<br />Bowen leaves out very few of racing's greatest moments.  Two that are omitted are the 1976 Marlboro Cup (Forego barely winning over Honest Pleasure) which Bowen does mention briefly, and the great 1978 Jockey Gold Cup, where Seattle Slew gallantly and unsuccessfully tried to defeat Exceller.  There's also a tiny bit of bias in this book, as is expected.   Bowen seems a bit defensive in a couple of places with regard to Man O' War and Secretariat.  According to him, &quot;polls&quot; supposedly crown Man O'War the greatest horse of this century, even above Secretariat.  He doesn't really tells us which polls, of which there is only one that this reviewer is aware of, which the publisher Blood Horse conducted among 7 alleged experts and was published in a book about the top 100 North American racehorses of the 20th century.  These &quot;history savvy&quot; experts, it seems to Bowen, know the truth that Big Red I was the best, and never mind the record or recollections of racetrackers and writers who saw both Man O' War and Secretariat and said the latter was greater.  Frankly, I put mytrust in the recollection of the dean of turf writers, Charles Hatton, who unhesitatingly called Secretariat not only the greatest he had seen but &quot;the greatest horse anybody has ever seen.&quot;  He saw both horses run, and the panelists didn't.  (Furthermore, one of the panelists didn't even rank Secretariat in the top 10, and this was the real reason Man O' War finished ahead.  As a result, no racing fan takes the Blood Horse poll seriously.)<br />But this is a minor quibble in a book full of information and great photographs.  This is an ideal coffee table book.	2001-12-03
US	50403876	RYHCI0CK4NEO3	0876501587	577057406	Jailhouse Rock: The Bootleg Records of Elvis Presley, 1970-1983 (Rock and Roll Reference Series, 8)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent resource, needs to be updated	I have had this book for many years, and as of the publication date it was the most complete source available for the illegal recordings of Elvis Presley.  Cotten and Dewitt must have heard every single Elvis bootleg record ever issued, and the authors provide information of when the recordings were made, the packaging, and highlights of each record.  The book is a consumer guide of sorts directing collectors to the best bootlegs available.<br />Of course, the main problem with this book is that it is close to twenty years old.  I would like to see an updated book, which would include CD issues.	2001-11-23
US	50403876	R1P127S8LCIT7I	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	The Original Racetrack Cinderella Story	Laura Hillenbrand is a wordsmith of the top rank.  She has written a great book about a horse who has largely been forgotten except by veteran racing fans:  Seabiscuit.  Seabiscuit, a descendent of the legendary Man O' War, had a rather modest racing career at the beginning having started from the claiming ranks. Thanks to a great trainer, he galloped his way up to the stakes level after having literally dozens of races under his girth.   Seabiscuit was not the only colorful character in this claimer-to-champion saga. His trainer Tom Smith was a controversial character who loathed publicity and yet at the same time encouraged it.  For example, Hillenbrand's stories of Smith's attempts to thwart the media and racing timers from reporting Seabiscuit's workouts (because Smith feared the weights assigned by the track would be so great as to hamper the horse's considerable ability) are hilarious.  Seabiscuit's regular jockey, Red Pollard, was a man who loved to quote Shakespeare but also had to cover up a disability that may have contributed to one of Seabiscuit's most famous losses:  Pollard was blind in one eye.  Like most jockeys he battled a weight problem.  (In one chapter, Hillenbrand writes brilliantly and humorously of the struggle of jockeys like Pollard to make the unnaturally low weights required of racing.) Finally, Seabiscuit's millionaire owner, Charles Howard, was perhaps the least colorful of the horse's connections, but he lost faith in neither Smith nor Pollard.  He was the glue who held this unlikely hodgepodge together.<br />Hillenbrand slowly but very entertainingly works the Seabiscuit story to the legendary 1938 match race with yet another descendent of Man O' War, 1937 Triple Crown winner War Admiral.  She doesn't ignore the Admiral's connections either.  Sam Riddle comes to life, as do the horse's infamous temper tantrums on the racetrack.  There are constant difficulties in getting the two great horses together on the same track on the same day,including jockey Pollard's injuries (vividly described by Hillenbrand), Seabiscuit's injuries, and other delays.  When the horses finally do get together (with the underdog Seabiscuit clobbering the Admiral), Hillenbrand writes with such vividness that you feel you are right there at the track witnessing the race.  (She was fortunate enough to have obtained rare footage of this race and several other Seabiscuit races.)<br />After the climax of this famous race, Hillenbrand continues the Seabiscuit saga to the deaths of the principals.  On the last page she writes of Howard having buried Seabiscuit to a secret site at his ranch where he had an oak sapling planted where the great horse was buried.  She writes:  &quot;He told only his sons the location of the grave and let the oak stand as the only marker.  Somewhere in the high country that was once Ridgewood, the tree lives on, watching over the bones of Howard's beloved Seabiscuit.&quot;<br />What a great writer.  What a read.	2001-10-29
US	50403876	R10H0WBQPMPM2M	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good if somewhat flawed investigative piece	Writer Barbara Ehrenreich (&quot;The Hearts of Men,&quot; &quot;The Worst Years of Our Lives,&quot; etc.) a couple of years ago decided to leave her middle class background for a few months and find out first hand what life is like for &quot;the other America,&quot; i.e., the working poor. What she reports in &quot;Nickle and Dimed&quot; is depressing but not at all surprising or new, especially if the reader has or is working in low-paid work. Ehrenreich began her low wage odyssey in Florida, then to Maine, and finally in Minnesota. She worked at a variety of jobs, including waitress, cleaning worker, nursing home employee, and Wal-Mart salesperson. She, like anybody else who is sole supporting and working for substandard wages, found that she had to work two jobs just to survive. She found in addition to being tired all the time, she was treated with virtually no respect by her employers. Her experiences will sometimes make the reader laugh, but more likely make the reader angry that the workers who make our economy work by doing the back-breaking labor get treated like dirt.<br />Fortunately for Ehrenreich, at the end of her odyssey she went back to her comfortable lifestyle. Unfortunately for us, we have no idea whatever became of the people she met along the way, those who do not possess a Ph.D. like Ehrenreich and are destined to spend the remainder of their working lives in the substandard wage economy. The fact that Ehrenreich isn't truly a member of the working poor is the major problem with this otherwise excellent, well-written book. This reviewer believes the book would have been much better had the author spent time actually interviewing people who do this work day in and day out, year after year and then shared their stories.<br />Such a book about low-wage workers, especially women workers in traditionally female occupations, has been written before and better some twenty-five years ago by Louise Kapp Howe in her book titled &quot;Pink Collar Workers.&quot; Unlike Ehrenreich, Howe didn't pretend to be one of the subjects but instead got first-hand accounts of those who actually did the work. Ehrenreich should have done the same by interviewing both men and women stuck in the low-wage economy.	2001-09-09
US	50403876	R1E8JV0NEGUBMM	0393041832	967454060	The Bush Dyslexicon: Observations on a National Disorder	Books	4	41	47	N	N	It'll make you laugh, it'll make you mad	In this book Miller tries to give some context to and make some sense of George W. Bush's numerous gaffes and malapropisms. Miller argues that the elevation of such an ignorant individual to the highest office of the land is the end result of a nation afflicted with a &quot;dyslexia&quot; or &quot;amnesia&quot; thanks to television. We shouldn't believe our eyes or our ears as to how unfit Bush is because the media (with big help from Bush advisors like Karl Rove) have told us otherwise. The media also spun Bush's opponent Al Gore as being something Gore really wasn't while Bush's policies, background, and shady business deals were swept under the rug. The media spun the election contest in favor of Bush while misrepresenting the Gore team's motives. The media spin of Bush continues to this day. The selection of George W. Bush as president was a triumph of propaganda over reality, to sum up Miller's view. This book is the most complete source of Bush's misstatements, lies, malapropisms, and gaffes available. Miller provides numerous quotes from a wide variety of sources, especially key points of the presidential debates (which the hopelessly overmatched Bush supposedly won or drew even, according to media spin) and of the Sunday morning public affairs programs. Another strength of this book is the part where Miller compares George W. Bush with other presidents in history who were not considered very intellectual, either. Bush doesn't measure up to the likes of Zachary Taylor, Warren Harding, or Millard Fillmore. Bush, according to Miller, doesn't even measure up to his own father (also quoted extensively) or to former VP Dan Quayle. When one finishes reading this book, it makes him or her wonder how in the world anybody could have voted for such an empty suit. Miller tries to argue that there's a conscious or unconscious method to Bush's &quot;madness,&quot; but this reviewer questions whether Bush is really that clever. The main drawback to this book is that it washastily written. Miller put aside the book he was writing to write this book instead. Another, but perhaps minor, drawback is that Miller claims not to be partisan, boasting he voted for Nader who in this reviewer's view was part of the problem. Bush would not have been as close to winning the presidency had Nader bowed out. The book would not have been written in the first place, but Miller fails to make the connection. All in all, though, this book is a documented answer to those who are dazzled by Bush's Ivy League background and blueblood pedigree and deny the obvious intellectual shortcomings of our current resident in the White House.	2001-08-25
US	50403876	R1RFQU1LR66GTB	0826308791	705634002	The Education of Little Tree	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Recommended as a curio	This is the infamous book that fooled many people then and now.  After the author's death, &quot;Forrest&quot; Carter, the so-called Native American, was revealed to be actually Asa or Ace Carter, George Wallace's speechwriter (most notably Wallace's &quot;Segregation Forever&quot; speech).  That has been confirmed.<br />If the reader bears that in mind, he or she may enjoy the book.  I regard it more as a curiousity piece.	2001-07-28
US	50403876	R37D58COJN2EGI	1572434139	447168607	Breeders' Cup: Thoroughbred Racing's Championship Day	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Racing Fans Will Enjoy This Book	I received my long-awaited copy of this book, and I must say I enjoy it very much.  This is a coffee table book with numerous beautiful color photographs of the races from the Breeders' Cup inaugural (1984) to the present.  The triumphs, the tragedies (for example, Go For Wand's breakdown and death in the 1990 Breeders' Cup Distaff), and the upsets (such as Arcangues' longshot win in the 1993 Classic) are beautifully chronicled in this book.<br />The only thing preventing me from giving it five stars was that it was a little bit on the skimpy side with regard to the commentary.  I always enjoy good commentary as well as beautiful pictures in any oversized book.  It is still a worthwhile purchase, however.	2000-10-28
US	50403876	RIRS64FTGL63P	0451201086	491306095	Diana in Search of Herself: Portrait of a Troubled Princess	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Diana on the Couch	Although I am not a diehard \\"Di\\" fan, I was impressed with Sally Bedell Smith's previous biography on Pamela Harriman, REFLECTED GLORY.  I expected another well-written biography with Smith trying to place Diana in the context of her times.<br /><br />While most of the book is quite well-written and perhaps the most factual account of Diana's life, unfortunately Smith, who is not in any way a psychiatrist or an expert in psychiatric disorders, veers from writing a straight biography and plunges headlong into diagnosing Diana's problems.  Diana may not have been the most emotionally stable person who ever lived, but she was barely out of her teens when she was thrust into the spotlight with her marriage to Prince Charles.  She had a hard time dealing with it as would almost anybody else in her shoes.  The problem with Smith's account of the princess' problems is she seems so certain she knows what made Diana tick and why she had problems.  Speculation is always a risky endeavor, and Smith does not help her credibility by trying to put Diana on the couch.<br /><br />If Smith had dispensed with the amateur psychiatry, this book might have merited five stars.<br /><br />Edited October 30, 2014:  I have just reread this book, and I have decided to rate it higher than my original review.  My current review would be 4 1/2 stars, if it were possible to have 1/2-star ranks, with a demerit for the armchair psychiatry, although Smith presents ample evidence her subject was not mentally well.  The reason I rate it higher today is that so much of what we thought we knew about the Princess of Wales and her marriage to Prince Charles was not the truth, that she manipulated the media perhaps more than the other way around.  It just floors me she ever cooperated with the likes of Andrew Morton (he was basically her stenographer) for \\"Diana: Her True Story\\"  and Martin Bashir in the disastrous \\"Panorama\\" interview which displays her mental problems for all the world to see.  It also astounds me that her \\"version\\" of events, which was NOT the truth, is still widely believed.  I highly recommend people who may have panned this book originally re-read it.  It's probably the closest to a definite portrait of the Princess of Wales as we will ever get.astounds me that her \\"version\\" of events, which was NOT the truth, is still widely believed.  I highly recommend people who may have panned this book originally re-read it.  It's probably the closest to a definite portrait of the Princess of Wales as we will ever get.	2000-10-21
US	50403876	R12951HSA66KPW	1581500548	492342019	Dynasties; Great Thoroughbred Stallions	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Excellent Book on the Great Sires of the Twentieth Century	Edward Bowen has done it once again with having written a marvelous book about the great sires of the twentieth century and their influence upon the thoroughbred breed.  All of the important sire lines are included, such as Nearco, Northern Dancer, Princequillo, Mr. Prospector, Hail to Reason, Nasrullah, Bull Lea, and, in this reviewer's opinion, the greatest sire of them all, Bold Ruler.  Bowen gives a detailed biography of each sire and that horse's important descendants.<br />An added bonus is a section of charts in the back of the book of each sire's male line and the important winners from each of those lines.  For example, the chart for Bold Ruler shows all of his male line ascendants, and his important descendants.  One descendant, Bold Bidder, has under his name the important race horses Spectacular Bid and Cannonade, and Cannonade in turn sired Caveat who in turn sired Awad and Ops Smile.  What is nice about the charts is that they instantly show how so few sires have had so much influence on thoroughbred racing.<br />I highly recommend this book and the companion book MATRIARCHS.	2000-10-07
US	50403876	RJ80T9D4UEEQ1	0743214781	636848454	Is Our Children Learning?: The Case Against George W. Bush	Books	4	158	203	N	Y	Readable, Persuasive, if Partisan Case Against G.W. Bush	Paul Begala's brief, partisan, but highly readable and very persuasive tome on George W. Bush reminds this reviewer of some of James Carville's  books.  The saving grace of this book is that unlike all of the Bush  biographies, it is brief, yet well-documented.  <br />Begala looks at Bush not  only at his background as governor of Texas, but most importantly, looks at  where Bush stands on various issues and why his stands are not in the best  interests of America.  Issues discussed include Social Security reform,  education, environment, foreign policy, the death penalty, and health care.   The book is designed to help the voter make an informed decision on  whether or not Bush deserves to be president.<br />Begala spends relatively  little time on Bush's personal and business scandals, with the exception of  the little-reported &quot;missing year&quot; of 1972-1973, when Bush  evidently did not report for Air National Guard duty.  It is important only  in that the media have focused in so much microscopic detail every movement  of Bill Clinton's life, yet George W. Bush's life remains largely  unexplored.  Outside of this, the book stays focused on the  issues.<br />Recommended for all those interested in the upcoming election and  for those who may not have made a decision on the choice for president.	2000-09-17
US	50403876	R1CYC27NYPDSBS	1581500432	907493094	Dr. Fager: Thoroughbred Legends	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Outstanding Book on One of Racing's Greats	This book is the second in the BLOOD HORSE series on racing legends.  It  does not disappoint.  It is a marvelous biography about one of the all-time  great racehorses.  Dr. Fager was one of the fastest racehorses to have ever  lived.  His one-mile record stood for nearly 30 years, but he was much more  than a mere sprinter.  What was even more incredible about the horse was  the fact he carried a tremendous amount of weight and STILL was able to run  so fast.  He ran against some of the all-time racing greats including  Damascus and Buckpasser.  Yet, as Haskin points out, Dr. Fager was very  fragile and had a tendency to get colic.  (The horse ultimately died of a  ruptured stomach at the age of only 12.)<br />Haskin does a great job  describing Dr. Fager's most important races.  His descriptions are the next  best thing to having seen the races themselves.<br />I highly recommend this  book and all of the others in the series.	2000-09-03
US	50403876	RVDGYHHIR7GT5	1581500408	464125573	Man o' War (Thoroughbred Legends)	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Great Bio of &quot;The Mostest Hoss&quot;	This book is the first in a series of biographies of famous racehorses  published by BLOOD HORSE magazine.  This first volume, on Man O' War, is  excellent.  Bowen discusses not only Man O' War's life and career, he also  discusses Big Red's pedigree and the backgrounds of his connections such as  owner Sam Riddle, breeder August Belmont II, and trainer Louis  Feustel.<br />This book, like the others in the series, is small in size but  big in content.  I was so impressed with this book that I plan to buy all  the rest of the books in the series.  If you're a racing fan, you will also  want this book.	2000-08-26
US	50403876	R289FJDDM5IGII	156554465X	288922701	Kentucky Derby Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	For All Kentucky Derby Fans	This book, one of five in a series, was written by the late, great Jim  Bolus, &quot;Mr. Kentucky Derby.&quot;  He also frequently wrote articles  in the annual Kentucky Derby souvenir magazine.  Bolus knew EVERY  conceivable bit of trivia about the race.  He wrote about the horses, the  history of the race, the people behind the scenes.<br />Included in this  volume is a chapter on Affirmed and Alydar, a chapter on Col. Matt Winn,  the man who made the Kentucky Derby what it is today, a chapter on black  jockeys, a chapter on Ben Jones, and a wonderful chapter on the worst  horses to run in the Derby.<br />EVERY fan should have this and the other four  books.	2000-08-20
US	50403876	R260E7UW30032H	1565540409	81200277	Remembering the Derby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Wonderful Book by the Late Jim Bolus	REMEMBERING THE DERBY is the second book in the five-book series written  by the late Jim Bolus, the man who knew all the stories and all the trivia  of the great race.  Like the other books, this is a must-have for racing  fans.<br />Included in this volume is a chapter on Flip Sal, a horse who was  injured in the centennial running of the Derby in 1974, another on Sir  Barton, the first Triple Winner, one on Northern Dancer (1964), a chapter  on the 1957 Kentucky Derby in which Bill Shoemaker misjudged the finish  line, and who could forget to read about Silky Sullivan?<br />Your racing  library would be incomplete without the Bolus series.	2000-08-20
US	50403876	R14JEFU400XQ3P	0962936022	979042812	The First Days of School: How to Be an Effective Teacher	Books	2	250	315	N	N	There are Better Books for First -Year Teachers	Harry Wong has a very good reputation as a motivational speaker for teachers.  I have heard so much about this book that I felt I needed to buy  a copy.  Unfortunately, I did not feel the book lived up to its hype.<br />The  main problem with the book is it is NOT user-friendly.  There is too much  space devoted to sidebars, and the graphics make the book very hard to  read.  Furthermore, Wong is in dire need of a blue pencil.  If it takes him  338 pages to talk about how teachers should prepare for the first days of  school, the mind boggles at how many trees would need to be killed for Wong  to publish a book about planning for the entire school year.  What is the  point of Wong spending an entire chapter on &quot;dressing for  success&quot; when other authors have spent one or two sentences on the  subject?  Chapters and sections devoted to irrelevancies such as dress  codes and taking roll tend to have the effect of being insulting to  teachers.<br />If you are a first-year teacher, I recommend you skip this  purchase and instead buy the much better (and far less expensive) books,  THE FIRST-YEAR TEACHER'S GUIDEBOOK by Bonnie Williamson, and THE  UNAUTHORIZED TEACHER'S SURVIVAL GUIDE by Warner and Bryan.	2000-08-17
US	50403876	R3I4TPU4BMG5O5	0937899399	230220816	A First-Year Teacher's Guidebook, 2nd Ed.	Books	5	122	124	N	N	Indispensible for the First-Year Teacher	Finally, here's a book every first-year teacher should have.  While the first year is often filled with excitement and apprehension, Williamson provides the reader with so many valuable tips on what new teachers need to  be prepared for on that journey to successful teaching.<br />I am starting a  position this fall, and I'm glad I have this book.  I was not as concerned  on whether I could teach the children or manage a classroom as much as I  was concerned about what SUPPLIES I needed to get the class started.  Williamson provides a list of what every teacher should have on hand. All  the information any new teacher needs is here, including setting up  bulletin boards, teaching for the first week and month of school,  conducting parent-teacher conferences, dealing with paper work, and  planning for field trips. <br />Great book, and it should be required for not  only new teachers, but also for those who are doing student teaching.	2000-07-21
US	50403876	R2XS4ZSMJR01UA	0023074906	450197341	Words Their Way: Word Study for Phonics, Vocabulary, and Spelling Instruction	Books	5	79	85	N	N	Practical and Indispensible	While at the University of Nevada, Reno (where co-authors Donald Bear and Shane Templeton teach), I was required to have this book for my language arts method class.  It is very practical, and teachers will enjoy the games  and word sorts which help reinforce spelling, vocabulary, and phonics  instruction.  This book has a little bit of theory regarding the levels of  reading literacy, but the majority of the book is devoted to word study  activities.  <br />This is a book that belongs on every teacher's bookshelf,  and it is a book teachers will refer to time and again.  It is a book  designed to be USED, not talked about.	2000-07-21
US	50403876	RD04F1791A0P5	0440153255	934252199	Hollywood Babylon: The Legendary Underground Classic of Hollywood's Darkest and Best Kept Secrets	Books	4	26	27	N	N	It's Like Reading a Bundle of &quot;Confidential&quot; Magazines	Anybody who is considering buying this book (and its sequel, if one can find it) should know that it has absolutely no pretensions of being fair or accurate.  Despite the wild inaccuracies of now-deceased stars' exploits,  the book is still like seeing a car wreck:  you know it's awful, but you  can't resist looking at it.  It's a fun book in spite of itself.<br />The  photos are often tasteless, the prose is often tacky and sleazy, the  research is put together with two nails and a hammer, and overall the book  reminds one of the old &quot;Confidential&quot; magazines (the magazine is  actually profiled in one of the book's chapters).  Yet sleaze and tackiness  are what Hollywood was all about, so the book seems fitting.<br />If you want  accuracy in a book, go elsewhere.  If you like gossip in the most vicious  and slimy way possible, then this is your book.	2000-07-06
US	50403876	R18QVSBYK7GJEL	0688169759	572140372	Florence Harding: The First Lady, The Jazz Age, And The Death Of America's Most Scandalous President	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An Overall Good Book About a Less Well-known First Lady	Thanks to Gaston Means' colorful if inaccurate portrayal, Florence Harding has, over the years, had an undeserved reputation as the woman who poisoned her president husband in order to spare him further scandal.  Carl Sferazza  Anthony helps set the record straight in this generally excellent  biography.<br />We find that Florence Harding was a woman far ahead of her  time.  Her first marriage and the circumstances surrounding the birth of  her son were unusual, to say the least.  She also was a very astute  business woman, who basically made Warren Harding a success in business as  well as in the political arena.  There is no doubt in my mind he would  never have gone as far as he had without her influence.  <br />The only  problem with this book is that Anthony tends to focus way too much on  Warren Harding's well-known infidelities and not enough on Florence.  We  know way more than we ever needed to know with the publication of Nan  Britton's pathetic romantic tale, &quot;The President's Daughter.&quot;  I  know an author needs to sell books, but I think he overdid it in this  case.<br />Overall, though, I still give this book high marks because he does  tackle a subject who is truly worth writing about.	2000-07-06
US	50403876	R3S23RGKBV36XI	0201441969	257624835	The Manufactured Crisis: Myths, Fraud, And The Attack On America's Public Schools	Books	5	34	56	N	N	The Best Book on the So-called Education Crisis	Few subjects have been more lied about than the issue of the state of public schools.  Berliner and Biddle, two academics in the field of education, methodically demolish every single lie, every single myth that's been perpetrated by the right wing in the past two decades.  They dispel  the myth of &quot;declining&quot; SAT scores, they take on the Reagan  administration propaganda piece A NATION AT RISK, they dispute the notion  that private schools are inherently superior than public schools... and they repeatedly show, with a truckload of documentation, what is  right with public schools.<br />One of the most notable parts of the book  concerns a governmental report conducted during the Bush administration  called &quot;The Sandia Report.&quot;  The report's researchers looked at  existing studies about such diverse areas in education as teacher  preparation, SAT scores, funding of schools, postsecondary education, and  dropout/retention rates.  Contrary to the gloom-and-doom of A NATION AT  RISK, the researchers found that our educational system in the United  States was, on the whole, in far better shape than the propaganda had  claimed.  Unfortunately, the Bush administration squelched the report as it  did not support its preconceived notions on the state of education in  America.  It wasn't until 1993 when the report was finally released.   Berliner and Biddle describe how the report had to be rewritten and  rewritten to fit the Bush mold.  Still, the results of the study weren't  good enough.  This was a major and unreported scandal during the Bush  years....<br />Berliner and Biddle do acknowledge there are  problems in the public schools; for example, the increased numbers of  immigrants and the disparities in funding of different school districts in  different states.  These are REAL problems which require increased  spending, unlike the anti-public school propaganda which states the public  schools are failures and the only way to save them is to give taxpayer  money to private schools via vouchers, which in turn starve the public  schools even more for funding and the quality goes down even further.  At  bottom, the anti-public school propaganda campaign is a campaign against  our very form of democracy and social mobility which has made this country  great.  Berliner and Biddle provide ample ammunition to counter the  anti-public school lies.	2000-06-22
US	50403876	RUMK2HOESPJA0	0195026160	590506001	Abortion in America: The Origins and Evolution of National Policy (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Required Reading for Those Interested in the Issue	Mohr's groundbreaking work is a history of abortion in the United States from the colonial days until the present (as of the late 1970s).  What is fascinating about this book is how the medical establishment railed against  the increased use of abortion in the 1800s but became among its foremost  advocates a century later.  Mohr also shows the reader how legalizing  abortion in recent years was not a result of lax morals but rather was a  return to the past.<br />This is a brief book, but it is one of the very  finest books on this controversial issue.	2000-06-22
US	50403876	R2HGVJF7BIWL3K	0312439598	434095910	James Dean: The Mutant King	Books	4	43	45	N	N	For the Most Part, a Good Biography	Dalton's biography of James Dean is a very good book about the cinemic legend.  He seems to have interviewed many people who were close to Dean, and he focuses as much on the real man as on the icon.  Dalton also writes  quite well.<br />The only problem I have with this book is I wonder how  carefully it was fact-checked.  There was at least one blatant gaffe in the  book, which alleged that James Dean was a big fan of Elvis Presley.  Now  every Elvis fan knows Presley was a huge fan of James Dean, even to the  point where he is said to have memorized all of Dean's lines in the classic  &quot;Rebel Without a Cause.&quot;  The question I have is, was Dean really  a fan of Elvis?<br />On page 195 of the paperback 1983 edition, a friend of  Dean's is quoted as saying how much James Dean loved the Elvis hit  &quot;Hound Dog,&quot; and how Dean loved to wake people up in the middle  of the night by calling them on the phone and playing the record when they  said &quot;Hello.&quot;  It's a compelling tale.<br />Unfortunately, this  story cannot be true.  By the end of 1955, Elvis had signed on to RCA and  had obtained Col. Tom Parker as manager.  Elvis was still a regional  performer in 1955, and his Sun recordings (today big collectors' items)  sold only modestly in the South.  Elvis did make appearances on &quot;The  Louisiana Hayride,&quot; and he made some other appearances on local and  regional television programs, but it wasn't until January 1956, when he  made his first national television appearance on the Dorsey Brothers  program &quot;Stage Show,&quot; that he became a sensation.  Furthermore,  Elvis did NOT record &quot;Hound Dog&quot; until July of 1956, almost a  year after Dean's death.  Now it is possible Dean might have heard  &quot;The Louisiana Hayride&quot; or bought any of Elvis' five Sun singles,  but more likely he, like most of America in 1955, had never heard of Elvis.   This blatant error, while only taking up one paragraph in the book, calls  into question how accurate the rest of the book is.  Dalton doesn't call  this tall tale into question, so the gullible reader is led to believe Dean  was a big fan of Elvis.  Since I haven't seen a newer edition of this book,  it's possible the error was corrected, but I doubt it.<br />Because people's  memories can fade or they can simply exaggerate, most biographies have to  be read with caution.  Even though I enjoyed the book and refer to it  often, it is certainly no exception.	2000-06-14
US	50403876	R1O344H4MI2KK1	0684831864	172820888	Up from Conservatism	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Not Perfect But Still a Good Critique	Michael Lind was once an up-and-coming conservative activist until he realized that his mentor, William F. Buckley, Jr., refused to condemn televangelist Pat Robertson for his book &quot;The New World Order.&quot;   Lind became disillusioned with the conservative movement as it veered away  from the old-style conservatism to embrace the radical right.  <br />Because  he has the advantage of having been an insider, his book is much more  powerful and persuasive than books by those outside the movement.  Lind  shows the reader the roots of modern day conservatism, he discusses the  think tanks that are behind much of today's conservative thought, and he  focuses on three conservative hoaxes very popular with the public.  <br />The  best part of his book, however, is a chapter based upon a review Lind wrote  in the New York Review of Books about Pat Robertson's &quot;The New World  Order.&quot;  Lind is absolutely brilliant in exposing Robertson's  plagarism of anti-Semitic works which Robertson in turn sanitized to a more  conventional conspiracy theory.  And yet there was very little negative  comment about Robertson, especially from fellow conservatives.  Lind calls  this silence a result of a &quot;no enemies to the right&quot;  policy.<br />Lind's book isn't perfect.  His explanation of the genealogy of  American political thought becomes rather confusing in places.  Some  readers will no doubt object to Lind's attitude toward affirmative action  (he's against it).  But all in all, it is still an excellent book.	2000-06-13
US	50403876	R124GFNAYJM9GQ	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Analysis of Why O.J. Was Acquitted	Vincent Bugliosi, in a brilliant analysis, shows the reader why a case with overwhelming evidence against the defendant was lost.  For the most part he does not believe that O.J. Simpson's attorneys brilliantly argued  their side of the case; it was mostly the prosecution's incompetence that  lost the case for them.  Bugliosi, for his part, doesn't blame the jury for  reaching the verdict it did.  After you read this book, you will never  believe the prosecution did the best job it could have done.<br />The only  thing which mars the book is Bugliosi's tendency to claim HE could have  changed the verdict to at least a hung jury.  He might have been able to do  so, given the prosecution's glaring foul-ups (especially with the glove and  with Mark Fuhrman), but there was so much more involved with the  environment in Los Angeles at that time that was beyond the prosecution's  control.  I am thinking of how much the atmosphere was poisoned with racial  strife as a result of the Rodney King fiasco and the L.A. riots.  O.J.'s  lawyers knew how divided the city was, and they played the race card for  all it was worth.  I don't think there was any way that jury could have  possibly voted for conviction given those circumstances, and I have grave  doubts somebody as brilliant as Bugliosi could have even gotten a hung  jury.<br />Nevertheless, after reading this book one will never look at the  O.J. Simpson case in the same way again.	2000-06-12
US	50403876	R3D2UWQZHTKWHX	006273492X	880032179	Film Encyclopedia, 3rd Edition	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great Reference Book on Film	I have bought every edition of this book, and each edition is dogeared from use.  Almost everything you wanted to know about movies, actors, and people behind the scenes is here.  Most of the biographies are detailed  with either complete filmographies or lists of most notable films.  There  are few inaccuracies in this book.<br />Individual movies are not listed, of  course, or else this book would run at least two or three times larger.   Still, this is one of the best, if not THE best, reference book on film  available.	2000-06-12
US	50403876	R3CXPGGPGQFQBP	1557043744	151453829	Final Cut: Art, Money, and Ego in the Making of Heaven's Gate, the Film that Sank United Artists	Books	5	12	13	N	N	One of the Best Hollywood Books Ever	This book, first published in the 1980s, is a classic textbook example of why Hollywood so often pours tens of millions of dollars into projects that ultimately go haywire.  In this book, Bach, who as production head had  information and sources only an insider could have, shows how a director,  Michael Cimino, was given a virtual blank check on making a film United  Artists hoped would duplicate the success of his Oscar-winning film,  &quot;The Deer Hunter.&quot;  This new project was based on a script Cimino  had written, called &quot;The Johnson County War.&quot;  It was based on an  obscure event in 19th century Wyoming, but the moguls were impressed enough  with the script to go forward with it.<br />It wasn't long, though, before the  project went awry.  Bach provides the reader with many, many reasons why  this was so.  There was plenty of blame to go around, though certainly   director Cimino deserves a large share of the blame.  He reminds the reader  of another self-destructive director, Erich von Stroheim, in that he  couldn't stay within a budget and was obsessed with detail.  Millions and  millions of dollars were thrown into this project, now called  &quot;Heaven's Gate.&quot;  By the time the film was released in 1980, it  had become the biggest bomb in Hollywood since the 1963 flop  &quot;Cleopatra.&quot;  It helped sink United Artists.  Not surprisingly,  Cimino has yet to duplicate the success of &quot;The Deer  Hunter.&quot;<br />Bach is an excellent writer, and the book makes one almost  nostalgic for the days of the old studio system of pre-1960s Hollywood.	2000-06-12
US	50403876	ROMJEZ17II4WC	0806516046	43534387	Lost Films: Important Movies That Disappeared	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Marvelous Book On a Bygone Era	There are many books about important films, but this book is unusual in that it discusses films that are now lost because of decay or intentional destruction by the studios.  The focus in this book is on the silent era,  where as many as 80 percent of the films made are now lost.  Some of the  important films discussed are THE PATRIOT, DAUGHTER OF THE GODS, CLEOPATRA  (1916), DAMAGED GOODS, and THE MIRACLE MAN.  Thompson focuses on key actors  and filmmakers of the era, especially those whose work is mostly  unavailable today including Theda Bara, Raymond Griffith, Thomas Meighan,  George Loane Tucker, and J. Gordon Edwards.  <br />I refer to this book again  and again, as I am very interested in early Hollywood.  As noted in the  other reviews, this book is not complete, and a number of important films  are not listed.  However, this book is well-written and provides readers  with a cautionary tale of how important it is that films be preserved.	2000-06-11
US	50403876	RZVU3GDRQBM9W	0810943743	151603610	Mary Pickford Rediscovered	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outstanding in Every Respect	This is the latest book by the leading historian on silent cinema, Kevin Brownlow.  Like all of his other works, it is outstanding.  Mary Pickford is thought of mostly as the grown up woman who played little girl roles in  films that are unwatchable today.  However, this is not true.  Pickford was  an actress of considerable range, not to mention the fact she was a very  shrewd businesswoman.  She was and is one of the key figures in the history  of film.  Brownlow, more than any other writer, puts Pickford's career in  perspective, and he spends the majority of the book providing detailed  commentary about her films.  Furthermore, there are many superb stills from  her films in this book.<br />This book is for all lovers of film and should  spark renewed interest in Pickford's life and films.	2000-06-11
US	50403876	R1IML8APQVFVWX	1581500246	787594687	Thoroughbred Champions: Top 100 Racehorses of the 20th Century	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Outstanding Reference Book for Racing Fans	While this book will provoke arguments among racing fans as to which horses merit the &quot;greatest&quot; label, this is indispensible to anyone who loves thoroughbred racing.  While most of the horses were and  are familiar names to racing fans, some are not so well-known.  Each horse  is described in brief yet highly detailed biographies, and there are  photographs galore.<br />As I said, there will be arguments as to which horses  were the best, and the authors note how low the fillies, especially  Ruffian, arguably a top 10 horse, ended up on the list.  There was also  some controversy over Secretariat's ranking, as one of the seven experts  did not even list him in the top 10, thus he managed to finish only number  two on the list, behind Man O' War (this immediately calls into question  the &quot;expertise&quot; of the unidentified panelist).<br />But that's what  these lists are for, to provoke discussion and even argument.  I found this  book endlessly fascinating.	2000-06-07
US	50403876	R33MT7XL5CELWX	0805042423	451616628	Wild Ride: The Rise and Tragic Fall of Calumet Farm Inc., America's Premier Racing Dynasty	Books	1	4	17	N	N	Potentially Outstanding Book Fatally Ruined By Speculation	Auerbach's book about the history, rise and fall of America's most famous racing stable, Calumet, is for the most part outstanding.  Reading it I was captivated by the story of the Wrights and others who made the stable a  success.  She also documents its fall in the hands of one J.T. Lundy,  married to one of Louise Wright Markey's granddaughters, who totally  mismanaged the farm and veered it to bankruptcy and liquidation.  There is  no doubt in my mind Lundy was totally out of his league in running a racing  stable.<br />However, being inept or greedy is one thing, having a horse  killed to pay debts is another thing entirely.  Auerbach makes the fatal  mistake in her book by veering away from straight reporting and plunging  headlong into speculation and insinuation.  Now to date there is no  evidence whatsoever that the farm's great stallion and most valuable asset,  Alydar, was killed for the insurance money, but Auerbach insinuates the  possibility in her book.  This is very irresponsible for a supposedly  reputable writer to do.  I do not believe such a thing happened; it boggles  the mind that anybody could ever be that greedy and that cruel.  Shortly  after Alydar died, I saw an interview with Lundy and he certainly didn't  look very happy the horse died.  So, no, I'm not buying the Alydar  conspiracy theory.<br />For the reason I stated above, I cannot give this  book, which has so much in its favor, the highest rating.<br /><br />Update 2014:  I have lowered the stars on this book because rumor and speculation should NEVER, EVER be regarded as \\"truth.\\"  Unfortunately, too many people believe Auerbach's hogwash about Alydar being killed for insurance money.  This despite no evidence and statements by the veterinarians on duty and other witnesses.<br /><br />Repeat:  There is NO evidence whatsoever Alydar died any other way than in a tragic accident.<br /><br />The NYT, reviewing this book years ago, condemned Auerbach for her insinuations and rumor-peddling.  This is NOT journalism but tabloidism.	2000-06-07
US	50403876	R23CSXQZI3OAGL	0801961564	25056397	Secretariat	Books	5	67	67	N	N	Wonderful Book About a Great Race Horse	SECRETARIAT was first published in 1974 by Raymond Woolfe and immediately sold out.  For years the book was out of print, except for a limited edition book published in around 1991.  Thank goodness it is now back in  print and is available to all fans of the great horse.<br />Woolfe seemed to  have had unlimited access to Secretariat's connections.  He traces the  horse's life from the time he was foaled in 1970 until his death in 1989.   Furthermore, the book is jam-packed with photographs by the author, the  most famous being the &quot;takeoff&quot; shot of Secretariat about to make  his first turn sweep of the field in the 1973 Preakness.  The book truly  gives the reader a feel of what this horse was like, especially those  readers who were not lucky enough to have seen him in person.<br />SECRETARIAT  is for all lovers of horse racing, and it is the perfect companion to Bill  Nack's classic biography, SECRETARIAT:  THE MAKING OF A CHAMPION.	2000-06-05
US	50403876	R248HPT6GRSGD6	0306803178	191269980	Secretariat (A Da Capo paperback)	Books	5	151	155	N	N	One of the All-Time Best Racing Books	This book was originally published in 1975 as BIG RED OF MEADOW STABLE.  I read the book when it first came out, and I thought it was one of the greatest books ever written on thoroughbred racing.  I finally bought a  copy of my own in 1989, just a couple of months before my visit to see the  great horse in Kentucky.<br />Perhaps because I saw Secretariat just weeks  before he was put down, this book still brings the tears to my eyes when I  read it.  It takes a truly outstanding writer to write about such a  magnificent subject, and Nack fills the bill beautifully.  He traces  Secretariat's lineage and of the history of Claiborne Farm in Kentucky,  long the leading breeder of thoroughbred race horses.  He writes in depth  about Secretariat's races leading up to the legendary Triple Crown triumph  of 1973.  He writes about observers such as Charles Hatton, who spotted  Secretariat's greatness immediately and who called Secretariat the greatest  horse he had ever seen. <br />The only flaw in this great book is that it  stops at Secretariat's retirement.  There is no updated edition of this  book.  Perhaps someday Nack will write the rest of the Secretariat story.   He certainly wrote a magnificent obituary about him in Sports Illustrated  called &quot;Pure Heart.&quot; <br />All in all a great book.	2000-06-05
US	50403876	R22RWEA5Y502H1	0451407474	359716484	Goddess: The Secret Life of Marilyn Monroe	Books	1	38	57	N	N	Goddess is Godawful	There have been many, many books about the Kennedys, both cotton candy sacchine types and warts-and-all types.  There has also been a booming business over the past 37 years of JFK assassination conspiracy books.  But  it truly takes literary genius to try and tie the Kennedy family into a  conspiracy.  What better and more profitable way to do this is than to  invent a tale of conspiracy by the Kennedys in the cover-up of the death of  the legendary actress Marilyn Monroe?  <br />Now Summers could have written a  halfway decent book on Monroe, a fine actress who was not and still is not  fully appreciated for the talent she was.  He could have written a  retrospective of her career, of her great love for Joe DiMaggio, and so on.   Since the publication of Donald Spoto's biography of Monroe, we know her  relationship with the Kennedy family merited only a line or two at best in  any biography.  She was close to Peter and Pat Lawford, and it's possible  she had a one-night fling with JFK, but that was about it.<br />Unfortunately,  such an admission would not sell any books, so Summers decided to concoct a  wild theory about how Monroe supposedly died.  This alleged elaborate  conspiracy takes up the bulk of this wretched book.  His theory goes  something like this:  Monroe supposedly had affairs with both JFK and RFK,  with the last one being extremely serious.  Monroe supposedly knew too much  about Hoffa and other such shady characters, all of whom are now dead and  couldn't sue for libel.  Well, she had to be silenced, and she also had  this red diary full of incriminating evidence which she showed only to her  trusted ex-husband, Robert Slatzer.  The Kennedys didn't actually have her  offed, but when Bobby was allegedly informed in San Francisco that his poor  mistress died (remember, Spoto claimed in his book Monroe was planning to  remarry DiMaggio, but never mind), he somehow got out of bed in the middle  of the night without Ethel knowing about it, secretlychartered a flight to  L.A., went to her house, covered up the evidence of her murder, then  magically flew back to S.F., went back to bed while Ethel was sound asleep,  and nobody was the wiser.<br />Spoto, in his first edition of his book, took  Summers to task for falling so totally for the old political smear of RFK  and Monroe having an affair.  But, of course, Summers wasn't the first to  come up with the tale.  Other authors before and since, particularly the  financially-pressed Norman Mailer, also spread the rumors far and wide.   But few had the success of Summers, and none had the ability to also have a  documentary made (in England, doubtless to avoid libel laws) which  purported the same idiotic theory.<br />Also worth noting is Summers' reliance  (or gullibility) on one Robert Slatzer.  Back in the early 1950s, Slatzer  had a chance meeting with Marilyn Monroe when she was shooting on location  at Niagara Falls and managed to have a couple of photographs taken with the  legendary actress.  Over the years, this chance meeting metastasized into a  secret marriage and divorce to Monroe and a lifelong friendship.  There was  no record of a marriage, no record of a divorce, no other pictures of them  together, no nothing.  Yet this man was Marilyn's closest confidant, who  none of her real friends knew.  When Spoto asked one of Slatzer's former  wives about the so-called &quot;marriage,&quot; she laughed at the  notion.<br />Note that virtually none of his sources for the book's  sensational charges actually knew the Kennedy family or Monroe.  Summers'  sleaziest allegations are published only because people like Peter Lawford,  Jimmy Hoffa, J. Edgar Hoover, JFK, RFK, and Monroe herself are dead and  can't sue.  Others, like Pat Kennedy Lawford and Frank Sinatra (who was  alive when the book was published) would have hung up on Summers had he  bothered to contact them.<br />The book, then, is another in the line of the  trash-'em-when-they're-dead books.  If you like awful books, you might  enjoy it.	2000-06-03
US	50403876	R2LC8A8JUTPDSY	0813336635	714211212	Social Security and Its Enemies : The Case for America's Most Efficient Insurance Program	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Much Needed Information to Counter Propaganda Campaign	In this short, easy-to-read book, Skidmore persuasively argues the case for the continued existence of Social Security.  No political issue has been more lied about, with malicious intent on the part of opponents, than  the so-called Social Security &quot;crisis.&quot;  Time and again the  Social Security Trustees' pessimistic projections have been repeated in the  media, but very rarely are the assumptions behind the projections  explained.  Skidmore explains how the Trustees arrived at the various  scenarios, and how the current projections are highly unrealistic and  unlikely to come to pass.<br />The truth, though, doesn't hold sway with SS  opponents.  They are opposed to the system because they oppose any  governmental program regardless of its success.  Skidmore shows the reader  the history not only of Social Security but also of its opposition.  He  shows us the motives behind chicken littles such as Peter Peterson, Senator  Bob Kerrey (who has gotten contributions from anti-SS organizations), and  rightwing think tanks such as the Cato Institute and the Concord Coalition.   He also touches on how the media have been irresponsible in its reporting  and its tendency to print or repeat conservative think tank policy papers  without comment.<br />Brief and always to the point, this book is one of the  best sources on the Social Security system and its critics available.	2000-06-01
US	50403876	R1K5YID3SOA1OU	1571120793	79011746	Inside Secrets of Finding a Teaching Job	Books	4	57	59	N	N	Good and  Practical Advice for Would-Be Teachers	Like some other reviewers, I am currently looking for a teaching position.  I ordered this book and found it had very good information on where to find jobs, how to write a resume, and how to answer possible interview  questions.  I would say the resume part was the most useful so far, as few  resume books have examples of teacher resumes.  From the examples provided  I was able to construct a more condensed resume from the three-page one I  previously had.<br />However, the jury is out in so far as whether I will be  able to obtain employment in the field even with this advice.  The reason I  did not give this book five stars is that there was not a whole lot of  information for those people who are changing careers in mid-life.  Most of  the emphasis seemed directed at those traditional college age graduates  with little or no employment experience.	2000-05-27
US	50403876	R3HV9G7ONXQ8GN	0520218981	876929784	Paradise Lost: California's Experience, America's Future	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Rise and Fall of the Golden State	In this book, Peter Schrag explores the forces that made California the &quot;promised land&quot; of the American postwar era, and the forces responsible for its decline.  Schrag spends much time discussing the  initiative process and is critical of these attempts to bypass legislative  decision-making in favor of direct voting on proposals.  While initiatives  sound good in theory, they can have unintentional negative consequences.   One of the initiatives Schrag spends much time on is the disastrous yet  popular Proposition 13, passed in 1978.  Schrag's discussion of the  initiative, its backers Jarvis and Gann, and its unintended consequences  are the best I've seen anywhere.  It is a classic case of a proposal that  seemed to be sincere (property tax reduction) in its aims, but it was  utterly disastrous for the state.  The education system was once one of the  best, now it is one of the worst in the country.  Libraries have closed  because of lack of funding.  California has now become  &quot;Mississippified&quot; as a result of the lack of information and  forethought of the voters.<br />This is an indispensable book and a warning to  people in other states to avoid making the same mistakes California voters  did.	2000-05-24
US	50403876	RSK6BL1PM51HX	0300079605	719115060	The Fragile Middle Class: Americans in Debt	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent analysis of Why People File for Bankruptcy	This book is a follow-up to the authors' classic study of the bankruptcy issue As We Forgive Our Debtors.  In this book, the authors look at the reasons debtors file for bankruptcy.  Among the many interesting findings,  the authors note the increased numbers of homeowners filing for bankruptcy.   Not only are they filing because of other huge debts, but often they are  resorting to bankruptcy BECAUSE of homeownership.  Some resort to Chapter  13 in order to get caught up on mortgage payments, while others try  desperately to hang on when it might have been more advisable to surrender  the house.  In short, homeownership is not seen so much as an asset as a  liability.<br />The authors devote much of their book to the increased amount  of credit card debt consumers in general and bankrupt debtors in particular  carry and why this has happened.  This is especially timely, as Congress  seems well on the way of passing so-called bankruptcy &quot;reform&quot;  that would benefit credit card companies to the detriment of debtors by  forcing more of the latter into Chapter 13 or denying them bankruptcy  access altogether.<br />This is a very readable, very well-researched book by  three of the top experts on bankruptcy law in the United States.	2000-05-19
US	50403876	R1QR2TTYSKYPQR	1893122158	541916539	As We Forgive Our Debtors: Bankruptcy and Consumer Credit in America	Books	5	18	27	N	N	Landmark Study of Consumer Bankruptcy in the U.S.	As We Forgive Our Debtors is a result of a landmark study of bankrupt debtors in the 1980s.  The authors, three of the leading experts on bankruptcy in the United States, focus on who files for bankruptcy.   Contrary to widespread myth, most bankrupts are not irresponsible  spendthrifts who could afford to pay their debts.  Instead, they cross all  income and occupational levels.  What they do have in common is they have  insurmountable financial problems resulting from crises in their lives,  including divorce, job loss, and medical problems.  <br />What is perhaps most  disturbing is that single women have been and are increasingly filing for  bankruptcy, thanks to their much lower salaries to begin with.  It is this  group who would suffer most from any kind of so-called bankruptcy  reform.<br />This book, while it is geared for an academic market, is actually  highly readable, with copious footnotes at the end of each chapter.  The  book, while originally published in 1989, is more timely than ever as  Congress is considering a fatally flawed bankruptcy reform bill which would  be devasting to the vast majority of people filing for bankruptcy but a  boon to the credit card industry.<br />I highly recommend this book and its  sequel, The Fragile Middle Class.	2000-05-16
US	50403876	R4CGZBKPEKGG9	0785274251	131153224	I Was Wrong: The Untold Story of the Shocking Journey from Ptl Power to Prison and Beyond	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The PTL Scandal from the Ultimate Source	Years ago, when the PTL scandal hit the headlines, I felt Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker deserved all the criticism hurled their way.  I felt they, like many other televangelists, were in the business for their own personal  enrichment rather than for &quot;doing the work of God.&quot;  <br />As the  years have gone by, I realized that there was a lot more to the story than  the headlines let on.  Today I think the Bakkers were in over their heads  with regard to Heritage USA, and they really couldn't handle the tremendous  success of the program.    Jim may have been a good evangelist, but his  business acumen left a lot to be desired.  Even he admits this in his  book.<br />I WAS WRONG is Bakker's account of how everything went wrong.  He  admits if he had come forward with the Hahn episode right after it happened  much if not all of the problems thereafter could have been avoided.   However, he was more concerned with &quot;appearances&quot; and the  short-term penalities resulting from his sin than the long term problems  resulting from the payoff of Hahn.  As a result of these misguided attempts  to cover up, Bakker lost it all:  the television empire, Heritage USA, his  reputation, his marriage.  <br />I found the book hard to put down.  While  some may regard Bakker's book as self-serving, it is riveting, from the  beginning of the Hahn scandal to his time in prison to his release.  One of  the most powerful chapters concerns the Falwell &quot;takeover&quot; of  PTL.  Once you read Jim's account (and have heard what ex-wife Tammy Faye  has said about Falwell, et al), you will want to think twice before sending  any money to the likes of Falwell, Swaggert, and Ankerberg.	2000-04-18
US	50403876	RBWQXUEASYVH2	0312245475	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	69	80	N	Y	Definitive Account of the So-Called Clinton Scandals	When historians 50 or 100 years from now look back at the Clinton presidency, they will turn to this book in order to make sense of how such a barrage of &quot;scandals&quot; about the administration were suddenly  foisted upon the public.  While Hillary Clinton was ridiculed for her  remarks on the Today Show about there being a &quot;vast conspiracy,&quot;  Conason and Lyons prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that a loose  confederation of right wing interests were indeed bent on crippling and  destroying the Clinton presidency.  They also show the reader these  interests were targeting Bill Clinton as early as 1989.<br />While many  readers are familiar with these various groups and individuals, the authors  connect the dots and provide insight as to how and why they were so  successful in their long-running smear against the Clintons.  All the  well-known and not so well-known characters are here:  from Lee Atwater to  Monica Lewinsky, from Richard Mellon Scaife to Kenneth Starr, from Parker  Dozier to David Hale.  Nobody is spared from criticism, including Clinton  in his unbelievable stupidity in being involved with Lewinsky.  However,  after reading this book, you will become convinced Clinton had to be the  luckiest person in the world to have such an oddball assortment of enemies.   It was inevitable Clinton would be the target by those (especially in the  GOP) who were afraid of his considerable appeal to so many groups of  people; it was equally inevitable that the Gang Who Couldn't Shoot Straight  would fail miserably to oust him.<br />Some of the best parts of the book have  to do with the media's gullibility in swallowing every scandalous tidbit  with regard to Clinton, no matter how dubious the source.  Because both  authors have previously criticized the media's coverage of the Clinton  &quot;scandals,&quot; especially Gene Lyons, they are not very welcome in  the Georgetown snob culture where Sally Quinn and David Broder are the  arbiters of who trulybelongs in that clique.  It is also likely Conason  and Lyons will not be invited to very many talk shows discussing their  book.<br />For these reasons and many more, this book deserves the highest  recommendation.  Unlike Jeffrey Toobin in his recent book &quot;A Vast  Conspiracy,&quot; Conason and Lyons are more comprehensive in their focus  on the scandals, and less concerned about what the Beltway mob thinks.	2000-02-25
US	50403876	R1VN3DU1A1MM0G	1879957523	997979120	Fools for Scandal: How The Media Invented Whitewater	Books	5	28	33	N	N	A Classic in Journalistic Criticism	The nucleus of Lyons' book began as an October 1994 article in Harper's Magazine.  In it he confirmed what I and others had suspected:  There was no there there in the Whitewater story, and that it was a hoax with regard  to the Clintons.<br />Two years later, at around the 1996 elections, Lyons and  the editors of Harper's came up with this book.  More than just a  recounting of the Whitewater saga, this book is one of the most damning  indictments of journalistic malpractice ever written.  At the core of the  book is the behavior of journalists at various newspaper and broadcast  media outlets in general, with particular emphasis on the New York Times  and the now-discredited reporter Jeff Gerth.  Needless to say, Lyons' book  got a lousy review in the NYT Book Review, yet nobody has ever refuted  anything Lyons wrote.  Indeed, his book has stood the test of  time.<br />Breezily written, yet meticulously researched, Lyons' book can be  read in a sitting or two.  I also recommend the section in the back of the  book featuring a discussion with Lyons and a number of other journalists  with regard to the lack of journalistic standards in the Whitewater  reporting.<br />This book can also be seen as a forerunner to Lyons' (and Joe  Conason's) upcoming book on the so-called Clinton Scandals, &quot;The  Hunting of the President.&quot;  If that book is anything like &quot;Fools  for Scandal,&quot; it should be very good, indeed.  Lyons and Conason will  still not be invited to the Georgetown cocktail parties, however.	2000-01-19
