US	50416159	R1JJNSLHKTHU1P	1593090013	16198561	Been There, Done That : A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Been There, Done That was more enjoyable than ATAABOC	Been There, Done That is the continuing story of Venice and her family from the first novel, All That and a Bag of Chips.<br /><br />Craig was a favorite of mine from the first novel and here he gets his own story.  I enjoyed this book more than the first book.  Mainly because it's mostly about Craig and also because Venice seems a little bit more mature now that's she's had time to settle down.<br /><br />Now I look forward to reading her last novel in the trilogy, What goes around comes around.  Her writing's still not up to par with my favorite writers but it's enough for me to give her another chance.	2005-09-07
US	50416159	R1NAMIJTH2O7PN	0971195307	369758118	All That and a Bag of Chips	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not bad for a first novel	ALL THAT AND A BAG OF CHIPS was not a page-turner.  However, I do plan to read the 2nd book if only because I am now caught up in the characters.  I also want to see if her ability to weave a story has improved.  This multicultural romance is about Venice and the two men she loves, Jarvis and Craig.<br /><br />The story & writing were both just ok.  I am hoping that she will find a rhythm to her story-telling soon.  Otherwise, she's got a great future as a journalist.  Her writing is too matter-of-fact.  It lacks personality, passion and style.  However, I did like the men and how they loved her even after she stopped deserving it.<br /><br />If Ms Lee is going to continue to target a female audience with her books and market it as a multicultural romance, she needs to stop making skanks the heroine in the story.  No matter Venice's background or the high-caliber of men she's dating, a woman that has sex with two men within a 24-hour period is a ho.  Even if the acts are rationalized by saying she was in love with both.  I prefer to cheer for and back a heroine who is faithful and monogamous whether the setting is a 19th Century mansion or a woman's dorm-room in the 21st Century.<br /><br />I also can't endear myself to Venice when she cheats on Craig and then has the unmitigated gall to cop an attitude with him when his crazy ex-girlfriend tries to TALK to him.  Even when it was clearly obvious that he wanted nothing to do with his ex.  The more I think on it, the more I'm convinced that there's not much to like about Venice.  She's wishy-washy, very self-absorbed, high-strung and high-maintenance yet I'm to believe everyone loves her?<br /><br />Also, if she's such a smart, well-rounded, tough girl, what's with all the high-drama about not taking a pregnancy test to see if she's pregnant?  Only an ignorant weakling would sink to such states of passive denial.  I've seen this behavior in girls who were too scared, young and inexperienced but Venice doesn't fit this profile at all.<br /><br />Another pet peeve was the misinformation on the pill.  As my doctors have told me, the pill is not 99.9% effective, it's 100% effective if taken as instructed.  It's the one's that don't follow the written instructions (such as skipping a pill and trying to double dose the next day) that lowers the effectiveness to 99%.<br /><br />Over all, I liked the story and the sexual tone but I see so much more potential than what was actually delivered.  I suggest you do what I plan to do when I get ready to read the 2nd book in the trilogy BEEN THERE DONE THAT, begin the trilogy by borrowing ALL THAT AND A BAG OF CHIPS from your public library.t fit this profile at all.   <br /> <br />Another pet peeve was the misinformation on the pill.  As my doctors have told me, the pill is not 99.9% effective, it's 100% effective if taken as instructed.  It's the one's that don't follow the written instructions (such as skipping a pill and trying to double dose the next day) that lowers the effectiveness to 99%. <br /> <br />Over all, I liked the story and the sexual tone but I see so much more potential than what was actually delivered.  I suggest you do what I plan to do when I get ready to read the 2nd book in the trilogy BEEN THERE DONE THAT, begin the trilogy by borrowing ALL THAT AND A BAG OF CHIPS from your public library.  <br />	2005-08-26
US	50416159	RY4QBJ9X3APWD	0743470974	737598392	Afterburn: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Afterburn is not your typical romance	My first Zane book was easy to read and I devoured her chapters full of hot sex and adult romance.  However, I detested the ending and wished Zane had not tried to mimic non-fiction themes into a really good piece of fiction writing.<br /><br />If I wanted a lesson on relationship behavior or to be preached at, a novel being sold as \\"erotic literary fiction\\" is not where I turn to first.<br /><br />That's also why I purposely do not read Oprah approved fiction because I know these books can't just be about happy people doing happy things.  No, someone's gotta be miserable or die but most of all, the reader's emotions have to be pulled at by reading about misery and suffering leaving us in tears.  There's always a lesson to be learned, moral or otherwise.<br /><br />I really could have done without the dose of reality seeping into my fatasy erotica.  Without it, the book would have gotten five stars.  With it, it gets 4.	2005-03-22
US	50416159	R1XIEFCRPJK99N	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Beautiful & moving story but lacked depth	Edmund White has written a very beautiful book on a very dark subject.  I agree with most of the 5 star reviews that praised this book and the 2 star reviews that were disappointed with parts of this book.  Yes, I am very conflicted about this book.  I felt very cheated with the way this book ended.  I actually kept looking over the blank pages at the end of the book to make sure an extra chapter or an epilogue wasn't accidently left out.  I felt like I didn't get an ending at all.  I know, I know, life isn't like that.  It goes on and on no matter what tragedies happen in your life.  And people do things with no explanations but I wanted an explanation, dang it!  But maybe that's me.  I read fiction because I want everything nice and neat.  A reason for every action.  I also wanted a happy ending as impossible as it might be in real life under these settings.  I wanted that silver lining.  That, I did not get.  But I am not at all sorry that I read this book.  Far from it, I recommend it.  Just know that the ending is very unexpected.  I expected it way before or else a reason for going on to that point.<br /><br />Mr White is a very detailed story-teller full of rich descriptions and a very clear easy-to-picture images.  But I never felt like I knew who the main character Austin was.  I know what foods he served when he entertained but not how he felt about always being on the giving end.  Austin's lover Julian I knew even less.  How did Austin really feel about Julian?  What did Julian really think about Austin?  Sure, I knew all about the motions they went thru but the dialogue between them was lacking at best.<br /><br />Both Austin and Julian seemed almost shallow only because I knew what clothes they wore more than what they really felt.  This book read more like a non-fiction (detailed descriptions)than a fiction (detailed emotions and feelings).  Heck, I knew more about how Austin felt about a past lover of his than how he really felt about his current lover who he was with all throughout this book.<br /><br />When I finished reading the Married Man, I knew I enjoyed reading the book but I didn't have that satisfied full feeling.  I felt cheated somehow.  I wanted more revealing emotions.  I want to write Mr White and ask him a million questions about Julian's motivation for his deception or his lack of explanations.  Again, I know things in real life are not spelled out just as it was in this book and we should draw the obvious conclusions based on the few details and hints that were revealed to us.  Julian would probably call me a spoiled lazy helpless American who has to be spoon-fed everything.<br /><br />For those of you who would rather draw your own conclusions, connect your own dots and would consider it an insult to have to be spoon-fed the obvious will really devour The Married Man and the realistic story-telling of this exotic book.<br /><br />On a pet-peeve side note:  I really liked the hardback cover of the man and his dog.(It also relates to, and fits the overall mood of the story)  I wish the cover art had not been changed on the paperback edition.h all throughout this book.    When I finished reading the Married Man, I knew I enjoyed reading the book but I didn't have that satisfied full feeling.  I felt cheated somehow.  I wanted more revealing emotions.  I want to write Mr White and ask him a million questions about Julian's motivation for his deception or his lack of explanations.  Again, I know things in real life are not spelled out just as it was in this book and we should draw the obvious conclusions based on the few details and hints that were revealed to us.  Julian would probably call me a spoiled lazy helpless American who has to be spoon-fed everything.    For those of you who would rather draw your own conclusions, connect your own dots and would consider it an insult to have to be spoon-fed the obvious will really devour The Married Man and the realistic story-telling of this exotic book.    On a pet-peeve side note:  I really liked the hardback cover of the man and his dog.(It also relates to, and fits the overall mood of the story)  I wish the cover art had not been changed on the paperback edition.	2004-11-28
US	50416159	R26PVBOBFGP3O4	0743236009	422115356	Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs: A Low Culture Manifesto	Books	5	42	65	N	N	A Keeper Manifesto for the uber curious or cool people.	(or think they are)<br />This may be a non-sequitur but Chuck's book jacket picture looks like Corey Feldman with blond highlights.  (sorry, I just had to get that off my chest)  An observation that's less off the wall than Chuck's fresh and crisp writing.  He is also clever, funny, twisted, and articulate.  His witty essays are full of non-sequiturs but skillfully manages to segue them all in a way that only this sharp Author can.<br />Chuck's vocabulary is to die for.  He drops tongue-twisters such as \\"iconoclast\\" like I would use the word \\"like\\".  I had my dictionary handy for his use of the words \\"byzantine\\" and \\"zeitgeist\\".<br />Unless you have been living isolated in a cave for these last 30 years, your feelings and passions will be affected by some if not all of his chapters.  Each of these droll chapters are stand alone essay topics that are as various as the different channels on cable TV.  I also enjoyed it when he shed light on some secrets of the famous and infamous that were either very juicy or just plain weird.  Either way, very interesting.<br />His wickedly keen observations range from The Sims phenomena (the most detailed  and passionate essay I've ever read about a computer game) to why \\"Sports reporters hate sports\\".  He not only takes you behind the scenes but into the minds of various professionals and personas in an uncannily honest and original voice.  Before I read this book, I knew nothing about The Sims.  I had no idea why my nephew wanted me to buy him this game for his birthday.  Now I think I know too much.  I finished the chapter with thoughts of God, existence and materialism swimming in my head. (The chapter began with a topic on a game for kids!)<br />You begin each essay thinking Chuck will lead you to one general area, next thing you know this rascal has you questioning the odds on the roll of a dice.  The funny thing is, you actually understand his odds predictions.  He leaves you doubting everything you learned in that dreaded statistics course you took in College.<br />Within each chapter, Chuck will touch upon something that you can't wait to share with someone you know because you know they will agree with Chuck's discourse on the movie Vanilla Sky or even his slight mention of the band sigur r&oacute;s.  (Co-incidently, he does not mention the movie and the band in any related way or even in the same chapter but my favorite sigur r&oacute;s song is on the Vanilla Sky soundtrack.  That's a killer soundtrack by the way.)<br />But most of all, I just got the sense that he did not want you to blindly accept the printed word whether those words were on a napkin, a newpaper or the Bible.  He doesn't care what you believe or don't believe, as long as that belief is informed and can survive under his under-the-microscope-examinations.<br />He delivers all this in an easy to enjoy and digest, non heavy-handed, tongue-in-cheek way with a wink.  But most of all, I just know that if he gets laid because of this book, he'll think this a success.statistics course you took in College.<br />Within each chapter, Chuck will touch upon something that you can't wait to share with someone you know because you know they will agree with Chuck's discourse on the movie Vanilla Sky or even his slight mention of the band sigur rós.  (Co-incidently, he does not mention the movie and the band in any related way or even in the same chapter but my favorite sigur rós song is on the Vanilla Sky soundtrack.  That's a killer soundtrack by the way.)<br />But most of all, I just got the sense that he did not want you to blindly accept the printed word whether those words were on a napkin, a newpaper or the Bible.  He doesn't care what you believe or don't believe, as long as that belief is informed and can survive under his under-the-microscope-examinations. <br />He delivers all this in an easy to enjoy and digest, non heavy-handed, tongue-in-cheek way with a wink.  But most of all, I just know that if he gets laid because of this book, he'll think this a success.	2004-04-16
US	50416159	R2ALIX6J5E7RE9	0312069529	271407738	Deborah Goes to Dover (Travelling Matchmaker)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Deborah Goes to Dover is a keeper!	There seems to be comparions made between Marion Chesney's writing and Georgette Heyer's.  I am not sure that I can always agree on that because as much as I have enjoyed SOME of Heyer's novels, Chesney is easier to read and digest if this book is any indication.  It can take me days or weeks to read a Heyer novel whereas once I started reading Deborah Goes to Dover, I could not put the book down.  I finished this book in less than 24 hours.  That's when I knew it was a keeper.  That feeling of enchantment you get as you devour the words and absorb the story being told, and the excitement you feel when you're only half way through the book knowing that you've discovered another great author is an indescribeable euphoria that only another bibliophile can understand.  Therefore, just because you do not like Heyer does not mean you will not like Chesney.<br />The author must have had her tongue-in-cheek the entire time she was weaving this story.  I grinned through each clever chapter and character.  And the telling of the love matches are endearing.<br />This Traveling Matchmaker series is about the adventures of Miss Pym and her ever loyal footman Benjamin.  But we're not talking cookie cutter stories here.  You'd think Miss Pym would be young and beautiful but she is a former housekeeper with a bent nose and in her forties.  Yet you root for her all the same even while Miss Pym, with the help of her unusual footman somehow manages to end up matching Deborah with the man she was meant to be with.<br />Miss Chesney is a gifted story teller because she does not need to take up an entire chapter when one well written paragraph will do.<br />(As much as I love to read Regencies, I find too many Regency Authors very boring because of this very fact.  I detest having to wade through pages and pages of historical facts or what the people back then were wearing when a nice short paragraph will do.  Instead, I want action, adventure and some heated looks, dialogue, and kissing exchanged and more.  Which I happily got in this novel)<br />Miss Chesney ends the story leaving you wanting more, to leave the house immediately to buy the rest of the series so you can find out if Miss Pym ends up with the man she is ultimately meant for but just hasn't realized yet.<br />Bravo Miss Chesney, your talented story telling has just gained another devoted fan.exchanged and more.  Which I happily got in this novel)<br />Miss Chesney ends the story leaving you wanting more, to leave the house immediately to buy the rest of the series so you can find out if Miss Pym ends up with the man she is ultimately meant for but just hasn't realized yet.<br />Bravo Miss Chesney, your talented story telling has just gained another devoted fan.	2004-04-14
US	50416159	R176MFOQBZTRTU	0836217411	153663223	May the Force Be With Us, Please (A FoxTrot Collection)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Never too old to read FoxTrot	It's beem years since I read Fox Trot but when I picked this comic strip book up the other day, it was like riding a bicyle.(but more fun!) I got right back into the rhythm without missing a beat.  All the same old characters came back just as big and large as their endearing yet odd yet familiar personalities.  Jason the nerd-genius and his side-kick friend Marcus, Peter-Peter-the-eat-anything-that-doesn't-move-but-never-gains-weight older brother and Peter's nympho-sight-impaired girlfriend, and Paige-the-type-of-snooty-girl-every-reader-wanted-to-hate-in-high-school older sister.  Then there's the-anti-Julia-Childs-tofu-pushing-try-it-you'll-love-it-health-nut-mom and the ever clueless but we-still-wouldn't-trade-ya-for-a-smarter-one Dad.  And let's not forget the Quincy the REAL lizard King! (eat your heart out Jim Morrison)<br />The humor can be enjoyed at SO many different levels.  An 8 year old can enjoy this book but so can an 80 year old.  That's the beauty of FoxTrot.  I get \\"it\\".  And I enjoy \\"it\\".  The dry as the Sahara desert humor, the nerd humor, the family-full-of-mixed-nuts-kind of humor, the little brother picking on the older sister and even the ever present oh-so-very-subtle-and-clever-word-play humor.<br />Bill Amend has proven once again that he can do no wrong when it comes to Fox Trot.  Chalk this one up as another keeper for your FoxTrot library.  (But whatever you do, DO NOT let anyone borrow your FoxTrot books like I did.  You'll never see them again.  Obviously, this \\"borrower\\" thought they were \\"keepers\\" too!)	2003-02-12
US	50416159	R4D6XWOEYGIQN	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reading Beyond innocence was a delicious pleasure	Beyond Innocence is a really sexy novel.  Like a big book on foreplay.  You know, the part that we women like best.  We're talking some hot-enough-to-make-you-sweat-and-steam-under-your-collar stuff here.  I was really impressed with JOVE for for finally publishing material like this that pushes past the ho-hum space that most main stream romance publishers have boxed themselves into.  I definitely have to tip my hat to JOVE for being proactive enough to publish this slightly erotic and teasing love story of a passionate Lord and his lust for his brother's bride-to-be.<br />Take a bow Jove.  This is the kind of hot-as-a-funeral-pyre romance I want to read more of in the future and I hope this book inspires more such authors and publishers (besides elloras cave cause right now, Elloras Cave has the adult romance genre market cornered).	2003-01-31
US	50416159	R2LJ2C8VVVFZC2	1843600625	867999944	The Fall Of Troy: erotic romance	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Fall of Troy is one sexy, non-stopping adult ride!	I've read other books that were about \\"bigger\\" women and they were...let's just say unfulfilling and not satisfying.  But The Fall of Troy is VERY fulfilling and VERY satisfying and a gosh darn sizzlin' hot won't-stop-til-all-the-people-on-the-love-boat-having-sex-with-each-other-drop-book that just happens to have a heroine that is not a size 4.  Reading about all the goingings-on on this boat was alone worth the price of the book.<br />I love books like this that starts off with a bang and I mean a BIG WET BANG! ...And the cherry on the topping is that Troy, as described in this e-book is that he's one delicious sounding, makes-your-skin-ache-for-his-touch so-georgeous-sounding-that-you-almost-forget-he's-a-fictional-character-hunk.  If you're in the mood for some romance-for-grown-ups, The Fall of Troy is not to be missed.  Full Bodied Charmer features a secondary character from The Fall of Troy and I liked FBC also but TFOT edges out ahead by a...boat!	2003-01-18
US	50416159	R226A3CYWEQU7B	0066211220	602976816	Breathing Room: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Breathing Room is an enjoyable, love story	If you're a SEP fan like me, you'll love this book.  As is her wonderful tendency to do, we get to meet two characters and see how they appear to outsiders and then she slowly and seductively unwraps the outer layer to reveal what REALLY makes them tick.  And as she shows us their hearts, she endears ours to them as well.<br />Isabel is or was successful but it's not until she runs into Ren to see how deep her commitment to her profession really goes.  The depth of that commitment affects Ren more than he wants to admit.  And of course, it takes Isabel to carefully observe why Ren only thinks he can play the bad guy roles in the movies he does.  SEP hits on an issue that everyone can relate to:  everyone has lied to themselves (deceived themselves, denied themselves)one time or another for one reason or another.<br />I love books like this that ends happily ever after and there is nothing really sad to make me get all moody over.  (no one has to die and I'm not forced onto an emotional roller coaster ride)  Real life is emotional enough for me and that's why I turn to the world of fiction like this.  Thanks SEP for this keeper of a feel good book.	2003-01-18
US	50416159	RW5WCAN7H5RWV	1843602172	363993872	Sins of the Father	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Sins of the Father is one HOT and SEXY book!	This e-book is a contemporary, for adults only, no purple prose allowed, scorcher of a love story!  Jaid Black is a great story teller and she weaves some no-holds-barred romance that tells a wet, lush and juicy story.<br />Candy is not your skinny, model-type girl.  For a long time, she has had a secret crush on handsome JD(who CAN get any skinny, model-type girl).  JD on the other hand can only see his poor background and thus believes he's reaching for the stars when he secretly yearns for his bosses daughter Candy.  The basic premise of this tender yet erotic story is about how they finally fall in love despite the wrong impressions each had of the other.<br />Circumstances (which I'll let you discover for yourself) bring these two lovers together and boy do they know how to get it on!  JD and Candy do some sweaty and (cough) educational horizontal moves in the bedroom (...in the pool, in the plane, on the chair)  that can teach even the most jaded (no pun intended!) romance/erotica reader a thing or two.(or three or...)<br />They say dynamite comes in small packages and this is your proof.  It's incredible how much \\"bang\\" you get from these less than 100 pages. I read this entire book in one sitting as I could not stop reading once I got started.  That's also how I knew this spicy book was a definite keeper.  It left me VERY satisfied.(but probably not as satisified as Candy and JD!)	2003-01-07
US	50416159	R3JYZQKVOLFTO2	0679423125	888337111	Daddy-Long-Legs	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Daddy Long-Legs is a keeper and not be missed by anyone!	This is a fantastic self-discovery story about an orphan girl who writes a series of oh-so truthful and simple but interesting letters to her anonymous guardian.  The contents of these letters is where the reader gains insight into the the mind of a girl from the ages of 17 to 21.  Oh and what a beautiful and engaging world it is!<br />This really is one of those \\"timeless classics\\" but not something that has to be forced upon someone to read as a class assignment but a book one reads for pure pleasure.  The book is very dated and that's what makes it so ironically \\"timeless\\".  Because just as there may be difference between her time and our contemporary time, there are just as many similarities.  The biggest one being that reading about someone discovering themselves and falling in love is always enjoyable and captivating when written this simply that it's profound.<br />Even though I have put this book down, my mind has not.  That is the effect of this simply beautiful and easy to read book.	2002-11-25
US	50416159	R2EWSVFZ2ISJ6T	0515131733	800958503	The Winston Brothers	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Winston Brothers:  3 hot & sexy stories in One book!	Each story is about one of the 4 Winston brothers and though each story may be shorter in length than a full novel, they lack nothing in the sensual and passionate story telling.  These men desire their women so much that their \\"teeth ache\\" and her writing is so precise that you feel their sexual frustrations and you can almost hear their moans and groans.	2002-11-25
US	50416159	R3QPT2PCBYY6B8	0451202791	340510650	Miss Westlake's Windfall (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best regencies I have read in a very long time!	I have not enjoyed a regency this much in a while.  I devoured each word to the very last and grinned throughout.  My initial fear that this was one of those forced funny ha-ha laugher kind of regencies were for naught.  Miss Westlake's Windfall is an enchanting story that is clever and witty and oh-so-refreshing.<br />I loved this story.  I loved that Chas loves Ada from the very beginning of this book and his feelings for her never changes.  Sigh, I LOVED the fact that he had no problems declaring his love for her first.  Even his sexy hunk of a half-brother went ga-ga for Ada's sister and didn't try to fight his feelings.<br />What also endeared me to this well-told story were the secondary characters all the way down to Chas's dog.  They were written with charm and drawn with humor.  I loved them all.  Even the evil characters were interesting.  I was spellbound with Ms. Metzger's writing.  Each chapter ended so...well, right, tight.  Witty and clever writing like this is what separates the great story tellers from the wanna-be or not quite polished writers.  This story was so shiny and polished it gleamed.<br />I loved every aspect of this book.  The story, the dialogue, and ALL the characters.  This book will definitely go on my keeper shelf.	2002-11-18
US	50416159	R1SJ7US5WRY6EZ	0373270976	896661657	Night Shield (Silhouette Intimate Moments, #1027)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Snappy and Sexy, this is Nora Roberts at her best!	Ally and Jonah remind me alot of Dallas and Roarke from JD Robb's \\"IN DEATH\\" Series books.  However, Night Shield is perfect for those who want a taste of the JD Robb books without all the darkness of blood and gore.<br />I L-O-V-E-D this book!  This book covered more action and romance than some full length novels I've read.  There were no wasted words and fillers.  Everytime Ally was around Jonah, you could almost see the sparks fly with the snappy comebacks and the body heat they generated.  I'll have to read it again, this time to remember some of the clever dialogue.<br />I always feel cheated, like I got short sheeted or got only half a meal leaving me still hungry when I read books of this length but not so with Night Shield.  When I finished this book, I felt full and satisfied like I got a 5 course meal.  Night Shield is Nora Roberts at her best and is now one of my favorite romances.  I can't recommend this book enough to anyone who wants to read a sexy romance with clever dialogue and action.	2002-11-07
US	50416159	RJIFELZY4B4OU	042518756X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Guilty Pleasures did not please this romance reader	I just got through reading Guilty Pleasures and I am still puzzled as to why this novel was recommended to me when everyone that knows me knew that I liked to read romances or books with a hero and heroine where they fall in love (or at least some \\"acknowledged\\" attachment) whether there were vampires, dukes, princes, pirates, or detectives and rulers set in the future.<br />I feel so mislead!  I was told this book was sexy, sensual and a little erotic.  I got none of that from this book.  I got the same impression as when I read Ms. Hamilton's other book, A Kiss of Shadows:  A bunch of scenery that takes pages of descriptions to set up but after that, NOTHING.  (But at least the main character in A Kiss of Shadows got laid, poor Anita didn't even get to first base in this book)<br />Yes, she can draw a great fantasy picture of people and places.  Freaky people, freaky places.  Lots of blood and pain.  But there is no emotional draw.  No passion.  So what that Phillip lost alot of blood and Anita went to a party that had a few weirdos wearing bondage gear.  Why should I cares?  The only time I cared was when the goat got slaughtered and that was for the goat.  Not Anita, the main character.<br />I sit here shaking my head.  I just don't get it.<br />Ms. Hamilton's books are like those draw by numbers pictures, you spend your whole time connecting the dots and you see the picture at the end but there is no warmth, no emotional attachment and definitely not a keeper.	2002-11-04
US	50416159	R42T31R3E6FG3	0446610542	540641208	The Bachelor (The Chandler Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A perfect take-to-read-on-your-vacation contemp. romance!	If you're looking for something heavy and meaningful, don't read The Bachelor.  However, if you're looking for something light, fun and sexy, I recommend The Bachelor.<br />Charlotte Bronson (her dad named her since his favorite actor is Charles Bronson and even calls her \\"Charlie\\") has secretly been in love with Roman since High School.  Roman also had an eye for her since those days.<br />It is now 10 years later and both find themselves back in their hometown.  The heat and sparks that come off of them whenever they are near each other was told well enough to have me turning the pages.  We all know how the book is going to end but as any well read romance reader knows, it's not the getting there that is enjoyable to read about but WHAT they do in the meantime that is so wonderful to read.<br />Ms. Phillips can write one sensual love story and make a pair of hand woven bikini panties the best sex tool I've read about in a very long time.  If you're looking for a light and sexy love story, The Bachelor is not to be missed.	2002-11-02
US	50416159	RP2QV1QCA3O9H	0345440412	807327931	Magnolia Creek	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Get ready for a wonderful emotional romance!	Despite all the rave reviews, I wasn't in the mood for a novel set in post-Civil War.  Obviously it'd been a while since I read a Jill Marie Landis story because the focus shouldn't have been on the setting at all.  I'd forgotten what a great story teller Ms. Landis was - no matter what the era.<br /><br />Sara and Dru haven't been around each other much but know as all young lovers seem to immediately know that they are meant for each other and thus they marry right before he goes off to join the war.  He's young and she's even younger at 17.  When Dru gets home 6 years later, everything and everyone has changed, including himself.<br />Dru's image of the Sara he carried in his heart for the 6 celibate years he was away from her is crushed when he returns and finds his wife with her baby who is much too young to be his child.<br />How Dru and Sara deal with that and how they grow from that is the crux of this heart wrenching love story.  I wet a few pages reading this endearing romance about idealistic young lovers who thought they had the perfect love to two adults who come to realize the meaning of what love is really all about.<br />The secondary characters also make this book.  Louzanna, Jamie, Sara's grandfather Daniel and A little girl crying for her &quot;Woo&quot; have been engraved in my previously-thought-immune-to-boo-hoo-about finctional-characters-heart.<br />This is a love story revisisted.  About redemption.  And Ms. Landis has written another keeper for us romance fans.	2002-11-02
US	50416159	R2Y7250DSNW41E	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Hot and Sexy Cynster Novel	On a wicked dawn is a good reminder of what a Stephanie Laurens novel is all about.  It is more sensual than your average historical romance and I just loved that about this well-written story.<br />Often times, I read a romance and I wish there were more details to the couple after they got married.  More intimate scenes.  More on how the couple get along even after they realize they love each other.<br />In this story of Amelia and Luc, I got all that and more!<br />She dishes out everything you could ever want in a very sensual historical romance.  I highly recommend this to anyone who wants a little more intimacy than the average historical romance.	2002-10-20
US	50416159	RL3SJCI9C2G2W	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First book in the trilogy is a great start!	I don't know if it's because Nora Roberts is so popular or so prolific that I just have a hard time believing her books can be as addicting as they always turn out to be.  I am one of those TRUE romance fans that don't like suspense or thought so until Nora Roberts (AKA JD Robb) made me eat my words.  I'm still pouting over that but gorging myself on her books all the same.  And I detest myself for that part of me that still wants to cling to the belief that I am a PURE romance reader.<br />A few days after I finish one of her books (All 3 of the The BORN IN series books, Carolina Moon, Honest Illusions, Private Scandals, The Perfect Neighbor and all of JD Robbs \\"IN DEATH\\" series books), I continually tell myself I didn't really enjoy the book as much as I thought.  Then I read another of her books and am amazed all over again and again.<br />When I picked up Dance upon the Air a few days ago, I just knew I would hate this book.  A book about witches?  What a bunch of hooey!  I finished the book in less than 2 days.  I couldn't wait to dive into her next book in the series, Heaven and Earth which I also devoured in less than 2 days!  Now I can't wait to dig into Face the Fire.<br />Oh yes, I have mud all over my face but dang it, she can write a page turner!  And she can make me like books on subjects that I don't think I care about.  But now, I want to open my own eclectic bookstore on a nice island town like this 3 Sisters island.  It makes me want to wish I could cook like Nell, have the presence, grace and walk like Mia and the fitness regiment of Reiley.  And now I'm thinking, what's so hooey about a few nice witches?  Why was I so closed-minded and so judgemental in the first place about a subject I knew squat about?<br />Nora Roberts has a wonderful ability to endear the reader into the world she creates and this Three Sisters Island trilogy is another example of that talent.  I can resist her no longer, I surrender.(as I bury my face into another of her books)<br />p.s. If you want to try Nora but aren't into suspense, read the 3 Born in Series books or The Perfect Neighbor as I consider them to be more contemporary romance than romance/suspense.s)<br />p.s. If you want to try Nora but aren't into suspense, read the 3 Born in Series books or The Perfect Neighbor as I consider them to be more contemporary romance than romance/suspense.	2002-10-18
US	50416159	RKYYF1E5EFO3L	0553250477	293232876	SUNSHINE AND SHADOW	Books	5	28	29	N	N	What a beautiful & memorable story of true love!	Sunshine and Shadow is one of those books that will stay with you where the other romances might be forgotten as soon as you finish the novel.<br />Alan Wilde is a jaded, been-there-done-that, forced-to-act-as-a-child-by-profit-motivated-parents, controlling but successful Hollywood movie director. He hungers for nothing, as he is well off yet his appetite for life is at an all time low. He is spiritless. Nothing can shock or surprise him. That is, not until he meets our heroine Susan Peachy. A pretty young Amish widow full of spirit who can marvel at all the wonders of God such as star gazing at night and laying in the grass observing the busy ants. Even the simplest everyday things we take for granted, such as being able to turn a lamp on and off captivate her attention.<br />He can't believe that someone so pure and untainted still exists on this earth. Nor can he help but be drawn to her simple goodness & her fresh look at everything that comes her way. When she looks into his eyes, she sees the complete opposite: disillusionment, boredom, sin and badness. But she is drawn to him nonetheless. She knows he's a sinner but sinners can be saved and that's a temptation she cannot resist. She calls him \\"English\\" as that is what the Amish refer to any non-Amish people and so in retaliation, he adoringly calls her \\"Amish\\". She shows him just by being herself that he does indeed have a soul and this is a book of his awareness of how it is to really live a full life. Life not full of material goods as that is the only world he knew but a life of just good itself.<br />This is a marvelous love story. Proof that opposites do attract. That good will beat bad. I don't ever recall describing a novel as \\"beautiful\\" but Sunshine and Shadow is a warm and beautiful book. It had an almost fairy tale sort of feel to it. Not because the story was unrealistic but because of the way it enchanted me. I was spellbound. If reading this book doesn't bring a little beauty and sunshine into your heart, then you might be as jaded and cynical as our weary hero used to be before Susan Peachy entered his life and changed it forever.your heart, then you might be as jaded and cynical as our weary hero used to be before Susan Peachy entered his life and changed it forever.	2002-08-23
US	50416159	RKLTDCLJ9PAPZ	0373834691	106832275	Caught In The Act (Men to Rescue)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This hot, sexy, and fabulous love story is a Harlequin?	Caught in the Act came well recommended to me and now I know why.  Before I started reading, I wrinkled my nose at the fact that this was a harlequin book.  I used to read their thin novels back in the early 80's, and there was nothing special about them that I recalled.  Now that I've finished Caught in the Act, I realize this is why no one should judge a book by it's cover.  Caught in the Act is VERY special.  Harlequin really has come a long way if they are now able to attract an Author of this high caliber.<br />I loved her book Too Much Temptation, and so I told myself not to be too disappointed if Caught wasn't as good since I thought TMT was the perfect romance novel.  I wasn't disappointed as I was hooked from Chapter one!  I think I even liked Caught in the Act even better than TMT.  Needless to say, I'll be heading out to look for more of her books now.<br />When Mick an undercover vice-detective first spots Del (a semi-famous writer) jogging by, he is intrigued and attracted to her.  After two weeks of watching her jog by daily, he decides to approach her.  It's fast and furious action and passion after that.  I mean passion with a capital P!!!<br />Lori Foster's writing is flawless.  Her heroines are smart, sassy and hold nothing back.  The dialogue is hot, sexy and on the mark.  I never once put the book down and said, \\"noone would ever say that in real life!\\".  If you're in the mood to read a very hot, very good contemporary romance, go get Caught in the Act.  I recommend it very highly.	2002-08-21
US	50416159	R745OUV834L92	1551665565	980773708	Rage Of Passion	Books	5	59	62	N	N	Enjoy Rage of Passion over a rainy weekend &amp; relax	I just discovered Diana Palmer and I can't stop raving about her.  This is the 3rd book I've read of hers and I've enjoyed each and every one.  I can't believe I missed out on this Author who's been writing since the 80's.<br />Gabe was 28 when he first met 15 year old Maggie.  He knew she grew attached to him and he felt the same but never let Maggie know it since he knew desiring someone so young was wrong.  To him, she was off limits.<br />The book starts about 10 years later and Maggie is just divorced with a six-year old daughter.  Maggie runs into her Godmother Janet by accident.  Janet suggests Maggie come stay at her ranch to recouperate from Maggie's recent ugly divorce.  Maggie knows Janet is Gabe's mother and tries to refuse but Janet can be rather adamant.  Thank goodness Janet got her way or I'd have missed out on a good story!  &lt;grin&gt;<br />The heart of this story is about the love that never got a chance to blossom because of their age difference and a few other circumstances that the young Maggie never knew about.  Now they have a 2nd chance to rediscover each other and the love they never got to share and missed out on.  I love 2nd chance love stories like this.  Not just the premise of the story itself but when the flow of the story is so flawless and so well-written, it's a story not to be missed.<br />I finished the book in 24-hours.  The book looks thicker than it really is.  They use a bigger font so you don't have to squint to read it and I loved that aspect as well.  It made the reading experience that much better since I got to forgo the headache that sometimes accompanies the squinting from reading small fonts in other romances I've read.  But don't get me wrong, big print or not, it's the story and the way the story is told that sells the book and I was sold; lock, stock, and barrel!	2002-08-19
US	50416159	R2HW8G9J8RLQM9	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	When Strangers Marry is better than Only in Your Arms	Kleypas is one of those Authors that is on my \\"Auto buy\\" list. My immediate reaction upon getting the book and reading the back of the book was that I was cheated out of a brand new story. I had read OIYA and didn't recall much and remembered it was not my favorite Kleypas book. (A 4 star Kleypas book is better than the average 5 star romance by your churn-them-out-every-month romance author) My disappointment stems from my experience with the revised version of Whitney My Love by Judith McNaught. I wasn't impressed with her revisions. Therefore, my fear was great here we go again.<br />Boy was I wrong! I should have known Kleyas wouldn't cheat me out of my \\"new\\" story. Unlike McNaught's revision, When Strangers Marry is not the same story with a few more details added here and there. She actually rewrote the ENTIRE STORY!<br />If OIYA was worthy of 4 stars, then WSM deserves 7!<br />I enjoyed reading this romance as if it was a new story.<br />To me, OIYA was a rough draft and WSM is the final polished version.<br />And the best part? The intimate scenes between Max and Lysette are hotter and spicier! Obviously, 10 years makes a difference in what was acceptable in historical romances then verses now. I say Viva la 10 years and VIVA LA KLEYPAS!<br />I definitely got my money's worth and recommend When Strangers Marry for anyone wanting a sensual and well-told romance.	2002-08-13
US	50416159	R2WZN21HNC1LJG	0553582550	637339316	Blonde Heat	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Susan Johnson can do Contemporary too!	I whined months ago when I found out that SJ's next book was going to be a Contemporary since I wanted the same old SJ who wrote Historicals.  I almost didn't buy the book but since I consider myself SJ's number one fan, I bought it begrudgingly and began reading it with the same attitude.<br />I finished the book in 36 hours with a satisfied grin and now I can't wait to see if she'll write another Contemporary.  I am hoping she'll delve further into these 3 couples and their growing relationship.  I wish she had added another 100 more pages or so.  Heck let me be greedy, I wish she had written 3 books instead!  A book for each couple.	2002-06-10
US	50416159	R2QWH2LSXOLNU0	0843948582	339435601	The Holding	Books	5	10	13	N	N	What a smart and impressive love story!	I read this book over a week ago and I still can't stop thinking about how great this book was.  I've had this book in my TBR pile for months and now I regret not having read it sooner.  I never started on it because I usually prefer the Regency/Georgian era and contemporary books compared to this earlier time period.  I now realize how wrong I was to have pre-judged the book.<br />William is our hero and a favored knight of King Henry.  He has never really had a home to call his own and thus has fought for the King for years to finally be rewarded with his own holding, Greneforde's Castle.  Cathryn is lady Greneforde and our orphaned heroine.  William meets Cathryn for the first time when he arrives at Greneforde.  His first impression of Cathryn is worst than his first impression of her castle.  Of course, he falls in love with both way before the book ends.<br />But the journey to that love is what really endeared me to this wonderful story telling.  It's been a while since I've met a hero as wonderfully well-rounded as William.  He brings to Greneforde the seeds that he's collected and kept safe all during his crusades.  He knew that when he finally got a home, he'd want to plant the best of every crop.  This is a man that is feared by the fiercest of all men!  He is big, strong, and can kill a man before the victim even knows William is near.  Thus all those that know him call him \\"The fog\\".  He doesn't yell, he doesn't need to.  He commands attention just with his presence.  Yet he is the same man that pays special attention to the caring and handling of his seeds to make sure they arrive safely at his final destination.  It's the small attentions to detail like this that distinguishes this book as three-dimensional as opposed to the run-of-the-mill romances which dish out two-dimensional characters.<br />His treatment of Cathryn is what warms me to him most of all.  He may seem to some to be more like a 20th century man who is warm, sensitive and caring.  Think Russell Crowe crossed with Tom Hanks but that's only to grasp for comparison as William defies anything to really compare with.  He is sensitive because he is observant of everything around him.  That is what makes him a great knight and ultimately an ideal husband.  Ideal being that he puts the needs of his wife first because he can sense her when she's distressed or in need.  Sigh, this is why I love romance novels.  What girl doesn't dream of this stuff!<br />The Biblical references about honor and love are wonderful and appropriate for a romance novel.  I'd have said a mainstream romance novel but to put this delicious love story in that same category would be doing this keeper of a book a big injustice.  The references are not overbearing and would not be for even those that have never held a Bible.  To my delight, Cathryn and William are well versed (William's priest has been a part of his crusade for years) and to be a voyeur in their back and forth dueling (more like flirting and taunting-teasing) with biblical quotes and passages warmed my heart.<br />I've barely cracked the surface of why I love this book.  The back cover hints at the erotic content.  That word does not do this book justice.  Erotica leaves me cold but THE HOLDING left me hot and feverish and panting for more William.  I believe William had the same affect on Cathryn.ink Russell Crowe crossed with Tom Hanks but that's only to grasp for comparison as William defies anything to really compare with.  He is sensitive because he is observant of everything around him.  That is what makes him a great knight and ultimately an ideal husband.  Ideal being that he puts the needs of his wife first because he can sense her when she's distressed or in need.  Sigh, this is why I love romance novels.  What girl doesn't dream of this stuff!<br />The Biblical references about honor and love are wonderful and appropriate for a romance novel.  I'd have said a mainstream romance novel but to put this delicious love story in that same category would be doing this keeper of a book a big injustice.  The references are not overbearing and would not be for even those that have never held a Bible.  To my delight, Cathryn and William are well versed (William's priest has been a part of his crusade for years) and to be a voyeur in their back and forth dueling (more like flirting and taunting-teasing) with biblical quotes and passages warmed my heart.<br />I've barely cracked the surface of why I love this book.  The back cover hints at the erotic content.  That word does not do this book justice.  Erotica leaves me cold but THE HOLDING left me hot and feverish and panting for more William.  I believe William had the same affect on Cathryn.	2002-01-25
US	50416159	R2KOS4O4IW2N95	038081806X	27779014	Someone Irresistible (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Someone Irresistible is a good read but not her best.	I have been waiting for this book ever since I read Winter Garden over a year ago.  Winter Garden, to this day is one of my all time favorite romances.  And everything Harriet (the #1 reviewer) says below about Someone Irresistible is true.  However, I liked Ashworth's first three books better than this her fourth book.<br />I don't know what it is but I was not emotionally attached to the two characters.  And I never could figure out her sister or her father.  I am usually unable to put her books down but I had no problem doing that with this book.  Neither the story nor the characters grabbed a hold of me.  Even the passion was given a luke warm reception although it was written to be hotter.  I knew why he could not act on his urges and I knew why she did what she did but that doesn't mean I was thoroughly convinced or thought those were very strong reasons even after it was explained at the end.  That elusive something that makes everything click was missing in this book.<br />If this book was a first novel by an unknown author, I would praise it and claim it showed promise.  However, my expectations were much higher for Ashworth (probably not fair but this is how I feel) and thus I can only suggest you read her first three books and then read Someone Irresistible and see for yourself.	2001-12-10
US	50416159	R1KUG17ENA5CY8	0451169913	26273877	The Secret Pearl (Super Regency, Signet)	Books	5	69	71	N	N	I know why this book won for best regency romance that year	The Secret Pearl is Mary Balogh at her best.  The Secret Pearl is romance at it's best!  I finished this book last night hours after I should have been asleep.  When I can't put the book down like this, I know it's a 5 star read.<br />Adam is scarred from his battle in Waterloo but he is scarred on the inside too.  When this Duke sees a quiet unassuming prostitute standing in the shadows of a theatre, he is drawn to her although he has remained faithful to his marriage vows since he married the current duchess 5 years before.  He doesn't know why the prostitute stays on his mind after their fateful night but we find out as he eventually does that he was meant for her and she for him.  The prostitute is Fleur, a lady down on her luck or so it would seem.  Fate, it seems had let Adam and Fleur down for many years but smiles on Adam and Fleur on this fateful night.  Of course Adam and Fleur would disagree then that fate was smiling on them.  For that is the night that Fleur decided she was not going to go without food for the 3rd day in a row.  She can live or die and she makes her choice to live knowing that the only thing she had to sell at that point was her body.  The employment agency had all but laughed in her face when she sought employment without references.  She tells Adam that she had been standing there for a day or so but noone else had wanted her.  Adam doesn't wonder why as he looks Fleur over and notices her dull scraggly hair, her thin and drawn body, and her dried cracked lips.<br />Adam and Fleur are complex characters, much more than the usual two dimensional characters we get from your average romance that is churned out every month.  Even the villians aren't just evil for the sake of being evil.  They are also complex and most have their reasons for their weaknesses.<br />Adam is not a martyre.  Nor is he perfect.  He is simply an honorable man.  (I don't want to spoil anything for those about to read the book but I don't like men who cheat so don't think you'll have to accept any less in this book if you're of the same nature.  When I say honorable, I mean it in every way)  Fleur has every reason to believe Adam is a monster based on her first impression of him.  The romance is about how Fleur gets to know Adam and he her.  But more than anything it's about two people who should have nothing in common but has one main thing in common:  Neither have been loved nor cared for in a very long time although they are themselves loving and caring people.<br />I love it when the man shares his feelings with the love of his life.  And I love the way the story is told.  You get her side and then his side but it's done so smoothly you don't feel any inturruptions or jerks in the telling of the love story.  When he declared his feelings to Fleur and her vision became blurred, so did mine.  I'll admit it.  I cried.  But I cried because it was such a well written book.  But Mary always draws me in emotionally like that.  And it's not the heavy drepressing felt emotions, the kind that I can only handle now &amp; then.  (this is a true romance, not a tear-jerker docu-drama) This is light enough for a warm all over kind of feeling.  But don't be misled about this being a complex book as far as reading it goes.  There are no prerequisite readings, you don't have to recall your history lessons, you do not have to read the first 100 pages before you get to the real story.  This book allows one to escape to a different world that Mary is so good at delivering and as usual, you're already involved in the story from Chapter one.<br />If you're a Mary addict like I am, then this is a must read for you.  This book is definitely one of my top 5 Mary Balogh books from a list of 43 books I've already read of hers.  If you're new to Mary, I urge you to get this book and catch up on your sleeping and chores before you start THE SECRET PEARL because you won't be able to put the book down once you start!don't think you'll have to accept any less in this book if you're of the same nature.  When I say honorable, I mean it in every way)  Fleur has every reason to believe Adam is a monster based on her first impression of him.  The romance is about how Fleur gets to know Adam and he her.  But more than anything it's about two people who should have nothing in common but has one main thing in common:  Neither have been loved nor cared for in a very long time although they are themselves loving and caring people.<br />I love it when the man shares his feelings with the love of his life.  And I love the way the story is told.  You get her side and then his side but it's done so smoothly you don't feel any inturruptions or jerks in the telling of the love story.  When he declared his feelings to Fleur and her vision became blurred, so did mine.  I'll admit it.  I cried.  But I cried because it was such a well written book.  But Mary always draws me in emotionally like that.  And it's not the heavy drepressing felt emotions, the kind that I can only handle now &amp; then.  (this is a true romance, not a tear-jerker docu-drama) This is light enough for a warm all over kind of feeling.  But don't be misled about this being a complex book as far as reading it goes.  There are no prerequisite readings, you don't have to recall your history lessons, you do not have to read the first 100 pages before you get to the real story.  This book allows one to escape to a different world that Mary is so good at delivering and as usual, you're already involved in the story from Chapter one.<br />If you're a Mary addict like I am, then this is a must read for you.  This book is definitely one of my top 5 Mary Balogh books from a list of 43 books I've already read of hers.  If you're new to Mary, I urge you to get this book and catch up on your sleeping and chores before you start THE SECRET PEARL because you won't be able to put the book down once you start!	2001-12-03
US	50416159	R1FERIQHHXMU1R	0451163303	969322079	The Gilded Web	Books	4	31	48	N	N	The Gilded Web is a well-written and  well told love story	But this is not my favorite Mary Balogh and would not recommend it as an intro to her work.  Only because her other books are SO much better.  Not that it's not a good book compared to romances written by other authors.  But Mary Balogh is consistent if nothing and she cosistently writes EXCELLENT novels.<br />Gilded web is a Super regency romance as is the other two &quot;web&quot; books that follows this book.  I know it's not the longer than usual regency length that put me off this book because I enjoyed her other full lenth novels, Silent Melody, One Night for Love and More than a Mistress.  But I felt it was a little longer than it should have been.  Then she had to introduce the other two characters that would be in the last two books of the trilogy.  I must be spoiled.  Her stories are usually so tight and everything is tied up so well at the end that leaving a few loose ends at the end by any other author would not have bothered me but having read 20 Mary Balogh books in a row sort of had me holding her up to a certain high plateau and this book fell short of that mark just a tad.  Usually, once I start her book, I can't put it down but maybe once if even.  But I was able to put down TGW a few times.  That's probably why I'm giving this book 4 stars instead of 5.  Keep in mind, if this was the ONLY Mary Balogh book, I'd be raving about it and giving it 5 stars.<br />I'd recommend you read Silent Melody, One Night for Love and More than a Mistress first before you read TGW.  And read the regency books, Tempting Harriet, A certain magic, and Christmas Belle before you try TGW.  ALL of her regencies are superb.  I just listed my top 3.<br />A warning to those of you who expect NO SEX in regency novels.  She does put a little sex (PG-rated) in a few of her regencies but nothing too racy or even the level found in most historical romances.  Hmmm...maybe that's why Mary is my favorite regency author?  Who else can do passion without getting graphic?  Who else can get you all heated up just by describing a lady's hand being innocently kissed?get you all heated up just by describing a lady's hand being innocently kissed?	2001-11-19
US	50416159	R3DAUOQ45CGR5	0821765302	163579334	Only In Your Arms (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	What a memorable , hot and sexy love story!	This romance novel came highly recommended to me but I kept putting off reading it.  The reviews that claimed historical accuracy and references to Shakespeare were more of a turn off for me.  I prefer completely fictional romances where I don't have to worry about comparing it to 17th century history or anything that would half-way resemble a scholastic study.  I read romances for pure pleasure and not to expand my already cramped, looking for escape, college-grad, mind.<br />Therefore, I was VERY VERY pleasantly surprised when I got an entertaining love story after all!  I am now in awe of Ms. Cozzens.  Her ability to draw such fascinating and endearing characters is amazing and everyone who enjoys love stories will feel the same after reading this romance.<br />I could care less if a girl in the 1600's wouldn't be allowed some of the freedoms that Judith was allowed.  (again, historical accuracy and blah, blah)  What I care about is reading an outstanding and captivating love story and that is exactly what I got.  As I was reading about Judith and Marcus, Judith did everything that I wanted her to do.  There was nothing that would stand in her way of seeing Marcus if that is what she had to do.  How did Ms. Cozzens do that?  More to the point, how did she draw her characters so that I would not be disappointed in any of them?(even her father!) Whereas I've read other romances where the characters would fall short of my expectations and disappoint.  The characters in ONLY IN YOUR ARMS were not all good and all bad.  Ms. Cozzens really excelled at making her characters three-dimensional and not one character was less than interesting.  Be ready for an emotional roller coaster ride.  I cried like a baby at the end so be warned. (Nothing too ugly or sinister in this book to make me cry, they were the welcoming kind of tears that come from having gotten caught up in and enjoying a wonderful fantasy)<br />The hero is Marcus and he's a low-born actor.  Judith's father doesn't trust him but he's the most pure of them all.  (and he's sexy to boot!) And spunky and beautiful LADY Judith has eyes for noone else as soon as their eyes meet.  And she doesn't try to hide her dreamy eyes from her diapproving father or either of her titled fiances!  Had this story been told by a romance author from the 80's, there could have been so many misunderstandings, one after another BUT THERE WAS NOT! Instead of taking that well traveled easier road, she paved her own way.  She took the high road and she had the talent to go that route.  Because of that, we get to delight in a unique tale of courageous and self-sacraficing love.<br />Into that mix is another wonderful couple that Ms. Cozzens describes just as well.  But this is not your ordinary secondary couple.  They shined just as well as Judith and Marcus.  I relished both couples and the wonderful tapestry that is ONLY IN YOUR ARMS.<br />p.s. did I mention the very sensual love scenes?  This book deserves another star for letting us enjoy the passion these two couples can generate.oesn't trust him but he's the most pure of them all.  (and he's sexy to boot!) And spunky and beautiful LADY Judith has eyes for noone else as soon as their eyes meet.  And she doesn't try to hide her dreamy eyes from her diapproving father or either of her titled fiances!  Had this story been told by a romance author from the 80's, there could have been so many misunderstandings, one after another BUT THERE WAS NOT! Instead of taking that well traveled easier road, she paved her own way.  She took the high road and she had the talent to go that route.  Because of that, we get to delight in a unique tale of courageous and self-sacraficing love. <br />Into that mix is another wonderful couple that Ms. Cozzens describes just as well.  But this is not your ordinary secondary couple.  They shined just as well as Judith and Marcus.  I relished both couples and the wonderful tapestry that is ONLY IN YOUR ARMS.<br />p.s. did I mention the very sensual love scenes?  This book deserves another star for letting us enjoy the passion these two couples can generate.	2001-10-18
US	50416159	R9HKRV7MI8OO4	0451169166	814964355	A Certain Magic	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A certain magic exists when Mary Balogh writes!	A CERTAIN MAGIC is surely one of the best regencies or historicals I've read so far.<br />Alice and Piers have known each other since she was fourteen and he was twenty.  Piers started falling in love with her when he saw her again at age fifteen.  But as Piers was getting up the nerve to admit to his feelings, his best friend Web confessed to Piers that he was in love with Alice and intended to marry her once she was old enough.  From that day on, Piers kept his love of Alice to himself as he did not want to have to fight his friend who he loved like a brother over a woman.  Furthermore, he was sure Alice would rather have Web.  Web didn't get into trouble in his youth like Piers did and was more reliable and stable than Piers.  Piers thought Web deserved Alice a thousand times more than he did.  To even think he was worthy of Alice would be like reaching for the stars.  He kept consoling himself with this fact for the next 15 or so years through his own marriage and Alice and Web's marriage.<br />This is where the book starts off.  Piers is 36 and his Allie (his own nickname for Alice) is 30.  They are both widowed with no surviving children.  They've continued to remain good \\"friends\\" all this time and both are determined that they just remain \\"friends\\" since each would rather have some part of the other in their lives instead of admitting to their true feelings in fear of offending the other forever by having crossed the line.  Yup, Allie's been in love with Piers since she was fourteen!<br />Mary Balogh could've taken the low road like I've seen many mediocre romance authors do by making stories like this a weepy \\"bring out the hankie, oh the poor Hero/Heroine\\" type of book but instead, she paves her own high road with her excellent writing that's full of fun, laughter, and passion. The conversations between Allie and Piers are so tightly written that you can almost feel the ... tension between these two as they do everything but admit to their true feelings. (yes, this is a regency category novel but it does have mild (but passion filled)sex so be warned to those of you that go crazy at the thought of there being ... in a regency series)(I'd rate the sexual content as PG)<br />I've read almost all Mary Balogh books and loved them all but A Certain Magic and Silent Melody surely surpasses even her usual high plateau.  I paid more for A certain magic than I have for any new Mary Balogh books but now having read the book, I would have paid even more.  These used book sellers definitely know the market and I now understand why A Certain Magic is so marketable.  If you are a Mary Balogh fan, this book is a definite MUST but A Certain Magic is for anyone who believes in true love and likes to read about it.yes, this is a regency category novel but it does have mild (but passion filled)sex so be warned to those of you that go crazy at the thought of there being ... in a regency series)(I'd rate the sexual content as PG)<br />I've read almost all Mary Balogh books and loved them all but A Certain Magic and Silent Melody surely surpasses even her usual high plateau.  I paid more for A certain magic than I have for any new Mary Balogh books but now having read the book, I would have paid even more.  These used book sellers definitely know the market and I now understand why A Certain Magic is so marketable.  If you are a Mary Balogh fan, this book is a definite MUST but A Certain Magic is for anyone who believes in true love and likes to read about it.	2001-10-03
US	50416159	R1826JN9EZU3Z9	0451403029	494047746	No Greater Love (Onyx)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	No Greater Love is my favorite Katherine Kingsley book!	I did not think she could ever top her masterpiece, The Sound of Snow but boy oh boy, No Greater Love moved me like no other romance book has in a very long time.  I laughed, I cried, and I was amazed the whole time I was reading this book at how much I was enjoying it.  The phrase, &quot;it's a keeper&quot; does not do this book justice.  I just loved EVERYTHING about this book.<br />It's a well-written and well-told emotional love story that words just cannot describe.  Try to find the book first and if you're lucky enough to find it, buy it.  You'll want to vacuum seal it to keep it from yellowing just like I did after reading it.	2001-08-07
US	50416159	R3O0OW503QHE17	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I loved it!  Seduction in Mind is a delicious read!	Worry no more.  SJ's still got it!  She hasn't lost her touch.<br />I devoured this book in 24 hours.  If you're a SJ fan, you'll love this book.  If you like character driven books full of SJ's usual trademarks such as clever sexual banter and hot &amp; sweaty lovemaking, then this book is for you.<br />Thank goodness there's no kidnapping, murder plots, or adventures in the high seas to pad this love story.  That leaves more room for us to get to know Sam and Alex(the heroine).  SJ is the Queen of quick &amp; snappy adult comebacks and she burns up the pages with them.  And what woman doesn't want to read a book about a man bent on pursuing the woman of his desires?  If that's not romantic...<br />p.s., Unlike some books that uses those tiny tiny letters so you have to squint to read, this book uses a bigger (font)print so it's much easier to read.	2001-08-07
US	50416159	RWGVLYEI8VRF8	0970716974	836944725	Before The Fire	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Before the Fire is a keeper!	I loved Tia Isabella's After the Storm.  I did not think she could do any better but I was wrong.  Maybe it's because I like historicals a tad bit better than conteporaries but Before the Fire stays vivid in my mind and heart even though that was many books ago. ...<br />Before the Fire is a sensual love story about Kane and George.  If you think Kane is an unusal name for a female heroine, you have no idea how truly unique she really is.  Kane is a scientist from the future who has to travel back in time to find a cure for a deadly disease that threatens to wipe out their entire population.<br />She meets George in his time.  He's the Earl of Blackmore but she calls him her lordling.  He's amused by this and everything about her.  His body parts also have an amazing lustful reaction to her nearness too.  He offers to take her home and she refers to it as his pad.  Yup, the future may be advanced but due to a big fire that destroyed most of their old records of the past, her information of the past \\"BEFORE THE FIRE\\" is all lumped into one jumble.  She mixes her 20th century terms with the 18th century terms often to the amusement of George and all.<br />My favorite thing about Ms Isabella's writing is that she doesn't try to insult our intelligence by feeding us the tired mainstream romance formulas.  My choice example of this is George's mother.  You'd think the mother of an Earl would hate the fact that George is smitten by Kane.  That she would do everything she could to try to sabotage their relationship.  Sigh, it was SO refreshing to read a book written by someone who dares to do better than mainstream and succeeds so convincingly.  I loved George&#8217;s mother and so did Kane.<br />But my favorite part of the book was the seductive writing that describes the love that blossom between Kane and George.  The way they feel about each other gives passion a whole new meaning.  Sparks fly from the beginning and the sultry heat they generate is enough to burn a thousand books.  Good thing this is an e-book. &lt;grin><br />This book of romance/erotica will keep you warm (more like red-hot!) on those nights when a cold loveless book of erotica won&#8217;t.  I wonder if Ms Isabella is related to Chef Emeril Lagasse because she sure knows how to take a love story and &#8220;take it up a notch&#8221; by spicing up and shaking up the mainstream romance formula with HER special &#8220;essence&#8221;.  I can&#8217;t wait to devour her next book.sand books.  Good thing this is an e-book. <grin>  <br />This book of romance/erotica will keep you warm (more like red-hot!) on those nights when a cold loveless book of erotica won&#8217;t.  I wonder if Ms Isabella is related to Chef Emeril Lagasse because she sure knows how to take a love story and &#8220;take it up a notch&#8221; by spicing up and shaking up the mainstream romance formula with HER special &#8220;essence&#8221;.  I can&#8217;t wait to devour her next book.	2001-06-29
US	50416159	R1BZHX9RPBE396	097071694X	632640035	Tremors	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Tremors is my favorite Jaid Black book!	I have read all of Jaid Black's books and they are all great but if I had to pick just one, this one would be it.  Tremors was a well told love story with enough steamy sex to fog up your contact lens!<br />There are only 76 pages but boy can she pack in some great intimate scenes in just these few pages.  There are no fillers or pages and pages of boring scenery or descriptions of what clothes they are wearing.  In fact, the hero won't let the heroine wear any clothing for the duration that she's with him.  And that's not the ONLY thing he's demanding about either.  Sigh, after reading this book, I was so envious of Marie and all that Fredrik did to Marie in the bath, on the table, over the...well, you get my drift.  After I read this book, my boyfriend had no idea what had come over me or why I was suggesting we eat some strawberries and bananas or why I was walking around talking about recreating certain pages of Tremors.  But boy oh boy, YOU'LL know why after you read this well written e-book.  There are numerous memorable scorcher scenes like that all through out this book.  What I loved most of all was that each scene is unique and different....<br />I've read erotica before but Tremors truly is Romantica - a mix of romance and erotica.  My biggest complaint about erotica was that they are not well written.  They leave me cold and slapping dirty words on pages does nothing for me.  As an avid reader of alot of fiction and non-fiction books and periodicals, I think Ms. Black is a great writer, period.  That she happens to write steamy romance is just my good luck and proof that my complaints about erotica are finally being answered.  Tremors has romance and warmth whereas erotica does not.  They both have heat but I actually cared about Fredrik and Marie and what happened to them.  When they got hot, so did I.  When Fredrik's heart was in pain, I felt it too.  I wanted them to live happily ever after.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  Tremors is a well-written love story that just happens to have enough libido maxing graphic sex to teach Masters &amp; Johnson a few things!  Sigh, wish Fredrik was real so he could come teach me.  Ja baby!n love story that just happens to have enough libido maxing graphic sex to teach Masters &amp; Johnson a few things!  Sigh, wish Fredrik was real so he could come teach me.  Ja baby!	2001-06-26
US	50416159	R3GXPLIHL7ZXU8	0970716923	305662431	The Jock	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Jock is my favorite Jasmine Leveaux book!	It's been months since I finished this e-book but my body temperature goes up just thinking about Sam and Gwenyth.  I've read almost 50 romance books since then and I can only remember a few of those books and the characters even less.  Obviously, Sam and Gwenyth left a mark on my heart.<br />There's plenty of hot steamy toe-curling sex but I was hooked on the love story during the VERY FIRST PARAGRAPH.  I love books like that; that starts off good and just gets better and better the more you get to know the characters.  The secondary characters are just as lovable and deserve to get a book of their own.<br />I really fell in love with this book.  There was nothing about it that I wanted to change.  I laughed when Sam tried to imitate the Frenchman and his accent.  I understood Gwenyth's pain when she compaired herself to a more beautiful woman and found herself lacking.  But most of all, I was completely captured by the sexy bantering, the sexual heat and the great sex between the H &amp; H.  The book may be shorter than a full length novel but never short on all the good stuff!	2001-06-26
US	50416159	R15CYZ7IYA2V6I	0451140451	710723668	A London Season (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Another reason to fall in love with Joan Wolf!	I just loved this book.  I am completely amazed at what a captivating love story she could weave in a book length most authors could not do in a book twice it's size!<br />If you like strong heroines, you will love Jane as much as everyone does including her David and me.  I've read hundreds of books but never read of a heroine that is stronger than Jane.<br />I also adore love stories about a H/H who are sure of themselves and Jane and David definitely fit that mold.  There are no words to express how deeply this book affected me.  I could easily put it at the top ten of all the books I've ever read.  I could not put this book down once I started.  If you can find a copy, get it.  It took me months to find a very used copy.<br />Here's the basic story but it's the way Ms. Wolf draws the love story that is more breathtaking than anything else: Jane's parents die when she is six.  By this time, she's into ponies and riding since her parents ignore her to hide their disappointment because she was born a female.  When her father's title goes to her Uncle in England, she has to go to him too.  She doesn't cry for her parents but she does for her pony since she's told she'd have to leave her pony when she leaves her  Ireland for England.<br />Her Uncle gains her favor by giving her two ponies as a welcome gift.  The ponies are cared for by a stablehand David who is a year older than Jane at seven.<br />Jane and David become inseperable.  She has finally found someone who loves ponies as much as she.<br />The complications come once David reaches sexual maturity but Jane stays ignorant of everything but the few people she knows and of course, her horses.  The class distinctions, Jane learning to ride astride and her being given a London Season are all woven just wonderfully by Ms. Wolf.<br />It's a wonderful book to lose yourself in.  I know I will.  Again and again.	2001-05-01
US	50416159	R2KZK94A0VOQSC	0446604798	371748010	The Arrangement	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Book is so good  that she won me over even when I resisted!	This was my first Joan Wolf book.  After the first few words, I wondered if this would be my last.  After I finished this book, I could not wait to get back on-line to buy more of her books!<br />I do not ever recall reading a romance book from a first person point of view (POV) and I'll admit I didn't like it at first. But I kept reading it because I thought it would be too shallow of me to stop reading just because I wasn't used to this POV.  What if it was a great book anyway?  Of course, my intuition was correct and the book is a definite keeper.  And keeping an open mind did have it's rewards.  And the rewards are so so sweet. (But grab a hankie just in case!  HINT, HINT) When the plot starts to thicken, you'll also realize how clever Ms Wolf was for writing this book from the heroine's POV.<br />Once more light was shed on the horoine's past, I regretted my earlier luke warm feelings for this book.  Oh what a fool I was!  I wanted to reread the book right there and then!  I was amazed.  I was awed.  I was won over completely and so will you.  This book definitely goes on my keeper shelf and if you haven't read The Arrangement yet, you are missing out on a very good book.  Don't fret too much over the mild sex.  If you read my other reviews, you know that I do prefer steamy if not explicit sex scenes in my romance books but I'm flexible and variety they say is the spice of life.  I had just gotten through reading Susan Johnson's latest novel anyway so I was ready for a break and The Arrangement was just what I needed.	2001-03-23
US	50416159	R24PHS35ZVWJHB	044022182X	802593234	The Marriage Bed	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Americana Romance at it's finest	This is my first book by this Author and if this book is any indication, go buy the rest of her books!  This is a very well written romance and tugs at your emotions at exactly the right moments.<br />When I'm introduced to a new author, my first question is always, which well-known author compares to this author?  I'm hesitant to say Pamela Morsi and Lavyrle Spencer.  Because I've known folks who liked Morsi but not Spencer &amp; vice versa.  Mittman is in a wonderful class all by herself.  Her style and her way of telling a story is down-to-earth, heart-wrenching yet warm and folksy with a touch of sensuality to boot!  Most of all, it's easy to read and from the first word, it draws you in and holds you until the very last page, the very last word.  (I love Spencer but Mittman is not as wordy as Spencer, thank goodness!)<br />It took me a while to find a copy of this book and by the time I got it, it had been recommended to me several times and rated five hearts (and such) by more than one professional romance book reviewer on several websites.  Therefore, I did have high expectations.  I was not disappointed and I'm happy to report that all the praise was well deserved.<br />The first chapter had my stomach in knots.  But at least I wasn't bored.  I usually prefer the man to fall in love w/the woman first and spend the rest of the book making her fall in love w/him.  Well, this book starts off the opposite way.<br />What I love about this book is how it fools you and lets you think it's about a push over woman who is content to be a doormat for a guy who is emotionally dead.  After the first chapter, I was convinced it was going to be one of those Grapes of Wrath sad stories about suffering and more suffering on the woman's part.  I couldn't have been more wrong.<br />This book was easy to read but the story is complex and Ms. Mittman handles it so wonderfully that all you can do is hang on and stop speculating about what's going to come next and just enjoy the ride.<br />The editorial review about the story content tells you what the book is about.  But I just wanted to make sure that not only will you enjoy the story line but the tone as well.  Story is great but it's only as good as the story teller.  Two people can tell a story or a joke but one is obviously better at telling the story or joke.  Ms. Mittman is one fine story teller.  She had me clinging onto her every word and turning the pages.  A sure indicator of a keeper!ide.  <br />The editorial review about the story content tells you what the book is about.  But I just wanted to make sure that not only will you enjoy the story line but the tone as well.  Story is great but it's only as good as the story teller.  Two people can tell a story or a joke but one is obviously better at telling the story or joke.  Ms. Mittman is one fine story teller.  She had me clinging onto her every word and turning the pages.  A sure indicator of a keeper!	2001-02-15
US	50416159	R2TS5X9UWTBSH6	067165831X	786049421	Hot Shot	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Not my favorite SEP book but I still recommend it	I've read almost all her books and never thought I'd ever give her less than five stars but this early SEP style is a little different than what I am used to and I prefer the style of her later books.  Of course, SEP at worst is still great when compared to alot of what is out there in the mainstream romance category.<br />Not that this book is bad in ANY way.  It reads well as I would expect from SEP but it's not my idea of what I want to read when I read for escapism/fantasy.  It had a little too much real-life senarios for my taste.<br />I also don't want any confusion about who the hero and heroine is supposed to be. It's been over a month since I read Hot Shot and I still get an uneasy feeling when I think of Sam and what he did to Suzi.  Guys like that exist in real life, I don't want that in my fantasy.  I want to feel good and warm and happy.  I want happily ever after with the same guy in my romances.  Nothing dark is welcome there.  I also thought Suzi should have woken up and smelled the coffee a long time before she did.  And that was ONLY by accident!  How long would she have kept her head buried in the sand?  I prefer my heroines a little stronger.  And her running away for as long as she did did not impress me either.  I understand and I might have done the same thing but Suzi is my heroine, not me.  I want my heroine to do all the gutsy stuff that I could never do, that's why I read FICTION.<br />As usual, all of SEP's characters are well drawn and you still get a good story written very skillfully.  Her writing is one of the best in her field and she doesn't fail here.  Don't get me wrong, there is a happy ever after - but with a twist.  I also loved the part about when she was a little girl and how she looked up to her step-father as the golden prince who came to rescue her.  That and Suzi's ever-lasting devotion to her step-father and the way that SEP explains it all is the SEP I know and love!<br />But I also agree w/other reviewers when she got detailed about the computer field.  It is interesting, just not what I want in my romance.  Obviously, I have conflicting feelings about this book.  If you're like me and label yourself SEP's number one fan, then by all means, go get this book and read it.<br />If you want to read a short saga about a high-class young woman growing up and changing into a more confident woman during the computer revolution in the silicon valley before silicon valley became a household word and about the three men that shaped her life, then this book is for you.t detailed about the computer field.  It is interesting, just not what I want in my romance.  Obviously, I have conflicting feelings about this book.  If you're like me and label yourself SEP's number one fan, then by all means, go get this book and read it.<br />If you want to read a short saga about a high-class young woman growing up and changing into a more confident woman during the computer revolution in the silicon valley before silicon valley became a household word and about the three men that shaped her life, then this book is for you.	2001-01-13
US	50416159	R3TG4XRGX9HI5M	1892520184	150487850	The Renegade's Woman	Books	5	54	58	N	N	One of the best erotic romances I've ever read!	This is a wonderful love story to indulge your fantasies in without having to censor anything.  About an indian man who spots a bathing white woman in the woods during the days when whites &amp; indians were still warring with each other.  When she sees him, she runs. He pursues her until she relents.  Willingly.  All this in the first chapter.  This book is only 54 pages long but that phrase &quot;dynamite comes in small packages&quot; is oh so true here.  The heroine is a virgin but with only 54 pages, no time for drama and game playing.  But don't get me wrong, everything here is consensual.  I'd never recommend a book otherwise.<br />The sexual heat that these two can generate will have you on page 54 before you can take a breath and say, &quot;WOW&quot;.  Thank goodness she does't use any fillers or feel that she has to pad the book and make it longer. She doesn't bore you with pages of scenery and descriptions of the outfits the heroine is having made for her.  Boring is one word you will not utter when discussing this book.  Think you'll get bored with the erotic content after they've gotten together more than once?  Think again.  Each intimate moment is unique and gets hotter and hotter as you get further into the book.<br />What this book does is fill a category that has been ignored and never addressed until now.  It's about time.  I love reading romance novels but sometimes, I want more details.  My biggest complaint when reading G or PG rated romance novels was that these were fine for teenagers to read but what about us non-blushing, non-virgin adults who want more than the vague hints at the intimacy between the two main characters?  After all, Susan Johnson can write only so fast. But one is not a substitue for the other.  Ms. Black is much more fast paced due to the short length (but you still get a plot that's easy to follow) and their writing styles altho great, differ.  SJ can do snappy &amp; smart dialogue that'll soak your panties.  But I enjoy both their writing and I put them at the top of the list of erotic romance writers. Both are miles above R.Schone, T.Devine, and even Bertrice Smalls.<br />Erotica leaves me cold.  I don't blush but then again, I don't want anything sick or disgusting either and that seems to be the trend in erotica these days.  That's why I'm so glad this niche is being filled.  Call me old fashioned but I want them to make love and declare a commitment to each other.  Think of this as mainstream romance with all the dirty parts still intact!  This erotic romance was so hot that it burnt me to a crisp.  I was left sizzling.  Most of all, it reads well.  The author is a well established romance writer and it shows. (I just found out today from her web site that Nikita Black is her pen name.)([...]) Her writing &amp; delivery is smooth.  Therefore, Renegade's woman has these three things:  Romance, sizzling-graphic-consensual love making, and great writing to carry it all off without a hitch.  I repeat, &quot;IT'S ABOUT TIME!&quot;both their writing and I put them at the top of the list of erotic romance writers. Both are miles above R.Schone, T.Devine, and even Bertrice Smalls.<br />Erotica leaves me cold.  I don't blush but then again, I don't want anything sick or disgusting either and that seems to be the trend in erotica these days.  That's why I'm so glad this niche is being filled.  Call me old fashioned but I want them to make love and declare a commitment to each other.  Think of this as mainstream romance with all the dirty parts still intact!  This erotic romance was so hot that it burnt me to a crisp.  I was left sizzling.   Most of all, it reads well.  The author is a well established romance writer and it shows. (I just found out today from her web site that Nikita Black is her pen name.)([...]) Her writing &amp; delivery is smooth.  Therefore, Renegade's woman has these three things:  Romance, sizzling-graphic-consensual love making, and great writing to carry it all off without a hitch.  I repeat, &quot;IT'S ABOUT TIME!&quot;	2000-10-19
US	50416159	R2SSTTU80QBY2Y	0380767589	352678884	To the Ends of the Earth	Books	5	38	44	N	N	Could not put this romance book down once I picked it up!	This is the best contemporary I have read in a very long time.  (For the last few years, I've been reading about three to four novels a week.  70% are historicals and 30% contemps.)<br />From the moment I opened the book, I was hooked.  I actually forgot to eat my supper!  For someone who lives to eat (as opposed to most folks who eat to live) this is a good indicator of the books captivating pull.  When I went outside to tell my man that I forgot to fix dinner, he asked why I had to bring my novel with me.  I didn't even realize I was holding it!  It was as if I didn't want to leave the euphoric cloud that my head was in.  The wonderful world that Elizabeth Lowell created in her book To the ends of the earth.  From the minute Cat(Cathy) and Travis meet, they are instantly attracted to each other.  How refreshing!  I didn't have to wait until the middle of the book for them to admit to themselves that they liked the other.  When I meet someone, I know within five minutes whether I'm attracted to them or not.  No wonder then that I was instantly drawn to this book.<br />By the time I got to work the next day, I was bad off. Since I had stayed up late reading, I had gotten very little sleep.  I actually thought about calling in sick so I could finish reading this book.  I don't smoke but took cigarette breaks during work just so I could read another few pages!  Same thing during bathroom breaks and lunch breaks.  So don't say I didn't warn you.  Do not pick this book up to read until after you have done your chores.  Preferably, read it over the weekend.  There are no boring parts in this book.  No wonder I couldn't put the book down.  And the sensual heat that these two were able to generate... hoo-boy!  Nothing too graphic but just enough sexual tension to keep me turning those pages.<br />I went through all my emotional ranges.  I was intrigued, excited, heated, and yes, my eyes got a little watery at one point.  I even felt anger at Travis and if the book was written any other way, I might have given this book 4 and a half stars because he can be such a jerk sometimes.  Thank goodness Cat knows how to handle him, where the door is and how to use it.  Thank goodness she's no doormat.  Far, far from it.  In most books, I always feel that the guys never suffers enough for their misdeeds but in this book, I truly felt that Travis learned his lesson.  I thought the Author handled that part very well.  Most of all, I really identified with Cat.  In most romances, I usually remember the hero &amp; rarely the heroine.  Cat is the exception.  I can't think of any heroine that was more strong, determined and plucky than Cat.<br />Travis learns that money can't buy hapiness but I did buy a little happiness when I bought this book.  This is why I read romance.tten any other way, I might have given this book 4 and a half stars because he can be such a jerk sometimes.  Thank goodness Cat knows how to handle him, where the door is and how to use it.  Thank goodness she's no doormat.  Far, far from it.  In most books, I always feel that the guys never suffers enough for their misdeeds but in this book, I truly felt that Travis learned his lesson.  I thought the Author handled that part very well.  Most of all, I really identified with Cat.  In most romances, I usually remember the hero &amp; rarely the heroine.  Cat is the exception.  I can't think of any heroine that was more strong, determined and plucky than Cat.<br />Travis learns that money can't buy hapiness but I did buy a little happiness when I bought this book.  This is why I read romance.	2000-10-11
US	50416159	R37X4I7U26PVCZ	0515119482	627191696	Day Dreamer	Books	5	14	15	N	N	So glad I read Day Dreamer.  What a find!	Why have I never heard of Jill Marie Landis until now? I'm agonizing over the fact that I could've been enjoying her books all these years.  Needless to say I plan to make up for all that lost time by making sure she's on my &quot;get anything written by her&quot; list.<br />I usually prefer a character driven romance where it's heavy on the dialogue.  The plot, settings, action and adventure are rarely important to me.  Day Dreamer showed me that I just needed to read the right book to open my eyes to what a well rounded romance is all about.  This book has it all.  And this author can handle it so well that it's never overwhelming or chaotic. Which is what I expected (having been disappointed by other lesser authors) but was so pleased to find I was way off base.  Her writing is so smooth and tight that nothing feels half-right or half-done.<br />She made me slowly fall in love with Cord.  The Hero.  I thought he was pathetic at first.  And credit must be given to the author when he can call the heroine a nag and can make it sound endearing.  He is definitely not a one or a two dimensional character.  Both Cord and Celine are complex characters.  She gives back just as well as he can throw it at her. ( but it took me longer than it did Celine to forgive him for...well, I don't want to spoil it but suffice it to say she wasn't entirely blameless and he does such a nice job of making up for it)<br />The back cover just does not do justice to describe this book.  Heck, I'm having a hard time attempting to convey what a treasure this book is.<br />And oh the steam they can generate.  Yes, I've saved the best for last.  For what is a romance without romance?  I usually prefer the R to R-17 rated books.  Day Dreamer is sensual but I'd rate it at PG-13 to R. But would I change a word?  Never! Will I read this book again in the near future and need a fan to cool me when I read the love scenes again?  Absolutely!	2000-10-09
US	50416159	R1DJPBHOZQHYXM	0380786451	974979200	Sleeping Beauty	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Judith Ivory's seductive writing takes my breath away	When I read her book Bliss (written as Judy Cuevas) I thought it was the best book I had read in a VERY long time.  And I read 3 to 4 novels a week.  Dance was even better.  Beast was just as great.  But I feel as though if Sleeping Beauty was written just for me.  If someone asked me what I wanted in a perfect romance, this is it.  This is not a suspense/romance, or any other combo-romance.  This is a TRUE ROMANCE.  Yes, there is suspense but not at the cost of giving me what I want:  A great story about two people falling in love despite the dictates of the society in which they live.<br />If you need lots of action/gore/murder/betrayal and worst of all, a BIG MISUNDERSTANDING to get you interested in a love story, then this is not for you.  Nor is this a G rated book, thank goodness.  This book does not insult your intelligence but that does not mean it reads like a textbook.  It's VERY easy to read.  You know what he/she thinks and feels.  This is one element that Ivory truly excels at.  I've read so many other authors where I can never figure out what the hero is feeling or when the two are getting hot &amp; heavy, they suddenly become mute as far as the reader can tell.  Let me tell you, you will need a cold shower after reading about some of the heated moans and pants these two can generate.  I also loved the fact that this book turned the tables on the old 70's &amp; 80's romance stand by.  This time, it's the woman who is older and more sexually experienced.  And he declares his love for her first and he never falters in his pursuit of her from the minute he meets her.  What woman wouldn't want all that!  Not me &amp; Coco.	2000-09-26
US	50416159	R1APWQ1TJ5X6PV	0821769820	244919481	The Lady's Tutor	Books	3	41	49	N	N	five stars but deducting one each for sodomy &amp; pedophelia	It's been 2 days since I finished The Lady's tutor.  I still feel a bit uneasy and uncomfortable when I think back on the book.  I wish and want to  think about the many good parts of the book but I can't.  I only picture  the one sick/disgusting bedroom scene that I don't ever want to think about  again. (sodomy) Then I think about what happens to her son. (pedophelia) I  hear about these things in some &quot;real-TV&quot; shows.  So why would I  want to spend my good money on a book to read about that instead of  something good in life?  When I pick up a romance, I don't want perversion  in my fairy tale fantasy world.<br />I can't imagine any sane person wanting  sordid ugliness in their fantasy/dream world.  A friend of mine told me to  skip those parts and concentrate on the good parts.  Well, I wanted to do  that.  The good parts were really good.  But when I was getting all hot  &amp; bothered by her great bedroom scenes and sex talk between the hero  &amp; heroine, why did she have to throw cold water in my face w/such  horridness!  Talk about ruining the mood!  (She did this in the Lover too!  I didn't bother to review that book since I agreed wholeheartedly with the  review titled 9 &amp; 1/2 weeks meets silence of the lambs.  VERY  on-the-mark)<br />I like Schone's writing better than Bertrice Small.  But  when it comes to pure historic romance/erotica, Susan Johnson still reigns.  Of course if you want sodomy and pedophilia thrown in with your  romance/erotica, do read the Lady's Tutor.  If you want incest thrown in  w/your r/e, do read Bertrice Small's Skye O'malley.<br />If you're like my  friend and you believe you can over look the small bad parts, then please  get this book for the good heated bantering that goes on between the hero  &amp; heroine. (this part of the book is worth five stars) I think the two  talking is even hotter than when the two actually get to know each other in  EVERY way.<br />I have friends some of whom happen to be gay.  I know there  are men who like to dress as women.  I know there are bad cruel parents in  this world.  I know awful things happen to the children of this world.  I  know I can go to the library and there are plenty of books on these  subjects in the NON-FICTION section.  But that does not mean I want any of  this reality in my dream world.  That is why I buy fiction. I want to read  of a happy place where love is forever after and he loves her &amp; she  loves him(and the pleasure they give each other is wonderful &amp;  graphically detailed).  And all the ugliness in the world, especially the  illegal perverted stuff does not have a place there.  Does it in yours?.  I know there  are men who like to dress as women.  I know there are bad cruel parents in  this world.  I know awful things happen to the children of this world.  I  know I can go to the library and there are plenty of books on these  subjects in the NON-FICTION section.  But that does not mean I want any of  this reality in my dream world.  That is why I buy fiction. I want to read  of a happy place where love is forever after and he loves her &amp; she  loves him(and the pleasure they give each other is wonderful &amp;  graphically detailed).  And all the ugliness in the world, especially the  illegal perverted stuff does not have a place there.  Does it in yours?	2000-09-05
US	50416159	R1B9SMH1SFG0HT	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Dark Magic...not gory but Glory, as in Glorious Gregori!	This is what was going through my mind as I opened the book:  While I waited for this 4th book ( I read Feehan's first 3 books months ago) I had worried that I may have anticipated the wait too much and now the book  would never meet my forever increasing expectations.  Expectations which  seemed to heighten the longer I waited.  At this point, I felt bad for the  book since unless it was going to be the perfect book, it would surely  disappoint me.  I also worried about the heroine.  I've know Gregori  through the first 3 books and knew this hero would need a strong heroine  (i.e.:  non-whiny).  Nothing ruins a good book like an ill-matched couple.  You know the kind.  You'll be reading a book w/disbelief that the hero can  be attracted to such a helpless, whiny, always breaking out in tears kind  of annoying female.  On top of that, the day I got the book, I wasn't in  the mood to read another bloody vampire novel.  I'd just gotten through  reading a mediocre vampire/wolf book (not Feehan obviously) and was in the  mood for a different genre. (or so I thought)<br />Sigh, all my worries were  for naught.  She did not disappoint.  And that's as understating it as if I  had said Gregori could do a few slight of hand tricks.  Feehan surpassed  all my &quot;hard-to-live-up-to&quot; expectations and erased all the  useless worries from my mind as easily as Gregori could to any  mortal.<br />Savannah is a perfect match for Gregori.  The discovery of how  good a match they are is revealed in a timely manner to both Gregori and  the reader.  Her strengths aren't just her determined spirit and nature but  best of all, her sense of humor.  This book instills at the right times, a  sense of humor which is not at all out of place.  I want to give examples  but I want you to discover every one of them yourself.  I want you to enjoy  as I did how they each compliment the other as no one else can.  How they  become better people...oops, I meant, Carpathians by having the other in  their immortal life.<br />And whether Carpathians or mortals, isn't that what  it's all about? Two that become better as one.  Why else team up?  I wish  this book had been hundreds of pages longer.  I could go on reading about  this new side of Gregori now that his light beacon (lifemate)by the name of  Savannah has transformed him by giving him hope.  I won't ask if there will  be a next book to this series but instead hope the next book is going to be  about Julian and that professional singer.  My canines are already itching  to bite into Feehan's next book.in  their immortal life.<br />And whether Carpathians or mortals, isn't that what  it's all about? Two that become better as one.  Why else team up?  I wish  this book had been hundreds of pages longer.  I could go on reading about  this new side of Gregori now that his light beacon (lifemate)by the name of  Savannah has transformed him by giving him hope.  I won't ask if there will  be a next book to this series but instead hope the next book is going to be  about Julian and that professional singer.  My canines are already itching  to bite into Feehan's next book.	2000-07-11
US	50416159	R135517YXGHLRD	0553578677	883049328	Legendary Lover	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Book is HOT HOT HOT!  Don't burn yourself on these pages	Some authors add horror, suspense, mystery and other extravant plot twists to their love stories because their romance can't stand on their own. Us die hard SJ fans know why she doesn't need these other crutches and you  will too after you read this book.  Heck, she could write about grass  growing and make it sound fascinating, clever, and romantic.  With  Legendary Lover, her settings are less lavish and adventurous than her  earlier books Blaze and Sinful.  Thank goodness!  Because this allows her  to concentrate on the more important things, such as letting us see how  this very smart, independent and sexually experienced couple battle each  other with their quick wit, clever dialogue and oh-so-hot bedroom scenes!  (hint:  this couple is not restricted to the bedroom only!  ...As if you  could hold these 2 back from their burning passion with ANY  restrictions)<br />There is a distinct difference from SJ and other so-called  &quot;erotic-romance&quot; writers.  Robin Schone, Thea Devine and Bertrice  Smalls all left me cold.  SJ is the teacher and the rest are her pupils.  When I say this book is hot, that means not only are the words hot, but the  way she puts them together can just take your breath away.  When Venus felt  a stir in her stomach, so did I.  The cadence of this book is perfection.  Just like the anticipation of the ideal roller coaster ride, when you  finally catch your breath from the last heated physical and verbal exchange  between Venus and Jack, you realize the ride has barely begun and at the  next sharp incline, you hang on tight for the ride of your life because the  next exchange between Venus and Jack WILL take your breath away! And as the  roller coaster screams down the track, scream away because Venus and Jack  can't hear you above their own deafening cries.	2000-05-15
US	50416159	R6A2RWPV1TT8Y	0515111856	756294929	Wild Oats	Books	5	29	31	N	N	This is her best novel to date (and I've read them all!)	I'm amazed noone else has written a review of this book yet!  I just got thru reading all of PM's books and this is my favorite of them all! (the rest are just as good but I must admit Cora and Jedwin are my 2 favorite  characters.  They are good, caring people, in heart and deed.  They inspire  each other and encourage each others dreams.(hint:  this is a good thing)  Nor do they play silly little mind games by teasing each other, hurting  each other intentionally &amp; other mean &amp; nasty things.<br />The beauty  of PM's books are that they don't focus on anything bad, negative or evil.  If you like positive stories, about good every day kind of people, then  this is for you.  If you need horror, murder, time travel, sci-fi added to  your romance, this isn't the book.  Nor is this about a Duke, a princess,  an Earl, an heiress or a Lord. (gosh, aren't there enough of those kinds of  books out there already?)<br />But what it is, it is the best at.  Romance.  Sweet, warm, romance.  (with enough spice to &quot;kick it up a  notch&quot;) The characters in this book aren't rich yet they are rich with  feelings, caring and thoughtfulness.  But what I love most of all is that  he pursues her and declares his love for her first.  Any reader who's read  more than one romance novel knows what a rare situation that is.  Even when  she gives up on them, he doesn't.  Sigh....isn't that romantic?  Furthermore, you know what they are feeling.  Why they feel the way they  do.  This part is what make a good writer a great writer.  The ability to  make me &quot;feel&quot; the mood of the book. Heck, I'm no angel but after  I got thru reading the book, I wanted to be more virtuous, I wanted to  think that the few uncaring, cold people in my life maybe had reasons for  being that way, that maybe they aren't that bad after all.  Yes, this is a  feel good book.<br />Last but certainly not least, you get a little more spice  than you would from any Lavyrle Spencer novel.(Lavyrle is another favorite  of mine and she has her strengths but I don't read her novels for spice)  I  mention her because both authors can write about the most simplest, poorest  people living in the smallest, most desolate towns but at the end of the  book, you're left feeling warm all over because you're left feeling richer  in the heart  than any Duke, prince, or heiress could in their pocketbooks.  (Not to mention my libido)Heck, who am I kidding, I was feeling warm all  over, PERIOD!is another favorite  of mine and she has her strengths but I don't read her novels for spice)  I  mention her because both authors can write about the most simplest, poorest  people living in the smallest, most desolate towns but at the end of the  book, you're left feeling warm all over because you're left feeling richer  in the heart  than any Duke, prince, or heiress could in their pocketbooks.    (Not to mention my libido)Heck, who am I kidding, I was feeling warm all  over, PERIOD!	2000-05-12
US	50416159	R3MTDBUXZRYEEQ	0821752308	343564308	Risque	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Her writing style doesn't excite this reader	As I was reading this book, I kept thinking, surely I'd start enjoying this book as soon as I got into it.  Unfortunately, that never happened.  There is something very mediocre about this writing style.  The words are  there.  The same words that better authors have used to excite me and make  me stay up past my bed time with that &quot;can't put this book down&quot;  feeling.  That is what I wanted but definitely did not get with this book.  When I realized the book wasn't going to get any better, I had to force  myself to finish this book.  There are so many better romance writers out  there now, I am shocked and surprised that the editor of this book did not  encourage a better rewrite!<br />This book is like going to a restaurant and  ordering a featured dish.  The waiter makes your mouth drool by letting you  know about all the ingredients that are in the dish and when it's placed it  front of you, it has a nice presentation and a mouth watering aroma.  However, with your first bite, you realize the disappointment.  You can't  believe how bland it tastes even though it's got all those spices (sex and  sexual overtures)that you usually enjoy.  You finish the meal, still not  quite satisfied and wishing you had ordered something else.	2000-05-05
US	50416159	R3APVZZV7ZO9G	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	This book deserves more stars than just five!	I've read all but 2 of SEP's books.  I never thought she could reach the plateau of some of her earlier books.  Boy was I wrong!  This book is different than her previous books but in a &quot;better&quot; way - if  that's possible!  After I started this book, I no longer realized I was  reading, I didn't even have to make an effort to read, they literally  jumped off the pages.  I wish I was a writer so I could precisely convey  how easy her books are to read.  (this is a book for adults but she doesn't  try to impress you by putting in rarely used words you have to look up in  the dictionary.)  She doesn't have to TRY to impress, her writing says it  all.  The act of reading becomes pleasure.  I was hooked.  I read the book  in one day.  SEP is the best romance writer, PERIOD.<br />And I am so glad I  ignored all the negative reviews (some of the one's I read are so off base  and completely unfounded! PLEASE, judge for yourself!)and read the book  anyway.  To me, this is her best book to date and I wish I didn't have to  wait til 2001 for her next book as it informed me at the end of the book.  THAT was the only part of the book I didn't like!	2000-02-28
US	50416159	R3N9SK0LNBG6D4	0380786044	108826361	A Dangerous Man	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Overall good book but	the ending left me unsatisfied.  It's one thing to say this &amp; that happened.  But it's another to CONVINCE me of it.  Maybe it's because I was never fully convinced that Nicky could love Tory (I wanted him to feel that  earth shattering love).  I thought this was more one sided; on Tory's part.  Even at the end, he was attending a ball with another woman!  I prefer a  hero who CONVINCINGLY changes his ways.  Why couldn't he fall in love with  her first?  She was doing all the heart wrenching stuff. Near the end, she  hung around for months waiting for him (not that he made any promises to  her or gave her ANY indication of a future or even a future meeting! ) and  he didn't even acknowledge her during that time!  It's hard to admire a  woman who doesn't think she deserves better than that.  Don't get me wrong,  a few words here and there at the last few chapters and I would have given  it 4 or 5 stars.	2000-02-14
US	50416159	R28MBB7S48CTA6	0345323645	237942112	Skye O'Malley	Books	1	24	34	N	N	Erotica maybe but DEFINITELY not a romance	I am an adult so sex between two people who love each other does not make me feel uncomfortable.  However, numerous bed partners and Skye's lack of.... EVERYTHING except too much guts does.  I had no idea there was such a fine line between romance and erotica but this novel is not a romance.  I  was very disappointed with the way Skye was treated...heck, the way  EVERYONE was treated!<br />I like sex but I like romance to go with it.  That  is, romance between the 2 meant to be lovers.  There was more sex between  Skye and other men than she had with Niall!  I need to be emotionally drawn  to the book and this book just did not do it.  I'm sticking to Susan  Johnson and Lisa Kleypas where I get sex and ever lasting love.<br />This  book talked of love and even when Skye spoke of love, it still left me  cold.  And I don't look for realism in my romances but PHULEEEESE, the  situations she gets into, the things that happen to her, the  misunderstandings, sheesh!  I've read romances for many years and I've  swallowed much but this book was too much of everything except loving  devotion and emotion.	2000-01-12
US	50416159	R30TA6ZKQDL73R	0380761513	191666433	Only With Your Love (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	41	50	N	N	This is my favorite Lisa Kleypas book....	...and I've read them all except for her earlier books (before 1990) ONLY because I haven't been able to get my hands on them yet!  Actually, all her books are great.  This continues on the exciting Vallerand family but you  don't have to read them in sequence to enjoy it.  The love scenes are  sensual and all throughout the book!  That is one of the best things about  Ms. Kleypas.  She spoils us with wonderful and frequent heated, steamy  romance.  The two main characters who are destined for each other are very  likeable and he wants her to want him as much as he wants her.  I really  like this aspect.  Him wanting her more rather than the other way around as  is usual in most romance novels.  There is also a good plot and just when  you think you have it all figured out, she'll throw you a curve ball just  to make sure you're on your toes.<br />It also reads very smoothly.  All her  books are well written and I went thru all her books too quickly.  I wish  she had written more.  I look foward to reading them all over again.  Before her, I never had the desire to keep any romance books permanently  but you will want to keep this book after you read it.<br />This book affected  me the same as a nice glass of wine would have; warm, happy, content, and  craving another one exclaiming disappointed disbelief that it's gone  already.	1999-12-30
US	50416159	R5DBPYCREZKAM	055357213X	155390976	Brazen	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Steamiest novel ever!  For grown ups only!	While I was reading this book, I kept telling my boyfriend that this is the book that I've been looking for.  It is written for an EXPERIENCED ADULT.  Unlike this book, most of the books I've read before Susan Johnson  were about virgins w/strange unrecognized feelings for a man/hero who wears  a scowl on his face for the first 3/4 of the book.  There is usually only  one bedroom scene and the man/hero only declares his love for the woman  once and that is at the end of the book. This book is far different from  that tired formula.  First of all, Angela is 35 and has 2 children.  Being  so used to the &quot;virgin&quot; formula, I was a little weary at first  but needless to say, I have been born-again!<br />I started this book one  night at 6pm and stayed up past my 11pm bed time &amp; ended up staying up  til 4am!  I literally could not put this book down.  I finished it the next  day (no chores got done!)and then started reading the book over again!  I've NEVER had the slightest urge before to re-read a remance novel!  I  would not change one written word of this novel.  That's how good it is.  It definitely encourages your libido and my boyfriend was VERY greatful to  Susan Johnson for the mood it put me in. He is now her biggest fan as am I.	1999-12-22
