US	50421177	R2C37L4HGF6ZAF	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More romance, less suspense, please	In some reviews for other books, I have alluded to this new trend in contemporary authors to sublimate the romance part of the story in favor of a full-fledged suspense/mystery.  While in itself there is nothing wrong with that, when I pick up a book from the Romance section of my local bookstore, I am looking for something specific.  I mean, I have to assume most of us are not so directionally challenged that we couldn't find the suspense/fiction books if that's what we were looking for.<br />In McNaught's latest offering, Leigh Manning is an extremely talented broadway actress basking in her latest theater triumph. She is going to meet her beloved husband Logan at their out-of-the-way cabin when she gets caught in a blizzard and loses control of her car.  Next thing she knows, she wakes up in the hospital and no one can tell her where her husband is.  As the days go by, the police uncover a series of clues that implicate a whole array of characters in Logan's disappearance--including Leigh herself--and the painful truth that he may not have been quite what he seemed.<br />That's it in a nutshell.  The romance aspect of the story is so mininal that I don't need to mention it for you to get an accurate synopsis of the book.  That's what really bugged me.  If I was judging this solely as a romance, I would give this 3, or maybe even 2, stars.  But because the suspense/mystery part is well orchestrated, I will still give this four stars.<br />As you can imagine, Leigh encounters romance along the way, although it is really not that stellar--such great things could've been done with such a sympathetic hero!  I was much more intriged by the romance that evolved between two of the officers investigating the case, and would've happily read a whole book about Sam and Mack instead of the six or so meager pages the author alloted them.<br />Bottom line, if you're looking for a love story with lots of emotional highs and lows accompanied by steamy scenes, THIS AIN'T IT.  On the other hand, if you're simply looking for a good whodunit, this is well worth the purchase.	2003-12-15
US	50421177	R1M0R6YQE7R0WY	0743467426	163102400	I Burn for You (Primes Series, Book 1)	Books	4	58	60	N	N	I Expected Too Much...	If you've been following Christine Feehan's Carpathian series, this is right up your alley.  Certain elements are eerily similar-the instant recognition of a lifelong mate, the thirst for blood, the distinction between the good vampires and the evil ones, etc...However, because I knew all this from having read the other reviews, I was expecting something with the impact of \\"Dark Prince\\".  This book, while good, doesn't quite measure up.<br />Alec Reynard is in trouble.  The drugs he uses to go about in daylight are wearing off, and he finds himself in danger of reverting to primal ways.  To further complicate things, he has just found his mate, only he doesn't dare approach her in his current unstable state.<br />Domini Lancer, professional security expert and psychic, has been having strange dreams lately.  Even weirder is having the man of her dreams, literally, show up as her company's newest hire!  Now she's got to find a way to suppress her attraction to Alec while they work together to protect a celebrity from deadly threats.<br />As I mentioned before, the similarities with the Carpathian series are numerous: there is a secret agency of human hunters, the males' ever-present fear of losing control and hurting others, the psychic mortal women, their own language, etc...Some changes do exist-the classification and hierarchy of vampires is quite different, and the details are at times confusing to those of us conversant in vampire lore (for instance, silver doesn't hurt vampires, it hurts werewolves).  Also, these vampires eat food and don't seem to drink much blood-and yet we're told Alec craves Domini's.  There is no great color-seeing, calming change that comes over the male when he finds his mate-it's a lot more like your everyday, regular relationship...Hence some of my disappointment, I guess.<br />On the other hand, it was great having a heroine with a mind of her own.  I stopped reading Feehan because her ladies are generally TSTL (Too Stupid To Live), and behave more like petulant 11-year-olds than grown women with working brains.  I like that Sizemore's heroine can take care of herself.  Furthermore, women occupy an important and central role in this vampire society-clearly the author's been reading some of our complaints about Feehan's work.<br />In my opinion, there is definitely room for improvement.  This book wasn't as sensual as the Carpathian series, which surprises me from Sizemore.  There were a few teasers, some \\"close, but no cigar\\" moments.  A word to authors out there--you can only do that so many times before it gets annoying.  And what was the deal with Alec's tattoo?  What was the significance there?  And why were his drugs not working at first, but then miraculously worked in the end?<br />Having said all that, I will definitely pick up the next installment.  The preview included at the end of IBFY promises a lot more of that animalistic possessiveness we all love so much in these vampire romances.	2003-11-15
US	50421177	R2F3D0G28EADCC	0060092661	982289135	One Kiss From You: Switching Places #2 (Switching Places Series)	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Not Worth Buying	You know how some authors are on your \\"automatically buy\\" list?  Christina Dodd was on mine for years, until her historicals became covers of popular movies--the King and I, Sabrina, etc...  After her contemporary \\"Just The Way You Are\\", which I greatly enjoyed, I decided to give her historicals another chance.  Well, she's not getting back on my list with this one-I only read it a few days ago, and already I have trouble remembering what it was about.<br />Remington Knight, wealthy American, is driven by one thing-getting revenge on the Duke of Magnus.  He has backed the Duke into a corner with enormous gambling debts, and has demanded the Duke's daughter Madeline in marriage as repayment (this has been used soooooo many times before-aren't we past this trite nonsense, people?)<br />His daughter, fortunately, has a brain in her head and knows she's not going to go through with it.  Unfortunately for us readers, the story isn't about her but her cousin Eleanor, a bit of a limp noodle who for some reason agrees to take the heat and pretend to be Madeline with Remington.<br />That's about it.  There's a mystery; why is Remington so bent on revenge, and who's the real culprit?  There's shy Eleanor's development of some chutzpah (though not enough to take control of the situation, of course), and there's the frustration of the still-absent real Duchess.  And what will Remington do when he finds out his intended is not Madeline?<br />I didn't feel Eleanor and Remington made a good couple-he was extremely aggressive and hot-headed, and she was too quiet and nice to be a match for him.  To put it another way, instead of creating sparks they only created a little steam.  Likewise, the melodrama that makes a good historical romance was a little lacking; there were no great build-ups of emotion or really low moments.  The mystery was okay, not great but not too blatant either.  All in all, read it if you can check it out of your local library or if you can get it used, but don't buy brand new.<br />If you want to read Christina Dodd's best, go for keepers like \\"A Well Pleasured Lady\\" and \\"That Scandalous Evening\\".  Much better than the historical stuff she's writing now.	2003-11-15
US	50421177	R4ZVQSWIGPHX0	0515134872	124681815	Bad Moon Rising	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Too...	Too creepy, too rushed, too pat. Not enough romance, not enough development of the hero's relationship with others, and not enough exploration of the process of picking up the pieces of one's life after great loss and moving on. I am a big Katherine Sutcliffe fan (except for a couple of her books), and after Darkling I Listen, I was expecting great things from this one.  Maybe I expected too much.<br />J.D. Damascus lost his wife and their two children several years ago, when they were brutally murdered.  Although it's been a long time, he just can't seem to get himself past the devastation, and has gone from a prominent, on-the-rise attorney to bouts of depression, representing prostitutes and giving up on life in general.<br />Holly Jones is convinced something bad has happened to her best friend Melissa.  Trouble is, no one will believe her, or bother too much over a missing streetwalker.  But recent events in the seedier areas of the Quarter seem a little too familiar to J.D. Damascus, who agrees to help her look for her friend... and possibly trap a killer. <br />What worked in this book: <BR>1) the use of New Orleans was very well done as a backdrop. It wasn't too \\"every day is Mardi Gras and everyone says chere in every sentence\\" overdone, and yet the personality of the city did color the work.  It wasn't completely ignored after the first paragraph, as some authors are wont to do (I hate that).<br />2) Holly's past was very original in a romance novel, and I enjoyed the issues it raised as far as the dynamics of her relationship with J.D.<br />3) A rich cast of characters, so that the villain was not readily apparent (not to me, anyway).<br />Here are my problems with the story--The villain's crimes were just a little too graphic; I'm not squeamish, but there are certain mental images I DON'T want to have when I'm reading a romance novel.  Also, J.D. has a sister-in-law who's clearly in love with him, and he acknowledges that he knows this, without ever putting his foot down and setting some boundaries--why??? His brother and he have a highly antagonistic relationship, and we were never really told why.  Their father, who seemed to be the original impetus for some of their behavior, was completely absent as a character in the book.  Also, although Holly and JD are great people separately, after reading Bad Moon Rising I still don't know why they're together--I don't think they know, either.  Beyond the de rigueur sexual attraction, I think Holly was just happy not be alone, and JD was glad to have someone clean up his apartment, or something like that... Never mind that for the last several years he's been so overwrought with grief that he's barely able to function, he meets Holly and all of a sudden the loss is bearable!!!<br />Bottom line, there was too much focus on mystery, and too little on actual romance, a new trend in the genre that is beginning to worry me.<br />Before I buy a book, I usually check out what others have had to say about it.  This time I feel that all the positive reviews are apt to lead potential readers a little astray, so I thought I'd add my two cents.  If you want to read some of the best Katherine Sutcliffe has to offer, be sure to read My Only Love, Dream Fever and Devotion.	2003-06-12
US	50421177	R30PKL3PERDMKA	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Crazy About The Jerk	I was a big fan of Christina Dodd's in the days of Candle in the Window and A Well-Pleasured Lady.  But as far as I was concerned, her last good book was That Scandalous Evening, as all the books since have been cheap ripoffs of hit movies (The King and I, Sabrina, etc.).  But with her first contemporary, Dodd has reminded me why I loved her so much a decade ago.<br />Zack Givens has never known anything other than wealth and privilege.  At 35, he is used to getting what he wants, and to smiting whoever displeases him with his ubiquitous wrath.  No one stands up to the powerful billionaire, and accordingly he is as obnoxious and authoritarian as can be. One day, his new answering service rep mistakes him for his butler, and shares her very unflattering opinions of Mr. Givens with him.  Since he cannot fire her (a bet he made challenges him to go without firing anyone for a period of time), and since he finds a strange pleasure in not being catered to (for once) Zack comes to look forward to his daily talks with Hope.<br />Hope Prescott is living on the edge of poverty, determined to rise herself up out of penury and find her three siblings, who were suspiciously scattered to the four winds by the town fathers when they were children.  For someone who has found precious little good in this world, she still manages to be caring and empathic, and takes genuine interest in her callers' lives.  She enjoys in particular her conversations with Griswald, Mr. Givens' butler.  She imagines a stuffy, grey-haired old man, who once in a while needs to be reminded to consider other's feelings.  Little does she expect, when she stops by with some chicken soup, that the butler will turn out to be a magazine-cover-worthy hunk who looks at her the way a starving man looks at a buffet.  <br />The sensuality in this book is riveting, not gratuitous as in so many other books these days but compelling, with so much emotion weaved in that you couldn't help but fall for Zack, even knowingthat he can be an autocratic jerk.  <br />As I said before, this book reinstated my belief in Christina Dodd.  Hope is optimistic (forgive the play on words), but not sickeningly sweet as she could so easily have become. Zack's insufferable haughtiness rings true as a result of his upbringing and past experiences, and I loved his genuine perplexity at being found annoying by so many people. <BR> <BR>So why not 5 stars?  1) because of a completely unnecessary kidnap/rescue scene, and 2) there is one pivotal moment in the story where Zack has yet again been an infuriating jackass but, contrary to all the other times, he realizes his mistake almost immediately and admits whole-heartedly that he is in the wrong.  This just didn't ring true, not when Dodd had done such a thorough job acquainting us with Zack's point of view and the reasons for it.  It was too abrupt an about-face, and felt like the author wanted to hurry up and finish the book instead of taking more time to show a gradual change of Zack's attitude.<br />The unresolved mystery of what happened to Hope's family, as well as her continuing seach for her siblings, is a sure guarantee that there will be future additions to Hope and Zack's story.	2003-06-06
US	50421177	R2VX13AZ9IIA1U	1551669218	350335975	Prospect Street	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Romance Novel for Adults	And by that I mean that if you're looking for the standard bodice-ripper, this ain't it.  We all know how the average romance novel goes: guy meets girl, sexual attraction is immediate, but for some reason they can't admit their love until the end of the book.  And, these days, lots of sex scenes thrown in along the way.<br />Prospect Street adds a lot more turns to that simple path.  What it offers are situations that expertly mirror reality, and that force the reader to recall a truth we too often forget--things are seldom black and white.<br />Faith Bronson is a mother of two, happily married to her politician husband of fifteen years, David.  In one moment, their lives are blown apart.  Trying to start anew, Faith moves her son and daughter to an old family house in Georgetown, a house from which her baby sister was kidnapped decades ago.  As she slowly restores the century-old family home, Faith rediscovers her heritage and, in the process, herself.<br />Putting the pieces of her life back together is both frightening and liberating.  When all is said and done, who is the woman who will emerge?  Will that woman have room in her life for Pavel Quinn, a handsome and enigmatic neighbor?  And what DID happen to Faith's baby sister all those years ago?<br />We are introduced to a rich cast of characters: Faith and David's teenage daughter Remy, who hates their new life, their smart and sensitive young son Alex, Faith's distant mother Lydia, her politician father Joe and their shrewd old neighbor Dottie Lee.  What makes this novel a true delight is that every family member is shown from many angles. It is difficult to truly hate any of the characters involved in this tragedy, except for a couple of minor characters.  Faith's children are particularly compelling, as through them we are brought back to a time when everything in life was clear-cut, and to the painful first time we realized the people we loved could make mistakes.<br />Richards offers a fascinating reminder that every decision we make shapes the rest of our lives and that people, the world over, simply try to roll with the punches the best they can.  The central message is simple: no relationship can endure without truth, or forgiveness.  What a wonderful novel.	2003-03-14
US	50421177	R120CSKAL6XU90	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Somewhat of a Letdown...	We first met Nick Gentry in Lady Sophia's Lover.  He was a shady, mysterious, magnetic character--in other words, he showed so much promise as a hero that I COULDN'T WAIT for Kleypas to write his story.<br />In Worth Any Price, Nick Gentry is now working on the good guys' side as a Bow Street Runner, but his past is still shrouded in mystery.  Nick is asked to track down Charlotte Howard, a nobleman's runaway fiancee.  Nick finds her working at a large estate, and decides to observe her more closely under the guise of an aristocratic guest.  He soon finds that he cannot turn Lottie over to her repulsive fiance, and coerces her to marry him instead.  The crux of the story comes after the marriage, when virtual strangers must learn to trust and love each other, and Nick's secrets must finally be revealed if he is ever to move on with his life and be happy.<br />I have no complaints about Lottie. She was smart, strong and spunky--not at all that whining, throw-herself-headlong-into-trouble damsel in distress I hate so much.  She was strong enough to defy her family in an era when it was unheard of, and real enough to go back and try to reconcile with them once she'd married Nick.<br />Unfortunately, Worth Any Price is much more Nick's story than Lottie's, as every issue in the book seems to depend in some way on this one specific incident that occurred in his past.  Perhaps it's just me, but I thought Kleypas was setting Nick up to be a tortured hero type in the genre of Gabriel, from Gabriel's Woman (if you've read that book or its synopsis, then you know what I mean). He has gone years without being able to let anyone touch him, he isn't close to anyone emotionally and will not let himself fall in love with anyone...Really, the clues were all there.<br />In addition, although he is in reality a nobleman, no one knows this but his sister and brother-in-law (again, see Lady Sophia's Lover), and he has no intention of claiming the role--again, because of that incident in his past.<br />Given all this, when Nick's &quot;Big Secret&quot; was finally revealed, my reaction was: &quot;That's it???? This is the big traumatic event that has scarred him for life and prevented him from loving anyone?&quot;  I was so annoyed that I almost threw the book across the room.  Believe me, when you find out the Big Reason, it makes Nick seem as melodramatic as one of those latin soap operas.  Needless to say, he also loses all credibility as an Alpha hero.<br />With this flimsy excuse for pathos, the author would've done better to focus on Lottie's story; parents basically selling their daughters to vile noblemen in order to attain a higher standard of living would have been a much better central issue.<br />I have been with Lisa Kleypas since Midnight Angel, and will continue to glom all her new books.  This book is disappointing only because I had built up such expectations about Nick, and because, frankly, I expect more from Kleypas than from the average romance author.  Especially after works like Lady Sophia's Lover, Suddenly You and Where Dreams Begin.in his past.<br />Given all this, when Nick's &quot;Big Secret&quot; was finally revealed, my reaction was: &quot;That's it???? This is the big traumatic event that has scarred him for life and prevented him from loving anyone?&quot;  I was so annoyed that I almost threw the book across the room.  Believe me, when you find out the Big Reason, it makes Nick seem as melodramatic as one of those latin soap operas.  Needless to say, he also loses all credibility as an Alpha hero.  <br />With this flimsy excuse for pathos, the author would've done better to focus on Lottie's story; parents basically selling their daughters to vile noblemen in order to attain a higher standard of living would have been a much better central issue.<br />I have been with Lisa Kleypas since Midnight Angel, and will continue to glom all her new books.  This book is disappointing only because I had built up such expectations about Nick, and because, frankly, I expect more from Kleypas than from the average romance author.  Especially after works like Lady Sophia's Lover, Suddenly You and Where Dreams Begin.	2003-02-16
US	50421177	R3U65T66BT6D9W	0380793113	498510441	Only in My Dreams	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Let's Hear it for the Big Girls!!!	Merry, Baroness Winters, is an orphan who yearns for the one thing she has never had: a family of her own.  Unfortunately, her cold reception at her come-out years ago was a harsh reality check, and she knows no one will ever marry her.  She is content now to be the comic relief of the party, the one men come to for advice on other women, the socialite everyone calls Merry--for surely, Lorelei is a ludicrous name for such a large and \\"well-endowed\\" woman.<br />Adrian Rutland doesn't think so.  Viscount Dane, new to the ton and to the shores of England, spots her in the crowd.  He is immediately entralled with Lorelei, and doesn't understand society's opinion of her at all.  She is intelligent, witty, independent, and Adrian finds her beautiful.  Perplexingly, the more this immensely attractive man pursues her, the more Lorelei backs away.<br />Events lead to a marriage of convenience, but that alone will not surmount Lorelei's negative self-image or her deep fear of rejection.  And just as Adrian begins to make some headway, circumstances will force him to abandon his new wife, shattering her vulnerable heart all over again...<br />I thought this romance was a great hommage to large ladies everywhere.  I felt the pain and isolation Merry was hiding behind her self-deprecating persona, and I understood the strong instinct of self-preservation that made her reject Dane.  I loved Adrian for his patience in trying to get her to see herself as he did, and for nurturing her confidence.  I appreciated that Byron did not make Adrian perfect, either, but gave him a few foibles, which included a boyish desire to be seen as a swashbuckling manly hero by his lady even though he wears glasses and can be a little awkward.  The scene where he decides to dramatically sweep her up in his arms is hilarious...and realistic.<br />You will have to look for this book in used book stores or online, but it's worth it if you're looking for a heroine whose dimensions are more like the average woman's.	2003-01-27
US	50421177	R12PA140SIFFX1	0758203322	819663465	His Eternal Kiss: More Tales of Vampire Love	Books	1	18	20	N	N	Don't be fooled by the cover...	...because this is a regency compilation.  For those of you who don't know, that means no sexual tension, no terribly complex characters, and generally no consummation, shall we say, of the relationship except maybe for a kiss at the end.  I stopped reading regencies when I was sixteen, so I wasn't thrilled with this book.<br />Like its predecessor, Lords of the Night, His Eternal Kiss doesn't deliver on the promise of dark, sensual power most of us associate with vampires.  If you are expecting something along the lines of Anne Rice, Laurel Hamilton or Christine Feehan, you will be sorely disappointed.<br />However, those of you who enjoy regencies may well like this book.	2002-11-14
US	50421177	R2A6LZL39QVMPQ	1842152548	900305443	Baking: Over 200 Irresistible Home-Made Cakes, Pies, Muffins, Tarts, Buns, Bread and Cookies	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Don't Buy This Unless You Own &quot;Baking for Dummies&quot;...	Because there are clearly unspoken steps to these recipes that will thwart beginners' efforts.<br />I like to bake. I don't know HOW to bake, but I like it just the same.  So when I get in that culinary mood, I rely on a recipe to guide me through the process, start to finish.  When trying something new, I do no more or less than what is written down.<br />And there's the problem with this book.  I have already tried four of its recipes, and three of them were awful. The fourth, while edible, was nothing special.  So I am giving up and going back to Betty Crocker.	2002-09-30
US	50421177	R36604ZSF2G1Y9	0758200498	215764089	Lords Of The Night	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Don't Expect Any Hot Scenes	The key word in the previous two reviews is \\"Regency\\". You know what that means: no love-making, no sexual tension, maybe a kiss at the end if you're lucky. Unfortunately, this isn't written anywhere on the book so I didn't realize it until I was halfway through reading the stories. (Yes, as a 17-year veteran of romance novels I DID realize it was published by Zebra, but I was desperate and told myself maybe they were branching out). <br />Had I known it was a regency book I wouldn't have bothered to read it, let alone buy it.  For me, vampires are intense, hedonistic creatures and frankly, it never even occured to me that one could write a story completely circumventing that aspect of their personality.  Because who'd want to read it then, anyway????? <br />As far as I'm concerned, this book should have been titled \\"Tales of Vampire Dullness\\".  The guys in these three tales have none of that dark menacing power that makes vampires so attractive in romance novels.  Rather, they were so dandified and benign that I wonder why the authors bothered to label them vampires in the first place.<br />So, if knowing they're Regencies you still want to give them a try, you'll probably enjoy them.  But for those of us who are used to Dracula, Lestat and Mikhail Dubrinsky, this is definitely a wash.	2002-09-24
US	50421177	RLNE4M74NX06G	0373484828	29628380	Dangerous To Know	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Intrigue, adventure and romance	This is a compilation of two Silhouette Intimate Moments &quot;Code Name: Danger&quot; books, Undercover Man and Perfect Double.  Although series books don't usually hold up well through the years, the romance enthusiast should definitely read these.  The first two books of the collection, Night of the Jaguar and The Cowboy &amp; the Cossack, have been re-released as Dangerous to Hold.<br />Undercover Man<BR>Doc, the quiet genius of the group, is a whiz at making lists and planning for all eventualities. His ability to do so allows him to lead a double life as a world-renowned electronics expert and a spy for OMEGA, a top-secret agency. So he sees no trouble in traveling to Cannes with his partner Maggie, taking care of some OMEGA business, and flying his docile fiancee out for their wedding a couple of days after that. After all, he left her detailed instructions... <br />Little does he know that his simple and sweet Paige has thrown out all his lists, and is already on her way to Cannes to meet him. She still loves David, but just can't help feeling he's never quite himself with her, always holding some things back. She has decided to give him one more chance and, if they can't resolve this, she'll return his engagement ring. <br />Before she can meet him, however, she runs into a friendly American who takes her on a shopping spree that turns Paige from girl-next-door to slinky seductress. And that's when the trouble starts. What ensues is a case of mistaken identity, stolen technology, a mysterious buyer, a street-smart orphan and a high-priced callgirl. Oh, and Paige and David still have to have that talk... <br />This story is great. I give it 4 1/2 stars. In fact, the only reason I didn't think it rated five stars was because I read the next book in the series, PERFECT DOUBLE, before I read this one. Even in this work, there were times when I felt Maggie got dangerously close to stealing the show. So, I recommend that (unlike me) you read the books in order. <br />Perfect Double<BR>There is a plot to assassinate the current United States vice-president. Since said official happens to be a woman, the top-secret OMEGA agency decides to have Maggie Sinclair impersonate her. Maggie is an experienced field operative, equally comfortable in shootouts as she is under cover. However, since this is such a high-risk mission, the agency director is sending her backup. The widowed vice-president is about to acquire a new boyfriend in the person of Adam Ridgeway-who just happens to be Maggie's boss. <br />Sparks, which were already smoldering in the previous novels, now fully ignite as Maggie and Adam must convince the world they are falling in love. And in the midst of trying to prevent an assassination and uncover a killer, their staged intimate moments come dangerously close to reality. The sweet inscription inside the wedding band Maggie now wears makes her long for a love of her own. <br />Maggie is definitely the precursor to Sidney Bristow (TV's ALIAS); she's intelligent, she's courageous, and she's resourceful. Unlike in so many other books, her attraction to Adam doesn't suddenly erase all of that. Rather, the main relationship issue in the book is how difficult it would be for Adam and Maggie to be a couple, given their respective occupations. <br />It's hard to explain why this book is so touching without giving some things away. But trust me, there are definitely some &quot;Awwwwwwwww&quot; moments in there, even if you're a cynic like me. From the bustling political circles of DC to an isolated snow-covered mountain retreat, there are plenty of chases, suspects, and steamy scenes. Add to this quite a bit of humor, cameo appearances from other OMEGA operatives, an iguana and a huge shaggy dog, and this novel definitely spells &quot;keeper&quot;. <br />It is not necessary to read Dangerous to Hold to fully enjoy this book, although you probably won't be able to resist going back and reading it once you've finished this one.	2002-07-28
US	50421177	RU4BNZI92V3L6	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	An explosive ending to the trilogy	NOTE: It should be mentioned that if you find witchcraft offensive to your personal beliefs, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK. Don't say we didn't warn you. I notice that many people have recommended something more in line with Christian thinking.<br />If you haven't read Dance upon the Air, the basic premise to the trilogy is this: centuries ago, three witches created a new island off the coast of New England, where they hoped to live in peace. Unfortunately, each one was destroyed by a love gone wrong. It is now up to each of their descendants to once again face the test, and conquer it. If any one of them fails, legend has it the island will be swallowed by the sea. <br />The modern-day three sisters are Nell Channing, Ripley Todd and Mia Devlin.  Of the three, Mia is by far the most skilled and powerful.  However, that means that what comes at her will be the most powerful, as well.  But she has been preparing for this all her life, and is ready to protect those she loves...or die trying.<br />Long ago, Mia loved Sam Logan with all her heart.  She thought he felt the same, but then he left the island, and her.  Now he's back, and wants to reclaim what he once threw away.  Although she feels the old attraction, Mia won't give Sam a second chance at her heart--for she knows that it is the one thing that could destroy her.<br />Everything in this book is about revisiting former characters, instead of the usual getting to know new ones.  Although this is Mia and Sam's story, the others have not been dropped by the wayside (don't you hate it when that happens in series books?).  The story's tone makes it as easy to slip into as a well-worn shoe. The same goes for the long-absent Sam.  For a large part of the book he is definitely persona non grata on the island, and is put through many trials and tribulations, which I must say satisfies my bloodthirsty soul.  However, his dedication to Mia and dogged pursuit of her will slowly win everyone over.<br />Readers of the trilogy havebeen eagerly waiting for Mia's tale.  She has come close to stealing the show before, and great things were expected of her story.  For the most part she delivers, although I would have liked more detail as to the resolution of her feelings for Sam and how that impacted her final confrontation with evil.  Because of this and of the many typos and editorial errors in this book (just a little rushed, were we?), I give this four stars.<br />**In terms of appearance, who's the genius who decided on a pink spine???  Visually I found that quite jarring, since the other two books seem to have a very \\"nautical\\" theme.	2002-05-29
US	50421177	R1BMY2XAL3EBZX	0515114871	184251409	Wicked Games	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Intrigue in a small town	Wicked Games is on my list of top contemporaries of all time, and I can't believe more people haven't had something to say about this book.  It's well-written, complex, intense and sexy.<br />Ashlynn Monroe, of the \\"wrong-side-of-the-tracks\\" Monroes, is a single mother with two children.  Unlike most of her relatives, she has managed to overcome her family's dismal reputation and now works in the offices of Ethan Thorpe, the prominent and mysterious businessman.<br />Cord Way has returned home to help his brother Wyatt's campaign, and ends up stuck in an elevator with prim and proper Ashlynn Monroe.  He is intrigued, and begins to pursue her.  Ashlynn tries to avoid Cord, but before she knows it she and her daughters are spending more time with him than they should.  Ashlynn has many reasons to avoid Cord, not the least of which is the way he makes her feel.<br />Kendra, Ashlynn's high-school-age sister, has her own ideas about escaping the Monroe stigma.  She has decided that she wants out of Waysboro more than anything, and she has a plan for accomplishing this--they start by helping with the Way campaign.  Meanwhile, the turbulent Ethan Thorpe has his own reasons for keeping his eye on the campaign, and on Cord's sister.<br />I read this book about eight years ago, and I still remember it.  I re-read it every chance I get.  As in real life, several stories are intertwined here, and keep the reader on her toes. I was as enthralled with the secondary and tertiary story as I was with the main one. What will happen next?  Can a Monroe ever be openly involved with a Way?  What does Ethan Thorpe want?  What will Cord do when he realizes one of Ashlynn's children is his?  Will Kendra get out of town?<br />The only thing I regret is that not all of my questions were answered by the end of the book but, hey, maybe it's better that way.  In real life not everything is tied up neat and nice at the end, either.	2002-05-06
US	50421177	R3LGC59KU9VTGJ	1558176926	920379267	Whispers in Time	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Bogged down and complicated	Psychic Carol Marlowe has been having dreams, visions of a death in Louisiana.  Therefore, she is not surprised when NOPD Captain Frank Longpre contacts her for help.  Carol travels to New Orleans, never expecting that she would develop feelings for Frank, or that the mystery they would have to solve would be over a hundred years old...<br />I can't believe I'm complaining about this, but this book had TOO MUCH detail.  There were too many stories and issues floating about, and it made following the story a real challenge.  First of all, you're not only following the relationship between Frank and Carol, but also between Camille Mazaret and Victoine Navar.  Frank has a pregnant wife who disappeared 10 years ago, and to whom he's still faithful, Carol is a jilted lover, Cami's parents are dead and she is being pressured to marry one of the men who only want her for her money, and Black Vic has a mysterious past and a son he doesn't know.<br />Then we have a killer on the loose, time-travel, a buried pirate treasure, a couple of Charon-like (greek mythology) figures, Mardi Gras, the Quadroon Ball, and a child crying in the night.  Like I said, it's too much.  Keeping it all straight is almost a chore.<br />However, I will say that this book had many good points, not the least of which is the very real sense you get of New Orleans life, today and a hundred years ago.  There are a few cities around the world that have a life of their own (Paris, Venice, Rio, New Orleans, etc), and it is almost criminal to use them in a story without fully tapping into their energy.  I have a new appreciation for authors who incorporate those cities' personality into the story, since with others (i.e. Christine Feehan) we are told the name of the city and nothing else.  Ms. Weyrich has given her characters authentic-sounding names (it is sooooo disconcerting when the characters have american names and they are supposedly from another country/culture), and has interspersed her tale with many local customs and language.<br />Another thing I appreciated was that there was genuine affection between Frank and Carol, although some hurdles in their relationship were dealt away too easily. Carol and Cami are strong female characters, another plus, since I hate illogical, weak or whiny females.<br />I wouldn't recommend going out and buying this book, unless you're building a Weyrich collection, but it might be a good book to read on a rainy day.  A better treatment of this story and setting is Nora Roberts' Midnight Bayou, although that leaves a little to be desired as well.	2002-05-03
US	50421177	R2CVJTNYHHFU3G	1551666243	14896111	Man With A Past	Books	1	15	16	N	N	Dated...	When a person has been reading romances for a while, it becomes easy for her to tell approximately when a book has been written--early eighties, late eighties, early nineties, etc...  Each era has its own particular \\"tells\\" along the path of female empowerment and sexual liberation.  In spite of the fact that we are led to believe the heroine here is not a virgin, this book is definitely early eighties, and clearly should have been left there.<br />If you haven't figured it out already, anything with the MIRA star logo on it was probably originally published a while ago.  MIRA has taken to re-issuing early works by such popular authors as Stephanie Laurens, Linda Howard and Jayne Ann Krentz.  Although these authors produce wonderful work today, their first novels weren't necessarily as stellar.  These books are definitely dated, and exemplify what publishers thought women wanted to read at the time.  Most readers will react with a resounding \\"YUCK!!!\\" if they come across these stories today (Linda Howard's All That Glitters is a fine example of this).  <br />Here, Kelsey Murdock is no dewy-eyed ingenue, but a 28 year-old independent woman.  Nonetheless, Cole Stockton expects her to give up her job so he can support her, because he can't stand her not being there when he calls to check up on her.  This is typical of early eighties romances, where the formula is that the man completely takes over the woman's life and, apart from shedding a few tears, she inexplicably and illogically decides she has no other choice but to go along with it.  All's well that ends well when she finally realizes she's in love with him.  The hero decides toward the end of the novel that he would like to keep the heroine, and that's the end of that.<br />In Man With A Past, Cole doesn't want to tell Kelsey anything about his past, or talk about the future.  When she sees that this relationship can go nowhere and tries to break up with him, he forces her to have sex with him in a frighteningly pre-political correctness kind of way.  Of course, after this Kelsey doesn't cut off his privates or even report him to the local authorities, as one would today.  Moreover, she doesn't even get a temporary restraining order when he calls her afterwards and says things like \\"I made you mine, and there's no going back to a time when you didn't belong to me.\\"  In 2002, that's not sexy, just creepy.<br />Kelsey avoids Cole until she goes on vacation.  She takes a cruise, during which she is supposed to deliver an attache case to a reclusive co-worker.   While she is suffering a bout of sea-sickness, Cole decides to steal the highly confidential material she is carrying, and expects Kelsey not to question his actions and trust him blindly.  She gets understandably indignant, but then doesn't follow through like a logical person and call the ship authorities.  Instead she sticks around for more of his high-handedness, even when he says things like \\"Nothing stands between us but your stubborn female curiosity and arrogance.\\" There is no way a premise like that would fly today.  In 2002, the hero's interfering with--and essentially taking over-- the heroine's job could only be called boneheaded; him for doing it, and her for allowing him to get away with it.<br />In accordance with the standard formula, toward the end of the book Cole decides to change the rules of the relationship with no explanation to Kelsey: \\"Once inside the walls, you can't get back out...I could never let you go free.\\"  Kelsey falls in love with this overbearing neanderthal in spite of everything, and without him having to change his demeaning ways an iota or apologize even once.  She admits she loves him, and only then does he deign to tell her very briefly about his past.  The whole thing nicely sets the stage for the beginnings of a singularly abusive marriage. <br />Bottom line, this book is extremely condescending and border-line frightening.  But maybe it could be used in a compare/contrast exercise in women's studies classes...	2002-04-18
US	50421177	R6FTTW98HIJQ8	067086966X	979597965	American Heritage History of the United States	Books	5	70	73	N	N	Okay, Here's the Deal...	Judging from previous reviews, apparently if you're a US history afficionado you should stay away from this book.<br />However, if like me you've always fallen asleep in history class, this is the book for you.  Don't get me wrong; history is my hobby--WORLD history, that is.  With US history, it seems I've had the great misfortune of having professors who loved to dwell on minutia.  And since minutia is tremendously dreary when the student doesn't first have the overall picture, it is no wonder many of us find ourselves &quot;otherwise engaged&quot; in class.<br />I am an American adult who decided it was time to know more about our nation's past, and chose a one-volume work to get me started. I found Douglas Brinkley easy to read, in spite of the fact that his book is larger and weighs more than a small household pet.  I've always deduced that because America is so much younger than old world countries, instructors have felt a need to compensate for its history's brevity by weighing it down with innumerable bits of information that are probably better left to the next course level. But I did not feel that way reading Brinkley.  More than once, I found myself muttering &quot;so that's what that was about...&quot;.  The conversational writing style and supporting illustrations made for, if not exactly a page-turner, the closest thing a history book can get to that.  <br />Although it is obvious from page one that the author has very strong beliefs, they are so blatant that I did not feel it was a hindrance--any reasonable adult will question whether the characters and events were truly as noble or ominous as the writer has painted them, and readers should certainly never make judgments based on one book alone anyway.  This work is really just to have an overview of US history, and people can decide from there what they'd like to learn more about.  To include all the details other reviewers felt should have been in this book would have made it the size of the Encyclopedia Britannica.<br />Just one more thing--who the heck IS Emma Goldman?????  ;-)	2002-04-10
US	50421177	R2HN8AG27VYRVB	037307669X	869055097	Undercover Man  (Code Name: Danger) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Lots of suspense, love and laughs	This is the next to last installment of the &quot;Code Name:Danger&quot; series.<br />Doc, the quiet genius of the group, is a whiz at making lists and planning for all eventualities.  His ability to do so allows him to lead a double life as a world-renowned electronics expert and a spy for OMEGA, a top-secret agency.  So he sees no trouble in traveling to Cannes with his partner Maggie, taking care of some OMEGA business, and flying his docile fiancee out for their wedding a couple of days after that.  After all, he left her detailed instructions...<br />Little does he know that his simple and sweet Paige has thrown out all his lists, and is already on her way to Cannes to meet him.  She still loves David, but just can't help feeling he's never quite himself with her, always holding some things back. She has decided to give him one more chance and, if they can't resolve this, she'll return his engagement ring. <br />Before she can meet him, however, she runs into a friendly American who takes her on a shopping spree that turns Paige from girl-next-door to slinky seductress.  And that's when the trouble starts.  What ensues is a case of mistaken identity,  stolen technology, a mysterious buyer, a street-smart orphan and a high-priced callgirl.  Oh, and Paige and David still have to have that talk...<br />This book is great.  I would have given it 4 1/2 stars if I could.  In fact, the only reason I didn't think it rated five stars was because I read the next book in the series, PERFECT DOUBLE, before I read this one.  Even in this work, there were times when I felt Maggie got dangerously close to stealing the show.  So, I recommend that (unlike me) you read the books in order.	2002-04-07
US	50421177	R11ZJ68PUSRHZX	0373484682	278104375	Dangerous To Hold	Books	5	7	7	N	N	"Code Name: Danger" Series	This series was originally published by Silhouette Intimate Moments.  It concerns a top-secret American spy agency called OMEGA.  Each installment takes the team on a different high-intensity mission somewhere on the globe, and in each one an operative finds true love.<br />Merline Lovelace does a fantastic job balancing spy action and romance.  I'll pick up anything with her name on it.  Dangerous to Hold and Dangerous to Know are re-released compilations of her previous books (although they still work, unlike so many dated MIRA books).<br />Since some descriptions of this novel have already been written, I'll just add that the next compilation will include UNDERCOVER MAN (Doc's story) and PERFECT DOUBLE (Maggie and Adam's story).  Trust me, you DO NOT want to miss that!!!!  You can check out those books' reviews if you just can't wait till June for some hints.	2002-04-07
US	50421177	R2O3CBJWD3BHRL	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Smart and Sexy	So far, all we've read about are the Cynster men, the devilish rascals known as the Bar Cynster.  Finally, we get to see what their women are like...<br />Well, they're deserving of the Cynster name, that's for sure.  They're beautiful, extremely intelligent, and determined to only marry for love.  Only problem is, with six former rogues watching their every move, they're not meeting the sort of men they're looking for-men just like their cousins used to be.  Now, at twenty-three, Amelia and Amanda have decided to take matters into their own hands.<br />Amanda chooses to frequent the less-than-reputable haunts the Cynster men preferred in their hell-raiser days.  On her first foray out she's \\"rescued\\" by Martin Fulbridge, Earl of Dexter, and decides he might be the one she's been looking for.  Right away, she knows it will take a great deal of patience and all her wit if she wants to tame this particular lion.  But she can play the game, and she's determined to win it.<br />Accused ten years ago of a crime he didn't commit, Martin shuns the ton in favor of the demi-monde.  However, his gargantuan protective streak makes him honor-bound to ensure that Miss Cynster doesn't land herself into any more scandals; grudgingly, he accepts that the best way to do this is to accompany her himself.  Although it gets increasingly difficult each time they meet, Martin resists Amanda's charms-especially since he suspects she may be after more than a simple flirt.  They have agreed to a certain number of outings, after which she is to return to the safe haven of the ton and he will wash his hands of her completely.  Unfortunately, with Amanda, Martin is seldom in control of the situation.<br />It was a pleasure to get to know Amanda, although she belongs more in the 21st century than the 19th.  She is seductive, resolute and self-possessed.  Unlike so many heroines in historicals today, she is never brainless or silly or melodramatic, neither unrealistic or a spoiled brat.  She isa master of the social scene, and can run rings around just about anyone.  And Martin isn't bad either.  Together they create passages so sensual that they will leave you panting.<br />There isn't much to the murder-mystery thrown in, but the appearance of characters like Lady Osbaldestone, the familiar old martinet, and impossible-to-shake Percival Lytton-Smythe, fiance in his own mind, more than make up for the paper-thin whodunit.<br />ON A WILD NIGHT is also peppered with subtle hints about Amelia's pursuits, and leaves the reader little doubt as to her unsuspecting quarry.  By the way, many who know her say that Amelia is just like Amanda, except quieter...and more stubborn.	2002-04-06
US	50421177	R2HMNODYOGK3CO	0425183971	731144234	Reunion in Death	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Black Widow goes Berserk	Once she seduced men, married them and then killed them.  That is, until her fun got interrupted by a ten-year sentence.  Now she's out on parole, and she wants revenge.  She doesn't blame the lowly men who were involved in her capture, for she knows they never could have done it without a woman.  And that woman is Eve Dallas.<br />This 14th installment of the \\"In Death\\" series continues to live up to J.D. Robb standards; as usual it is rich in detail, and provides a good balance of suspense, humor and romance.  Detective Eve Dallas, named for the city in which she was found as a child, continues to be as cuddly as a Brillo pad.  Her husband Roarke remains obscenely rich, powerful, and more beautiful than anyone has a right to be.  Robb manages to keep their relationship fascinating for the fourteenth time, along with giving Peabody her own case and finally giving us more insight into Eve's past.  All this, and two women who beat the living daylights out of each other, too.  Almost perfect.<br />The reason I gave this four stars instead of five is because I felt there were some loose threads in the story.  1) Okay, I get it, the villainess is EVEEEEEEEEEL, but why is she like that?  Would've been nice to know.  2) We get to meet Peabody's parents, which I'm not saying isn't nice, but I'm not sure what they were doing in this particular story.  There was this whole thing about a gift for Eve, and Peabody's reaction to it...I didn't get the point.  3) Roarke is starting to sound like a cheesy romance novel every time he opens his mouth.  My advice is tone down the \\"you are my everything\\" speeches, and give him a few flaws.  Could there maybe be ONE THING that he isn't good at????  Having been suspended for the last thirteen books, my disbelief is beginning to wear thin. <br />All the expected characters are back, along with many from previous books and an unprecedented amount of new ones.  In addition to that dizzying array, there are more plot lines floating around than ever before, which is probably why the above issues were not properly addressed.  I also want to caution readers that Eve and Roarke's first anniversary is not the focal point the editorial review makes it out to be .  All this notwithstanding, I still stayed up all night reading this book, and was glad I did.	2002-03-09
US	50421177	R2EDIAPCDHZ7GU	0373076924	835227552	Perfect Double (Code Name: Danger) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	So Touching	This is the last in the \\"Code Name: Danger\\" series.<br />There is a plot to assassinate the current United States vice-president. Since said official happens to be a woman, the top-secret OMEGA agency decides to have Maggie Sinclair impersonate her. Maggie is an experienced field operative, equally comfortable in shootouts as she is under cover. However, since this is such a high-risk mission, the agency director is sending her backup. The widowed vice-president is about to acquire a new boyfriend in the person of Adam Ridgeway-who just happens to be Maggie's boss.<br />Sparks, which were already smoldering in the previous novels, now fully ignite as Maggie and Adam feign a courtship which must convince everyone that theirs is a normal romance. So while trying to prevent an assassination and uncover a killer, their staged intimate moments come dangerously close to reality. The sweet inscription inside the wedding band Maggie now wears makes her long for a love of her own. <br />Maggie is definitely the precursor to Sidney Bristow (TV's ALIAS); she's intelligent, she's courageous, and she's resourceful. Unlike in so many other books, her attraction to Adam doesn't suddenly erase all of that. Rather, the main relationship issue in the book is how difficult it would be for Adam and Maggie to be a couple, given their respective occupations.<br />It's hard to explain why this book is so touching without giving some things away. But trust me, there are definitely some \\"Awwwwwwwww\\" moments in there, even if you're a cynic like me. From the bustling political circles of DC to an isolated snow-covered mountain retreat, there are plenty of chases, suspects, and steamy scenes. Add to this quite a bit of humor, cameo appearances from other OMEGA operatives, an iguana and a huge shaggy dog, and this novel definitely spells \\"keeper\\".<br />It is not necessary to read the previous installments of \\"Code Name: Danger\\" to fully enjoy this book, although you probably won't be able to resist going back and reading them all once you've finished this one.	2002-02-21
US	50421177	R1CVHJE9GGPC1J	044021579X	937966210	The Ground She Walks Upon	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Melodrama Galore	Nobleman Niall Trevallyan is summoned in the middle of a stormy night and told by the county council that he has a geis (pronounced &quot;GAYSH&quot;); if he does not follow it, tragedy will ensue.  Not only is Niall eminently sceptical of all Irish lore and superstition, his intended bride is also a baby barely a few days old.<br />He discards the whole idea and proceeds with his life.  As you would expect, things do not turn out well, and Trevallyan becomes harder and lonelier as the years go by.  Finally unable to stand the living reminder of the geis nonsense, he sends a young Ravenna to a London boarding school.<br />She returns to Lir a beautiful young woman, harboring resentment toward Niall for sending her away from everything she knew.  She is articulate and strong, but isolated from everyone because of the circumstances of her birth.  <br />As you can predict, Niall is strongly attracted to the older Ravenna.  More than that, he becomes obsessed with keeping her his own.  He seeks to keep her in his bed and in his castle, while Ravenna predictably rejects this presumptuous high-handedness.  She wants nothing to do with Lord Trevallyan, who treats her like a servant and simply uses her body--unfortunately, he can pretty much do as he wishes, since she has no family to protect her.  The more he bends her to his will, the more she loathes him.<br />More than just two lovers are at stake, though; the land and all its inhabitants will be affected by their relationship. But if ruin is to be avoided, the last and most important part of the geis must be fulfilled--Niall must get Ravenna to fall in love with him.<br />Add to this conflict Ravenna's search for her father, another story within the story, and the backdrop of Irish Home Rule unrest, and this is definitely a story worth reading.  The first few chapters have a wonderful &quot;midnight-on-Halloween&quot; sort of feel to them.  But be forewarned--melodrama fairly oozes out of this book, and logic is sometimes sacrificed to it.  The emotional ups and downs are nonstop, right up until the end.<br />If you happen to be a drama queen (and I am a bit of one myself), you'll love this book.  If you're not, you may want to check it out at your local library.	2002-02-11
US	50421177	R32ON04GLFHDCE	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	3	24	33	N	N	No Real Passion	And by that I mean no real passion between the hero and heroine, although there are plenty of sex scenes, and passion seems to exist between Gabriel and Michael.<br />Gabriel, who we first met in The Lover, now gets his own story. Like Michael, he is a former male prostitute. He now owns the House of Gabriel, and is constantly on his guard, awaiting \\"the second man\\"--trust me, you don't get much more insight than that until the last chapter. Gabriel's \\"love\\" interest is Victoria, a destitute young woman who decides to lose her virginity to the renowned prostitute. Just a couple of hitches--Gabriel does not allow ANYONE to touch him and, even if he did, did Victoria get sent to him by his nemesis?<BR> <BR>I have read all of Ms. Schone's books, and aside from The Lady's Tutor (which belongs on EVERYONE's top ten list), each one has progessively gotten darker and more clinical than the last. Although I rushed out and bought The Lover in its first week, I did not write a review for it because to this day I cannot decide if I like it or hate it. What originally attracted me to her work was that the heroine was an older, more assertive character. She was average-looking, and no ingenue. In other words, she was unlike 95% of all female romance characters, and a refreshing change.<br />Since that first book however, Schone's heroines have mostly been virgins, and instead of dealing with and conquering their personal issues, they tend to just get sucked into the hero's pathos. In this book, for instance, Victoria needs to lose her virginity in order to avoid unwanted attentions; and although she is a gentlewoman, she has to work for a living because she has been cast out by her father. But almost immediately upon meeting Gabriel, all her issues get put on the back burner, and she decides that she must make it her mission in life to seduce him and help him deal with his emotional baggage. For most of the book, she is just an outlet for Gabriel's hurt and a tool to be used against him. What happened to the mature, complex women, Robin????<br />As I read Gabriel's Woman, the words \\"cold\\" and \\"clinical\\" came to mind often and, judging from the reviews here, I was not alone. Graphic sex scenes abound, and avid fans of authors like Thea Devine or Susan Johnson will love Schone's books. For those of us who prefer more plot development and sex scenes that reflect the characters' passion for one another, it is better to check this book out from the local library. The sex scenes are mainly used as a catharsis for Gabriel, and are calculated and mechanical instead of passionate and spontaneous. What is also a turn off, as some other reviewers have mentioned, is that many of the encounters seem to be uncomfortable or downright painful for Victoria. In most of them, her achieving sexual pleasure seems implausible as well as an afterthought.<br />In addition, Schone has adopted the style of giving the reader esoteric glimpses into the hero's conflict with the villain, and of not actually spelling it out until the end. While this is an interesting and ingenious concept, the passages are written in such a cryptic manner that they only make one feel left out, since the heroine and the reader are the only ones who don't know what is going on. I spent so much time trying to decipher Gabriel's past and defining different characters' roles in it that I continuously got pulled out of the story, which is never a good thing.<br />Usually when I look back on a romance novel, I can pinpoint the exact moment when each character fell in love with the other. I could not do so here; these two characters seem to be together because they have no other options, and although there is compassion, I could not really detect any love or need between Gabriel and Victoria.	2002-01-31
US	50421177	R2GKJ8OTP5VQJH	0373834985	647650262	A Comfortable Wife	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Cliched and Uninspiring	This book is perfect for dewy-eyed young girls who have very little experience with romance novels... and with life.  Everyone else, don't waste the money.<br />Antonia (I cannot read that name without thinking of Willa Cather) is the perfect heroine: she's thin and beautiful, floats rather than walks, and small woodland creatures come calling every morning at the sound of her voice  ;-).  And yet, if you can bring yourself to believe it, she has gone so far unnoticed by the male half of the population.  She decides to get married, although she has sworn never to fall in love because as a child she witnessed the effect love had on her mother.  She also has the bridegroom all picked out.<br />Enter Philip, her aunt's stepson.  As in every other cliche, he's a titled lord, most wonderfully handsome, and bloated with his own superiority.  Of course,  he's immediately taken with Antonia's heretofore unobserved charms.  He capitulates surprisingly quickly and agrees to marry her.  She, however, wants to keep their engagement quiet until after she has made her entree into London society--I won't explain the why, as it really makes no rational sense.<br />The cookie-cutter elements just keep on coming.  From the heroine stumbling right into the hero's arms, to the hordes of marriage-minded girls pursuing him, to all the coincidental meetings, this book plods along through a seemingly unending amount of pages.  There is nothing here to make an emotionally mature, experienced person identify or sympathize with either of the two leading characters.  The story often takes turns into inconsequential details, and there are no buildups of tension or emotion.<br />This story seems like a regency novel (i.e. no sex, no very complex characters, for those of you who don't know) that the author has slightly reworked and remarketed.  Still, because it is Stephanie Laurens, and because you may learn several new vocabulary words reading this book, I gave it two stars.  DO READ the author's steamy ALL ABOUT PASSION, which is phenomenal and in my opinion one of the best romance books of 2001.  Laurens is to be commended for having improved her work so tremendously in the space of three years.	2002-01-02
US	50421177	R2NDNTNHGVP5RM	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	She's Back!!!	This was sooooo good. I feel I have to emphasize this because I've been reading Nora since she first started writing, and I had begun to fear that she had lost it. In the last decade or so, her stories just haven't been as heart-wrenching or enthralling as they used to be. Also, I was frankly reticent because I have never read one of Nora's trilogies where all the books were up to par. I know that nowadays writers are somewhat forced to create series, what with the publishers' new trend toward three-book deals, but in my experience there is always as least one dud in the lot. But this...It's so good. <br />NOTE: It should also be mentioned that if you find witchcraft offensive to your personal beliefs, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK. Don't say I didn't warn you.<br />If you haven't read Dance upon the Air, the basic premise to the trilogy is this: centuries ago, three witches created a new island off the coast of New England, where they hoped to live in peace. Unfortunately, each one was destroyed by a love gone wrong. It is now up to each of their descendants to once again face the test, and conquer it. If any one of them fails, legend has it the island will be swallowed by the sea. <br />MacAllister Booke is working on his Ph.D. thesis, researching the rumors of paranormal events on Three Sisters Island. Almost from the getgo, Mac realizes that sheriff's deputy Ripley Todd can contribute quite a bit to his study. But, as the saying goes, be careful what you wish for.<br />Ripley is a tough-as-nails, antithesis-of-a-lady character (sound familiar, J.D. Robb fans?). She wants nothing to do with witchcraft, although she is attracted to the goofy newcomer. She has inherited the craft, but has also kept a tight leash on her powers, hoping to ignore them into oblivion. However, all the recent prodding, baiting and questioning are creating some cracks in the dam. Before all is said and done, Ripley will have a choice to make. But will that choice protect those she loves, or destroy them all?<br />Ripley is an electric character, bursting at the seams with emotions and conflict. She would be over the top, if Nora hadn't taken the time to make readers understand why she is the way she is, and also to provide her with Mac. Such a wonderful, and different, hero. He is not the typical, muscle-bound dominating guy, but the incessant workings of his mind and quiet confidence are just as seductive. He is as realistic as the guy next door. Okay, if next door is a campus.<br />In true scientist form, his preoccupation with his research makes him a little awkward, constantly misplacing odds and ends, and makes his reactions unpredictable. He completely won me over. I found it charming that he was distracted at the oddest moments by a new theory or a new discovery. His calm, analytical nature is a perfect foil for Ripley's explosiveness, countering conflict with cool, no-nonsense wit. <br />It looks like the final book, Face the Fire, may also be a winner. Heaven and Earth is peppered with little insights into Mia and Sam's past, and nicely sets the stage for their reunion. The preview at the end of the book made me eager to read the rest.	2001-11-30
US	50421177	R37LZM56LQFJ8M	0821768433	538094232	Christmas Angel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute but not sexy	Leander Knollis needs a wife.  The catch--she can't be inclined to fall in love with him, which rules out just about every woman he meets.  Friends suggest the Weeping Widow, whom everyone knows loved her dear departed spouse most desperately, and does to this day.  <br />Judith Rossiter needs money; since her deceased poet left them nothing but volumes of his works, she and her two children are a step away from the poorhouse. A man proposing to her while she is visiting her husband's grave sounds a little too far-fetched to be true, but she doesn't have much of a choice.<br />Why does Leander need to marry?  Could it have something to do with a series of seemingly unconnected accidents?  And if so, who is the villain?  <br />As is typical of the author, the storyline and dialogues are light and intelligent rather than trite or hackneyed. It definitely is not a bad read, although I would not label it a page-turner or a must have.  I gave this book four stars because of the lack of passion between the two characters; they seldom &quot;get together&quot;, and although sexual tension can often compensate for the lack, this story doesn't have much of that either.<br />Jo Beverly readers will also be happy to see some previously introduced members of the Company of Rogues.  However, for my money, Devilish is her best book so far.  More intense, and definitely more sensual.	2001-11-09
US	50421177	R2DKC91QETE2IY	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Cruelly Disappointed	I have been with Ms. Feehan since the first Carpathian book hit the shelves. The series is about a species of males, Carpathians, who are essentially immortal, and who eventually turn into soulless vampires if they do not find their mate.  Once they find her, they can once again see colors and feel emotions.<br />As other reviewers have stated, there are many factors in the last couple of books that weaken the plots.  For one, these Carpathians have just discovered, after centuries of wandering, that they are not the only ones of their kind in the world.  Yet they do not seem to be in much of a hurry to meet the others (including their prince and their brother), or even ask any questions about their people.  For another, a long-standing question of mine has been this: if the Carpathians now know that certain mortal women can be their lifemates, wouldn't common sense demand that they start frequenting places of high concentration of these women, like associations, research institutes, etc?  Also, readers have been told for the last six books that female Carpathians are rare, but we have been given no further reason for it, or any indication that anything is being done about it.  Where is this species' instinct of self-preservation?<br />The heroines in the first few books were strong, valiantly trying to cope with nightmarish events, while holding on to their personal beliefs. They were not easily intimidated or controlled by their lifemates; there was a lot of &quot;look, bucko, just because you're incredibly powerful doesn't mean we do things your way all the time!&quot;. The latter heroines have been milksops, incessantly whining about the males' authoritarianism without ever doing anything about it. Lately, Ms. Feehan's books have all had the same plot: (Man) &quot;You are my lifemate, do as I say!&quot; (Woman) &quot;No, I won't, I won't!&quot; Picture a foot stomping here, and you'll have the whole idea. Instead of a man-woman relationship, it has become a parent-prepubescent one.<br />These ladies are also unbelievably ineffective at defending themselves, or having a say in the course of events. I am generally attracted to strong female characters, whose love for the hero does not obliterate their ability to think for themselves, or the pursuit of their own goals. <br />I keep buying the new installments, hoping against hope for a return to the heroine who can hold her own against the hero, and I get disappointed every time. Don't be like me. Read Dark Prince, Dark Desire, and Dark Magic. That's it, stop there.	2001-10-23
US	50421177	R38N9TUPJ584SK	0515110744	433335924	My Only Love	Books	5	19	21	N	N	If you can find it...Grab it!!!!	Like one of the previous reviewers said, this is one of my favorite books of all time.  If you like strong characters and storylines built on something more substantial than misunderstandings, you'll love this book.  I bought it when it first came out all those years ago, and the memory is still vivid.  I never get tired of reading it.<br />Miles Kemball is Damien's (Fire in the Heart) illegitimate brother.  He's in dire financial straits, a situation which could be alleviated if he agrees to marry Olivia. He's never met the woman, but he's heard of her.  She is said to sport a tattoo and worse, to be promiscuous. When he finally does meet her, he realizes Olivia is plain, wears glasses, and has a smart mouth, to boot.  But no one else will marry him since he's a ..., so he has no choice. Just what he always gets--the bottom of the barrel.<br />Miles Kemball is a reprobate. However, in order to give her child a father, or at least his own home, Olivia will marry Miles.  She knows he's only agreeing to it because of her dowry, but she has her own ace up her sleeve--she will keep control of the money.  <br />You know this isn't going to go over well with Alpha-Male Miles. And so begins the tug of war between these two titans, during which they must also deal with Olivia's relatives, a comically mismanaged household, a starving copper mining community ...and more than one reminder of Miles' past.<br />There is a depth to these two main characters that is a rare find.  Unlike most romance novels, there is a definite logic to their actions and reactions.  Although they are some of the strongest people I've ever read, as the book progresses their motivations and vulnerabilites are revealed, and it only makes you love them more.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll get turned on, you'll wish you were there...Look for the short literary quote at the beginning of each chapter--it gives a hint of the developments to come.	2001-10-23
US	50421177	R2F601JD25ED0F	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Three In a Row	Boy, Ms. Feehan just keeps us hooked!!!<br />In this third installment of the Carpathian series, Ms. Feehan introduces us to Aidan, one of a pair of twins who are also &quot;ancients&quot;.<br />Tremendously powerful, Aidan has chosen to live in San Francisco to hunt the vampires there. He also has a &quot;family&quot;, humans who have come with him from Carpathia and lived with him for generations.<br />Alexandria Houton is living on a shoestring--she's a computer design artist who's got no job, no money, and a six-year-old brother to care for.  Just when it looks like her luck might be changing, she witnesses several murders by a deranged, bloodthirsty creature.  To make matters worse, he seems to have taken a fancy to her, and carries her off to some cavern where he makes her drink his blood.<br />Enter Aidan, who mistakes her at first for a vampiress and drains her blood.  When he realizes his mistake, it is too late; he has already brought Alex over, and realizes she is his lifemate.<br />All of a sudden, nothing in Alex's life is the same; she's living with strangers in a strange house, can't be out in the sun, and can't eat anything.  For a person used to being in charge of her life, the loss of control is terrifying.  Alex is attracted to Aidan, but desperately wants her old life back.  Can there be a compromise?<br />Dark Gold has a much lighter feel to it than its two darker, more primal predecessors. This book has got more of a comedic element, due in part to Aidan's reaction to Alex's persistence in continuing to date.<br />If you haven't yet read Dark Prince and Dark Desire, you don't know what you're missing.  For those who have been following the Carpathian series, you will be happy to know that more info is provided in this book about Gregori and his lifemate, and that his book is the next one to come out, in July.	2000-04-14
US	50421177	R3JWFF1EQD95DQ	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Very &quot;The King &amp; I&quot;	In Ms. Dodd's latest work we meet Charlotte, a governess who is hired by Adorna--the incredibly beautiful &quot;airhead&quot; from &quot;That Scandalous Evening&quot;.  Charlotte is to teach Adorna's two  grandchildren, who have grown up in Arabia; what she doesn't know is that  she also needs to instruct Wynter, their father, on the intricacies of  British etiquette.<br />If you have seen &quot;The King &amp; I&quot;, you'll  have a pretty good idea of how their interplay is going to go.  Wynter is  very Yul Brenner, right down to the hands-on-his-hips stance.  On the other  side is Charlotte, who tries to remain at all times the picture of British  gentility when what she'd really like to do sometimes is hit him upside the  head with a frying pan.  Sparks fly when Wynter gets it into his head that  Charlotte would make a convenient wife.<br />The sparring between these two  characters is entertaining, at times what we all wished had happened  betweeen Deborah Kerr and the King of Siam.  Unlike their counterparts in  so many other works, the children's antics here ring true and are hilarious  enough to endear them to readers.  However, after having so enjoyed Adorna  in the previous novel, I wished we could have seen more of her &quot;I'll  pretend I'm stupid to get what I want&quot; act.<br />I love Christina Dodd  stories, and was especially awaiting this one.  What I usually appreciate  about Ms. Dodd are her strong, no-nonsense heroines.  This book left me a  little disappointed in the last couple of chapters, in that I really didn't  understand what Charlotte wanted or how it could be resolved.  All in all,  I thought Jane Higgenbothem (from Scandalous) was a stronger character.   However, this book is clearly the first of a trilogy, and I'm awaiting the  stories of Charlotte's two partners in the governess business.	2000-03-13
US	50421177	R2PXT1B8LXNH2C	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Very Poirot	How does a romance author keep a relationship interesting after all the initial conflicts are resolved?  Read J.D. Robb and find out.  She's been keeping us in thrall of Eve and Roarke's story for eleven books.<br />In this  latest installment of the &quot;In Death&quot; series, it is obvious that  Ms. Robb is paying homage to Dame Agatha Christie.  She does a wonderful  job at it, and the story is a balance of suspense and emotional  exploration.<br />As Roarke and Eve attend a play on one of her rare days off,  one of the actors is stabbed onstage--and is really dead.  Who did it?  As  Eve investigates, it turns out that everyone had a reason to hate the  victim, who was a most despicable character.  But don't think this is just  a murder mystery; we also get a healthy dose of romance and emotional  issues as Eve and Roarke continue to grapple with intimacy, an unfamiliar  place for both of these strong self-reliant individuals.<br />For those of you  who have read the previous books in the series, I will add that we see more  development in the love/hate relationship between Peabody and McNab, and a  return of Officer Trueheart (see Conspiracy in Death).  I think we haven't  seen the last of him.<br />For those of you for whom this will be a first  endeavor, I strongly recommend that you read all the previous books in the  series.  You will appreciate the continuity of secondary characters, and  get a much richer sense of where the actions/reactions in this book are  coming from.  From a literary perspective, it is admirable (as well as  unparalleled) how Ms. Robb has kept Eve and Roarke's story so  engrossing.<br />See you in October, with &quot;Judgment in Death&quot;.	2000-03-10
US	50421177	R106A8OA25A4QL	0380800209	147811921	Her Man Friday	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Shakespearean Plot Twists	I've just finished reading this book.  Usually, I'm a little leary of contemporaries, but...this story was totally engrossing.<br />Leo Friday is a Magnum P.I.-type who is hired to find $50 million missing from Kimball  Enterprises.  Going in diguised as the stereotypical pencil pusher  (glasses, tweed suits, the works), he proceeds to infiltrate Schuyler  Kimball's household.  There, he is subjected to a nonchalant if brilliant  billionaire, a mother who speaks to dead celebrities, a sister who  constantly throws out vocabulary tests, a young girl who looks like she  belongs in a biker bar, and a social secretary who sends his pulse racing.   Add to the mix an indomitable headmistress and a seedy Marlon-Brando  look-alike, and it's enough to keep anyone's head spinning.<br />The pantheon  of characters in this work is what makes it truly enjoyable.  They were all  real, somehow, with their little foibles and eccentricities.  I could have  easily read an extra hundred pages describing them.  Although the story  contains enough plot turns to keep the reader on her toes, what really  makes this story is the insight we get about many of the characters.  While  the story contains a good amount of overtly sensual passages, the insight  gained is what allows even a look or a pause in the conversation to leave  one's heart racing.	2000-01-21
US	50421177	R2UOSY2XKBS65B	0553575023	661656288	Charming the Prince (Once Upon a Time)	Books	4	1	8	N	N	Historically Accurate?	I guess I echo all the sentiments voiced below.  Bannor and Willow, the lead characters, were likeable, and the children were truly charming.  The &quot;Cinderella&quot; spin on this story allowed the &quot;bad guys&quot;   to get their come-uppance at the end, thus vindicating Willow for years of  suffering.<br />I am a longtime reader of historical romances, and european  history in particular is a hobby of mine.  The reason I didn't give this  story five stars is because it was basically a contemporary story that just  happened to be set in medieval times.<br />I don't think that Ms. Medeiros  really did any research on the practices of the time.  If she had, she  would have found out that, in addition to many of the expressions that she  used, the adult's general concern and &quot;political correctness&quot;  about the children doesn't ring true, not in a time where offspring were  basically ignored until they hit puberty.  <br />Add to that the fact that  Bannor was a sensitive, insightful man (even for the 20th century) in spite  of being the consummate warrior, and the whole thing becomes somewhat  difficult for the history enthusiast to swallow.<br />Charming the Prince is a  wonderfully sweet and humorous story, but the historical inacurracies were  constantly pulling me out of the story.  History buffs, be warned.	2000-01-21
US	50421177	RYVIAPGI6CCOO	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Primal and smoldering	Whew!  I must say that after reading Dark Prince, I could not wait for the next installment of intense passion.  Even though I was--and still am--anxiously awaiting Gregori's story, I do not regret reading Jacques and  Shea's story.  Among other things, I appreciated the way Ms. Feehan set up  the beginnings of the relation between Gregori and his future bride.<br />In  Dark Desire, Mikhail's brother Jacques is teetering on the brink of  insanity after suffering innumerable wounds, being left for dead, and  buried for years.  He establishes a telepathic connection with Shea, a  human American doctor.  Shea doesn't know why she is being followed by  mysterious men, but she hears Jacques' call and eventually goes in search  of him.  She finds this animalistic, riveting &quot;man&quot; and gets him  on the way to recovery, but slowly realizes that her relationship with him  is getting weirder by the minute.  Together, Jacques and Shea must deal  with his tenuous grip on reality, her acceptance of Carpathians, their  intensely passionate bond, and being hunted by vampire killers.<br />I loved  both leading characters.  Shea's scientific outlook makes it believable  that she wouldn't totally lose her mind when confronted with the  differences between Carpathians and humans, and that she could accept the  existence of an entirely new species.  The idea that Jacques is so detached  from everything around him that Shea is his only reality, and only  interest, was immensely seductive to me.  His need for her is mental as  well as physical, and he has the possessiveness of a caveman.  His  reactions and motivations are purely primal, which again I found incredibly  appealing.  <br />With the Carpathians series, Ms Feehan does a wonderful job  of re-introducing readers to the basic, instinctive rapport between male  and female.  Sensual heat radiates from every chapter, and leaves one lying  in bed at night hungering for more.	2000-01-14
US	50421177	R1RLKMC6E56RK7	0312972725	916557911	Seduced By A Scoundrel	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Plot like a sieve	If you must read Barbara Dawson Smith, I'd recommend Once Upon a Scandal, where the plot is much more consistent.  Here, we are to believe that Alicia agrees to marry Drake in order to repay a family debt, but only on  the condition that their marriage be a chaste one.  He agrees.  WHY?    She doesn't have a penny's worth of leverage with which to bargain.   <br />When they finally do consummate their marriage, we get no real  explanation of the reasoning behind Alicia's change of attitude.  Why has  she decided to stop hating this man, and surrender her prized virginity to  him?<br />Another thing that bothered me was that Drake was too perfect.  For  most of the book, no sooner did a thought pop into Alicia's head that he  knew exactly what it was.  That served no purpose except to constantly pull  me out of the story to wonder if Drake was psychic.  Who else in the world  is that perceptive--especially if we are talking about men!  Also, all  along the story, most of the misapprehensions and errors of judgment belong  to Alicia, while Drake sails along with the wisdom of a saint.  And the  only time he does regret his actions, it's not really made clear what  exactly it is he wishes he hadn't done.<br />The only things that redeemed the  book in my eyes were the passably humorous episodes with Alicia's mother,  and the sub-plot with James and Sarah.  I wish more had been written about  their romance, as I thought it was the only part that didn't seem to have  been written by a sixteen-year-old.	2000-01-14
