US	50429811	RGWLA8778FKUT	060961097X	302380866	The Clan of the Cave Bear	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A compelling story which should have been better told	The story of Ayla and her adoption by a tribe of proto-humans is a compelling one.  One wonders, while reading this book, if events such as this might have happened once long ago, and bones found of a young boy by archaeologists which were half human and half Neanderthal seem to suggest it did happen.  And in this tale, too, one can see the possibilities of how the other proto-human species might have been different from homo-sapiens, and this is a good look at how a culture might have developed that would make it difficult for such a species to survive the coming cataclysms of earth.  While Ayla is an exaggerated figure, more of an archetype of what the newer human race represented against the older Neanderthal, I did find her likeable.<br /><br />However, while I did find the story itself compelling, at many times the writing got in the way.  This book would have been well served by a copy-editor who could have clarified sentences and cleaned up grammar and punctuation.  The constant activity of my `mental editor' as I read through sentences and mentally re-phrased them, or placed correct punctuation where it should have been, or took it from where it obscured the words made it difficult to really get into the book.  I think this story would have seemed so much better if it hadn't been for the cumbersome nature of running into so many errors through the text.<br /><br />Perhaps in later editions this has been corrected; the copy I read was an older one.<br /><br />The ending left me a bit cold.  While I was satisfied at some developments, it didn't seem like a true ending.  Yes, I understand that this is a trilogy, but this book doesn't stand alone, and without the book following it, I'm left with a sense of incompletion.  I kept expecting/hoping that perhaps `The Others' which are mentioned throughout the book might show up at some point, that she might see one of her own kind...but no, I suppose that's for the next book.	2005-08-28
US	50429811	R2BOBY95N06HP	0880790792	389433624	Hanson-Roberts Tarot Deck	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An ideal deck for the beginner or experienced reader	The Hanson-Roberts Tarot deck is a lovely deck which draws on the traditional imagery of the Rider-Waite deck, yet still has its own unique look and feel.  The images are done in pastels, and are drawn beautifully with attention to detail from the expressions on the faces of the people in the cards, to the small details in the backgrounds which only assist in conveying the meaning and message of each card.  If you read cards in an image-based method, rather than straight from a book or memory, this is an excellent deck.  The cards themselves are smaller than what you would often find in a Tarot deck, and I find the smaller size (of about the size of a playing card) to be easy to handle.<br /><br />My first Tarot deck was a Hanson-Roberts more than ten years ago, and when I lost that deck after two years, I went through several different kinds, thinking I should try one of the more `unique' decks out there.  However, when I obtained another Hanson-Roberts deck, I found it felt just right.<br /><br />The Five of cups, for instance, conveys the sadness and loss associated in the spilling of the three cups in the forefront, yet the two remaining full cups are in a prominent place just behind the saddened figure in the card.  The clear meaning of the regret of loss, and the message that there is still yet something to cherish is clear.  A deeper look shows peaceful skies and a beautiful castle in the background...further evidence that the situation is not as dire as it may seem to the questioner.<br /><br />The Eight of Pentacles displays a workman, an expression of satisfaction on his face as he polishes a pentacle, evidence of his labours lay on the worktable before him.  His clothing is that of a middle-class person, well fitting and in good shape, evidence of his hard work bringing his prosperity.<br /><br />The traditional imagery makes this an ideal deck for a beginner tarot reader, and the beautiful images and comfortable size may make this deck a favourite even after many years of experience with reading the Tarot.ourite even after many years of experience with reading the Tarot. <br />	2005-02-22
US	50429811	R1XJLJHWSJ4HR3	0753507544	937279917	Alan Rickman	Books	2	211	216	N	N	The man it writes of hates it.	Though there may be information within this book on Alan Rickman's acting career, I offer simply his own words to a fan when presented with this book to sign his autograph to: &quot;I do not sign that awful book.&quot;<br /><br /> So, Rickmaniacs, be warned; he hates the book.	2004-08-05
US	50429811	RMKUY6MCC0KIY	0399129677	332565943	Dayworld (Dayworld Trilogy, I)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The fracture of the mind	Dayworld is Earth in the future.  World leaders have instituted a new way of living to solve overpopulation.  The days of the week exist as alternate realities.  Each day has it's own police, firemen, government officials, doctors and people.  Most people share thier homes with seven other people, couples or families though never see each other.  The 'stoning' device allows all this to be possible.  A person or object may be placed in suspended animation for any ammount of time, then reactivated at the desired time.  So, a person who lives on Monday would enter thier stoning chaimber before midnight, and then be reactivated the next Monday at midnight with no perception of the time that had passed.<br />However, a secret society, the 'Immers' is working against the government to allow people to live all the days, and to have freedom and democracy.  They employ 'daybreakers' in thier fold who commit one of the ultimate felonies to bring messages to agents who exist in the different days.  Jeff is one of these.  He has divided his personality into seven distinct personalities, one for each day as a controlled skitzophrania.  But, events which threaten him and his society cause his personalities to come crashing together and may threaten to destroy him and the Immers.<br />Overall, a good book.  The charachterization was good, though not as in depth as it could have been.  And, it seems from this book and others of Farmers books I've read he doesn't write strong female charachters to take stronger roles.	2004-04-22
US	50429811	R36GCQ6H6C40HN	0345419715	483151678	The Gods of Riverworld (Riverworld Saga, No 5)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Needlessly lengthy, yet still good	I kept thinking while reading this book that an editor would have been well employed in trimming a third to half this book's unnessicary length, excursions into personal histories, silly subplots, and pontifications of various charachters.<br />However, once finished it did leave me feeling satisfied that the series had closed well and the issues had been solved sufficently for the time being.  Of course, I could envision the possibility of yet another book about the return of the Ethicals at the projects end and how the new tower dewllers interact with them.<br />Loga, the renegade Ethical, having delivered his special team into the tower in the end of the last book is mysteriously killed, leaving the team wondering what is going on, and on a mission to find his killer.  In the meantime, they develop thier own problems by resurecting people from thier past, and these people resurect more and more people within the tower, posing possible overcrowding problems and possible war.  Much of the unnessicary length is in this section, but in the end everyone but three of the origional team have been killed, the Wathans, or souls of billions released from thier holding tank, and the body recordings of everyone erased from the computer.<br />At this point the conclusion may make you groan or laugh, but if you've enjoyed the riverworld series up to this point you'll probably like it.	2004-04-20
US	50429811	R3430BCZO9FD2L	042507756X	94757564	The Fabulous Riverboat (Riverworld Saga)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	To journey up the great River	In this, the second of The Riverworld series, Samuel Clemens, joined by Viking, Erik Bloodaxe undertake to find a source of iron great enough to build a Riverboat by which to navigate to the headwaters of the Riverworld and there to asertain the purpose for which they were all resurected.<br />The Stranger who has helped various individuals along with information in the first book continues to help, and lends his assistance in delivering an enormous supply of iron in reach of Clemens's team.  Undertaking thier great project, the newfounded city faces trials from within and without.  Neighboring city-states want to take over the source of iron for themselves, and Samuel Clemens must think quick to avoid trechery, even comiting trechery of his own to achive his goals.<br />Not as great as the first book, and it draggs a bit, but still enjoyable.	2004-04-20
US	50429811	R16K44WA61OQWD	1859678807	487054299	The Practical Encyclopedia of Feng Shui	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Covers many areas of Feng Shui	This is a good book to get started into Feng Shui with.  It contains many ideas, pictures, diagrams and suggestions to solve many basic feng shui problems.  However, it didn't seem to address enough in some areas.  For instance, my home faces south, yet almost every diagram for arrangment of garden features is for a north facing home, I'm left not really knowing what to do with my yard, how do I handle feng shui principles for my south facing property?  Additionally, ideal gardens and homes are lavish, expensive things, and there isn't much for someone on a more limited budget to do with thier yard.<br />Many charts for figuring interactions between people, directions, ideal arrangements are also given, but again, little information to fix whatever may already exist.<br />The book itself is easy to go through to get ideas from the many beautiful pictures, but the print is rather small for a typical hardback book.  Even with perfect vision, I had to hold the book too close and strain too much to read it.  Overall a good start, somewhat overwhelming with so much information at once, and it left me feeling like I needed to consult an expert in Feng Shui for the next step.	2004-04-07
US	50429811	R3FDADH1BW03SR	0671705601	104075392	Exiles (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 14)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not bad, but not really great	In Exiles, the Enterprise crew is faced with trying to rescue two worlds, Etolos, which is facing natural disaster through massive volcanic eruptions, and Alaj, which is facing problems from horrible pollution.  The inhabitants of the first world were exiled from the second world centuries before because they tried to tell them to stop polluting(huh?) and now, of course, thier wise message is needed and the Enterprise is sent to negotiate between the two worlds.  As others have noted, a very simple &quot;Polloution is bad&quot; message is in the forefront.<br />Meanwhile(insert dramatic organ chords here), an energy field is moving towards the pollution ravaged Alaj.  On thier way to Alaj, Riker and a small crew for a shuttlecraft are captured and find themselves inside a massive ark of a ship.  Ironically, this ship is on a path to destroy Alaj, as the culture which built it was exiled a few centuries before the Etolosians.  See a patern here?  Can we see where this is going?<br />When it comes to accurate portrayla of the charachters it's on target for the most part, with the exception of Data, who is thrown back to his inept social interactions of the first season or even sooner.  Something interresting to read, but not one of the greats of the TNG series of books.	2004-04-07
US	50429811	R2ATI0L8OKRMQW	0671879979	263658182	The Romulan Stratagem (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 35)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Federation competes with the Romulans	The Enterprise is called on a diplomatic first contact mission to a world which has only recently achived a world government after ages of war amongst themselves.  However, when they arrive they find a Romulan warbird orbiting the planet and discover the inhabitants are entertaining both the Federation and Romulan Empire as possible allies as they step into the interstellar community.<br />A few days into negotiations, terrorist atacks on the planet implicate Geordie LaFordge, and possibly the Romulans in a plot to use force to sway the decision of the planet's leadership.  Data, investigating the atacks, forms an alliance with Commander Selar, infamous daughter of Tasha Yar, for the purpose of investigating the attacks and clearing both Federation and Romulan involvement.<br />Meanwhile, Ensign Ro Laren has a young suitor who she's trying to let down easy as Commander Riker gives advise on wooing a woman to him, not knowing who he's wooing.  An interresting sub-plot which brings some humor to break up the intense negotiations going on.  Altogether a good, though not spectacular, book worth the time to read.	2004-03-30
US	50429811	RC3LHS61KEWXC	0807574902	900349462	Snipp, Snapp, Snurr and the Big Surprise	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Planning a big present, and working hard to make it	Snipp, Snapp, and Snurr are brothers who's mother is going away for a vacation as they are in the care of thier Nanny.  While thier mother is away they want to make her a special surprise present for her homecoming so they set out to get it.  However, having no money, they offer thier labor services in trade for services needed from craftsmen to make thier mother a nice chair.<br />First, they clean shop for the frame maker, then they clean shop for the upholsterer as the chair is made.  Finally, thier mother comes home and they surprise her with a nice, comfortable chair to sit in.  A nice story about giving gifts, and of working hard to get it.  A valuable, classic story which can help to instill virtues of working cheerfully for a goal for children.	2004-03-30
US	50429811	R43LFGU86F9NM	0517627507	771627787	Do-Something Day	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The need to be needed	Bernie is a young boy living with his family.  On a beautiful day he wakes up and wants to do something...but his Mother is busy, his father is busy, and his brother is busy.  Bernie feels left out and decides that since no one needs him he's going to run away!<br />So away he goes.  On his way he stops to tell many of his shop owner friends that he's running away since no one wants his help, no one needs him.  Each person he tells this to ends up needing his help, and so he helps each person as he goes along, fetching water for a horse, feeding animals in the pet shop, telling the mechanic when the lights on a car are fixed, stamping and stacking parcels of pastries, running an errand for the shoemaker, and helping the butcher hang salamies in his window.<br />As he helps each person along his way, they give him something that he'll need as he goes on.  By the end of the day he has a whole sack full of items he has recived in return for his help.  And, as he gets to thinking, he realises that his help was needed, and that he was wanted so he goes back home.<br />When he arrives at home to his parents and brother waiting for him, he shows them everything he recived while running away.  Everyone is delighted as he has something everyone needs, and he is thanked for being a big help to everyone.<br />A good story about being needed and helping out.	2004-03-30
US	50429811	RRP4AQZNT0DUC	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A new, unexplainable world of raised dead	This is the first of the Riverworld series I've read, and picked it up quite by accident and found within the first two chapters that I was reading the inspiration for the SciFi TV movie &quot;Riverworld&quot; which I quite enjoyed about a year ago.<br />Famous explorer and author Richard Burton awakes after his death to find all the pains of life near the end gone and himself floating among many bodies all around him.  He is discovered and then plunges back into darkness to find himself awaking in a grassy meadow by a river surrounded by hundreds of others just waking.  They are people from various times, some who know of him, and an alien and a proto-human neanderthal among them.  Many belive themselves to be in purgutory, heaven, or hell, but a few know this cannot be an afterlife, there is something else at work here.<br />Amid the chaos which first ensues he embarks to gather a group to protect themselves from any others who may wish them ill, and then to build a boat to navigate the source of the river.  Along the way they find historical figures, both great and evil who help or impede thier journey.  And, miraculasly, it seems they do not die permanently in this world, but are rather resurected again somewhere else along the eternal river along who's banks the entirety of every human who has ever lived now exists.<br />Burton is driven to find the source of all that has transpired, why are they here?  What is the purpose of thier resurection?  Are those forces malevelont or benevolent?  I must now embark to read the rest of the series to find out!<br />A quick read, I finished in several hours.  Charachter development is lacking, but the quest and concept are quite intriguing.	2004-03-24
US	50429811	R2QZFO9TU6HO2O	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Migration to the Promised Land	Set in the Dust Bowl of Oklahoma, and on the long road to California, the promised land in the time of The Great Depression.  The Joad family is one of many families, sharecropers, thrown off thier land when the crops fail and who must become migrant workers.  There is the promise of jobs in California, so to California they must go.  Piling thier trucks and cars high with what few possessions they have not sold, and heading out on the road.<br />This is more than the story of a single family though, much more.  This is the story of hundreds of thousands of families, homeless and wandering and starving while trying to maintain a shred of dignity and humanity.  They must endure the cruelties of the road, the police, the foremen of the farms who will work entire families all day for only enough money for a single meal's worth of food at the company store.<br />Though this book's length is rather daunting, I found myself so caught up in the struggle of the Joads that I read through in a short time.  Through the story of the Joads, the story of the migrant workers of that era is well portraied; the struggle of many in the migration, the search for work, the pain of death, the dispair of watching the children go hungry and feeling helpless to stop it.	2004-03-23
US	50429811	R30SCJJ0FY09K9	0486270718	691093854	The Invisible Man (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Be Carefull what you wish for...	H.G.Wells tells a story of a scientist who has made a wonderous breakthrough in chemestry by finding a way to make living tissue invisible.<br />We begin in a small town in America, where a stranger has arrived at an inn run by a busybody who is intent on discovering this strangers secret.  He's wrapped up in bandages, and has a rude demenaor.  The scientist spends his days and nights tinkering with scientific things which she doesn't understand.  Until finally, the secret is unvielled.<br />The Invisible Man, who was formerly known as Griffin, undertakes a terrorising of the inhabitants of the small town for an afternoon before setting off to find somewhere else to continue his research and theft.  In his travel, he finds an old college mate and thinks himself fortunate because now, of course, his old aquaintance will give him food and shelter, hide him from the police, and assist him in his research?<br />He begins to tell his old aquaintance, Dr Kemp, of his tragic story.  Kemp is horrified both at the selfishness of Griffin, and the insane nature that he has developed as a result of the difficulties of invisibility.  These traits combine in the scientist to produce a dangerous and insane criminal who must be stopped.<br />A good story, short enough to read in several hours, and one which demonstrates the old adage &quot;Be Carefull what you wish for, you just might get it.&quot;	2004-03-20
US	50429811	R80E6Z7OTDM82	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Utter Futility	I personally did not find this tragedy to be a comedy, rather a well done work about utter futility.  Heinlein deffinitly decided to stray from his beaten path in this book, and the result is very good.  No Jubal Hershal/Lazrus Long types will you find in excess...just one pious man for whom life has turned utterly wrong, and his love.<br />The various paralell universes turn out to be prety interresting themselves, the wonder of such things as street lights(people will actually obey a light?) or other minor things add to the story.  As they move through elaborate tests, the world changing around them with no warning at random intervals they seek some kind of stability on which to stand.  At every turn they work hard, save thier money, only to find all thier hard work for nothing, and themselves destitute once more.<br />And why all the suffering?  His &quot;all-powerful&quot; god wants to have fun with a wager, and send him all this suffering and pain.  Unlike the biblical Job, our protaginist does not suffer from boiles and fevers and sickness.  Finally, he comes to understand that the world of his creator is not as he had thought, and those enemies of his creator are not all bad.	2004-03-16
US	50429811	R2VS9T31DYV323	0380718812	894678870	Flying to Valhalla	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Hard Sci-fi look at relativity and alien worlds	A new spaceship, the Valkerie, is hurtling towards our nearest stelar companion, Alpha-Centauri.  Onboard, are two humans and a computer AI who will be responsible for charting the worlds they find, and communicating thier findings back to earth.<br />They find a planet which seems to have no evidence of intelligent life, but upon further investigation they find a species of life which displays incredible mental abilities, and these people are totally unafraid of the aliens landing on thier world.<br />During the voyage to Alpha Centauri, Chris Wayville suffers from nightmares, waking dreams, and visions of lives lived and re-lived, horrid mistakes made, and again and again he begins on his voyage which he feels is destined to cause the destruction of Earth.  Several years later, Earth, reciving these demented ravings fears for earth, and begins planning for a strike against whatever may be coming back.<br />As Chris and Clarice get to know the inhabitants, they also learn hard lessons on interfering in the natural set up of an alien world, and how one seemingly meaningless mistake can cause devestation.<br />Flying to Valhalla isn't heavy on charachter development, the science and theory of relativity, alien evoloution, and alien technology and society taking the front stage.  Still, a quick and enjoyable read.	2004-03-16
US	50429811	R1FIZOCTWUHVX2	0451524918	53340599	The Mysterious Island (Signet Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A classic adventure tale	In this Classic Adventure tale written in 1870, Verne tells the story of some castaways who are stranded on a deserted island after escaping from a town under seige in the Civil War.  Now, reading this book well over a century after it was written, many would have cause to scorn the book because of the simplistic science presented, along with all the mistakes and misconceptions of it's time.  Let us not take for granted that now basic knowledge of geology, botony, and biology are common knowledge, not requiring a scientist or professor to understand.<br />Much of the book is the story of the castaways turned colinists who build a home, manufacture explosives, keep animals, and suffer through hardships.  Throughout thier stay on the Island, they come across mysteries they cannot explain, being saved in the nick of time, and at the end, they finally discover the identy of that one who has watched over them and provided help in cognito.<br />Certainly a classic adventure tale, that, while not up to modern standards of science and suspence, is an excellent way to get aquainted with times past.	2004-03-15
US	50429811	R3OH1ONLLR28UT	1591099110	19678541	Living Asatru	Books	4	39	39	N	N	The Basics, plain and simple	Greg Shetler's &quot;Living Asatru&quot; is a concise introduction to Asatru.  Begining with an explination of what Asatru is not by debunking some common enough misconceptions, Shetler then goes on to give explination of what Asatru actually is; starting with where we are today in reconstructing a religion which we know mostly from archeology and mythology.  He stresses the importance of Oaths, Honor, and Ethics through the section on 'Lessons from the Lore' and even includes modern day life hypothetical examples of application of ethics and oaths.<br />A basic introduction to the Aesir and Vanir, the holy tides of the year, the runes and a few cerimonies follow.  While not meant as a thorough resource, it does fill it's intended niche quite well as a basic handbook of Asatru, perfect for the beginner, and a book any kindred would do well to have on hand as a basic introduction to Asatru for new seekers.	2004-03-05
US	50429811	R3VYROHVXXGWWY	159457006X	34704746	Hammer of the Gods: Anglo-Saxon Paganism in Modern Times	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A thorough resource for modern Heathens	In Hammer of the Gods, Swain Wodening explores and explaines the practices of modern Heathenry.  Anglo-Saxon heathenry is the main focus, however this book is also a valuable resource to Asatruar, and Theodish Heathens.  The Thews and Virtues of Heathenry are well explained, and refrences given from the lore and historical sources in many relevant pasages.  The focus on the Thewes and Virtues is important in the practice of Heathenry, as well as proper behavior within group settings in honoring of our Gods.<br />The Gods and Goddesses are well explained, refrences are quoted to give background to how each God and Goddess was viewed historically, and how one would apply approaches in modern day life.  Good explinations of the celebrations and ceremonies which accompany the Holy Tides of the year, and Blots to individual Deities are well presented. A newcomer to the ways of Heathenry would do well to purchace this book as a guide in thier practice, as would someone who has been Heathen for many years find information of good use and insight.  Blot, Husel, Symbel, Oaths, Boasts, setting of Sacred Space, use of ritual tools, and the Runes are also thoroughly explained.<br />Hammer of the Gods also includes information about modern Heathen Movements and Societies, which is helpful for newcomers in finding information which will speed them on thier journey of learning and study of the Gods and Goddesses.  The complete bibliography in the back is also a good source for starting your own library of sources for learning.<br />In all, Swain Wodening has brought us an important work avalible to all on the practice of Heathenry.  Much more than just a basic book, or only specailised in one or two areas like most now avalible, Hammer of the Gods is one of the most thorough works on the market today about the practices, beliefs, and application of the ancient ways.	2004-02-29
US	50429811	R29G771VFGEEH6	0812539753	870641215	The Jupiter Plague	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A pageturner about a plauge from Jupiter	A spaceship, long overdue, has returned from it's mission to Jupiter.  Sam, a young intern doctor is called up on his Ambulance to arrive at a scene of death and destruction at Kennedy Airport in New York City.  As he tries to find someone living among the many dead, the spaceship opens and one crew member comes out, deathly ill.  He maganes to write one cryptic message before slipping into unconsiousness.<br />Soon, a plauge spreads through New York City, killing birds, and spreading from birds to humans.  All attempts at treatment of the disease fail.  People begin rioting, and martial law is put in place.<br />Sam must find a cure, but to do so he has to figure out what that cryptic message really means, and must fight against the politics of those in charge who won't listen.<br />All in all, a decent story.  I did find some of the situations unrealistic.  And, while there was a lot of attention paid to details of action, there wasn't as much in the way of plot development.  Sam falls and another doctor fall in love, but there was very little building of the relationship other than the two of them working through some scary situations together.	2004-02-19
US	50429811	R33GKT60L0WIKH	055328066X	439803408	Waiting For The Galactic Bus	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent, entertaining religious satire	....<br />Waiting for the Galactic bus begins at the begining...of the human race that is.  Some aliens who can exist in solid form or in energy are taking a trip around the universe, tripping all the way since they're young and want to try the latest and greatest in sensory experience through thier equivilant of drugs and extreme sports.  They happen upon a planet where they spend some time drinking in the rich atmosphere and experiencing various solid forms, getting drunk on the sensations.  When they're ready to leave, two brothers in thier number who are considered trouble makers and losers are too drunk and get left behind.  The others decide they'll come back for them in an aeon or two, serves them right for being drunk jerks, right?<br />Barion and Coyul wake to find themselves alone, with nothing but the primitive life of Earth to keep them company.  Since they're so bored, one decides to give self-awareness to a monkey and start a human species.  His brother warns him against this, as there are serious laws against elevating species before they are prepared for it, the disasters resulting from such irresponsible advancement of a species are terrible and the punishments severe.  But, since the deed's been done, might as well improve on the design, right? figures the other brother.<br />And so, it is the begining of all the creativity, sadness, hope, destruction, love, hate, art, and violence.  Barion and Coyul soon discover that this new species just keeps going on after they die in the form of consious energy.  Not quite sure what to do with them, they decide to throw them a party, and \\"Upstairs\\" and \\"Downstairs\\" develop, and religions on earth develop and influence the way the realms develop.<br />So, after witnessing human history, and all the violence it can produce, as well as recognising the potential, they decide to intervene to stop what could very well be the next Hitler, before he is even conceived.  And here is where our human charachters enter.  Charity and Roy...Roy the Nazi wanna-be, and Charity, who has great potential, but doesn't know much of anything outside what she learned in a podunk little town; poverty, the local tabernacle church, and McDonalds.<br />Coyul and Barion take them on a ride through downstairs they can never forget, giving them both thier individual dreams to wake the sleeping genious in Charity, and to show her the monster the Roy can become.  Charachters throughout history are also working in the realms of upstairs and downstairs and add a lot to the story.  All told in witty, thoughtfull, and downright funny prose.  A very enjoyable read.Charity and Roy...Roy the Nazi wanna-be, and Charity, who has great potential, but doesn't know much of anything outside what she learned in a podunk little town; poverty, the local tabernacle church, and McDonalds.<br />Coyul and Barion take them on a ride through downstairs they can never forget, giving them both thier individual dreams to wake the sleeping genious in Charity, and to show her the monster the Roy can become.  Charachters throughout history are also working in the realms of upstairs and downstairs and add a lot to the story.  All told in witty, thoughtfull, and downright funny prose.  A very enjoyable read.	2004-02-12
US	50429811	R45L97R1WQQNQ	0712636374	224165151	The Folk of the Fringe	Books	2	5	13	N	N	Mormons save America?	In This collection of stories, not quite short stories and not quite novellas, we see the world after a great war which has thrown the world into chaos and turmoil.  Many are still dying, and outside small cities where local governments rule and help maintain order, the bandits on the roads rule with terror.<br />However, in Utah, the Mormons are building civilization out of chaos and forming government.<br />The stories were somewhat interresting, however, deeply disturbing.  I can't say I cared much for the horrid descriptions of terrible child neclect and abuse in the first story, even though the rest of the story was ok, certain sections left me feeling sickened and disturbed for days afterwards and having more than usual urges to go make sure my kids were tucked in and safely sleeping at night.  It also had disturbing paralells to a local case I remember of child neglect/abuse of a little girl who was locked in a closet for years.<br />The other stories are less emotion-enducing...as there's not really much to them.  Basically people trying to fit into the Mormon run society and find thier place within, espically those who are not Mormon.	2004-02-10
US	50429811	R2Y81OB1BT1LEA	0380973022	909464945	Moonrise	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Betrayal and Turmoil on the new Frontier	In Moonrise, Ben Bova writes a good story of what could be on the Moon in the future.  While it is somewhat predictable, it's still a good story.<br />Masterson Corperation is working on exploring and mining the Lunar surface for solar power and other minerals, and it is the dream of Paul Stavenger, retired astronout and designer of one of the compainies most profitable products, the Clippership which makes travel around the world possible in less than an hour by ships which work above the atmosphere in low orbit.<br />The company is in turmoil as Gregory Masterson the second dies sudenly and under questionable circumstances, and Gregory Masterson the third expects to take his place as President of the company.  However, the wife of the late president nominates Paul Stavenger, her lover and fiance to the position, setting forces in motion which could tear the company apart as Gregory the second rages and plots to regain his rightfull place.<br />The trials and triumpsh of Moonbase, and of Nanotechnology are closly linked.  Nanotechnology is opposed by an extremist religious movement which organises protests and terrorism against any who use it, Moonbase becomes the last place where it is safe to use nanites.  However, even this is in danger.<br />Joanna Masterson/Stavenger must walk a tightrope between her son, and doing what is best for him, and her new husband, and protecting him, and later her second son, Doug Stavenger, son of Paul, from the plots of her criminally insane elder son.  However, we can see where a mother's love and protection can go too far in trying to protect one who should be locked up.<br />In the end, it's up to Doug to save his father's legacy and dream of a future on the Moon, even if it kills him.	2004-02-05
US	50429811	R3318C5FMGA19N	0380786982	495928980	Moonwar	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Murder and War between the scientists and the fanatics	Moonbase has expanded, and now is host to over two thousand employees and researchers.  Doug Stavenger lives on Moonbase as Earth is too dangerous for him because the Luddite extreemist factions are out to kill anyone who uses nanotechnology.<br />The UN is determined to stamp out use of Nanotechnology on the surface, but thier ulterior motives are to gain controll of Nanotechnology for use as they see fit.<br />Moonwar is a bit predictable, and the 'bad guys' are just way too disfunctional as people to have attained the positions of power in government they have achieved.  The 'New Morality' which is quickly gripping the world in a theocracy, opposes nanotechnology, and will use Murder and terrorism to attain thier goals.<br />Soon, forces culminate into a battle at Moonbase, those in Moonbase thwarting two different attacks and flushing out suicide bombers.  It's a bit too easy for them though.<br />Overall, a nice book if you've read the first one, but not as realistic as it could be, and not very beliveable.	2004-02-05
US	50429811	R1V3KGDVSB90DS	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Science Fiction Classic study on society	The Time Machine is one of the great classics of Science Fiction.  Though there is not much to the 'science', merely the idea of a machine which could travel through time, no attempt is made to speak of the science involved in time travel.  But, that's not really the point.<br />This is a good work of societal study of what could happen with the division of the classes over time.  Now, over a century after this work was first pened it's not so apparent...a person of any level has the ability to work thier way upwards in class, and class division isn't as much as it was then with a strong middle class and extreme lower and  extreme upper classes in the minority.  This is an important historical aspect to consider in relation to H.G. Wells's work.<br />In the distant future, a world of polar opposites exists.  The Eloi live in comfort and ease, they are the distant decendants of the upper classes who were waited on hand and foot, and who had achieved the ultimate in mastery over nature, and archetecture.  Evoloution takes hold and intelligence and strength are no longer nessicary traits for survival, and so the Eloi are childlike, simple, and weak.  They enjoy a simple life of playing, eating and sleeping when they feel like it, not bothered with providing themselves for food, clothing or shelter.<br />The Morlocks, decendants of the miserably hard working, toiling servant classes live underground and tend to machinery.  Thiers is a world of darkness, they are the unseen, just as thier forefathers 800 thousand years before were the unseen of society, needed, but not noticed, and relegated to the world of cellars and serving thier rich masters.<br />However, evoloution has taken an ironic turn.  With the excessive division of the classes, they have become different species.  The Morlocks now keep the Eloy as we keep livestock, providing them with food, shelter, and clothing, and letting them live thier peacefull lives frolicking in thier pastures.  And, as with cattle, the Eloi are little more than food for slaughter.<br />We read of the Struggle of the Time Traveler, who remains unnamed in this work, as he must confront the Morlocks to regain his time machine and find his way home again.the Eloi are little more than food for slaughter.<br />We read of the Struggle of the Time Traveler, who remains unnamed in this work, as he must confront the Morlocks to regain his time machine and find his way home again.	2004-02-05
US	50429811	R27LMUOSXCNMFJ	0312862083	840072794	The Abductors: Conspiracy	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Commander Riker tries to write	This is a rather mediocre book.  A story of an alien invasion, the protoganist is a retired police officer turned private investigator and is hired to find the daughter of a rich man, and later an elderly man, both kidnapped by aliens, though this fact is unknown to him at first.<br />The Aliens are kidnapping elderly people and having doubles go into all the major cities carting a hydrogen bomb with attached EMP blaster.  The protoganist, along with a group dedicated to finding and eliminating the alien threat on earth find and dismantle thier plan, and rescue some people.<br />While the story is interresting, the writing quality is poor and this would have been much better if it had been better written.  In a final battle(which was suposed to be the story climax, but wasn't that powerful) the protaginist loads up his AK-47 and recives last-minute instructions on it's use, only to find himself shooting an M-16..(did the aliens switch it on him?)..in the middle of a shoot-out with a couple of aliens.<br />Well Riker, try again, not terribly bad for a first book.	2004-01-27
US	50429811	R1RNWTAAHVUDOY	067197758X	38578832	The Devil's Heart (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	&quot;...the blood never stops flowing.&quot;	This said by the last bearer of the Ko N'ya as she dies aboard the Enterprise, and just after Picard has taken possession of a stone which throughout history has played major roles, and which has had turmoil, war, and bloodshed follow this relic through the universe.  And now, Picard holds it on the eve of a prophesy which brings a number of the many races and cultures who have at one time held this Devil's Heart, and each wants to reclaim it.<br />As the mission moves on, the senior officers become concerned with thier captain's obcession with a stone which the Captain is rarely seen without, on the times that he is even seen.  Captain Picard feels it is his duty to be a warden of this stone, and as he begins to understand the importance of the stone, learning from it, he begins to be tempted by the power it promises to bring him.<br />This is an enjoyable TNG book, well written with few faults.  I'm reminded in a way of another great story about an ancient relic which is now recieving heightened interest after the three movies have been made, Lord of the Rings...even the name &quot;Gem-bearer&quot; is not far removed from &quot;Ring-bearer&quot; and the stone seems to have similar powers of corruption on whoever holds it.	2004-01-26
US	50429811	R3OXFFHNXFCKFM	0595659446	439596399	The Eye of Odin	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent Retelling of the Vinland Sagas	The Eye of Odin, writen in the straighfoward style of the Sagas of the Icelanders, is an excellent re-telling of the events leading to the discovery by Lief Erikson of Vinland, or the North American Continent.  Spanning three generations, starting with events leading to the exile of Erik's father from Norway, James Larson fills in the tale with information about the culture, government, and technology of the Norse people without bogging the reader down with too much information which can lead to sounding like a textbook.  I've read some of the Sagas of the Icelanders previous to this and feel this book did very well in filling in a lot of information that modern readers need, such as lifestlye, culture, and such that were taken for granted when the stories were first written down two hundred years after these events happened.<br />The charachters are well portraied, and the struggle of Christian and Heathen forces before the official conversion of Iceland well done, showing people who were both true believers in the new religion, and those who simply used the new religion to gain power and wealth, as well as the thoughts of those who refused to abandon the ways of thier forefathers for a new way.<br />Events culminate with the discovery of Greenland and migration to the new land by Eric the Red and his people following his outlawry from Iceland, during which time disaster strikes and many are lost, but some survive and are marooned on yet another strange, new land.<br />The only cavet I have about the book is that I feel the many other deities worshiped and honored by the Heathen Icelanders could have been more fully explored or explained for readers who may be non-heathens.  As it is, Odin is given much attention, but only a few other gods are mentioned, and even then not explained very far.  However, the main point of the story are the events, trials, and triumphs of Eric the Red and his family and friends, so this isn't too bad an oversight.<br />There is a coming sequal to this book covering the travels and experiences in the new world of Wolfgar, friend and advisor to Leif, and one who is blessed by Odin and reads the runes and recives visions and dreams from Odin.  I am greatly looking foward to reading that as soon as it is released.g sequal to this book covering the travels and experiences in the new world of Wolfgar, friend and advisor to Leif, and one who is blessed by Odin and reads the runes and recives visions and dreams from Odin.  I am greatly looking foward to reading that as soon as it is released.	2004-01-22
US	50429811	R3UFH656LHHGPD	5551614603	265603571	To Sail Beyond the Sunset	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A truely magnificint wrap up	In R.A.Heinlein's final book, he magages to tell the story of the mother of his most famous charachter with style.  Maureen Johnson Smith, who raised children, kept house, lived through some tumultous times both political and personal.<br />As a homemaker myself, I found her story of her early life rasing children and keeping house to be inspiring, how she could find satisfaction and keep her head up while she, at times, had to serve \\"fried mush\\" for supper for her husband and many children when finances were tight.  Maureen is the image of the perfect housewife and mother in her early childbearing years according to the standards of that puritanical era, while still able to have her freedom in areas she needs.<br />Of course, as all later Heinlein books, there is a more than average ammount of copulation going on, and in this work espically, incest takes front seat.  While personally the idea of incest is not one I find appealing in the least, I feel that it didn't detract too much from this incredible story.<br />And of course, as in all Heinlein books, both early and late you'll find political and social commentary in plenty, in this more than many of his works I belive.  I'm sure conservatives would find a strange dichotomy between the seemingly endless orgies, incest, and sex of other varieties, and at the same time the stress on family values, sticking around for the kids, and what the horrible consequences can be of broken families for the children.  The faults of Democracy are expounded upon, and I have to agree that much of what he wrote is becoming nowadays.  The citizens are voting themselves \\"bread and circuses\\" and bleeding the nation to death in endless social programs.<br />Heinlein maganged in this book to both tell the story of a remarkable woman living through harsh and crazy times, and to weave together the loose ends of many of his other stories...but still, I belive that even more could have been written after this book tying up a few loose ends started in this book.  Alas, the grand master died too soon.s started in this book.  Alas, the grand master died too soon.	2004-01-14
US	50429811	R3X0PHNPRABGO	0878770100	271649743	Dreams and Ghosts	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An excellent tale in the tradition of the Icelandic Sagas	H. Rider Haggard wove a tale in this book of romance, intrigue, magic, heroism and battle which is so like that of the Icelandic Sagas one could think this would be included in a collection of historical Sagas.<br />Eric Brighteyes, a young carl in Iceland loves the daughter of a priest of the old way, who is also quite wealthy and doesn't belive Eric Brighteyes as worthy of wedding his daughter and so dares him to a feat of daring thinking that Eric wouldn't do it.  After acomplishing this Eric must leave Iceland because of legal troubles, and his story of adventure afar is told, as is that of his would-be bride at home as well as that of another woman who loves Eric, and who would do anything to get him.<br />In the midst of this are woven tales of battle and comraderie among warriors, the harsh life of the Icelanders, magic of woe and weal, and the weave of wyrd set by the Norns.	2003-12-30
US	50429811	R63MR6MDD6FKY	0441094996	271001733	The Cat Who Walks through Walls	Books	4	3	5	N	N	An involved and interresting read for the Heinlein Fan	I came here and read the reviews before undertaking this book and I decided to take the suggestions of a few of the reviewers here and put aside this book for a while to read some others before this one.  I'm very glad I did so as the book would have been totally confusing without having read the previous works.  So, a list of books you should read before this one: Time Enough for Love, Methusla's Children, Glory Road, and The Number of the Beast.  Without reading these books the second half of the book will make no sense and the new charachters coming in will serve to confuse you.<br />Now, that out of the way...this book is an excellent adventure tale as the protoganist is pulled and bounced around by forces outside his control and byond his understanding.  However, he soon finds himself leaning of the reasons behind his troubles and gets recruted by none other than Lazurus Long, to work as a special agent on a rescue mission.<br />All in all an enjoyable book, and I can't wait to read the next book \\"To Sail Byond the Sunset\\"	2003-12-19
US	50429811	R2J25PF515SVCU	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interresting Story	American Gods is modern fantasy centered around many of the Old gods from various cultures and is an interresting story of what could happen in the New World when they are brought to America by followers in the pioneer days and then forgotten.  It's a tale of beings trying to survive, and desperate for the worship which once made them strong, and how a human may be caught up in thier struggle.<br />Shadow, the protoganist, finds himself caught up in a plot by Odin to bring on a war against the new gods of Telivision, Computers and thier minions.  Events culminate into a battle.<br />It did make me think about how important it is to honor the old gods today, something of a \\"what if we never gave them offerings?\\" what would happen to them?  How would they cope?  Fourtunatly, the old gods today are remembered, and given thier offerings by people who still follow the old ways today in the new world.  I found the concept of the new gods of the information age to be interresting, however, I think this is another reminder to live deliberately, and to know how to use a technology properly.  Computers have done more to help spread and gather those who follow the old ways than could have been done without them, so I personally would see computers not as a competing force, but as a tool which has been, and can be used to further the purposes of the Gods and Goddesses.	2003-11-21
US	50429811	R3CNMNE4Y32FD0	0345350596	962163505	The Star Beast	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another great Heinlein Juvie	This is a quick, funny read about a creature from the stars who raises John Thomas's...at least from his perspective it's fairly accurate as he has been passed down over several generations of John Thomas's as a pet named Lummox.  All is well and placid, Lummox usually being content to amuse himself in the backyard and enjoy the company of the latest John Thomas...but alas, the time has come at which the current John Thomas is growing up, and so spending less and less time with Lummox to devote to matters which young men are wont to do.  So, Lummox is bored and decides to take a walk outside the yard with disastrous results.<br />Events soon culminate to the point of nearly meeting interstelar war as those of Lummox's species show up wanting thier baby back.  Of course, since it's Heinlein, you can still expect some comments tossed in with regards to the role of government, free will and civil rights, politicians and legislature.  But, this is far less than many of his books and just tells a good, fun tale of a Lummox and his pet John Thomas.	2003-11-12
US	50429811	RWEQ2FEKPTAKY	0698117913	140045413	Trouble with Trolls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A delightefull tale of an adventurous hike	Treva, a girl in Norway wants to go visit her cousin on the other side of a mountain near her home so off she goes with her dog, and her skis straped to her back.  Her little hike soon meets with excitement when a troll tries to kidnap her dog!  She comes up with a clever scheme to trick this troll, and several more trolls afterwards.  At the end, she manages to trick all the trolls again at once, and gets back her mittens, gloves, hat, sweater, skis and of course, her dog!<br />The illustrations are absoutely beautiful, and really bring life to the story.	2003-10-07
US	50429811	R2YZ9TM395SIVL	0553207806	631154197	Starworld	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Trillogy comes to a Close	In this final book of the 'To The Stars' trillogy Jan joins up in the revoloution which is sweeping across the stars to free the world of the tyrrany which is in power.<br />It went out with more of a fizzle than a bang though.  Events happen too easily, and there is little in the way of charachter development.  The protoganist, Jan, while someone who can take what is given to him and do something with it, spends most of this book riding the waves of what is set in front of him rather than forging his own path.  In the end, I felt anyone could have had the parts he had and things turn out the same.  The entire trillogy was too short, and relied more in events out of the charachters controll to move the storyline along.  I think it could have been a lot better with more charachter development.<br />Dispite these criticisms, it was a good story.  And, most trillogies tend to fizzle in the second and last books anyway.	2003-10-04
US	50429811	R3DT4QIQU2UHWU	0425088030	321053862	Brisingamen	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Modern Norse Pagan fantacy Novel	The Author, Diana Paxon is a respected elder in Asatru and so seeing a modern fantacy by her I had to read it.<br />As the other reviewers here have noted, it is rather dated, there is a lot about the Vietnam war, including some social commentary on it, but that doesn't interfere with the story, rather gives background to some of the charachters and why they have developed in the way which they have.<br />It begins as Karen, a shy grad student on the faculty at Berkley has discovered the legendary neclace of Freya, Brisingamen.  Not knowing it's power, she wears it and soon the power of Freya, and those enemies and allies of Freya begin to work in her life.  Soon, these forces culminate into an epic battle of the gods to stave off Ragnarok.<br />Another note on the relgion portraied in the book.  It was written at the time that the modern Asatru movement was only begining and those of you who are Asatru may be interrested in seeing how someone who is now an elder in the faith percieved things before any orgainisations existed.<br />A very good book, and one I'll be sure to read again in the future.	2003-10-02
US	50429811	R17FYKWIZCY7RU	0553207741	723399117	Wheelworld (To the Stars, Vol. 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exile on a harsh world	Jan Kulozik, having been caught working for the resistance in the previous book, has been given scentence of exile on a remote planet who's unusual conditions make it an ideal place for farming, with a once every four years upheavel as the inhabitant workers must move to the opposite pole of the planet or die from extreme heat.<br />It's been over twelve years and it's time for the migration, however, the spaceships which come every season change before they must move haven't come, forcing them to take thier crops with them and make the perilous journey through the planets' summer zone with tempratures over two hundred degrees, and other dangers associated with the trip in the form of the road connecting the polar continents which is starting to wear down after several hundred years.<br />This book contains little of the plot of the previous book, and could be read independantly, however the third book in the trillogy does play back into the first book.<br />An exciting novel, containing politics of the small planetary population and revoloution.	2003-09-29
US	50429811	R260QLF8HS2DGC	0553139177	718447329	Homeworld (To the Stars, Vol. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A futuristic, Orwellian world	Home World is a tale of suspence and secrecy when the protagonist has events in his life which lead him to question how the world has come to be as it is.  Freedoms are nonexistant, a large number of people live in horrible poverty working as ecconomic slaves for the most part just to survive.  Jan is in the upper class of people, the class in power, however this doesn't mean that his freedoms and his life are any more protected if he begins to question the order of society.<br />An enjoyable spy, resistance against power type novel that is a quick read.  It's an older book, so seems rather short considering the current style of much longer books and it is lacking a bit on the charachter development.	2003-09-29
US	50429811	R3OJLALQ15DVB8	0835911039	155881122	Star Trek the Next Generation: War Drums	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An enjoyable, and exciting away team mission	The Enterprise is sent on a mission to discover what is behind the attacks on a federation colony by Klingons on a distant planet which is in a de-facto neutral zone between the Klingon and Romulan empires.  Once there the Away team discovers a Klingon prisoner who has been beaten and starved, and is only a young teenager.  Further invistigation uncovers several mysteries and dangers.<br />While I did find the story to be a good one, and espically enjoyed the action and suspense, there were several technical and logical errors on the part of some of the crew.  Dianna's abilities were far less than what they should have been(inability to sense deception) and the Enterprises sensors should have been able to play a better part here and make it possible to solve this issue much quicker.	2003-09-02
US	50429811	R1KVLK6QOLWTPC	0671520032	576185387	Balance of Power (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 33)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Totally Unrealistic, but funny at times	Balance of power is a totally unrealistic book when taken in context with the star trek universe.<br />Firstly, there is the emphasis on money, gold-pressed latinum and refrences to starfleet cadets needing to pay for thier education, food, lodging and so forth.  Yet, throughout the series it's made clear that they have eliminated the need for money, and have eliminated poverty on earth.  So why the focus on money and the lack of it from the charachters?  Yes, people in the federation do spend money, but on luxury items, not on basic nessicities or education.<br />The Warp Five speed limit?  Why is this book the only one I've read which mentions it?  The author took one episode WAY out of context.  The warp five speed limit was for *one* SINGLE sector, not the whole quadrant, so the whole rediculous plot around getting to an auction on time is totally wrong.  There have been no refrences in any episodes of star trek TNG or DS9 about a warp five speed limit.<br />Another thing is the charachters acting totally wrong.  Geordie acting like a jerk and telling people off, Worf not acting right and more.  The only charachter who was portraied anywhere near correctly was Wesley Crusher.<br />Most of the book was just [bad].  However, some of the Ferengi and Wesly interactions were funny....so the book gets two, rather than one star.	2003-08-15
US	50429811	R1BOPVPH6QT67W	0671798316	719962738	Guises of the Mind (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 27)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent, charachter accurate, TNG novel	I was very plesantly surprised when I read this book.  I've read more than my share of badly written TNG novels lately, and picked up this one from the library with a bit of trepidation, wondering if there were no more TNG books worth the time to read them.  Fourtunatly, this was an excellent book.<br />Dianna Troi is well portraied, and her empathic talents are streched to the limit in this mission.  This book also has religion as a central theme for a change.  As someone who is facinated by the study of various religions I found this to be a refreshing change, however I would have liked to see something a little less centered on catholicism and/or christianity.  The religion of the people on the planet is also very similar to catholicism.<br />The Enterprise is on a mission to take two members of the religious order &quot;The Little Mothers&quot; to a planet who has requested thier assistance and Picard is on a mission to bring a treaty to the planet for entrance into the Federation as the monarch heir is being corinated as the supreme leader of the planet.  The Little Mothers care for orphans and unwanted children no matter what thier physical or mental condition.  Thier being sent on this mission turns out to be an unexpected godsend for one of the little mothers who comes to term with a gift which she has always seen as a curse.<br />However, there is something devious happening there which you should discover by reading on your own.  This is a well written, enchanting story which is a great addition to the trek world.	2003-08-15
US	50429811	R12UZ8XXVY66NZ	0553211587	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What makes an individual who he is?	Pudd'nhead Wilson by Mark Twain is a quick read, yet profound.  This switched-at-brith tragic tale is wonderfully told with Twain's wit and humor, and well done vernacular of the slave-speech.<br />There are two audiances one should consider while reading this book.  The audience of the time in which the book was written, and today's modern audience, as the standards for the two, and the message conveyed are diferent for each of these.<br />Roxy, a slave women who is one sixteenth black descent gives birth to a child who is one thirty-second part black descent.  Her masters also have a child born on the same day to her, and Roxy is caretaker to both.  A day comes when Roxy is so overcome with grief of the possible future that her son may be \\"sold down the river\\"(a tragedy to a slave, as they don't treat thier slaves as well down-river, or so is the common belief) that she is nearly moved to kill herself and her son to save him from this dreadfull future.  However, she happens upon an idea of switching her child for the child of her master, as they look very much alike, neither herself or her child appear black in the least.<br />The switch is successfull for many years.  The two boys grow up together, one as the master who would have been slave, and the other as the slave, who would have been master had they not had thier places switched.  The one who has taken the place of Tom grows up spoiled, becomes a gambler and loafer and mistreats the one who is his caretaker, and in actuality his mother.<br />Pudd'nhead Wilson, nicknamed so as he is seen as the town dunderhead for his eccentric habits will become the 'hero' of this story.  He has a hobby of collecting and comparing fingerprints, and the town's citizens indulge him in this by allowing thier fingerprints to be taken at verious intervals in thier lives, as well as that of thier babes.  This will prove the undoing of the would-be white heir.<br />In a final climatic court scene of a murder trial, Pudd'nhead Wilson uncovers the fact of the two who are switched at birth, and the guilt of murder by the one who is Tom, but is not Tom.  The places of these individuals are set right, the one who has lived as a slave all his life is given his inheritance and set free, and the one who has been the imposter is, in the end, sold down the river.<br />Now one must wonder what this book would have meant to readers in the day it was first written?  Would it be likely that they would see that justice had been served?  The truly white heir restored to his place, and the one who should have been a slave returned to his place under the lash in hard labor?  Would they have wondered that there could be so little difference between the ones who should have such different roles in life that everyone could be fooled by thier being switched?<br />As I read it, I wondered, as I have many times when reading works by Twain, how there could have been such an injustice as slavery in existance.  I also wondered at the fact that someone who was in all appearences white could still be a slave.  You would think that at the very least, slave holders would have been able to sympathise with the apparently white slave, and think upon this.  Perhaps this was one step on the road to the ebolishment of slavery?<br />I would have liked to read more of the lives of these two, now returned to the roles to which they were born, but the story ends too soon.  Still, a very good story and one which should be read.lson uncovers the fact of the two who are switched at birth, and the guilt of murder by the one who is Tom, but is not Tom.  The places of these individuals are set right, the one who has lived as a slave all his life is given his inheritance and set free, and the one who has been the imposter is, in the end, sold down the river.<br />Now one must wonder what this book would have meant to readers in the day it was first written?  Would it be likely that they would see that justice had been served?  The truly white heir restored to his place, and the one who should have been a slave returned to his place under the lash in hard labor?  Would they have wondered that there could be so little difference between the ones who should have such different roles in life that everyone could be fooled by thier being switched?<br />As I read it, I wondered, as I have many times when reading works by Twain, how there could have been such an injustice as slavery in existance.  I also wondered at the fact that someone who was in all appearences white could still be a slave.  You would think that at the very least, slave holders would have been able to sympathise with the apparently white slave, and think upon this.  Perhaps this was one step on the road to the ebolishment of slavery?<br />I would have liked to read more of the lives of these two, now returned to the roles to which they were born, but the story ends too soon.  Still, a very good story and one which should be read.	2003-07-24
US	50429811	R22979XT3UMD6G	0141312424	289651761	My Side of the Mountain	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A memorable treatice on simple living	It's been years since I first read this book when I was about 12, but I still remember with clarity this delightfull tale of a boy from the city who decides to leave to find a better life for himself.<br />Much of this reads as a how-to guide for a survivalist, learning to make a home, build a fire, how to forage and hunt, how to tan leather, and the trials and challenges associated with this lifestyle.  We read of Sam as he faces these chalenges and learnes to cope with them to continue his chosen lifestyle.  I was inspired as a young teen to learn more about all the concepts within this book, and learned enough that it made my camping experiences much more fun as I tried out some of the concepts like making a fishook from whittled twigs and bark(I think I needed more practice though, I didn't catch anything).<br />My Side of the Mountain shaped how I think about life, and is part of the reason I ultimately chose to live frugally and simply today, and am working towards having a sustaiable garden and small livestock.  This is a book I plan to read again even as an adult, and will be happy to pass it on to my children when they are old enough to read at this level.<br />If you like the survival theme, you may also enjoy \\"Tunnel in the Sky\\" by Robert A. Heinlein, which is a sci-fi version of survival in the wilderness.	2003-07-18
US	50429811	R1724OBEVXQSN7	0671797042	636423463	Sins of Commission (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 29)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Emotional Turmoil threatens the Enterprise	The Enterprise is sent to aid a planet who's enviromental problems are on the verge of wiping out the inhabitants through starvation and exposure to lethal polutants.  The Enterprise starts up humanitarian aid, and soon discovers the situation is much worse than they were origionally led to belive.<br />Soon after begining thier mission, a tour ship, Captained by an old family friend of Worf's comes into the system as a part of thier sightseeing.  On board are several creatures from an extreemly alien species who are emotion brodcasters.  When an explosion cripples the tour ship and all hands must be evacuated to the Enterprise, one of the aliens dies, leaving four very emotionally brodcasting creatures who begin to adversly affect crew performance.<br />Now, those on the Enterprise have thier mission threatened amidst emotional turmiol which affects thier ability to function and complete thier mission.  A decent story.<br />I do think more attention could have been paid to the struggle on the planet, and the charachters weren't portraied well(espically Worf and Dianna) even before the Sli arrived and started making everyone behave abnormally.	2003-07-17
US	50429811	RXN98UQZLAEMS	1852864265	12657335	Nightshade (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Worf becomes an ambassador for the first time	Captain Picard, Dianna Troi, and Lutenant Worf are on a mission to Oriana to negotiate a peace treaty between waring factions on the planet, who are finally becoming convinced that if they don't find peace soon, they will all be doomed to die along with thier ravaged planet.<br />Soon after the away team beams down, the Enterprise recives a distress call and leaves the team on the planet while Riker leads the Enterprise on a rescue mission.<br />Now alone, things soon take a bad turn as the Peace delegation discovers the terrible things which war has done to the planet, and to the people through the long two hundred year war. Picard is arrested when someone is killed by poision in the first peace talk gathering. Worf and Troi must now invistigate the murder to clear thier Captain's name or he will be executed in three days time.<br />This was a good book, a quick, enjoyable read. This is Worf's first need to be a diplomat, and at the point it was written in the series this was a nearly absurd thought, most espically to Worf. However, you may also be interrested in a book &quot;Diplomatic Implausibility&quot; which is in the timeframe after Worf has served on DS9 and has actually become an ambassador.	2003-07-14
US	50429811	R741IDNXZ2YL7	0553255193	604311590	Emergence	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fun, page turning, adventure on more than one level	While reading this I was strongly reminded of R.A. Heinlein's Juvies and some of his better works(espically in the writing, very like what was in \\"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress\\", there is even mention of 'Tanstaafl' at one point).  This was a thoroughly enjoyable read, fast-paced, thoughtfull, and exciting post apocaliptic novel.  There are twists to the plot which forse the protaginist, a plucky, funny, but calculated and practical prodigy of an 11 year old girl, into situations you wouldn't think possible at the begining of the book.<br />This is a great book for teens and adults alike.  If you've read and enjoyed this book, and haven't yet discovered the works of R.A. Heinlein, you deffinitly need to look him up.	2003-07-11
US	50429811	RATE8A6ISA7U8	0140286780	201332264	Your Money or Your Life: Transforming Your Relationship with Money and Achieving Financial Independence	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Not like the rest	If you're like me, you may have experienced frustration in reading other personal finance books.  Most seem to be written for people who already have great incomes, and just need advice on how to invest it.  'Your Money or your Life' is different.  It starts with your perspective on money, how you spend, how you save, how to spend less and save more and eventually turn that savings into investments.  Frugality is stressed over materalism, and living frugally is one of the first steps towards finantial independance.<br />I was glad to read this book and find that even though we're getting by on between 20K and 25K a year there are things we can do now to get finances working for us in a way which will build a strong future.  Examining your values, your real needs over wants, and which wants are really important to you are all steps in the program.  This book is a good one for those of you who are struggling to get by, and how to start where you're at.  I highly reccomend this book	2003-07-11
US	50429811	R1B84CDNMG4G2R	0671883410	654723620	Debtors' Planet (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 30)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good story, albiet not quite charachter accruate	Debtors Planet is a good story involving a certain Mr Offenhouse(remember the episode in which the Enterprise found a space capsule with several frozen people from the 20th century on it?) who has now found he has a knack for dealing with the Ferengi.<br />A planet has progressed exceddingly fast in it's technology, raising concerns with the federation and so the Enterprise is dispatched with Ambassador Offenhouse as Ferengi presence has been detected.  The author did a good job of fleshing out this charachter who was only a one timer in the series.<br />The plot thickens into a prety good story as the investigation moves on.  A few cavets; Worf, Dianna Troi, and Riker aren't portraied well in many places in the story.  Secondly, the author takes a bit too much travel into explaining past episodes, many of which don't have much to do with the story at all(i.e. Wesley Crushers incident at Starfleet Academy).  Thirdly, some sections of the book read like a conversation which may have been taken from a physics or Astronomy textbook, but then there are glaring errors in some aspects of Astronomy and scientific areas.  Because of these reasons I can't really give this book four stars, but don't let that stop you from reading this enjoyable TNG novel.	2003-07-06
US	50429811	R1RU8NE3916VLU	0812511069	947189321	Destiny's Road	Books	2	9	12	N	N	It had some potential	Destiny Road is an interresting outline of what could have been a really great story with some charachter development, plot development, and some real feeling.  However, it reads as a technical/historical account of someone who wanders along a road on the planet Destiny, and meets people in different places and experiences some hardships.  I never really felt I could connect with any of the charachters.<br />The plot lacks any real momentum, and the story jumps in places, near the end a full 27 years, during which time he marries, has children, and a stable life.....but when his wife of 16 years dies from a tragic accident, he gets on with things and finds someone new to 'rub up with' in a matter of days.  Finding the 'great terrible secret' of Destiny life is little more than the protaginist surfing the net on a library computer and reading entries on various topics.  No real conflict, no real suspense.  There are also inconsistancies in the book which others have pointed out in many places.  It's books like these which reinforce the idea of using the library to read books, and only buying the ones I really want to keep.	2003-06-30
US	50429811	R1X8L1BAJWFQID	0345324412	797995088	Have Space Suit, Will Travel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Determination is what it takes	Have Spacesuit Will Travel is a fun book about a high school senior getting caught up in an adventure accidentally.  His desire to go to the moon leads him to enter an advertising contest in hopes he will win his way(this after his dad says 'ok, sure, you can go to the moon son' and then Kip discovers it's just up to him to figure out how).<br />The storyline has been covered in several other reviews here, so I'll not cover that.  Instead, what I gleaned from this book was that this is something excellent for jr high/high school students to read (well, anyone really, but it would be most benificial to this age group), and I'll make sure my kids do so when they're at that age(along with a stack of Heinlein's other 'juvies') as it really makes mathmatics and science sound like fun.  I was even inspired to pull out my husbands ancient sliderule and figure out how to use it(ok, that part will take some more work).  This also demonstrates the virtues of courage, self-reliance, honor and perserverance.<br />The story is quite entertaining, and quaint in it's 50's style setting.  A fun book which should be in any sci-fi fans collection, and an excellent gift for any young person you may know.	2003-06-29
US	50429811	R3M0J4D3YJFVGG	0380765276	649658352	The Dragons of the Rhine (Wodan's Children)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Tragedy of the Volsung and Burgund lines	In Dragons of the Rhine the second portion of the ancient tale is told with intense emotion and detail.  While the story is slightly different in how certain things are carried out than in the eddic writings, it's still an excellent novel which brings the story alive in a way which can be enjoyed by all in this century.<br />Diana Paxon truly delves deep into each of the charachters and thier reasoning and emotions so that each side of this tragedy is understood even while the playing out is heartbreaking.  In this book, as in the last, I still found myself thinking there could be another way out, a hope still left although I've read this story in many forms many times before.  The tension of each moment is fully played out so one could see possible alternatives, though fate must lead the charachters on to what the Norns have woven for them.<br />A version of the story I'd reccomend, along with the more ancient tellings of this story.	2003-05-07
US	50429811	R3UX99D4KF32TQ	0803727887	465789091	The Mysterious Tadpole: 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Tadpole which didn't become a frog!	This story was a favorite of mine as a child, and now I have the oppourtunity to read it to my own kids.<br />Louis recives a tadpole in a jar for his birthday one year from his eccentric uncle in Scotland, who happens to live near Loch Ness.  Louis named his tadpole Alphonse, fed him cheeseburgers, taught him to fetch, do other tricks, and Alphonse becomes a great pet.  However, he has grown too big for the apartment in which Louis and his parents live and Louis must think of something to help Alphonse have a place to live or he'll have to go to the zoo!<br />With the help of the local librarian, and Alphonse, Louis comes up with a plan to raise money to buy the parking lot near his building for a big swiming pool for Alphonse, and all the neighborhood kids to swim and play in.<br />A happy ending, just in time for Louis's next birthday, and another mysterious present from Uncle McAlister! Great for kids ages four to seven.	2003-05-02
US	50429811	R1ZBKIRM3WM6JS	0380765268	497704999	The Wolf and the Raven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The ancient legend re-told in fine form	The tale of Sigfried the dragon slayer has been told and re-told for over 1,500 years in many forms.  This modern re-telling brings the world of fifth century germania to life in a way which is a pleasure to read.<br />Diana Paxon has woven the threads of the story and embellished as all storytellers do in a way which clothes the tale with intrigue and power of magic and wyrd.  The authors background as a respected teacher of magic and sedir in the norse tradition shine through in the truth of her descriptions of the power, magic, and deities.  The knowledge of runes and herbs in the book aren't just fiction, and reading this book can be a lesson in learning the ways of Wodan.<br />Although I have read this story in other forms from eddic poetry to other novelizations, and know the tragic end this tale will become, I still find myself hoping for Sigdrifia and Sigfried.  You will find more focus on the woman's world of ancient magic than in other re-tellings, but it's a facet to the story which gives another perspective to the depth of the Saga of the Volsungs.	2003-04-21
US	50429811	RJBYZNDHBLZF8	0684837005	788338147	Living Lean	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A balanced, common sense approach to eating and lifestyle	This book details a balanced approach to eating to lose weight, with focus placed on cutting out the fat, and eating a good balance of protiens, carbs, and fibrous vegetables.  In eating six smaller meals a day, you can speed up your metabolism and with exercise speed it up a bit more.  The program is about getting your muscles in shape, and increasing muscle mass so you burn more calories both while exercising and while resting.<br />However, It is worth noting that if you're on a tight grocery budget, and a tight schedule this program is nearly impossible to carry out.  Boneless, skinless chicken breasts are expensive, as are the other ultra lean meats you need to eat.  Preparing all the meals is time consuming, and if you've got a whole family to prepare meals for, well, it's a bit much.<br />Even though I do have that problem with the book, I reccomend it highly to someone who's willing to comit the time, money and effort to eating right and exercising.  This is a healthy, and balanced approach.	2003-04-04
US	50429811	R8226LN6V84PV	0671568086	602280106	The Death of Princes (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 44)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Predictable Plots, Bad Charachterization, inconsistant	Death of Princes is two stories, both rather mediocre on thier own, and even more mediocre mixed together.  When two stories are together as in this book, it's nice to at least have the book edited in an every-other-chapter format, unfourtunatly, there is no telling where the book will flip from one story to the next.<br />There are also several inconsistancies.  In the begining of the book, a refrence is made to one planet, and the fact that the low gravity and *thick* atmosphere make it easier for the bird decended inhabitants to fly.  However, when an away team beams down, refrence is made to the uncomfortable moment in adjusting to the *thin* atmosphere, as if one were stepping out onto a mountaintop.<br />In order to move the plot along, the author convieniently forgets about technology avalible, such as transporters and communicators, at key moments.  Technical plausibility consistant with the show and technology does not exist in this book.<br />As others have noted, Dianna Troi is not Dianna Troi at all....I'm not sure who took her body over, but she speaks and acts totally unlike herself, as do many of the charachters.  Riker and Barclay even *gloat* at the evil bad guys towards the end of the book.  In both stories the 'bad guys' are just too illogical, or too evil to be belivable.<br />There are far better books out there in the TNG series to read.	2003-04-01
US	50429811	RN1XXX7OBDDU	0671011596	116055725	The Forgotten War (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"I wanted a war, and for my sins, the gods gave it to me"	On a mission to negotiate a peace treaty with the warlike Tarn, an historic discovery is made of the remains of two ships, one Federation, and one Tarn, both destroyed in battle 204 years earlier.  As they invistigate the find, they discover that the decendants of these two ships still fighting the war from two centuries ago.<br />The Tarn ambassador beams down to the Tarn forces, presumably in an attempt to negotiate a ceace-fire agreement, while Commander Riker and Dr. Janice Eardman (an old flame from the academy recently posted to the ship at the time of the arrival of the Tarn delegate) beam down to the Federation forces to do the same on that side.<br />Riker and Eardman find a society based on honor, loyalty, hardship and a fight to survive at all costs.  Tecnology has reverted to a mid twentieth century level, with machine guns, combuston engines, and napalm.  These lost federation decendants are reluctant to put down arms after so long.<br />Each side wants nothing more than to obliterate the other side.  Picard comes up with a creative soloution to this problem.  This is a quick and good read.	2003-02-26
US	50429811	R37VRP85091IJB	0671042114	81156393	Tooth and Claw (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 60)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	An Entertaining adventure with a diplomatic twist	The Enterprise embarks on a mission to negotiate use of star charts of an area of space riddled with gravitational anomalies, which are held by some rather 'prickly' types who wish for the Enterprise and her senior officers to have the &quot;honor&quot; of taking the son of the planet's ruler on a coming-of-age cerimonial hunt to harvest a trophy in a protected wild land.<br />These star charts are essential to speed up evacuation of a planet who's sun is going nova, and every minute which passes means more lives lost.<br />The mission on the planet Fandre soon becomes a desperate fight to survive when the shuttle crashes due to technical failure.  The fact that the Legacy preserve is protected by technology dampning fields, as well as force fields which can only have openings at short intervals means that getting any outside help is nearly impossible.<br />Meanwhile, diplomatic negotiations for access to the star charts are continued, and discontinued amid social face-saving practices of these people.  Finally, Picard sees no choice but to change his diplomatic tactics to speed the process of getting the star charts.<br />There were some minor technical problems I had with the book but which didn't impeed enjoyment of the story too much.  It's an enjoyable book about coming of age, and seeing the world around you for what it is, as well as a survavialist adventure.	2003-02-20
US	50429811	R97PXDXK26S4U	0060951672	527945628	Sports Massage for Peak Performance	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Written for the Layman athlete	Sports Massage For Peak Performance is a manual written for athletes who wish to use massage to enhanse thier physical performance in athletics.  It's written in easy to understand laymens terms rather than medical and technical language.  The main focus is on self-massage with Sweedish techniques and streching, with some attention paid to massage with a partner.  Black and White pictures demonstrate the massage moves fairly clearly, and text sections clearly explain what to massage, and what the massage is doing to the muscles.<br />This book, unlike similar works for the layman, covers conditions in which you should *not* massage right at the start, which is important.<br />*Massage Therapists*: If you are a Massage Therapist, this can be a good book to reccomend to your clients who wish to use massage between professional sessions.  However, all the material contained within would have been basic study in any massage school, so not something you would need.	2003-02-14
US	50429811	R1DUU2IUGZDJCD	0072903325	639208069	Atlas of Skeletal Muscles	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Clarity of display	Atlas of Skeletal muscles is a basic book on anatomy which clearly illustrates each of the skeletal muscles in line drawing form.  Bones to which the muscles attach are highlighted so you can clearly see point of origin and insertion.  Small text section beneath or beside each illustration demonstrates Origin, Insertion, Action and connecting nerve.<br />It's spiral binding allows the book to lay flat when needed for ease of study.  A basic, beginner book for students of anatomy, and one which I would reccomend.  It was a textbook of mine in Massage Therapy school.	2003-02-10
US	50429811	R2NS7I2RIS43S2	0345414004	997219030	Friday	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Somewhat unfocused, but enjoyable read	I don't think Friday is up to par with Heinleins works, but it's still a decent book, and fun to read.  It is a bit rough, as others have mentioned.<br />Friday is a courier, and is one of the best.  She is specially trained to react with deadly force when her subconsious trigers her to do so to protect herself and her messages.  These mental diciplines allow her to react with indeffrence and tactical stratigy to a gang rape, and other indignities.  She's also a genitically engineered person, and is considered by most to be an un-person, even by herself.  Her upbringing was one which taught her she was unworthy of being considered a real human, and so could never understand, or fit in with, real humans.  In her journey she is finally able to come to terms, years later, with her status, and realise she really is human.  But, her self-degridation is painfull to read at times.<br />This is also a treatice on racism.  Although I found the level of racism to be unrealistic, I have a hard time beliving that racism would progress to this extreem condition in the future.<br />There is a high level of casual sex in this book as well, though not in detail.  Friday sees sex as a fun activity, to be used to let off steam, to give a 'thank-you' to someone who has done her a favor, or even to not be rude by refusing.<br />An interresting read, some food for thought, but not one of the 'greats' of Heinlein.  The main theme of the story is Friday trying to find a place to belong, where she can be accepted for herself.  In the end, I think this shows the humanity in all of us.  Don't we all just wish to find love an acceptance for who we are?	2003-02-09
US	50429811	R3P1JNA91SV5M4	0394800915	36848302	Dr Seuss's Sleep Book	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Yawn is quite catching, you see, like a cough.	This is a fun bedtime book, starting with a little bug who yawns so wide you can look down his neck, and showing the yawn spreading throughout the land, and then everyone getting ready for bed and going to sleep, and other related sleepy trivia.  The rythm is sleep, and yawn inducing.  I honestly can't get through this book without yawning about every page.  But, since a yawn is catching, my little ones are soon yawning so wide you can look down thier necks!<br />This is an excellent book to have as a part of your sleepytime routine for your child.  Dr. Seuss certainly had a gift for silly, poetic stories which children all seem to love.	2003-02-09
US	50429811	RR8A5ISHC14Z	0345342445	546810848	Citizen of the Galaxy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Timeless lessons	Thorby's beginings are shrouded in mystery, lost somewhere on the long road seared into him by many masters, and many lashes. He knows only that he is about to be brought to yet another problem in a long road of problems, as he is on the slavers selling block once again. An old beggar takes notice of him, and since no one else wants to bid on the beaten and bedraggled youth, the price is [reasonable] enough that even a beggar can purchace him.<br />This is a change in his fourtune which will take him on a long road of knowledge and a raise in status. His new master adopts him as a son, and does his best to care for him. Thorby learns the trade of a beggar, and runs errands for 'pop' who isn't quite like other beggars.....teaching Thorby to speak and read in several languages, advanced mathmetics, basic history, and what morals can be passed on while living as a poor beggar.<br />Until pop's death, at which time he delivers a message to a ship in port which Baslim the Cripple has instructed him to do in case of his death. He is adopted by this ship's family, and becomes on of them...a tribe of people, proud of thier heritage and elitist freedom. But, once again he must loose all which has become dear to him and move on to another fate, to find his true heritage.<br />Many lessons are contained within Citizen of the Galaxy. Learning to become one with the culture you are in, what 'family' can mean, learning to fight for what is right, and finally, learning that fighting for what is right may not nessicarily be on the front lines in the battle against slavery, but can be far away, buried in legal mazes of businesses who's leaders may not be aware of what evils are burried in the depths of thier empire.<br />Now, in our current age of a battle against terrorism, this lesson is espically apparent. The evils which lurk across the globe can have connections to us at home, through finantial ties, and levels upon hiden levels of business fronts and drug cartels. All levels, from executive office to the streets to forign lands must have those who are vigilant against a threat.rom executive office to the streets to forign lands must have those who are vigilant against a threat.	2003-02-08
US	50429811	R3OTSPF83HANT1	0785322795	99951619	365 Favorite Brand Name Hamburger, Meat Loaves, Chilies & More	Books	2	1	1	N	N	It looked like a good idea......	But once I bought it and started using the recipies I was dissapointed.  The pictures all look great, but I'm afraid that's where the greatness ends.  There are a few good recipies in here, but the decent recipies were things I already could do with hamburger.  I bought it for the 'innovative' and 'new' recipies, hoping that I could use hamburger for more creative meals since we're on a grocery budget.  Every recipie I tried came out mushy and bland, even following the directions carefully.<br />If your only method of cooking with hamburger currently is with hamburger helper, this book may be of help to you.  But, if you already cook fairly frugally, and can make some decent hamburgers, chilis, spagetti sauces, a caserole or two and tacos/burritos with hamburger you probably will not be able to put this book to use.	2003-02-07
US	50429811	RS4365BWLZOWZ	1859580149	630083060	Norsemen Myths and Legends (Myths & Legends)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An easy to read version of the eddas and sagas	Myths of the Norsemen by H A Guerber is a good book for those who are sometimes stumped by the more archaic language of the poetic versions of the Eddas, and the Sagas.  Not all Asatruar can be scholars and linguists, and this is a decent book for the average layman.  I would, however, reccomend that a person get several respected works to study norse mythology as this book does have some mistakes in the portrayal of the Gods and Goddesses.<br />For those who intend to teach Norse Mythology to thier children, this easy to read text can be ideal for reading to children.  A book I'd reccomend, with the understanding that this shouldn't be your only source.<br />--Reviewed by Rachel Watkins(rachel_e_w)	2003-02-06
US	50429811	R2N3IHXYHB4TGU	0671693646	974669063	A Rock and a Hard Place (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An entertaining and even thoughtfull read.....m	I'd probably give this book 3 and a half stars really.  It was enjoyable, but not quite four or five star material.  This is an early TNG, before Worf was expanded as a charachter byond the hulking mass of Klingon brute.  David's portrayals of the charachters are on target with the TV show at the time this book was written though, and the diolague and action were good.<br />An interresting plot, Riker is sent to investigate a city on a world in the process of being terraformed.  It just so happens his old running buddy from his hometown in Alaska is running the place.  In his place, starfleet command puts Commander Quinton Stone as a 'project' of sorts for Picard to straighten out.  He's got potential as an excellent captain someday, making decisions on instinct and quick wit and able to sort out incredibly complex and volatile situations.  However, everyone says he's nuts, he can't be trusted, can't follow orders, and seems on the edge of doing something dangerous at any moment.  His personal problems stem from a situation you'll have to read about to discover.<br />I did think it was somewhat implausable for starfleet to want to 'save' someone who was seen oftentimes as a dangerous and downright crazy individual, but that isn't too hard to put aside for the duration of the book to enjoy the read.	2003-02-05
US	50429811	R3HFP6YGO09V83	0743400518	452222728	2: Avatar Book Two (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Just the Begining	Avatar book two opens up new possibilities for the future of the trek book series.  Finally, books which are consistant with one another, and individual books build on a richer picture to continue an ongoing history.<br />I greatly enjoyed this book, it's well writen, the charachters portraied very well.  There are some incridibly tense situations as past personal histories are brought together, and new charachters brought in as well, including one very intriguing Commander Elias Vaugn.  Ezri Dax is more thoroughly explored as she comes to terms with the depth of meanings of being a joined Trill and the possibilities and consequences this brings for her.<br />Quark brings some humor to the story in an oh-so-Quarkish way.  Jake is on a mission alone to find his father, and I'm looking foward to the future book which explores this adventure.  For now, this is only the begining of a great new era in trek books.	2003-01-26
US	50429811	RNA4EETSXP99N	0375805613	754053510	The Monster at the End of This Book (Sesame Street) (Big Bird's Favorites Board Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	::sigh:: You turned the page! you're making a terrible mess	This is yet another wonderful book I had as a child and loved, and which is now loved by my children.  My little boy laughs as he turns page after page.....near the end he starts saying \\"Monster coming?\\"...and laughs some more.  He seems delighted with the messes being made as he turns page after page when grover begs him not to.  This is a great book for kids, one they'll want to read again and again.	2003-01-24
US	50429811	RZZQQM58GTO45	0394800230	741194812	A Fish Out of Water (Beginner Books)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A real winner with kids	My three year old son has loved this book to be read over and over and over since he was two.  The subject, combined with the pictures can help a child develop expressive language.  When the fish keeps getting bigger, and the boy goes through all that trouble trying to move his fish, Otto, into bigger and bigger containers, my son's eyes get big and he gasps and looks at me and says \\"Oh no!\\"<br />This is a delightfull tale of a little boy who feeds his fish too much, and the extremly silly, or dire(depending on your age how you see it) consequences.  In the end, the pet store owner comes to the rescue after the police and firemen have done thier part to try to help get the fish more comfortable.  A good lesson about listening to, and following instructions, and asking for help when you need it is within the story.	2003-01-24
US	50429811	RTPM13L4IQMY4	0743411838	220356746	2: Genesis Wave: Book Two (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The story continues	This pickes up only minutes after book one concludes.  I was glad to have it on hand to finish a very suspensfull cliffhanger.  This trillogy, however, seemes to suffer from 'Trillogy Syndrome'(seems many do) in that it starts with a bang, and then fizzles out in the second and third books.  There's a \\"sneak preview\\" of a chapter of book three at the end of this book, and just from that little bit seems to be streching it out for all it's worth, but losing momentum.<br />There are some great scenes with the Klingons, in fact, I belive the best part of the book is how Dr Braums, as captain of the Klingon vessle Hos, interacts with her crew, and the heroic actions of the Klingons she serves with.<br />Genisis Wave also gives more detail about the horror of what they're up against.....and how they are able to launch such an incredible attack when they've hardly been heard of previously.  Some conflict is also given when they show a more spiritual side of these creatures.<br />Also, it's important to note that the charachterising isn't really up to par, and it seems Captain Picard and Dianna Troi both have some flatness, and speak in a way that just doesn't seem to fit thier personalities.  Dianna does have a very important heroic part in all this though.  On a good note, Geordi is more thoroughly explored, and Data saves the day as he is the only one immune to the effect of the creatures.<br />Worth it to finish the trillogy, I'll be reading the next book ASAP as well.  A good, albiet not great story.	2003-01-21
US	50429811	R1W9FSH5D4IXY6	074341182X	662278591	1: The Genesis Wave Book One (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A wave of terror sweeps across the galaxy	An intense page turner, this book is the first of three about a terrible menace, the Genisis Wave.  It's creator has been kidnapped, and six months later the wave is unleashed.  On the first planet in it's path, Leah Braums is testing a new experimental radiation suit.....she is inside when the wave passes over the planet, changing everything around her and killing billions of people in an instant.  She makes a mission to swiftly move before it's path, telling someone who will listen to save lives.<br />She is found by the Enterprise, after picking up a few survivors, one who has information about what they're up against.  Soon after, they race the clock, and must share this secret information with the Romulans and Klingons who all pull in to help with the rescue efforts, although thier intentions aren't entirely benevolant.<br />This first book leaves you hanging only minutes before the Genisis wave hits the planet, with Starfleet personell, including Geordi LaFordge, on the planet with some special shelters based on the ratiaion suit design.  To add to some mystery, another vessel, which Dr. Crusher has taken command of begins behaving erratically, going against orders.  I'm glad I had the second book on hand right then!<br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable read, and a well thought out story, however, I don't really care for the three book delivery method, a giant novel would have been better.	2003-01-19
US	50429811	RKX5BF81W8ZZI	0451166760	344110456	Beyond this Horizon	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Can't belive I'm rating a Heinlein book two stars	As a Heinlien fan, I try to read everything that comes across my path by him.  I'm rarely dissapointed.  This is one of those rare times.  The story is interresting enough, the science  and society and ecconomics well explained, but there were just too many flaws.<br />Heinlein has often been accused of writing very two-dementional women, in a very sexist way.  Generally, I can see that point in some of his other works, but it's not that bad, geenrally just a viewpoint of someone living in his time.  In this, the females are nearly brainless....while given praise by the male charachters for thier feminine qualities, it comes across as if women are just silly-headed and weak, existing only for man's pleasure and entertainment.  Any attempt by a woman to be \\"strong\\" is frowned upon, and she's quickly put into her place,given a playfull spanking by a guy who disaproves of her unfeminine actions.<br />The main male charachters are rather dull, so much so that I actually kept mixing them up as to who was who.  Rather confusing, and soemthing I typically don't have a problem with in other books.  The plot had some good potential, but suffered in excess from Heinleins tendancies to lecture through his charachters conversations to each other.  This is present in other books of his, but is generally much better done that it was here.<br />Alas, in the end I couldn't finish the book I was so bored with it.  I'll make an attempt once more in the future to pick it up again and try harder, but this is the first time I've had to put forth an effort to finish one of Heinlein's works once I've started it.  If you haven't read the works of R.A. Heinlein don't let this be your first one.  Appriciate some of his better works like \\"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress\\", or a good juvie of his \\"Tunnel in the Sky\\", or \\"Starship Troopers\\" before delving deeper into Heinlein.	2003-01-15
US	50429811	R3FSM9V08CNZM9	0671733893	912995167	Q-In-Law (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 18)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious!  Fun to read	I first read this book almost ten years ago, and recently decided to add it to my library once again(it was confiscated by my mom for 'innapropriate material' when I was 15).  This is one of the most memorable star trek:TNG books out there for me.  A Light hearted, downright silly at times, and with just enough serious drama in the plot that it pulls you in, the story is something of a romantic situation comedy.<br />A wedding is to be hosted on the Enterprise, and Q shows up as a guest.  If that's not tense enough, Lwaxana Troi meets him, forgets her obsession with Picard, and is thoroughly enthralled with Q.  I'll save the rest for you to read!  Peter David truly expanded the boundries of the star trek novels with this book.	2003-01-14
US	50429811	R1JBYMLG0GW03A	0816029091	524310189	Encyclopedia of Gods: Over 2,500 Deities of the World	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Extensive listing of deities, but.....	This is a handy book to have around because of the quantity of deities which it lists, and for getting a basic idea of the deities(pantheon/general theme as in associated with wealth, prosperity, sensuality, ect.)  The quantity is what got this book three, rather than two stars for my vote.<br />However, I would not reccomend this book for any sort of in-depth study. Simply going on the information contained about the norse deities(the pantheon I follow) there were too many mistakes and too little information. It seems to even say Freya and Frigga are the same goddess.	2003-01-10
US	50429811	R1272HY9ON9NIL	0671774832	730207011	Section 31: Abyss (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A deep look at Julian Bashir	Abyss kept me going til the end, and did something which many star trek novels do not do.  Perhaps this is a theme which is becoming more common(I hope), I found it tied into several other books of the other star trek series quite well.  Books like these greatly enhanse the rich tapestry of the Star Trek universe.<br />Julian Bashir must go deep into the Badlands to a secluded planet where Dr. Ethan Lockgen, another genetically enhanced individual like Bashir, is producing Jem'Hadar soldiers.  An evil, and disturbed madman, he belives that his superior intelect can bring in a new utopian era for the federation once it is 'cleansed' of inferior species who would stand in the way of his vision of the future.<br />When Bashir and his comrads arrive at the secluded world, he and Ezri Dax are taken prisoner, while Commander Ro and Taran'Atar work from outside the compound along with a local community of inhabitants who have suffered horribly at the hands of the Jem'Hadar and Dr. Lockgen.  Lockgen is trying to convince Bashir of the beautiful vision of the future which is his, and it almost seems as if Bashir is tempted, for a while at least.<br />To find out the rest you'll need to read the book!  Abyss is a riviting and thoughtfull read.	2003-01-09
US	50429811	R3PKIU4D7TG3T7	0785814256	955704791	Jack London: Stories of Adventure	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An Era of Bravery and Adventure	This book has a number of short stories of Jack London, as well as his novel, The Game.  Each story paints a pictire of a time long gone.  Adventure, bravery, and honor are the values of the men of these stories.  In a harsh time, the men and women had to be resilliant, and maintain thier cheer in the face of hardship.<br />The tales are a window into the past, and Jack London, one of the greatest writers of his time, captured the essense of life in the frontier, on the sea, and in the hearts and minds of the people of the past.  Although only a century past, this era is as far from our modern society as the hard days of Egil Skaligrimson(one of the first Icelendic Vikings in the new world) or Ponce DeLeon.<br />These sorts of stories should be read by everyone, espically students of history and literature.  Bravery in the face of hardship is something which we all should understand even in our comparitivly easy and rich times.  We should attempt to capture the essence of this bravery and courage and pass it on for the future.	2003-01-09
US	50429811	R8AH0CJELSS1V	0671787551	280145491	Reunion (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Murder Mystery on the Enterprise	Suspensfull, well written, and entertaining; Reunion brings the old crew of Picards former command, the Stargazer, to the enterprise for a mission to the homeworld of one of Picards former officers, who has the fourtune of becoming the ruler of his homeworld.  However, this joyous reunion is soon to become a nightmare, when someone is trying to kill members of the old stargazer crew.<br />Finding the killer will be a challenge, as they all have issues of one sort or another.  To top it off, they find themselves in another emergency which threatens the entire ship, a subspace phenomena from which they must escape.<br />Suspensfull to the end, a great read.  Only one cavet, at times I did feel the technical information was a bit dumbed down.  A common patern was to explain the problem technically, then again explain in a simpler technical language, then once again in a very simple maner.  While all accurate, it got a little annoying after a while, as if the author were attempting to make it so a sixth grader could understand it easily(perhaps?)  Dispite this flaw, it is still an excellent mystery which captures the spirit of the Enterprise and Stargazer crews quite well.	2003-01-06
US	50429811	R9AJ5NUOAT08W	0870448900	5423836	Mammals (National Geographic Nature Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Childrens introduction to Mammals	This is an excellent introduction for children about Mammels.....primates, predators, whales, rodents, marsupials and more are explained in words, pictures and drawings.  My three year old has used this book and can identify most of the animals within, and we talk about what the animals are doing, how they eat, and other special things about the animals.  This shows animals hunting, eating, homes which they live in, how they care for thier babies and more! Great for kids one year to five years!	2003-01-03
US	50429811	R2XY58HC3NIFT6	0671785540	196342352	Diplomatic Implausibility (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 61)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Klingon Novel	Containing an excellent portrayal of Worf, this novel manages to pull together a number of loose ends of his life after the war, and coming to terms with the death of Jadsia.  He is now a diplomat for starfleet, and is sent to resolve a conflict of a world which is under Klingon rule, much to the dismay, and anger of this worlds inhabitants.  His old friends on the Enterprise make an apperance as they escort him to his mission, but do not take part in the mission byond that.  Worf must manage to pull off a settlement which is agreeable to the Klingons, who will accept nothing less than Klingon rule continuing, and the factions on the world who will accept nothing less than freedom, and Klingons leaving thier planet for good.  Among this the constant harrasment by other Klingons and challenges of his honor are present.  A good read.	2002-12-28
US	50429811	R3VWBT45HAK3FJ	0380976404	700939540	Return to Mars	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Riviting read.....very &quot;Red&quot; perspective	&quot;Red Perspective&quot; meaning from that of one who belives that Mars should be kept in it's pristine condition, untouched by man(except for a select few scientists) for all time to protect whatever life mayor may not be there.<br />However, although I personally disagree with that perspective, I found this to be a riviting book which I couldn't put down.  Yet another mission to mars, and Jamie finally gets to see if his cliff dwelling is just a figment of his imagination, or ruins left by ancient martians, long dead.  This mission is also fraught with accidents, which one of the crew belives is a sabouteur.  Almost unthinkable in the close-knit group of scientists.<br />Mars is the next frontier to be explored, mapped, and colonised(I hope) in this century.  Until we get there, reading an excellent account such as this, and others give food for thought of what to do once we get there.	2002-12-27
US	50429811	R2T6JKFCH2BA1B	0671003461	955843525	Pathways (Star Trek Voyager)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Group Therapy?	This is one of those books I enjoyed, but still found serious fault with at the same time.  The point of the story is to tell the backgrounds of some of the main charachters of voyager.  In that, it does quite well.  I found the stories of each of the charachters to be well writen and invigorating.<br />However, the way it was presented.....the crew captured and held in a prison camp, and to pass the time they tell the stories of thier life which led to becoming part of the Voyager crew.  It just doesn't seem right.  Some technical problems as well, I seriously doubt the method used to escape would have been possible in those conditions.<br />Secondly, it was a bit on the sappy side in the transitions between stories.  I was almost expecting a big group hug in parts.  Thirdly, some of the stories don't match up with the series.....perhaps the book was written before those episodes were made?  Dispite these problems, it was an enjoyable read which gives insight into the crew of the Voyager.	2002-12-27
US	50429811	R3JE8UYBOF2WG4	0671793772	67371077	Dark Mirror (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intense action story	This is an excellent, well-written story of trying to get home from an alternate universe.  I espically appriciated the attention to technical detail and keeping in line with the show, and with the ST:TNG technical manual.  This author has obviously researched extensivly before writing this book.<br />We watch..(read about)...Captain Picard, Councelor Troi, and Commander LaFordge as they switch places with thier counterparts, and must avoid dectection or face horrible consequences.  We travel with them as they contemplate the true horror of the possibility that they could have turned out so different, yet still be so similar in this alternate universe.  A truly riviting story right to the end.	2002-12-27
US	50429811	R1V5LVS1BRKEKN	0486272737	432887419	Favorite Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	"All are the Architects of Fate...."	\\"Working in these walls of time,<br />Some with massive deeds and great,<br />Some with Ornaments of Rhyme\\"<br />These are the lines of the first verse of a powerfully written poem \\"The Builders\\" which, to me, seems to be about living a moral, honorable life on which to build a future for all of society.  Such powerfull and truthfull words to live by.<br />On a whim, I recently pulled this book from my bookshelf to read(I have a copy in 'The Classic collectors edition' which I like mostly because it's prety decoration for my bookshelves.  As a child I learned \\"Paul Revere's Ride\\" in school, but never learned the full depth of Longfellow's works.  So refreshing are the realistic moralism of yesteryear, from a time when a persons works and deeds counted for something.<br />I was captivated by the brutality of \\"The Saga of king Olaf\\" as it recounted the brutal nordic kings' religious conquest of Scandanavia.  \\"Hiawatha's Song\\" swept me up into a tale of beauty of a time lost.  The poetry of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow is writen with a beauty and elegance and even excitement which conveys thier meaning in stunning clarity.  As I read \\"Paul Revere's Ride\\" for the first time in over a decade I found myself speaking in the rythm of the hoofbeats of that steed Paul Revere rode.<br />These historic poems are truly great, and should be read and cherished by all.	2002-12-05
US	50429811	R15TMC6LPFNMWI	0890091366	293517504	Our Family Tree	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Thorough for recording geneology in one place, has faults	This is a fill-in-the-blank style book with room to include a husband's and wifes ancestors and children as well as other relevant information.  However, in places it seems to include too much room for some things.....like a full page of lines for 'legal guardians' while only one line(quite small) for children of the husband or wife and thier siblings.  Since that page is next to the 'legal guardians' page I was at least able to make use of it for the run off of listing children of those with more than two kids.<br />It is a convenient book to take along to family gatherings to record information and fill in the blanks.  I think this is a good book to start recording family history and geneology, but I would prefer another book for a completed book.  In the meantime, I don't mind a few scratch-outs of mistakes in this one.<br />The Illustrations are early american/civil war era style.  Under the &quot;Religious Acticities&quot; section it shows a catholic baptism of a baby and a cathedral.  So, if you're not christian it doesn't really apply.	2002-11-26
US	50429811	R2542QR7QGIZOO	0812536460	62508441	King and Emperor (Hammer and the Cross, No 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interresting Mix of Religions	The rich tapestry of the spirituality in this series, as well as the rich, accurate historical views and alternate histories continue to pull the reader within the realm of it's pages.  I found the interresting mix of religious viewpoints in this story intriguing.  Harrison has done his research in both history and religion quite well.  This also brings to light some more disturbing aspects of various religions.<br />This book brings the wonderful trilogy to a close in a way that is satisfying. Shef and his ex-slave companions, as well as his viking companions head to the mediteranian region to seek a flying man in Shef's never-satisfied search for knowledge.<br />The ending wasn't quite what I was expecting of the trillogy, but is still a good one.	2002-11-23
US	50429811	RJSV7OLUPKPFG	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Generation of Native Martians	Green Mars brings in the next generation of martians, most we meet are of Hiroko's test tube brood. This is the generation which has been raised to take thier place in Mars as leaders, shaping Mars's politics, culture and trade. Politics are discussed in this book in closer detail, and the real motives behind the forces and influences on Mars are given explination.<br />As with Red Mars, the powerfull descriptions and setting enable you to visualise a new world as it would be seen. The changes taking place on the planet are noticable, and enable a dramatic escape at the climax of the book in the midst of war.<br />However, the trillogy, which is really one huge novel broken into three parts, is such a huge undertaking it begins to loose some of it's reality in this book. &quot;The Treatment&quot; enables the charachters to live for the full two centuries of this trilogy, and there are just so many charachters....I'm going to have to read it all again just to understand all the people involved. Some tediom sets in with this book, and more with the next. Still, as one who loves to dream about the day when we can live on Mars, I loved it.	2002-11-23
US	50429811	RS0LQCIJ8MSYJ	0141000031	846050314	The Sagas of Icelanders: (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Classic Norse Literature	The Sagas of the Icelanders is an excellent collection of nordic literature in an affordable and attractive book.  Heavily notated, with maps detailing the settings of some of the stories, this is an excellent way to get started in learning about the lives of the Scandanavian and Icelandic people.<br />The stories richly describe the heroism, psychology, strength, values and day to day life and decision making of the people within these tales.  This is inspiring and entertaining literature which should grace the shelf of anyone interested in the study of history, anthropology, epic literature, or norse religion.	2002-11-21
US	50429811	R2C3QQMBZTV6Z	0875422241	65961223	The Rites of Odin (Llewellyn's Teutonic Magick Series)	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A decent book, if taken in context for what it really is.	What this book is not: It is not a guide to the practice, traditions, beliefs, and lore of Asatru dispite it's cover and it's message. Plenty of Asatru newbies have had to go through a lot of rethinking and study to undo what they have picked up in this book. So, if you are Asatru, and somewhat new to the practice, and are interrested in learning the true meat of the ways of the Gods and Goddesses, the lore, the folk, ect. Do not get this book as your only, or your first refrence.<br />I would suggest other books, most espically the Eddas and Sagas, but also; \\"A book of Troth\\" by Edred Thorsson, or \\"Teutonic Religion\\" or \\"Teutonic Magic\\" both by Kveldulf Gundarsson, if you're interrested in Asatru..these modern books were also published by Llewellyn press, but now, like almost all serious works on Asatru, are no longer published(Hmmm, makes you wonder.)<br />It has a number of 'runes' for the gods and goddesses which I haven't seen elsewhere dispite practicing Asatru for nearly eight years now. These seem to be made-up designs, and have nothing to do with the actual practice of Asatru.<br />It does have one good point in it's favor in respect to Asatru though:  This is a book which manages to adress bringing family and children in place, which is something which I feel is often neglected in much Asatru and pagan literature.<br />What this book actually is: A decent guide for Norse Wicca. It gives a number of detailed rituals to perform, poems to recite, and has some good pitcures. It seems to have decent ideas on the practice of eclectic norse magic from what I know of other magical systems. It has a lot of romticised study of culture and virtue, which aren't bad in and of themselves....just as long as you're of the understanding that this is not strictly Asatru.	2002-11-20
US	50429811	R3NCW1QJEZNSVD	0345330137	387028775	Double Star	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The actor becomes his charachter	This is a book which I took a while getting around to read.  For some reason the subject matter, combined with the cheesy cover picture just didn't do anything for me.  However, since I'm on a current mission to read everything I can find by R.A. Heinlein I picked it up to read.  It was better than I was expecting.  <br />An actor is tricked into accepting an unlikely assignment.  Since he's out of work, and a bit desperate to do something he takes the job, and soon finds himself wishing he hadn't.  He is to take the place of a very public political figure.  In what comes to be the most challenging acting job of his life, he pulls the job off with flying colors.  Through his study of the charachter he must incorperate a personality which goes against his own in many ways, and in some ways he finds it almost more than he can handle.<br />Through the course of his job, Lorenzo finds himself pushed further into playing his role, making dicisions, becoming this person.  Like many novels by Heinlein, science fiction is merly the genre which allows situations to take place which otherwise could not....allows a normal guy to be faced with abnormal situations, and to grow because of this.  Because of this, his stories are not only highly entertaining, but introspective as well.  Double star examines what makes a person who he is by showing what is involved in assimilating another person and portraying them.  It shows how a person can make a consious choice to be who they want to be, and take on the nessicary responsibilities to become a more honorable person.  <br />I would reccomend this, as well as a number of Heinlein's novels as tools for a person who is working to better themselves and examine thier role in life.	2002-11-19
US	50429811	R3VEOEJQGA63M7	1580081991	587417299	Maxfield Parrish: The Poster Book	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great way to decorate on a budget	I just love the beautiful paintings of Maxfiled Parish and have wanted to place his works around my home for a long time. However, being on a tight budget makes this difficlut....at least it did until I got this book of posters.  While the prints aren't as large as I would idealy purchace, the quality and quantity for the price can't be beat.  This is a good, inexpensive way to get good-quality art onto your walls even on a pin-up poster budget.	2002-11-18
US	50429811	RH4ATW855QUPW	0345330129	439022701	The Door into Summer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A story of heart, honor, and love	This is a different kind of story.  It starts simple enough, a hard working inventor who trusts his business associates implicitly, who has a quirky cat(aren't they all!), and who falls for a legal loophole trap in which his trusted associates take his hard earned company away from him.  The science in this novel provides some twists to the story which even took me for surprise at the end.  Cat lovers will laugh with understanding at this strong-willed, full-of-personality feline who is the key to understanding the temporal anomoly.<br />The setting, personalities, conversations are all richly described and told in such great form.  While the ideas of 'Hired Girl' and other household robots didn't take off like this, the Jetsons-esque concept is very 50's, but fun to read. The time travel concept is something to think about, as well as the practicality problems associated with beliving the future will hold a better oppourtunity without making an investment to make it better.  A book I will read again.	2002-11-18
US	50429811	R3SD4YAH28J8MD	0380798913	358744158	Deadfall: An Alaska Mystery (Alaska Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Reading this book was a pleasure, but there were faults	I have to say that the quality of writing, the setting, action and details in this book were excellent, and the story well put together.  I guess I would give it 3 and a half stars really.  I haven't read the other books in the series, and this book is prompting me to find the others to read.  Dispite the problems with the book, the richly described setting and conflict pulled me in.<br />The book does something of a &quot;time jump&quot; in which every other chapter is devoted to charachters in seperate places, and are also seperated by a day.  I think this was a clumsy, and somewhat confusing way to let readers in on some facts.<br />Like other readers, I found the motive too far fetched to involve the people it did.  Why didn't the perp just go directly to the problem he had??  I would say more but I don't want to give it away.  Jessie took some actions which I keept thinking &quot;No! Don't do that!&quot; at her in the final conflict.  Also, Jessie's conflict of independance vs. commitment to Alex, was, I felt, an afterthought to the story which soured an otherwise good ending.	2002-11-14
US	50429811	R2MMS2B0D2L4LQ	0380798913	358744158	Deadfall: An Alaska Mystery (Alaska Mysteries)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Reading this book was a pleasure, but there were faults	I have to say that the quality of writing, the setting, action and details in this book were excellent, and the story well put together.  I guess I would give it 3 and a half stars really.  I haven't read the other books in the series, and this book is prompting me to find the others to read.  Dispite the problems with the book, the richly described setting and conflict pulled me in.<br />The book does something of a &quot;time jump&quot; in which every other chapter is devoted to charachters in seperate places, and are also seperated by a day.  I think this was a clumsy, and somewhat confusing way to let readers in on some facts.<br />Like other readers, I found the motive too far fetched to involve the people it did.  Why didn't the perp just go directly to the problem he had??  I would say more but I don't want to give it away.  Jessie took some actions which I keept thinking &quot;No! Don't do that!&quot; at her in the final conflict.  Also, Jessie's conflict of independance vs. commitment to Alex, was, I felt, an afterthought to the story which soured an otherwise good ending.	2002-11-14
US	50429811	R1ULYKC6KWG59G	0671567802	245632132	Bless the Beasts (Star Trek Voyager, No 10)	Books	1	6	6	N	N	Oh Please, if you're going to write about Star Trek...	Do some research first.  While I'm not a major hardcore trekker, I do at least expect the books I read about the Star Trek universe to be accurate with technical information and charachter accuracy.  This book was neither, by far.  I also expect at least some realism when it comes to diplomacy.  In this, the book also lacked....atrociously.<br />It seems Janeway is constantly annoyed at something.  It's like Janeway's PMS week through the whole book.  Then she can't find any coffee...yah, sure.<br />She's rude to dignitaries sent aboard the ship, makes stupid mistakes throughout the book that just would not be possible.<br />The technical mistakes are so glaring that anyone who has actually watched the show on a regular basis would notice it.  I'd expect an author writing about this ship to consult the technical manuals which are out on the ship to at least be consistent with the show.<br />The diolouge is choppy, unnatural, and it seems like the the crew members alternate between complete dopy, stupid decision making, and getting annoyed at something or someone.  I barely made it through the book....at every chapter I just kept thinking &quot;It can't get any worse&quot;...but it only got worse with each following chapter.  I started off thinking this book might get three stars, but it quickly dropped....by chapter eight it was such a rediculous bore I wished I could give it no stars.<br />This was the first of the Voyager books I've read, I think I need to find some others, they can't be this bad.	2002-11-10
US	50429811	RWVXNDV5ROMJ0	0671704273	26274479	Star Trek The Next Generation: Technical Manual	Books	4	10	11	N	N	USS Enterprise 1701-D....Inside and out	If you're a trekker, and would just love to know all the information about life aboard the Enterprise you'll love this book.  This book coveres Warp Drive, Turbolifts, Bio-beds in the Sickbay, Tricorders, Hull Material and construction, Holodecks, impulse drive engines, phasers, facts about the Utopia Planitia shipyards, and even the system of addressing crew quarters and such.  There is so much information here it's great.<br />The book also has footnotes throughout about different hapenings on the set of ST:TNG.  It is well organised with diagrams and plans for many of the parts of the Enterprise.  This really shows the planning which is put behind the world of Star Trek, and how they do thier best to make sure the stories fit technical plausability and cohesion.	2002-11-08
US	50429811	R32Y7WUZWHL3QQ	0789402017	138352378	Children Just Like Me: A Unique Celebration of Children Around the World	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Beautifully collected pictures and information	This book is a collection of children around the world and is a wonderfull way to introduce your children to how people live around the world.  Children of many different religious, finantial(very poor to quite wealthy), and ethnic backgrounds are given introduction within.<br />You and your kids will meet children like Carlitos, a boy who lives on an Argintine ranch in a three bedroom house and rides horses and drinks Mate tea. -- Or Suchart, from Thiland, a 12 year old budhist monk in training who lives in a small hut on stilts, has no toys, and starts his day begging for alms in his small village.  He likes the cats who live in the temple, and is always losing his sandals because he has to take them off before he goes into the temple and forgets where he left them. -- And Thi Lien, in Vietnam who wears beautiful batik died traditional clothes made by her mother, helps feed the families chickens and harvest rice, and collects firewood. -- And Celina, who lives in the Amazon Rain Forrest of Brazil in a mud brick two room hut.  She likes to paint herself with die made from a local root every day, and has never worn shoes.  She likes to take the canoe out on the river her family lives near.<br />There is information about each child's favorite activities, what they eat, what they wear, pictures of thier home, family members, religious practices, and special things about thier cultures.  This book has many children from Australia, Africa, The Americas, The Philipenes, Europe, Asia, India, and more.  I have enjoyed looking at all the childred in this book and reading about how they live.  Even though it's for children, anyone can enjoy this book.  I only wish it had more children to meet.  This book shows how children and people everywhere have the same thoughts, and fun, even though they may live in vastly different conditions.	2002-11-07
US	50429811	R3BX9U6HX7FHR6	078571328X	92373266	Glory Road	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Surprisingly Satisfying	I read this book simply because it was by Robert Heinlein, and based on many of the reviews here I was expecting a lighthearted adventure tale with some romance thrown in.  I got more than I expected.  Heinlein is a master of the human mind, and the inner strugles of his charachters are the real story in this book, the unusual settings simply give a better way to portray these inner struggles, and demonstrate better the differences in interaction between cultures.  This is a book about love, finding yourself, then dealing with love and your true self without sacrificing either.  It's about friends, culture, and social constraints.<br />Not to say the adventure in the story is weak, of course not!  This is a fun adventure, starting light-hearted, but quickly becoming intense when Oscar, Star, and Rufo are on thier way.<br />This book also breaks the norm of finishing the book off quickly after the danger has been averted, the damsel no longer distressed.  In real life you don't have 'happily ever after' endings, and this book filled a gap I almost always feel after reading a good book...\\"What happens now?\\"...for some reason, the typical ending just doesn't cut it for me.  This book left on an unexpected, but good note.  A different, and very good book.	2002-11-06
US	50429811	RW7L2GK9WDC3J	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Examination of our customs and values from a fresh outlook	Many of Heinlein's books lack a definitive \\"plot\\" and I belive this is the reason his works are at times misunderstood.  For many readers, upon finishing a third or half of the book, are caught up in what is really just a background.  When the background changes, they don't know what to do about it.<br />Stranger in a strange land examines how modern customs look from a perspective without a lifetime of living in that culture, and from the perspective of someone who wants to so completly understand everything, to \\"grok\\" everything in fullness to the point that he knows on an intimate level everything that can be known.  This makes for many dissertations into philosiphical conversation from various people of varying degrees of social rigididy.<br />Another reviewer here noted Heinlein's seemingly bigoted view of women and homosexuality.  Heinlin, while a master of portraying the human spirit, was still a man of his time with his own biases.  His portrayal of women throughout all his books does seem a bit 'old school' but not in a degrading way.  Hearing the tone of the 'macho' men and the feminine ladies is a refreshing perspective.  Heinlin wrote books in his time to make people think, and examine what they belive, question it.  Now, modern readers sometimes take this for granted, since society has changed so much....we read and see a persentation of a simpler time of tradition, even in the midst of questioning tradition.<br />Also, it should be noted that much of the story takes place in the home of a very cynical, old school man who keeps four beautiful women around as personal assistants(and no, they aren't prostitutes).  I think this is just a kind of reveling in the differences of the sexes...and from a hetero outlook of course! Vive la Difference!  I don't think this was sexist, merly a different perspective to examine.<br />It's also interresting that Heinlien tried so hard to examine the depths of human psychology, tradition, religion and love, but dismissed the idea of Guys kissing Guys with little dissertation or discussion.  Is this personal bias of Heinlein, or a purposful variation on a theme to make you think even harder?  Maybe.  I think it showed that some biases were given to Mike, even though Jubal did his best to present a fresh and thoughtfull picture of humanity.<br />Stranger in a Strange land is certainly a wonderful book, which has influenced our society on some level, and so is worthy of being read at least to understand that.the idea of Guys kissing Guys with little dissertation or discussion.  Is this personal bias of Heinlein, or a purposful variation on a theme to make you think even harder?  Maybe.  I think it showed that some biases were given to Mike, even though Jubal did his best to present a fresh and thoughtfull picture of humanity.<br />Stranger in a Strange land is certainly a wonderful book, which has influenced our society on some level, and so is worthy of being read at least to understand that.	2002-11-06
US	50429811	RU6I4UR6D0MQ9	0072401834	386752225	Understanding Human A&P w/Essential Study Partner CD-ROM (MP)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	This was my Textbook in Massage Therapy school	This book covers the basics of Anatomy and Physiology for a student getting started.  It is structured well, and is easy to skim through and find answers if you're looking for a specific question.  Also, it's not so dry as some textbooks, so you don't fall asleep so easily while studying!<br />The best thing about this book is the CD Rom study guide.  The study guide has an overview of the book, with pictures and video clips of computer animated sequences of cell function, muscle function, and many other things.  It also has activities in which you click and drag answers for study sheets.  At the end of each section there is a quiz, with randomly selected questions from the study material, and at the end of a chapter a unit exam.  This helped me tremendously in preparing for tests.  You can test yourself several times with differing tests(since the questions are random)and so be more prepared for your exams in class.	2002-11-06
US	50429811	R242A8MP41D9ZI	1580082335	734747554	How to Grow More Vegetables: And Fruits, Nuts, Berries, Grains and Other Crops Than You Ever Thought Possible on Less Land Than You Can Imagine	Books	5	245	250	N	N	Concise, Thorough Guide to Gardning for sustinance	This book was loaned to me by a friend who has used it's techniques to produce high-yield growth in his gardens.  I have always wanted to have a self sufficent garden, and land for this, but have always thought I would need a number of acres to do this.  I am now planning on purchasing a home with one acre and am confident that with the techniques detailed in this book, I will be able to produce good crops for home-grown organic vegetables.<br />There is so much information here on composting, conpanion planting, how plants and thier root systems grow and interact, how to make the garden beds, why beds and clumps are better and yield more produce than planting in rows, soil composition, garden implements and more.<br />There are diagrams for everything you need to know presented in such a way that it's easy to understand and implement.  There is so much information here, it would be usefull to a complete beginer like me or an experienced gardner.<br />Happy Planting!	2002-11-05
US	50429811	R2NHO9JB9JJFTM	4309904092	721246218	Gynoids: Genetically Manipulated	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Gynoids......erotic cyborg women	Steel and Flesh fuse in this collection of scince fiction erotic art.  Realistic presentations of soldier women with thier blades and guns, and trussed up, harnesed submissives are all portraied in stunningly realistic detail.<br />From the Spike Heeled, gas mask wearing, machine gun totin, latex covered \\"Commando\\" who's breasts are amply framed under the clear latex of her suit....to the erotic, wild haired, amizonian beauty clad in a fishnet ninja suit in three stages of completion, \\"Ninja Girl\\" is suitable for framing.<br />Amazon warrior women and cyborgs aren't the only thing you'll find herin though.  Erotica like \\"Chaps\\" which is a woman wearing....you guessed it, chaps...in a stunningly sensual pose which is both challenging and vunerable.  Another of a lady who's something of a morph of a bighorn sheep.....who's 'secret gate' is tantalisingly displayed.<br />Sorayama's chosen form of art gives the ability to display the human form in ways which are in reality, impossible....somehow this does not come across as akward or just plain strange looking as I've seen some forms of art like this do.  The cybernetics, bondage, lace, wires, or whatever he chooses to use as decor for the female form blend beautifally.<br />These works in the book are suitable for framing should you choose to do so, but I would hate to cut up the book for this purpose personally.	2002-11-04
US	50429811	R3GCH4OY1EJX6	0875961061	860039788	Scott Tinley's Winning Guide to Sports Endurance: How to Maximize Speed, Strength & Stamina	Books	5	2	2	N	N	So much good information	This book covers everything from Adrenaline to Windchill and anything you need to know in between. Starting with the category 'The Biology of Endurance' then 'Training Tools and Techniques' then 'Nutrition for Maximum Endurance' followed by 'Injuries, Obstacles, and Perils' and finally 'Great Endurance Challenges'(a listing of many major endurance athletic events around the world).<br />Ogranised in Encyclopedia format, this book is packed with the information you need to become a good endurance athlete. Wether looking up Massage Therapy, Fartlek Training, or Aerodynamics you'll find the information you're looking for quickly and easily.  If you're a Personal Trainer or a beginner you will find this book usefull. I've had this book for almost as long as it's been published and have consulted it again and again.  This is a book I'm sure any athlete would enjoy.	2002-11-04
US	50429811	R7I4JGSR459SN	0812565495	502372960	Moonlight & Vines (Newford)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Newford; A more somber collection	I was glad to find a third collection of Newford tales, but still a bit dissapointed.  The stories hit some deep emotional tones, and I even found tears streaming down my face at more than one part of this book.  However, this didn't have the light-hearted flow of his previous Newford collections of short stories.  It seems almost like DeLint set out to come up with a moral tone and it wasn't as enjoyable as the lighter, beat-of-the-town which I was expecting.<br />Some of the ideas were a bit far-fetched as well.  Even though I didn't care as much for it as the two previous Newford Collections, it's still good.  His prose is well writen in a realistic, conversational way.  His charachters put me back in a time of my wild, young, living-on-the edge days and remind me of people I used to know.  I've moved to a more stable(ok, I'll admit, boring and full of responsibilities) lifestyle now and it's nice to remember my young, living on ramen noodles lifestyle with a romantic and magical edge that DeLint can infuse into his stories and charachters.	2002-11-02
US	50429811	R1B8DZI4OA5FAM	006092554X	732091569	The Art of Dreaming	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Delve Deep into your psyche to find answers	This book in 'The Teachings of Don Juan' series is all about dreaming, lucid dreaming, traveling to other realms and meeting non-corporal beings using your dreams as a key.  It's about finding the keys to your inner self, your inner power, and unlocking your potential to find the answers you need to know in your life.<br />Like all the 'Don Juan' books this isn't so much a how-to manual like many books on magic are.  Rather, this is a story about one man and one teacher and thier experiences together.  There is much to learn here, but individuals may have different experiences with some of the methods than Carlos Castenada had.  A good book to read if you are working on unlocking the power of your dreams.	2002-11-01
US	50429811	R3VCELB1EJK229	0345334302	120812203	The Ringworld Engineers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Has answers, has conflict, but not as enjoyable as Ringworld	Granted, I couldn't put it down, but that's just how I am when I want to know the answer to something.  I was dissapointed at how short it was, and there is no sense of time.  Events which are suposed to take a week or more seem to fly by in minutes.  I noticed this lack of time in many places.<br />It wasn't as sex-filled as some of the reviews say....I was actually expecting more sex after reading the reviews here.  Although somewhat dissapointed by the book, I was satisfied to have answers to some of the questions left by the first book, but I think this book just opens up more questions.  I still am womdering \\"What happens now?\\"	2002-10-31
US	50429811	R1GX0MG8N5C571	0892815019	884483859	A Druid's Herbal for the Sacred Earth Year	Books	4	34	35	N	N	A thorough guide to druidic herbalism	Within the pages of this book's beautiful exterior lies much information for pagans, heathens, druids who are interrested in the use of herbs.  This also has an overview of Ogham, the tree alphabet.<br />Starting with Samhain, the Celtic New year, this book explains the herbs which are used at the great tides of the year along with the traditional practices of each of the yearly tides.  It has ideas for acorn and oak cakes as gifts, along with a song, for the tree spirits at Samhain.  For Yule Tide it gives suggestions on use of Holly, Chamomile, Frankenscence, and other yule herbs.  And it does the same for Imbolic,  The Spring, Summer and Fall equinoxes, Beltane, Lammas.  Medicinal uses are also included.<br />After that, there is a section on herbs and thier uses.  And then a section on the herbs associated with The Sun, Mercury, and the rest of the celestial astrology and how to use them, and ritual ideas for them as well.<br />Following that is a section of use of herbs in rituals for cleansing, gifting to spirits, groves and circles ect.  There are also sections on life tides of death, marriage/handfasting, childbirth and more.  Throughout the book there is information about the druids and thier traditions.<br />At the back there are apendixes for pronunciation, herb index so you can find the specific herb you are looking for, and suggested further reading.  There is also a listing of resources from which you can find supplies.<br />All in all a thorough refrence and guide to using herbs in ritual.  There aren't any of the colorfull pictures common in most herbal refrences specifically for medicinal herbs, and I still think you would need additional herbal books specifically about medicinal properties and preperation to learn to identify plants and how to prepare them(Penelope Ody has some good ones).  I think this is an excellent addition to any pagan herbalist's library.	2002-10-30
US	50429811	RXH3AMWW02AEV	0345333926	120812203	Ringworld (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stunning new world	The Ringworld is a masterpeice of engeneering on breathtaking scale.  Four individuals are sent on a mission to discover it's secrets and find out what kind of place it could be for them.<br />Louis, an old man kept young by drugs common on earth in his time is an eccentric jack of all trades becomes the pivotal force behind the mission. Teela, young, nubile, and exceedingly lucky, luckily stumbles into the right place at the right time to be included in this mission.  Speaker-to-Animals, a large, tiger-like alein of a feirce race of warriors is a Diplomat to earth, and is also requested to join.  Then there is Nessus....the puppeteer, a strange alien who's entire civilization is based on cowardace is given the job of leading this mission because of his insanity.  He's not quite as cowardly as befits any sane puppeteer, and so is considered quite mad by his peers.<br />They find the Ringworld, and must navigate it to learn it's secrets, and survive long enough while doing so to escape this strange world of wonder.  Along the way, they must also learn thier own personal interworkings.<br />The story was excellent.  I would have hoped to learn more about the Ringworld, and it's people, but I suppose that's what the sequals are for!	2002-10-27
US	50429811	R1W06QXFW21SRU	093406122X	569623337	The Joy of Uncircumcising!: Exploring Circumcision : History, Myths, Psychology, Restoration, Sexual Pleasure, and Human Rights	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Anyone having a son should read this book	This book has helped thousands of men who feel they were mutilated by circumcision as infants take control and do something to regain what was taken from them.  This book covers the history of circumcision, why it became so common in some countries, and why it is still so common today.  It discusses the functions of the foreskin(more than just a flap of skin) and what is lost through circumcision, as well as the social implications of allowing this surgery and mutilitation to be carried out on our male children.<br />I'm so glad I saw this book before I had my son, as well as reading other information.  Like many Americans, my husband and I just figured that's what you do....and we were both glad when we found out circumcision is not nessicary, benificial, and that there is nothing wrong with being intact.	2002-10-27
US	50429811	RW6RGC8IN1KNC	0345333926	120812203	Ringworld (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stunning new world	The Ringworld is a masterpeice of engeneering on breathtaking scale.  Four individuals are sent on a mission to discover it's secrets and find out what kind of place it could be for them.<br />Louis, an old man kept young by drugs common on earth in his time is an eccentric jack of all trades becomes the pivotal force behind the mission. Teela, young, nubile, and exceedingly lucky, luckily stumbles into the right place at the right time to be included in this mission.  Speaker-to-Animals, a large, tiger-like alein of a feirce race of warriors is a Diplomat to earth, and is also requested to join.  Then there is Nessus....the puppeteer, a strange alien who's entire civilization is based on cowardace is given the job of leading this mission because of his insanity.  He's not quite as cowardly as befits any sane puppeteer, and so is considered quite mad by his peers.<br />They find the Ringworld, and must navigate it to learn it's secrets, and survive long enough while doing so to escape this strange world of wonder.  Along the way, they must also learn thier own personal interworkings.<br />The story was excellent.  I would have hoped to learn more about the Ringworld, and it's people, but I suppose that's what the sequals are for!	2002-10-27
US	50429811	R19L7T4WIEOH0O	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The Fellowship of the Ring must split up	Two members of the fellowship of the ring have passed on in the previous book, and now the fellowship must split further onto paths which will take them far from one another and all of them deeper into dangerous territory.<br />The pitiful creature, Gollum, takes a stronger role in this book, and the true evil which they are up against becomes further revealed in this book.<br />The entire Lord of the Rings series is a wonderfully writen, astounding, adventure tale of friendship, hope and courage in the face of horrible adversity and turmoil.	2002-10-26
US	50429811	R1ANMG2AU5MU0M	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	In The Beginning There was the first hundred	And They did land on Mars, and make themselves shelter, and food.  And they did study and learn and shape this new world to thier will.  And it was good.<br />This book is rich in imagery, science, personality, and realism.  I was so thoroughly pulled in by this book that I read the entire trillogy straight through on the momentum of this first book.  This is the best of the series I belive, but the other two books are still worth it to complete this epic tale.  They start in Antartica, during training and final selection of the first hundred to land on mars and build a rich tapestry to start this trillogy from.<br />The Charachters are full of personality and realism, the setting richly described, and you'll find yourself pulled to Mars and dreaming of the day when we really will land there and set up a colony and eventually a new nation.	2002-10-25
US	50429811	R3PXFUVYHOG28L	0553573357	487389793	Blue Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	I tried to read the entire trilogy straight through	I was on such a roll from the previous two books in the series that I read this straightaway after finishing Green Mars.  It was too much.  I think at this point in the series the book was just getting too complicated to follow everything and remember everything going on.  I'm going to have to read the series again, but pace myself.<br />Still, the immagery of the changes on Mars, the oceans, development of life, development of government, development of already very developed relationships was intense.  I found myself longing to be there, wishing that Mars can be colonised in my lifetime.<br />This is something good to read if you've read the previous two books, just be prepared for some VERY involved, detailed writing.<br />Another note, this book is writen from a very liberal point of view.....I found the concepts of the government being put in place intriguing, and in a perfect world(maybe Mars?) it could work.	2002-10-25
US	50429811	R38V37D13BYHG3	0152771905	293957366	A Solitary Secret	Books	1	2	3	N	N	I read this as a young teen	This book was in the young adult section of the library, and I checked it out and read it when I was 13.  Looking back, I wouldn't think this is a good book for a 13 year old.  It is about a girl who is molested/raped by her father, and her atempt to find the courage to tell someone to make it stop.  While that's a good thing, the extreemly graphic, detailed and lengthy descriptions of her being molested are akin to writen voyeristic pornography to the point that I could see a pedophile even enjoying this book.  I would not reccomend it.	2002-10-23
US	50429811	R27VDT8W3X65ER	0345324382	208109050	Farmer in the Sky	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Pioneer days of the future on one of Jupiter's moons	This book is about a boy and his father who get to head out to the frontier of one of Jupiter's moons to be farmers.  Lured by stories of no rationing, land of thier own they take off with bright hopes of a good comfortable living as farmers.  After a trip on a crowded spaceship and some unexpected excitement to break up the boredom of the long trip they arrive in the promised land.<br />As the old saying goes &quot;If it sounds too good to be true....&quot;<br />Father and son settle into local life.  The brochures were right about one thing....they have plenty of food, no rationing, and they get to have some land.  But, it's not what was expected.  Hard work and the help of some good neighbors help them settle in and set up thier farm, but life is still fraught with dangers.<br />Not as good as some of Heinlein's other books, but it's still a good book, fun to read, and gives food for thought.	2002-10-23
US	50429811	RXLAD7HB3BE2O	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Scary and Eye-opening	As I read this book I was struck by the similarities of events in this book, and our own society, and how we seem to be moving closer to this sort of existance.  In a world where 'big brother' knows all and sees all through covert cameras, microphones, and secret police you can't even have freedom of thought.  Freedom of speech has long since become something of the mythical past, people can't even fathom what it could be like.....but, just maybe someone can?  Could there be an underground revoloution?  And can they get away with the horrible thought: \\"Down with Big Brother\\"<br />This book is so relevant to our world today.  Power corrupts, and absoulute power corrupts absoutely.  This begs the question, how much power will we allow our own government to have over our lives, even when it's for our protection?	2002-10-23
US	50429811	R1AWCHHUNQNGCF	0517072467	993374024	The Great Big Treasury of Beatrix Potter	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Beautifully collected stories and illustrations	This childrens book of the classic Beatrix Potter stories is hardbound in a large attractive cover.  The illustrations are all wonderfull, and average three pictures per page next to the text which goes along with the scene.  My now three year old loves this book.<br />My mother bought this for my kids, and this is an excellent gift for bedtime, or anytime stories for children.  Classics like these are wonderfull to read to children so they can be passed on from generation to generation.	2002-10-22
US	50429811	R2X4ZJQT1W5F1N	0192832883	39956460	Green Mansions (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A beautiful, mystical story of adventure and love	The main male charachter has reason to leave civilization and travels far into South American jungles, meets with native tribes, and finds one which takes him in.  They all seem happy with him until his curiosity gets the best of him, and he goes to a 'forbiden forest' so feared by this tribe he becomes ostricised for having been there.<br />In the second part of this book he befriends a mysterious girl who lives in the forest and seems more farie than human.  He finds himself doing things for her which he would have never thought he would do for another person.<br />This is a clasic love story, intriguing, beautiful, and tragic.  This was one of my first introductions to the classics of lliterature, and prompted me to find and read more of classic literature which has greatly enriched the scope of my reading experiences.	2002-10-22
US	50429811	RAHQPUTR0KBTO	0064550168	29492168	The Anatomy Coloring Book	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An excellent tool for visual learners	This is a workbook I'd reccomend for any student of Anatomy.  I make a point to get a new copy every three to four years and color through it just to review and stay fresh.  I am studying massage Therapy now, and first used this book six years ago when I was thinking about going into massage therapy or physical therapy since I knew I would need this(if you're wondering why the long length of time, just getting money together for school).<br />The knowlegde of the muscles, thier attachemnts, origins, and actions have stayed fresh in my mind for years so that going through A&amp;P was much easier for me than for my classmates.  While the bones and muscles were my main interest, I aquired a good working knowledge of the rest of the body from this book along with my textbooks.<br />This book is great for anyone even thinking of a medical profession, or artists needing a better understanding of how the body is put together.  I have known a few people this book didn't help, but this was because they were not visual learners, but this is great for anyone who learns visually.	2002-10-22
US	50429811	RTWDO2IYBC6F4	0871294273	80748852	J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A fun adventure story for all ages	This book details the adventure 'There and Back Again' of Bilbo Baggins.  Bilbo is a respectable Hobbit, who never does anything unexpected or adventurous until one day he has an adventure thrust upon him by the wizard Gandalf.  Off he goes with a rabble of dwarves in search of a great treasure guarded by a terrible tragon.<br />This wonderful tale is for anyone of any age who is old enough to sit still for a chapter at a time(I plan on this being a bedtime story book when my kids are old enough to enjoy this).  You will grow to love Bilbo and his companions as they ramble through the wilderness, encounter dangers, hardships, and new friends.  I was thoroughly entranced by this classic tale of adventure fantacy, and found myself coming up with tunes for the traveling songs and wishing I could be there within Middle Earth to have these adventures as well.<br />This is also the prequel to 'The Lord of The Rings' which is also a wonderful classic of fantacy.	2002-10-22
US	50429811	R1Z6PWKME0PF4W	0875422918	792360924	Teutonic Magic: The Magical & Spiritual Practices of the Germanic Peoples (Llewellyn's Teutonic Magick Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	...why do the best books go out of print?	....Gundarsson's work is similar in many ways to Edred Thorsson. I belive this is both because Gunarsson was influenced by Thorsson, and that it's solid truth and is right on with facts and practice of Asatru/Norse Heathenry. However, where Thorsson's works are dry and scholarly, Gundarssons writing is flowing and beautiful. He has sections on the norse deities, and on performing rituals. His rituals are more involved than what I would likely do, but for those who enjoy beautiful and complex ritual, this book has some excellent guidelines.<br />This book covers the bases of learning Rune Magic...the structure of the spiritual realms, and complete descriptions of the runes which each include a guided meditation(good to have someone read to you while you meditate and visualize) to better understand the depth of meaning for the runes and how they each fit into the cycles of life and death.<br />This book is out of print now, and therefore expensive. I'm glad to have purchaced a copy at only double cover price several years ago, now it's quadrupile or more the cover price. If you have the cash to spare for this book this is an excellent book to have around along with 'Teutonic Religion' also by Gundarsson and 'A book of Troth' by Edred Thorsson.	2002-10-22
US	50429811	RAO1VDQLLP83G	0140183523	256512938	Kim (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great insight into India	This book delves deep into India's caste system and culture at the turn of the century.  Our main charachter, Kim, is on a mission to deliver a letter, and from there meets many varied an interresting people.  One of these is a monk, who 'adopts' Kim as a student.  The monk is in search of enlightenment, and belives Kim to be the answer in his finding a special river.<br />In this book you will be transported to India in a romanticised time of great poverty, and occupation by the Brittish empire.  This is a story of coming-of-age during hardship and turmoil.	2002-10-19
US	50429811	RCSZML0L1DWDT	0809239302	72179853	Body Flex--Body Magic	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good book for female body builders	This book is a thorough approach to women's weightlifting and addresses many relevant topics from safty, where to workout, pregnancy, diet, and complete instruction with pictures on how to perform hundreds of lifts.<br />Anja Langer includes workout routines for the beginner, intermediate and advanced bodybuilder.  Also information on losing body fat, and diets to follow wether your goal is simply to get in better shape, or to become a competitive body builder.  This is a guide I turn to whenever I feel like changing my workout routines, and what is best for me at any given time.	2002-10-19
US	50429811	R25UDWK76P2IO0	0892814802	416116503	Gentle Birth Choices: A Guide to Making Informed Decisions about Birthing Centers, Birth Attendants, Water Birth, Home Birth, and Hospital Birth	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Inspirational, Informative, but fell short for me	When I was pregnant with my first child I read, believd, and greatly enjoyed this book. I felt so prepared for my home birth attended by a midwife, and was so sure everything would work out....<br />To make a long story short, everything doesn't always work out great with home birth like the beautiful stories tell.  I had to transfer to the hospital, and had a miserable birth experience with my first child.  After reading this book I was so built up for a wonderful experience.  I still had a healthy baby, and no major complications.<br />I think this is a good book to read, if taken with a grain of salt. A home birth would be a wonderfull thing, as would a birth center, or an OB who was behind natural birth(the choices which are given the most credit). Unfourtunatly, in practice there are people who have difficulties with birthing, and I feel this book failed to address that, and went overboard on the 'woman-power'/have faith in your body/you can do it aspect.  If you choose a home birth, this can be a wonderfull thing to do.  But it is best to have a back up plan, just in case.	2002-10-19
US	50429811	RANAH215B11HJ	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Finding Family	In this book Harry Potter finds his Godfather.  Finally, someone who knew his parents and so now he has family who really care about him.  Only problem is that his godfather is wanted as a criminal for a terrible crime....did he actually do it?  Read this book to find out.<br />Hagrid also begins teaching this year, and some exciting adventures are found in his classes.  However, Draco Malfoy manages to create more problems for him.  Harry is also faced with a challenge which nearly kills him, and learns to conquer it.	2002-10-18
US	50429811	RNBTZNQYZYBAI	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry's New life, second year	This second book in the Harry Potter series is just as action packed and fun to read as the first.  There are more details of the Dursleys, Harry's horrid Aunt, Uncle and Cousin and a number of interresting meetings and new friends.<br />Old friends join with Harry in his adventures, he recives a new gift to help him out at school which compliments the invisibility cloak he recived in the last book.  A depressed ghost, and a house goblin are also influentual in Harry finding out the dangerous secret, and solving it.	2002-10-18
US	50429811	RZHX86K7B625N	0634032135	569866890	Enya - A Day Without Rain	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Beautiful Music to be played by you	Now, you too, can play the beautiful music of Enya.  These beautiful tunes we all love from the CD may be your favorites to sing and hum as you go about your day.  And, it's so much better to play them too on the Piano or Guitar.	2002-10-18
US	50429811	R8QPKWHPNGRJG	0743203909	527694289	The Book of Massage: The Complete Step-by-Step Guide to Eastern and Western Technique	Books	3	207	233	N	N	A good start in massage, but lacking a medical perspective	As someone who is about to graduate to be a Massage Therapist, I find the techniques in this book to be good, and the massage sequences outlined in the Sweedish Massage quite similar to the sequences I learned in school.  The pictures and diagrams are thorough, and the instruction on Shiatsu is good as well.<br />From a professional perspective, I had some problems with this book though.  One big probelm is the book discounts knowledge of anatomy as unnessicary for massage, and I strongly disagree with that.  Massage is applied anatomy, and the study of anatomy is essential for anyone who wishes to be a massage therapist, or even a good ameture.  Without understanding what it is you are pressing, kneading, rubbing, and tapping you're not going to be able to be very theraputic.<br />I was dissapointed that the book hardly touched on contraindications(cautions, conditions in which massage can be harmfull) such as cancer, diabeties, AIDS, alcohol consumption and others.  Where it does mention contraindications, it's more of a short sidenote than anything.<br />The book has full nudity in most of the books pictures.  While this isn't a bad thing nessicarily, I didn't see any information about draping procedures and protecting client modesty.  Also, most of the massage is done on the floor, rather than a massage table and there was little discussion of body mechanics of the therapist.  I get the feeling the book was actually meant for 'sensual' couples massage, rather than a guide for someone who is out to become a good massage therapist.  In that light, it is a decent book for couples sensual massage.	2002-10-18
US	50429811	R20DKWII0PGHER	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Militaristic Adventure is the backdrop for societal study	Having read a number of Heinlein's books, I can't really belive that the author was actually behind the form of government he writes about here.  However, he writes it so well, and with such convincing gusto that people get the impression Heinlein is pining for draft days, war, and 'beating up long haired hippies'.  I got something else out of it.<br />Like the classic '1884' this book demonstrates the dangers of a society which has become too controlling.  It's subtle though.....hints of the hypnosis the soldiers go through, the speeches of rightness of thier powerfull leaders they hear and belive so totally, the teacher in school.....unlike 1984 in which the tyrrany and oppression are obvious, here it has become part of life, and most people are happy because they have such little crime, and it's not so totally controlling that people are unable to live happy lives.  I got the impression of an underlying 'wrongness' about things, but that the people were desensitised and conditioned to accept.  Writen in an age when communism was the enemy, and the enemy hated, I think this book demonstrates the humanity within the people of a society that has become dehumanised and warlike.<br />This book is yet another classic Heinlein, and so far I haven't found a book by Robert Heinlein that wasn't worth the read.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R2U84RJM4LDWRC	0553377744	697288180	Attila's Treasure	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Magic, Intrigue, Romance, Betrayal, Danger and more	This book is a companion to Rhinegold and details the events of the life of Hagan, who is sent to live with Atilla as a foster-hostage. Well written and researched like any of Grundy's novles, you find yourself transported into the time he writes of, and find yourself empathising with the charachters. Hagan, the ultimate introvert, is portraied in a sensitive and understanding way, showing the intense emotion which is felt by those who are often misunderstood, and thought to be without feeling and less than human.<br />The strong history in this book and wonderful descriptions of surroundings show the culture clashes experienced by the charachters within.  It's a story of cross-culture friendships, and tolerance and understanding of your friends even when you don't understand or nesicarily agree with practices of your friends.  It is also a story of dangerous forbidden love and longing.<br />As one who practices Asatru, norse religion, I was delighted at the realistic and true way in which the religions and magic are portraied.  Those who enjoyed this may also be interrested to know that the author of these books is a scholar who has also writen books on Asatru under the penname 'Kveldulf Gundarsson' and his books are \\"Teutonic Magic\\" and \\"Teutonic Religion\\".	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R2URRA3NV8RH00	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Rousing Historical Fiction	This book is fairly well researched, and reads like an account of Ibn Fadlan.  It's so well done that I kept forgetting that it was, in fact, fictional.  A great story of a young man who makes a bit of a fubar, and is sent journeying around to be an ambassador.  He gets caught up with some rough norsemen and goes off to have an adventure with them.  There are some excellent themes in this book, and the movie wasn't able to tell it all, of course.  I got this after seeing The 13th Warrior and so appriciated the fleshing out of the tale after the movie which seems to be a clif's notes in comparison.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R2NEZODDTRGRGE	0877285489	723189125	Futhark: A Handbook of Rune Magic	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A good foundation for runic study	This book is a classic of runeology and an excellent primer for those interrested in rune magic.  The translations and meanings are on target.  The exercises are good, and explinations of rune magic make it understandable.<br />However, Edred Thorsson has a rather dry, dull writing style that does make the good content difficult to follow at times, and it drags.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R3R79CM30PUOST	0812523482	272139789	The Hammer and the Cross	Books	5	6	8	N	N	I've lost count of how many times I've read this book	From the beginning you are caught up in the viking age, and the story of Shef, who changes the course of history through the help he recives from the Norse Gods in the form of visions.  As an ametuer historian, I found this novel exceptional, and as someone who personally followes the old norse gods, I was not dissapointed.  The Gods and Goddesses are portraied truly, I get the feeling the author has had experience with them himself, or at least the input of someone else who does.<br />This is a long book by itself, full of action.  The two books which follow it only get better.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R1QU1XMYAZ8TWG	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	The beginning of the great adventure	Get this classic book.  Our charachters begin thier great adventure.  This book has a more lighthearted feel than the latter two books because the fullness of what they are really up against has not been revealed.  Still, there is heartbreak and tragedy on the road, but we know this is only the beginning.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R37B6P3G5BO39Y	0812536452	568319383	One King's Way (Hammer and the Cross)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The king makes the great journey	Shef is now co-king of england, and has brought peace and prosperity to his land.  He is summoned to go north, and to make a great journey around the northlands.  The plot thickens in this book, and builds on the first.  The charachters develop even more in this book, and continue to do so in the final book of the trilogy.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R3GDSG7HPTVPI4	0380975742	837518953	Gilgamesh	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An epic, rich telling of the ancient story	I got this book because it is by Stephan Grundy, and having read his two previous books 'Atilla's Treasure' and 'Rhinegold' I knew I would have a great book to read.  I wasn't dissapointed, but was a bit surprised at parts of it. As the other reviws say, a main part of the plot is his relationship with Enkidu.<br />I felt totally drawn into the world of ancient Sumeria....the rich detailed descriptions of temples, cerimonies, sexuality, people interacting with each other are all so well done.  The Ensi's journey from rash, impulsive youth in love with his power, to the man who has been through trials and peril is so thoroughly enchanting.  If you're not squeamish about sexuality, and homosexuality, then you will likely love this book.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R13JV41G8JJ2ZY	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Classic, timeless adventure comes to a close	This book brings the masterpeice of the Lord of the Rings to a close.  Our charachters are put through such trial and hardship, and stick together through it all.  I don't feel that I can really write enough to express the full, rich, epic this book is.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R29TAQAP9U4H2P	0875427790	813495691	The Truth About Teutonic Magick (Truth About Series)	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	Simple, basic, short	I was a bit dissapointed when I got this, since it really doesn't have anything 'new' that isn't in Edred Thorsson's books.  It seems more like a basic overview geared towards people with no experience and knowledge in runelore and teutonic magic.  Assuming that is this book's purpose, then it's not bad, but if you have Thorsson's other books you probably will not get anything new out of this one.	2002-10-17
US	50429811	R17T4BHU96SQKE	0875427774	718475157	Book Of Troth (Llewellyn's Teutonic Magick Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	This is good, basic Asatru.  It should be in print again.	This book is an overview of the practices and beliefs of modern Asatru, as well as a summary of how beliefs were applied in ancient times.  It discusses history, modern history, rituals, moral and community standards.  This should grace the shelf of any Asatruar.<br />It does contain some out of date information about the Ring of Troth, but that's not really a big deal.  It also has a number of basic retuals which I have found to be a good basis as a guideline for writing your own rituals.	2002-10-14
US	50429811	RK1PVBO9FY962	078688942X	40446301	The Book of D'Ni (Myst, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Myst series is a must if you enjoy the game	This book is a wonderfull mystery about the rebuilding of D'ni and an incridible find while sifting through the ruins of the ancient city.<br />Another realm is found to explore....a land of great wealth, beauty, plenty, which holds such wonderfull promise for the survivors who the inhabitants of this land invite to join them in thier land of plenty.....but a dark secret soon turns everything upside down.	2002-10-14
US	50429811	R3JG81EJ2MJOH9	0786889209	770677225	The Book of Ti'Ana (Myst, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A history of the begining of the end	This book gives you the story behind the story of Atrus, and the games of Myst.  It takes place right around the time of the fall of D'ni.  Your questions as to how such a great society fell are answered.  This also brings to light the dangers of breaking with social customs which have been brought about after many years of experience and tradition.<br />A must if you have read and enjoyed any of the other myst books or the games.  This starts on the surface of earth, with Ti'Anna(Atrus's grandmother) as she is out in the desert, then finds her way to D'ni, then marries Atrius, and raises Ghen.	2002-10-14
US	50429811	R3K9TV2D2MCFV7	156458187X	25452426	The Complete Medicinal Herbal: A Practical Guide to the Healing Properties of Herbs, with More Than 250 Remedies for Common Ailments	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Excellent book for the herbal novice	This book is laid out in a way which makes it perfect for the beginner.  It has pictures of the plants, any usable parts of the plants, as well as common forms that the plant is used in.  The pictures were very helpfull to me in learning to identify different plants, and usable parts.  Listed with all the pictures are explinations of the purpose of the herb, and usually a historical note about how it was used centuries ago.  Also listed are cautions, about when someone should not take a particular herb.<br />Secondly, this book has a wonderfull step-by-step instruction guide for making infussions, tinctures, salves, essential oils, decoctions, and capsules out of the plant.  Detailed instructions and pictures show each step of the process so well it would be hard to mess it up!  There are also instructions and pictures about drying herbs, how to store them, and when to harvest them.<br />Thirdly, there is a guide of common ailments and a listing of herbs which are usefull with the particular ailment, along with contraindications that would mean the herb should not be used(along with the page number for more information).  I have used this many times for a quick check before heading to my local apocathary to know what I should get.<br />This book is well organised, and the information is easy to find and logically put together.<br />This would probably not be an incridibly usefull book to an experienced practitioner because I thought there could have been more in depth information about many of the herbs.  It mostly gives a general overview.  Most of the valuable information does seem geared towards a novice, simply because most experienced practitioners would already know most of the basics contained in this book.  Still, this is one book I would think any herbalist of any experience level would like to own.	2002-10-14
US	50429811	R22714I2VFUTL7	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable by adults as well as children	This is the first of a great series about Harry Potter.  It has a solid plot which is enjoyable by those of all ages.  When my kids get old enough for a big book, this is on the list to read to them.  This is a book which you can read more than once, and get something more out of it each time.  Pay attention, for minor events have bigger roles in the future books!	2002-10-13
US	50429811	R1O2WV9X48OUC9	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How to Run a revoloution, Loonie Style	Set in a future penile colony on the moon, this book details the events in the life of a computer technitian, Mannie, who befreinds Mike, a computer just waking up to self-awareness.  Mike is a well done AI charachter, as are all the charachters, but only a few know of him.  He is the key to success of the plan to get rid of the controlling prison corperation who is in controll of life on Luna.<br />While I usually don't like books written in first person from one charachters point of view, I did not find it difficult at all because it is so well done. Heinlein has a talent for writing which can cover any style, even local vernacular, as this one is. I found myself typing in 'loonie' speak several times in the last week while re-reading this book.<br />This book also shows the intense study Heinlen put into social and political study before writing this book. There are many details of politics, negotiation, government, and human nature discussed, mostly from the point of view of 'Prof', a pivitol charachter who has monumental influence on the freeing of Luna.<br />Such social concepts as different forms of marriage such a polyandaries, group marriages, and line marriages are commonplace on Luna due to the different kinds of social and finantial dynamics in the prison colony. The main characher is part of a line marriage, which I found to be an intriguing concept.<br />This book is a classic of sience fiction.  This riviting book will make you laugh, cry, and empathise with the people within.  Highly recomended.	2002-10-13
US	50429811	RASUU8VVSGJXU	0439139600	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A more mature book in the Harry Potter Series	This is the longest, and most intense book in terms of suspense and drama in the Harry Potter series thus far.  Once again, an excellent book as are the rest, much longer.  Get this along with the rest of the series.  Harry Potter is participating in a contest against students from two other schools, as well as one student from his own school in a dangerous contest of wizardry which lasts through the school year.<br />This book delves more into the dark arts of the magical world, and Harry's intense struggle against those evil forces.  The previous books are also brought into play here and charachters and events are tied together, so you should deffinitly read the books in thier order.	2002-10-13
US	50429811	R1CTH9CUC3TRIV	0835911055	912995167	Star Trek Next Generation: Q-In-Law	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hilarious!  Fun to read	It's been a while since I read this book, but I think I need to go buy it again(lost last copy) since it was such a fun book to read.  It's not heavy on an intricate plot(heavy, intricate plots can get old if that's all you have anyway) but it doesn't come across as flat or predictable either.  If you're in need of some humor and fun, with just the right ammount of seriousness thrown in, read this book!	2002-10-05
US	50429811	RM6ACQQX6N79F	0671025384	71369950	Imzadi II: Triangle (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I was a little disapointed, but not too much	There is a lot of action, suspense, and some seriously complicated relationships are explained in-depth.  I enjoyed it, but not as much as the first book.  Several charachters are brought in that were not in the last book, even Thomas Riker(if you remember that transported accident in which Riker was duplicated) which adds quite an interresting plot.  There were still a few questions which I don't think were answered well enough but the book contains betrayal, romulans....and I thought of writing more but don't want to ruin the reading experience of discovering it for yourself.	2002-10-05
US	50429811	R2BWADNYBL6MXN	0671024442	693749823	I, Q (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Q....the trixter, the father, the husband, the conundrum....	The Q continum turned inside out and back again.  This fleshes out the charachter of Q and shows sides of him that you would hardly know, and shows parts of Q that he would probably rather you not know are there when he is in top form.  He goes through his fun, through peril, through dispair, and out again.  A good read.	2002-10-05
US	50429811	R1VHJ8Z582B6WL	0671891510	567743757	Q-Squared (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A battle for power, powerfully written	I couldn't put this book down, I just had to keep reading it to find out where it went next.  This tells a story of a great battle of good and evil held within the charachters.  A must for anyone wanting to know Q better.  Q is the archtype of the trixter who may play anoying pranks, even to the point of being dangerous, but when it comes down to the line, he's on the right side.<br />As with any story involving time, the temporal anomolies become quite interresting, but this book handles it all without becoming bogged down in techno-babble or losing the story in the midst of the confusion.  Peter David is truly a master of weaving the world of Star Trek.	2002-10-05
US	50429811	R2MAGF3PNN5IYG	0553382179	365202529	Sink Reflections: Overwhelmed? Disorganized? Living in Chaos? Discover the Secrets That Have Changed the Lives of More Than Half a Million Families...	Books	5	40	43	N	N	It's a wonderfull plan, and has helped me tremendously	I would also like to write a note about the &quot;religious agenda&quot; that one reviewer here mentioned.  Yes, Flylady does mention God, and religious phrases in places, but I can hardly say this book has a religious agenda.  I'm a pagan as well(so would in no way be out to further any 'religious agenda' of Flylady's), and have been a member of Flylady's helping list for a long time.  Anything she has to say of a religious nature in relation to cleaning is something that is meant in a sincerly helpfull way.  There are times I will think of her 'God breezes' as 'Goddess breses' or 'Frigga(norse goddess, patron of home and hearth) breses' ;-)  But yes, you can tell Marla is a Christian, and that her beliefs are enmeshed with her life, but hey! I'm a pagan, and my beliefs are enmeshed with my life and I can find the same kinds of messages from my religion!<br />Anyway, This book is a compilation of the e-mails and website material.  I think it's a wonderfull thing to have around if you're like me and getting on the computer to check your e-mail is something that really puts a hold on your progress.  It's also easier to find needed information in the book rather than the website.<br />I'm nowhere near perfect at keeping house, but always making progress!!  I have decluttered over 1,000 lbs of STUFF and clutter since starting the flylady program and I don't miss any of it!  I don't feel guilty about keeping the things that are precious to me because those things are now nicely displayed/framed, and they bring more joy to my life now that all the other stuff isn't getting in the way.<br />The Flylady program has made life much better for me and my family. :-)<br />I would also like to reccomend 'Home Comforts: The art and science of keeping house which is a very in-depth book with a lot of information about cleaning things, washing things, and our outlook on our homes.	2002-10-04
US	50429811	R3STWSJDUG2GPV	0671867296	173123212	Imzadi (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who would William T Riker become without his Imzadi?	This is an incredible undertaking for Peter David.  To delve deep into the past of William Riker and Dianna Troi's relationship, as well as an alternate future.  But what lengths will Riker go to change his past, and thier future together?  What lies in the past for these two....and what happened that caused them to not see or speak to each other until they met once again on the bridge of the Enterprise?<br />This book answers these questions and many more.  Peter David has captured the charachters with accuracy and understanding.  We see intense action, witty dialogue, and romance and danger.  An expansive novel, this should be a part of any TNG fan's collection.	2002-08-01
US	50429811	R9PJ3FMWBHV5N	0345328116	342043542	Starman Jones	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A fun book about growing up	Young Jones is a farmer, who hates being a farmer and can think of nothing better than to head out into space.  His uncle was an astrogator, and left his books to Jones when he died.  After an upheval of his home life(which he wasn't really attached to anyway) he decides it's time to head out on his own, hopefully to become an astrogator.<br />Being young and nieve, he makes some bad calls in charachters of someone he meets on the way, and finds out the hard way that you can't trust everyone who seems nice.  I'd write more, but don't want to give away the storyline.  Being one of heinlein's early 'juvies' this book isn't as involved as his later and better known works, and at times I felt it was too predictable.  But, Heinlein was a master of portraying people, thier dreams and desires and fears.<br />This is a fun young adult book about growing up.	2002-08-01
US	50429811	RRWE0UPVM6OTU	0345353730	2944439	Tunnel in the Sky	Books	5	36	38	N	N	I've read this many times, it's always great.	This is an excellent adventure by the main charachter.  I always enjoy the libertarian viewpoints countered with the mostly socialist/communist settings he portrays.  Heinlein has this theme in many of his books, of moving from bondage in an overly controled society(and includes well thought out reasons to how society progressed to that state), to freedom and anarchary, then finding equilibriam between the two in a free, but structured society(this is also a strong theme in 'The Moon is a Harsh Mistress').  This book couples that theme with coming of age, and survival.  When I first read this book when I was 13 it prompted me to learn about survival and gardening, and when I just re-read it a few weeks ago(I'm 24 now) I reflected on the state of government and our place within.  A thought-provoking, funny at times, tragic at times, and in all excellent as Heinlein always is.  I highly reccomend this book.	2002-08-01
US	50429811	RRDH2G0RHF6H4	0671541730	31978101	Dyson Sphere (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 50)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Glad I didn't pay for it.(ADDENDUM BELOW)	I have read a number of Star Trek:TNG novles and this was the latest I've read. I was glad when I finished that I checked it out at the library rather than buying it, I would have been upset at the wasted money.<br />For starters the charachters are not well developed at all, even for charachters who we all know from watching the TV series and reading the other books avalible. They also make decisions and handle events in a way that just doesn't seem quite right. They start making conclusions as to the makers of the sphere and start talking about the Borg with very little and shaky evidence to come to that conclusion. Next, for something with SO MUCH potential as the subject matter, the incridible expanse of the Dyson's Sphere, it could have been much better. It wasn't a very 'beliveable' plot(even considering that Star Trek is all made up anyway) and I found the ending rather dissapointing.<br />I'd reccomend any of the books by Peter David in the ST:TNG series, they're all good to excellent in quality and much better to read.<br />ADDENDUM:  It's been several months since I wrote this review, but I felt I must add this note even though it will cost me a positive vote from the previous review.  I have recently read 'Ringworld' and will soon read it's sequal.  There are so many aspects of 'Dyson Sphere' which are such a ... of Ringworld and it's sequal, only set to a Star Trek TNG theme.  My already low opinion of this book dropped further after reading these other books which preceded this one by a number of years.  Forget 'Dyson's Spere' read 'Ringworld' and it's sequals for a better story instead.	2002-08-01
US	50429811	R2483ANHC2C4N	0812534085	731768700	The Ivory and the Horn (Newford)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Enjoyable	I haven't read a lot of DeLint's work, but this and his other two  collections of short stories I found to be enchanting.  I espically like  that you find the same charachters in several of the stories, but from  different perspectives so you really get to know the charachters.  It's  realistic in the way that people interact with thier circles of friends and  the magical element is refreshing and makes you open your eyes to the world  around you.......you may find yourself looking for the faries in the park  without realising it after reading this book.	2000-09-05
US	50429811	R1Y9LYNL2NUI1C	0451456394	334839526	Steel Rose	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A magical story of triumph	This book starts in a light hearted ritual to summon a spirit.  Constructed on a whim from our heroine of the book, she is much surprised when it actually works and she ends up with two new friends who lead her into all sorts of situations and new friends.<br />This beat-of-the-city fantacy is intense, involving an array of beings from the spectrum of spiritual creatures.  The powers of light and dark are head to head in a battle which could destroy, or forever change the city.  And this quirky performance artist holds the key to ending it.	2000-09-05
US	50429811	RN3UDJ9N13DGB	1567181740	693494980	Esoteric Rune Magic: The Elder Futhark in Magic, Astral Projection and Spiritual Development (Llewellyn's World Magic)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good Book,	I liked the relaxation and visualization exercises in it.  The interpretations of the runes are good, and the book is easily readable.  I enjoyed it, but there wasn't anything really outstanding about it.  I would  reccomend it for people interrested in studying runes.	2000-07-04
US	50429811	R2XM2A17HNZ3F	0553095455	325252272	Rhinegold	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Looks like ya either love it or hate it....and I love it!	I've read all the reviews here thus far and now figure that you either love it or hate it.  I loved it as well as the sequal Atillas treasure.  I can see how the charachters can get tiresome as some of the reviews have  said, but Grundy is also working from the Nebeilungelied here and has made  a good atempt to stick to Myth.<br />You may also be intererrested to know  that this author has writen other books about Asatru(norse religion) under  another penname.....the books are Teutonic Religion and Teutonic Magic.  I  reccomend both of those although his style is a bit flowery on the rituals  for my taste.	2000-04-13
US	50429811	RXEXQ6VLNCWK7	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A refrence I turn to again and again	I have had this book for three years now and have found the information to be usefull, easy-to-find, and even an enjoyable read when I'm in the right mood. Both the bad reviews and the good reviews here have truth to them. Yes, it is chatty. Yes, the author does go on about her own life experiences. Yes, she does seem to forget some people are not able to afford the best of everything and in the quantities(6 sets of towles per person in household)she feels are \\"nessicary\\"...but still, it is a good book to have. This much information in one place about so many different realms of keeping house is so nice to have around when you need it. Although chatty, I found this to be an enjoyable personal touch to the book, a glimpse into how another person lives and thinks.<br />The author also explains WHY she does things a certain way rather than demanding everyone do things her way or the highway.  This is helpfull in determining if those same methods are best for me, and gives a guideline for determining what the best cleaning and organising method is for my own home.  She also gives a historical perspective on how 'spring cleaning' came about, why it is mostly outdated, but that it is still good to have a cleaning overhaul of the house.  This helped me decide that spring cleaning could simply be one extra chore added per week over the period of a few months, rather than cleaning like a madwoman for a week as I have known some people to do.<br />I also enjoyed her section of mealtimes, and serving foods.  While certainly more formal than what I will do for small kids at home, it inspired me with some great ideas for dinner parties and more formal occasions.<br />This book was a great start for me in setting up my own cleaning routines and forming good habits which I have been able to better polish with the Flylady program(look up \\"Sink Reflections\\"). The attention to detail made me think of this in my home as well....and I found it wasn't that hard or time consuming to notice the dust and stuff that finds it's way to the corners at the baseboards and floor, and just wipe it up! It also wasn't that hard to take an extra 3 seconds to tuck up the corners while making the bed so they look neater. I may not agree with everything in the book, but where I disagree I just do it my way....all the while being well informed of why I'm doing it my way! :-)otice the dust and stuff that finds it's way to the corners at the baseboards and floor, and just wipe it up! It also wasn't that hard to take an extra 3 seconds to tuck up the corners while making the bed so they look neater. I may not agree with everything in the book, but where I disagree I just do it my way....all the while being well informed of why I'm doing it my way! :-)	2000-03-16
