US	50424166	R2VMUHAG4VREKS	0316655880	69672774	Honeymoon: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	In the tradition of Bridget Jones...	It seems that the world of women's fiction is hopping with a new trend... twenty to thirtsomethings looking for the love of their lives while finding theirselves.  You've got many to chose from, _Animal Husbandry_, _Dating Big Bird_, _Getting Over It_, _Jemmima J_, the classic _Bridget Jones' Diary_, the list goes on and on.  But what if the thirtysomething was already married?  That's the twist that Amy Jenkins spins on this new trend in writing that is rapidly becoming old hat.  While _Honeymoon_ is definitely not the most profound piece of writing that you will ever encounter, I found the characters to be well developed and the plot to be very unique and interesting.  The plot device of soul mates has always held my attention and the way that Amy Jenkins spices it up is absolutely delicious.  Honey is a sympathetic character that has many facets to her personality- it is easy for the reader to identify with her struggles while wondering what choice Honey will have to make.  The secondary characters of Ed, Mac, Ven, Della, and Paul were delightful and when I grew a little tired of Honey's rantings, their stories were lovely to read about.  Amy Jenkins is a very talented writer and though I havn't seen her television series, I'm excited to look for her movie _Elephant Juice_.  She kept the plot moving and mixed enough pop culture into the book to keep it easy to identify with.  Although some of the situations that Honey managed to get herself into were a little unbelievable, on the whole I found _Honeymoon_ to be a wonderful, lite read to pick up on an afternoon when I had nothing else planned.  It's a wonderful break from reality and I'd recommend it to anyone looking for a good laugh (as I found myself chuckling out loud many times) and a cute story.	2002-02-23
US	50424166	R3Q5JL24Z0Z12J	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Get ready for a treat!	Nora Roberts is one of those authors you could never get tired of.  Most authors produce a new book every year or so, but this is not the case with Ms. Roberts.  Every few months, she cranks out something new- to the delight of her fans.  you will always find the bookstores full of her latest books, which are always well written and special.  My favorite thing about Nora Roberts, however, is her ability to conjur up enchanting trilogies.  Her previous triology was breathtaking and I was very sad to see it end.  Ms. Roberts has started another fabulous trio, however, and book lovers everywhere will devour her latest offering.  The mystical aspect of it is delightful and the Three Sister's Island setting very quaint and charming.  Although I live on the wrong coast to know if her descriptions are acurate, they will make you wish you live in New England.  _Dance Upon the Air_ is a little fluffy and there is no pressing need to read it- it won't change your opinions of the world or really make you think about something.  But, it is the perfect book to read curled up by the fire and I thoroughly enjoyed getting lost in it.  Ms. Roberts' prose is enjoyable and her ideas are creative.  All in all, it is an enjoyable read that I would highly reccommend to book lovers.  I can't wait for the next book!	2001-10-20
US	50424166	R107SR56HLXKIK	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I've still got a smile on my face...	Oh my goodness, _One for the Money_ is one of the most hysterical books I've ever read.  Stephanie Plum is one kicking chick and a total joy to read about.  _One for the Money_ is so fast paced and addicting that I read it in one sitting.  Janet Evanovich really puts all she has into her first mystery novel and it shows.  The story line is unique, her main character, Stephanie Plum, is so well developed you can practically see her, and the suspense is masterful.  One book is definitely not enough and I would suggest buying at least two more books in the series before starting this one because you will want to read these books as fast as you can.  I just can't say enough good things about _One for the Money_ and the whole Stephanie Plum series.  It's got everything you could ever want in a book/series.  One amazing main character, spicy secondary characters, and a plot/ writing style so addicting you can't put the book down.  Stop reading reviews about this book and pick up _One for the Money_!  Right now!	2001-10-20
US	50424166	R1K4921KDQXOR5	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Oh, wow!	I don't even know where to begin... _Memoirs of a Geisha_ is one of those books that will truly leave you breathless.  I'd been hearing about this book ever since it came out, but it wasn't until one of my very good friends forced it into my hands that I actually read it.  I'll spare you a summary of the plot, because others have done it better then I could, and frankly there's so much to this book that you could hardly describe it to it's fullest.  _Memoirs of a Geisha_ is a book that you will want to read slowly and draw it out as long as you can.  The way Arthur Golden describes Japan and the world of the Geisha is amazing.  All western misconceptions of this world are put to the test and the truth about Geisha really come out.  You are swept into their world and Mr. Golden's prose.  Sayuri is character that you feel you know from the inside out and it is hard to believe that Mr. Golden is an American man, for the book flows perfectly from a Japanese woman's perspective.  There is never a dull moment and I often found myself re-reading many sections just to get the full affect and power of his words.  _Memoirs of a Geisha_ is masterfully contructed to the point where you can close you eyes and see Japan.  Honestly, I would be surprised if you haven't heard of this book until now, and if you havn't read it yet, don't waste another minute.  You will be blown away by this epic, amazing book.  Bravo, Mr. Golden- I can't wait to see what else you bless the book world with.	2001-10-12
US	50424166	RZU577XVL6FME	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Emotionally draining, but a fantastic read!	Let me start out by saying that I have never before read a book by Joyce Carol Oates nor a book about Marilyn Monroe.  When all of the publicity came out about the mini series, I got interested and picked up a copy.  Let me just say that _Blonde_ blew me away.  If you're looking for a book about Marilyn Monroe, I'd suggest to look elsewhere as the concept behind this book isn't really the life of Monroe but rather Norma Jeane Baker.  Joyce Carol Oates takes a look at the girl/woman that Norma Jeane might have been.  _Blonde_ is told from Norma Jeane's eyes.  Another thing for Marilyn fanatics to be careful of is the fact that this book is fiction.  Ms. Oates took a lot of liberties with gossip and myths about the larger then life Marilyn Monroe and used them in her story.  She makes Norma Jeane into a complex character with many problems but a character that compells the reader to keep on reading.  _Blonde_ is about the transformation of Norma Jeane Baker to Marilyn Monroe and her trials along the way.  And it is excellently written.  Joyce Carol Oates does get a bit tedious at times, but her writing is fascinating and her ideas definitely push the envelope.  _Blonde_ is a horrific, beautiful, crazy account of one of the most influential movie stars of our time.  Reading it is emotionally draining but a wonderful experience and the book won't stay closed.  Yes, it is a bit long, but the pages will fly by and by the time you finish, you will be wishing to read more about the fagile butterfly that was Norma Jeane.  The sympathy and feeling that Ms. Oates injects into her book is visible and lovely.  This is a sad book, but reading it is such an experience that you really must pick it up for yourself.  There is a reason why Ms. Oates has so many fans and has had such a wonderful long career... and it's evident in her masterpiece.  If you enjoy being moved by a book, I would suggest _Blonde_.	2001-07-05
US	50424166	R264AI69NF1TR7	074340355X	555970377	Starlight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pure magic!	This is the first book that I've ever read by Miranda Jarrett, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  She has a fresh writing style and manages to find a time period which hasn't been totally stomped by either the harlequin era or the medieval era.  Her story is quaint and refreshing while her overall tone is still recognizeable enough for historical romance fans.<br />Cora McGillivray is in hiding.  Her whole family was killed in the battle of Culloden and she has been sent to England to stay with a friend of her father's in England.  For two years, Cora has lived in secret with her father's friend in fear of being hung for a traitor.  Her only friend has been a wayward little kitten with seven toes and a white, star shaped patch on his forehead.  Meanwhile, Alex and Diana Fairbourne have just arrived in London from the colonies.  Alex is given the job of Diana's keeper and Diana is determined to find a husband.  Their first day on the island, they meet with a mysterious woman who gives them a kitten saying that the little creature will lead both of them to true love.  This kitten also happens to be Cora's kitten. <br />Diana is staying in the same household as Cora.  Cora and Alex meet out in the garden over a kitten fight and both are immediatly attracted and drawn to the other.  What ensues is an engaging story about true love, magic, and kittens.  <br />Miranda Jarrett has a subtle talent for detail and many things are snuck into _Starlight_.  I immensley enjoyed the fresh time period and the information about Culloden.  _Starlight_ was by no means a heavy book and it was perfect for a historical, light, romance.  Cora and Alex were, overall, very defined characters that were pleasent to read about.  Most of their actions had clear meanings behind them.  The plot was interesting with the new element of a kitten finding true love and it moved along at a snappy pace.  The setting came alive and moved around the reader and the overall tone of the book is engrossing enoughto keep up late into the night.  Miranda Jarrett's sense of humor is not as pronounced as, say, Susan Elizabeth Phillips's but it is enjoyable and you will probably get a few laughs from this book.<br />The only complaints that I have are few.  Cora was an overall complex character with a well thought out personality, but when it came to her belief that Alex was the man her father said he would send to take her home, she was extremely niave.  Her stuborness and blind faith got a little tiresome after a while.  The villain was very believable at the begining of _Starlight_, but as the plot progressed, his motives got muddier and muddier and by the end, his intent was so mangled that it was hard to see him as a true character.<br />Still, these are not enough to lower my opinion of the book, and overall it is very well written.  I would suggest this book to romance fans who have gotten tired of the same plot found in romance novels and want something new.  It is engrossing, well written, and enchanting.  It's also a great book for cat lovers, as the kitten in it is fantasticly adorable.	2001-06-12
US	50424166	R17F5CN9IXAZ6V	0449149676	542957512	On Mystic Lake: A Novel	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Absolutely terrific!	You don't know what you're missing if you've never read a book by Kristin Hannah, and _On Mystic Lake_ is one of the absolute best books ever written.  The characters come alive and endear themselves to your heart.  Annie is down to earth and easy to read about.  Izzie, the little girl who needs to find her way into the world again is precious and Nick is the type of character whom you wish you could jump into the book and give a hug to.  _On Mystic Lake_ is by no means &quot;lite reading&quot;.  The main character, Annie, is getting a divorce from her husband who claims to love another woman.  Trying to come to grips with her failing marriage, Annie returns home to Mystic to spend some time with her father.  There she meets up with her first love, Nick, who chose her best friend over her, breaking Annie's heart.  It turns out that Nick's wife (Annie's old best friend) has died leaving Nick and his daughter Izzie devestated.  When the three first get together, it's sort of like the blind leading the blind.  They are all so hurt that it is hard to see who needs more help.  But, Annie brings healing to Izzie's soul, the little girl mends Annie's heart, and a love rekindles between Nick and Annie.  Still, things are not that easy, and a conflict makes the world harder in Mystic.  Kristin Hannah is an amazingly gifted author and her talent shines in _On Mystic Lake_.  Her descriptive writing will take you to another place- a little logging town in Washington where mist floats above the ground and life moves at a slower pace.  This is a beautiful book about three healing souls who learn that bad things do happen but you can get around them. I'd recomend _On Mystic Lake_ to anyone who enjoys putting down a book with a sense that the world is a wonderful place and they can do something to make it better.	2001-06-03
US	50424166	R3V85G4M21FY7I	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Oh, Bridget!	Okay, okay, it's not a great piece of literature.  For those looking for a stimulating, challengning novel, head for the hills!  But, if you're looking for a hilarious, different book about what some women think like, _Bridget Jones's Diary_ is for you.  It's not a long read- most will finish it in a day or two and it depicts the fantasticly funny adventures of one Bridget Jones.  How to describe Bridget?  Well, you'd have to figure it out for yourself.  She figures that her New Years resolutions don't apply to January first because everyone knows that the New Year really starts on January second.  I couldn't believe the situations Bridget managed to get herself into.  Most of them had me rolling on the floor with laughter.  This book is not meant to be taken too seriously.  Bridget is a bit of an alcoholic and totally obsessed with everything in her life, but she does seem to be real and most women (and maybe some men!) will see a little bit of Bridget in themselves.  Plus, we get a whole new vocabulary with this book.  Hurrah for the singletons!  _Bridget Jones's Diary_ is the perfect little book for a pick me up on a sad day and will probably keep you reading into the night.  For those looking for a painfully funny book that's pretty down to earth, pick up _Bridget Jones's Diary_.	2001-06-03
US	50424166	R16U864HJTHZ32	0671014188	624491085	The Summerhouse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Twice in a lifetime...	After taking some time to spend with her new baby, Jude Deveraux has finally come back to the writing scene.  She burst back in with the wonderful _Temptation_, she gave us a teaser in _A Season in the Highlands_ and now she's got her next fabulous book- _The Summerhouse_.  I bought literally sight unseesn, but I had a little apprehension and didn't know if my hard earned money would be wasted on buying this in hardcover.  Let me tell you, this book was worth every penny.  Haven't we all wondered about what we would change in our lives?  That one that got away, the plane we didn't take, the vacation plans that fell through...  Everyone always wishes they could change something.  The three main characters in _The Summerhouse_ get that chance.  Jude Deveraux brings her book alive and the plot is fantastic.  Leave it to Ms. Deveraux to dig up an old storyline and make it fresh and exciting.  She revived time travel with _A Knight in Shining Armor_, and she has now put a new twist to it in _The Summerhouse_.  Sure, it's not totally 100% perfect- the ending is a little choppy, but it's not enough to bring down my opinion of this book.  For all of you Jude Deveraux fans who've been missing her, she's back and stronger then ever with _The Summerhouse_.  This is one book you've got to read.	2001-06-03
US	50424166	RYT5N29Z96DBT	0671747150	728771067	Fancy Pants	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Ehhhh....	I definitely have mixed feelings about _Fancy Pants_.  Susan Elizabeth Phillips is one of my all time favorite authors and the first book of hers that  I read was _Lady Be Good_.  I fell in love with Francie and Dallie in that book and couldn't wait ot read more about them.  _Fancy Pants_ somehow manages to fall flat.  I was looking for some SEP belly laughs to come out of this one and I was sourly dissapointed.  Basically, _Fancy Pants_ felt too long.  SEP takes about fifty pages to actually start talking about Francie, another fifty to introduce Dallie and then another hundred to actually get them together.  When they actually have a little fling, there is no real passion or heat between them.  Dallie comes off as an abusive, unsuccessful golfer, and Francie seems like a spoiled little rich girl.  The book gets better in the second half.  Francie becomes a lot more down to Earth and a lot easier to like.  She becomes a lot like a person I would like to know and not one that I would never get along with.  Unfortunately, Dallie doesn't change too much and it seems like he didn't deserve Francie or their son.  SEP does the whole eighties thing where she doesn't focus on the story that she's pushing (the relationship between Francie and Dallie) and moves totally off the subject to talk about Francie's grandmother and mother, her every acquaintence, and just about every single person who makes an appearence in the book.  I totally did not understand or appreciate the telling of Dallie and Holly Grace's love story.  It slowed the book down and wasn't all that interesting.  Still, SEP shows her promise in this book and there are some of her traits hidden in areas that reveal what is to come in the future.  For die hard SEP fans, _Fancy Pants_ is an okay read.  For new comers, stick with the new stuff.  Her Chicago Stars series is absolutely fantastic and _Kiss an Angel_ as well as _Lady Be Good_ are must reads.	2001-05-27
US	50424166	R3MSU8W8Z84NA6	0385319037	863089890	Animal Husbandry	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quick and light...	Okay, _Animal Husbandry_ is not the Great American Novel.  If that's what you're looking for, I'd suggest that you run the other way.  _Animal Husbandry_ is not a saga about the meaning of life but rather about one horribly bitter woman.  The book is a little hard to get into at first.  The first couple of chapters don't really make sense- the sentence structure is not there at all and the ideas that are thrown out don't connect.  But, it's very quick reading and before you know it, Laura Zigman has found her niche and her writing style becomes very enjoyable and engrossing.  Jane really is a bitter character, but that's what makes her so fun.  And the New Cow Theory- hum.  It will outrage some people and find a home in some people's hearts.  I was in the middle- it made sense but it wouldn't apply it to real life.  Laura Zigman definitely shows promise with her first book.  As many people before me have noted, it seems as though Ms. Zigman has had a personal experience with someone like Ray and writing _Animal Husbandry_ has been like a sort of writing therapy for her.  At the begining, she's as bitter as Jane, but the two visibly heal by the end of the book.  I saw the movie before I bought the book, and I was pleasently happy with the way it turned out.  The movie is a bit sweeter, but _Animal Husbandry_ has more spunk.  Laura Zigman shows promise of becoming a great author and I look forward to reading _Dating Big Bird_ which sounds a little more creatvie and detached from Ms. Zigman's life.	2001-05-27
US	50424166	RZCWSS9VM9F5H	0449006344	781244785	Angel Falls: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heart wrenching and a break from the norm...	This was my first book by Kristin Hannah and I must say that I was shocked and amazed.  She has an incredible raw talent that shines in this book.  _Angel Falls_ is by no means a conventional &quot;romance&quot; story... infact, I wouldn't even call it that at all.  This book is about much more then just romance, it's a story about love and one man's will to survive.  Mikaela &quot;Mike&quot; Campbell goes into a coma in the first chapter of the book and things are looking pretty grim for her.  All the doctors cannot figure out why she won't wake up.  Her husband, Liam, who is dangeously in love with her, is always by her side and her two children are worried sick.  One night, a secret long burried is discovered and Mike shows signs of waking up for love- but not for love of her children or husband.  For Mike has a secret- an obsession over a selfish man who broke her heart.  Will Liam be able to overcome the obsticals thrown at him to put his family back together?  Will Mike even wake up?  _Angel Falls_ is a nail bitter and a five hanky read.  Poor Liam is put through so much, but his love for his wife is so strong that he is willing to do anything for her- even bring back the one man that could destroy everything.  The interesting thing about Mikaela's situation is that all these things are being said about her, but she is not there to tell the truth because of her coma.  There are many parts where she is made out to be a selfish, conniving woman and because of this, the reader is a little put off by her.  Still, Kristin Hannah has amazing power as an author.  Her descriptions of Washington's mountains are stunning and will sweep you away to a place where your neighbors live a half a mile away from you.  The character developement is stunning.  It was not an all time keeper for me because of some of Mike's situation, but I'm breathlessly anticipating another book by Kristin Hannah.  Even in books that are not living up to their full potential (as in _Angel Falls_)she is still an incredible writer.	2001-05-27
US	50424166	R17KWSWTFRST5O	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Absolutely fantastic!	Okay, I've got to be honest.  This is only my second book by Jennifer Crusie.  I wasn't too thrilled with _Crazy for You_ but I wanted to give Jennifer Crusie another try and _Welcome to Temptation_ just jumped off the shelf at me (come on, with a name like that you've got to be intrigued).  Well, this is it.  One of the best humorous romances that I have ever read.  Imagine the funniest thing you can think of, multiply it by ten, and you might have a tiny idea of how funny this book is.  Water towers resembling sex organs, apple wall paper that looks like blue cherries, soft porn movies, pool, it's all in here.  Jennifer Crusie really comes alive with _Welcome to Temptation_ and goes all out with her book.  Sophie and Phin are perfect and Temptation is just the kind of town that old movies were made in.  Jennifer Crusie brings it all to life and what results is a page turner that will make you laugh until you cry.  Not to mention how incredibly sexy it is... whoa!  This book is practically steaming.  _Welcome to Temptation_ is a wonderful, off beat fairy tale that will move it's way into your heart.  I'd give it a higher rating if I could.  Thank you, Jennifer Crusie!  You're book is a masterpiece that is immensly enjoyable.  Now, go out and get this book, NOW!	2001-05-01
US	50424166	REUT8DGMD3VCZ	0312971125	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great humorous romance with a little real life mixed in!	I have been a big fan of Susan Elizabeth Phillips for a long time and Jennifer Crusie is definitely a name that is coupled together with SEP.  Romance readers have come to expect humorous love stories from these two and hold high respect for their work.  After hearing her name for about a hundred times, I decided to give Jennifer Crusie a try.  I've gone through SEP's backlist and wanted a good funny romance.  _Crazy For You_ was definitely a different type of romance.  I really liked getting to know Quinn and I think that most of the readers of this book could identify with her.  In a sense, this book was not a total romance becuase it was a little more down to earth then most books in this genre.  Quinn had more flaws (a wonderful trait) and her romance with Nick was a little more like something you could expect in real life (refreshing!).  Jennifer Crusie has lovely writing style that enchants you from the first page.  She definitely has an underlying sense of humor running throughout her books and a lot of one line zingers that will leave you in stiches.  The only thing that puzzles me is how this book got pegged as a mystery/suspense.  The whole book you know who the &quot;bad guy&quot; is, and it never really seems like there is any real danger up until the very end.  But, minor problem, didn't bother me at all.  Dog lovers will especially enjoy this book as a little mut plays a major supporting roll.  All in all, I like Jennifer Crusie's style.  If you're looking for something similar to Susan Elizabeth Phillips, give one of her books a go!  I really enjoyed _Crazy For You_ and I cannot wait to read more of Ms. Crusie's work.	2001-05-01
US	50424166	R1AVH6EX0265S5	0380975726	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Classic Susan Elizabeth Phillips!	Susan Elizabeth Phillips has got to be one of my all time favorite authors. Her unique combination of belly laughs and tears has earned her many fans and her newest book, _This Heart of Mine_ is just as fabulous as her previous books.  It definitely has some parts that are harder core and it is not as sugar coated as some of her earlier books.  But, _This Heart of Mine_ is definitely heartfelt, well written, and thoroughly engrossing.  The characters jump off the page and right into your heart.  The plot moves right along and never stays in one place too long.  SEP's writing is still as fresh and funny as it's always been.  One addition to her book that I really enjoyed was the clips of Molly's writing stuck in at the begining of each chapter.  The last book in SEP's famous Stars' football series (_It Had To Be You_, _Heaven, Texas_, _Nobody's Baby But Mine_, and _Dream a Little Dream_), _This Heart of Mine_ ties everything up quite nicely.  There are a couple lovely scenes with old characters from the other books that feel like visiting old friends.  _This Heart of Mine_ is a great book for old fans and it will definitely earn her some new ones.	2001-04-14
US	50424166	R3JPUZAW1ND3TI	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Compelling!	Unlike most of the reviewers of _A Painted House_, I have never before read a book by John Grisham.  Now it's not like I've been hiding under a rock and I have a couple of his books waiting to be read.  But until _A Painted House_ came out I never actually read his work.  I was amazed at his talent and I'm kicking myself for not reading some of his work earlier.  Okay, if you're looking for a good lawyer book fix, run the other way as _A Painted House_ has not a trace of a lawyer in it.  Infact, the main character is a little boy working in his family's cotton field and wants to be a baseball player when he grows up.  Not promising for people looking for a courtroom drama or a thriller.  Still, _A Painted House_ is an utterly compelling piece of literature and it quite acurately depicts life through the eyes of a little boy.  There is something different about this book that makes it very hard to describe.  It is not like a lot of the books that I have read in the sense that there is no driving force to it- there isn't a mystery or self discorvery plot going on to keep you turning the pages.  It is one of those books that you can set down for two weeks and come back and jump right back into it.  The characters feel like your nextdoor neighbors.  Mr. Grisham obviously couldn't resist adding a little thrill though, so for all of you just dying for some Grisham suspense, there is a tinsy bit at the end.  But don't read it for the suspense; _A Painted House_ is simply a well written book that leaves you feeling good when you're finished.  Mr. Grisham's writing style is one of a kind and makes the book worthwhile.  His characters are down to earth and interesting.  His plot doesn't grab you in the conventional sense but you are always drawn back for more.  _A Painted House_ is truly a fantastic piece of work that will appeal to every literature lover out there.	2001-04-13
US	50424166	R12Y2ULM3K2JY3	0553801813	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A lovely historical that's fresh and engrossing!	This was the first book of Jane Feather's that I have read and I have to say that I was very impressed.  Ms. Feather's work is absolutely amazing... the very first chapter of _The Widow's Kiss_ pulled me right in and gave me a very entertaining read.  Although it is not as strong in romance as some would like, I hardly noticed it.  Ms. Feather's writing is first rate- her characters come alive along with the settings that they are placed in.  She is a superb mystery/suspense writer and _The Widow's Kiss_ proves that she could make a living with her writing outside the romance genre.  The research that went into making _The Widow's Kiss_ accurate is evident and makes the book all the more enjoyable.  Guinevere was truly an amazing heroine that endears herself to you right away.  You sympathize with her struggles for justice and I could not help but fall in love with her daughters.  Although Hugh is a little rough around the edges when he is first introduced he redeemed himself latter on.  The plot in _The Widow's Kiss_ is highly origional and very engrossing.  I had this book with me when I had a three hour airplane layover in Hawaii and was dressed in heavy clothing without shorts and a tank top to change into.  Reading Ms. Feather's work and losing myself in her tale was the only thing that kept me sane.  I was sad to let this book go when I was finished and I can assure you that I will be searching out her work in the future.  For those of you who think that mideval romances are too complicated to get into, I would suggest this book to you.  It is a good intorduction to this sub genre of romance and will get you hooked.  Bravo, Ms. Feather!  _The Widow's Kiss_ is an amazing piece of literature and a must read to anyone out there.	2001-04-12
US	50424166	R39TZ7E1JN50U3	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Endearing, origional, and painfully funny!	I am a big fan of Susan Elizabeth Phillips and _Nobody's Baby But Mine_ has got to be one of my favorites.  Ms. Phillips is the expert at humorous romance and this book had me in stiches.  I've never laughed so hard reading a book before.  Dr. Jane Darlington and Cal Bonner have got to be some of the wildest, most interesting characters I have ever read about.  So the story line is a tinsy bit hard to believe... it doesn't matter.  Ms. Phillips brings her work alive and keeps you reading late into the night.  Her plot was interesting and all of the twists and turns it took held me right until the last word.  Jane and Cal are so fun to read about that you simply can not put this book down.  I just love Ms. Phillips' special combination of laughter and tears- it is the perfect combination and makes her books winners.  Her characters are special individuals with amazing stories and lovely lives.  There are some highly origional scenes in this book.  I will never look at Lucky Charms the same way ever again.	2001-04-12
US	50424166	R2X3CGISDVPQAJ	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An amazing debut book by an author destined to go places!	It is a rare find in the romance world to discover an author so gifted that her very first book can be, well, so very good.  _By Arrangement_ is a wonderful little morsel of a book just waiting to entrap you.  It is a vivid mideval tale that will capture your heart and not let it go.  I was amazed at the amount of historical content that was actually in this book.  As previous reviewers have mentioned, the historical setting usually takes the backseat to the story and is just there to look pretty.  This is not the case in _By Arrangement_.  The historical setting is so much a part of the story that it is almost a character.  The characters themselves are absolutely astounding.  Christiana and David are surprisingly real and it is not hard to imagine that they might have really existed.  Ms. Hunter's historical world came alive and it was very refreshing that she broke away from total nobility so common in historical romance and fucosed on the commoners of England.  Although David is wealthy, he is not of noble blood and there for is looked down upon.  It is amazing the amount of discrimination that commoners went through and Ms. Hunter exposes it in her _By Arrangement_.  Ms. Hunter is a strong new voice in women's fiction and it is absolutely amazing that her books are available in such low prices.  Grab them while you can for it is obvious that she will soon make the jump from paperback to hardcover.  Ms. Hunter is a definite gem added to the romance genre and it is a privelidge to read her amazing work.	2001-04-12
US	50424166	R3I1RO51A94771	0440236525	867766067	The Highlander's Touch (Highlander, Book 3)	Books	3	11	16	N	N	A hard book for me to review...	I have a lot of mixed feelings about _The Highlander's Touch_.  On one hand, I really loved it.  The descriptions were vivid, the characters were interesting, and the author's style was pleasent.  But, I had a lot of problems with the plot devices that Karen Marie Moning used and in the end I found that I just wasn't very pulled into the book.<br />Lisa Stone is a girl definitely down on her luck.  Both of her parents were in a car accident.  Her father was killed and her mother was crippled.  Lisa went from an upper middle class rich girl to a stuggling young woman working two jobs over night.  Her father never filed for life insurance and this totally left her and her mother in a rut.  To make things worse, Lisa's mother contracted cervicle cancer and now the medicle bills are dragging them down.  So, this is how Lisa came to be working in a museum when a new shipment of artifacts came in.  There was an interesting flask from Scotland which Lisa innocently picked up not knowing it was cursed.  She then traveled back in time to mideval Scotland.<br />Circenn Brodie came out of his bath to find a woman standing in front of him dressed in, gasp!, jeans.  He immediatly takes the cursed flask from her and wonders what he should do with Lisa.  While he vowed to kill the bearer of the flask, he does not see how he can kill a woman.  He takes her to his room where they start in on a battle of wits.  Lisa refuses to listen to Circenn and he has to make up many lies about her to explain her arrival to his men.  They ultimately end up bascially married, but the war of the time calls to Circenn leaving many things unresolved with Lisa.<br />Now, _The Highlander's Touch_ sounded like it was going to be wonderful... there was mideval Scotland and timetravel.  This was very promising seeing as how I'm a huge Outlander fan.  But, I never really got to care for Circenn.  He was a very passive male and let everyone around him do as they pleased with out ever really establishing some order.  Lisa was a well developed character and she really saved the book for me.  But, she adjusted to being yanked from her environment unrealistically fast.<br />The begining was overly depressing, and the end was unbearably perfect.  I cannot believe all of the things that Karen Marie Moning added at the end.  If she had left them out, this would definitely have been a five star read for me.  Everything rolled out too well, the ending was too happily ever after....<br />If you like the idea of time travel I'd highly recommend Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series or Jude Deveraux's _A Knight in Shining Armor_.  I will be reading more of Ms. Moning's work, but I was really dissapointed with _The Highlander's Touch_.	2001-02-07
US	50424166	R1NGZPNWXRPWJB	0671039482	995152510	Heat (Fearless #8)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A little more violent then the previous books...	Okay, okay, I know this is a series about a girl who has no fear whatsoever and has these awesome martial arts skills and kicks bad guy's butts, but really, the violence was a little over the top in _Heat_.  The fight scenes are still... well written... but the injuries that Gaia's inflicting on her opponent are starting to get really graphically described.  But, aside from that (and the ending of the book), my complaints are none.  _Heat_ was in a way, one of the best books in the series because it really focuses on character development.  Mary is totally fleshed out for the reader, Ella becomes more defined, and we finally get to learn a little bit more about Gaia's past.  Francine Pascal really takes a step forward with this book and really develops it for her audience.  Aside from some really intense fight scenes, _Heat_ is based mainly on character development.  Plus, Gaia starts coming out of her shell.  _Heat_ takes so many twists and unsuspected turns that it really can be an emotional read.  Francine Pascal broke the regular routine and through in a lot of exciting surprises which was a nice change from the feel that the other books had.  The Fearless series is a must read for action loving, young adults and I'd highly recommend it.	2001-02-06
US	50424166	R25HOPQ29AUVUN	0671039474	750856073	Rebel (Fearless, No. 7)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Truth or Dare?	The seventh installment in the Fearless series is not dissapointing in the least.  Once more, Gaia Moore's world comes alive for the reader.  _Rebel_ is one whole book basically dedicated to the art of Truth or Dare... fearless style.  Mary and Gaia turn the game dangerous and Ed is basically helpless to stop it.  Also, a drug dealer from Mary's past comes out and makes his presence known demanding a debt from Mary.  _Rebel_ bascially carries on with the grand tradition that the books before it set up.  There is Francine Pascal's amazing writing skills combined with her flair for origionality and the usual smattering of well written fight scenes.  I'd recommend the Fearless series to any young adult.	2001-02-06
US	50424166	R1D3I73I1DW53T	0671039490	911671911	Blood (Fearless #9)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Really rather violent...	Gaia's blood lust in this book is really dissapointing to me.  In all of the previous books, she uses her &quot;powers&quot; to help other people and promote goodness.  In the begining of this book she deliberately tries to pick a fight with a drug dealer.  He's not a nice guy, and it would be nice to be rid of some scum like that, but when he refuses to fight her, Gaia calls for the police.  This is done just so she can beat him to a pulp.  I can understand that Gaia's behavior *~ Okay, if you havn't read the previous books... ...We finally start to get more information about Tom Moore, Ella Niven, and Loki Moore.  At the begining of the series, their presences are vague and foggy, but as the series progressed and especially in the last few books, they have become more prominent characters.  Francine Pascal's writing ability still shines true in her books and _Blood_ is no exception.  I'd recommend the Fearless series to all young adults.  Despite this little run in with violence, the books are well written and very interesting.	2001-02-06
US	50424166	R10L918EUEXSGR	0380805685	360399234	Scandal's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Had great potential and lived up to it!	This was my first Stephanie Laurens book and I was happily surprised.  I heard a lot about the Cynster series and I wanted to try one for myself.  _Scandal's Bride_ just jumped off the shelf at me so I decided to give it a go.  Although it was not my favorite book in the whole world, I was interested in the plot and there was enough substance to the book to hold my attention.  Both Richard and Catriona were very well developed characters.  I will admit that in the begining of the book they were in the bedroom so much that they didn't have much substance other then that.  But, the second half of the book really saved it.  The sex scenes in this book, I think, are one of the main reasons for all of it's controversy.  Some people will love all of the steamy scenes, and for a while I did to.  But, the whole first half of the book is nothing but love scenes and after a while they got a little tiring.  The first scene took eleven pages to execute.  And the creativity of these characters... they made love EVERYWHERE.  On a horse, in a feeding trough, in a closet... every place you could imagine.  But, Stephanie Laurens seemed to decide that enough was enough and moved on to the more interesting parts of the book.  I especially enjoyed the visit from the Cynster clan.  Stephanie Laurens has an amzing talent for writing and it shows in her books.  I have one little thing though- there were too many story lines.  She never really followed through with most of them and there were many things left hanging.  But, I really did enjoy this book.  I could relate to Catriona and Richard and I spent at least half of my day with them reading their story.  I'd recommend _Scandal's Bride_ to you and I can't wait to read more in the series.	2001-01-29
US	50424166	R9O5AX309GQUZ	0553580213	671118415	Once a Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 2)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Way too hard to get into...	I've been wanting to read this book ever since it came out, and I finally got the chance to do so a couple of days ago.  It was written poorly.  Susan Krinard obviously has a lot of talent, but it does not make an apperance in _Once A Wolf_.  The characters were too hard to get to know and the plot line was a little too complicated.  I don't usually mind complicated plots, but by the time that I really got into this book, I was not interested in it enough to really pursue all the twists and turns.  Rowena was too stuborn about her werewolf heritage.  Susan Krinard never really gave me a reason as to why Rowena hated her past so much.  Tomas and Cole were interesting, but once Ms. Krinard starting getting into the family conflict, I started getting bored.  There was not much passion in _Once A Wolf_ and as for Rowena and Tomas' relationship, most of the time my electric toothbrush had more electricity in it.  The dreaded Big Misunderstanding at the end just really pushed me away.  I couldn't get into the book.  I would put it down and pick it up a day latter thinking &quot;I wish I could get this done with&quot;.  The paranormal aspects of _Once A Wolf_ didn't put me off at all.  Infact, I wish Ms. Krinard would have spent a little more time in that department.  Ihope Ms. Krinard takes the time to write a book about Esperanza or Weylin... that I would read.  This book did not put me off of Susan Krinard and I'm sure her other books are much better.  You'd be better off just skipping _Once A Wolf_.  Not enough passion, not enough umph in the whole book.  I'm looking for another read by her and I hope it is much better.	2001-01-20
US	50424166	R13U2M56QAOR3N	0380776847	400994620	Heaven, Texas (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A match made in Heaven...	Last week I read _It Had To Be You_, the first book in Susan Elizabeth Phillips' Chicago Stars series.  I loved it and I couldn't wait to get my hands on more.  I was more then satisfied with _Heaven, Texas_.  I know I'm in the minority here, but I enjoyed _Heaven, Texas_ more then _It Had To Be You_.<br />Gracie Snow must bring Bobby Tom Denton back home to Heaven, Texas so that he can begin shooting his first movie.  Bobby Tom was forced into retirement from football when an injury totally damaged his knee.  From then on, Bobby Tom felt like his life had no direction, without football, his soul was gone.  So, he tried different things... signing movie contracts and the like, so that he could find out which one he really liked.  Unfortunately, Bobby Tom had no intention of fulfilling his movie obligations and he was late getting to the location.  So, Windmill pictures sent their production assistant, Gracie Snow after him.<br />Gracie grew up in a nursing home and also ran it for many years.  When Windmill Pictures offered her a job, Gracie pounced on it, hoping to start a new life.  Her first assignment, find Bobby Tom and bring him home.  And so starts a journey for Gracie that will change her life.  On the road with Bobby Tom, Gracie shows her stubborness, but by some miracle manages to get him back to Heaven (aka Telarosa).  As Gracie undergoes a makeover, so does her heart, and she falls madly in love with Bobby Tom.  Can a man who's had women throw themselves at him all his life see that Gracie is the one for him?<br />Now, _It Had To Be You_ was great, but _Heaven, Texas_ was spectacular, and my reasons for favoring it are as follows.  Pheobe from _IHTBY_ was a larger then life heroine.  She was amazingly well fleshed out, and it was easy to get to know her as a character, but no matter how hard I try, I can't see her as a normal person walking down the street because of her larger then life status.  Gracie, on the other hand, could be your next door neighbor.  She's much easier to connect with because the reader gets the feeling that they could have been best friends growing up.  Gracie seemed like she was one of the crowd, and that's why I enjoyed her so much in this book.  Also, she was not drop dead gorgeous.  Infact, in the begining, she's got a bad perm and a bad wardroab.  It's easier for me to think that the scenerio in _Heaven, Texas_ could happen.  Also, Bobby Tom was a wonderfully flawed character.  The rampant emotions that run through him are delightful, and his actions as a character are so well fleshed out that he comes alive along with Gracie.<br />I'd give Susan Elizabeth Phillips two thumbs up to the stratosphere for _Heaven, Texas_.  This book penned from one of romance's susperstars is one not to be missed.  Her humor is sprinkled expertly into the book and every facet of it shines like a gem.  I lost many hours of sleep for reading into the wee hours of the night.  I'm quickly acquiring her books as they're not going to be in paperback much longer... this year, she's making the leap to hardcover.  Brava, SEP!r.  She's much easier to connect with because the reader gets the feeling that they could have been best friends growing up.  Gracie seemed like she was one of the crowd, and that's why I enjoyed her so much in this book.  Also, she was not drop dead gorgeous.  Infact, in the begining, she's got a bad perm and a bad wardroab.  It's easier for me to think that the scenerio in _Heaven, Texas_ could happen.  Also, Bobby Tom was a wonderfully flawed character.  The rampant emotions that run through him are delightful, and his actions as a character are so well fleshed out that he comes alive along with Gracie.<br />I'd give Susan Elizabeth Phillips two thumbs up to the stratosphere for _Heaven, Texas_.  This book penned from one of romance's susperstars is one not to be missed.  Her humor is sprinkled expertly into the book and every facet of it shines like a gem.  I lost many hours of sleep for reading into the wee hours of the night.  I'm quickly acquiring her books as they're not going to be in paperback much longer... this year, she's making the leap to hardcover.  Brava, SEP!	2001-01-04
US	50424166	R29ZMWIQSULNMN	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Not your average romance...	&quot;I guess we're like oil and water.&quot;<br />&quot;I'd say we're more like gasoline and a blowtorch.&quot;<br />This quote from _It Had To Be You_ basically sets the undertone for the whole book.  I love Susan Elizabeth Phillips, and I was thrilled to get my hands on _It Had To Be You_.  I'd heard so many things about her football series that I couldn't wait to read the book that started it all.<br />Pheobe Sommerville just got herself a football team.  After her dog, Pooh, peed on her father's grave, she found out that her father left her his Chicago Stars.  Now, all she has to do is learn what to do with that little ball covered in pig skin called a &quot;football&quot;.  For, even though her father has owned the team for about a decade, Pheobe hasn't come in contact with him for longer then that.  She's been spending her time flouncing around the world and making a name for herself as a sexpot bimbo.  Little does anyone know that behind her curvy body lies an intelligent mind and a wounded soul.<br />Dan Calebow, the Stars coach, has overcome childhood poverty and abuse to become a successful football player and coach.  Needless to say, he is furious that Pheobe inherited the team.  When the two meet, sparks fly, tempers flare, and passions roar as the reader gets ready for the time of her/ his life.  Pheobe learns how to deal with the team as Dan learns how to deal with Pheobe.  And, the two are undeniably attracted to each other.  Can the Stars win the AFC Championship so Pheobe can keep the team?  Will Pheobe and Dan put away their pride so that they can have a love for all time?<br />I really loved _It Had To Be You_ and for many reasons.  When I first met Pheobe, I thought, Oh great, I'll have to read about her for the rest of the book.  But, I quickly saw that she was an amazingly complex character and she goes through a wonderful change through out the book.  Dan is this big chest thumping, beer belching, womanizing chauvanist, and I usually don't like my heroes to be quite this alpha.  But, he is definitely a charmer and as Pheobe fell under his spell, so did I.<br />Susan Elizabeth Phillips is known through out the romance world for her witty, uncanny humor.  It shines in _It Had To Be You_.  Although there are definitely the darker sides to this book, it has such a cornball, smart humor to it that everyone will love it.  Susan Elizabeth Phillips has an amazing talent for romance and humor, a combination that is dynamite.  Not many books can have you laughing in stiches one second and crying your eyes out the next.  _It Had To Be You_ is one of those special few.  So, if you enjoy lovely romance and knock your socks off humor, _It Had To Be You_ is a must read.	2000-12-31
US	50424166	RXHTNM0B66I3U	0380782332	489354413	Kiss an Angel	Books	5	32	38	N	N	As good as it gets!	I love it when I get so pulled into a book that I can't do anything but read it.  _Kiss an Angel_ is an example of romance the way it was supposed to be written.  If you havn't read anything by Susan Elizabeth Phillips, you simply must!  Her writing is vivid, humorous and unique.  Her characters come alive for you.  I've only read one other book by SEP, but let me tell you, I'm hooked for life.  _Kiss an Angel_ has one of the most unique story lines I've ever read in a romance novel.  It takes place in a circus.  This was new for me, but I totally loved it.  Daisy, the main character, is one we can all relate to.  SEP makes her startlingly real, and all of what she does as a character is so well written that it is easy to see her motives,  Alex, Daisy's husband, is a complex one.  He's got so many layers, you wouldn't believe it.  Let me just tell you that  he's not what he seems.  When these two odd balls meet, sparks fly.  Daisy was so cute because at the begining of the book, she is terrified of animals, but towards the end, she's got the whole menagerie of the circus eating out of her hand.  This is just a metaphor for the change that goes on through her.  SEP's writing is so vivid that you will feel like you're in the circus audience watching the show.  Alex and Daisy's love is really precious.  The humor that is infused in this book is amazing.  I've gotten some strange looks for laughing out loud numoress times.  So, let me sum up _Kiss and Angel_ for you... it is a fabulous book that any romance lover must have.  SEP will blow you away, and I garuntee that you will be coming back for more.	2000-12-25
US	50424166	R7V8S5K53M1LE	0515128554	608776329	Heart of the Sea  (Irish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	You'll be sad to see the Gallaghers go!	I sure was sad to see them leave.  When I held _Heart of the Sea_ in my hands at the bookstore, I had mixed feelings running through me... a part of me wanted to rush up to the counter slap some money into the cashier's hand and then rush home and gobble it up.  Another part of me wanted to carefully set the book cak down and walk away so that I would have a part of Ardmore waiting for me for as long as I liked.  In a way, it seemed to me that buying _Heart of the Sea_ was like sealing it's fate.  As soon as I bought it, it would be like saying good bye to a cherished friend.  It seemed as if I bought _Heart of the Sea_ I would be sending the Gallaghers away, for their story would end.  If this little battle is going on inside you, put an end to it right now.  _Heart of the Sea_ was worth the wait and Nora Roberts once more delivers many hours of pleasurable reading.<br />Travel again to the little town of Ardmore, a place of love, magic and faeries.  Meet up with the Gallaghers, two of them happily married.  Aidan and Jude are two peas in a pod, or should I say three, as the Jude you'll meet in here is a very pregnant Jude.  Shawn and Brenna still have their arguments about their future, but the love between them is obvious.  And then there's Darcy, the wild Gallagher.  What about her?  She's always said she wanted to land a rich husband, but when the wealthy Trevor Magee comes to the sleepy little town to build his theater, is it Darcy's dream come true?<br />Trevor is drawn to Ardmore because of his past.  His roots are sunk into the little town, and when he visits, he finds that it is the perfect spot to build a theater.  And, Darcy Gallagher might not be a bad thing to amuse himself with.  She's gorgeous, intelligent, and talanted.  The two are attracted to each other, and it seems like it will be the perfect relationship as the two of them are determined that they are not capable of love.  But, as the days progress, they do fall in love.  Can they both sacrifice their pride to admit it?<br />I loved _Heart of the Sea_.  I've been waiting for it ever since the end of the last book.  Oh, if only all waiting was rewarded this sweetly!  In the last books of the Ardmore trilogy, we got to know Darcy, and many people came to think of her as a brat.  In _Heart_, you get inside Darcy's head, and realize that she's not the selfish person you once thought.  Trevor was definitely a good match for her, and they both play very nicely off each other.  Nora Roberts did a very good job of fleshing him out and making him come alive.  It was very entertaining to watch them interact.<br />In the previous books of the Ardmore trilogy, Ms. Roberts captures the essence of Ireland.  She's captured it in _Heart_ also, but she's got something else too.  Music.  Nora Roberts has grasped the heart of music and stuck it into this book.  It's amazing.  You can almost hear it.  The swells, the cries, it's all here.  Her writing talant shines and it will capture you.<br />The only thing that disapointed me about _Heart of the Sea_ was the lack of ending between Carrik and Gwen.  They are the underlying rythum of these books, and when their spell is finally put to an end, there's not very much attention put to it.  But, it's not enough to ruin the book.  All in all, _Heart of the Sea_ is a fantastic read, and I can't wait to visit the Gallaghers again soon.  Buying this book doesn't put an end to the trilogy.  No, it's just the begining.	2000-12-23
US	50424166	R16A1FBWU50RC7	0446604771	322198911	The Outsider	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A book to be savored!	Have you ever tasted a chocolate so rich that you just let it melt in your mouth and close your eyes to really enjoy the sensation?  Or, have you climbed into a steaming bubble bath after being outside in the cold?  These sensations are akin to Penelope Williamson's writing.  Now wait, before you go and pick up _The Outsider_, you've really got to evaluate your reading tastes.  It's not an easy book to read, and it's definitely not right for everyone.  I'm not even sure if it was right for me.  But, if you enjoy reading some excellent calliber writing, _The Outsider_ is a must have, if only for Penelope Williamson's lush descriptions and sweeping style.<br />Rachel Yoder belongs to the Plain People, an Amish sect that is even stricter then it's for fathers.  She has made a promish to live the strait and narrow way, no matter how brutal it may prove.  And yet, when she married Ben Yoder, she fell head over heels in love with him, and she knew that this new passion she felt must be sinful.  And, she figures that the Lord is punishing her when some outsiders brutally hang her husband.  Rachel dove deeper into her religion, determined to live her life the way God intended and to have her son grow up to be a good boy whom no one can find fault with.<br />This all changes the day Johnny Cain stumbles onto their sheep farm.  He's wounded and near death, and Rachel knows she must do something.  She takes him into her house and nurses him back to health, meanwhile arising suspicion and mistrust in the Plain community.  Johnny Cain is obviously an outlaw, but worse then that, he is an outsider and only knows the ways of the sinful, flashy world.  Johnny helps Mrs. Yoder keep up her farm and protects her from their violent, beef farming neighbors.  And these two completely different people begin to spin a love so strong that it seems nothing can break it.  But, can it stand to be tested by the worlds the two of them can never have at the same time?<br />Heavy, heavy book, is _The Outsider_.  Just think about it, the main character is Amish.  Rachel is not your regular, pray every minute, Amish woman, but still, her religion and relationship with God is the main thing in her life.  Her son Benjo was a doll.  He has a stuttering problem, and your heart just goes out to the poor boy.  Johnny Cain is in a large way just like Benjo.  He tries to hide his hurt, but when it's out in the open, you see that he is just like the boy, scared to be hurt.  Together, these three make up a wonderful set of well fleshed out main characters whom you will grow to care vary much about.<br />I also really enjoyed the side characters.  You can't even really call them that, Penelope Williamson makes them as real as the main characters, it's just they don't have the fucous of the story on them.  Penelope Williamson took the time to make sure that every single one of the characters in her book was well developed and real to the reader.  As an effect of this, you will be drawn into the book completely.  I especially enjoyed the relationship between Marilee, the working girl, and Lucus Henry, the drunk doctor.<br />And, then there's Penelope's overall style which is just totally incredibal.  I just let her writing wash over me and completely take over.  I usually zip through books pretty quickly, but I took my time with _The Outsider_ so I could get every little detail and not miss a thing.  _The Outsider_ is truly an epic novel, but not for the faint of heart.  It's defintely a Kleenex read, and the ending is bittersweet, but for anyone who enjoys first class writing, _The Outsider_ is definitely for you.  Bravo, Ms. Williamson!  If only every writer wrote like you!	2000-12-16
US	50424166	R17T76I2YGOPRK	0380400634	645616910	The Enchanted Land (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Totally amazing!	I can't believe Jude Deveraux.  She is one of my top authors, and everytime that I read one of her books, I am amazed once again at the sheer genius of her writing power.  It is impossible to read one of her books without being involved in it and moved.  _The Enchanted Land_ is no exception, and I am once more awed by the power of her skills.<br />Morgan Wakefeild's got a problem.  Her rich father, whom is recently deceased has left everything from his life to her... on one condition.  She has to marry a man and live in New Mexico for a year to inherit it all.  This is big trouble for Morgan because, ever since she was one years old, she lived with her mother in a house with little contact to the outside world.  When her mother died, Morgan went to her uncle to live.  Morgan's uncle was a very greedy man, and when he heard about the will, he figures that if Morgan doesn't marry, he will get the money.  So, he hides her beauty beneath baggy clothes and keeps her hidden from society.<br />At one of Morgan's rare outings, a couple days before a prolonged trip to Europe, Morgan hears a group of two women talking about Seth Coulter.  He's got a ranch in New Mexico.  This seems an answer to Morgan's prayers.  She aproaches Seth and offers him twenty five thousand dollars to marry her.  Seth is amused and attracted to this strange little girl and decides to accept her offer.  The two journey on to New Mexico.<br />A love blossoms between these two amidst the backdrop of an enchanted land.  But, fate seems to feel that they must fight for their love, so it interveens.  Jealousy, lies, and fate makes them enemies.  Can destiny and love prevail?<br />_The Enchanted Land_ is a must read for any reader who enjoys reading about the American frontier.  I always love a break from the lords and ladies of England.  Sure, America isn't always the most origional, but I still love it as do many other readers.  Jude Deveraux has a funny way of filling her books full of historical detailwithout taking away the enjoyment and romance factors.  Morgan was a lovely heroine.  I loved the fact that she was beautiful, but it's not rubbed into the reader's face.  It's more of a decision that the reader has to make for herself.  Seth was the guy that you want to punch.  I've got to agree with another reader that Jude's style in this book was very similar to Judith McNaught's.  Seth was the man that you want to scream at so he can get over his blindness.  I loved him, though.  And he does make up for his blindness.  New Mexico was such an interesting setting, and Jude Deveraux makes it come alive for the reader.  I could feel the heat, and I was caught up in the world she wrote for us.  A word of caution out there for people, though.  There is a bit of seperation that the hero and heroine go through.  And, there is a guy who tries to get Morgan's heart that isn't Seth.  But, it's still an awesom book, and I loved it completely.<br />If you liked this book, let me recomend some more.  _Whitney, My Love_ and _Until You_ by Judith McNaught ~ _Honor's Splendour_ and _Saving Grace_ by Julie Garwood ~ _Counterfeit Lady_ and _Temptation_ by Jude Deveraux.  Please, give _The Enchanted Land_ a chance.  It is one of Jude's earlier works, but it is wonderful.	2000-11-25
US	50424166	R2MUVPYWS0ZR3	0553234447	846307740	Faro's Daughter	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Love and hate go hand in hand...	This was my first Georgette Heyer book and I can't tell you how much I enjoyed it!  The way Ms. Heyer weaves humor and historical detail into her books is amazing and beautiful.  I am so sad that most of her books are out of print, but you can believe that I will be faithfully searching every nook and cranny I can find to get my hands on more!<br />Lord Mablethorpe is a man in love.  Well... not exactly.  He has proclaimed undying love to Miss Deborah Grantham, but it is painfully obvious that it is just a case of puppy love.  However, this is not the story that gets to Mablethorpe's mother's ears.<br />Lady Mablethorpe hears that a wench from the gaming table has ensnared her helpless son into marriage.  As Lord Mablethorpe is of respectable lineiage and will come into a handsom fortune, Lady Mablethorpe will not let this come to pass.  She has nothing better to do then to call on her nephew, Mr. Max Ravenscar, the richest man in London.  Lady Mablethorpe begs him to save her son from the claws of the harpy, and so Mr. Ravenscare accepts.  He intends to buy Deborah off at whatever price it takes.  When he confronts Deb with the subject of her &quot;ingagement&quot; to Lord Mablethorpe, she is extremely offended.  She never had any intention of marrying Lord Mablethorpe (of course she doesn't tell Ravenscar this) and she is not really a woman of the gaming houses.  Oh, it's true that she does enjoy a bit of cards and she does run the E.O. table at her aunt's house, but this is because she and her aunt are in dire straits and desperately need money.  As a matter of pride, Deb will not take the money from Ravenscar and declares that she will marry Mablethorpe (of course it is a lie) and she will bring him to utter ruin.<br />Coming home in a fit of rage, Deb makes a resolution to act as the harpy that Ravenscar seems to think she is.  She tranforms herself into a gaudy, chintzy, totally tasteless female and shocks everyone.  The two thouroughly dislike each other, but... love and hate go hand in hand...<br />Oh dear!<br />It is such a shame that all of Georgette Heyer's books are not all in print.  I was lucky enough to find _Faro's Daughter_ at my library, I storngly urge you to look for it too.  This is what regency and romance is all about, my friends.  This is it!  The humor, the slang (&quot;I don't give a button what you think!&quot;) the love, the language, all of it.  Georgetts Heyer's style of writing should be the basis of every author's book.  She does not treat her readers as children and spell everything out for them.  Indeed, reading one of her books is an interactive experience.  Her plots are unique, if not the origionals.  Her characters come alive and basically speek to you.  The emotions that I felt while reading _Faro's Daughter_ cannot actually be said out loud... all I can say is read it.  You must, you simply must.  Georgette Heyer books are must haves for any true romance fan.	2000-11-16
US	50424166	R2H5P56MMU2VY	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting...	All in all, _Prince Charming_ wasn't my favorite romance, but the main character, Prince Rafael is what saved the book.  Okay, that sounds a little harsh.  The story really wasn't that bad and Gaelen Foley has an amazing talent.  But, in _Prince Charming_ she devotes her writing skills to developing the main character, Rafe.  Rafe is amazingly developed before the readers' eyes.  He has so many complex layers and feelings it seems as if you've been watching him his whole life and you know everything about him.  I think that he is the male character that everybody gets in their mind when they finish reading a book with zero character development and want more.  I've never encountered a better developed character.  But, all of this character development really took a back seat to the romance.  Oh, it's there all right, with some steamy love, but because Rafe is such a larger then life hero, we aren't as interested in it.  Aside from Rafe, there were some other things about _Prince Charming_ that I enjoyed.  Dani, the heroine was also fun to read about, and I wish that Gaelen Foley would have spent a little more time on her.  At the begining of the book, she is the Robin Hood figure of the magical isle of Ascencion.  That was such a nice change.  Romantic heroines are often brave, but they seldom ever actually make a living from it.  Dani and Rafe were lovely to read about side by side as they both go through an amazing change through out the book and at the end they have grown and become better people.  I also liked reading about Ascencion, Gaelen Foley's magical Itallian isle.  So, if you want to read about a character who is the epitom of character development with a little romance tossed in, this book is for you.  It's strongly recomended to a devoted reader.	2000-11-04
US	50424166	ROYBRCRQ8SNI	0553061232	816659702	El camino del amor	Books	1	53	58	N	N	Beware, this book is written in Spanish...	I love Johanna Lindsey, and when I saw _El Camino Del Armor_ I jumped on it.  It didn't dawn on me that it might not be in English.  Silly me, I just thought that it would take place in Mexico or Spain.  DON'T MAKE MY MISTAKE!  Find some of Johanna's book that are written in English.	2000-11-04
US	50424166	R2RBDQE698UQJV	1551665921	135146320	Hostage	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Not an easy book to read, but rewarding and well written!	This is my first Susan Wiggs book, and I am in awe of her talent.  _The Hostage_ was a wonderful, emotional roller coaster ride.  I was extremly involved in it.  Let me say that the begining is a little hard to get through, but if you stick out it, _The Hostage_ is a very rewarding book to read, and you will be left with a silly grin on your face.  If you don't like hard core romance, then this book may not be for you, but if you enjoy complex plots and interesting characters, I'd highly recomend you try this one out.<br />On October 8, 1871, disaster struck Chicago.  Amidst the chaos, four friends have their lives drastically changed.  They are Phoebe, Lucy, Kathleen and Deborah.  How they change and what happens to them is the basis of Susan Wiggs Chicago fire trilogy.  _The Hostage_ is the first book followed by _The Mistress_ and then _The Firebrand_.  Deborah Beaton Sinclair is the focus of _The Hostage_<br />One night at the opera... who knew it could change your whole life?  Deborah had a very traumatic experience there and realizes that she can not marry her fiance.  She decides that she must ride into town and tell her father.  Little does she know that her life is about to change forever.<br />Tom Silver is a man bent on revenge.  Aurther Sinclair, Deborah's father, is a murderer in his mind, and Tom comes into town from the remote Isle Royale with murder on his mind.  While Deborah is confronting her father and the fire is raging outside, Tom bursts into their lives.  By a mis-hap, Aurther is not killed, and Tom takes Deborah as his hostage for compensation.  They travel to Isle Royale and Deborah sees first hand the disaster that her father's greed has caused.  And, she and Tom are drawn towards each other as love spins it's complicated web.  Will these two star crossed lovers ever end up together for their happily ever after?  Will the devestated families of Isle Royale ever get some compensation for their loss?  And what really did happen that fatefulnight of the opera?<br />Oh, I just loved this book!  The characters, the setting, the plot... everything.  Let me clear the air and tell you that the first half of the book is really dedicated to letting you get to know the characters and their problems.  But, when the romance does come into play at the second half, you feel that you know the characters so well that their love seems very realistic.  Both Tom and Deborah are wounded souls, but they can help heal each other, and it is lovely to watch.  It is so cool to watch Deborah awaken from the naive debutant she once was.  I found myself cheering her on and hoping she would find her voice and her place in the world.  Tom was very much the same.  He too is wounded, but Deborah helps him see that life goes on and she teaches him how to love again.<br />Susan Wiggs has just boosted herself up to one of my favorite authors.  The way she develops her stories is amazing.  Her characters are very well fleshed out and her settings come alive.  Chicago has always been a place I've wanted to visit, and now I want to even more.  The way she described Isle Royale made me feel like I was there.  That takes real talent.  I can't wait to read _The Mistress_.	2000-11-04
US	50424166	R3BLH1BZ8D00DP	0671002031	910941653	Temptation	Books	5	16	18	N	N	*Stop whatever you're doing and get this book!*	Oh my goodness!  _Temptation_ just proved to me why I love romance!  I've been going through my reading life finding books that were stale and uninteresting, but this one reminded me why I love books so much and spend almost all of my time reading them.  If you have read a book lately that you only liked a little, _Temptation_ is just the thing you need to put some zing back into your life.  Please, just read it!<br />Temperance O'Neil is a women's rights worker in 1909.  Although it is stated often, there is some doubt in the reader's mind that Temperance actually does anything other then smile for the cameras and make speeches.  Anyway, this particular night is the night that her mother will be coming home after a long vacation, and Temperance can't wait to tell her everything.  As she arives home and bursts through the door, Temperance gets an unexpected surprise.  In other words, she finds her mother in the arms of a stranger, and they're kissing in the front hall.<br />Mrs. O'Neil explains to Temperance that while she was in the Highlands, she met and married this man who is Angus McCairn.  Now, Angus is a chauvanist pig (or at least he seems this way) and he is horrified that Temperance is helping other women out there to become independant.  He insists that she come back with him and her mother to Scotland.  When Temperance refuses, Angus resorts to blackmail.  If Temperance doesn't come with them, she will be cut off without a cent.  Because all of Temperance's deeds are funded by her inheritance left behind by her dead father and she has no other source of income, Temperance has no choice but to accept.  But this doesn't mean that she has to do it willingly.<br />In Scotland, Temperance is a woman with a mission-- she must drive Angus crazy.  And that she does.  Angus decides that this cannot go on much longer, and he decides to make a deal with Temperance.  If she goes out to the wilderness, acts as the housekeeper for his nephew James, and finds him a bride, Angus will let Temperance go back to New York and he will even give her an allowence.<br />Well, Temperance has no choice but to go, and go she does.  James is the laird of the clan McCaird, but the estate is in a shambles and Temperance finds out one rainy night (this is after she walked ten miles in a thunderstorm to get to the house).  The house is covered in a foot of dust and there is no furniture anywhere.  Temperance knows that if she is ever going to get a sane woman into the house and make her think about becoming mistress of the house that it will have to be cleaned.  So clean it she does, all the while learning the fascinating history of the place.  It seems that the happy family was torn apart a few generations ago by a maniac spender and a hopeless gambler.  But, Temperance slowly bring happiness and cleanliness back into the house and she and James fall in love.  But, there is a secret in the family history, and it has the power to destroy even the strongest of loves.  Will James and Temperance survive to see if they will find true happiness?<br />Oh my, what can I say that will make you want this book?  How about that Jude Deveraux is back into her forte of historical romance.  Or how about that both the heroine and the hero go through a change and it's not just one of them.  Or how about that it's just amazingly good.  All of these are true.  Temperance was definitely a woman to wish to meet.  Although in the begining she is a little snobish, she goes through a drastic change and by the end of the book, she is a wonderful person with a caring, giving heart.  I also loved the fact that she was getting up there in age (she's twenty nine- not your typical girl &quot;fresh from the school rooms&quot;).  It was so cute to hear about her wrinkles.  James, well, he's a guy you need to form your own opinion about.  Some people will call him stubborn and a little blind to the ways of the world, but he too goes through a drastic change.  Another thing thatadded to this book was the wonderful side characters.  Even though they didn't have the fucos of the story on them, they were still as well developed as the main characters.<br />Jude Deveraux has an amazing talent.  Each of her books come alive, and _Temptation_ is no exception.  Scotland is one of my all time favorite settings, and Jude Deveraux definitly did it justice with this book.  You can close your eyes and see the dramatic cliffs of Scotland and you can almost smell the land.  Her plot was unique and had a lot of lovely twists and turns.  It kept the reader involved and it will keep you on your toes.  Oh, the ending is lovely too... definitely a tear jerker.  I will agree with another reviewer that it was rather short, but it was still lovely, and the things that happened in it were all that mattered.  So, believe me, this is a book not to be missed.  I'd highly recomend it to anyone.	2000-10-18
US	50424166	R1LPSOWEVL6DJN	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great follow up!	I loved _Jewels of the Sun_ so much that I was glad to have _Tears of the Moon_ ready to read as soon as I put it down.  Let me just tell you that if you are thinking about read these books, you'd better have both of them ready because once you start you won't want to stop!  Nora Roberts has me in awe of her talent.  The way she can transport the reader to the places she talks about is amazing!  If your life is so busy you feel like you need to take a break, but don't have the time for a vacation, pick up _Tears of the Moon_ or _Jewels of the Sun_.  You will be whisked away to Ireland and not want to come back.  This book flows and pulses as if it were a real life.  When you read it, it doesn't seem to be a book, but as if this was really happening right before your eyes.  Brenna was wonderful.  The way she took charge and went right out and did things was inspiring.  She was quite a change from Jude who was so quiet and not sure of her own strength.  Brenna is the kind of person that all women hope to have a little bit of her inside them.  When you read about her antics, you will probably hope that someday you will have that kind of courage and strength if you don't have it already.  And then there's Shawn.  Who wouldn't fall in love with him?  He's the kind of men we all hope to meet one day.  The kind of man that will take a rainy gloomy day and turn it all around for you.  He was so cute to read about.  All the characters in this book became soooo real to the reader that I felt that if I met them on the street, I would have been able to carry on a conversation with them and know what they were talking about.  And trust me, Nora Roberts' characters are the kind of people you would hope to meet on the street.  I've just got to say again how much of Ireland is captured in this book.  It's just full of it... the folklore, the scenery, the accent (oh my God, she writes with a brogue, I swear!), everything.  When I was done with the book, I could close my eyes and picture the little village of Ardmore in my head.  The sights, the smells, the sea... it was all there!  Nora Roberts should be getting kick backs from Ireland, for I'm sure that ever since _Jewels of the Sun_ came out last November, women have been flocking there, hoping to find their own little Ardmore and a Shawn or Aidan for themselves.  Ever since I was little, fariy tales have been a love of mine, and Nora Roberts back drop of the faery tradgedy of Gwen and Carrick makes for a lovlier story.  So, if you want a vacation from all the stress that can come in life, sit back with a cup of tea and prepare to be taken away to Ireland!  I'd highly recomend it to anyone who loves love and a beautiful land!  Enjoy!	2000-10-14
US	50424166	R298IHAX5EH0BO	034535673X	274843382	This Heart of Mine (O'Malley Saga)	Books	1	11	18	N	N	I'm embaressed to say I read it!	Do not read this book!  That is the best piece of advice I can give you!  I never never ever give a book a one star rating, but _This Heart of Mine_ deserves lower.  Let me tell you, I love books, I adore them, but this one is an awful edition to the romance world.  I usually read three books in one week no matter their length, but this book was so boring that even though it is only five hundred some pages, it took me two weeks to finish.  This was my first book by Bertrice Small, and it will definitely be my last.<br />Velvet de Marisco is the beautiful, if spoiled, young daughter of Skye O'Malley.  At age five she was engaged to Alex Gordon, Earl of BrocCairn, but she won't have to go through with the marriage if she doesn't want to.  When Velvet is about thirteen, her parents leave to go on a voyage to India leaving her at home.  When Velvet turns fifteen (her parents are still gone), Alex decides that this time is convininet for him to marry her.  Velvet, fearing for her freedom, flees and becomes one of Queen Elizabeth's maids of honor.  This will keep her safe until her parents come back, or so she thinks.<br />Alex courts her as another man, and they fall &quot;in love&quot;.  They end up married, and stay that way happily for two and a half months.  Then, Alex fights a duel for no reason, and word gets to Velvet that he was killed.  In a fit of hysteria, she begs her brother to take her with him to India to try to find her parents.  There she is kidnapped and taken to the leader of India, Akbar, as a present.<br />Meanwhile, Alex, who loves his wife sooooooooooooo much, takes a mistress.  And, when Skye returns and finds this out, she tries to seperate them.  But, Alex, who is sooo soo clever spots this and just takes his mistress back to Scotland with him to give her a child.  All this time, Velvet is in India being courted by Akbar and she finds out what love truly is.  Thinking she is a widow, she slowly becomes Akbar's lover.  But, she is torn from him and taken back to the loving Alex.  It goes downhill from there.<br />Ick! Yawn!  I can't believe that I read this book.  _This Heart of Mine_ was truly awful.  I'm sorry, but it was.  Velvet was a character I grew to care very little about.  Since she usually always got her way, I didn't really care what happened to her as she was getting it.  Alex was the un-hero of the century.  He so loves his wife that he takes a mistress right away while he knows she is alive.  But Velvet, thinking herself a widow, takes much longer to find love again.  Alex was just anoying.  He was so pig headed with Velvet that everything he did made a bigger mess of their relationship.  He didn't even deserve the evil mistress he took.  Dear Bertrice Small-- you need to learn how to write romance.  The sex was too kinky and the characters were made of cardboard.  There was no emotion behind the many declorations of love.  When Velvet or Alex or Akbar said &quot;I love you&quot; I was still left in the cold.  I would rather read a book where the hero is scared to say the words but has the feelings inside him then a book where the hero just tosses around the word love but has no feeling whatsoever.  The only saving grace about this book was the historical detail.  It is painfully obvious that Bertrice Small spent many hours doing some research, but I wanted to read a romance, not a textbook. I do realize that this is the third book in a saga, but I would not read the first one or any of them unless I was forced to.  Maybe _Skye O'Malley_ was a better book, but I don't want to find out. Please, just skip this book.	2000-10-13
US	50424166	R2GB2P8O4ALQST	0515126772	914501828	Jewels of the Sun: The Gallaghers of Ardmore Trilogy (Irish Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Get prepared to wish to go to Ireland...	If you read _Jewels of the Sun_, that is what you most certainly want to do.  I've had _Jewels of the Sun_ and _Tears of the Moon_ in my &quot;to be read&quot; pile for about a month.  I didn't really forget about them, I just had a whole bunch of other things to do.  One thing led to another, and pretty soon they were gathering dust.  Well, the other day, my mom came home all flustered.  I asked her what was the matter, and she told me that one of her friends was moving to Ireland to live with a man she barely knew.  They were giving her a going away party, and my mom wanted me to help her wrap up the gifts they were giving to her friend.  My mom pulled out a little box of Lucky Charms cereal, a box of Irish Spring soap, some Irish beer, and a couple of brightly packaged Trojans (she was going to be living with a man after all).  As I wrapped the Lucky Charms and watched my mom strap condoms to some beer, I started thinking about _Jewels of the Sun_.  The whole scenerio seemed rather like Jude's plight to me, and as soon as my mom left for her friends going away party, I was reading Nora Roberts' wonderful book.<br />Jude Frances Murray decided that she must be crazy.  Being a shrink, she ought to know.  She had just quit her job as a respectable teacher-- that's right, she up and quit! no sabatical, she's now unemployed-- and was now traveling to Ireland to try and find herself.  She was planning to stay in her granny's little cottage on Faerie Hill and do some work on a paper she was planning to submit to the school board.  Little did Jude know that she was entering a land of faeries and myths and that her life was about to change forever.<br />Aidan Gallagher has finally come home to the little village of Ardmore.  After his years of globe trotting, he's decided that staying in the village that he was raised in and becoming the head of the family pub is the life for him.  Aidan has a soft spot for lonely hearts, and so when Jude breezed into his pub one day, hisheart was hers.  He sees that they were meant for each other, and he wants to show it to Jude.<br />Jude is blown over by the Irish automosphere of the town of Armore.  She can see why her granny speaks so fondly of the sleepy little sea side village.  As Jude starts to come out of her shell, she falls in love with Ireland and her new life there.  She's making friends with the local girls, and the Gallagher family feels like her own... not to mention she's falling in love with Aidan.  So, Jude's path to slef discovery thickens, but can she and Aidan overcome the obsticals in their lives to be together?<br />After a couple weeks of reading books that were okay, I finally found a book that I LOVED... and it was _Jewels of the Sun_.  With Nora Roberts, I always feel like she brings the settings of her books alive, but with _Jewels of the Sun_, she took it to another level.  I felt like I was in Ireland... it was amazing!  Jude was a character that I could really relate to.  Her fears of failing is something we all deal with, and it made me feel a kinship to her character.  I took one of her sayings to heart... &quot;If you have courage enough to try, you have courage enough to fail.&quot;  Aidan, well, he seemed like a man from another century, but hey, this is fiction.  It's a good way to get away from your life for a while.  I really enjoyed the bonding that went on between Jude, Darcy Gallagher, and Brenna O'Toole.  The way the three of them formed as friends and bonded was truly lovely.  I could see the friendship they had, and I was amazed at how close it was to the bonding that I have with my friends.  Plus, the backdrop of faeries to Jude and Aidan's love was truly speial.  Through out the trilogy, there is this mystical backdrop, and I fell in love with it in _Jewels of the Sun_.  So after reading this book, I hope that my mom will one day be wraping a box of Lucky Charms for me.  Nora Roberts has written a book worth a pot of gold.	2000-09-29
US	50424166	R1Q5X75YSBC616	0671743783	427237661	The Awakening (Montgomery, Book 13)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Like a fine wine, it got better with time!	I love all of Jude Deveraux's work, and _The Awakening_ was no exception.  I was at first a little dissapointed with the begining though.  Amanda is really too stiff, and Hank was not sympathetic enough.  He just automatically put her in the catagorie of a prig who couldn't feel anything.  Amanda took a little too long to wake up and see the world.  She's run raged by her fiance, yet she still clings to the notion that she loves him.  This was very exasperating to read about.  Both characters were being strange and stubborn.  It was like they were both looking at their lives through a screne door.  They could see part of it, but most of it was shady.  But, towards the second half of the book, the door opened, and _The Awakening_ became wonderful.  Amanda became more of a real character, and Hank acted with much more compassion then he origionally showed.  His way of courting Amanda was knee weakening.  Jude Deveraux has a gift with words.  She makes all of her books come alive!  I loved the time change.  I've never really encountered books that took place in the early nineteen hundreds, and it works really well.  The setting of a California hop ranch was delightful, and Jude Deveraux's research efforts shine as this book is rich with detail about the hop riots that happened around that time.  I enjoyed reading about the trails of the workers, however, it was very heartbreaking.  Jude Deveraux captured the essence of the hop fields, and her book made me want to research it more.  Although _The Awakening_ started strangly and it was rather annoying in the begining, grit your teeth and get past the first couple chapters.  From then on, the story picks up steam, and you will get involved in the characters' plots and lives.  This book is definitely worth your time.  I'd recomend it to anyone.	2000-09-24
US	50424166	R1KMYSZSDB8FAT	0671032992	427650271	Heartbreaker	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A wonderful story written by the best!	When I read _Ransom_ last year, I also read that sneak peak in the back for _Heartbreaker_.  I was just getting started reading romance, and I loved all things historical.  When I saw that Julie Garwood's newest book would be a contemporary, I was a little dissapointed.  I didn't want to give up my historical Scotland, my lairds, my ladys, and my lords.  But, I soon read everything that Julie had written, and hungry for more of her work, I waited on pins and needles until _Heartbreaker_ was released this summer.  I was once again engulfed in Julie's magical world, and I was sooo not dissapointed.<br />In the stiffling heat of the confessional, a man makes a startling confession to the preist, Tommy Madden.  He asks the preist for absolution for a sin he has yet to commit.  As the confession session progresses, the stranger tells Tommy of a murder he commited years before, and that he has chosen another woman to kill.  He goes into detail about how his work was done.  And then he tells Tommy his secret.  He's going to kill Tommy's sister.  He's a heartbreaker, and poor Laurant is next.  Heartbreaker dares Tommy to get the FBI involved.  He tells Tommy to bring in his best friend Nich Buchanen.  He dares them to do their best to catch him... claiming that they never will.<br />Laurant is at first shocked and then angered by what is happening to her.  All of her life, she's been away from her brother at boarding school, and now, when they finally get a chance to know each other, some psycho is threatening to take it away.  Well, if you've ever read a Julie Garwood book before, you know that her heroines never, ever run away with their tails between their legs, and Laurant is no exception.  She tells Nick (who ends up coming to help out with the case) that she wants to draw Heartbreaker out so they can catch him.  Now, to do this, she and Nick will pretend to be in love.  That will in turn, make Heartbreaker jealous and want to strike out at Laurant.  Well, soon, the charade becomes all too real for Laurant and Nick, but what happens when the killer becomes enraged?  Can they survive?<br />We caught a glimpse of it in _Come the Spring_.  It grew in _Ransom_.  Now, Julie Garwood's talent for suspense comes into full bloom with her newest book _Heartbreaker_.  I can't even begin to tell you how involved I was in this book.  I had forgotten how much I love Julie Garwood, but now, I'm going to go back a reread all of her books.  Her talent is indrescibable.  It really is.  There is no way to tell you how wonderful her books are.  Laurant and Nick came alive on the pages.  I could see them in my mind.  The town of Holy Oaks, Iowa was a wonderful setting.  I loved the small town atmosphere that was painted so well.  Although the question of who the Heartbreaker was was a little predictable, but hey, this is her first real suspense book.  Although I did enjoy _Heartbreaker_, I do hope that Julie does go back into her historical setting.  Why try to change a good thing?	2000-09-23
US	50424166	R1W7DQ8DLQN9FU	0671001701	938371139	Legend	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Entertaining, but a little too strange for me.	Let me just say that I love Jude Deveraux.  I know some of you that read  the title of my review are thinking &quot;She just doesn't appreciate a  good Jude Deveraux story&quot; or &quot;Well, time travels just aren't her  thing&quot;.  I'll clear the air for you.  Jude Deveraux is fastly becoming  one of my all time favorite authors, and I am a BIG fan of time travel.   But, _Legend_ just doesn't do it for me... sorry.<br />I started the book  prepared to hate it.  Let me tell you... I didn't.  It was well written and  entertaining.  But, the story line was a little too twisted.  The book  starts out inroducing us to Kady Long, a famous chef.  She is about to be  married to her boss' son.  Although he is gorgeous and gives Kady the  freedom she thinks she needs, the reader knows right away that he is not  the man for her.  While browsing through an antique store, Kady impulsivly  buys a flour tin.  But, when she gets home, she realizes she bought more  then she thought, and that the simple little flour tin would change her  life forever.<br />Once Kady pries open the tin, she finds three treasures  inside: a breathtaking wedding dress, a watch and a family photo.  Since  Kady is getting married so soon, it seems that the hands of fate were  guiding her decision to buy the ancient tin.  Kady tries on the dress, and  is overcome by a dizzy spell.  When she wakes up, she is no longer in her  drab little appartment in Virginia.  Instead, she is on a mountain top, and  a hanging is about to take place.<br />Rushing to the hanging tree, Kady sees  three men trying to hang a gorgeous man.  She uses her wits and saves the  man.  It turns out his name is Cole.  Kady instantly feels a pull to him,  but thinks that he is not the man for her because all of her life, she's  dreamt of an Arabian Night.  Because of Cole's fair features, he can not be  the man for her.  Nevertheless, Cole feels that he is in Kady's debt for  saving his life, and so the two end up getting hitched.Cole is in love  with Kady, but she is still trying to decide what it is exactly that she  feels for him.  All this while there is a secret, and once Kady figures it  out, Cole is gone from her forever.  Can she still find true love?  Will  she ever see the truth about Gregory?  Will an Arabian come from the desert  and sweep her off her feet?<br />Okay, I never usually give a three to a book,  so I'm going to break down the good things and the bad things about it so  you can understand why it's not the greatest.<br />Bad Things-                                          1)  About half of the book is spent with Cole.   Now, I loved Cole, and he was a great character.  I got tricked into  thinking he would be the hero.  Not so.  Kady is whisked away from him, so  you are left with a strange feeling of loss.  Then, we are introduced to  Tarik, Kady's Arabian man, and think that he could be Cole's replacement,  but alas, he treats her very badly.  When he later tells her that it was  all an act, I had a hard time believing it.  Tarik treats Kady hostilely  and then it is explained in two seconds, and all is forgiven.  It was a  little sloppy.                                                          2)   The ending.  The first part of the book was really good.  I could see how  Jude came to the conclusions that she did about time travle.  But, the  second half was too confusing.  She got sloppy, and it shows.  The  relationship between Tarik and Kady was too shaky for me to believe that it  was actually true love.                                                             3)  Jude's whole time travel idea in the second half of the book.  I  think Jude forgot about the cosiquences of changing things in the past.   For instance, Tarik's biker straddling cousin stays back, with her cycle  mind you, and when Kady and Tarik return to the real world, nothing has  changed.  This was a little too convinient for me to believe.  One thing I  really enjoy in most of Jude's booksis that it is easy to believe that  this could really happen.  _Legend_... well... it just doesn't make the  grade.<br />But, Jude is a good writer, and I did enjoy _Legend_.  Although  there are problems with the story line, it is still a pretty good book.   So, if you feel you have to read all of Jude's work, it's not a waste of  your time.  But, if you are just looking into Jude Deveraux books, I'd say  wait a while.  If you're looking for a good time travle, try _A Knight in  Shining Armor_, _Remebrance_ (both by Jude Deveraux), or Diana Gabaldon's  _Outlander_ series.	2000-09-19
US	50424166	RK7NHPV1DITQH	0380794489	656635142	Lady Be Good	Books	5	3	4	N	N	You've just got to read it!	Well, I have been considering reading Susan Elizabeth Phillips for a while  now ever since _First Lady_ came out and my bookstore had a huge display  set up for it.  I walked past it a dozen times, each time thinking &quot;I  wonder if she's good&quot;.  Well, this summer, I finally got a chance to  find out, boy is she ever!  Susan's words come alive on the page, and her  stories are so enveloping that you won't want to do anything but read.  I  became extremly involved in the lives of Kenny and Emma.  Their story was  fresh and truly one of my favorite contemporary stories.  This book made me  look at golf in a diferent way.  First, I've got to tell that my family is  all about golf.  We live and breathe it here.  So, when I saw that Kenny  was a golfer, I was a little wary.  But, I now see golf in a diferent  light, and maybe even (gasp!) like it just a little bit.  For those of you  out there who want to learn a little bit about the PGA tour while enjoying  yourself, pick up this book!  You will learn little facts without even  knowing it.  Kenny was a dear character.  At first, you'll think he's a  lazy slug, but you will soon find out that that is just a cover to what  he's really like.  Emma was one of those females that you hope you'll be  like one day.  She's kind, caring, passionate and not perfect... my  favorite combo.  And SEP's writing.  Gosh, what can I say?  She's  fabulous... absolutely fabulous.  _Lady Be Good_ is one of the best books  I've ever read.  But don't just take my word for it; pick up a copy and see  for yourself!	2000-09-15
US	50424166	R2ITFGGVUS32O1	038079828X	99863303	Petals on the River	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A great story, but a little slow.	Well, that's basically how I felt after finishing _Petals on the River_.   The story was great, I loved the characters, and the setting was a nice  change from England or Scotland.  Although it was a well written book,  towards the end, I was starting to get a little bored.  But, this taste of  Kathleen E. Woodiwiss is enough to have me looking for more.  I started  reading her books with _The Flame and the Flower_, and I will definitely be  snatching up her books in the future.<br />Shemaine O'Hearn had the perfect  life.  She was the daughter of a wealthy merchant, she came from a loving  family, she was beautiful, and she was betrothed to the heartthrob of  England.  This all changed when the whim of an overjealous grandmother had  her captured by a theive taker and carried to America on a convict boat.   Shemaine knows that her life will never be the same, and all she can hope  for is that a kind soul will take some pitty on her and that she will be  sold into indentured servatude to a nice family or person.<br />In the town of  Newport Newes lives Gage Thorton, a man haunted by his past.  A year ago,  his wife died, leaving him with a son to take care of.  And, even though  Gage loved his wife dearly, there is supiscion in the town that he killed  his lovely wife.  So, when the convict ship, the London Pride, docks in the  town's port, he is desperate for a nursemaid for his son, and maybe some  company.  As soon as he sees Shemaine, he knows that he must have her, no  matter the cost.  She can educate his son and provide him with some  company.<br />Shemaine is at first wary of her knew job, but soon settles into  it nicely.  Andrew, Gage's two year old son, is a complete doll, and Gage  is the kindest, most handsome man she has ever met.  The two get along  famously, and a love blossoms between them.  But, awful gossip and lies  threaten to rip the two apart.  Can they survive?<br />Kathleen E. Woodiwiss  is really a great author.  Some people complain abouther purple prose, but  I think it makes her books fun to read, and it is easier to imagine the  historical setting that way.  Her use of adjectives really brought the book  to life, and you have no trouble picturing the drama in you head.  Gage and  Shemaine were the type of heros and heroines that I love reading about.   Yes, they were perfect, so what?  The whole point of romance novels is to  get lost in them and to wish that someday you could be like that too.  It  is nice to read about people who don't have to lather on makeup to look  decent.  Shemaine was the woman we would all like to be.  She's kind,  loving, and she has a spine.  When she sees something that is not right,  nothing can stop her from fixing it.  Gage is the man we all want.  He's  handsome, understanding, and doesn't let his pride get in the way of  telling the woman he loves how he feels.  So, all in all, _Petals on the  River_ is a book that you should take the time to read.  Although it does  get slow at times, you will be happy you read it after you finish it.  I  know I am.	2000-09-05
US	50424166	RHNCMXQINO907	038075911X	35717382	The Black Lyon	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Capturing the lion...	can only lead to true love!  With each Jude Deveraux book I read, I fall a  little bit more in love with her writing style.  _The Black Lyon_ was no  exception.  Her style is unique and attention grabbing.  It pulls on your  heartstrings, that's all there is to it.  She is incredibally talented, and  you are missing out if you havn't read any of her work.  She is truly a  treasure in the romance world.<br />He was called the Black Lion for his  blackness in coloring and for his supposed black heart.  So, when Ranulf de  Warbrooke, Third Earl of Malvoisin came to visit Lorancourt, everyone  feared the feirce warlord.  Everyone that is, except for Lyonene, a tawny  haired beauty who saw through Ranulf's gruffness and into his heart of  gold.  The two are instantly attracted and start a whirlwind, romantic  courtship.  After two days, the two lions are already head over heals in  love with one another and decide to get married.<br />While Ranulf is away for  the three week gap between the wedding, he has time to think, which is not  a good thing for he starts to have doubts of Lyonene's affection for him.   Ranulf had had a bad experience with marriage when he was younger, and had  issues with trusting women.  So, when he returned to Lorancourt, he doubted  Lyonene and thought she was marrying him for his money.  He hates her, but  she doesn't understand why.<br />Lyonene knows something is wrong, and by the  time they make it to Malvoison, she resolves to do something to get back  the man she fell in love with.  With a courageous action by Lyonene, Ranulf  wakes up to his blindness and leads a happy life with his wife.  But, an  evil snake works it's way into Malvoisin and plants it's seed of doubt and  mistrust into the happy home.  Lyonene is hurt and confused and foolishly  flees.  Now, only one can save her... her Black Lion.<br />What can I say?   Jude Deveraux is one of the best.  She is an expert at developing the  characters in her stories, and they are amazingly well fleshed out.  I  cared for both Lyonene and Ranulf.  Trust me, you will be on the edge of  your seat, holding your breath to find out what happens to them.  In all of  Jude Deveraux's books, I grow to hate one character.  In _The Black Lyon_,  it was Amicia.  You will, no doubt, hate her too.  Ranulf and Lyonene's  relationship is complicated.  They basically had a case of love at first  sight.  But, they had to work really hard to keep their love alive, and I  really appreciated that.  You will probably dislike Ranulf after his  marriage, but he doesn't stay that way through out the book.  You will just  want him to get over his blindness to see that Lyonene is not who he  thinks.  The plot was interesting, and turned enough to hold your  attention.  Jude Deveraux's words come to life on the page.  You have to  read this book.  I garuntee that you will care for the characters as much  as I did.	2000-08-29
US	50424166	R1EU2GZKAPRQ0O	0553293168	675345837	Ravished	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Taming the beast...	Beauty and the Beast has always been my favorite fairy tale.  When I was  younger, I wanted to hear the story every night.  There is just something  magical about the tale that draws me to it like a moth to a flame.  So when  _Ravished_ came my way, I was once more swept away into this magical story  of where a charming beauty tames a beast.<br />Six years ago, Gideon  Westbrock, the Beast of Blackthorne Hall, had his honor questioned for  life.  He was engaged to a woman who was pregnant before their marriage.   The night she told Gideon, she killed herself.  Everyone said that the  Beast drove her to her death.  This was also around the time when Gideon's  brother was killed, and there were whispers about his being involved in the  killing so that Gideon would come into the title and the money that should  have gone to his older brother.  With a scarred face to match his  reputation, Gideon retreted from Society to become a hermit whose only  activity was to watch over his father's estates.<br />In Upper Biddleton, a  small seaside town, lived Harriet Pomerory, a vicar's daughter.  When her  father died, Harriet took up responsibility of running the house.  Her aunt  came to live with Harriet and Felicity (Harriet's sister) becoming their  gaurdian and helping Felicity prepare for a season that the three hope will  be sponsered by another one of their aunts.  Harriet does not care for  Society and spends her time indulging in her one hobby, fossil collecting.   So, when she discovers that there is a ring of theives opperating in her  caves, who does she summon but Gideon.  Little does Harriet know that she  has just summoned the Beast of Blackthorne Hall back to Upper  Biddleton.<br />Gideon and Harriet are instatnly attracted to one another, and  Harriet looks past Gideon's scars.  The two are crompromised one night in  the caves, and Gideon offers for Harriet's hand in marriage.  Harriet  accepts, but is not willing to give up her freedom.  Will the two be ableto live together in harmony.  Can Harriet melt Gideon's heart of stone?   What about the ring of theives in the caves?<br />_Ravished_ was by far my  favorite Amanda Quick book.  I loved the Beauty and the Beast tale, the sea  side villiage, the glimpse of the ton, Gideon, Harriet, basically  everything in the book.  I really felt awful for Gideon.  He has such a  gentle soul and sense of honor, but he was ruined by vicous gossip.  When  he meets Harriet, it is obvious that she is the only one who can heal his  wounds.  Harriet was wonderful.  Although she was not a complete beauty,  Gideon made her feel breath taking.  That was one thing about the two, they  complimented each other.  Gideon made Harriet feel beautiful, and Harriet  made Gideon feel handsom.  They fit together like peanut butter and jelly,  and it was nice to see Gideon be so affectionate to Harriet right from the  begining.  All of the characters were well fleshed out and extremly well  developed and three demensional.  As always, Amanda Quick made her side  characters important, and I loved reading about them as much as Harriet and  Gideon.  The mystery was one of Amanda's best.  It was very complex, and  there was more then one answer... it kept me guessing until the end.  So,  do yourself a favor and read this wonderful tale about a beast and the  woman who wins his heart.  Highly recomended.	2000-08-25
US	50424166	R3FLMVPVZW092V	067174383X	369934628	The Taming	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Look closer...	If you do, you'll see a magnificent book!  Jude Deveraux should get an  award for being so true to the times she writes about.  This book is chalk  full of historical detail!  I learned much about the medival times by  reading a book I liked!  Not many books can bost that.  The first hundred  pages were... well, they were a bit discuraging.  I thought that Rogan was  a complete pig who thought nothing about his wife, and Lianna was just a  mindless shell who let her maid rule her life.  But, when Lianna gets her  spine, look out!  You'll see the feistyness in her, and you will be amazed.   It is so cute to watch the two fall in love.  With Rogan's rock solid  exterior, you'd expect him to be incapable of love.  But, Liana gets to  him, and he becomes a man you'd love to love for yourself.  This book  starts out slow, but picks up speed and wins your heart as you go.  You  will picture Rogan's home vivedly, and will rout for Liana with all of your  heart.  You will wonder who the Lady is, and want to hit Rogan's brother,  Severn, on the head with a huge boulder just to get him to shut up.  Let me  say again that the begining of _The Taming_ is discoraging, but it is so  much better as you get into it.  Jude Deveraux's words come alive on the  page, and it will make you want to go to England and find your own Rogan.   The chemistry between him and Liana was electric... this book is one you  can not miss!  Read this classic by Jude Deveraux, you will not be  dissapointed.  Highly recomended.	2000-08-20
US	50424166	R8STPG8YCX4T4	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Enchanting!	I started reading Julia Quinn with _The Duke and I_, and instantly knew that I had found a wonderful author.  I happened to own a copy of _How to  Marry a Marquis_ and was fishing it out as soon as I finished the first  book.  Let me say that although _How to Marry a Marquis_ is different from  _The Duke and I_, I was still very happy with it, and I plan to grab any  book I can find by Julia Quinn in the future.<br />Elizabeth Hotchkiss is  wandering through her employer's library when a little red book catches her  attention.  She turns it over, and the cover reads, HOW TO MARRY A MARQUIS.   Since Elizabeth decided just that morning that she was going to have to  marry for money to support her family, she is convinced that someone is  playing a cruel joke on her.  But, when she can find no one, Elizabeth  decides to just borrow the book and see what it has to say.  There's no  harm in that, right?<br />James Sidwell, Marquis of Riverdale was entirely  bored with his life.  After a decade of working in the war office, his life  seemed dull.  So, when he got a message from his aunt, Lady Agatha Danbury,  the woman who raised him and Elizabeth's employer, stating that she was  being blackmailed and needed his help, James jumped at the idea of helping  her.  He wanted to help not only for the excitiment, but becasue he felt he  needed to protect his aunt the way she protected him in his  childhood.<br />James must change his name to James Sidwell and become an  estate manager so that the blackmailer won't recognize him.  When he and  Elizabeth meet, sparks fly.  Elizabeth decides to try out the edicts in HOW  TO MARRY A MARQUIS for catching a husband on James.  When James figures  this out, he decides to help Elizabeth and teach her how to catch a husband  (he thinks that the rules in the book are just rediculas).  The two fall in  love, but Elizabeth feels that she still must marry money, and thinking  that James is just an estate manager that he couldn't possibly support  them.  What will happen when James' identity is revealed?  And, what about  the blackmailer?<br />I loved Elizabeth's family.  She has three other  siblings, Susan (fourteen), Jane (nine), and Lucas (eight).  They made the  book real for me.  Lucas was my favorite.  As soon as he said &quot;Raw  toast!  It goes against the very nature of a man!&quot; my heart was his.   Elizabeth was just wonderful.  It was nice to see that she was so concerned  about her family and that she was willing to sacrifice a lot in her life so  that they could have the things that they wanted to have.  James, well, he  was interesting.  Sometimes, he was most delightful, but other times, when  he couldn't understand things he was just exasperating.  Their relationship  was full of love and sexual tension, and was just lovely to read about.   _How to Marry a Marquis_ is full of humor and wit, and I loved reading it.   It is rather short, and I whizzed through it, but it was still wonderful.   I was introduced to Lady Danbury in _The Duke and I_, and I was thoroughly  delighted to read about her in more depth.  She is old, she knows it, and  she has a tongue that could cut your pride to ribbons.  I think that she  was my favorite character.  Julia Quinn is a gifted writer, and a treasure  in the book world.  Romance fas everywhere will love her humor, wit, and  raw talent.<br />I even liked the cat!	2000-08-18
US	50424166	R20RPNPD4KO3AM	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Romance, humor, even a duel... this book has it all!	I must say the _The Duke and I_ was like a Thanksgiving Turkey for me.  There it was on the table, looking all nice and delicious, but I had to  wait before I could devour it.  _The Duke and I_ was in my HUGE pile of to  be read books for a couple of months before I got the chance to eat.  And,  like the turkey, this book was better on the inside then on the  out...<br />Daphne Bridgerton is the fourth of eight children, and is foundly  refered to by every eligable bachelor as 'the best friend you could ever  have'.  Unfortunately for Daffy, she desprately wants to get married.  This  presents quite a problem because the only men who want Daff as more then a  friend are people she could never see herself living with.  And, because of  her audacious mama, the bachelors that don't think of Daffy as a great  friend are frightened off by Violet.  So, for a girl already on her second  season and getting precariously close to becoming a spinster, the husband  candidates are few and far between.<br />Then we have Simon Basset, newly  appointed the Duke of Hastings.  Simon's childhood was a tortured one...  the boy being his father's only son, there was a lot of pressure put on  him.  And, when the boy didn't speak until he was four, and when he did  speak, he had a horrible stutter.  This was enough to push Simon's father  away from his son forever.  The poor little boy was extremly determined to  overcome his stutter and make his father proud of him, but the late Duke of  Hastings could not get over his notion that Simon was a nit-wit.  Simon  grew up to be extremly smart, and earned the reputation of a rake among  men.  So, when he returns to London after his father dies, the vicious  vultures that are politely reffered to as Mamas attack him, looking for a  husband for their daughters.  When Simon and Daphne meet, they decide to  form a plan.<br />Intrigued?<br />It gets better.<br />Their plan is to pretend to  have developed a tendre for one another.  That way, the Mamas will stay  away from Simon, and men will start to look at Daff in a new light.  But,  what happens when the two start to fall head over heals in love with each  other?<br />Through out these events, there is one gossip colomnist who is  reporting it all.  The ton refers to her as Lady Whistledown even though  the name is obviously fake.  The woman seems to have spies everywhere, and  knows of things, it seems, before they happen.  Bits and pieces of her  gossip colomn are stuck in at the begining of each chapter and make the  book ten times more entertaining then it already is.  If you don't want to  read this book, I would suggest it to you for no other reason then to get a  kick out of this woman's view of the ton.  It is garunteed to get a laugh  out of you and make you itch to find out who this woman is.<br />I sincerly  enjoyed _The Duke and I_.  It had everything I look for in a book in it.   Romance, humor, family, and a little bit of seriousness... but just enough  to make you believe that this may have really happened.  Simon... well, I  fell completely in love with him.  Julia Quinn was very smart to include  the prologue describing Simon's childhood.  It strengthened the character  development tremendously and it helps the reader see how he developed into  the man he was.  Because of his stutter, I felt very attached and (if this  is possible to feel for a character in a book) protective of him.  I often  wanted to hop into the book and give him a hug and a kiss on his cheek.   Daphne... well she was wonderful.  Her spunk and love were all lovely, and  her devotion to Simon will bring tears to your eyes.  You will laugh at her  wit, and cheer for her bravery.  When Simon is a blockhead (and trust me,  he seriously knows how to be stubborn) you want her to give him a punch for  you.  It was nice to see the heroine deffend herself, but to have been able  to do it without a gun or a knife was commendable.  Daphne knew how to get  down and use her hands to defend herself if that was ever needed, and I  found it a nice change from the usual self defense that romance heroines  usually have.  I absolutely loved her family.  They added spice to this  turkey... dare I say they were the stuffing?  I can tell there are going to  be sequals because Daphne's three oldest brothers were so well developed.   Julia Quinn's writing style is just my type, it's light and bouncy and full  of humor (it is garunteed that you will laugh out loud at least once) but  also keeps you grounded.  Her humor is not complicated, it's basically what  you see is what you get, and it was nice to take a break from sarcastic  humor to just plain old comedy.  Although, the characters' dialogues are  full of hysterical, witty sarcasm that will bring a smile to you face and  have you in awe of Julia's ability to write.  This book was so good that I  was reading it even as my eyes were fully dialated from an eye exam (not an  easy feat if you ask me).<br />If you question Julia's humor, just read the  little bio of her on the back inside cover of any of her books.  If that  doesn't get a chuckle out of you, read the dedication on one of the first  pages.  Trust me, this book is excellent.  When you add up all of the  ingrediants I've mentioned above, you'll get one great turkey.  I can't  wait to read more of her work.	2000-08-16
US	50424166	R2I6JN3AOOFO1S	067173976X	170117719	Counterfeit Lady (James River Trilogy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Just plain wonderful!	I had been looking really hard at the James River series before I decided to take the plunge and by _Counterfeit Lady_.  A friend's recomendation is  what finally pushed me over the edge, and I have been asking myself why I  didn't do it sooner.  This book is just plain fabulous.  I was emediatly  swept up into the book, and had a hard time leading a normal life.  Jude  Deveraux is a master at her genre, and sure knows how to write!  This book  reminded me of why I love romance so much.  I can't wait to read the rest  of the series!<br />Nicole Courtalain was part of the French aristocracy when  the Revolution broke out.  Her family was slaughtered, and she fled to  England.  Bianca Maleson found her and decided to take Nicole in as her  maid.  Not wanting to be an object of charity, but not wanting to have to  make it on the streets, Nicole accepted Bianca's offer.  Over the months  that Nicole lived with the Maleson's she decided that there had to be a  better life out there for her.  When one of her cousins aproached Nicole on  the street with an offer to become a partner with her in a dress making  shop, Nicole gladly accepted, working hard to get the money to become  partner.  Bianca is an obeese woman who is terrified of men.  Unfortunatly,  she is engaged.  While Nicole is taking Bianca for a ride in the park,  kidnappers come to take Bianca.  Never before having met her, they take  Nicole by mistake.  Although Bianca has treated her badly, Nicole still  feels that she must protect her, so she doesn't tell the men of their  mistake right away, planning to let Bianca get back to safety.  But, the  kidapper's drug Nicole, and by the time she wakes up, she is on a ship  already well on it's way to America.  The captain is greedy and because  Bianca's fiance is paying him much to abduct a woman from England and marry  her to him by proxy, he is not willing to turn around, and figures that  Nicole will do just as good as Bianca did.  Forced into a proxy marriage,Nicole is now Mrs. Clayton Armstrong.<br />Janie, a woman sent to help Bianca  on the trip to America, is furious with Clayton.  Over the long trip, she  and Nicole became very close, and now she is going to give that stubborn  man a peice of her mind.  But, Nicole and Clayton are stuck with each other  as the only way to get their marriage annuled is if they can prove that  Nicole was forced into the union, and the only sound witness was on his way  back to England.  <br />Nicole falls in love with Clay right away, but he is  blindly in love with Bianca (for a reason that will only be revealed to you  in the book).  When it becomes apparent that the marriage could possibly be  permanent, Clay starts letting his affection for her out of it's iron  clasp, and there may be a chance at happiness for the two.  He thinks that  although Bianca would have been ideal, Nicole may not be a bad second  choice.  But there is always the threat of Bianca hanging over their heads,  and when she comes to America, things are turned upside down.  Can Clay and  Nicole learn how to be together, or will two greedy people tear them  apart?<br />I can't tell you how wonderful this book was.  I was pulled into  it as I havn't been before.  I could see the American wilds, and had a  picture of each character made up in my mind.  Jude Deveraux perfectly  described everything to me, and I was so involved in the world of Nicole  and Clay that the book was finished far too fast for my liking.   _Counterfeit Lady_ is not your typical romance.  It is the story of two  people who fall in love with each other and then have to overcome many,  many obsticals to be together.  The majority of the book is not about them  falling in love and living happily ever after... they fall in love and have  to work HARD to be together.  Nicole was the perfect heroine.  She was  petit, smart, beautiful and faithful.  You know that she is going to be  with Clay, but it is something that she will have to work very hard for.   Clay was a very interesting hero.  Sometimes I felt like he was sweet and  kind, and other times, well... I would have liked to kill him.  His blind  love for Bianca made him rather anoying, but he got over that (but, a  little too late).  Now, Bianca was a character I really hated.  Jude  Deveraux made her so real to me that if I walked out onto the street and  saw Bianca, I would have smacked her one right on the face.  I thought I  would hate her throughout the book, but I did feel sorry for her.  Jude  Deveraux is quickly becoming one of my very favorite authors, and this book  is one of my very favorites.  Read it, it's garunteed enjoyment.	2000-08-15
US	50424166	R3O2UOO6N7LPO9	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This book will make you believe!	Although I have been a Christian since I was five, this whole series has made me look again at my relationship with God.  It will make you seriously  question your faith.  I personally think that Tim Lahaye and Jerry B.  Jenkins are gifted writers and researchers, and that they just get better  as the saga continues.  With each word I read, I wanted to find out more  about the people who had been left behind.  I was thouroghly engrossed in  their triles and tribulations that I was exclaiming out loud whenever  something exciting happened (which was often).<br />Nicolae Carpathia is dead.   Was he shot?  Was he slewn?  Did Rayford do it?  These are the questions  that you are left with at the end of the last book, _Assasins_.  It was  enough for me to be waiting on pins and needles for the next book to come  out.  As soon as I had time, _The Indwelling_ was in my hands and was  quickly devoured.  The whole Tribulation Force is once more throwwn into  turmoil.  Rayford is stuck in New Babylon, the murder of Carpathia  seemingly on his hands.  Buck is desprately trying to find his old friend,  Chaim Rosenzweig who is lost in the crowd at the Global Gala (a celebration  of the Antichrist, kind of like a bigger version of the World's Fair).   Chloe fights thoughts of killing her baby, Kenny (I'm sure they ment no  reference to South Park)to keep him from entering the enemy's lair.  Tsion  has strange out of body experiences that make him question his sanity.   And, David and Annie, two believers on enemy ground, try to avoid being  discovered.  There is also Hattie, who is thought to be in prisson in  Brussles, but who is really running free through the US, which threatens  the safety of the safe house.  Meanwhile, Carpathia is being prepared for  his funeral and his body size is multiplied twenty four times to make a  bronze sculpture of him.  Can the troupe survive all of this?  Will  Carpathia ever come back from the dead to be indwelt by the devil himself?   Read this book to find out.<br />I was very happy with the attention that was  put into detail this time around.  Some of the other books seemed rather  rushed so that the author's could fit the whole Tribulation into seven  books.  But, with the change to twelve total books, they seem to be much  less hurried, and put more attention to detail and good writing.  This  series has really put Revelation into much easier terms for me.  When I  looked at the book (Revelation) itself it was hard to understand each  thing.  Of course, these books are just interpertations of what might  happen, but I still understand better.  All of the characters stood out for  me, and I was excited to turn the pages and find out what happens.  At some  points, I was wondering, along with the characters, if some people were  good or bad, and eventually if Nicolae was really the Antichrist.  I can't  really express how good this book is to you unless we were face to face, so  let me just say that this whole series is worth reading and it will  spiritually influence your life.  I can't wait to read _The Mark_ coming  out this fall.	2000-08-14
US	50424166	R2EWLRPF6XU96V	0380753006	796463661	Savage Thunder (Wyoming-Western Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just plain wonderful!	What more can I say?  This book is just fabulous!  I am a huge fan of  historical romance, and recently discovered Johanna Lindsey.  Let me tell  you, I am dissapointed that I havn't found her sooner.  Her writing is  fresh and lite... just enough to give you a little historical lesson  without boring you.  Johanna's characters are amazingly three dimensional,  her plots are unique and interesting, and her choice of setting is  delightful.  I must say that I was getting rather tired of Regency England,  and I was quite happy that _Savage Thunder_ took place in historical  America.  I have been hunting the shelves of my bookstore and library  trying to find a good American historical, and I finally found one.  Colt  Thunder was a fabulous hero.  I loved the fact that he was half Native  American and had no social standing whatsoever.  Sometimes, I get the  feeling that romance novelists are trying to tell their readers that the  only way to have a really desireable man is if he is a duke or lord or  something.  With Colt, you know that Jocelyn loves him for him, and no  other reason.  He was tall, strong, handsom, etc...  I just loved him!   Jocelyn was the perfect person for him.  She was strong, independent, and  wouldn't let anyone tell her what to do... even the man she loved.  The  scene where she tricks Colt into working for her will bring a smile to your  face and warmth to your heart.  The relationship these two people had was  special and touching.  FYI!  This book is the second in a trilogy.  It  starts with _Brave The Wild Wind_, and the series ends with _Angel_.  As I  usually start series out of order, _Savage Thunder_ was the book I started  with.  But, I have every intention of finishing the series.  So if you love  historicals, and are looking for a change of pace, I would highly recomend  _Savage Thunder_ to you.  It is lite, funny and touching.  Enjoy!	2000-08-12
US	50424166	R12LZ266T998YB	0671523090	778118920	Flash	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Set your mind on cruise control and sit back for enjoyment!	Okay, I'll come out with it.  Jayne Ann Krentz may not be the most origional story teller out there.  Sure, alot of her books have similare  story lines.  But, guess what?  If you've ever read more then one of John  Grisham's books or read a handful of any of Judith McNaught's books, you'll  know that it is a common thing in the world of author's to recycle plots  somewhat.  Each book always has enough quirks in it to make it an  origional, and _Flash_ is no different.  Jayne Ann Krentz has used her  trademark story line, but has added a new twist to it.  So don't judge her  because her books are a little similare.  It's a common thing.  Anyways,  back to the book.<br />Olivia Chantry is the owner of a company called Light  Fantastic.  When her company is hired by another, their job is to make sure  that the party that the company that hired them is giving is decorated and  set up.  Olivia gets most of her supplies for her job from her uncle's  company Glow Inc. which supplies all of the lighting for the events.  It is  assumed by the Chantry clan that when Uncle Rollie passes on, Olivia will  take over and that the buissness will stay within the family.  But, when  good ol' Rollie dies, it is discovered that a couple years back, he needed  some financial help and got it from Jasper Sloan.  To pay back his debts to  Jasper, Rollie had it set up so that if anything ever happened to him,  Jasper would own 51% of the company.  So, Olivia is stuck with only 49% of  Glow.  The two clash when they first meet, Olivia thinking that Jasper will  sell his percent of the company to her, and Jasper thinking that he will do  no such thing.  They work it out, and an attraction developes into  something more serious.  But, Olivia's aunt is being blackmailed, and the  two are dragged into the scheme.  As the blackmailer's threats become more  personal, can Jasper and Olivia survive to live happily ever after?<br />I  really did enjoy this book.  Although Krentz's mystery was not atit's  strongest, I was still guessing until the end.  The mystery plot was a lot  more complex then it has been in previous books, and I found that to be a  very nice element to _Flash_.  Olivia and Jasper's relationship was not hot  and heavy, but it fitted nicely with the mystery, and I was not at all  dissapointed with it.  It's true that Krentz has used the same blackmail  theme in one of her books under the name of Amanda Quick.  But, _Mistress_,  the historical romance in question, is one of my favorites by Quick/Krentz,  and I thorougly enjoyed seeing it in a modern setting.  Krentz's dialogue  is at it's prime in this book, and I have yet to see another author match  her in such witty exchanges between their characters.  I love the setting  of Seattle, and Ms. Krentz does it justice.  She describes every place with  such great ease, that it is obvious that she is a local.  For all of you  out there that want a good picture of what the Seattle atmosphere is, I  suggest you pick up a book by JAK.  Don't let the other reviews here fool  you.  This book is a flashy gem among books.  It is garunteed enjoyment!	2000-08-09
US	50424166	R23KXL93YU22RS	0671705091	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books I have read in a long time!	I started reading Jude Deveraux with one of her other time travle romances, _Rembrance_.  It was fabulous, and so I decided to move on into  the world of Jude Deveraux's books.  I had heard so much about _A Knight in  Shining Armor_ that when I saw it, I imediatly jumped on it and walked out  of my local book store with a grin on my face that was a mile wide for  finding such a hard to find treasure.  I got home and was at one entranced  in Jude Deveraux's masterpiece.  Let me just tell you that this book moved  me very deeply and anyone who even remotely likes books should have a place  in their hearts reserved for this one.<br />Dougless Montgomery is having a  really bad day.  It all started with her boyfriend's daughter Gloria.  But,  before we get into that, you need to know some backround of Dougless.  She  comes from the famous Montgomery family (does the name sound familiar?  It  should, Jude has about a million historicals dedicated to the family) and  is their source of entertainment.  When Dougless makes a mistake, her nose  is rubbed in it.  So, when she met the sucsessful doctor Robert, she  decided to do something to make her family proud of her... she decided to  marry him.  Of course, Robert doesn't want the comitment, but that doesn't  stop Dougless from trying to get him in her hands.  When the two first move  in, they decide to plan a trip to England a year from that day.  Then, they  will decide if they want to marry.  Dougless puts her heart and soul into  the trip, finding the most romantic hotels and the most informative stops,  everything to make the trip a fabulous succsess, and to hopefully squeeze a  proposal out of Robert.  So, when Dougless sees a jewelry purchase made by  Robert about a month before the trip for five thousand dollars, Dougless  just about hits the roof in excitement.  And, on their way to the airport,  Robert says he has a surprise for Dougless.  Thinking it is the proposal,  Dougless just smiles and keeps her mouth shut about what she thinks is  going on.  But, at the airport, her dreams are squashed when Robert's  horrible little daughter, Gloria pops up and it turns out that Robert's  surprise was this little monster.  Of course, Dougless has to pay for  Gloria's plane ticket and she still has to pay for half of the trip even  though Robert should be paying for Gloria and not her.  You'd think that  this would be okay because Dougless's family is rich, but she doesn't come  into her inheritance until she's thrity five so at the moment she's living  off a kindergarten teacher's less then flattering salery.  But, Dougless  just takes a deep breath and tells herself that Robert still has marriage  intentions.  Well, Dougless was wrong.  That five thousand dollar purchase  was for Gloria.  Robert purchased an expensive diamond bracelett for his no  good thirteen year old.  So, Dougless just snaps.  She's been forced to sit  in the back of the car with the luggage, sleep on a cot in the hotel's and  listen to Gloria long enough.  While the three of them are viseting a  church, Dougless lets Gloria have it.  Robert and his snotty little girl  leave Dougless stranded in the country without her money or passport.  She  is left to starve.  Sobbing, Dougless stumbles into the church and colapses  in front of the tomb of Nicholas Stafford.  Mournfully she cries out for  her knight in shining armor.  When she turns around, there he is.  A man  dressed in armor.  He claims to be Nicholas Stafford.  Dougless just thinks  he's a nutcase and wants to leave him to make it in the world alone, but he  won't leave her.  Dougless slowly starts to believe him, and wants to help  him.  For you see, Nicholas Stafford was to be executed in his own time for  treason that he never comited.  Together, the two look for the truth while  Nicholas is introduced to the twentieth century.  It is so precious to see  him look at different things in wonder.  But, as soon as the two fall in  love, Nicholas is whisked back to his own time.  Dougless must figure out  how to get to him to help him save his honor, and is taken back in time,  but to a Nicholas who doesn't remember her.  Can Dougless convince him that  she is not a luney or a witch?  Will she have to sacrifice the love of  their's that was able to last throughout time?<br />Whew!  I really really  really loved this book!  Dougless and Nicholas seemed like real people to  me, and I wanted to walk out onto the streets and meet them.  Jude Deveraux  is just fabulous at writing time travel.  Some authors make the plot where  everything is new to the hero seem so dull and unorigional.  Not with this  book.  It is just wonderful to see Nicholas describe everything.  Jude  Deveraux is truly a gifted writer.  I was already hating a character  (Gloria) fifteen pages into the book.  I also liked seeing historical  England from a modern point of view.  From descriptions of the steel  corsets to revelations of ancient bathrooms, it was all new to me, and you  get a little historical lesson through this book.  _A Knight in Shining  Armor_ is one of the few romance novels that I have sobbed in.  This is  most definitely a Kleenex book.  And, while some other reviewers complained  about the ending, I loved it.  This book does end happily no matter what  everyone else might say.  So, if you want a wonderful romance that will  touch you to your soul and make you believe in everything from time travel  to true love, start hunting for a copy of this book and stock up on  Kleenex.  This book has a special place in my heart, and I know you will  love it too.  Good luck finding a copy of this classic!	2000-08-07
US	50424166	R1UIG7L3835OJY	0553574078	20352432	Affair	Books	5	11	14	N	N	The end of the _Affair_...	... is just the begining of a world of wonderful stories by the talented Ms. Quick.  If you have yet to read a book by Amanda Quick, I seriously envy you... you have many discoveries yet to make.  _Affair_ is one of my  top Amanda Quick books.  Yes, it is similare to all of her other books, but  that's what makes this author a comfort read.  You can read one of her  books and be assured to have enjoyment.<br />The Hero:  This time around, our  hero is Baxter St. Ives.  He is the illegitament son of the Earl of  Esherton.  Because of all the gossip that inevitably surrounds him, Baxter  learned early on to retreat to his labratory.  In doing this, he became a  man of science, thoroughly engrossed with his experiments.  During the time  of Napeleon, he was with another of his scientist friends.  Together, they  had created an acid that burned flesh.  Baxter's partner, Morgan Judd,  wanted to betray England and sell the potion to Napoleon to help him win  the war.  Baxter wouldn't allow it, and he spilled all of the acid and took  the recipe with him as he set the labratory on fire and fled.  Assuming  Judd was dead, Baxter went on his way to live peacfully within his  labratory once more.  Until his aunt came to him for help.  Her best friend  had been murdered, and she suspects a woman of being a murderess and a  blackmailer.  Reluctnatly, Baxter agrees to help his aunt.  In doing so  lead him to...<br />The Heroine:  Who happens to be Charlotte Arkendale, the  woman whom Baxter's aunt suspects of killing her best friend.  Five years  ago, Charlotte and her sister, Ariel, were sleeping in their house.   Charlotte was awakened when their stepfather came home drunk.  She heard  some confussion outside her sister's door.  Grabbing her father's unloaded  pistol, she went out to investigate.  It turned out that her father owed  the man that was with him a lot of money, and to pay off his debts, he was  selling Ariel's virginity to the man.  Charlotte forces them out of the  house with the pistol.  The next morning, their stepfather is found dead.   Charlotte is forced to make a job for herself, and makes an unsual carrier.   She investigates the pasts of gentlemen who are thinking to marry women.   Her last client was Baxter's aunt's best friend, and she feels it is her  duty to find out what happened to her last client.  When she and Baxter  meet, sparks fly, and it leads to...<br />The Affair:  Charlotte and Baxter  decide to join forces to find out who the murderer was.  As they get closer  and closer to the murderer, a love forms between the two.  But, can they  stay alive long enough to be truly happy?<br />I truly enjoyed _Affair_.   Because it is a romance novel, the end is never in doubt, but that is one  reason I enjoy romance so much.  Baxter and Charlotte were wonderful to  read about, and I do believe Quick was at her wittiest in this book.   Baxter often unkowingly said some amazingly romantic things.  My favorite  quote is as follows<br />*Charlotte*  Baxter, are you ill?<br />*Baxter*  Very  likely.  If I am, one thing is certain.  You are the only one who can  supply the elixer I require to cure the fever.<br />The only thing that  dissapointed me in this book is that I found the mystery to be quite easy  to solve.  In all of Quick's other books, I was guessing until the end.   But, with _Affair_ I had a susspect in my mind right away.  Don't get me  wrong, I still wanted to keep reading, if only to see if my guess was  right.  So, if you are a book fan, I highly recomend this book to you.  It  is guarenteed to give you hours of enjoyment while supplying you with a  nice lite story.	2000-07-23
US	50424166	R253PDNK6ZNDYH	0515122734	942831312	Sanctuary	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Picture perfect...	I have been wanting to read Nora Roberts for a long time, but I never really got around to it.  Finally, _Sanctuary_ caught my eye, and I started reading it.  Let me tell you right now, if you want to read this book,  clear your day so you can sit back and read for hours.  You will not be  able to do anything until you find out what happens next.<br />Jo Ellen  Hathaway is being stalked.  In her mail, she keeps recieving pictures of  her eyes.  Once when they're closed, once half open, and the latest  installment to the collection... one with her eyes open and showing stark  terror.  She thinks she can handle it.  She's a famos photographer, this  guy's just sending her pictures to check out his work, right?  Wrong.  The  morning after Jo gets the last picture of her eyes, an envelope comes in  the mail.  She opens it, and out come tons of pictures of her doing her  everyday things.  At the grocery store, at work, walking on the streets.  He knows everywhere she's been, what she's been doing, and how she did it.  But there's one picture in the pile that isn't of Jo.  She single's it out  and looks at it in mounting horror.  It's not a picture of her, it's of her  mother.  The mother who left her and her family on the island they own  twenty years ago.  Annabelle is naked on the beach, her hair splayed.  But,  her eyes are glassy and it is obvious she's dead.  This pushes Jo over the  edge and she has a breakdown.  Meanwhile, on Desire, the family island, her  family is going on it's disfunctional way.  Sanctuary, the house Jo grew up  in, has been turned into an inn, and everything is going along it's merry  way.  Jo decides, after she is let out of the hospital, to return to  Sanctuary and find her sanctuary there from the stalker.  At home, things  are a little rough, but she connects with her brother, sister, and father.  And a man is introduced to her.  A man who can make her feel like a woman  again.  But something is wrong.  Jo's stalker followed her home.  Will she  be able to survive?  And what really happened to Annabelle those twenty  years ago?<br />Like I said, this was my first book by Nora Roberts and I was  completely blown away.  I am a fan of Jayne Ann Krentz, and usually turn to  her books when I want a mystery/suspense/romance.  Could it be that my  favorite suspense author is being pushed aside? It could be!  I was  guessing at &quot;who dun it&quot; for the entire book.  When you think  you've got it figured out, guess again, for Nora's got another ace up her  sleave.  The characters were three dimensional, witty, spunky, loveable,  flawed, everything I look for in a book with good character development.  In the beginging, I was a little bored with the plot, but as I got into it,  there was no way I would do anything else but read this book.  Nathan and  Jo's relationship was totally believable, and I loved the role reversal at  the begining when they first meet (Jo fixes Nathan's car while he has no  idea what to do or what is wrong with it).  I was impressed with Nora  Robert's sense of family, and it shines through in this book.  One minute I  was on the edge of my seat, the next I was sitting back on the couch  sighing.  _Sanctuary_ sends a storm of emetion through you, and it is such  a wonderful read.  So, for any romance fan, _Sanctuary_ is highly  recomended.Will she  be able to survive?  And what really happened to Annabelle those twenty  years ago?<br />Like I said, this was my first book by Nora Roberts and I was  completely blown away.  I am a fan of Jayne Ann Krentz, and usually turn to  her books when I want a mystery/suspense/romance.  Could it be that my  favorite suspense author is being pushed aside? It could be!  I was  guessing at &quot;who dun it&quot; for the entire book.  When you think  you've got it figured out, guess again, for Nora's got another ace up her  sleave.  The characters were three dimensional, witty, spunky, loveable,  flawed, everything I look for in a book with good character development.   In the beginging, I was a little bored with the plot, but as I got into it,  there was no way I would do anything else but read this book.  Nathan and  Jo's relationship was totally believable, and I loved the role reversal at  the begining when they first meet (Jo fixes Nathan's car while he has no  idea what to do or what is wrong with it).  I was impressed with Nora  Robert's sense of family, and it shines through in this book.  One minute I  was on the edge of my seat, the next I was sitting back on the couch  sighing.  _Sanctuary_ sends a storm of emetion through you, and it is such  a wonderful read.  So, for any romance fan, _Sanctuary_ is highly  recomended.	2000-07-17
US	50424166	R2N369B9B2SPVE	0553567152	399517740	Don't Die, My Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The most moving peice of fiction I've ever read!	This book was recomended to me by my cousin.  &quot;Yeah, it'sa romance,&quot; she told me, &quot;but you'll love it.&quot; I was alittle hesitant at first.  The title kind of threw me off, but I trusted her judgment, and decided to go for it.  Right away I was pulled into the book and read it for the rest of the day.<br />Julie Ellis and Luke Muldenhower are the perfect high school couple.  He's gorgeous and the star of the football team, and she's beautiful and smart.  They are in love, and everything seems perfect.  Until Luke gets the flu and just can't shake it.  When his regular doctor can't find anything wrong, Luke is sent to the hospital and has some serious tests done.  It turns out he has Hodgkin's lymphobia, a kind of cancer.  And so begins Luke's journey for a cure.  Julie is always there for him, but will their love outlive a fatal cancer?<br />This book really pulls your heart strings.  The research of Hodgkin's is outstanding, and I learned much, much more by reading it. Luke and Julie were very real characters to me, and it was wonderful to watch Julie's transformstion from a girl who worries only about her life with Luke as they get older to a girl who worries about Luke now.  I was sobbing my heart out at the end, and didn't want it to be over. The ending is touching and beautiful, and just made me cry harder. So, if you want a fantastic story of a first love, pick up the nearest copy of _Don't Die, My Love_.  Don't forget your tissues.	2000-07-17
US	50424166	R1JZURJCGY3GCY	0671523074	548467820	Eye of the Beholder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beauty is in the eye of the beholder...	This is the second book I read by JAK, and I was a little cautious of it.  All those nasty reviews on Amazon, I thought.  Let me tell you I was happily surprised...<br />Alexa Chambers has thought of JL Trask for twelve  years, reliving the night he came and threatened her stepfather Lloyd.  He  did more then threaten Lloyd though, he acused him of the murder of his  father.  When Trask left, Lloyd was confident that the young man would  never return, but Alexa knew better.  She knew he would be back.  And now,  twelve years later, a new resort is opening in Avalon, Arizona, and it's  owner is Trask.  Planing on coming to the opening ofhis hotel, Trask is  secretly planing to unearth the mystery behind his father's death which was  labled as an acident.  Alexa is conected to the resort, but no one knows  about it.  Years before, she was connected to an art scam and it ruined her  reputation as an honest art consultant.  Now, she is planning to break out  into the art world again by putting together a museum worthy collection of  art deco for the lobby of Trask's hotel.  She is secretly consulting the  man Trask hired for the job so the collection is really hers.  The two meet  on the night of the opening, and sparks fly.  Trask proposes a deal with  Alexa.  She will be seen with him to make people talk and in turn, Alexa  will be informed of his investigations.  But, the kooky local metaphysical  resort seems to have something wrong that is stirring the waters.  And,  people are dying, and they are identical to Trask's father's death.  Will  Alexa and Trask be the next victims?  Can they find out who the murderer is  before it's too late?  And, will their love survive?<br />_Eye of the  Beholder_ is a fabulous romance/suspense that kept me wanting more.  The  tale was unique and fast paced with colorful characters and enough quirks  to make it interesting.  Alexa was the classic Krentz heroine: not  completely beautiful, smart, fiesty, and has enough mettle to be able to  take anything.  Trask was also very Krentz: tall, handsome, brooding, and  with a dark past.  Together, the two fit and go together like peanut butter  and jelly.  The dialogue was witty and humorus and a treat to read.  I was  not dissapointed by this latest JAK offering, and I would suggest it to  anyone who is looking for a fast paced, high quality, witty, romance that  is heavy on the suspense.  Enjoy!	2000-07-16
US	50424166	R97QZD4UTROYK	0380005255	833024518	The Flame and the Flower (The Birmingham Family)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good example of how romances today came to be!	I picked up _The Flame and the Flower_ off the shelves and took a good look at it.  I had stumbled upon a hardcover edition, and decided to give it a try on a friends recomendation.  Right away I noticed the copyright  date, and had some precautions.  &quot;What about those romances from the  seventies.  Ick!&quot; was ringing in my head as I started.  Let me tell  you right now, if you have that voice in your head, burry it and find the  nearest copy of this novel and start reading.<br />We are introduced to  Heather, a slave in her aunts house.  When her aunt's brother, William  Court, comes for a visit, he drools over Heather and decides to take her  back to London with him.  Heather is excited to be leaving her cruel aunt  at last and packs her things quickly.  But Williams intentions are not  quite so pure and he trys to rape her as soon as they are in his house.   Frantic Heather picks up a fruit knife and he falls on it.  Thinking he is  dead, Heather flees.  While wondering the streets, two sea men pick her up  for their captain, mistaking her for a whore.  The captain, Brandon  Birminghm, strips Heather of her clothes, pride, and virginity.  Thinking  to make her his mistriss, he leaves Heather in his chamber, but she escapes  and, because there is no where else to go, returns to her aunt's home.   Heather is put to work at harder tasks then ever before, but when it is  found that she is pregnant, Brandon is summoned and forced to wed Heather.   While the two sail back to America, a love forms between them, but is so  precious that it can be knocked over by a puff of air.  But a dark shadow  from Heather's past swirls forth with a secret that could destroy her.   Will this love of theirs be puffed out?<br />Like many other readers, I found  the rape scene at the beginging of the book disturbing.  But, you have to  keep in mind that this is their society, not ours, and even though it is  wrong in any time, it was tolerated in theirs.  At first, Brandon was very  awful to Heather.  I thought if he did one more &quot;mocking&quot; thing  I'd toss the book out the window.  But Heather slowly steal his heart, and  it is fun to watch.  Heather was a very complex character.  She has her  past present and future to deal with all at once, and they are all  balancing very delicatly.  It was wonderful to see her cahnge from being  timid and scared to being a strong, sassy woman.  The change comes from  being around Brandon.  Ms. Woodiwiss abused the word mock and all it's  forms in this book, but other then that I enjoyed the use of adjectives.   She is obviously very wordy, but I enjoyed it.  The plot is a little slow  in the begining, but it picks up pace and by the end of the book you will  be reaching for more of the Birmingham series.<br />But, even though I enjoyed  it, I've still got to say... we've come a long way, baby!	2000-07-16
US	50424166	R14NDKWSKDWF3N	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Whoa!  What happened to Judith McNaught?	Let me start out by saying that _Remember When_ is truly a great book... but it is not the spectacular romance I was expecting.  Maybe my hopes were too high, after all I had just read _Paradise_ befor this book.  For those  of you who havn't read _Paradise_, stop whatever you're doing and go read  that fabulous book.  I could not get myself out of the world Ms. McNaught  painted in that book, I laughed, cried, and screamed in the right spots and  was left with an empty feeling when I finished it.  I have read it so many  times that my boyfriend is starting to get jealous of the book.  But, back  to _Remember When_...<br />Diana and Cole's relationship never really meant  anything to me.  It seemed like all of a sudden they were married and  automatically were in love.  It was like Ms. McNaught was saying marriage =  love which, if you've read any of her other books, is not usually the case.   Although in most of Ms. McNaught's books she spends a lot of time with the  characters memories of the past, I felt she spent too much time with Diana  and Cole's childhood.  I wanted a romance and I was left with very little.   But, if you consider this book to be regular fiction then I guess it would  be pretty good, hence the three stars I gave it.<br />If romance is what  you're looking for, though, this book is not for you.  I found more passion  in an autobiography of Herbert Hoover.  Ms. McNaught, where did you go?   Please, let's have more books like _Almost Heaven_, _Paradise_, _Until  You_, and _Whitney, My Love_.<br />Come back Mr. President, all is forgiven!	2000-07-03
US	50424166	R1VPZ0VB8J00PX	0671023578	793793081	Remembrance	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Soul mates or hocus pocus?	I have been wanting to read something by Jude Deveraux for a long time, and while at my library, _Rememberance_ caught my attention.  I hadn't heard anything about it, but thought, hey what the heck, and picked it up.   As you start reading, you are introduced to Hayden Lane, an unhappy romance  writer who is in love with a man she made up for one of her stories but  never actually wrote about.  She becomes more obsessed with him, and her  fiance dumps her.  Wanting to find out what is wrong with her, Hayden seeks  professional help, but no one can tell her what is wrong.  When she seeks  out a physcic named Nora, the woman tells Hayden that she is unhappy in  this life because of something that happened in her past life.  She can  never find love because in the Elizabethan age she and her soul mate put  curses on each other that would make it so that they would never be happy  together, in the life they were living, or in future lives.  This intrigues  Hayden, and she is soon digging up stuff about a woman, Lady de Grey, whom  is said by Nora to be one of her former selves during the early 1900s.   During a hypnotising session with her friend Millie's hypnotist, Hayden is  whisked back to the time of Lady de Grey and promptly faints because of the  unpleasent sensation of a corsett.  Lady de Grey is married to her soul  mate, but because of the past curses, they hate each other.  Hayden sees  that she can do nothing to make the two love each other and figures that  she will never find love because it is impossible to make the two love each  other.  She sees an add for a hypnotist and figures that that will be her  ticket back to the future.  When Hayden tells the hypnotist where she would  like to go, she inocently says &quot;the begining&quot; meaning back to her  own time, but instead she is taken back to the begining when the soul mate  buissness first started with her, the Elizabethan age.<br />In that age, the  story begins of Talis and Callesandra (Hayden).The two are born on the  same day in the same hour and somehow their spirits are intertwined.  They  grow up together, but cannot be sepparated for long or else the two will  basically grow weak and die.  When they grow up, the two look at each other  with a deep deep love.  But a long standing hate threatens the two's rare  and amazing love.  Will Hayden be able to figure out how to undo the curses  the two put on each other and will she be able to get back to her own  time?<br />_Rememberance_ is truly an epic novel with twists and turns and  three loves in one.  The character development of Talis and Callie (the two  real main characters) is spectacular.  I felt for Callie and thought she  was one of the best romantic heroines I've seen in a while.  She is not  drop dead gorgeous, but she has a mind of her own and tells amazing  stories.  Talis is absolutely wonderful.  He *is* handsom, but thinks  himself a shadow compared to Callie and thinks she is the most beautiful  thing in the universe.  He thinks Callie's stories are the most  entertaining things ever told.  Their relationship was truly earth shaking.   I liked the fact that some of this book didn't end happily ever after, but  most of it did.  This was one of the few romance books that I actually  sobbed in.  I cried for about an hour.<br />This was my first book by Jude  Deveraux, and my book pile is growing with her books.  Her writing style is  fresh and touching.  She makes you believe in things that you thought were  just hocus pocus.  _Rememberance_ has a special place in my heart now, and  I will always remember it.  The plot is unique, and I hope my soul mate  makes an apperance sometime in my life.  The only thing I didn't like about  it was the end was a little corny but the rest was fabulous.  So if you're  thinking about reading a Jude Deveraux book, read this.  If you remotely  like Jude Deveraux, read this.  If you like romance, read this.  You will  not be dissapointed.	2000-07-02
US	50424166	RMODMVOB4HGLX	0380751399	374104844	Taking the Fifth	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Stunning!	My aunt has been an avid reader of J. A. Jance ever since she met the woman.  She has read everything by Jance and has been begging me to read something by her.  So, when Christmas rolled around, guess what I found in  my stocking?  _Taking the Fifth_ by J. A. Jance.  I read a little of it,  and was immediatly intruiged.  For the next day, my parents could not pull  me away from the book.<br />_Taking the Fifth_ is the fourth book in the J. P.  Beaumont series.  Beaumont lives a detective life in Seattle.  Even though  when his rich girlfriend died a couple of years ago he inherited a fortune  and was set up for a comfortable life, Beau didn't stop working.  He loves  what he does, and he does it well.  So, one night by the Pike Place Market,  a man is found stabbed to death.  It is strange because they are not knife  wounds, and the police are stumped as to what caused them.  But, around the  crime scene, there is found a colbat blue, stiletto heeled shoe with blood  all over it.  Beau feels that if he can find the owner of the shoe, he will  find the murderer.  As Beau gets more involved with the murder, many  aspects are involved including drugs, AIDS, homosexuals, homeless people,  smuggling, deceit, and a sexy little blond who looks more and more like the  ring leader of the whole thing.  Can Beau keep his head and find out who is  commiting all these atrocities, or will time run out for our belevoed  detective?<br />You may be wondering why, if I read _Taking the Fifth_ around  Christmas, I'm still talking about it now.  Well, I havn't been able to get  it out of my head!  Jance wrote Beaumont so well that I felt like I got to  know him throughout the book.  He was startlingly three demensional, and I  often times felt like I was looking over his shoulder at some evidence.  I  cared about him so much that by the end of the book I was sad to let him  go.  The mystery was utterly genius and I was kept guessing until the end.   There were so many suspects with many motives that it was very fun to guess  who the culprit was.  Seattle is my favorite setting (okay, I'm a little  biased because I live here), and I was very pleased with Jance's research  of our city.  It all was acurate, and I love reading about my hometown.  I  could smell the familiar saltyness of Lake Union and I could picture the  familiar Fifth Avenue Theater (a major landmark in the book where half of  the action takes place) and it's intricate Chinese design.<br />_Taking the  Fifth_ is entertainment from cover to cover, and when you are finished you  will want to rush out and buy all of Jance's stories.  The plot is  believable and intense, you will find yourself holding your breath more  then once.  I was rooting for Beau out loud!  Jance's writing skills shine  throughout this book; she is a true artist that makes you feel for the  characters.  She is my favorite mystery writer.  So, if you love mystery,  buy _Taking the Fifth_ by J. A. Jance and you won't be dissapointed.	2000-06-25
US	50424166	R3E1TJYZDYAHUM	0671516922	885092842	Trust Me	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Delightful!	Like so many other readers, I started reading Jayne Ann Krentz under her other name, Amanda Quick.  I quickly devoured everything she had written and was extremly sad when I got to the end of her books.  I love  historicals, but I also wanted more of Krentz/Quick's writting so I  ventured once again into the world of contemporary romance.  _Trust Me_ was  the first book I read by Jayne Ann Krentz; I picked it out from my library  on a whim, but I don't think I could have picked a better book to start  with.<br />Sam Stark was just abandoned at the alter... for the second time.   Alone in his office, he is trying to fugure out what went wrong when in  comes Desdemona Wainwright, the caterer for his canceled wedding reception.   She demands to be payed for her work, even though she feels awful about  interupting Stark at such a horrible time in his life.  Feeling guilty, she  invites him to dinner with her and the rest of the Wainwright clan.  At  first, Stark is reluctant to except, but he is intriuged by Desdemona, so  he agrees.  The Wainwright family is a huge clan of mostly out of work  actors.  They don't like Stark at first... &quot;he's not a theater  person&quot;.  But, as he and Desdemona strike a deal, a passionate love  envelopes them, and Desdemona defies her family.  But, when a murderer and  a blackmailer enter the scene, will Dedemona and Stark be able to find true  happiness with each other?  Can a precious trust be kept alive or will it  be lost forever?<br />_Trust Me_ is a wonderful book by Jayne Ann Krentz.   Desdemona was a heroine I really got to care for.  She had a strong sense  of family, and although it was sometimes a blind sense, Desdemona was loyal  and loving.  Stark was a very interesting hero.  He is basically a nerd  with a body that is too die for.  I got the feeling he was supposed to be a  handsom Bill Gates.  One moment you want to jump into the book and give him  a hug, and the next you want to throw the book against the wall inhope of  bashing some sense into his head.  At times he was very loveable and then  thoroughly exasperating.  The Wainwright family was delightful!  They are  definitly odd balls, but you love all of them.  At times, they are very  protective of Desdemona, and at other times they let her run wild.  I loved  reading about their side plots, and I think Jayne should wright about their  plights sometime in the future.  I could really conect with the sense of  family, and I appreciated it.<br />Being a Seattle-ite, I loved the setting of  this book.  It was great to hear of a familiar place and to have an actual  picture in my mind of what that place really looks like.  My only problem  with _Trust Me_ was that the mystery was a little weak.  In all of Amanda  Quick's books, the mystery keeps you guessing until the end, but with this  book, I had it figured out befor Desdemona and Stark did.  But, it is a  wonderful romance, and I recomend it to Amanda Quick and Jayne Ann Krentz  fans alike.  Belive me (I would usually say &quot;trust me&quot;, but that  would be a little too corny), you have to read this wonderful book.  It is  full of snappy dialogue, quirky characters, and other distinct trademarks  that make up a Krentz origional.	2000-06-23
US	50424166	R3K4MEC5I185L8	0553285947	694412513	Surrender	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Great Change From The Normal Quick!	That's all that I can think of when _Surrender_ comes to mind.  A lot of previous reviewers are complaining that Lucas is too harsh of a hero and that no love is involved in his relationship with Victoria.  I would like  to strongly disagree.  First of all, yes he did go after Victoria for her  money... but that was before he met her and got to know her.  Isn't that  how most relationships start?  Someone thinks something of their partner,  but as they meet them and get to know them, their opinions change.  At  least, that has been my experience.  Lucas was a very complex character.   He was calus at first, but as you peel away his layers, the true man is  shown, and it is a very caring, very loving man.  I loved him because he  was a change from the normal Quick hero.  They are usually immediatly  loving and let the heroine do whatever they want.  Don't get me wrong, that  works for a book, but Ms. Quick went out on a limb to have Lucas for her  hero.  He is more true to the times this book was written in.  He doesn't  let Victoria do whatever she wants, but he does let her be herself and he  doesn't marry her for her money.  Victoria was a lovely heroine... I found  myself wishing I were her many times (even when Lucas was acting like the  big bad wolf).  She was spunky but down to earth at the same time.  The  added element of the paranormal was great spice added to the book, and I  enjoyed hearing older beliefs about it.  Mystery is Quick's strongest suit,  and it is applied perfectly to _Surrender_.  You are kept guessing at who  the bad apple is while watching the relationship between Lucas and Victoria  blossom.  All in all, _Surrender_ is a wonderful book.  It is a nice change  from the normal romance.	2000-06-22
US	50424166	R2IYCNEANAO3GA	0440222079	118071953	A Year and a Day (Medieval DeWarenne Trilogy)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Rich Tapestry Of History With Romance Woven In!	I can't say enough good things about this book.  _A Year And A Day_ is the first book I read by Virginia Henley, and it won't be my last.  There were so many good things in it.  Let me just say that if you do not want a book  that is dripping with history, you may want to stay away from _A Year And A  Day_.  The book is filled with historical events, and although some of the  phrases may not be totally accurate (i. e. helluva woman), it is still a  book that is full of research about Edward Plantengenet's reign over  England and Robert Bruce's rise to the throne of Scotland.  Some people may  not like _A Year And A Day_ because a lot of the detail of what was  happening in history consumes the story.  Anyway, I degress...<br />_A Year  And A Day_ is the story of an English warlord who storms Dumfries castle.   Lusting for an heir he has yet to produce, Lynx's thoughts are consumed  with babies.  When the steward of Dumfries Castle, Jock Leslie, suggests a  handfasting (a Scottish tradition where a man and a woman live together and  act as man and wife for a year and a day.  Any child that comes from the  union is legitimate even if the two people do not end up married, which  most do) to his youngest daughter Jane, it seems an answer to Lynx's  prayers.  The Leslie family seems to have amazing success with the child  bearing buisness.  Jane is a very timid girl, and is very wary of all men.   She is furius with her father for selling her to this handsom lynx.  But,  as seeds are sewn, Jane becomes pregnant.  And a love blossoms between this  unlikely couple.  But, trouble is brewing in Scotland.  Will this newfound  love outlast a year and a day?<br />Lynx was a hero you would feel compelled  to take a bullet for.  He is tall, handsom, and very concerned for the  welfare of his lady.  When he is hurt, you hurt too.  Not that you are  jealous of Jane for having him... I found myself rooting for the pair.   Jane was a romanctic heroine I have never encountered before.At the  begining of the book, she was very timid and meek.  Her fear of men is  overwhelming, and I found myself wondering why on earth Virginia Henley had  this girl for her heroine.  I always thought that the heroines would have  the opening scene of their book start off where they were shooting a gun or  weilding a knife.  That is not the case with Jane.  If you are looking for  that kind of book, stay away from this one.  Jane is very shy, but she  overcomes it through the book.  Infact, the change is enormous.  By the end  of the book, Jane has gone through an amazing change.  Because of her  handfasting to Lynx, she fears no one, and is more herself.  While living  with her family, she would give in, but as she changes, Jane bends to no  one, least of all Lynx.  I was very happy with the secondary characters and  plots.  They were so much a part of this book, that I'd say the book is not  just about Jane and Lynx.  Jory and Robert's torrid affair kept things  lively, and Taffy's love for Jane added sweetness.  I really hated Alicia  and Fitz-Warren; they were written extremly well.  Lincoln Robert, the  little baby, was perfect!  Children are a great element to add to a  romance, and it is one thing I really appreciat, even in the worst of  books.  So, if you liked Braveheart, read _A Year And A Day_.  If you like  romances, read _A Year And A Day_.  Heck, if you like books, read _A Year  And A Day_.  You'll see it is one &quot;helluva&quot; book!	2000-06-20
US	50424166	R6ZA823EOB2OM	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	18	20	N	N	What If You Could Have A Second Chance At Life?	Isn't that what we all want?  A chance to go back and change something or decide not to make a choice that we regret.  In Diana Gabaldon's _Outlander_ the heroine gets that second chance.  Claire Randall is a  combat nurse reunited with her husband.  They are having a second honeymoon  in Scotland when Claire is transported back in time by forces she does not  understand.  In 1743, scotland is torn by war, and she has trouble  believing what is happening to her.  Then she is forced to marry the  breathtaking &lt;sigh&gt; Jamie Fraser.  He introduces her to a love so  absolute that it can withstand torture, war, and hate.  But will these star  crossed lovers be able to defy the laws of time?<br />That question and many  more are rasied in _Outlander_, and I think Diana Gabaldon answers them  perfectly.  When I first saw _Outlander_, I stayed away from it for a  number of reasons.  1)  Too long.  It has been my experience that long  books often get boring after the first few hundred pages.  2)  It was  written in first person.  I hate first person and havn't read a book  written in that style for years.  3)  The book is first in a series.   Often, books that are in series are too drawn out and don't feel very  complete.  They just try to set the stage for the next book.  So, for all  of my wariness of this book, I almost didn't read it.  Don't let that  mistake happen to you!  First of all, it is long only because it is such an  epic story.  It is not boring or slow!  Secondly, because _Outlander_ is  written in first person, you feel more connected to Claire.  I was laughing  and crying right along with her.  Thirdly, I'm so glad it is a series.   When you get to the end of _Outlander_, if you are not begging for more, I  will seriously question if you read every word of this novel.<br />Claire was  a most wonderful heroine.  It was lovely to see historical Scotland from a  more modern point of veiw.  When her second chance comes, she grasps it  with two hands and dosen't let go.  It is fabulous to see that kind of  strength in a heroine.  Jamie was a nice change from the normal romance  hero (by the way, it IS a romantic fiction book.  That's probably why it  was in the romance department of the book store.  Just in case you were  wondering. ).  It seems like our society encourages relationships with  older men and scornes ones with younger men.  It's nice to see that women  can have absolute love with someone younger.  I was delighted that Jamie  was a virgin on his wedding night.  Finally, a man who is willing to put a  little effort into keeping himself pure!  Imagine how special you would  feel if someone worked so hard to save himself for you.<br />So, to sum up  _Outlander_ in less then a million words, which is what you would need to  do it justice, amazing, breathtaking, passionate, and stunning.  I don't  think I will ever read a book that has this much imagination and, for lack  of a better word, goodness in it.  So stop wasting your time reading my  review... buy the book and discover someone else's second chance for  yourself.  Good luck on functioning a normal life while reading it.  I know  I sure had a hard time with that :)!	2000-06-14
US	50424166	R2A8DFHB7W7UMT	1560026758	323481449	Portrait of a Divorce Nineteen Nineties Style	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heartbreaking And Raw	I found _Portrait of a Divorce_ to be a book of poems that show the hurt and pain caused by divorce.  Lee Falco writes about the saddness of ending his other marriages and about the pain he felt when his late wife asked him  for a divorce.  In _Portrait of a Divorce_ there is a peek at the pain  inside if him, and raw emotion is displayed.  Many times I found myself  crying because of what was told.  I know Lee, and he is like a father to  me.  I am best friends with his daughter, and we often discuss this book  and how her dad feels about it.  Anyway, this book made me realize the pain  and damage a divorce causes, and because of it, I am more wary of  relationships.  Lee shows promise as a writer, and I hope that he shows  interest in writing about the happier aspects of his life (and there are a  great many), soon.  So if you would like poems that are written from the  heart, I suggest, _Portrait of a Divorce_.	2000-06-07
US	50424166	R1HHMJX3Q3ZDKK	0671032976	869998580	Whitney, My Love	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Wonderful!	Let me start of by saying, IF YOU DON'T WANT A REALISTIC VEIW OF A RELATIONSHIP IN THE EIGHTEEN HUNDREDS, STAY AWAY FROM THIS BOOK!  But, if you want a realistic view of real people going through real struggles, but  having a real, true and perfect love, then this book is for you.  Let me  also say, YES, THERE IS ONE WHIPPING SCENE AND ONE RAPE SCENE IN HERE.   But, let me also say that those are only one scene, it never happened  again, and women often had it far worse in the eighteen hundreds.  Okay,  enough said out front.  If realistic fiction turns you off, you can be done  and gone by now.  I really enjoyed *Whitney, My Love*.  Infact, I think it  is my favorite of Ms. McNaught's.  This book really shows her writing style  and imagination, and it is easy to see why so many people love her work.  I  adored Whitney.  She was perfectly writen into the story, and most of the  time, I felt that Clayton was putting his arms around me too.  There were  many times when I wished I could travel in time to take her place and  experience for myself what was happening.  That is what makes a good  romance, when you wishing you were in the characters' shoes.  Clayton  knocked the breath right out of me!  I could litterally see his face  painted onto the pages instead of the words.  Through out reading this, I  felt like I was watching romance movie, complete with stunning  cinamatography, heart break and betrayal.  Romance is not a cake walk---  you have to work hard to keep it alive, and that's what Whitney and Clayton  did.  This is the first romance novel that I have started sobbing in.  And,  unless you heart is made of stone, you'll probably cry too.  So let me say  one more thing, this is one of my favorite romances of all time.  You will  not be sorry if you read it.	2000-06-05
US	50424166	R24Y79QWA8PVO	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Didn't Leave Me With Garwood Satisfaction...	The feeling I get when I put down a Garwood book is usually a tingling sensation and I always want another chapter to read more about the characters.  I am mad that it's over and amazed at the story at the same  time.  At the end of all Garwoods (_Prince Charming_ and _The Gift_ are my  favs) I want to demand more.  But, with _The Prize_, I was left with a  mixed up feeling.  Was it really what I was anticipating?  Did I read it  with too high of expectaions?  If penned by any other author, it would have  been great, but there was no Garwood personality to it.  Judith McNaught  and Julie Garwood are authors that I expect great things from, so when I am  left with a book like _The Prize_ to satisfy my hunger for a good romance,  I wonder if the same author wrote it.  First off, the begining was a little  slow.  I wanted action right away, a grabing opening line that pulls you by  the collar of your shirt into the plot.  _The Prize_ just didn't do that.   But enough critiscim.  I did give the book four stars, and I have very good  reasons.  1)  The characters were, as always, fabulous.  Nicola and Royce  were above average as characters, and I did feel for them.  2)  Baby Ulric.   I love to see children in romance novels.  They add character and spice to  the plot while keeping it grounded.  They make the books seem very real,  and I apriciat it being more like real life and not a fairy tale.  3)  The  historical setting.  It is definatly one of Ms. Garwood's strongest suits,  and I always enjoy that.  I am very curious to see if her venture into  contemporary romance with _Heartbreaker_ meets with the splendor of her  historicals.<br />So, _The Prize_ is generaly a great romance novel, but it's  not the best Garwood I've read.  If you want a good one, read _Prince  Charming_, _Ransom_, _The Prize_, or _Lion's Lady_.  Then I think you'll  know what I mean.	2000-06-02
US	50424166	R21BAGC2A6Q8O2	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Left a funny taste in my mouth...	And I was rather dissapointed by Judith McNaught's latest offering.  What happened to the author we used to know and love?  The one who penned such classics as _Whitney, My Love_, _Almost Heaven_, _Until You_, and  _Paradise_?  The whole book seemed rushed and had a &quot;hurry,  hurry&quot; attitude about it.  It seemed as though they were all rushing  to some fabulous climax, but everything falls flat with a big fat splat.   Sloan and Noah's relationship never really left the ground, and I never saw  more pass between them then some lust.  There was no true love, and I was  left wondering if Ms. McNaught had some past experience like this, and  _Night Whispers_ is a bitter diatribe.  But, reading this, you're probably  wondering why I still gave the book four stars.  I did that because it is  still a decent book, and I found some aspects of it delightful.  For one,  the rest of the Maitland family is a hoot.  Courtney with her own sense of  style and Mr. Maitland and his attempts at flirting.  Also, the secondary  characters added spice to the plot and detracted from the somewhat  bittersweet romance between Noah and Sloan.  And, the only reason I have  such critisism for _Night Whispers_ is that Ms. McNaught has penned such  wonders in the past that I expect a tinsy bit more of her then of other  authors.  But, compared to some books that I can mention, _Night Whispers_  is by far the best.  So, if you're looking for a romance that is higher  then most and if you havn't read a McNaught before, you might try _Night  Whispers_.  But for devoted fans, I suggest you skip this read.	2000-06-01
US	50424166	R2BOCJWT0BMHMV	067102342X	509316777	A Girl Named Summer	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Nice Change From Julie's Norm	I am absolutley obsessed with Julie Garwood's books, and it did not phase he at all tht this book was aimed toward younger readers.  Infact, it just displayed Ms. Garwood's talent for writing.  She really knows how to write  any knid of book, and I am not at all dissapointed with this offering.  It  was actually nice for me to read a book that was directed at my own age.   My mom was telling me &quot;Finally, a book for your own age!&quot; (I'm  only thirteen).  There are many reasons why I loved this book.   1)  I  really identified with Summer.  She is really a normal teen, and it is nice  to read about people like yourself.  Unlike Julie's historical characters,  you know what Summer is going through because you have experienced it  firsthand in your own time. 2)  She really explained the joys of running  well.  I myself am a runner, and she really depicted it well. 3)  I was  glued to my seat from the first page on.  Like I have said before, I knew  what the characters were going through.<br />So, if you are a dedicated  Garwood fan, or a young adult, this is a great, quick read.	2000-05-27
US	50424166	R2QWGMEE3SFL9F	0553571907	642717169	Mischief	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not What Is Was Hoping For, But Still Was Great	I love Amanda Quick's books, but this one didn't seem to have the sparkle and shine of previous books.  To me, it didn't grab me by the collar and yank me into the plot.  It still enjoyed it, but I found some things wrong  with the plot. 1)  The mystery was all over the place.  It seemed like Ms.  Quick just spontaneously thought things up and decided to stick them in.   It was almost as if she didn't know who she wanted her bad guy to be until  the last couple pages and then added them in hurridly. 2)  The side  characters didn't make me feel for them.  I usually adore the side  characters and plots in Ms. Quick's books, but the other people in  *Mischief* didn't make me feel for them.  I wanted more of an explanation  for the relationship between Hugo and Patricia.  They kind of faded off at  the end, and I was left with some questions. 3)  I'm back to the mystery  again.  It reasolved too close to the end.  In other Quick books, there is  still some time with the characters even after they found out who the bad  guy was.  In *Mischief* there were only about ten pages left after the  murderer was discovered.<br />But there are a lot of reasons why I did like  it, and I felt that it really did deserve five stars. 1)  I could really  identify with Imogen.  I loved that she was often clumsy, as that is a  trait that I suffer from (don't we all?).  Her love of ancient things also  sped the plot along when there were parts that it might start to drag. 2)   Mathias was unusual and delightful.  He let Imogen do what she wanted to do  and didn't usual restrict her from being herself.  He also kept up her  illusion that he had weak nerves which was cute. 3)  Zamar.  I loved it!   It was nice to have a legend be the common ground that tied Imogen and  Mathias together.  I loved reading about it, and I hope Ms. Quick  incorperates it into her next books. *Mischeif* does have it's faults, but  hey, that's what keeps authors humble.  If they write fantastic peices all  the time (although *Mischeif* was pretty darn close to perfect) they don't  have any constructful comments to work off of.  All in all, *Mischeif* is a  great, light hearted love story that is highly recomended to any romance or  Amanda Quick fan.	2000-05-26
US	50424166	RF6B6IS245RSN	0553571591	112078493	Mystique (Bantam Books Historical Romance)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Refreshingly Different	Mystique- noun-  Mystical attitudes or beliefs associated with a particular person, thing, or idea. The definition of the title of this book according to Webter's Dictionary.  It tickles me that Ms. Quick chose such  an appropriate title for her book.  Let me tell you how it fits. 1)  First  of all there is the green crystal which the people of Scarcliffe believe to  have mystical powers over the land and also choses the rightful owner of  it.  There is quite a fascination with it by the characters and it is  really the underlying plot of the whole book. 2)  The legend of Hugh the  Relentless is very mystical with Alice and is what first makes her  interested in him.  He is very much a legend in his own time and it is very  interesting to read about him. 3)  Alcie becomes a legend also at  Scarcliffe and the people believe her to be a sort of angel.  She is kind  and good and extremly smart.  When there is a mystery or intrigue, she  can't resist but to invesitgate. 4)  The spellbinding book that is magic in  your hands.  When you start reading, you can't stop to see what happens  next.<br />I loved reading *Mystique*.  The time change was a lovely addition  and a nice change from the troubles of the ton that are often in historical  romances.  Alice truly was a wonderful heroine, and it was nice that she  didn't have to worry constantly about proving that she didn't care what the  ton thoght about her.  She could easily do what she loved to do... study  natural philosophy and study her mother's herbal book.  Hugh was definately  a great hero.  I love the way that all of Ms. Quicks characters are linked  together with some shared past, it really makes the reader have a clear  picture of why they are together.  The language was, as always, lovely. You  are pulled into the characters lives and feel like you're living it with  them. It seemed that Hugh was not just hugging Alice, he is hugging you  too.  When everyone looks at Alice when she first meets Hugh, your cheeks  almost burn with embaressment too.  The scenery was wonderfully depicted  and I want to go to England now.  All in all, this is a fabulous,  refreshing book, and if you love Amanda Quick or are just getting started,  this book is for you!	2000-05-21
US	50424166	RGCBGHP66DGIJ	0553569406	594856539	Mistress	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Wonderful Beyond Words!	I loved this book to bits!  With every Amanda Quick book I read, I get more and more amazed at her creativity, but Mistriss is the most creative book I think I have ever read.  If I could, I would have given it a million  stars.  Oddly enough, that line fits in perfectly with the  book...<br />Iphiginia Bright's aunt is getting blackmailed.  He knows a nasty  secret from Aunt Zoe's past and threaten's to kill her like he has done  with the missing Earl of Masters.  Iphiginia is determined to find out who  the blackmailer is, so she decides to play the part of Masters's mistriss  so that she can get to know people in Society.  Besides, Masters is  supposed to be dead.  But, the world stops spinning for Iphiginia when  Masters stepps into a glittering ballroom one night.  It turns out that he  was only staying in his country house.  He is intrigued and flattered by  Iphiginia's deception and agrees to go a long with her scheme.  Little does  Masters know that Iphiginia has been in love with him ever since she has  gathered information enough to play his mistriss.  And Masters is starting  to fall for Iphiginia and the part of mistriss is starting not to be a  game.  And, the blackmailer's threats hit closer to home.  Will Masters and  Iphiginia find out who it is before it's too late?<br />Marcus (Masters) is my  favorite hero of all time.  Of course that usually changes each month, but  I think I will love him for a very long time.  The rules that he lived by  were often infuriating, but that's what made him so lovable.  You can see  that he and Iphiginia are meant for each other and you want to go in to the  book and throw his rules into the fire so that he can realize it too.   Also, he said the most heartmelting things to Iphiginia.  When he told her,  &quot;You were born to walk in starlight,&quot; I almost died!  Goodness I  wish I had a guy like that!  Iphiginia was an extremly lovely character to  read about, and it was a wonderful experience to do so.  The fact that she  dressed in white all the time was really clever and a nice change from the  usual Quick herione dresses which are bright.  Although that is nice, I  really loved the change.  The name Lady Starlight really suited Iphiginia.   All of Iphiginia's moves in Society really played with the imagination and  it was very ingenius.  All in all, this book is spectacular and shines as  bright as the stars.	2000-05-20
US	50424166	R38L46P3BOBL3Y	0671011332	7794510	Almost Heaven	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Rules were made to be broken...	I came onto this sight to look at the reveiws for Almost Heaven.  I read the book a while ago and really loved it.  Then, I saw that some one named Kelly had already reviewed it.  Strange, I thought.  But the other Kelly  was not me!  I'm not review it twice!  Anyway, back to the book...<br />If  only Elizabeth Cameron had listned to the little rule, rules were made to  be broken, she may have had a less complicated life when she met Ian  Thornton.  They fall in love over a weekend at a country party, and Ian  proposes, not knowing Elizabeth's standing in Society (she's a countess)  and that she is laready bethrothed.  Her brother comes charging into the  scene, yells foul things at Ian and reveals the truth about Elizabeth.   Elizabeth is heartbroken as she watches sadness turn into hate in Ian's  eyes.  She knows she loves him, but dosen't have the courage to say it.   Her brother mysteriously dissaperes, and Elizabeth is ruined by the  scandal.  Two years later, Elizabeth and Ian meet again and Elizabeth  discovers she still loves Ian, and the same feelings come from him.  But as  a dark secret is revealed fron their pasts, will Elizabeth and Ian find  true happiness?<br />One reason I loved this book was that Ian was one of the  most romantic heroes I have ever read about.  I agree with a previous  reveiwer that he says some heart stopping and heart melting things.  You  love him so much, and wish for a man like him for your own someday.   Elizabeth was very naive at the begining, but transforms into a more  organic and caring person the second time around.  The book was written  very thoughtfully and lets you feel every emotion known to man.  I laughed,  I cried, and I totally fell in love with this book.  If you are a fan of  Judith's or if you are just getting started, this is definatly a book for  you.  This was my first JM, and I have read everything that I could of hers  since then.	2000-05-17
US	50424166	RN9LCNBSPL7S2	0515122491	427292200	The Maze (An FBI Thriller)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Left something to be disired in romance...	But it was a great thriller.  I loved Lacey, she was definately not your typical romance heroine which was nice because too often they are breathtakingly beautiful women who walk around and have men fall at their  feet.  Also, Lacey was extremly smart and was a good match for Dillon.   Some of their intellectual battles were very entertaining.  Although Lacey  was obsessed with her sister's death, she didn't let it crontrol her every  move.  Dillon was the perfect match for her.  They were very similar, and  that's what made it seem like they were being drawn together.  The mystery  and suspense seemed to be shoving the love story out though.  I wanted more  of a romance, but it turned out to be more of a thriller then anything  else.  The only reason that I didn't give this book five stars (it was  extremly good in the uniquness of storyline and the lines that moved you to  the end of your seat) was because the climax in the plot seemed to occure  towards the begining of the book rather then at the end.  But if you love  mystery, this is a pretty good book for you.  If you want a romance, you  may want to look elsewhere.	2000-05-13
US	50424166	R1ITJL3PPGLRSM	0399145060	945780570	The Edge (An FBI Thriller)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Very Dissapointing	This was the first book that I read by Catherine Coulter, and I am scolding myself for almost stopping with it.  I have read many of her books now and I can't help but wonder if she had another person write this.  The begining seems interesting, but it falls flat about the second chapter in.   Mac is in the hospital, almost too weak to feed himself, but then he just  sits up and leaves.  But it gets better.  In the rainforest, there are gun  shot wounds and no food and the sexually aroused Mac, but miraculously,  they endup at a Club Med.  Now this may have all been okay, but it was  written in first person from a man's point of veiw.  Where did this come  from?  The love story and plot seemed to be thrown in at the end.  The  mystery was lacking, and it wasn't very suspenseful.  If you want a good  book by Coulter, try the first three or any of her historical romances. ....	2000-05-13
US	50424166	R1ZBZZV672JSZU	0515118362	266787572	The Valentine Legacy (Legacy Trilogy, Bk 3)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Pirates, Treasure, And A Searing Love...	What more could you ask for?  *The Valentine Legacy* is a wonderful romance about the &quot;girl next door&quot; transforming into a lovely woman who finally catches the eye of the man she has loved for years.   James is obviously surprised and attracted when he meets Jesse again.   Also, he is jealous!  Every time she goes out in her new dresses, he can  hardly believe his eyes.  &quot;Trollop,&quot; is the name he uses mostly  to describe her, but you know it is just because he dosen't want anyone  else to feel like he feels about her.  If that isn't a blossoming love, I  don't know what is.  Also, the incidents leading up to Jesse's  transformation were hysterical.  It was heartwarming to see her try to save  James from Glenda.  The plot was interesting, and the secret of  Blcakbeard's diary added much intrigue.  One dissapointment is that you  expect more time to be devoted to the treasure.  All in all, it is an  extremly well written book with interesting word choice, excellent  organization, interesting side plots, and a wonderful love that turns the  book into the treasure that is being sought.	2000-05-13
US	50424166	R361QW4VZY50NF	0553565060	464931293	Deception	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Realistic and Wonderful	I first picked out *Deception* from my bookstore because it had the thickest spine, and I wanted to find the longest Amanda Quick book that I could.  Without even reading the back, I bought it.  A couple months later,  I found it, never read in my to be read pile.  But the first page pulled me  in, and I fastened my seatbelt for a wild ride.  Olympia and Jared were  obviously made for each other.  That is one predictable and charming thing  that is in every Quick book.  Olympia was rather like Beatrice from *With  This Ring*.  They were both interested in legends and studied them  religously.  Anyway, I really connected with Olympia, and I found myself  predicting her next moves.  The mystery of the Lightbourne Diary was  definatly the driving force of this book.  When little incedents occured, I  couldn't turn the page fast enough to find out &quot;who dun it&quot;.   Jared was the ultimate pirate, but I loved the fact that he was unsure of  himself around Olympia and the feelings that she had for him.  In too many  romance novels, the man is overly confident and assumes that the woman will  just melt in his arms.  The three young boys were nice spice added to the  recipe.  Olympia's maternal reactions to them were heartwarming, and the  boys fear of being sent away to another relative was heartbreaking.  They  made this book real and alive.  *Deception* is a book that is not just a  story about rich English spirits who meet and fall in love.  Instead, it  depicts a more common romance among two people who don't move in the  circles of the ton.  All in all, *Deception* is a wonderful read and gives  you the feel of what romance was like between two people who weren't loaded  in the eighteen hundreds.	2000-05-12
US	50424166	R1ZDQQM6YGVVCN	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I was glued to my seat from the first word on!	The prologue was one of the best parts of the book!  I loved it, and I don't think Ms. Garwood has ever written a more riveting begining (although the start to *Come the Spring* is pretty darn close).  You hear about Gillian's night adventure as she is seperated from her family and sister  and taken to her uncle.  The whole romp left me breathless, and I couldn't  turn the page fast enough!  Then we are taken to a scene where some old  faces, Brodick Ramsey from *The Secret*, are reitnroduced.  Then we whirl  back to Gillian where she is trying to save a little boy from certain  death.  It is thought that, by Baron Alford (the man who killed Gillian's  father, stole her home and was currently holding her captive), that the  little boy is Ramsey's kid brother (who is thought by Ramsey to have  drowned, when infact he was kidnapped).  But the boy is really Iain and  Judith's (also from *The Secret*) son.  When Gillian saves him, they must  face the rath of Alford.  When the tense meeting occurs, Alford orders  Gillian to find her long lost sister and ask her where Arianna's Treasure  is (this is the legend that started the whole thing).  Gillian knows it is  an impossible task, but Alford is holding her dear uncle captive and so she  must do as she is told.  In the middle of the night, Gillian and Alec (the  little boy) escape through one of the secret passeges.  He tells her that  she can take him to his guardian Brodick, and that Brodick will take him  home.  So the couple journey to the Highlands to meet Brodick.  Brodick and  Gillian start to fall in love, and it is discovered that Gillian's sister  may be hiding out with a family living with Ramsey's clan.  Romance and  mystery grace the pages of the book as Gillian rushes to find her sister  and the lost treasure in time.  But will her one true love be lost as well?   This book is so exciting that you read it into the night and stop only  because you have fallen asleep.  My parents couldn't get me to stop  reading.  I read while brushing my teeth, in school, even while walking  home!  Brodick and Gillian's love was well developed and your heart goes  out to both of them as they search for what everyone wants in life...  happiness, a home, and love.  The characters were well proportioned and  three dimensional.  They feel like family at the end of the book, and you  don't want to let them go.  The plot is unusual and unique and holds you  attention until the very end.  If you've read *The Secret*, *Ransom* is a  must read!	2000-05-10
US	50424166	REC89TVLZ2T89	0671870114	215596206	Saving Grace	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Not Your Typical Garwood, But Fabulous Beyond Words!	When I read my first Garwood, I fell completely in love and flew to my book store to buy every book of hers that was in stock.  I got to *Saving Grace* about halfway through my pile, and was rather shocked by the begining.  You hear of how preists had instructed their students in the  13th century and are shocked.  Being a girl myself, I could see why women  would feel awful about themselves.  <br />And then you get a veiwpoint swich  and we are taken to fourteen year old Johanna who is being told that her  husband is dead.  Poor dear, she can barely contain her joy as the news is  being told to her.  You later hear that he was a cruel man who beat  Johanna, blamed her for the lack of an heir, and flaunted his mistresses in  her face.  Then there is the local preist who beats the following facts  into Johanna's brain: you are a woman, women are slime, you will never  amount to anything, blah, blah, blah.  So this poor teen is scared out of  her mind, and amazingly happy to be free.  Knowing that something bad might  happen, she smartly files for a divorce, just in case.<br />Two years later,  the king demands that she must marry.  Although reveling in her  spinsterhood, Johanna has no choice.  The trusty brother comes to the  rescue and whisks Johanna off to the highlands where she is to marry his  friend, Gabriel.  Johanna is natuarally terified of marriage given her past  experiences and defies her strong new husband.<br />When Gabriel introduces  her to real passion, though, she is forced to admit to herself that he is  not the monster her first husband was and that she is falling in love with  him.  And she realizes she may trust him and that he will protect her.  The  fishyness behind Johanna's first husband's death starts to reveal itself,  and the precious new love is put to it's first test.  Will Johanna and  Gabriel survive?<br />One of the reasons I loved this book was that the  characters' actions were clearly described so there was no doubt about what  was going to happen.  Also, there was definatly a hard coating to Gabriel  and I think he is Ms. Garwood's BIGGEST male, but he was also very loving  and heartstopping.  Johanna was wonderful and truly had Gariel wrapped  around her little finger.  But their's was a rare love and it made the  pages sparkle like gold.  The topic of female degregation by the church was  obviously well researched by Ms. Garwood and it shows.  It is also so well  written into the book that I actually screamed at it becuase of the  unfairness of the issue.  I sincerely hope that Ms. Garwood writes a  continuation of this story, and I think it will go over extremely well with  her fans.	2000-05-09
US	50424166	R7B9EF83LLYKW	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Charming and Special	Like most people, I saw the preveiws to the movie and went, Oh M'Gosh!  I've got to read that book!  I love Ashley Judd and Natalie Portman so I raced to the book store and demanded a copy.  And I'm so glad I  did.<br />Novalee Nation is a pregnant seventeen- year old traveling with her  so called boyfriend to start a new life in California.  When she gets a  call to pay her water bill, her boyfriend reluctantly lets her off at a  Wal-Mart where he has the inspired idea to leave her there.  And so,  Novalee learns to live in the Wal-Mart and crosses her fingers that the  baby will not come until she has found a place to stay.  <br />While hiding  out, Novalee meets some of the eccentric townspeople and makes friends.   Then the baby comes... little Americus Nation.  <br />The rest of the book is  basically about Novalee discovering herself and proving her mettle.  She is  put to some tuff tests, but passes with flying colors.  At the end of the  book, I almost cried because I wanted to find out more about her quest for  herself.  This book truely owns my heart.<br />I believe that Ms. Letts is  extremely brave to venture out onto such a rocky topic for her book.  Teen  pregnancy could have drawn a lot of negative attention to her book, but it  didn't.  In fact, it brought more attention to the problem, and for that  many people are grateful.  <br />Also, the plot moves along at a clip pace.   Not so fast that your head turns from all the info, but it holds you  interest.  The side plots and struggles of the side characters really tops  it off (the characters are extremly three dimensional and feel like family  by the end of the book).<br />The only thing I found slightly annoying was the  continuation of Willy Jack's story.  You hate him for leaving Novalee, and  want to drop him.  But, Ms. Letts forces him back into the story, and by  the end, you grudgingly grow to love him too.<br />All in all, this was a  fabulous, although somewhat short, read.  I plan to buy an extra copy  because my friends are begging to read my origional copy and I can hardly  bare to part with it.  Trust me, you have to read this book.	2000-05-09
US	50424166	RR80Y2P2AQAC6	055329315X	4390139	Reckless	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This Book Is Worth Ten Stars	I absolutely loved this book.  *Reckless* is the story of two people who were meant for each other and are lucky enough to find their soul mate.  Pheobe is spunky and defies the rules.  Wylde is the perfect ancore for her, but is the man to take her on her grandest andventure.  The characters  were fabulously three demensional and the plot was unique and exciting.   The mystery was breathtaking and the side plots were detailed enough to  hold you attention but weren't so complicated that it was hard to keep up  with.  All in all, *Reckless* is my favorite book so far by Amanda Quick  and I suggest this book to anyone with a pulse.	2000-05-08
US	50424166	RD2E05SWO3WCF	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hard To Top This Kind Of Writing	The book starts out with Duncan being held captive in Baron Loudden's holding.  Men are tourtering him in the snow, but Duncan survives.  Loudden's sister, the beauty Madelyn, comes to his rescue and warms his  feet.  Duncan is touched by the selfless act that the sister of his enemy  bestowed upon him, but he takes her as his prisoner.  At Duncan's holding,  Madelyn becomes sick and Duncan nurses her back to health.  Secretly,  Madelyn is gald to be out of her evil brother's clutches.  And she is  falling deeply in love with the handsom man who is holding her  captive....<br />The characters were extremly real and they stirred you to  your core.  Madelyn was extremely selfless and quite cute.  Duncan stirs  you to your sole.  They were both three dimensional and the dialogue was  fabulous.  I thought that they were perfect for each other.  The plot is  fast paced and holds you attention until the very last page.  The scenery  is, as always, well described and vivid.  The thing I love about reading  Julie Garwood's books is that they are nice ways to escape from the real  world and get lost in your imagination.  That's what all of Julie's books  do.  You get to dream of the perfect place with wonderful people and a  fairy tale ending.  You will not be sorry if you read this book.	2000-05-05
US	50424166	R3VA2G6131KF8S	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Almost Better Then The Bride	I absoluetly loved this book.  Brenna was fresh and cute andConner steals your heart.  The character developmant was excellent.Ms. Garwood sure knows how to get your attention.  Brenna and Conner were perfectly written for each other and they definatly had a hot romance.  I loved that the men were awed by the fact that she ate so much.  Finally, a heroine who isn't afraid to pig out.  Scottland is my all time favorite setting, and Ms.  Garwood describes it beautifully.  Now I want to visit it for myself!  The plot is fast paced and the pages basically turn themselves.  Plus, the return of Alec and Jamie was perfect.  It was wonderful to hear about how they turned out.  If you've read any of Julie Garwood's books, this is definately for you.  Brenna's end description of her wedding is truly the icing on the cake.  Please, read this superb, fabulous classic from the magic pen of Julie Garwood.	2000-05-05
US	50424166	R7HD8IPXZESUT	0553285947	694412513	Surrender	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Hero Almost Ruins It	Let me just say that this is a fabulous book, and I loved it to the core.   But Lucas was an overbearing prig who wouldn't let Victoria do what she  wanted.  He saught her out first just to get her fortune and then decides  that he wants to bed her.  Victoria is a wonderfully independent woman who  falls for his charms.  She falls madly in love with him, but he won't give  her the love she craves back.  At least he likes her when they're married,  but it was a little strange that he liked her because of her spunk, and  actually encoraged it in their courtship, but as soon as the vows are  exchanged, he cracks the whip.  No midnight outings, no free use of her own  money, etc.... But, he does grow to love her in the end, and despite  myself, I grow to love him.  It would have been nice if he had returned the  affection earlier, but he came around.  I love any Quick book and this is  just as well writen as the reast of them.  It's just that, well, the hero  almost ruins it.	2000-05-04
US	50424166	R3FWEMOAYUFC9N	0553574094	65924712	With This Ring (Vanza)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not up to snuff	I thought it was fabulous that Amanda Quick decided to break her one word title streak and venture out of that comfort zone.  But her journey into a new style of writing was rather dissapointing for me.  The book starts out  with Beatrice Poole seaking out Leo drake to get him to help her uncover  her uncle's mysterious murder and to come up with the Forbidden Rings of  Apphordite.  Leo is bothered by the untimely interuption in his life but is  intruiged by Beatrice and agrees to help her.  As the plot thickens,  Beatrice and Leo are pulled into a web of deceit and trickery, and friends  become foes.  But now it seems that Leo and Beatrice's fate will fallow  that of her murdered uncle.  The thing that bothered me about this book was  that there was to much mystery and too little romance.  I have come to  expect great things from Ms. Krentz in the way of romance, and this book  left me wanting more.  There was no real heat between Leo and Beatrice.  You just are left with ends that don't meet.  also, you don't really care  if Beatrice and Leo get together.  But there are many qualities that save  the book.  Leo and Beatrice are exceptionally three dimensional and the  mystery is fairly interesting.  And, as always, the setting is stunning and  well described.  I could see London as I was reading, and that is always a  sign of a well written book.  And it is well written, just the romance was  lacking.  If you know Amanda Quick, you should read this book, but I  wouldn't buy just because there are better books out there.	2000-05-03
US	50424166	R3EQP5UWS02I8V	006447089X	269868178	Saturnalia	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Amazingly Boring	We had to read this book in class, and every one was strugglingto stay awake.  I guess you might find this interesting if you had thechance to read it on your own time, but when it is drawn out for twomonths, it is the most boring thing in the world.  It was confusing when the characters veiwpoints swiched, so much that it was hard to know who was narrating the story.  Don't read this unless you have to.	2000-04-30
US	50424166	R3ENLXR6O5UZ1Z	067102177X	318818313	The Clayborne Brides: One Pink Rose / One White Rose / One Red Rose (3 Books in 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Following For &quot;For The Roses&quot;	As soon as I read For The Roses, I wanted to read these novellas.  They were masterpeices in their own ways, and I loved them all.  Travis and Emily's story was simple but sweet.  It seemed Ms. Garwood was just getting  her juices flowing with this one.      In Douglass and Isabell's story, she  seems to pick up speed.  The characters become more developed and they plot  more intense.      Adam and Geneveive's story top it off.  They are what  save the novellas from becoming washed up.  The characters are, again, more  developed and three dimensional.  The story is also more intruiging.       But, they are all extremely well written, and I think much more praise then  they have gotten.  As usual, the romances are unique and touching.  Ms.  Garwood makes a genuine attempt to help you get to know the brothers  better.  In short, if you've read For The Roses, these novellas are for  you.	2000-04-29
US	50424166	R5Z58X7NUSWIK	0671003348	937988197	Come the Spring (Clayborne Brothers)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Wonderful End To The Claybournes	I love For The Roses.  I cherish The Claybourne Brides.  I absolutely adore Come The Spring!  Cole was always by favorite Claybourne, and I am glad that he got a whole book dedicated to him (although the other brothers  would have been fabulous in their own books also).  The three women who  were thought to be witnesses were each unique, and it is thoroughly  puzzling as to who the real witness is and who the bad apple is.  And, we  finally get to meet Daniel Ryan, the man haunting the Claubournes ever  since the Bride Trilogy.  He was certinly a match for Cole.  The characters  were three dimensional, so much so that it seemed like you were watching a  movie rather then reading a book.  Julie Garwood is wonderful at writing  suspense, and I hope she goes back to it sometime in the future.  As  always, the romance was dazzeling.  If you've read any of the books in the  series, you'll miss out on a real treat if you don't read this one.	2000-04-29
US	50424166	R1W9EUFOJMEHZW	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Secret Was Wonderful	I loved this book!  The characters were totally three dimensional, and the plot was fast enough to keep you attention, but not so fast that you couldn't keep up with it.  I'll admit that the begining was a little slow, but as you get into it, you know why.  I loved the fact that Judith and  Iain weren't forced to be together because of an arranged marriage or  something, but they loved each other just from being around one another.   It was great, and Ransome is a wonderful follow up.	2000-04-26
US	50424166	R2M7UUFPMZBFJ6	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My Fav Out Of The Four	how can you not love this book?  It's true that Sara can be a little complanish, but not all females of the 1800's were heroes of their time.  In fact most of them weren't.  I thought she was delightfully charming, and  her incidents with the parisols were hysterical.  I felt so sorry for her  &quot;crew&quot; when she made stew for them.  Nathan was the classic  Garwood male, tale and silent, but very loving.  I laughed out loud when  Sara turned his cussing against him.  And it was nice to have the scenery  change, from England, to the ship, to the tropical island of Sara's aunt,  this story takes a wonderful trip from place to fabulous place.  Take my  advice and buy this book.	2000-04-25
US	50424166	R1IOSJWFNSF0FI	067173783X	366170390	The Lion's Lady	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Wonderful &quot;Bon Voyage!&quot; To The Quintet	I loved this book!  Christina was one of Julie Garwood's best heroines (and I've read all of their stories).  I loved her Native American upbringing, and the little bits of her mother's diary that you read just spur you on to read more just so you can see what happens to Christina'a  mother!  And, the underlying plot of a mysterious father was fabulous and  added to the fantastic story line.  Do yourself a favor and read this book!	2000-04-25
US	50424166	R32RG82B7C00OC	0671744208	407222975	Castles	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not her best work	I read this book first out of the quintet, and I wasn't all that encoraged by it.  But I heard tons of good things about Lion's Lady Guardin Angel and The Gift, so I decided to give it a go.  I love the other ones, and now looking back on it, I might enjoy Castles more.  I thought Colin was just  too stubborn in refusing to marry Alessandra, and she seemed very aloof and  not all that spunky at first.  of course, as the book progresses, her  mettle starts to show, but i kind of thought of her as a flake at the  begining, and that thought stayed (unfortunatly) with me through out the  book.  But I am not sorry I read it, and Julie Garwood is the best.	2000-04-25
US	50424166	R2ZB0FYHJANC1Y	0671670069	631599251	Guardian Angel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good Follow Up To Lion's Lady----- Keeps You Wanting More	I loved Jade, and the fact that she was hesitant to love Cain.  I adored the fact that Cain always told Jade he loved her, and said it to her before she said it to him (it seems that in all of JG's books that the heorine always says 'I love you' first.  It was fabulous to see it the other way  around).  Jade was a wonderful heoroine because she never let any man boss  her around and did what only she wanted.  You have to read the quintet, it  is wonderful.	2000-04-25
US	50424166	R1XE4NYXZ2DK7V	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Great Book.  One of my favorites	I love all of JG's books, and this was definately one of her best.  Jamie was wonderful, I loved her as soon as she was introduced.  Alec was one of those all time heroes that stay in your mind forever.  Wouldn't it be nice  if we all had heroes like that?  The plot was spectacular, and the twist at  the end was amazing, i didn't see it coming!  Read this wonderful love  story, it will be a &quot;keeper&quot; on your book shelf forever.	2000-04-20
US	50424166	R2V2OQ9XHZED78	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great follow up to 'Whitney'	I bought this book and Whitney at the same time, and I'm so glad that I did.  As soon as I was finished with the first book I grabbed the second one.  I loved each book about the same (although I loved 'Whitney, My Love'  just a tinsy bit more).  Judith McNaught writes the absolute best books.   The character developmant in this book was above and beyond and I loved the  fact that she gave us a little insight as to what Sheridan's childhood was  like.  If you kinda sorta like Judith's other books, you'll fall in love  with Until You. (Although I have to wonder about the Westmorland brothers'  tendency to mistrust their loved fiancees and to ... ahem... rape them)	2000-03-19
US	50424166	RU22L3RP2TMCI	0440225922	320776985	The Poyson Garden. An Elizabeth I Mystery	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not the best	I picked up this book clearly by chance.  I saw the cover and thought it looked interesting, and I love historical fiction.  I read the reviews and thought it would be a mystery/romance.  It was an okay mystery but there  was zitlch romance.  And maybe you have to know alot about Elizabeth's life  to figure out who the poisoner was because I totally had no clue until the  author actually spelled it out for me.  I think I will read the next book  just to see what happens, but I won't by it unless there is a complete turn  around in the writing style.	2000-03-15
US	50424166	R2T0I05N86WRAG	0553570854	806461701	Till Death Do Us Part	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One Of The Best	This was the first book that I read by Lurlene McDaniel, and I picked it up totally by chance.  But I am so glad I did.  If you're reading this review right now, you probably know a little something about Lurlene McDaniel.  First of all, her books are tearjerkers, there's no way around  it.  But they are extremly well written and make you feel almost every  emotion known to man.  And they are touching.  So reader, you know Ms.  McDaniel, and my advice to you is read this book.  You'll laugh, you'll  cry, and you fall completely in love.<br />If you liked this book, try Don't  Die My Love, Saving Jessica, The Girl Death Left Behind, all the One Last  Wish books and The Legacy: Making Wishes Come True- all by Lurlene  McDaniel<br />If you're a romantic teen like me, I suggest all of Julie  Garwood's books Whitney, My Love; Paradise; Until You; Almost Heaven;  Perfect by Judith McNaught The Heiress by Jude Devoraux All of Amanda  Quick's (AKA Jane Ayne Krentz) books<br />Happy Readings :)	2000-03-03
US	50424166	R2BLULEHCYIY5M	0671044265	378094364	Prince Charming	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great Book, Bad Audio	I've read this book before, many times in fact, and I absolutlly adore it.  I love all of Julie Garwood's books, and this is one of my favorites.  She is my favorite writter, and all her books are fantastic. So I thought it  would be nice to listen to the tape while I worked out or wanted to listen  to something without having the TV on.  One word sums the audio up, awful.  The person who read the book did a nice job of the voices and all, but I  was extremlly dissapointed at how many details the editors took out.  If  you think that you want to listen to this tape, DO NOT DO NOT DO NOT.  The  book is a million times better.  If you absolutly have to listen to the  book on tape, I suggest you try to find an unabriged copy.<br />If you liked  the book, I would recomend all of Ms. Garwoods books, Whitney, My Love by  Judith McNaught, and anything by Amanda Quick.<br />Let me stress again that  the book is ten million times better then the audio.<br />Happy Readings :)	2000-02-22
US	50424166	RVKC6WZZQ2E6G	0671795554	706034749	Remember When (The Foster Saga)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	It was okay but.................	...I kept waiting for the story line to pick up speed.  I had just read Paradise before rhis book, and I totally loved it.  I got this book expecting great things and got virtually squat.  I wanted a romantic page turner, and got somthing else.  There wasn't much chemistry between Diana  and Cole, and it took way too long for them to grow up and get together.  I  could hardly believe it was a #1 bestseller.  If you want a good book, read  Whitney, My Love or Paradise.  They're much better.	2000-02-12
US	50424166	R248F0QJS3TD3M	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the BEST books I have ever read!	This was the first book that I read by Judith McNaught, and I fell in love with it.  At some times I was screaming with frustration about the way that Meredith and Matt hated each other for something that neither of them did.   It was such a beautiful story, and so well written.  For a while I was  reading alot of Julie Garwood books, and I was so hooked that I didn't want  to start reading books by another author.  But I was at the library and  checked this out, and I loved it.  If you like romance novels, this book is  for you!	1999-12-23
