US	50432075	R3C8LFYS32V7RO	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Relatively Accurate but Simplified History	Cahill writes in an extremely compelling manner.  I enjoy his prose greatly.  His works are quick and entertaining reads.  That said, he often goes overboard on his books and his theses, and simplifies complex history.  He did this with The Gifts of the Jews and he does it here with How the Irish Saved Civilization.    Cahill is right that certain ancient and medieval civilizations hold a prominent place in the development and advancement of ideas and thought systems that govern much of the modern world.  The Irish undoubtedly are one of them.  Irish Christianity preserved a lot of classical learning of the Greeks and early Christian texts.  They re-introduced these ideas to continental Europe and were key in the spread of monasticism.  However, to claim that the Irish actually \\"saved\\" civilization is going a little too far.  Saving what Cahill calls \\"civilization\\" was a joint effort that included the Irish, the Anglo-Saxons, the Franks, the Normans, the Byzantines, and the Arab Muslims, Turks, and Persians.  In fact, during the Carolingian Renaissance undertaken by Charlemagne in the early 9th century, there was a flowering of Christian and classical learning undertaken by scholars brought from both Ireland and Anglo-Saxon England.  The primary character in this was Alcuin, an Anglo-Saxon monk.  Alcuin was primarily responsible for establishing schools and re-introducing classic philosophy, literacy, and rhetoric.  Classical texts were preserved in England as well as Ireland.  Ireland did play a prominent role, shared by the Anglo-Saxons.  And the Franks were the ones who ultimately established the tradition of European Christianity and its strong basis in society and culture.    The Roman civilization did not truly fall until the mid-15th century.  People forget very easily that it was only the western Empire that fell in the 5th century, the east continued for another thousand years under the Byzantine Empire.  The Byzantines did not destroy or forget classical learning.  Byzantine Christianity was characterized by philosophical speculation in continuance of the ancient Greek manner.  The emperor Justinian also codified Roman civil law, which became the basis for the continental legal structure.  When the Arab Muslims began rising and conquering the Byzantine Empire, much of that classical learning in philosophy, medicine, and mathematics was not only preserved but expanded upon by the Muslims.  The Muslims excelled in fields such as trigonometry, algebra (an Arabic word), medicine and anatomy.  And the Muslims preserved at least one tradition that all of Europe, including the Irish had lost:  Aristotelian philosophy.  Platonism and neo-Platonism was the primary philosophical bent among medieval Christendom, it wasn't until the Muslims reintroduced Aristotle to Europe, at their world-class university in Cordoba, Spain that a new era began that led to the empirical, scientific exploration of the world preceding and carried on by the Italian Renaissance.  We also have a Muslim woman to thank for the discovery of vaccination, brought back to Europe by Lady Montagu.      As another review pointed out, \\"civilization\\" means more than the Christian texts.  It is politics, culture, economics, science, philosophy, language, etc.  The Irish had little to do with many of these things, for which we have the Anglo-Saxons, Norman English, the French, the Italian, the Byzantine, the Muslims, among others to thank for.  Oh, and I forgot to mention the Scots.  History is a very complicated affair; beware of simplified conclusions.  The Irish DID play a role in the development of the medieval and modern worlds, however, civilization would have turned out just fine without them.	2004-09-15
US	50432075	R1HEF8RGZXEJDD	0310241448	911984495	The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God	Books	2	48	85	N	N	The Intellectual Eulogy of American Fundamentalism?	Just when you thought it couldn't go any further, Lee Strobel tops the list of poorly researched and atrociously reasoned treatises of misinformation.  Has Strobel finally tolled the intellectual death of American fundamentalism?  He is the number one apologist in modern fundamentalism spreading blatant untruth to a gullible public.  I can tell you, this work will not convince anyone with a decent scientific understanding of the origins of the universe and the development of biological life on earth.  Its purpose is to affirm those who are already in agreement with him on the subject; he absolutely cannot believe this will convince educated people to the veracity of his claims.  Does he realize what he is doing?  Is he blatantly deceiving in order to make money off the public?      Is it true that God values faith and cares nothing for honesty?  I refuse to believe that and must point out that Strobel is wrong.  Why does Strobel only interview those who already agree with him, his common practice?  There are thousands of very respected evolutionary biologists who can easily provide the evidence he thinks is missing.  Strobel interviews none.  Why?  Because they disagree with him.  This is honest, objective journalism?  Sadly, folks, this actually is the state of journalism today, as can be demonstrated from recent scandals involving journalists in the print media.    Evolution is a fact and it simply is no longer a theory that has any serious detractors in the professional field any more than Einstein's General Theory of Relativity does.  Evolution happens.  We have witnessed it.  There is no secret conspiracy among the scientific community.  The data for its support is overwhelming; the evidence intersects a broad range of fields:  the fossil record as it appears in chronological geological strata, molecular genetics, observed speciation events, the phylogenetic tree of life, anatomical vestiges and atavisms, and modern medicine to name a few.  If one is so inclined to learn about this evidence in detail, a great place to start is [...]  An example of just one powerful line of evidence for evolution is the detailed, chronological fossil evidence for the evolution of whales and dolphins from land dwelling mammals; you can find it at that site.  Strobel knows nothing about it.    Strobel brings out arguments that have been defeated for quite some time.  Michael Behe's irreducible complexity has been proven false.  It has been demonstrated that Behe's mousetrap analogy as applied to the cell is wrong, and he has not responded successfully.  Remove one piece of his mousetrap, it malfunctions, it is useless; the same thing for the cell, Behe claims.  What he fails to account for is exactly what evolution has demonstrated.  Genes have different functions in cells at different times in biological history.  Behe does not explore the detailed history of that functioning and is unable to recognize that certain genetic functions once present in the cell have been lost over time because they have been improved upon via other genetic processes.  In other words, before you take away a part of the mousetrap, you have to add something that has been lost since its last improvement.  The information needed is right there in the cell, but it has been rendered inactive by subsequent mutations.  These are easily determinable by molecular comparison with other types of cells and organisms.  It is demonstrable science, not conjecture; it has been proven.  Furthermore, Behe ignores the central, obvious refutation of his irreducible complexity:  the cell IS reducibly complex, in fact the DNA strand contains within itself the entire genetic coding information necessary for all the activities of a cell long before it constructs the very cell it resides in.  The activities in the cell don't just happen in some mysterious, irreducibly complex manner:  all constituent matter is constructed, and subsequently directed by the strands of DNA within the nucleus.      One final \\"secret\\" about Behe.  He is an evolutionist.  He has admitted as much.  He fully accepts the vast majority of the theory of evolution including common ancestry, descent with genetic modification (otherwise called evolution) and natural selection.  In fact, he agrees that humans have evolved from hominids, that we share a recent common ancestor with the chimpanzee, and all living species are descended from a common ancestor.  Behe just \\"believes\\" that the complexity of the cell requires an initial designer to get evolution going.  Don't take my word for it, Behe is on record with this.  Turns out he doesn't provide much comfort to the creationist view after all.  Behe's arguments about complexity and evolution are contradictory, and is why they have been demonstrated as falsed and dismissed by scientists.    Strobel dismisses string theory as so much nonsense.  He forgets to mention that some version of the various string theories stands a good chance of becoming the theoretical structure that finally unites Einstein's theory of relativity with quantum mechanics.  The physicists working on this have spent years developing detailed mathematical models supporting the theories that you and I (and Strobel, too) have no chance of even comprehending.  The data that has led to the string theories has been empirically observed many times.  I had to laugh when Strobel dismisses Hawking's theories.  Hawking could run intellectual and mathematical circles around Strobel that would make him dizzy for a week.    Strobel also resurrects the \\"rare earth\\" hypothesis, long ago refuted, as proof of divine design of our particular solar system, and how conducible the earth is for life.  First off, the Earth was not designed for us, we evolved within it to surivive in its conditions.  Asking why the earth is so suited for us is like a puddle of water in a hole in the ground asking why the hole was made to perfectly hold it; the water shapes itself to the hole, just aslife shapes itself to its environment.  We live in a visible universe which contains some seventy sextillion stars; and it's very likely that our visible universe is but a tiny fraction of the total cosmos.  The number of stars is truly innumerable.  With that amount of stars, somewhere, sometime, there will arise a planet suited for carbon life - probably many times.    Then there is the latest incarnation of creationism:  information theory.  This theory is essentially the mathematical application of information theory to biological systems in a conjectured and strained manner.  It is claimed that genetic mutation and natural selection, the driving forces of evolutionary change, cannot add information.  Complete nonsense.  Every point mutation is an addition of information.  It is well documented that a common mutation is for an entire gene to be duplicated in copying, essentially creating a whole new gene subject to further mutation which can enable the organism to perform a brand new function.  That is new information.     When a religious belief system refuses to even investigate and properly understand the voluminous scientific data that supports present understanding of the origins of the universe and life within it, you can know that it's nearing its utter irrelevance.  The intellectual incuriosity coupled with resolute arrogance within the fundamentalist community regarding serious scientific issues is the proverbial \\"pride before the fall\\".    The only way out is for fundamentalists to take an honest look in the mirror, come out of their intellectual closet, and begin to understand the data and synthesize their faith with known scientific fact.  There is no other way.  Fundamentalists are continuing to follow a path of dangerous ignorance that is making their faith look more and more ridiculous every day.  It is time for a renewal in the community.      Strobel will not be leading the way.	2004-08-19
US	50432075	R2OC24MAHP4555	0802841805	123957278	The Scandal of the Evangelical Mind	Books	4	39	53	N	N	Compelling, but ultimately dangerous?	Noll has written a very compelling book, which I only recently discovered in the last year.  I have my own view of the questions in this work.  At the time of publication in 1994, I had already become a post-fundamentalist, post-evangelical believer.  Due to the unique nature of my own history and learning since then, I have become a religiously interested agnostic.  So, a caveat on my review:  I have moved from being a very committed, born-again evangelical Christian waiting with great expectation for the &quot;revelation of Christ&quot; in the final days to my present status which entails a metaphorical interpretation of Scripture as non-literal historical myth-making that speaks deeper truths about what it is to be human in our cosmos, seeking the divine in life.  At this time, I find it very difficult to accept the unlikely prospect of a personal, conscious being referred to as 'God'.  This response is less of a review (there are already fine ones here), but an attempt to respond with my own probing questions.  If you're open-minded (as Noll seems to extol) I urge you to not prejudice this review and automatically label in `unhelpful'.<br />Noll states several times (obviously not picked up by at least one reviewer) that his book is not a deep intellectual treatise on evangelicalism, but a historical review of the development of its ideas, beliefs, and present status.  I found it a probing and accurate summary of the current state of American evangelicalism.  I have family members who are evangelicals and committed dispensationalists and I'm very aware of their beliefs and perspectives on the world.  I found this book to speak accurately about my own past experiences with evangelicalism and the contemporary experiences of evangelicals close to me.  <br />The book breaks into roughly three sections.<br />1. A review of the historical challenges to Protestant belief during the 19th and early 20th centuries and it's varied responses to those challenges.  In the face of great intellectual challenges, social change, modern politics, increased secularization, and the destabilizing experiences of two world wars, Protestantism split into multiple factions, one of which was represented by evangelical fundamentalism.  There is no longer a \\"Protestantism\\" but many protestantisms.  <br />2. The practical effects of these developments and what it has meant to evangelicalism in America, specifically as they relate to Christian thinking in the realms of politics and science.  Noll argues that the implication has been the withdrawal, evacuation even, of evangelical participation in the intellectual life of post-modern society and a reactionary response has come to dominate.<br />3. Is there hope for the future of modern American evangelicalism?  Can there be, will there be, is there, a new awakening, a Renaissance of evangelical thinking?  It is to this question I will address my final comments.<br />I understand some of the reactionary reviews of this book.  I believe that it is deeply threatening to evangelical belief, because that has been the case for the response in Europe, the American post-modern university establishment, the intelligentsia, and my own response.  While evangelicals scoff at \\"darkened Europe\\" (a term I heard not long ago) they fail to recognize the cause and effects of the emergence of a post-Christian Europe, and ultimately fear a rise of a post-Christian U.S.  Can evangelicalism even survive rigorous intellectual inquiry?  It is a legitimate question.  My own opinions aside, it ought to be contemplated by those who call themselves evangelical.  The prevalence of the scientific method that has come to be applied to all questions of reality: cosmology, biology, history, religion has been the ultimate cause of the emergence of a post-Christian West.  It seems to imply the demise of evangelicalism and maybe traditional Christianity itself.  Maybe I am wrong, that is for evangelicals to work out in an intellectually honest manner.  But coming to acknowledge a `metaphorical' interpretation of Genesis 1-11 that coheres to modern scientific understanding, how is one to justify a literal interpretation of Matthew 1-28?  How would evangelicals, in this new spirit of intellectual inquiry determine what is metaphorically true versus literally true, what method would be constructed?  An honest comparison of the gospels one to another suggests that strict literalism is untenable in the Christian as well as Hebrew scriptures.  Can the fundamentals of Christian belief in original sin and redemption be made compatible with biological evolution?  Can the eschatological tradition be reconciled with modern scientific understanding of the future of the cosmos?  These are questions that I have considered, and ultimately decided in the negative.  Perhaps I'm missing something to indicate otherwise.<br />I'm in a state of limbo regarding Christian belief.  A cursory (I'm no scholar) intellectual inquiry on Christianity has led many, many folks to reject Christianity altogether.  Can post-fundamentalist, post-Christian inhabitants of the West come to re-embrace traditional Christianity?  Might I one day re-embrace Christianity?  Perhaps, but it will not be the Christianity of my erstwhile youth; to re-attach myself to traditional Christianity presently, and may continue, to entail a crucifixion of the intellect.<br />I have provided many more questions than answers.  Evangelicals, for the sake of the survival of their own belief system must begin examining these questions.  They are dangerous ones and provoke fear, even outrage at times.  If you have an open and curious mind, I recommend this book.  I'm not confident, however, that the result of a rigorous fruitful application of its underlying tenets will comfort modern evangelicals.  Taken to its logical conclusion, it may mean an even greater crisis for evangelicals.<br />Just a response from an intellectually honest individual who is presently suspending judgment...	2004-04-09
US	50432075	RL81DSUDHFISL	080063490X	157191151	Jesus and Empire: The Kingdom of God and the New World Disorder	Books	4	60	72	N	N	Compelling, intriguing, deeply thought provoking	Horsley's work strongly defends his thesis that Jesus was a prophet leading a community of social and economic renewal of Israel.  He carefully considers the economic and social environment of the day in Palestine and compares it to the Mosaic tradition and law that had been cultivated over centuries by the prophets.  His primary argument is that the historical tradition was a legacy of God working for the poor and the oppressed, the &quot;orphan and the widow&quot;, opposing the exploitative empirical construct of the ancient world.  In the tradition of Moses who freed the Hebrew people from the enslaving Egyptians, and of Elijah who called for a restoration and renewal of the Israelites to their covenantal God, Jesus assumed the role of a new herald of renewal for the people.  Another example not mentioned is the book of Daniel, which predicted the destruction of the Seleucid kingdom of Antiochus IV Ephiphanes in the 2nd century BCE, and its replacement with the kingdom of God, one of justice and peace.  Horsley depends to a very great extent on the tradition of the prophets to justify his interpretation.  <br />Horsley is most successful when he abolishes the myth that Jesus or his fellow Jews had any notion of separation of religion from state.  Such an idea would have been incomprehensible nonsense at the time, as alien as the theocratic government of Iran is to modern day Americans.  There was no such separation:  renewal of the covenant meant the renewal of political life as well as economic and social life.  Horsley uses the gospel of Mark and Q (by way of Luke) as evidence for his argument.  Juxtaposing these documents with the Israelite covenantal tradition, he lays out his evidence from both the actions and speeches of Jesus as understood by his original audience.  Jesus proclaimed \\"blessed are the poor, the hungry, and the mourning; woe to the rich, the full, and the laughing.\\"  He was turning the social, political, and economic reality upside-down.  Hiswas a harsh judgment of the status quo represented by the imperium of Rome and the collaborating high priests.  The raw evidence in its context demonstrates that, similar to other popular prophets of the time, Jesus posed a great political threat to Rome.  His crucifixion, his teaching to the rural poor, his denunciation of the Jerusalem elites, and his exorcisms all point to this antagonism towards Rome.  Exorcisms?  Jesus exorcised \\"2,000 demons\\" named \\"Legion\\" who possessed two men, cast them into a herd of pigs who rushed headlong into the sea, drowning.  His hearers would understand.  A \\"legion\\" was a 2,000-strong Roman military garrison, symbolically cast into pigs, an unclean animal to Jews, and thrown into the Mediterranean Sea whence they had come, vanquished.  Just as Yahweh had thrown the enslaving Egyptians into the Sea of Reeds and drowned them as they pursued the liberated Hebrews.  The advantage of Horsley's approach is that it coheres with the Israelite tradition of the divine being on the side of the oppressed and against their rulers, makes sense of his crucifixion (a distinctly Roman execution), and comprehends his teachings.  His resurrection confirmed to his disciples that God was not on the side of the strong and powerful, but the poor, weak, and oppressed.  In their view, God had the final word.<br />His arguments make sense, even if they are incomplete.  It has been said many times that scholars always find a Jesus that coheres with their own personal political, economic, and/or social ideology.  I have generally found this to be true.  I have generally determined that they all reveal some truth but obscure the whole truth.  It is a noble attempt, bringing a revered, but ancient figure into the modern world and fashioning a model that is intelligible to a postmodern, educated, and sophisticated culture.  Ultimately, none of them can do so.  Jesus was a 1st century Jewish prophet, he was not a 21st century anything.  To a very large extent Ibelieve that his essential person is unintelligible to us today.  I see Jesus not as a 21st century economic liberal or a 21st century moral traditionalist, but something combining both of these elements, in an intensified form.  Jesus prohibited divorce (a key insight to his moral worldview) and called for the renewal for a communal (read:  communist), egalitarian economic and social life featuring mutual sharing and generosity towards friend and enemy alike.  Our postmodern society has separated these ideas into vastly different paradigms and placed them on opposite sides of the political spectrum.  The society Jesus lived in didn't separate economy from morality.  It was all one, unitary understanding of what the covenant of the Creator entailed.  We wonder why it can be so hard to understand Jesus and his sayings:  two millennium, language, culture, political structure, history, social structure and institutions, and religious tradition all separate us.  No wonder the difficulty; he can just barely be translated.  <br />The final section is the disturbing and thought-provoking end.  Is America the new Rome?  Exploiting Middle Eastern peoples, supporting corrupt regimes, waging pre-emptive war to advance our ideology of economic prosperity for our own people, just as Rome extracted the money of peasants to build glorious cities for their elite?  Terrorism, both ancient and modern, as the response of the poor and powerless towards outside meddling in their own countries affairs? The argument isn't perfect but it is compelling, especially given our recent adventures in Iraq where it is all but concluded that there was no WMD, no imminent threat.  I have thought extensively lately about messianism in general, and observed that all empires see themselves in messianic terms, bringing peace, justice, prosperity, and order to the world.  Rome saw themselves as such, and there is no arguing that America doesn't also.  But God did not agree!  What would Jesus say to us?<br />If Jesus were to somehow return, he would not go to Tel Aviv, but to Ramallah.<br />No conclusions can ultimately be drawn, but it certainly stimulates considerable thought.	2004-01-27
US	50432075	RKPDYJQV9LA5J	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	34	53	N	N	Coulter's polemic against her self-created &quot;liberals&quot;	The flaws in this book are innumerable, from factual and historical errors to violation of every logical fallacy known to man.  But I would like to point out the most basic and deceptive technique of Coulter:  the creation of her self-labeled group called &quot;liberals&quot;.<br />Coulter's group of elitist, intellectual &quot;Liberals&quot; does not exist.  After reading through this work, it became very apparent to me that the enumeration of character flaws, lies, and slanted polemic of her 'Liberals' applies to absolutely no one on earth.  Her 'Liberals' are a self-defined construct that she has built up with primarily anonymous statements, ideologies, opinions, and quotes lifted out of their original context and considered in isolation from the originator's general world-view.  'Liberals' first supported the Vietnam War, then blamed the Republicans; 'Liberals' say that Truman, not Reagan won the Cold War; 'Liberals' said that Afghanistan would be another quagmire; 'Liberals' were soft on communism.  Of course, one can find somebody who espouses these individual views from time to time, it is the result of the diversity of human understanding and everyone's unique knowledge and experience.  However, Coulter writes as if these ideas and all others she delineates are fully incorporated as some sort of official dogma that is universally believed by some collective, monolithic group in academia, news organizations, and political bureaucracies who are united in their worldview and their hatred and antipathy towards America.  This is her constructed and non-existent mythical group called the &quot;Liberals&quot;.<br />This is garbage and complete nonsense.  Nearly every paragraph contains yet another diatribe against this nebulous, mythical group of 'Liberals'.  Who are the members of this group?  She never tells us.  It becomes crystal clear that in actuality the group does not exist.  <br />Both common sense and life experience demonstrate to each of us that every individual is unique, and the entire spectrum of political leanings are represented in the population.  Can one find somebody who holds every belief that Coulter accuses this group of?  Maybe, but I doubt there is even one.  Most people hold a variety of views about many subjects, some of which could be considered &quot;liberal&quot; and others &quot;conservative&quot;.  Her 'Liberals' is a constructed paradigm that Coulter has created in order to justify her own polemic against a political myth in order for her to sell books and make money.<br />Save your money, this book is worthless.	2004-01-26
US	50432075	RAV1QJ6KVNSO3	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	This book is good	This is a very good book, a 1,200 or so page summary of the history of the world.  Roberts is balanced, fair, and accurate in his reporting.  He does not pander to Western stereotypes like some do.  For example, he acknowledges the fact that the 'Middle Ages' really were no such thing.  The period we label that was really a development of tradition along a straight trajectory into the present modern world.  He effectively dispels the 'Dark Ages' myth.  As an example, he demonstrates that it was in the 11th and 12th centuries that Europe began recovering the ancient Greek and Roman philosophies from the Arabs, translating them, expanding upon them.  One of the most important late realizations of the foundations of Western civilization is the debt that is owed to Islamic society.  To them we owe much:  medicine, algebra, astronomy, architecture, anatomy, the diffusion of Eastern culture to the West.<br />Roberts also writes in an engaging manner.  He does not go into great detail often, surely impossible in a world of such vast scope.  On occasion he will indulge in detail when it is particularly important or interesting.  He pays careful attention to the roots of events; the fall of the Roman Empire for example.  He eloquently explains all the changes to Roman society that began in the 3rd century that resulted in the eventual fall of the Western Empire, without simplifying obscurely.  I find this a very easy book to read, and highly enjoyable.<br />The book is somewhat Western-centric, and as you move eastward there is less and less detail.  I think that Islamic civilization is covered in considerable depth relatively which is positive, but when you proceed to India, China, Japan the material loses some attention.  Overall, still a very good read.	2004-01-15
US	50432075	R3L53SSOCTTND7	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great historical summary of ME	Countering some of the past reviews of this work, I am giving it high praise.  I found this book remarkable.  True, it is a lot of time to fit into some 400 pages, and it does contain a great amount of detail, but those with a modicum of background on Middle Eastern and Islamic civilization, I think will find this a very good book.  Lewis is a serious and intelligent scholar, and it is obvious that his knowledge is vast in its breadth.<br />It is broken into four parts:  Foundations, Early Islam, Cross-Sections, and the Challenge of Modernity.  I have seen that many criticize the disruption to the flow of the work that the Cross-Sections represents, which focuses on things like culture, state, religion and law, etc.  But I disagree.  If one thing is clear it is that there is a clear break in Islamic civilization between its past glory and its present malaise.  Lewis objectively examines this in a very factual and fair manner.  The last section, which talks about Challenge, Change, War, etc. is really the story of how and why Islamic civilization declined relative to Europe after having experienced such great power and wealth.  Also, the Cross-Sections offers a glimpse into the personal history of the region.  It's focus on the internal structures and constructs of society is a great counter-balance to the history of conquests and defeats, the official `history' which is really always about the ruling elite.<br />Lewis carefully describes the environment prior to the coming of Islam, the condition of Byzantium, and the environment of Arabia before Muhammad.  A nomadic, tribal civilization, within 100 years, had been transformed into a vast Empire stretching from India to Spain, patronizing the arts, building breathtaking mosques, and learning the classical history of the West!  That in itself is a respectable accomplishment.  At its early ages, Islam was far more tolerant than Christianity; Muslims generally did not force the conversion of Christians and Jews (although they did to other peoples at times) and so-called `heretical' Christians received much better treatment than under the orthodox nature of the Byzantine state.  The also were freer to acquire land and use it to better their livelihood.  <br />Islam took root at the center of the Old World.  Largely due to this, they were continually threatened on the west by Europe and on the south and east by Turks and Mongols.  This was bound to cause trouble of course, but the Islamic tradition proved powerful enough to convert the pagan conquerors; within 100 years, the Mongols were Muslims.  Chaos and uncertainty of course occurred, but it proved transitory.  <br />A complete account of what life was actually like for Muslims of the time is contained in the Cross-Sections.  You will read about the great age of Arabic love poetry, the brilliant accomplishments in architecture and science, the practical implications of the split between Sunni and Shiite.  And most interestingly, for myself, the emergence of the Sufi mystical tradition, which had popular appeal among the commonality.  A mystical, ecstatic tradition, it sought closeness with the unity of God through personal transcendent experience.  The tradition combined aspects of older religions, Christianity, central Asian shamanism, Egyptian rituals, for example.  Brotherhoods of Sufi dervishes were to become very important, particularly in the Ottoman Empire.<br />The final section deals with the decline of the Middle East.  Economic decline was accompanied by border conflicts for both the Ottomans and the Iranian Safavids, as both Russia and Europe began rising militarily and conquering strategic lands very valuable for their resources and/or access to international trading routes.  The rise of nationalism, an import from Europe, proved unmanageable for the Ottoman Empire and disintegration of the peoples inevitably followed.  The resources required for true industrialization were not in as great numbers as in Europe norwere they effectively utilized.  Also, in companionship with the late Roman Empire, a qualitative decrease in the military ability of the Janissaries and reduced discipline led to a pattern of military defeat.  The death knell, of course was WW1.  Due to historical accidents, the Ottoman Empire became aligned with Germany.  When Germany lost, so did the Ottoman Empire and Britain and France carved nations out of the fallen empire, and the struggle to adapt to that idea continues to this day.  But, things are changing for the better.  At the time of this writing there are many positive signals of democratic reform coming from Iran; more power to the Iranians.<br />This book may be a bit dense, but it's very good.  I have read several sections a couple of times.	2004-01-15
US	50432075	R2C4V6OVTWP9QD	0375415289	486101271	In Search of Zarathustra: The First Prophet and the Ideas That Changed the World	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderful story of Zoroaster�s legacy	This book is wide in scope and erudite.  It is also a delight to read.  The travels of the author in his search for the ancient prophet takes him to all corners of the ancient world.  From Iran to Great Britain, Spain, the central Asian steppes, and to Germany with the philosophical legacy of the famous existentialist, Nietzsche.  The manner in which Kriwaczek makes the topic relevant to all stages of history is fascinating.  You will come away with a rich appreciation for the impact that this prophet had on history.  <br />After his adult faith crisis, Nietzsche one day was \\"visited\\" by Zoroaster high up the mountains, when night became day, and one became two.  You see, Zoroaster innovated strict ethical dualism, the separation of good from evil, and embodied these principles into two beings, constantly at war with each other, with mankind pitted in the middle and compelled to choose between the two.  This separation, and its consequent morality was, to Nietzsche, one of the greatest travesties to have ever been invented.  It enslaved mankind in a delusional game in which there was no winner, and he dedicated much of his writing to the liberation of mankind from the tangles of restrictive religion, which was doing far more harm than good.  His writings became the basis for 20th century existentialism, postmodernism, deconstructionism, and Rorty's antirepresentationalism, oddly connecting Zoroastrianism to postmodern secular culture.  <br />The Cathar heresy of Spain wherein pope Leo had thousands of its followers massacred, believed in two powers, two entities that were equals from eternity and were in battle with one another.  This was not Catholic dualism, it was heresy, for it made Satan into God's equal.  Individual's spirits would be passed on to the next generation if they had not reached the full maturity required of them.  For these beliefs, they paid with their blood, after Leo's famous statement \\"Kill them all; God will know his own\\".  Kriwaczek speculates on the possible source of their beliefs (unproven), the Hunnish Goths from the central Asian steppes, who passing through the Balkans may have passed on Manichaeism to the Cathars by way of historical tradition.  Manichaeism, of course, began as a heretical sect within Zoroastrianism, and the ruler of Persia had Mani put to death.  His followers did not abandon him or his Gnostic beliefs but adapted a new religious tradition out of them.  <br />The chapter on Mithras is the least helpful, and considering the recent scholarship of Ulansey on Roman Mithraism, which calls into serious doubt any links to Persia at all, probably contains a lot of inaccurate speculation.  Nonetheless, the description of the mysteries of the religion, and the stories of the Mithraeum controversy in post-war Britain are both interesting.<br />Alexander's conquest slowed the Zoroastrian faith for a time, and a period of syncretism followed for the prophet's faith in which many Greek ideas were incorporated.  Biblical Daniel was the Hebrew most profoundly affected by Persian religion and incorporated its compelling ideas into Judaism.  The belief in a final eschatological battle, the coming of a messiah, and the future resurrection of the dead were all originally Zoroastrian beliefs.  The Qumran community of the Essenes were apocalyptic enthusiasts whose Dead Sea Scrolls reveal a tremendous amount of Zoroastrian influence.  <br />Finally, we come to the first significant group of people influenced by these beliefs:  the rulers of ancient Persia, with special attention on Cyrus and Darius.  Both were committed Zoroastrians who spread their religion throughout their empire and who both have tombs still visited by tourists depicting the symbol of Ahura Mazda and other religious inscriptions.<br />The author points out the distinct character of Iranian Islam, and the traces of the ancient Zoroastrian traditions that are still part of Iranian practice and belief, if only unconsciously.  The celebratation of Noruz, the Zoroastrian New Year, adapted for Islam.  Depictions of Mithra, the Zoroastrian sun god, can still found in Iran.  Shi'ite belief (centered in Iran and southern Iraq) in practice is very distinct from Sunni, with its belief in a hidden twelfth imam, who will appear at the end of time, destroy the forces of evil, and establish a kingdom of justice and righteousness.  All of this, of course is evocative of the Zoroastrian Saoshyant, who would be miraculously conceived by a virgin in a lake preserving the prophet's semen, and accomplish the same act.<br />This work is not a profound work of scholarship, so be wary of drawing too many firm conclusions from it.  But, it is a joy to read and can be done so in a short amount of time.  It is lively and entirely engaging, highly recommended.	2003-12-16
US	50432075	R3HBMZ0B7OAI5J	1842121650	360892226	The Dawn and Twilight of Zoroastrianism (Phoenix Press)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Excellent exposition of the Zoroastrian faith	Zaehner is probably the most respected Zoroastrian scholar around.  If you want a clear and concise exposition of the Zoroastrian faith and historical experience, this is the work to consult.  This book requires a modicum of understanding in order to comprehend the development of the faith, however, so I wouldn't recommend it as a first read.  Mary Boyce's `Zoroastrians' is a good first book, as is Nigosian's `The Zoroastrian Faith'.  I began reading this book first and couldn't get through it.  Once I had some background, I was able to come back to it and read it with ease.<br />Zaehner goes to the very beginning:  Zoroaster himself.  He dates him to the traditional, but mostly now discredited, time of about 250 years before Alexander's conquest.  The evidence for this comes from a single unreliable source, and most of the evidence indicates a time between 1600 and 1300 BCE.  The primary line of evidence comes from the language and manner in which the Gathas, the songs of Zoroastrianism and the Avesta, the first scriptures are written:  they indicate an undeveloped pastoral culture that had not yet begun to coalesce into a dominant Persian culture.  The inaccuracy is not a big deal for this work.  Zoroaster's ideas were truly revolutionary, to have a most dramatic impact on history in his singular development of the binary dualism of the cosmic sphere and metaphysical reality.  He claimed there was one God worthy of worship, Ahura Mazda, who had one primary adversary, Angra Mainyu, who embodied the Lie and all that was evil.  These beings were primal and respectively chose, according to the true natures, good and evil before the dawn of creation.  Later to also be incorporated into certain sects of second Temple Judaism and in Christianity, these two beings were engaged in a cosmic battle for control over the world that would one day be finalized in an eschatological drama in Ahura's favor with the devil forever consigned to misery and torment.  The prophet reducedthe daevas, beings worshipped by the original Indo-Iranians to demons; they were the gods of the cattle raiders and symbolized cosmic chaos.  The former benevolent deities were changed to the status of Amesha Spenta, emanations of the one God.  Most likely, Zoroaster is also responsible for turning Indra, an important warrior-god, into a malevolent deity.  In so doing, Zoroaster created the first unequivocally dualist religion, embodied by the strict separation of the good and the true from the bad and the false into two distinct beings, a religion which every man was to choose which side he was on.<br />The world was created by Ahura Mazda in order to help defeat the forces of evil, and was subsequently despoiled by Angra Mainyu who constantly attempted to thwart Ahura's will, an example being his sullying of glorious fire with smoke.  Gaining the patronage of Vishtaspa, a northeasterly king, Zoroaster's message spread throughout the Iranian plateau.  By the time Cyrus the Great conquers Babylon, the new religion had become the dominant one, although having been altered subsequent to his death, most likely by Magi, by a lessening of the strictness of the monotheistic claim.  It became the official religion of the Persian Empire and there is clear evidence that at least by the time of Darius, it was the one that was faithfully adhered to by the nobles and general population.  This ascendancy represents Zaehner's \\"dawn\\" of the religion.<br />Zaehner discusses various strains within Zoroastrianism in extensive detail:  hard monotheism, Zurvanism, of which there were at least two distinct types, and Manichaeism.  All of these represented misunderstandings or syncretistic alterations of the original faith.  Orthodox Zoroastrianism was marked by an eschatological fervor, the first religion to exhibit such qualities.  The present world would one day end, after the appearance of one of Zoroaster's miraculously conceived descendants, called the Saoshyant, the forces of theLie would be defeated, and humans would be bodily resurrected into a new paradise that would last forevermore.  In the end, grace would be universal:  after punishment and purification of the followers of the Lie, all human beings would eventually participate in this blessed existence, a true and lasting victory for Ahura Mazda, while Angra Mainyu would be reduced to ruin for eternity.  <br />Zoroastrianism thrived in Iran, competed with Christianity and Manichaeism, and eventually gave in to Islam, after holding out respectably.  Today it is a minority faith with less than one million adherents, mostly in India and Iran.  Its effect was to last to this day, however:  Christianity, via Judaism, and Islam would adopt much of its teaching, primarily reflected in their ethical dualism and eschatology.<br />This is the seminal work on the faith and is an excellent resource and must own for the history of religion enthusiast.	2003-12-16
US	50432075	R349UWPTQVZ9EJ	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A key to understanding the present conflict	Lewis is without a doubt one of the top scholars of Middle East history and always presents a fair and balanced analysis of current events informed by a vast knowledge of its history.  This is a brief and helpful explanation of the reasons behind the current divide between the West and Muslim Arabia.  Lewis takes us on a historical journey through the Middle East with particular attention to its relations with the West, first Europe, then America.  You will learn about...<br />The history of the region is thoroughly steeped in the experience of the rise and fall of empire.  Though the idea of a modern clash of civilizations as expounded by some lacks sufficient evidence and is only defended with great difficulty, the age of empire was a clash of civilization, particularly where Islam met Christendom on the eastern edge of Europe and the western edge of first the Arab empire, then the Ottoman empire.  This was particularly acute in Palestine, as it was holy ground to both faiths, and the Crusades and their aftermath are examples of the ferocity of this clash.  The experiences of the Crusades and their attendant horrors helped to lay a foundation for resentment between cultures.<br />Islam does not have to be an inherently intolerant faith, although it has had its intolerant moments, particularly in the Arab caliphate and the Safavid Empire of Iran.  This is not much different however than much of the behavior of medieval Europe under the suzerainty of the papacy.  However, unlike Christianity, Islam began as a religion tied to the state and the expansion of the first Muslim empire was inseparable from the spread of the religion.<br />While modern Europe began emerging under the prodding of the Reformation, the Enlightenment, and political reform, the Ottoman Empire fell into a period of retreat that ended in its post-WWI dismemberment by the West.  Since that time the development of political institutions and the diffusion of culture has been a transfer of Western ideas eastward, and in some cases outright implantation by the West.  While Europe had hundreds of years to develop the modern concept of the nation-state, Islam had it imposed.  Imposition is never as successful as indigenous evolution, and the failure of \\"modernity\\" as we understand it was aided by its failure.<br />History is contingent by its nature.  The rise of the House of Saud and its marriage to an emergent 18th century Wahhabist extremism, aided by vast revenues from a future exploitation of oil in the 20th century, provided the resources and means needed to spread an intolerant and oppressive form of Islam around the world.  A radical ideology came to govern Arabia, the center of the Muslim world, a place Muslims regard as the source of their religious tradition.<br />An imposition of political constructs unfamiliar and doomed to failure, a lack of effective economic management of resources, vastly deficient standards of living in a globalizing economy dominated by America, plus extremist religious fundamentalism and the wealth and patronage needed to spread it around the world.  The result:  international terrorism.  We are where we are for very specific reasons.  Lewis brilliantly explicates this.	2003-11-18
US	50432075	R3LICCKH18I80Q	0195102797	896325237	The Orthodox Corruption of Scripture: The Effect of Early Christological Controversies on the Text of the New Testament	Books	4	123	135	N	N	Interesting early textual history; not for everyone	Ehrman goes on a investigative journey into the heart of the biblical texts to unearth evidence of quite extensive manipulation of the original text of the New Testament.  Although much of this work is very detailed argumentation and goes far beyond the textual knowledge of the typical layperson it remains accessible.  It's a compelling account of the textual history.<br />The finest chapter is that which deals with the initial environment of Christianity, the diversity of faiths present, and the struggle over an emerging orthodoxy not solidified until the fourth century.  Explicating this, Ehrman provides an informative account of a particular portion of the early history of the church.  He reviews the various church fathers, their writings, and their polemical attacks against their opponents.  It should come as no surprise that the evidence of who these opponents actually were does not agree with the orthodox interpretation of them as sensual, deviant deceivers and idolaters.  In many cases, there were honest differences of opinion and each group sought its own way of accommodating the writings of the new church and the Old Testament.<br />Each succeeding chapter deals with a different controversy.  The lengthiest discussion is related to orthodox changes made to scripture regarding whether Jesus was the adopted Son of God, a very righteous man or the pre-existent image of God.  A straight reading of the earliest gospel of Mark leads to the adoptionist conclusion.  Especially troublesome was John's baptism of Jesus and the subsequent arrival of the spirit of God in bodily form and God's pronouncement of Jesus' son-ship.  Besides this appearing in all three synoptic gospels, with the addition of Matthew's clever manipulation to ensure proper interpretation of the event, there are many instances where the mention of Jesus' earthly father Joseph has been changed to align with more orthodox beliefs.  Ehrman provides an extensive discussion and defense of his conclusion that Luke's baptism pericope originally had the voice of God state \\"today I have begotten you\\", not simply \\"whom I have begotten\\" as currently appears in all bibles.  <br />The remaining chapters deal with separationist, docetic, and patripassianist heresies.  Separationists believe that Jesus and the Christ were separate beings, docetists that Jesus lacked a material body, and patripassianists that Jesus was the Father God Himself who had suffered, died, and risen.  All are very interesting.<br />This may not be a good book for a layperson, unless you are highly interested in the textual history of the New Testament.  For some, this may be too much parsing, and textual analysis.  But, if you can get through it, it is extremely helpful and interesting knowledge.	2003-11-13
US	50432075	R15DMJCWHPK3OZ	0300084579	189044028	From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of the New Testament Images of Christ, Second Edition	Books	5	130	138	N	N	THE seminal work on historical Jesus	If you only read one book on the historical Jesus this should be it.  Although I think that Fredriksen oversteps in her analysis in a few cases, overall her analysis and conclusions are right on the money.  She is one of the best New Testament scholars working in the field and her careful presentation of the evidence and support for her conclusions is strong and reliable.  Her reasoning is exceptionally careful and for the most part simply allows the text to speak for itself with exceptional clarity.<br />Fredriksen first lays out the world of the New Testament.  A brief introduction on the nature of the documents and the challenges that they present begins her discussion.  For those who have done a careful reading of the gospels it is apparent that there are minor as well as significant differences between them.  Far from being slight changes to previous copies, they represent different understandings of who Jesus was.  In many cases they represent vastly different conceptions of theology, and the future for the followers of the risen Jesus.  One must delve deep into the documents with an understanding of their history and transmission in order to gain a clear perspective on this.  She has done this precisely and the reader is the one who benefits from her work.  Extremely helpful for understanding this is a comprehension of the Hellenistic world that Jesus was born into, the enduring legacy of Alexander's conquests that we ourselves live in the shadow of to this day.  History often turns on a dime and vast changes for posterity sometimes depend on the smallest of events:  the birth and rise of Alexander of Macedon is one such event.<br />Fredriksen moves backward in time, beginning with the highly developed esoteric Christology in the gospel of John at the turn of the century back to the very Jewish, earthy, eschatological Mark, written between 65 and 75 AD.  Carefully laying out the evidence of the texts, Fredriksen incisively reasons a very likely history of thedevelopment of the ideas of Jesus and takes us back to the most probable reconstruction of who the man of history truly was.  She then evaluates Paul, who represents a sort of anomaly compared to the gospel development and demonstrates that the theological development wasn't necessarily as smooth a trajectory as one would presume.  <br />In order to gain a proper understanding of the context all this takes place in and why indeed it even occurs one must have a modicum of knowledge about the history of Israel, and the development of messianism that began with the experience of the Babylonian Exile and the subsequent influence of Persian religious ideas on historical Judaism.  Indeed it was this time, from the sixth century through the second, that proved formative to Jewish ideas, which when mixed with Hellenism produced the Christian religion that we know today, which subsequently greatly influenced Islam.  (What an amazing time in history!)  This book describes that process.  For a more complete analysis of the particularities, I recommend Cosmos, Chaos, and the World to Come by Norman Cohn.  <br />Fredriksen then proceeds to the development of the Christian faith and its process of evolving away from Judaism that occurred as a result of the experience of the resurrection (whatever that was).  This experience and an exegesis of the Hebrew Scriptures led the first followers to make some dramatic conclusions about what had really happened and what Jesus' mission was.  Also significant in this process was the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple in 70 AD, which had a profound effect on the subsequent development of the tradition.  Fredriksen lays this out for the reader concisely and thoroughly.  She then summarizes by building a smooth trajectory from what we know about Jesus, the earliest gospels, to what the tradition came to be at the beginning of the second century.  <br />Do not let its 200 pages fool.  This work is thorough and packed with information and analysis.  It deserves two readings.	2003-11-13
US	50432075	R2XL4JPGWTAVE6	0664256767	140800659	Jesus, Justice and the Reign of God: A Ministry of Liberation	Books	5	39	39	N	N	One of the best historical Jesus reviews available	Herzog's work combines the best of the scholarship of traditional eschatological images of Jesus and more contemporary research related to the environment of Galilee, first century Judaism, and the circumstances of Roman occupation that is represented by Crossan and co.  Many traditional view of Jesus neglect the latter environment with an exclusive focus on the text of the Gospels and neglect the distinct Jewish character of Palestine.  Herzog has accomplished an impressive job in addressing both.<br />Herzog presents Jesus as a very Jewish prophet deeply rooted in the Old Testament tradition of justice and righteousness.  Seeing himself as a viceroy of God Himself, Jesus envisioned a renewal of the ancient covenantal relationship that had all but disappeared under aristocratic rule, foreign occupation, and the inexorable advance of a monetizing agrarian economy.  The innovation of private property rights, heavy taxation, and urbanization had the result of breaking God's original covenant with His people.  The people of Palestine, particularly the rural Galilee of Jesus' home were losing their land to powerful elites under the burden of this exploitation and were being reduced to destitution.  It is to these people that Jesus announced:  \\"Blessed are you destitute, for yours is the kingdom of God\\".  <br />The Old Testament presents us with a God whose concern is with his people and the prevailing rule of justice and semi-egalitarianism.  Extensive provisions are made to care for the poor, to regularly forgive debts, and ensure that all are provided for.  The earth did not belong to the people, it belonged to God, and it would bear fruit for the people of Israel provided they kept their covenant with Him.  This covenant eroded in time and was replaced with an emphasis on the temple sacrifices, temple tributes, and a focus not on the debt codes that were the heart of the covenant but with the purity codes.  To be impure was not to be sinful; everyone was impure at some time.  Menstruating women were impure, as were men who had had a nocturnal emission.  The leading rulers of the time in Judea had done two things that had violated the covenant:  the imposition of the exploitation of temple taxation as a means to provide wealth to Jerusalem, the Romans, and the ruling elites who collaborated with them, and the exchange of the debt codes as the rule of righteousness with the purity codes.  This is what Jesus opposed.  The temple was not an end, it was a means to an end and the moment it became exploitative and ceased serving the needs of the people it had become illegitimate.  The imposition of the purity codes above the debt codes had removed the righteousness and blessing of God away from the people who were poor and had no ability to live up to the Pharisaic purity standards.  This is the reason Jesus enacted a symbolic destruction of the temple, as it had become a \\"den of thieves\\", and why Jesus is presented as constantly in debate with the rulers of the people regarding purity versus debt.  Jesus did not oppose the Torah, he opposed the elitist conception of it; he did not abrogate the Sabbath, he reminded the people that the Sabbath was created for the benefit of the people, not the other way around.  <br />Jesus' God was a God of renewal and compassion, who re-established the people in God's covenant and freed them from the bonds of their imperial and religious leaders.  His exorcisms and healings were a symbolic breaking of these bonds, demonstrating God's power and teaching them that the debt codes and forgiveness was what the heart of God was concerned with, not purity.  This put Jesus on a collision course with the leaders of the people and the Romans.  It was a direct criticism of the status quo and a vision of a new kingdom in which God would rule.  This teaching, his symbolic act in the temple, his opposition to the payment of tribute to Caesar, and his predictions of a coming kingdom led to his crucifixion.  Yes, Jesus opposed the payment to Caesar; as another reviewer has noted, the commentary on this passage is superb.  Jesus did not see himself as a king, but his teachings of the kingdom and his eschatological vision led to the charge that he did.<br />This sounds like a \\"social gospel\\" of Jesus, in the liberal Protestant tradition.  To those who would criticize such an approach, I refer them to the Old Testament and the consistent and constant reference to the covenant, prosperity, and the eternal promise of the fruitfulness of the land for the people of God, not a property-owning minority.<br />This is without a doubt one of the best historical Jesus books you can buy.	2003-10-10
US	50432075	R2IN3WCNGIPRNE	0300090889	104837671	Cosmos, Chaos, and the World to Come, 2nd Edition	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Excellent read	This is a brief but fascinating journey through the history of ancient apocalyptic faith.  Cohn takes us to the very roots of civilization, explaining how the traditional cycles of life coincided with religious belief.  The cycles of death and rebirth, day and night, summer and winter, mixed in with occasional droughts, floods, and enemy invasion mirrored religious belief in an ordered cosmos that was originally formed by the gods out of a pre-existent chaos.  Cosmos wasn't absolutely secure however; chaos was always a threat to the daily ordered life of each civilization, so the benevolent gods continuously fought the &quot;chaos monsters&quot; that constantly threatened the ordered world.  Complex pantheons and creation myths arose out of these beliefs and sacrifices and gifts were brought to the gods to give them strength and worship in their enduring battle of protection of the people against chaos.<br />Cohn takes us to the earliest religious beliefs of Egypt, Mesopotamia, the Vedic Indians, and the Zoroastrians describing their beliefs, interconnectedness, innovations, and future implications.  He safely credits Zoroaster for the innovation of the first apocalyptic faith, the belief in a consummation of the never ending fight against chaos wherein the supreme god, Ahura Mazda would one day finally and forever defeat the gods of chaos; an age of prosperity, order, and goodness would then be ushered in.<br />Cohn then proceeds to Judaism and the specific experiences of the Israelites, particularly related to the Babylonian exile, when elite Jews discovered the compelling apocalyptic of Zoroastrianism and adapted it to their own faith in Yahweh.  Christians co-opted and greatly expanded these beliefs with a firm conviction of a coming apocalypse and an elaborate cosmic battle myth at the end of the age.<br />Cohn doesn't waste words; there is a lot of information in these 240 pages, each sentence is filled with fascinating facts.  I found his writing style slightly unconventional and it was difficult for me to absorb at times, I am re-reading several sections.  I also wish Cohn would have addressed Islam and completed the apocalyptic story of the Middle Eastern religious faiths.<br />A very good read.	2003-09-23
US	50432075	R1RYFJYTC5B7JM	0060616601	838932953	The Birth of Christianity : Discovering What Happened in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus	Books	4	87	88	N	N	A very impressive scholarly work, with some reservations	One reviewer has remarked that Crossan brings up a lot of great ideas that you don't necessarily agree with and I agree with this.  Being of the Jesus Seminar, many of the conclusions that Crossan draws are controversial and may lack familiarity; they are also sometimes quite unconventional and not always completely persuasive.  However, Crossan is a brilliant scholar who has studied the Jesus question for decades and it shows.  He goes further into the minutia of the study than the majority of his colleagues and for this his work deserves to be admired and studied.  He brings an extraordinary wealth of information to the table when he discusses an issue and never fails to advance compelling ideas and conclusions.  His methodology is thorough and comprehensive, much more so than many other scholars.<br />This work, a follow up to The Historical Jesus examines Christian beginnings in an archaeological and anthropological context with a careful discussion of the roles of oral tradition, literary developments, community tradition, and gender roles.  A very interesting set of chapters concerns the ability and role of memory in oral tradition.  He makes it plainly clear that absent an accurate, recorded history of even the simplest event, the original story cannot but evolve and change as it is re-remembered, re-told, re-imagined.  As in other cases, these acknowledgments are extremely helpful but not as persuasive as they might appear to be.  In ancient cultures where oral tradition was the only way of transmitting stories among illiterate peasants, memory was emphasized and specific memorization of even long texts and stories occurred regularly.  Nevertheless, the result in this case stands:  the stories and sayings of Jesus evolved as the first believers re-told, re-imagined, even invented, the stories.  This is precisely why so much of the narrative of the gospels lack a corresponding context and seem to hang in the air in a sort of timeless universe.<br />Crossan also spends a decent amount of time evaluating the texts as we have them, including the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel of Peter, and the Didache.  He relates a great deal of information regarding the Common Sayings Tradition, that material that the Gospel of Thomas shares with the Q document.  This section was extremely interesting.  I find the Thomas document intriguing since its seeming independence of Q and the gospels and its archaic, sayings-only format indicate an early date, while it's esoteric Gnostic feel and it's \\"kingdom of God among you\\" motif indicate a later date.  Although I disagree with Crossan on the apocalypticism of Jesus (I believe Jesus was apocalyptic), I still find his discussions regarding the sayings traditions very interesting and thought provoking.  <br />The juxtaposition of traveling itinerants and their patron householders creates the primary context within which the message of early Christianity is preached.  An evolving standard is evident from an evaluation of the earliest saying traditions such as Q and Mark compared to the Didache and other later writings.  An idealistic, poverty and dependent faith had to be tempered in order to be workable in a world wherein Jesus had not returned in the time frame expected.  Crossan provides an excellent discussion of this process.  He also describes the earliest Christian community in Jerusalem and its leader, James, the brother of Jesus.  He speculates on the Essene-like nature of the community incorporating ample evidence, but doesn't go further than that evidence warrants.  He paints a compelling picture of earliest Christianity.  It is vastly different from the one we have inherited.<br />The final sections are the most intriguing, those that deal with the common meal tradition and the development of the passion/resurrection story itself.  The common meal tradition is presented as a vitally important and fundamental aspect of the early history.  Sharing meals, providing meals, feasting all arerepresentative symbols of the kingdom of God:  the kingdom is bounty, it is full, it is community and participative.  And then came the story.  Evaluating the early canonical texts and incorporating his extrapolation of The Cross Gospel from the Gospel of Peter, Crossan describes the development of the passion story.  Since I haven't read his previous work, I am not in a position to opine about Crossan's early dating of the so-called Cross Gospel, nor its existence; I remain very skeptical.  His argument has many valid points and contains persuasive elements.  I find myself wanting to know more, and had hoped this book would give me much greater detail in regards to the development of the story, but it fell short of my expectations.  After all, the story is what became orthodox Christianity.  Crossan's explanation of the role of women in lamentation and the role of men in exegesis and how the interaction of those two elements created the stories that we have is fascinating.  It is no wonder the women are so prominent in the resurrection and appearance events if they aren't in later writings.<br />As I said, Crossan is not always totally convincing.  I remain a skeptic on many of his arguments, but am persuaded on others.  On the whole, this book is highly engaging, very thoroughly researched and tautly written.  It's not an easy book to digest, and is not for the beginner in this subject.  Even if I found myself disagreeing with Crossan, I was never unchallenged and always intrigued.  This work is highly learned and very stimulating.	2003-09-07
US	50432075	RIIGW2DX04OA4	0679767460	959790294	Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews: A Jewish Life and the Emergence of Christianity	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Very compelling and engaging human drama!	This is my first Paula Fredriksen book, and it proved delightful to read from cover to cover.  She presents a very well reasoned and researched work exploring the life and times of Jesus, who came to be called Christ.  Came to be called Christ because Paula digs deep into the heart of ancient Palestine and into the depths of the documentation we have of the time, primarily in the gospels and Josephus' works to explain how exactly this Jesus came to be the Christ.<br />She combs the Jewish scriptures to explain what was meant to label a person \\"Messiah\\" in the context of a disaffected and disheartened population subject to occupation and tyranny despite their promises from God to possess forever their promised land of milk and honey and live a life of peace and justice.  One of the problems, of course, is its very location:  Palestine was the heart and center of the ancient world and was a key strategic point between Europe, Asia Minor, Africa, Arabia, and the Far East.  No foreign power could resist its temptations and the Jews were the victims of the never-ending struggle for imperial power for centuries.  Out of these circumstances grew a religious idea of a conquering anointed one who would forever guarantee peace for God's people and extend peace and justice literally to the entire world from its heart, Israel.  At the same time in the Gentile world, a religious vacuum was being created as old ideas grew just that, old, and opened people's minds to a new religion promising what these people craved:  supernatural understanding of the cosmos, spiritual salvation, the revelation of mysteries.  The time and place were right for an itinerant prophet, a peaceful man of God, a wise Son of Man to be proclaimed to Jews and Gentiles alike as the savior, the Christ, of the entire world.<br />The book addresses its main topic:  why did Jesus die of crucifixion?  Being inseparable from the label of Christ, Fredriksen begins by explaining from Paul's epistles and the evolution of the gospel material how the first Christians came to be convinced that Jesus was the Messiah.  No one knew of a suffering Messiah, so a reconstruction of the life and identity of Jesus as well as a reinterpretation of the Jewish scriptures was required.  Being rich in poetry, history, and prophecy it wasn't difficult for the first believers to seek their answer to the experience of Jesus in their scriptures.  In them they found justification for a suffering Messiah who became a servant, one who would first appear in peace but disgrace, yet return in glory and power.  Paul's mission to the Gentiles and their ready response to it (refer to previous paragraph) was further confirmation that this Jesus was indeed the Messiah who would soon end the present world and usher in the kingdom of God.<br />After laying this solid foundation, describing ancient temple Judaism (Prelude 2, \\"The Temple\\" is absolutely a fantastic aside novella Fredriksen inserts), the Roman occupation, the early years of Christian teaching and writing, Fredriksen tackles her ultimate question:  why was Jesus crucified?  Crucifixion was reserved for political insurrectionists, violent revolutionaries; not peaceful \\"render unto Caesar what is Caesar's\\" prophets.  And why only him, why not his followers too?  Jesus was in the mold of John the Baptist, calling for repentance, warning of supernatural judgment, proclaiming the coming kingdom; however he didn't take up arms, he didn't rally zealous revolutionaries, so what threat was he to Rome?  Fredriksen narrates a growing expectation among the people about Jesus.  They admired, were \\"astonished\\" at his teachings, flocked to hear him in the Temple, listened intently to this prophet.  Did Jesus ever claim to be the King of Israel?  Ultimately we cannot know, but the evidence suggests that he didn't, historical anachronism put this label into Jesus' mouth retrospectively.  But the growing expectation among the people that a coming liberator, one \\"likea Son of Man\\", was indeed coming to free Israel caused more and more people to wonder if Jesus was the one, was this the one spoken of by the prophets.  One fateful Passover this expectation and the accompanying chatter grew loud enough for the chief priests and Pilate to unequivocally notice and something had to be done before a riot of the people occurred.  Neither Jesus nor his followers were perceived to be the direct threat, it was the people who loudly wondered whether Jesus could be their coming King.<br />The chief priests and Pilate decided to quickly silence this rumor and settle the people.  On the Friday of Passover, these excited Jews, wondering about a supernatural Passover liberation from God, woke up to find their \\"King of the Jews\\" nailed to a cross outside the city.  And so it ended.<br />The utter shock of the crucifixion of this peaceful prophet on the part of his followers led them to the scriptures.  In them they became convinced that the crowds were right:  this man was indeed the King of Israel and would soon return, bringing judgment to the world and freeing the people of God.  They preached the message, many believed, and a new religion was born.<br />Fredriksen has written a wonderful book.  I recommend it highly.  Her chapter on the crucifixion is so well done and is such a beautiful narration of a compelling and emotional human drama, my spine was chilled and I too, like the crowd, was \\"astonished\\".  You must read this.ne \\"like a Son of Man\\", was indeed coming to free Israel caused more and more people to wonder if Jesus was the one, was this the one spoken of by the prophets.  One fateful Passover this expectation and the accompanying chatter grew loud enough for the chief priests and Pilate to unequivocally notice and something had to be done before a riot of the people occurred.  Neither Jesus nor his followers were perceived to be the direct threat, it was the people who loudly wondered whether Jesus could be their coming King.<br />The chief priests and Pilate decided to quickly silence this rumor and settle the people.  On the Friday of Passover, these excited Jews, wondering about a supernatural Passover liberation from God, woke up to find their \\"King of the Jews\\" nailed to a cross outside the city.  And so it ended.  <br />The utter shock of the crucifixion of this peaceful prophet on the part of his followers led them to the scriptures.  In them they became convinced that the crowds were right:  this man was indeed the King of Israel and would soon return, bringing judgment to the world and freeing the people of God.  They preached the message, many believed, and a new religion was born.<br />Fredriksen has written a wonderful book.  I recommend it highly.  Her chapter on the crucifixion is so well done and is such a beautiful narration of a compelling and emotional human drama, my spine was chilled and I too, like the crowd, was \\"astonished\\".  You must read this.	2003-08-28
US	50432075	R2UZZBF1VQGNU7	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	1	23	58	N	N	The only apologetic book you'll need is the bible itself	There is no need to consult heavily researched scholarly works and read endless opinions from \\"experts\\" carrying on about the authenticity of the scriptures.<br />The only book you need is the bible itself.  Read it from cover to cover.  You'll be shocked at what it actually says.  I was once a Christian until I really truly read this so-called holy book.<br />You'll read about...<br />A talking serpent who entices a woman who is altogether unsurprised that a reptile can speak human language to eat a fruit that god has forbidden.<br />An angry god who decides to drown every living creature (man, woman, child, animals, birds, etc.) because he regretted making humankind.<br />A talking donkey who rebukes its owner because he is actually doing what god has instructed him to do but then grows angry at it later.  (Num 22:20-31)<br />God ordering the Hebrews to stone and burn an entire family and their livestock for the disobedience of one man (Joshua 7)<br />God accepting the human sacrifice of a man's only daughter he has pledged to god. (Judges 11)<br />God instructing the Hebrews to kill every man but to take the women and children as \\"booty\\" in Canaan. (Deut. 20: 13-15)<br />God specifically ordering wars of annihilation (Deut 20: 16-18)<br />God threatening the Hebrews with every awful disease and pestilence imaginable for disobedience (28: 15-68), to include:  wasting disease, inflammation, fever; boils, sores, tumors; madness, blindness, confusion; boils from head to toe; women eating their infant children and placenta; every sort of disease and disaster not mentioned (just to cover all the bases I suppose)<br />God condoning a woman driving a tent peg through a man's head (Judges 4:20-24)<br />God killing 50,070 men \\"with a great slaughter\\" for looking in the ark of the covenant (1 Sam 6:19)<br />On to the New Testament for more absurdities and contradictions...<br />God impregnates a human woman (Luke 1:34-5)<br />Matt: Jesus is born before herod the great dies,which was 4BCE<BR>Luke: He is born during the Syrian census which was in 6CE<br />Matt: Jesus is born in Bethlehem in a house, lives there 2 years (herod kills all under 2), flees to Egypt, then moves to Nazareth<BR>Luke: He is born in a manger and returns to his home Nazareth about 8 days later, no flight to Egypt<br />John the Baptist knows who Jesus is in Matt 3:13, forgets by Matt 11:2<br />Sickness and illness are largely caused by demon possession<br />Jesus allows demons to enter 2,000 pigs, which then run into a lake and drown themselves (mark 5:1-16).  <br />Jesus says he did not come to abolish Law (matt 5:17)<BR>Paul says Jesus abolished Law (Ephesians 2:15)<BR>Jesus curses those who teach others not to follow Law (matt 5:19)<BR>Paul says Law is a curse and need not be followed (gal 3:13)<BR>Jesus tells disciples to teach everything he commanded (matt 28:20)<BR>Paul says he was personally given the gospel by jesus (gal 1:12)<BR>But Paul never teaches anything Jesus ever taught on earth<BR>Jesus said the kingdom of God would come very soon (mark 9:1) it didn't.<br />Before crucifixion, Jesus is anguished to point of death in garden of Gethsemane, in matt, mark, luke<BR>In john, he is calm in control<BR>Jesus is betrayed by judas in matt, mark, luke<BR>Jesus basically turns himself in john<BR>At his trial Jesus says to high priest:<BR>\\"you will see the son of man coming on the clouds of heaven\\" (mark)<BR>\\"from now on, you will see the son of man coming on the clouds of heaven\\" (matt)<BR>\\"from now on, the son of man will be seated at the right hand of god\\" (luke)<BR>\\"my kingdom is not of this world\\" (john, to pilate)<BR>understood in theological context, these sayings are radically different and irreconcilable<br />The week leading up to crucifixion, people hail Jesus at his entry, hang on his every word in temple, are astonished by him, chief priests are afraid to arrest him because of the people; however at his trial, they suddenly do a 180 and clamor forhis crucifixion, the whole crowd saying \\"his blood be on us and our children\\" (Matt)<br />When jesus dies many saints rise from dead, sit in their tombs for 2 days then walk around Jerusalem (matt 27: 52-3).  <br />After his resurrection:<BR>Jesus instructs disciples to go to galilee to see him and they go (matt 28:10, 16)<BR>but, in luke/acts, Jesus appears to disciples in Jerusalem and orders them not to leave the city (luke 24:13, 33, 36, 49; acts 1:4)<BR>Jesus gives disciples the spirit on easter (john 20:22)<BR>but in acts, jesus gives the spirt on Pentecost, 50 days later<BR>These are only the main ones; there are dozens of contradictions in resurrection stories.<br />Risen Jesus appears and disappears randomly, eats food (I suppose he digests it and needs the bathroom?), rises to heaven (where?  Its at least 14B light years away, he's only 2,000 light years up by now), is sitting on a throne.  One wonders, what does he eat up there, is there a bathroom?<br />God wants everyone to be saved, but he purposely lies to unbelievers so they wont be (2 thes 2:11,12)<br />The entire universe (some 200 billion galaxies) will suddenly disappear with a big noise (2 peter 3:10,11)<br />And the biggest absurdity of all....<BR>Jesus is coming to punish everyone who doesn't believe all this (2 thes 1:7-9) and most of humanity (80%?) will spend eternity in a lake of fire in agony and torture (and you thought 9/11 was bad!)<br />It's time to face the inescapable truth:  the bible is an ancient book of mythology, stories, and poetry.  Some of it beautiful, inspiring; some of it repulsive to human reason.  They are only stories.<br />Jesus did not rise from the dead.  He is not coming back.	2003-08-13
US	50432075	R11F2XNRXJMSSP	077351144X	799787191	The Zoroastrian Faith: Tradition and Modern Research	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Excellent, fascinating summary of Zoroastrianism	This is an excellent description of the Zoroastrian faith.  It begins with Zoroaster himself, dating his lifetime most probably and providing a compelling history of the man who ultimately had a tremendous influence on Western culture far greater than he could ever imagine.  I believe it safe to say that he had more influence than Jesus himself, given the fact that the Zoroastrian world-view was subsequently adopted by a large contingent of ancient Jews, including Jesus, and ultimately spread around the world by Christianity and Islam.   <br />The history of the faith itself is then presented, along with key scriptures, teachings, and rituals.  This book is excellent and truly fascinating reading.  The Zoroastrian faith was far ahead of its time and represented an incredible philosophical advance in the ancient world that would have been completely foreign to most of the world's inhabitants but very familiar to you and I.  The attractiveness of its beliefs could not be opposed even by the strictness of the Judaic world-view.  In a remarkable way, Christianity and Islam represent the triumph of Zoroastrian ideas, and I found myself strangely saddened that this religion is near extinction.  There is an inspiring grandeur to this faith as presented here.<br />The book is well written, absolutely fascinating, balanced, and a quick read.  I recommend it highly.	2003-08-13
US	50432075	R2AU6SWQWL651Q	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	2	11	16	N	N	Very weak argumentation and reasoning	I suppose that the target audience is they who are already committed believers. Given it's very poor reasoning, circular logical, and simplistic analysis I don't think this will convince one serious skeptic. When I was a born-again fundamentalist I think this book may have given me some comfort from skeptical inquiry.  I am an apostate, a living example of de-conversion. For those Christians who don't think it's possible, it definitely is and it does happen. And lest you think otherwise, I was indeed a genuine Christian, having had strong faith, a born again experience, and a sincere love for God. There were always things about the faith that bothered me but I dismissed them because I knew that I FELT God in my life.<br />Then I educated myself. I learned about the sciences, history, the history of religion. Then I re-evaluated the claims of Christianity. A long, long story made short: it doesn't hold up to the scrutiny of knowledge, reason, and logic. I studied the Bible front to back and sought to make sense of it in light of what I knew of the world and the history of the universe. I studied it for internal consistency, for historical reliability, and for conformance to what we know empirically and objectively from the sciences. I was surprised at how easily and quickly the Bible failed on all three grounds, and further surprised at the gratuitous violence committed in the book in the name of God. I couldn't believe I had never seen this before. How do Christians justify this? How can they know God is good if he commands and sanctions such evil behavior? The answer I got was basically God is God; he is good because he says he is, he can do whatever he pleases and still be good. And I realized how illogical, unreasonable and intellectually bankrupt the Christian faith is. Most of its arguments are circular and are cop-outs.<br />The biographies of Jesus do not stand up to scrutiny, despite what Craig Blomberg and Lee Strobel want you to believe. The only four biographies that we have are clearly not eyewitness accounts; that much is clear from a careful reading of them.  They were written from oral tradition that was handed down from eyewitnesses for decades before being written between c. 65 CE and 100 CE.  They often contradict one another, contradicting one another in major events such as chronology and place and in the details of Jesus' life. When the synoptics agree, they often agree word for word, demonstrating copying not independence.  Textual analysis has demonstrated beyond a reasonable doubt that Mark was written first and both Matthew and Luke copied from Mark for their narrative. The ascribed authorship is only a second century tradition, not supported by the documents internally or analytically. Q is dismissed as a hypothesis only in this book, without revealing how well reasoned and supported it is.  That Matthew and Luke have produced two sets of teachings of Jesus, both of which are presented in nearly the same order and in many cases using the exact same wording even though they are both translating into Greek the original Aramaic sayings is very convincing evidence for Q's one-time existence.  Many evangelicals have even admitted the strong case for Q.  One of the simplest tests of historicity is independent, internally and externally consistent biographies of an individual. The gospels fail on all counts. They also have not been reliably preserved for us, prior to the fourth century anyway. They were modified, redacted, changed multiple times. The additions to the resurrection account in both Mark and John attest to this. It's also present at the end of Matthew, which ends with a Trinitarian baptism despite the consistent practice of baptizing in Jesus' name only throughout Acts.  It is NOT possible to be an intelligent, informed person and believe the gospels are eyewitness accounts written by the authors claimed.<br />The chapter entitled \\"Scientific Evidence\\":  are we to take this seriously?  There isprecious little in the gospels that can be corroborated scientifically, in the face of spectacular miracles, the dead rising, people levitating and appearing out of thin air, and flying angels.  Archaeological evidence does not corroborate the gospels. The fact that Jesus existed, preached in Galilee, and was crucified in Jerusalem are not up for serious debate. Archeology only demonstrates that the environment that these things occurred in was fairly accurately portrayed: it says nothing about the multiple supernatural claims within the book itself.<br />The chapter on psychological evidence was really amusing:  the simplistic lord, liar, lunatic approach. Of course this is a false dichotomy since there are multiple options that exist besides these three. No answer is given to the clear evidence stretching from the first gospel of Mark to the last, John that the life of Jesus, his claims, and his divine status become greatly embellished over time. The divine claims did not come from Jesus, as Mark and Q demonstrate; they evolved after his death amongst his followers. The circumstantial evidence of Jesus' resurrection only proves that there was a belief that Jesus rose from the dead, not that he actually did. We need multiply attested, consistent, non-contradictory historical documents to demonstrate this. The four gospels are so inconsistent in their resurrection and appearance accounts that any attempt to reconcile them is doomed to failure.<br />Paul in 1 Corinthians 15 talks about a distinctly spiritual resurrection. The gospel of Mark tells no appearance stories, Matthew a very brief one, Luke and John more elaborate ones. What we have here is a growing myth that is getting more fantastic with the passage of time. Paul also speaks about an appearance to Peter, the twelve, 500 brethren, and all the apostles. That's a lot of people, yet the only eyewitness we have of this is Paul himself, who claims that his was a vision more than a physical appearance. Doesn't this sound fishy to you?<br />This book is very poor argumentation.	2003-08-08
US	50432075	R1XE1IY1X6TDG4	019512474X	119454775	Jesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium	Books	4	126	138	N	N	Good Introduction to Historical Jesus	This is an effective, well-written, and concise presentation of who the person of Jesus of Nazareth who walked and preached in 1st century Palestine actually was.  There are a lot of historical Jesus works out there and it is easy to get lost and the author makes a great point that many scholars simply mold Jesus into a person of their time and place:  a 60's radical, a social reformer, a magician, etc.  Ehrman asserts that traditional scholarship since the 19th century is correct:  Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet who was expecting the present world to end in the very near future and be replaced by the kingdom of God.  His healings, exorcisms, and exortations of radical, self-less love and care for the poor, destitute, and forgotten (the dregs of society), demonstrated that Jesus firmly held to the belief that God was a compassionate, just Judge who was going to turn the social, political, and religious order upside down in this new kingdom.  This view is consistent with the traditional Jewish view of God, that primarly viewed Him as concerned with justice and righteousness that was most particularly demonstrated in an individual's/society's care for the widow and the orphan and fits nicely with the apocalyptic context of Jesus' day:  people expected and believed God to radically alter history at any time.  Jesus appears to have been non violent in this view, he didn't seek to effect the kingdom of God via a people's revolution but instead expected it to come about via a supernatural miracle of God.  These arguments are well demonstrated and persuasive.<br />Caution, however, is called for in some of these assertions.  Ehrman too quickly dismisses the work of more recent scholars who have discovered new insights to Jesus from careful study of the Dead Sea Scrolls and the study of Church father writings that shed some doubt on some of these conclusions.  He flat out gives no consideration to Crossan's views that Jesus was primarly concerned with ethical eschatologyand not apocalyptic eschatology.  Although some of Crossan's arguments aren't particularly strong, I find it generally true that Jesus was ethical as well as apocalyptic.  It could very well be that Jesus believed that the establishment and/or growth of a renewed ethic among the  people would hasten the apocalyptic end of the present state and help to usher in the new kingdom which would, after all essentially be an ethical kingdom.  I find no support, however, for Crossan's belief that Jesus was a social reformer with a clear socio-economic plan.  There was no such plan:  God Himself was going to rule and plan in the new kingdom.<br />Ehrman does not give enough consideration to Jesus as zealous revolutionary either.  Although there is no Jewish or pagan sources of the time to indicate this, the actions of Jesus' first followers reveal zealot tendencies.  Acts narrates the immense trouble the apostle Paul had on his second visit to Jerusalem after he was seized in the temple by \\"the Jews\\".  In his defense (Acts 22) before these obviously zealous Jews who, incidentally plot to kill him in the next chapter, he talks about his vision of Jesus and his Damascus conversion.  The crowd listens patiently even as he relates what Jesus has said to him and the events subsequent to his vision.  They violently react, however, as soon as Paul mentions his mission to the Gentiles.  These are no ordinary Jews, they are Nazarenes, Jewish Christians, this much is clear.  So, if Jesus was completely non-violent, why were his first Jewish followers so zealous to the point of plotting to kill Paul?  Of course this doesn't agree with Jesus' \\"love your enemies\\" but it is highly curious.<br />One other point.  He accepts the gospel's claims that Jesus' family rejected him during his life.  Further investigation doesn't support this however.  His brother James was the undisputed leader of the Jerusalem assembly after Jesus' crucifixion.  I find it hard to believe that having only become abeliever after Jesus' resurrection that James would be chosen to lead the believers after having not spent time with Jesus while on earth.  It seems much more likely that James was always intended to be the leader and was in fact the disciple called James.  This suggests that James' brother John, another disciple, was also Jesus' brother.  Mary's second husband after Joseph's death is accepted as Simon bar Clopas, who was one of the disciples Jesus first appeared to after his resurrection in Luke, and is most likely the son of Simon the \\"Zealot\\", another of Jesus' disciples and half-brother.  There is good evidence to believe that Jesus' family played a quite prominent role in his ministry during and after his life.  Also interesting is that his brother Simon was a zealot.  Their is a clear pattern of obfuscation in the gospels when it comes to certain individuals, especially regarding family members of Jesus.  This indicates that later writers and redactors purposely sought to downplay his family for theological reasons.<br />Even though I disagree with some of the conclusions of this book, it is a very good presentation of classical beliefs on historical Jesus.  If you are beginning to study this subject, I recommend it highly as one of your first readings.	2003-08-03
US	50432075	RGYBGZ2TZHGVR	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	3	18	27	N	N	A personal testimony with some historical explanation	This book is OK; it depends on what you're looking for.  It's mostly a testimony of Pagels' life history and relationship to Christianity.  In that regard it is somewhat interesting, but not as scholarly as one might think.  In it, she examines the Gospel of Thomas and relates how much of its content is personally satisfying and could be used to reinvigorate traditional Christian faith.  This is more about her personal journey of spiritual enlightenment gained from examining this gospel.  One of the most interesting parts of the book is where she defends her position that the Gospel of John was written specifically to refute the Gospel of Thomas.  This is a pretty strong argument and I found myself giving it considerable thought.  This motive could very well be responsible for our knowing Thomas as the doubting apostle who is portrayed as not having the same authority the other apostles had.  It's becoming pretty clear to me that all the gospels were written for similar reasons and thus can't be trusted as reliable historical documents.<br />She briefly describes the history of the selection of the New Testament canon and explains the process whereby some documents were accepted while others were not.  She also includes a chapter containing a cursory history of the Church up to the time of Constantine.  This is useful but very high level and not extremely informative.<br />As a personal testimony this book is interesting; as a work of scholarship it's weak.	2003-07-30
US	50432075	RIAJYTIQ5NBW	0195067886	640731658	The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries: Cosmology and Salvation in the Ancient World	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Absolutely riveting explanation of Mithraic origins!	Ulansey writes with such contagious enthusiasm that it is almost impossible to not share in his excitement as he unfolds his theory on the origins of Mithraism.  This author clearly loves what he does and he engages the reader in a writing style that is not merely explanatory, but is exceptionally captivating and addicting.  He writes not as a distant scholar, although his work is exceptional scholarship, he is a nearby instructor.  On many occasions I said to myself \\"wow, amazing!\\".  <br />Though this work is short it is a complete and exceptional explanation of Mithraic origins.  Describing the various iconography of this mystery religion, and the beliefs and intellectual environment of its birthplace of Tarsus, he effectively explains how the discovery of the rotation of the cosmic equator (known to us as the wobbling of the earth around its axis) that results in the movement of the familiar constellations led to a new astral religion that was extremely attractive and cohesive.  The amazing 2nd century B.C.E. discovery by Hipparchus of the rotating cosmic equator presaged a new religion of a cosmic god that was exceedingly more powerful than any god imagined before him.  A god that was powerful enough to move the entire heavens at will, that ruled the cosmic sphere, and had the ability to usher in entirely new ages of history.  One can see echoes of Pauline Christianity in such ideas:  Paul's cosmic Christ has exactly the same features and power.  All of the iconography that is found in the ancient mithraeum (sp?) makes perfect sense in light of his extraordinary theory.  One often wonders how ancient peoples could hold to beliefs that to the modern mind seem so mysterious and peculiar, but Ulansey essentially takes the reader back to the time period in question and relates how an earth-shattering discovery of how the heavens operated could easily lead to the founding of this new religion.  Considering the relative simplicity of these people's astonomical understanding, it is easy to see how this could happen.  The mystery of how Mithraism could originate and spread becomes obvious to the reader in the light of this knowledge.<br />Ulansey focuses, as the title suggests, on the origins and not the practices and theology of ancient Mithraism.  He only briefly alludes to some of the practices and belief systems.  I found myself wanting to know more; most especially regarding the substance and significance of the new life imagined by the practice of the killing of the bull and the particular beliefs regarding the afterlife.  The belief that the Milky Way contained the spirits of those entering and exiting this world is also fascinating.  <br />Really an outstanding book and extremely engaging; I read it in one sitting.	2003-07-30
US	50432075	R38ZYPDB6O7SV2	1573929778	930321021	The Ghost in the Universe: God in Light of Modern Science	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Dares to say what few others do	A physicist tackles the ultimate question:  is there any reason to believe in any type of god?  Bringing together and harmonizing insights in the fields of philosophy, biology, physics, the brain sciences, history, human morality, and scripture revelation, the author argues that what is becoming more obvious as we advance in these realms of knowledge is that there is no evidence whatsoever that there is a superior being presiding over the universe.  His argument is clear and well presented.  The distinct advantage that this book has over others that attempt to address this same question is that it evaluates it from so many divergent perspectives.  Not all of this material is easy reading, but it is all insightful and though provoking.  <br />Although there continue to be scientists, philosophers, and historians that believe in some sort of transcendent being, the details of these disciplines are revealing that if there is a god, he is certainly not the God humans have come to assume:  law-giving, personal, imminent, and omni-benevolent.  One of the boldest assertions herein is the admission of the fact that evolutionary biology has taught us that the universe is indifferent, disinterested, and amoral.  While liberal Christians and believing scientists struggle to reconcile evolution with divine revelation, the stark truth is that the idea of a personal, caring God is completely incompatible with the indifference and randomness of evolution.  Quantum physics has taught us that the reality that we are accustomed to where every effect has a cause that precedes it is not the reality in the sub-microscopic world.  In that world events happen without a cause, particles and anti-particles randomly pop into existence from a seething energy field before quickly annihilating one another.  The ultimate beginning of the point-particle universe prior to the Big Bang had no cause, it just was.  This is very illuminating material.  After all, which is more likely:  a seething energy field behaving randomly that 14B years ago inflated the universe we find ourselves in or an eternal, loving, personal, and intelligent Being?  Everything in our universe and world goes from simple to complex, not the other way around.  The author admits that this is not for the faint of heart.  He acknowledges that this awareness will be viewed by some as liberating, by others as terribly lonely; either way the universe doesn't care.<br />This is great reading, challenging, insightful, thought provoking.  If you're a believer prepare to have your world-view upset.	2003-07-30
US	50432075	R2TTQWLVVYVJ7F	0879755725	637218845	Gospel Fictions	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Wonderful explanation of the New Testament myth	I found this book outstanding for two simple reasons.  One, it explains the origins of a great number of the myths we find in the gospels as being anti-types of Old Testament stories that conform quite convincingly to their previous models.  And secondly, it is short and easy to read; it can be read in a few hours.  <br />Helms doesn't just point out the sometimes obvious and sometimes not-so obvious contradictions among the gospels, but he explains where the myths most likely originated and WHY the details of the individual stories change from one gospel to another.  I didn't agree with him on a few of his explanations, as I was not completely convinced; however, on the whole his arguments are extremely persuasive and very logical.  I had become aware of the absurdity of the stories as well as the contradictions, but only wondered how they had come about.  Now I know, thanks to this book.  I now understand what Paul means when he says in 1 Corinthians that he is revealing the gospel &quot;according to the scriptures&quot;.  <br />The book covers the nativity legends, numerous miracle stories, the crucifixion stories, and the resurrection myths.  Things I had not seen before became obvious to me thanks to its elegant explanation.<br />I rate this book up with Thomas Paine's Age of Reason.  If you find a copy, by all means purchase it.	2003-07-26
US	50432075	R1UT5HEXEJNHX9	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Powerful indictment of theism	Smith offers a very thought provoking argument against the existence of God or gods.  He is a gifted writer and his arguments are organized, logical, and very persuasive.  His arguments break down in the following manner.<br />1. The concept of God & an examination of the Christian God<br />I found this section of the book to be the best.  He argues that the concept of God that we have become familiar with is a complete contradiction in terms.  Before talking about the traits of God he effectively explains how an infinite God cannot have traits, since these would limit his character.  He then lists the various characteristics of God and examines them in detail.  Traits taken for granted become very questionable on careful examination:  immutable, ineffable eternal, omniscient, omnipotent, all loving, all good.  The negative traits (immutable, ineffable, etc.) simply are meaningless since they only describe what God is not, and makes God equivalent to nothing at all.  He then demonstrates how the positive characteristics contradict one another; if God is omniscient then he's not really omnipotent since he can't change the future he sees.  His arguments in this section are extremely persuasive and will provoke intense thought by the reader.  He also looks at the impossibility of a finite being ever being able to comprehend an infinite Being.<br />2. Reason vs. Faith<br />In comparing the vastly different realms of reason and faith, he argues for the supremacy of the former.  This is also extremely persuasive as he shows that a belief that is founded on faith alone is illegitimate.  Reason evaluates that which is empirical, objective, and observable.  Faith, to quote the Bible, is \\"the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen\\".  This is simply absurd since one can never have a conviction of things that can't be seen, measured, or tested.   The unlikely alliance of skepticism and faith are also explained.  Faith requires skepticism as it's predecessor, else why would one need faith?  <br />3. The arguments for God<br />I have to admit this section was the weakest in its examination of the cosmology argument and design argument.  It is still effective and thought provoking, but is a little dated especially on the cosmological argument.  As for design, if the universe requires a Designer how much more does a complex, infinite, incomprehensible God require a Designer himself.<br />The last section examines Christian ethics, particularly that of Jesus.  It's a helpful perspective to consider when examining Jesus' purported teachings.<br />I found this book to be very intellectually stimulating with an addictive writing style.  It's the type of book that is hard to put down and causes one to go back to often.  It has provoked intense thought on my part.  Personally, the best two arguments against the Christian God is the argument from the future and the doctrine of hell.  It is a logical impossibility for God to know what I will do tomorrow, since I have not done it yet and the day has not yet arrived.  How could he possibly know?  On the other hand, if he is able to account for every atomic particle in the universe and calculate exactly where they will go next, then in principle he could calculate exactly what I will do tomorrow and when I will do it.  However, if this is possible then I have absolutely no free will.  On the other hand, the uncertainty of quantum mechanics (worth studying by the skeptic) implies that it is impossible even for God to know the future.  Either way, God is not God.  And the doctrine of hell and eternal punishment for an 80-year lifetime of sin:  that's the most absurd concept I've ever heard in my life.<br />And how could we ever know God, as Smith asks?  Could he reveal even 0.01% of his character and being to us?  What is 0.01% of infinity?  It's infinity.  Infinity itself seems logically absurd to me, whether one speaks of God or of an infinite universe.<br />Definitely worth reading and owning.	2003-07-24
US	50432075	R10SV0LPGAHLZF	0609807986	395300413	The Jesus Mysteries: Was the "Original Jesus" a Pagan God?	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Interesting parallels with many flaws	Freke and Gandy present evidence to support their theory that the Christ Jesus that Western civilization came to believe in was a creation of pagan mythology blending various rites, beliefs, and mythological stories.  They demonstrate the remarkable number of parallels to the Jesus we find in the New Testament to pagan mythologies that preceded or co-existed with him.  There are definitely an astonishing number of them that are worthy of significant investigation and consideration.<br />However, this book is generally poorly written.  The writing style presents lists of similarities, incomplete quotations of outside sources, and assumed linkages followed by exclamation points.  The authors are certain they are uncovering a vast conspiracy here and wish to evoke a sense of complete shock on the part of the reader.  Initially this didn't bother me as I assumed that this style would give way to more thorough scholarship and explanation.  It never did and I grew weary of the logical errors, jumps to conclusions, and incessant use of exclamation points.<br />This book is also riddled with logical fallacies, particularly causal fallacies.  The post hoc fallacy, which posits that since one event follows another then the former caused the latter is committed extensively.  Another is the false analogy where there are multiple comparisons between different pagan mythologies and the story of Christ that are taken piecemeal and assumed that the former was the source of the latter.  However, on examination, the individual pagan mythologies in total bear little resemblance to the New Testament.<br />The complexity of the birth of early Christianity and the subsequent build-up of the New Testament myth cannot be compared piecemeal to individual pagan mythologies that assume causal linkage.  Christianity began as a Jewish sect that because of political and personal forces developed into a full religion that was then layered with mythological elements.  The authors fail to recognizethe complex religious, political, and social environment that this occurred in and essentially ignore these as unimportant outside factors.  In addition, any careful examination of Christian origins requires investigation into the personalities involved in its birth.  This book probes the mind only of Paul and that incompletely.<br />If you like sensationalist conspiracy theories, this is the book for you.  If you are looking for a careful and scholarly examination of Christian origins, skip this one.	2003-07-17
US	50432075	R9T39H21TI96N	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Great summary of the reasons for the Atlantic difference	In this relatively small book, Kagan lucidly explains the reasons why America and Europe seem so at odds today.  This was evidently clear during the run-up to the war in Iraq.  He explains how Europe has built for itself (with immense help from America) a post-historical paradise where laws, diplomacy, and institutions become the primary means of settling disputes and facilitating cooperation among nations.    As Europe has moved into this state, its military prowess has declined significantly at the same time that America's military capabilities have soared.  America doesn't flinch to use force to subdue rogue nations and confront despots around the world while Europe favors bargaining with the same, in the hope that they will adopt reasonable, sensible policies.<br />These two perspectives are worlds apart, and Kagan explains how this came about.  Ironically, Europe's post-historical paradise was large built with American money, support, and direct contribution.  It was America that created the United Nations, delivered the Marshall plan, and encouraged EU integration.  Nations with economic and political ties are less likely to war with one another, dragging American resources in with them.  These things are largely the result of the exporting of the American ideal.  That ideal which values freedom, democracy, the rule of law, peaceful relations, pluralism, and the pursuit of economic growth are decidedly American in nature.  America was borne of Europeans and the Enlightenment, and the spread of these goals around the world and to Europe represent a re-export of enlightenment ideas.  <br />But, in order to preserve stability and order in the world, someone needs to carry a big stick.  Despots like Kim Jong Il (sp?), Saddam Hussein, Ayatollah Kameini, Robert Mugabe, et al. do not value these ideals and occasionally need to be confronted with force.  Europe flinches at the notion, America exercises when necessary.  Europe lacks even the capability to do so, and isapprehensive about such things.  This, according to the author, is the root of the misunderstanding.  America's lack of appreciation for the history and recent modernization of Europe, and Europe's lack of appreciation for the necessary might of America to protect the free world.  Indeed, without the protection of America's nuclear umbrella, Western Europe would not have remained free during the Cold War.  Beyond these differences, however, Europe and America have a tremendous amount in common.  Both value liberty, freedom, democracy, and seek peace and prosperity.  They differ on how to protect these values and ensure the attainment of these common goals.<br />This book doesn't go into much depth, which is its primary weakness but also one of its strengths:  it can be read in one sitting.  For those looking for a brief and sensible explanation why the Atlantic divide seems so wide these days, this book is excellent.  For what it sets out to do, it deserves five stars.	2003-07-17
US	50432075	R3TSJVQQH9ZME8	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	3	65	75	N	N	Decent Introduction to Atheism	This book is easy to read and quite well structured, and the author covers his transition from believer to atheist in a very logical manner.  He approaches the topic in multiple ways, sometimes in the form of a dialogue, other times the presentation of relevant historical evidences, his experiences in \\"coming out\\", how his life has changed since he became a free thinker, etc.  I found it moderately useful, as I am presently making the transition from Christian to agnostic/atheist.  As anyone who has gone through this experience knows, it is a very trying, confusing, and mentally anguishing experience.  When one begins to question what one has traditionally held to as truth, it can be a very devastating, yet at the same time, exhilarating period in life.  I became born again when I was 19 and for a few years was very involved in conservative, evangelical groups.  I had even considered a career in some form of ministry.  My problem, if it can be called such, is that Ive always been an extremely curious person intellectually.  This is what got me into trouble in terms of Christian belief.  My love of science, history, politics, and the individual process of logic and reason eventually resulted in a deep questioning of Christian doctrine and belief.  I have come to formally reject the traditional claims of Christianity:  the virgin birth of Jesus, the supernatural miracles of the Bible, the resurrection, Christs ascension into heaven, and his eventual return.  This is not something that came about easily or quickly.<br />I digress:  back to the book.  What I liked about it was its organization and its summary style structure.  This makes the book good summary, semi-reference material.  The chapters are generally short, comprehensible, and enjoyable.  It encapsulates many of the reasons why non-believers dont believe, and offers a biographical human interest story to go along with.  The layout is such that one neednt read it straight through nor require the entire book to even be read.  Because of its faults I appreciated this quality greatly.  Many of the chapters I found quite helpful, others I had no interest in reading.<br />One fault is its tendency to preach.  Dan is still an evangelist and this comes through his writing style.  I dont find this helpful.  The entire point of being a skeptic and free-thinker is the need to be open-minded, respectful, and appreciative to others views.  I feel that Dan fails to provide this attitude and his tone can be demeaning at times.  He also seems to be on a quest to rid the world of belief in God.  I can understand his reasoning but cant respect this endeavor.  There are many individuals whose entire worlds revolve around a religious belief system and if it is questioned would seriously damage their entire lives.  It is my opinion that there are many who are simply not strong enough to undertake such a radical paradigm shift, and they need the comfort, structure, meaning, and psychosomatic benefits that religion can provide.  An example of Dans over-reaching style is his inclusion of his atheist hymns.  I found this just silly and useless.  <br />It is a good introduction book.  Its historical and philosophical arguments are quite unsophisticated however, and ultimately unsatisfactory.  Any true skeptic and free-thinker will need to go significantly beyond this material.  For those beginning the journey this book can be useful, for those well into the journey, I recommend skipping this book.  This is for the beginner.  For all the reasons discussed I give it 3 stars.<br />For a more thorough undertaking of the philosophical, scientific, and historical aspects of atheism/skepticism, I recommend the following:<br />Philosphical:  Atheism:  The Case Against God (can't remember the author)<BR>Scientific:  The Blind Watchmaker by Richard Dawkins<BR>Historical:  Jesus, the Brother of James by Robert Eisenman	2003-07-14
US	50432075	R2F2UK1U11RYSJ	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Challenging and thought provoking!	This book is excellent.  The author is interested in encouraging humanity to bring together it's various forms of knowledge and theory in order to build a better world.  It's extremely enthusiastic, reflecting a very positive and enlightenment-era perspective.  He posits that all studies of science from bioloy to economics to politics is united by a common system of underlying laws whose understanding is within the reach of human reason.  He believes that the attainment of this understanding is inevitable and useful.  It makes logical sense, and I personally can see examples of it in every day life.  Evolutionary biology has explained to us how unplanned, blind changes can result in remarkable complexity.  The study of the function of free markets has demonstrated the exact same thing.  As individuals pursue their own benefits, desires, and success in a free market economy order emerges out of chaos and growing complexity develops.  <br />One of the most fascinating aspects of his arguments was on human nature and the brain sciences and I read several sections multiple times.  The explanation of the differences between empiricists and transcendentalists was in accord with the field of biology, if not theology and provoked instense personal thought on my part.  There are obviously much more sophisticated theist apologies out there the author doesn't examine that the reader should.  I found it extremely curious that Wilson tends toward Deism after having presented his material and rationale.  The idea of a deity that is a conscious person (which Deism implies) seems at odds with his arguments.<br />Edward O. Wilson is a consumate intellectual and his writing is both challenging and fascinating.  You will probably want to read several sections a few times due to both of these qualities.  Is he too optimistic on human nature and too enthusiastic for the future?  Perhaps.  Is he onto something significant?  I would say most definitely yes.	2003-07-14
US	50432075	R3LW06NB7GVKCM	0393047644	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Democracy doesn't equal freedom!	This book is very good.  It examines the state of democracy and freedom today and argues convincingly that the two don't necessarily go hand in hand.  Many people fail to recognize that the United States was not founded as a democracy, but a constitutional republic.  The founding fathers were very wise men who understand the difference between the two and crafted a constitution that sought to prevent run-away democracy from triumphing.  This book returns to those reasons and the history behind those reasons to effectively demonstrate the superiority of this original form.  Too often we hear today of un-democratic principles and the supposed superior wisdom of the \\"majority\\".  This is leading to some unfortunate developments in freedom in this country and abroad, and an obsession with polling data.  As a California resident, I am all too familiar with the sorry state of democracy in my own state that has resulted in an almost un-governable situation.  Since the publication of this book, I can add the ridiculous populist effort to recall Governor Davis to the list of dysfunctions.  Isn't this why we have elections!? <br />The author examines the history of freedom and it's particular development over centuries in England as primarily the result of evolving common law and contrasts this with continental Europe's historical practice of civil law.  He effectively demonstrates the superiority of the former and it's impact over the whole globe.  He rescues the idea of liberal democracy and reclaims the \\"liberal\\" word for what it rightly means.  He also examines freedom from an Islamic perspective and provides an argument reconciling the concepts of Islam and freedom.  This argument is fairly convincing, but not thorough.  He then proceeds into his apology by examining the state of politics in California and concludes with proposals to rescue freedom.  <br />His main solution, if it can be called so, is more appointed bodies like the Supreme Court and the Federal Reserve.I happen to agree in principle with these suggestions, most especially when it comes to tax and environmental policy.  In principle, this is an excellent idea.  The see-sawing of tax policy from one president to the next results in economic distortions, negative politics, and extreme partisan bickering.  One president cuts taxes the next raises, and the next cuts.  This is no way to run a modern economy.  Tax policy is extremely complex with significant long-term consequences for everyone's well being.  It needs to be approached with much more care than it presently is.  In reality, however, I don't see how this can ever happen.  Taxes are politically sensitive, and it is the primary means of political posturing between the two dominant parties today.  Take that away from them, and what do they have?  They won't give this up easily.  The American people would be very skeptical to this idea in my opinion.  Accountability to the voters also would need to be ensured.  <br />The book is very thought provoking and should be read more widely than it has been.	2003-07-14
US	50432075	RTJXW8JY94YFR	0062505858	234986281	The Mythmaker: Paul and the Invention of Christianity	Books	4	37	46	N	N	Very compelling, with a few caveats	This book is extremely enjoyable and well written.  I had no problem finishing it in two days.  Maccoby presents very compelling arguments for making his case, and his evidence comes mostly from the Bible itself.  He presents very reasonable explanations for his conclusions:  Jesus was a Pharisee, contrary to the presentation of the Gospels; Jesus and his first followers believed him to be the Jewish messiah in the traditional understanding thus the future king of Israel; that Jesus in no way abrogated the Torah and was in fact very Jewish; that Jesus was crucified not for religious blasphemy but for political sedition; and finally that Paul essentially created Christianity by transforming the historical person of Jesus into a savior God and mixing together elements of Gnosticism, classic mystery religions popular in the Greco-Roman world, and historical Judaism.  <br />In presenting these arguments, he addressed several strange inconsistencies in the New Testament that in hindsight are obvious.  Such as why would the Jews be clamoring for Jesus' crucifixion when he had purportedly done such great things among them?  Why would the Romans care a wit about what the Jews wanted to do and carry through with it?  Why would the Pharisees oppose Jesus but then show great leniency to his followers after his death?  Why are there discrepancies between how Acts portrays the conflict between the Jerusalem church and Paul versus how Paul's epistles portray it?  And why does Paul's complex theology show no traces of Jesus' earthly teachings and vice versa?  It also always seemed a bit strange to me that Paul always talked about \\"my gospel\\".  That claim makes sense in light of this book.  <br />There are however a few points I was unconvinced on, or wished the author had spent more time explaining.  His assertion that Paul single-handedly \\"created\\" Christianity seems a bit too simple and I don't see how one man with only a few cohorts could establish a religion so different fromwhat Maccoby portrays Jesus' intentions as being.  Even if he could, I don't see what Paul's motivation for doing so would be.  His dramatic turn around after the Damascus vision requires a more thorough explanation than simply Paul's frustration with Judaism and subsequent desire for power.  His presentation of Paul's trial in Jerusalem was credible, but not fully developed or analyzed.  He also does not address the fact that Jesus' followers in Jerusalem apparently did believe that he had risen from the dead.  What exactly was the nature of this belief; was it a quasi-spiritual resurrection such as Paul seems to indicate in 1 Corinthians, a flesh and blood resurrection as indicated in the Gospels, or was it not an actual resurrection but merely a return from heaven to take his place as King of Israel?  It's hard to justify the latter, given that every messiah was discredited as inauthentic after his physical death.  Why was Jesus different?  Furthermore, how does one explain the epistle largely credited to Peter that has very Pauline ideas, from the resurrection to eschatology?  Did Peter convert to Paul's Christianity?  How did Peter come to be in Rome and become the first pope of Paul's church?<br />Despite my reservations and remaining questions, this book was an excellent read, highly stimulating, very illuminating.  I recommend it heartily.	2003-07-10
US	50432075	R23ETHVSP6KIL6	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	20	24	N	N	Great, hearty fiction	Is this supposed to scare people to Jesus? Or just put them into stitches from laughing so hard?? Anyone who believes this stuff needs to have their head examined.<br />Instead of this drivel, I recommend something that will genuinely challenge you:  The Age of Reason by Thomas Paine, a hero of the American Revolution.	2003-07-08
US	50432075	R11LRGPW2Q41HH	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent explanation of how evolution works	This is an excellent book that is lucidly written and very convincing, and it was the first comprehensive and philosophically consistent presentation of Darwinism that I've read.  Before this book I had not researched the theory of evolution to the point of truly understanding the evidence and how it was supposed to be working.  After I read this book, I understood, and the evidence for evolution and the understanding of natural selection finally came together in my mind.  His philosophical and descriptive arguments are clearly organized and described in a very logical manner.<br />His presentation and refutation of improper understandings of evolution, such as saltationism and Lamarckism along with his excellent description of natural selection effectively removes the most common misunderstandings that people have of evolution.  He then proceeds to explain the two essentials of the theory, genetic change at the molecular level and natural selection.  The first is blind and random, the latter is most definitely not and is why we see the incredible complexity among living organisms that we do.  Genetic changes that \\"naturally\\" aid an organism over time, under changing conditions and competition for resources, to successfully live longer or reproduce more offspring will be favored over those changes that do not and will spread through the population.  This is natural selection at work.  As explained by Dawkins this is an extremely slow process from the human perspective which is used to dealing with months, years, and lifetimes less than a century.  Given enough time, these effects of evolution will lead to increasing diversity and complexity in nature.<br />He then describes the effects of the arms race and sexual selection on species.  The arms race is responsible for the continuous advancement of both predatory skills and the ability to evade predators.  The result is the unremitting escalation of the of the predator/prey relationship among species.  On the other hand, sexual selection is responsible for what we would consider the more odd aspects of species morphology and behavior.  Both concepts, as with the prior material are explained very clearly and thoroughly.  <br />Dawkins is a gifted writer and presents his material in such a compelling and fascinating manner that I could hardly put the book down.  It is extremely thought provoking.  This book was my official introduction to the details of evolution and lit a fire within me that continues to this day of a deep curiosity to the history of the evolution of life on earth.  It is an excellent introduction on evolution and is great for those who don't understand it.  Many people just can't see how evolution can produce such complexity and appearance of design in living organisms.  This book describes how it can, and if you find yourself in that state of mind, I recommend this book.  <br />The weakest argument regarding evolution is Dawkin's evolution of species within his computer program.  This was extremely unconvincing to me, as a 2-D world made of bits of zeros and ones on a computer screen has very little in common with the 3-D world of chemistry and biology we inhabit.  On close scrutiny the analogy falls apart, as most such analogies do.<br />Dawkins is also an avowed atheist, and can be a little overbearing in his overt and covert linking of evolution and atheism.  For this reason, those of faith in a supreme Being will be greatly challenged even possibly upset by this material.  I was challenged in that regard immensely, and although I consider myself to be agnostic (largely, though not exclusively as the result of the study of evolution) Dawkin's arguments certainly have contributed to my atheistic tendencies.   But don't let his position lead you to believe that evolutionists are necessarily atheists, many are not, and both sides have good reasons for their respective positions.  I believe the question to be ultimately insoluble, although atheism is well supported scientifically, philosophically, and historically in my opinion.  <br />The Blind Watchmaker is very engaging and is an excellent read.	2002-02-13
US	50432075	R2ETIQ6R6DPDTE	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	2	35	66	N	N	Am I missing something about the debate?	Things we know to be true - <br />The earth is approx. 4.5 billion years old.<br />There is evidence of life on earth as far back as 3.5 billion years ago.<br />The fossil record shows a progressive and growing complexity of life forms, most of which are now extinct.<br />DNA is the basis for all life on earth and is subject to mutation (copying errors, duplications, omissions) in its reproduction<br />The change in the genetic code of the DNA results in progeny being different than its parent commensurate with that change<br />Those changes in the DNA can change the morphology of an organism.<br />We have witnessed these so called &quot;micro-evolutionary&quot; phenomena happen in our lifetimes and is the explanation for why<BR>we witness ring species of birds very near to each other that have slight differences.  It's also why we have different breeds of dogs.<br />It logically follows that if particular &quot;breeds&quot; of a species were to become isolated over a long period of time <BR>the respective DNA changes in the population would continue to accumulate independent of one another<BR>such that they will grow more and more dissimilar.  In enough time, they could be considered different species.  After all, it's just DNA.<br />Changes in an species DNA that prove deleterious will be weeded out through natural selection, due to its rendering of the organism less fit to survive or reproduce.<BR>Changes in a species DNA that aid in survival or reproduction will have a natural tendency to increase in frequency in the population.<BR>This is logically inevitable, since a beneficial DNA change will enable more of those organisms with that DNA change to survive predation and reproduce more copies of itself.<br />The fossil record indicates several primate species over the past 5 million years that indicate, with the passage of time, larger and larger brain<BR>sizes and a closer and closer resemblance to modern humans.<br />Either these things are true or they are not.<BR>If they aren't, then we can't trust reality and observation, period.<BR>If they are, then evolution as a theory has a good chance of being true.<BR>Note, I don't say it proves evolution; but lends strong support to it as a theory.<BR>Unless God created every species out of thin air.<br />Am I missing something here?	2002-02-11
