US	50436062	R2LFYO3ZKB7T8D	0345396553	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Decent build up for a series	The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara is a tale in three parts. It begins with the Ilse Witch, peaks with Antrax, and winds down with Morgawr. Of the three, I believe Antrax is the best, with Morgawr being the weakest link. The Ilse witch ranks in between, as a masterful work of fiction.<BR>A body has been foudn in the Blue Divide, which spurs Walker Bo, the last Druid (from the Heritage of Shannara series) to take on a journey across the Blue Divide to find the books of magic (don't worry, I have given nothing away here). The party is assembled of Wing Riders, Elves, Rovers, a Seer and a couple of lads from Leah. Along the way, they must solve three puzzles and learn a lot about who they might become.<BR>Of the three books in this series, this is, by far, the best in character development. While not as good as Antrax, it far outweighs Morgawr, which feels a bit rushed and convenient. The story is very well developed, and provides the readers with a few twists that keep will keep the pages turning.	2002-12-05
US	50436062	R391LDUWKHTJ0F	0345435729	798168467	Morgawr (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 3)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Rather weak ending to the series	I am an avid fan of Terry Brooks. I have purchased nearly everything he has published in hardback, minus film adaptations, since he published the Sword of Shannara in the late seventies. It is, therefore, with great sorrow that I give this book less than a sterling review.<BR>Overall, the characters of this series are very compelling. It makes reading the epic rather easy and keeps up the readers interest.<BR>The problem is that much of the book is predictable, with some elements being almost condescending. The epic journey of the hero is largely reduced to formula, as if the author needed to find a way to finish the series, but could not figure out a way to say it in a reasonable amount of words.<BR>Some of the character interaction is a bit too stilted, and plot points turn without much motivation or development. As the reader has invested quite a bit of time getting to this point, it is forgiveable to an extent.<BR>If you have already invested time in the first few books of this series, you will do well to finish it off. The ending gives a lot of promise to what will undoubtably unfold in the next book Terry writes (due out this fall). If you have never read a Terry Brook's book (unlikely if you are considering this as your first work), you would do well to skip this, at least for now, and move back to the Sword of Shannara and read all the way through the Talisman of Shannara (the fourth book in the Heritage of Shannara series).<BR>Morgawr is not a back work of Fantasy, but Terry Brooks has done so much better with his series in the past that it is really disappointing that this one had few of the surprises and twists of his earlier works.	2002-12-05
US	50436062	R24ASGDBY00FLD	0345397665	106893307	Antrax (Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best of this series	While pieces of this book are a bit too predictable, it is one of the better works in this series. The blending of science and magic hints that Terry Brooks is going to head somewhere completely unpredictable when he extends his franchise beyond this series. <BR>The story deals with the continuing voyage of the Jerle Shannara, which has traveled the Blue Divide to the land of Parkasia. Within the walls of Castledown, the party must find a way to defeat the being known as Antrax.<BR>With the build up of the series out of the way, this book deals more with the twists and turns that make Terry Brooks one of the finest Fantasy writers of our generation. While the overall outcomes of the story follows the traditional hero's journey, who survives and the means of solving the puzzles require turning a lot of pages.<BR>Antrax is a very compelling story, which is likely to keep you up for at least one or two nights, anxiously awaiting the outcome.	2002-12-05
US	50436062	R2LDYL8KPMCU60	0735614237	278506734	Microsoft® ADO.NET (Core Reference) (Developer Reference)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Very good book on ADO.NET	I read through the entire book over the course of about a day and a half. It is nice to find a technical book that is enjoyable to read. <br />This is currently the best ADO.NET book on the market. While there are a couple of areas where I believe some other books have provided better coverage (concurrency handling, for example), I know of no book that covers the whole of ADO.NET as well as this tome.<br />The flow of the book is very nice. Starting you out with DataConnections, the book logically moves through commands, readers, adapters and DataSets, which it further breaks down into its constituent parts. The last few chapters cover updates, transactions, XML and a few other advanced topics.<br />While the writing makes this book easier to read than the competition, I would not rate this as a beginner's book. If you are just getting into ADO.NET, and have not coded many data-driven apps, you will do well to revisit this book in a few months.<br />The strongest section in this book is probably the extensive coverage of the DataSet. Learning how to manipulate data with a DataSet is core to success with ADO.NET.<br />One of the biggest disappointments, for me, is the reliance on the System.Data.OleDb namespace. While certainly the most flexible, there should have been a few more SqlClient examples. In all fairness to the author, the SqlClient, OleDb and Oracle providers are covered in the Appendix. The author also warns you about differences between OleDb and SqlClient that you will have to take into account moving your code from one to the other.<br />I also wish the author had taken a little more time setting up a web application, as most of the application development I do is for the web. As the models for Windows applications and WebForm applications are very similar, this is not a major beef.<br />The highlight of the book is the bits and pieces the author has inserted into each chapter on the best way to code for performance. While performance is not the onlyaspect of application development, it is nice when you can write high performance code without creating an overly complex application. Most of the examples shown are as easy, or close to as easy, as the lower performing versions.<br />As an additional plus, the CD that comes with the book has an electronic copy of the book. As this book will make a good reference, and it is hardbound, it is nice to know you can carry this information around without breaking your back.	2002-09-03
US	50436062	RUWBKD1G5WM1A	0735615845	746477173	McAd/MCSD Self-Paced Training Kit: Developing Web Applications with Microsoft Visual Basic .Net and Microsoft Visual C# .Net	Books	3	44	48	N	N	Average test prep	Much of this book is aimed at beginners. While this gets a bit tedious for many people seeking certification, a good grasp of the basics can help each of us become better programmers. If you have programmed web apps before, you will find the first chapter to be largely a waste of time. The next three will have some useful information, but only if you have never coded any .NET applications. <br />Around chapter 5, you may actually start to get some useful information, as this chapter is on ADO.NET, which is core to creating Enterprise level web applications. Much of the material here is fairly basic, however.<br />At this point in time, it probably sounds like I detest this book. I don't! There are a couple of real gems in this work, that are reason enough to buy it, even if you do not intend on getting certified. They are:<br />1. Chapter 9: Building and Deploying Web Applicatins: While the material is a bit basic, this is the only book that gets down to specifics on working with applications in web farms. <br />2. Chapter 10: Testing Web Applications: Some of the material in this chapter is highly useful even if you do not code for the Microsoft .NET platform.<br />3. Chapter 11: Creating Custom Web Controls: Once again, a bit basic, but the material is solid and gave me a great head start on developing my own custom controls.<br />4. Chapter 15: Globalizing Web Applications: While I do not agree with some of the Microsoft theory, like using resource files (in a web app?), learning how to set up an application for different languages is priceless in the day and age of global applications.<br />Now, to the important question: Do I think you can pass the test with this book alone? Possibly. But, only if you really followed through on doing all of the exercises. This book, and a good sample test, is all you are likely to need to get the job done.<br />My personal feeling on this book is it is well worth the price I paid, as I gleaned out a couple of really great techniques. While a few pointers may not justify the price tag for everyone, I consider what my time is worth and whether or not using a book cuts time out of searching through the help files. In the case of custom controls and globalization, the answer is a firm yes.<br />Another strong plus is the fact that the book contains an electronic copy on the CD-ROM. There is also a practice test, but I would not rely on it alone for gauging your competence. If you do not have a copy of Visual Studio .NET, this book also comes with a DVD with a 60 day Visual Studio .NET Professional trial.	2002-09-03
US	50436062	R1H1U4AS3F4T59	0735613753	594233685	Programming Microsoft® Visual Basic® .NET (Core Reference) (Developer Reference)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Best VB.NET book	When I first set out to write this review, I was not certain I would give the book 5 stars. It is a great book, but was it really the pinnacle of VB.NET programming? Unfortunately, with so many bad books being rated at 5 stars, I have to push the limit here to ensure this book shines above many lesser examples.<br />Francesco Balena is no stranger to Visual Basic. He has written books for previous versions of the product and is intimately involved with Microsoft. He has also worked closely with Jeffrey Richter (see Applied .NET Framework Programming with Visual Basic, another excellent book), who is one of the lead consultants on the .NET Framework.<br />The expertise of the author, however, does not make this a great book. What makes this a great book is how much material is contained between its covers.<br />The book starts out with some &quot;basics&quot;. While explained in simple terms, there are a lot of gems here, both for new programmers and for those intimately familiar with older versions of Visual Basic.<br />The book then moves on to OOP in Visual Basic .NET. While the basics are necessary for the newbie, this is where the experienced VB programmer will start to see the book pay off. Combined with the third section, which details huge sections of the .NET Framework base class library, it is a must read for anyone serious about programming .NET. For anyone brave enough to take the task, I would love to see a complete book on this.<br />Section 4 (Windows Applications), I, unfortunately, skipped through, with the exception of Chapter 19, which I find pertinent to my work as an Internet Architect.<br />Section 5 is a bit thin (only 200 pages) for my liking, and may be the one downside of the book. As there are plenty of books on ADO.NET which cover every aspect in detail, the material here can easily be supplemented. <br />Finally, section 6 is another gem. While I do not agree with all of the choices, the sheer amount of material devoted to web applications (300 pages) is a nice addition to a Visual Basic .NET book. As many tend to skip over this important topic and write about Windows Applications, this is a nice touch. Web applications and windows applications are, after all, cut from a very similar cloth, esp. when you look underneath the hood.<br />As many of the books on the market will put you to sleep, a few extra bonus points should be given to Balena for a nicely flowing book. It is not quite a Platt book (Introducing Microsoft .NET, Second Edition -- one of the most entertaining computer books I have ever read), but it is far from being a snorer.<br />The main audience for this book will be those who need to get up to speed on the new version of Visual Basic. While not a beginner's book, per se, the writing style and pace are such that a beginner would not get lost. If you are advanced and can only buy one book, aim for Applied Microsoft .NET Framework Programming with Visual Basic .NET. This book, however, is a nice addition to your library, as there are many techniques that few .NET programmers have written about. <br />One last bit of kudos on this book. As with many MSPress books, this tome comes with a copy of the book on CD-ROM. As the book would make a very large paperweight, if carried around, the addition of the e-book gets a huge thumbs up in my book. I wish more publishers would adopt this stance, as I often move from gig to gig and do not like having to carry large libraries with me.<br />As a final note, I sincerely believe MSPress has created some winners in the .NET space. Unlike the red books, who seems to be rushed to be first to market, the books are well thought out, and created, mostly, by people who have worked on the actual .NET product. As such, the books often have a deeper insight than the competition.	2002-08-13
US	50436062	R2IS8SM4593VWG	078214103X	341837656	Visual Basic .NET Codemaster's Library	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Decent samples collection	I am not normally the type of person who would recommend a samples book. Overall, I find most of these types of books either work on too small of a microcosm to make any real impact, or worse, try to tackle &quot;real world&quot; problems that are only &quot;real world&quot; to authors who no longer code for the Enterprise. I was surprised to see that Matt's book fit somewhere in the middle.<br />On the scale of problem solving, this book is much closer to the microcosm type of book. Unlike most books in this mold, however, the samples are extremely well written. Whether you need a ping application sample, need to know more about using delegates or want some simple guidance through ADO.NET, this book has some info on what you are looking for.<br />Now, this book is not a deep well. Do not expect to learn everything you need to learn about .NET through the samples in this book. While it covers the basics of ADO.NET, for example, you will not find out how to code extremely complex data driven applications. The info in this book, however, should get you off in the right direction.<br />Overall, this is a book for the intermediate developer, with some experience in .NET. The beginner will be able to code the examples, but I would recommend getting a bit of grounding in general .NET coding, rather than relying on this book as a primer. As this is not the intent of the author, I do not see this as a major issue.	2002-08-12
US	50436062	R3356I80CA4Y6C	0735614229	296301280	Applied Microsoft® .NET Framework Programming (Developer Reference)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The core of .NET and much more	Jeffrey Richter is certainly a man to write a book about the core workings of .NET. As a core member of the .NET team at Microsoft, he understands tyhe inner workings better than most. As such, this book is a great value for those who really want to understand how the CLR and .NET Framework classes work, and how to apply the knowledge to your own programming.<br />Note that this is a book on C#, or at least the programming is done in C#. If you are interested in Visual Basic .NET, you would be better to pick up the &quot;companion&quot; book &quot;Applied Microsoft .NET Framework Programming in Microsoft Visual Basic .NET&quot; by Balena and Richter.<br />The book is divided into 5 parts: <br />The first part deals with the CLR and .NET Framework, and, most importantly, how to set up your applications to take advantage of the .NET Framework. <br />Part two deals with types. It works with both value types (like structures and enumerations) and reference types (like classes and arrays). One of the most valuable chapters in this section centers around checking object equality (including overriding Equals) and identity (using Hash codes). Excellent material.<br />Part three deals with designing your own types. The material in this section is a gem for properly designing types, in general, and designing good types for the .NET Framework, in specific. As classes are the core of OOP, most of the types created here are classes (reference types). <br />Part four deals with the essential types in the .NET Framework and how to use them to your advantage.<br />Part five is the real gem of the book, as it deals with how to manage types in your applications. If you do not currently use finally blocks in your exception handler, this book will convince you why you should. Of great use is the info on the IDisposable interface and, as a short cut in C#, the using block.<br />Having had the opportunity to sit through a discourse on the Framework given by Richter on the Microsoft campus, I anxiously awaited this book's release. I must say, it did not disappoint. If you want to put power in your .NET programming, this book is an essential part of your library.	2002-07-20
US	50436062	R2VKOTVJXYYUF8	0735617872	860275096	Applied Microsoft® .NET Framework Programming in Microsoft® Visual Basic® .NET (Developer Reference)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Excellent book for using VB .NET with the .NET Framework	I love Jeffrey Richter's books. Having read the book Applied .NET Framework Programming, I was a bit unsure about picking up this book. Overall, I am glad I did, as there are little nuances to Visual Basic .NET that are not present in C#. <br />I will add a caveat, however. Most people will be satisfied with one book or the other, and not both. The material is almost identical, with only a minor shift in languages. While there is some material that works in C# and not in Visual Basic .NET, and visa versa, a great majority of the material is identical. This may be the reason why a former reviewer panned the book, but I feel that the material should be reviewed on its value, and not how close it is to another book. <br />Like Applied .NET Framework Programming, this book is divided into 5 parts: <br />The first part deals with the CLR and .NET Framework, and, most importantly, how to set up your applications to take advantage of the .NET Framework. <br />Part two deals with types. It works with both value types (like structures and enumerations) and reference types (like classes and arrays). One of the most valuable chapters in this section centers around checking object equality (including overriding Equals) and identity (using Hash codes). Excellent material.<br />Part three deals with designing your own types. The material in this section is a gem for properly designing types, in general, and designing good types for the .NET Framework, in specific. As classes are the core of OOP, most of the types created here are classes (reference types). <br />Part four deals with the essential types in the .NET Framework and how to use them to your advantage.<br />Part five is the real gem of the book, as it deals with how to manage types in your applications. If you do not currently use finally blocks in your exception handler, this book will convince you why you should. Of great use is the info on the IDisposable interface. This book also shows the C# using block, even though there is no equivalent in VB.NET. I certainly hope Microsoft picks this gem up in a future version.<br />I have personally heard Jeffrey speak on the Microsoft campus, and I am quite impressed with the depth and bredth of his knowledge. I have not heard Balena speak, but after this book, and his Visual Basic .NET book, I welcome the opportunity. With books like this, MSPress is taking the crown away from Wrox Press (the former best programming books on the market) ... in a big way.	2002-07-20
US	50436062	R2JM3BK9TK4H2W	0201729555	737675358	C# Primer: A Practical Approach	Books	4	13	14	N	N	An interesting dichotomy	I expected very little from this book. The cover has very little shelf presence and is, frankly, quite ugly, IMHO. I guess you should never judge a book by its cover.<br />First the bad. If you come into this book expecting a real primer, from the dictionary definition of the word, you will be disappointed. While this book does cover the basics, the methodology is almost too strange to help someone first learning the language. If you want to learn C# from scratch, I think there are better books.<br />Having said that, there is a lot to love in this tome. Lippman has a strong grasp of what true programming is about and starts from the very beginning. While most of the revelations are hidden gems, the content is absolutely astounding, if you actually dig for the diamonds.<br />Want an example? Where else will you find an example as deep as this:<br />string usage = @\\"this is a verbatim string<BR>       the carriage return will be included in the string\\"<br />The style is a lot different than other books on the market, which may lead some to shoot this book down. I had the same reaction in the first couple of pages, but quickly changed my mind as I found more and more info that you cannot find anywhere else. As someone who purchases a lot of books (I consider programming a career, not a job), I appreciate every little nugget I get from each book, as, I hope, you do too.<br />Lippman's idea is to show a program and then run through different iterations, showing you a bit more with each turn. This is contrary to the typical, explain first and then show code, methodology, so it will most likely have you off guard at first. But, if you give it a go, the system works.<br />I think this book is best for people who have programmed before, which the author states in the preface, and most likely for those who have read other C# books prior to this one. If you do not have any programming experience, there are plenty of books to start with, like C# .NET Step By Step. <br />One last note, there are some repeat items in the book, along with some typos. It should also be mentioned that the book was written against a version of C# prior to release code, although I do not see that as a major drawback throughout most of the book. This is the primary reason for not giving this book the highest nod, as I am in absolute awe of the little nuggets of info I have received.	2002-03-06
US	50436062	RBTKVIEZJA7Y1	073561587X	566333483	Upgrading Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 to Microsoft Visual Basic .NET w/accompanying CD-ROM	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Unexpected diamond	When I first got this book, I did not think I would like it very much. After all, how much can one write on upgrading from Visual Basic to Visual Basic .NET?<br />While I believe most people will rewrite rather than upgrade, having experienced the wizard's decisions, this book has a lot of good advice to both make this an easier task and to make the right decisions in your current code if you have ever thought of upgrading.<br />While you expect this book to have a good deal on Interop, the gem here is the great explanation of remoting. While web services are the talk of the town, the ability to create server to server communication without creating another layer, is very important. For me, this section, alone, was worth the price of the ride.<br />For most, the upgrade information will be the most important, which should come as no suprise. If you are currently writing Visual Basic 6, you can learn a lot about setting up your own code to make sure it does not become legacy code when you move to .NET. Even more important, however, is the fact that following these suggestions will help you create better apps, as the suggestions for your current code are good suggestions whether the code will be upgraded or not.<br />One more nice gem before I sign off. The section on creating global components in .NET is wonderful. While most of your .NET apps are designed to sit in their own directories, knowing how to create shared components is very important for Enterprise development. If you are developing in .NET currently, this section details how to set up your own global components; this is an area where the documentation is a bit slim, so it makes a nice selling point for current .NET developers.	2002-03-03
US	50436062	R12ZGESXS4KT6Q	0735612544	37709978	Coding Techniques for Microsoft Visual Basic .Net	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Decent into, but a few large flaws	&quot;However, in the mid-1980s, most computers were still running on only Intel 286, 16-bit chips.&quot;  -- Chapter 1, page 3<br />While a typo here and there occasionally make their way into books, they do tend to make us poke deeper into the book, esp. the assumptions. The 80s theme (when the events happened in the 90s) rears it ugly head quite a few times.<br />For example, in Chapter 1, the assumption is that web services provide a web-enabled user interface. This is, of course, incorrect. Web services provide a new interface, certainly, but the UI still has to be built on top of the service. In all reality, a web service is a business tier component interface, and not UI at all. The fact that .NET provides a UI to test services does not make it a UI.<br />While I may be a bit heavy handed on specifics, mistakes in specifics makes one wonder if the generalizations are flawed as well.<br />Now, to the good points. If you are a VB programmer, this book will certainly get you up to speed very quickly. The book tends to lean towards using Visual Studio .NET. This is not a negative point, as the code will work both inside or outside the VS.NET IDE, but it is something that should be noted. If you work with Visual Studio .NET, you will find the screenshots to be very helpful as you progress through the chapters.<br />There is also an ample bit of code in this book. While much of it is learning based, rather than real world applications, it is nice to have plenty of samples, none-the-less. I am particularly fond of the Eliza program, but it shows my geekness. <br />For as thick as this book is, there is a lot missing. .NET is a very large subject, however, so it would be hard to include everything, even in a book as thick as this one.<br />Coverage?<BR>The OO section is a bit thin, but it does cover inheritance in forms, which I have not seen covered elsewhere. The ADO.NET section is excellent, considering the perceived audience. THe debugging section is quite nice,but I would recommend &quot;debugging ASP.NET&quot;, if you have full understanding that ASP.NET is a technology using VB.NET, and the debugging techniques are fully applicable in all VB.NET projects. <br />This book also has one of the best sections on the file system I have seen anywhere. In some ways, it may be a bit too heavy here, but that is not all bad.<br />Audience?<BR>I believe those with a background in Visual Basic will find this to be a good starting book in VB .NET. The same for those with other languages under their belt. A complete beginner to programming may also find some gems in this work, but I would not recommend it as the first book.	2002-03-03
US	50436062	R31LU9SKFQSQA6	0735615780	75466382	Building Web Solutions with ASP.Net and ADO.NET (Developer Reference)	Books	4	60	65	N	N	Great book on data binding and more	If you have not read Dino's articles on ASP Today, or MSDN, you have missed quite a bit. Dino is really a great writer, especially when it comes to data and performance decisions. Who better to write a book on using ADO.NET with ASP.NET.<br />The whole first third to half of the book deals with binding data to various controls, primarily the data grid. This is a good thing, as the dataGrid control is the one you will use for most of your data reporting. You learn to page, edit and use templates with this wonderful control. The downside here is that the rest of the controls are largely fluffed over in the first chapter. Overall, this is not a bad thing, but a little more content on the repeater (which is by far the most flexible) and the DataList (which is also editable) would have been a nice addition to this work.<br />In the middle of the book, you get into code reusability. The chapter loses focus at time, but deals with how you include different controls into your page, including custom user controls. From here, you learn about advanced data reporting, which may well be worth the price of the book alone. You head into deeper programatic decisions here. Fortunately, the DataGrid makes most of this a breeze.<br />The final third of the book (part of section II and all of section III) puts wheels on what you have learned in the first 2/3rds. The chapters in this third deal with disconnected data, web services, interop with COM and exposing data to your ASP.NET applications.<br />As I have stated, my largest beef with this book is the lack of more examples with the Repeater and DataList. Overall, I cannot be too critical here, as the DataGrid will most likely bare the brunt of your ASP.NET data programming work. It is a deep enough shortcoming to me, however, that I have to deduct 1 star.<br />A couple more comments:<br />1. This book is written using C#. If you are a VB.NET developer, you can still use the book for the concepts, but understand the syntax will be different.<br />2. This is not a beginner's book. While I can see programmer's experience with ADO utilizing this book, esp. if they come from a language that uses braces (Java, JavaScript, C++, etc.), I would not recommend this as a first .NET book for an inexperienced programmer.	2002-02-23
US	50436062	R30SWQY4YVL84O	0735613745	483721269	Microsoft Visual Basic .Net Step by Step (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	3	31	34	N	N	Nice beginner book, but falls a bit flat	After reading Microsoft Visual C# .NET Step By Step, I was a bit excited at where Microsoft was moving with the Step By Step series. This particular book, however, sets me back a bit on my praise. <BR>First, I should start off by saying this is not a horrible book. If you truly are starting out with Visual Basic .NET, esp. if you have never learned an earlier version of Visual Basic, you can get a lot out of this book. The exercises are excellent, esp. if you are working with desktop apps, and will help you nail down the examples. <BR>Now, my real problem with this book is it treats Visual Basic .NET as a toy language. VB has long had this reputation since the IDE did all of the work for you. As all languages are now run in the same IDE, with the same tools, this argument should be moot. Why, then, did the author of this book choose such simplistic drivel when compared to the Visual C# .NET book? Unfortunately, I cannot answer that question. <BR>I rate this book as average despite the fact I am a bit disappointed. The reason for the rating is the book does its job. It is a book for beginners (or at least beginners to the language) who want an easy method to learn the new language. If you are an experienced Visual Basic programmer, the Code Techniques for Visual Basic .NET is a much better deal, but I can see that a newer developer can find a lot of value in this book. <BR>One warning. While the book does have some information on web applications and services, the primary focus is on building desktop apps. This is not a bad thing if you can separate the language from the implementation, as the concepts in the book are sound. If, however, you are looking for a book that moves farther into web development, you might be disappointed.	2002-02-21
US	50436062	RT0UCHPGN5V8H	0735612897	896890881	Microsoft Visual C# .Net Step by Step (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Great beginner's book	I have not been a fan of the Step By Step series in the past. If this is the direction they are going, I may have to re-examine by own personal bias against them.<br />Admitedly, this is a beginner's book, rather than a book for people who have already gained quite a bit of experience in C# through the betas. But, that is not all bad.<br />My own personal reason for picking up this book is the large amount of time I have spent on Visual Basic .NET, as of late. The fact it was free made it worth even more to me.<br />My personal love of this book comes from the fact it is the first one I have sat down and read that covers more than syntax. Okay, Wrox did have a book that went beyond, but it was rushed and not as well designed for learning a new language and paradigm.<br />From the first chapter, you are encouraged to get into code and start developing with C#.NET from the first chapter. The book also covers a variety of types of projects. Parts 4-6 take you through Windows Forms and WebForm applications, as well as working with ADO.NET. Sweet!<br />The book is broken down into nice bite size chunks, each with its own projects. Overall, I wish Microsoft was still putting the ebook on the CD, as I like to carry the CD instead of the entire tome, but that is a minor knock.<br />There is one potential downside to the book. You can easily develop with C# using notepad. Much of the book, however, relies on Visual Studio .NET. While I don't consider this a major negative, those that are not using Visual Studio .NET will not get as much value from the book.<br />I am a bit reluctant to give this book 5 stars, as I, as an advanced developer, do not get as much value out of this book. However, it hits its intended target and makes a wonderful book for someone just learning C#. And, with almsot 600 pages of content, and a reasonable font size, it packs quite a punch. The fact that the layout looks rather nice and makes it easy and enjoyable to learn is an added bonus.	2002-02-17
US	50436062	R3NJT9CG4GJY7S	0735613702	680521643	Programming Microsoft®  Windows® with C# (Developer Reference)	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Very GUI oriented	I picked up this book primarily to advance my C# skills. As I have not programmed a standard EXE type UI in ages, I doubt I will get to use it for much more. I tell you this, as there is a possibility my review my be a bit clouded due to my programming of web apps. As I have given a great rating, I hope my neutrality on the content comes through.<br />Opening the front cover, you can instantly see the focus of the book (if you did not figure out by the title). The inside cover is a list of the system class that relate to typical window UI applications. The back cover also contains information for UI apps, namely the colors you can set Windows Forms too.<br />The first chapter deals with the basics of C#. The chapter covers C# from the perspective of one with programming experience. As this is not a beginner's book, this is not a bad thing. This introduction continues through the next couple of chapters, which cover the basics of Windows Forms and their structure.<br />From this point on, you learn in bite size chunks, the workings of every part of a Windows Forms application, including text, drawing, IO, time, images and menus.<br />This is not a book for the casual reader. The entire tome weighs in at over 1200 pages of content, and Microsoft has not added thunk by using overly large fonts and huge graphics.<br />My favorite part of the book is the appendices. I especially enjoyed learning more about file IO and strings. I am also very fond of the fact that Microsoft did not take the yearbook approach to this work, like Wrox. The consistency of the material is excellent compared to the competition, and having a single author may be the most important point.<br />The biggest negative here is the title. When I think of Programming Windows, I am not necessarily thinking of GUI. I am sure my focus on web apps has something to do with this, but I have also poked around in the Windows API prior to .NET. While this book covers some of the Framework under the hood, it is mostly aimed at the UI. <br />Fortunately, the material is compelling enough to not knock off points for the misleading title. If you read the back cover, you will understand that this is not a API style book going in, so it is not that bad.	2002-02-17
US	50436062	R3F7FT50XHRDCI	0072192887	886368644	ASP .NET Developer's Guide	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Lots of thunk	I am beginning to get the idea that McGraw Hill works for shelf presence rather than content. Their ASP.NET books are weighing in at a lot of pages, which rates high in thunk factor (the sound a book makes when dropped on a table). If you are interested in a nice thick book, you will find it here; beware, however, as the book uses large fonts and lots of white space. <br />I am also impressed that Greg Buczek uses CodeBehind in parts of his book. So many of the ASP.NET books on the market fail to separate code and tags, which is one of the best parts of the paradigm of .NET. It seems more like an afterthought, however, as he calls it an advanced topic. This is correct if you come from an ASP background perhaps, but separation of code and UI (tags) is a core part of the .NET programming paradigm.<br />Much of the book deals with different controls that you use in a page. I will not belittle this point, as Visual Studio .NET and the .NET Framework do a lot of work for you. You will be over 300 pages into the book before the song changes to .NET Framework objects.<br />There are only about 60 pages on data access, which is two chapters: OLEDB and SQL providers. This is the weakest part of the book, and my reason for rating the book a bit lower than average. Data is critical to Enterprise applications and 60 pages, esp. with such large fonts, falls way short.<br />The thing I find the most &quot;cool&quot; in the book is the chapter on the Mobile SDK. The .NET mobile controls are a nice addition, and make creating applications for cell phones and PDAs a breeze.	2002-01-31
US	50436062	RFJB7JSVVQO2T	0072192917	269037977	Instant ASP.NET Applications(with CD)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Good if you are building a store	I see five stars for this book, and wonder how anyone who has compared this book to other books on the market can rate it this high. My guess is the use needed to develop the same type of application as presented in the book, and was glad the application was easily completed with copy and paste. Rather than focus on that, I will tell my own personal beefs.<br />On the positive side, this tome has great shelf presence. Wieghing in at over 1k of pages, gives it a great thunk factor (the sound the book makes when it hits the desk). This is deceiving, however, as the book uses a rather large font and contains copious code samples, which stretch it out farther. I am not saying that there is not a lot of content, just that this book would have been a lot smaller with some publisher's font selection.<br />Also positive is the fact that the writer does use Codebehind files for some of the content. I applaud this, as so many books on ASP.NET fail in this department. It is hard to determine that CodeBehind is used in many of the pages until you look at the code on the CD.<br />If you plan on learning from this book, you will most likely be disappointed. Admitedly, that is not the focus, so I am not deducting anything for this factor. There is the obligatory introductory material, but it is largely a reference on controls.<br />My biggest beef is much of the material is a lesson in how to drag and drop in Visual Studio .NET, or, rather, that the only thing you need to do for much of the code listings is drag and drop. If you are using the .NET Framework, sans Visual Studio .NET, you may actually type in the code, and prove me wrong.<br />I also have a problem that a great deal of the code is not completely in line with best practices. Like most ASP.NET books, the main thrust is writing ASP.NET much like ASP, which is not the best way to enter the .NET world.<br />A large portion of the book is aimed at E-Commerce sites, although many of the examples can apply somewhere else. While I have some disagreements with some of the methodology used here, I can see where a person needing an E-Commerce site, or at least some of the same types of pages as a fictional E-Commerce site, can get a lot of value from this book. As such, I am rating it slightly below average, as I see some utilitarian value. I would say this is actually about 2.5 stars, if I were allowed to go in half stars.	2002-01-31
US	50436062	R746RHHGF436M	0735711410	755551715	Debugging ASP.NET	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Decent focused book	To a certain extent, I find this title a bit of a misnomer, as this particular tome contains more than simply debugging. It is well structured to relate these additional topics to debugging, but it is a pleasure to go through a book that both covers its subject and many of the peripheral issues that can help you debug, as well.<br />While this book is not heavy on OO, which would make a nice additional topic, debugging OO or procedural is largely the same.<br />There is a good mixture of both C# and VB.NET code, which I applaud. It is important to know that debugging is the same, regardless of language.<br />I do have a slight beef with the amount of code that resides in the ASPX file. This comes from my belief that the separation of code and UI, via a CodeBehind file, is an important part of .NET. You may disagree with this assessment.<br />There are some good examples of using tracing in your applications. Tracing is a great tool to find where you are having problems. There is also a nice section on logging your application exceptions.<br />The material on caching, although not completely related to debugging, is a nice addition.<br />The book, overall, is aimed for more advanced readers. I think a beginner might be able to tackle some of the material, and probably should, but understand that you might get a bit lost if this is your first ASP.NET book.	2002-01-31
US	50436062	R1XV7ROKID0PY7	0764548247	504190313	Visual Basic.Net Weekend Crash Course	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Simplistic beginner's book	I need to start out saying that I am a more advanced reader than this book is aimed at. I throw this in to make sure my potential bias is exposed at the start, lest it seem I am trying to mislead. Comparing to other reviewers, I do not think I am too far off the mark.<br />This book is aimed at beginners. It is probably a good start, conceptually, for those who need to get a grounding in Visual Basic .NET. A good candidate here is a VB programmer with some experience who is being forced over to VB.NET.<br />Most of the examples in this book fit the beginner mold, as they are simple, yet largely effective. There are some that do not seem to be coded the way I would code (including some that fail to work in the RTM), but the book was probably written off of beta 2.<br />The beginning of the book is tied into the IDE, and there are some screenshots of how to do things. Personally, I find Micrsoft's Coding Techniques book a bit better here, but it is not a beginner's book, so that would be comparing apples to oranges.<br />The best part of this book is the organization. The Weekend Crash Course series is nicely laid out in bite size chunks. If you follow the plan, you can easily get through the material in a weekend.	2002-01-31
US	50436062	R25T17SOF17PHX	0735613486	257914684	Designing Microsoft® ASP.NET Applications (Developer Reference)	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Good ASP.NET book	After working with ASP.NET for more than a year and a half, I am glad to see that the product is very near to its ship date. Perhaps this is why we are finally seeing some good books on the market.<br />Of all the ASP.NET books out thus far, this is the first that actually follows proper development practice, according to Microsoft. Let me explain:<br />* While most of the ASP.NET books slap code into the ASP.NET page (which is legal), the paradigm is separation of code and tags using a CodeBehind file. This is the first book that follows that paradigm, over all. The chapter on validation is the most glaring fallback.<br />* While most of the books on the market are placing their SQL code in the page, this one is actually using SQL stored procedures to create a data tier (thin, but still a data tier).<br />Now that I have worked through the good, let's look at the shortcomings. While there is a lot of good material, it is rather thin. This can partially be blamed on the breadth of ASP.NET, but it can also be blamed on a tighter focus. This is not a major shortcoming, overall, but, after spending the first few chapters introducing the framework, et al, you would think the author would have some form of object reference somewhere.<br />Shining moments:<BR>* Validation controls - this is very useful stuff<BR>* Working with Visual Studio .NET - some of the most useful screen shots I have seen.<BR>* User controls - while a bit thin, a great into to real world user controls.<BR>* ADO.NET - while the coverage is not in depth, the material that is there is well worth the read<BR>* XML Web Services - nice, real world perspective<br />While a beginner might be able to pick up this book and run with it, the material is not aimed at those without programming experience. Keep this in mind if you are planning on using this book to learn your first language.	2002-01-22
US	50436062	R317Z7XGNC97CT	0735615888	749609110	Writing Secure Code	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very good book on security mistakes and how to fix them	When deciding on whether or not to buy a book, I normally read the reviews to find out what people did not like. After checking out this book, I am shocked at the comments one of the reviewers wrote, as he unfairly panned the book on something that it was not intended to solve.<BR>If you are looking for a heavy coders book to show you how to code security in your apps, this is probably not the best place to look. While there is some code, that is not the primary focus. You will also be disappointed if you are looking for code samples that easily migrate to other systems.<BR>The book is, overall, very Microsoft-centric. Whether this is good or bad depends largely on your point of view. While you can apply many of the techniques to any platform to shore up holes in your code.<BR>There are many of the security mistakes in this book that I found almost laughable, until I tested code on a few collegues sites. If you code your SQL strings in ADO, for example, you might be leaving a way for a malicious user to gain admin rights to your SQL Server.<BR>If you think there is no way in the world you would ever need a book on security holes in code, then this book is probably tailor made for you. Understand, of course, if you do not do windows, the code samples will be far less useful than if you do.	2001-12-06
US	50436062	R3AZ7JQE1GRNU7	0201738287	551162944	Applied .NET: Developing People-Oriented Software Using C#	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Different type of book	If you have kept up with the .NET revolution, you have no doubt seen and read a lot of books on .NET and the .NET languages. Most of the books on C# deal with the basics of syntax with a couple of small samples applications. Very few, however, deal with any sort of real world situations.<BR>While this book does cover a few of the basics, it is more focused on the people aspect. I feel this is an important, often overlooked, aspect of software development and the fact that it is overlooked is why so much software is hard to use.<BR>If you are looking for a best practices book, this tome is not quite there. The same goes for a book strong on code. While you can use the CD to look at a good amount of sample code, the book is rather thin. This is not, however, the focus of the book; and, since so many other books cover this, the niche filled here is rather nice.<BR>If I had to pick the proper audience for this book, there would be two categories: 1) Anyone who has ever had a piece of software fail as the end-users never bought in, and 2) anyone who wants to ensure this never happens. While it is not an excellent book, I have to laud the publisher for taking a chance on this subject matter selling. I hope it does.	2001-12-06
US	50436062	R1LFMVQXYORLTF	0764545876	436700933	Unlocking OLAP with Microsoft SQL Server and Excel 2000	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nice book	When I first got this book, I was thrilled with it. After all, opening up OLAP with Excel 2000 is a pretty neat trick. Now, I have seen how bad this idea can be for Internet applications, and the honeymoon is over.<BR>Don't get me wrong, this is not a bad book. Just because I do not find the book useful for the types of applications I work with does not make it bad. The three stars signifies that it is average, which is exactly what this book is.<BR>In this plus column, this book gives you a nice introduction to OLAP. While not technical deep, the chapters on setting up your cubes will take you a long way into the world of OLAP. If you are interested in using Excel as your reporting front-end, you will find plenty of screenshots to help you through every step in the process.<BR>On the downside, the book seems to rely a lot on screenshots and some of the written material is a bit thin. Understanding the purpose of the book, the thin parts are not so glaring.<BR>Of course, the material is a bit old now, considering that both Excel and SQL Server have moved on to the next version. However, if you plan on using OLAP in SQL Server 7, consider putting this book on your wish list, as it has a lot of good content. I say this esp. if you have not worked with OLAP before.	2001-12-06
US	50436062	R2PMYUQ3R5Y5AW	0672321262	565048326	Sams Teach Yourself ASP.NET in 24 Hours	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Basic beginners fare	Overall, I am not impressed with this book. By far, it is the least expensive of the current lot. However, getting a bargain is not always the best route. I would recommend plopping down a few more bucks for one of the other books than picking this one up.<br />The book is not bad for a beginner's book, which is its intended audience. My problems with the book lie in a couple of areas:<br />1. Coding ASP.NET as if it were a new version of ASP - there is no real reliance on CodeBehind. The separation of code and UI is done strictly through functions in the ASP.NET page. This is the way most ASP.NET books do it, so this is not necessarily a showstopper. Learn to write code more like VB if you really want your ASP.NET to shine. This book will not teach you how.\<br />2. Examples far more complex than they need to be - not sure if the author(s) needed to impress someone, or if they really believe ASP.NET is this difficult, but many of the examples approach things the hard way. My personal philosophy: a simple problem generally has a simple answer; a complex problem generally has a simple answer or a group of simple answers. The author(s) do not subscribe to this theory.<br />3. Not enough meat - this is more a comparison of this book and the competition. While there is some good material, the book is quite short. If it did what it did well, I would not see this as a downside, but it gets a bit bloated with code and misses the point.<br />Still, I would rate the book about average. If price is your primary objective, you can get a good start with this book. If you can spend an extra $10, I would recommend the Sams 21 days book (+ $10) or the Beginning ASP.NET with {your language here} from Wrox. Either will give you a much better introduction.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R1KB9004OL323D	0672321432	66897132	ASP.NET: Tips, Tutorials and Code	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Interesting combination of talent	I want to start off by saying this is not a beginner's book. If you are a newbie to coding (or even a newbie to .NET), there are better books to cut your teeth on.<br />Having said that, I think this is a good book to learn about ASP.NET and how to program it correctly. In conjunction with Dan Appleman's book \\"Moving to VB.NET\\", you have a nice library started on what to do (and more importantly \\"not to do\\") in .NET.<br />On the plus side, there is a lot of content on ASP.NET, esp. in the web services corner. I like the chapter on common regular expressions and the fact that the authors of this book actually know what codeBehind is and how to use it. While this may not seem like much of a complement, most books on ASP.NET seem to assume that ASP.NET is a new version of ASP instead of a completely new technology.<br />On the negative side, the concept of OO seems to be largely lost. As I believe that OO techniques will be used to the level of overkill by many OO newbies, this is not a major downer for me.<br />If you want a taste of whether or not this book is useful, take a look at the sample chapter(...)I believe you will find enough info in this one chapter to convince you of the usefullness of this book in your library.<br />Once again, if you are looking for a beginner's book, look elsewhere. If, instead, you want a solid book of good techniques for your arsenal, along with some solid .NET coding practice, it will be hard to find a better all around book than this one.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R1RLCTCGG124JP	1588801284	777533089	Designing Visual Basic .NET Applications	Books	2	5	11	N	N	What were you thinking?	Here is a novel concept for a book: let's teach someone how to program in a language without code. Can it be done?<br />The answer, of course, is yes ... if you rely on the Visual Studio .NET IDE, which this book does. More than a book on coding, this book is a step by step on how to create code with the Visual Studio .NET IDE, without actually writing code.<br />This is not all bad, of course, as you can write some decent applications using this technique. However, it would have been nicer, if this was their intention, to include some screen shots. This book does not.<br />On the plus side, there is an awful lot of theory in this book. This alone may make this a useful addition to your library. If you want to really learn to code Visual Basic .NET, go elsewhere.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R33L9H9KW82A77	186100530X	75125401	ASP. Net Programmers Reference	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Half-baked intro with a decent namespace reference	What this book covers: web controls, HTML controls, mobile internet toolkit, caching, configuration, security, xml, data and quite a few chapters on web services. Add a chapter (intro) on ASP.NET and you have the entire book summed up. Now the review:<br />I used to love Wrox. From a programmer's standpoint, they used to have the best books, bar none. Unfortuantely, they seem to be more interested in being the first to market these days rather than being the best.<br />On the plus side, Wrox's books always have plenty of sample code. This book is no exception. The problem I have is the book tries to be both an intro and a namespace reference, and it does neither exceptionally well, although it does better as a namespace reference. For this reason, I will keep this book in my normal reference library until something else comes along, but a more complete reference on the .NET Framework would be a wonderful addition (hint! hint!).<br />The book starts out as an intro to ASP.NET. Since ASP.NET is more of a technology than a language or product, this is a tough row to hoe. ANd, the book falls a bit flat. In previous ASP books, this was a much easier task, as ASP was thought of more as a language (due to the overwhelming adoption of VBScript for server side code) than a technology. <br />The book then begins to go through various .NET Framework namespaces that you will use with ASP.NET. While I believe a more full reference is in order, the namespaces covered are those you are more likely to use in your web work. The book tools along for awhile and then takes a sudden break with mobile controls. While I believe these are useful for web work, the placement of this chapter in the middle of the book is a bit confusing (must be the multiple author problem). The other confusing chapter is called Useful .NET namespaces - since almost every chapter deals with a namespace, why stop in the middle to generically single some out?<br />The book is not bad, and it is certainly worth the (price). I guess I have just come to expect so much more from a Wrox Reference. As they become heftier, they are less useful as a book to carry to a client site. And, as they become more a teaching book (which they are not doing well at here) and less a reference, it becomes harder to justify the expenditure.<br />In Summary: If you need a reference to learn a bit more about the .NET Framework namespaces, as they relate to ASP.NET, this is a good addition to your library. If you want to learn ASP.NET, look elsewhere.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	RCQAW9JZX2GQP	1861005970	615537005	Early Adopter Curl	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Technology that may never take off	If you have never been to curls website and looked at this new web technology, you do not know what you are missing. In some ways, you can think of Curl as Flash on steroids, although you can do much more than the eye candy Macromedia is known for.<br />They call this book an early adopter book, but, since I think Curl is most likely going to go the way of Microsoft Agent, it is more a Bleeding Edge book. Unlike Microsoft Agent, however, I do think this technology is very useful.<br />So, what is Curl? Curl is a new OO technology for web UI development. In many ways, it is what Java promised, with applets, in its early days. The main difference here is Curl is designed to create dynamic, awe inspiring presentations (ala Flash) without a lot of work (once you learn the language, that is).<br />The book deals with Curl primarily as a UI development language. Through the chapters you will learn to work with 2d and 3d environments, multimedia and even dynamic client interaction. As with all Wrox books, there are plenty of code examples (all downloadable from the Wrox site). <br />I really love this book, although I wonder if the technology will ever really take off (Curl engine download is huge if you have a dialup).	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R1KEXW9W41E7EX	0672320894	44576751	VB .NET for Developers	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A bit overpriced, more on the IDE than VB .NET	My first thought, after seeing this book, was what a small book for 40 bucks. After thumbing through the pages, I still think it is a bit small, but I am more impressed with its content.<br />This book, much like &quot;Designing Visual Basic.NET Applications&quot;, is as much a book on the Visual Studio .NET IDE as it is on Visual Basic .NET. Unlike the aforementioned tome, this book has plenty of screenshots to help you navigate the IDE. <br />In all fairness, there is a good amount of code in this book, for its size. I just wish there were more. If you are looking for an advanced book, look the other way.<br />The saving grace of this book is its help in navigating the Visual Studio .NET IDE. If you want to learn the tool as much as you want to learn the language, this is not a bad buy. For books in this price range the O'Reilly Nutshell book is much better.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	RC2ET2JBX7RL0	1861005563	144882966	Professional .NET Framework	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Not a Professional book	Wrox has a long standing policy of dividing their books into Professional, Beginner, etc. categories. The Professional books are generally a series of books that deal with topics on a level that requires an experienced developer to traverse. While this book might require experience, it does not fit the mold of the normal Professional book.<br />One of my biggest beef with this book is the same beef I had with Microsoft's MSDN series of .NET books. It feels more like a mismash of articles that have been published before (in Microsoft's case, they had been). There is no real cohesion in the book, and, while the content is not bad, the lack of cohesion makes you feel more like you are sitting through a conference than reading a book on the .NET Framework. One last downside: The appendices in this book are largely useless. <br />Having knocked the book, there is good material here. While this book is not the best to learn to code .NET, there is ample information on how the Framework works. If C# is your language of choice, and you are an Internet developer, the chapter on Engineering web services may well become the most useful in the book.<br />I will this book as an addition to your library, although I but not as your first purchase. If you want a book to understand the .NET Framework, I believe .NET Framework Essentials is a much better tome (at a much better price).	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R1VV489H9IF8VA	0596000928	896898164	VB.NET Language in a Nutshell	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not a starter	As with most O'Reilly Nutshell books, this book is more a reference than a coder's primer. Unlike most, however, it is a bit lacking on how to code in the language.<br />This is not all bad. The small size makes this a very useful book for the experienced coder to carry on client sites. The reference material is quite thorough and easy to navigate. It is this reason, alone, that added this book to my library.<br />If you are trying to learn VB.NET, I am not certain this book is your first choice. Of course, if you have purchased other O'Reilly titles, you are already familiar with this. <br />If I were to pick one audience for this book, it would be the VB programmer who was looking for a way to upgrade to the new VB .NET language. The appendices, esp. A and F, will help them move into the new technology quickly.	2001-11-01
US	50436062	R34JHW0G0Y22GP	0789724723	123606358	The Unauthorized Guide to Pocket PC	Books	2	15	15	N	N	Almost useless	I won a PocketPC recently, which I have fallen in love with. The first day I had it, I looked at a few books and chose this one. Inside the cover, it had a date of 2001, not 2000, so it seemed newer than most of the other books I found. Apparently, 2001 is a reprint date, as the majority of the info is old and useless.<br />The book is not completely ..., as it did help me get around the PocketPC. However, most of the info it helped on, I could have figured out with a bit more experimentation. If I decide I need another book, I may go for the Microsoft Press book. It is about half the price and seems about as complete.	2001-09-12
US	50436062	R8LACNDAKJC0E	0672320398	945292031	XML for ASP.NET Developers	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Saved my bacon	If you have worked with XML in the COM world, the new XML model will come as a shock. This book is a great starting place to learn more about XML in the .NET world. Peppered with more than a few good examples (along with code download), you should be able to get started using XML in your .NET applications.<br />Since there is a lot of good in this book, I figured I would get the bad out of the way quickly. First off, I believe the book is a bit too heavy on the background of XML. I would have liked a little less background and more .NET. If you are not very well versed in XML, XSLT, etc., these chapters will come in handy. I state this &quot;negative&quot; as a personal item.<br />The second item is the lack of some examples using other methods, like ReplaceChild, SelectSingleNode, etc. There are some examples, but, in most cases, the methods are highlighted rather than covered in code. I accept this limitation as the number of things you can do with XML in .NET is astounding.<br />A brief note about the subject head of this review. I am working on an application that needs to input a string into XML, transform it and output a string. This was simple in the pre-.NET world, but has become more complex in .NET. I needed this to happen without saving to a file, as the app is all Internet based. I found the method to do this in the book.<br />Overall I would say this is a very good work to get started with XML in ASP.NET. If you are a VB.NET developer, be aware that all of the code samples are in C#. I do not find this to be a major hurdle, as I do both, but those who are strictly VB.NET developers may have a tougher row to hoe.	2001-09-12
US	50436062	R35XNEGB4B2DG4	1861005466	716467614	Professional SQL Server 2000 XML	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Nice book, lots of code	Wrox has always prided themselves on code intensive books, and this is no exception. Unfortunately, they are also getting a bit intensive in the area of adding authors to be the first one to market. This leads to a book that seems a bit disjointed. With as few chapters as this book has, I do not see the need for so many authors. I guess it is the length.<br />Pluses in this book include the chapter on FOR XML and the chapter on OPENXML. I believe this is the area where most developers will like to spend the most of their time. I would have liked to see FOR XML EXPLICIT get a bit more coverage, as this is the bear, but the examples are workable, so I cannot complain too much.<br />I also enjoyed the updategram chapter. This ability was highly touted in Microsoft marketing events, but took quite some time to surface. The case studies help put the technology in a real world light.<br />The negatives are few. First, I believe far too much time is spent on XSD schemas, at least with the way it is presented. In a real world scenario, you are probably going to pull the schema from an existing database, which makes this material NULL and void. If you do get into writing XSD, you will find this material far too shallow.<br />I also would have liked to see how this technology could blend with the direction Microsoft is pushing .NET. I realize this is not the topic of the book, so I have not hammered on this. Perhaps the next book will be SQL Server 2000 and .NET?	2001-08-10
US	50436062	R165HKLP9E9OJY	1861004990	9721861	Professional C# (Beta 2 Edition)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Highly disjointed	This book is an average work. There is a lot of good material, but the editing is quite inconsistent. <br />Wrox is bringing out more and more yearbooks these days. In their rush to be first to market, they are missing what made them so good when the first started their professional line. I used to be inclined to five star a lot of their books.<br />There is some good material in this book. While I believe this book, along with the rest of the C# books, are largely missing the mark with .NET, I am glad to see how thorough the coverage is here. Whether you build Internet or desktop applications, you will find something of value in this book.<br />What disappoints me most is some of the code in the book has typos that a person new to C# would not catch right off. That and a great deal of the book is filled with a lot of padding. In many ways, this book is more like Beginning C# than Professional C#.<br />To the positive: There are some good examples of working with legacy systems in C#. This, in and of itself, will make the code useful when .NET is first released and there is still a lot of legacy (can I say legacy here?) COM code. <br />Also, the appendices are good for those who have not played with C# yet and want to relate it to another language they are familiar with. While Java and C++ developers have a slight advantage here, learning curve wise, the appendix on VB to C# will help ease the sting of changing languages.	2001-08-10
US	50436062	RQ4I8QWK5WP9R	0672321688	282408480	Sams Teach Yourself ASP.NET in 21 Days	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Good beginning to intermediate work	If you are a beginner with ASP.NET, you should find that there is plenty of material to get you up to speed with ASP.NET. Unlike some of the 21 days series, this book gets into some really meaty subjects. The book on data access is well worth the price of admission. In fact, it is easier to read and understand than the code intensive &quot;Professional ASP.NET&quot; book from Wrox, which is not a bad book either. This makes it a better beginners book, hands down.<br />If you are advanced, you will find a lot of material, esp. if you have not touched on ADO.NET very much. The common ASP.NET mistakes will help some more advanced programmers, although Dan Appleman's VB.NET book is much better at this.<br />My personal beef with the book is most of the code is written in the ASPX page itself, rather than CodeBehind. The book does cover CodeBehind, but puts it almost as an aside. The separation of code and UI into separate files is one of the primary strengths with ASP.NET, IMHO. This is true of the Wrox book, as well. <br />After running through this book, I was inclined to lower my rating of Professional ASP.NET a notch. This book is better written, and runs together better. I still like the Wrox book, but I think this one will have more value to a person just getting into ASP.NET. Too much of the Wrox book is not beta 2 compliant (not a whole lot, but more than this book). This book hits closer to home. Good job, Chris.	2001-08-10
US	50436062	R2JDNVK7O64D6H	1861004885	922338141	Professional ASP.NET	Books	4	42	47	N	N	Welcome back Wrox	Over the past few months, Wrox has been rushing to be the first one on the market with tomes on some form of new technology. This rush has produced ill conceived, half-baked books like VB.NET Programming with the Public Beta, A Preview of ASP+ and Introducing .NET. Each of the was the best of class when released, but only because they were the only one that showed up on the first day.<br />This speed has also produced typo-full and error ridden books (for examples of misconceptions spread, see the VB.NET Preview). Many of the yearbook books (ie, tons of authors) from Wrox have also been plagued with repeats, as one author writes the same thing down in slightly different words.<br />I do not fault the authors for this, as I know what a hectic schedule writing can be. I also cannot fault the publisher, as long as people will buy the book.<br />Fortunately, Professional ASP.NET is a return to Wrox's glory days. Are there some typos? Certainly, but nothing really major. Are there any repeats? A couple, but very few. Overall, the content is well divided and the authors seem a lot better versed at the technology than they did with the earlier .NET works.<br />One thing that is very refreshing is examples in security, configuration, etc. Having had to eck most of this out myself, it is nice to see it from another point of view. It has given me a chance to test my own code against another way, in some cases, and to confirm my coding decisions in others.<br />It is also nice to see a chapter on mobile .NET applications. As these will become more important in the future, and no other book has any yet, this is a good thing. Kudos.<br />As with most Wrox books, there are plenty of code samples. This will help you with your own apps. Unfortunately, as of today (July 11), the code samples are not on the Wrox site. But, I expect them soon. The books tend to be a bit ahead of the code.<br />I hope this means that Wrox is returning to writing quality books instead of just being first. I have so many red books my bookshelf appears to be bleeding. I was wondering if the red was running out. If this book is any indication, the worm has turned.	2001-07-12
US	50436062	RY3LW176V05OL	1893115976	184799915	Moving to VB .NET: Strategies, Concepts, and Code	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent overview	First off, this is not a typical programmer's book. If you are trying to solve a particular problem in VB.NET, you would be best to look elsewhere (as of today, this means to the future as all books out now are beta 1).<br />The first section of this book deals with the programming mentality and the reasoning behind moving to .NET. If you have never studied the economics of programming, this is a nice subject to study.<br />The next section is a bit of a history lesson, which is important to understand the why of .NET. When you see where you have been you can better understand the need. Once again, you will not see this in a typical VB.NET book.<br />The meat of the book is in coding techniques. Even these are approached from a &quot;why you do or do not do this&quot; type of approach. I am in full agreement that many VB developers will mess up inheritance and threading when they start to play with these new &quot;toys&quot;.<br />The book is up to date with beta 2, so any samples you download from the site are beta 2 compliant. The samples, however, are not the focus, just the gravy.<br />On my wish list, a discussion of design patterns would have completely sewn up the book (OO is going to be a radical change for VB programmers), but this is not a serious detraction with so much good stuff.<br />Once again, if you want to be spoonfed some programming techniques, look elsewhere. If, instead, you wish to learn the reasoning behind dot net and how (and why) of using the many new features of VB.NET, you will like this book.	2001-07-10
US	50436062	RE2W6FDN36OMC	0735613699	30425208	Programming Microsoft SQL Server 2000 with XML (Pro-Developer)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	It's about time	Let's see. SQL Server 2000 has been out for quite some time now. One of the neat features of SQL Server 2000 is XML. Yet, all of the tomes written so far offer nothing more than a cursory glance.<br />Note, that I am not criticizing the authors of these works for this oversight. Much of the blame lies in Microsoft not having the XML features complete until the very latest betas (release candidates actually, but who is counting).<br />One of the features with the most promise, updategrams, has not been covered at all (except a mention here and there and a snippet of how the XML is formatted).<br />Also of note is the documentation of the FOR XML EXPLICIT mode. The 13 pages on this subject give a good intro to get up and going. You will still have to pound out the queries (and probably cuss a bit), but it is nice to finally have some documentation (even the books online were poor here).<br />A word of warning. This is not a book about how to use SQL Server 2000. It is a very specialized work on SQL Server 2000 and XML. If you want to learn SQL Server 2000, it would be best to look elsewhere. <br />I would like to give the book a five star rating, but there are areas where I feel the material is a bit too thin. On the other hand, this work is enough to be worth the money spent if you are developing in SQL Server 2000 and XML.	2001-06-12
US	50436062	R9OIPLVDOVEIA	073561377X	434165783	Introducing Microsoft .Net (Encyclopedia of Visual Medicine)	Books	4	71	75	N	N	Good introductory information	As a programmer, I get a lot of books, esp. when looking at new technologies, like .NET. From my viewpoint, right on the bleeding edge, this book is a bit too simplistic. If you have been working with .NET since the PDC beta, this is probably not the book for you either.<br />Now, before you step away, let's put this in context. Mr. Platt has not written a book for those of us who have been on the bleeding edge of this technology for the past year (well, almost). This book, instead, is written to give a good overview of .NET for those who are just starting out.<br />Who is this book for? This book is aimed for anyone who wants a 20,000 foot view of the .NET Framework. While there are code samples, this is not designed to be a tutorial as much as an overview.<br />Overall, I would recommend this book as a nice overview. As much of the information in the book is overview, most of this one, unlike the MSDN books recently released, will still be applicable in a few weeks. Looking at the MSPress site lately, even Microsoft is embarassed at the MSDN books, as even an ISBN number will not pull up the books.<br />Unfortunately, even some of the info in this book may change before the gold release of .NET. One good sign, is the fact that the author points out which sections are likely to change. This type of honesty is unusual in the seemingly cutthroat business of computer book publishing.<br />Summary: This book is definitely a beginner's book. If you are already developing .NET applications (playing with .NET), you will not find a great deal of new information. If you are looking for a developer's book, pass on as well. If you would like to know more about what .NET is, however, this is a good choice.<br />My Rating: I feel this book is a 4 in context with the audience it is aimed for. For developers, I would subtract a star. For those already working in .NET, I would take off two. For those who have really worked through .NET, I would say 1 star is about all of the valueyou will get out of it.	2001-05-23
US	50436062	R2P5RHJBGN8OVL	0735612889	228124178	Inside C# (Microsoft Programming)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Very introductory book	If you want an easy to read introductory book on C#, this is probably the best so far. If you want to learn how to build real world apps, look elsewhere, as this book does not cover the .NET Framework classes.<br />This bears repeating: This book focuses on C# and not the .NET Framework classes. It is useful for learning C#, but it is not useful for learning how to build business apps. As all of your data access is folded up into the .NET Framework classes, you will not learn data access from this book.<br />While most of the code is simple enough to work under beta 2, the book was written using beta 1. I have yet to run into code that blows up (technical term ;-&gt;) under b2, but it is possible. Since it does not cover the Framework, it is probably safe.<br />The strong part of the book is the breakdown of both beginning and intermediate concepts and the plethora of code samples (have to install from the CD to use). Each concept has at least one sample, and some concepts have many more, each building on the first. <br />I have to rate this book as average, as it does not quite measure up completely to the cover copy. I kicked it up one star (to four) as it is an Inside book, which are typically aimed towards the developer/user that is just starting out in a technology. I would have knocked off stars if the code would not compile under b2, as it comes out in the next few weeks. Since it covers the language more than the Framework, this is not an issue.<br />I am sure there are those who think this rating is a bit high, but let me explain. If you are advanced, or have played with C#, this book is not for you. As it is not aimed for the advanced market, per se, I cannot fault the book for what it is.<br />Conclusion: If you want to learn the C# language and syntax, this is not a bad book. As it does not touch the .NET Framework classes, it will not be completely obsolete in a month, as will large sections of every other C# book. If you are interested in learning moreabout the Framework classes, and building real world apps, I would wait until the next round of books come out. Those in the next couple of months will most likely either be rushed or error ridden, so watch the reviews before buying.	2001-05-16
US	50436062	R554YXFHIK8UX	0735614466	836587447	Microsoft Visual Studio.Net (Pro- Developers)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Beta 2 changes everything	I started out giving this book a three star rating, as the articles are not that bad. Unfortunately, very little of the content has been updated for beta 2. There is still some content that is very useful for understanding the basics of .Net, but it is laced with material that only applies to beta 1. As such, it is really hard to recommend this book any more.<br />If Microsoft would publish an errata, to cover the changes for beta 2, this might be a slightly different story.	2001-05-16
US	50436062	RUZCF212QBJTJ	0735614458	431427120	Web Applications in the Microsoft .Net Frameworks	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Close to consensus with the other reviewers.	This is the weakest of the new Microsoft pamphlets. First off, they did not even fill the content, so the page count on sites is a bit off. Try 74 pages of content out of the 96 stated, with numerous blank pages.<br />The best article of the lot is the article on VSA, which is at least a bit more difficult to find online. Each article is available for free.<br />I do not rate the book low due to the fact the articles are avaiable for free. If the content were excellent, it should not matter where else you can get it. I feel content should be rated on content and not whether or not you can find it elsewhere. On the other hand, I do believe that running out a lot of articles aimed at ASP+ and ADO+ is reaching back awfully far. While each of these concepts still apply to ASP.Net, it is interesting how desperate a company can get to release content. <br />If Microsoft had released the books at a [lower]price..., this book would still not be a great buy, but it might be more palatable. The Visual Studio.Net book is the best of the MSDN content, and I even feel it is a bit overpriced.	2001-05-08
US	50436062	RV3SUOHDZYNZ	0735614466	836587447	Microsoft Visual Studio.Net (Pro- Developers)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	A Different Approach Than Other Reviewers.	I am going to take a different approach on the new Microsoft books than most reviewers. I am sure most will pan these books as pure drivel, but I am going to give them an average rating. Let's look at the reasoning for both sides.<br />The Content: Visual Studio.Net: Build Web Applications Faster and Easier Using Web Services and XML Unified IDE Maximizes Developer Productivity Preparing Your Visual Basic 6 Applications For the Upgrade to Visual Basic.Net Visual Basic for the Microsoft .Net Framework C# Introduction and Overview Sharp New Language: C# Offers the Power of C++ and the Simplicity of Visual Basic Programming in C#; Technobabble (from the MSDN Show) C#: A Message Queueing Application Introducing JScript.Net<br />I am certain that most of the people who pan this book is probably pretty peeved that you can get the content from the MSDN site. This is true. If you want to read online, do not buy this book, as most of the articles are easily accessible. Given this, the price is also a bit steep for the content, but this might be warranted by the nice picture of needle nose pliers on the cover (LOL). ;-&gt;<br />Now, what about the content. The articles are good articles. The best of the lot is probably the Visual Studio.Net article in the first chapter. If you get MSDN magazine, do not buy this book for this article alone, as it comes from the September 2000 issue.<br />Positives: The articles are decent articles, esp. the upgrading VB 6 article and both of the C# articles. The VB article has the newer version (updated online last month?), so it is still a good set of guidelines.<br />Negatives: No new content, although some has been updated. Most easily found for free on the web. Awfully thin for the price.<br />If you are in the habit of printing out articles rather than read online, or you are going on a trip and need a read, this is not a bad choice. I would search for the lowest price, as it is hard to warrant spending a large amount on content you can find elsewhere.<br />My personal opinion is I am going to hold onto the books. I have been meaning to read most of the material in the book, and have not taken the time. Comparing this to some of the 1 day .Net seminars I have been getting info on, the book has more material than some and costs a lot less.<br />My guess is Microsoft needs to get in the game to bring some more notice to .Net. As most books are designed to come out about the time the product ships, this beta book brings some notice to the Framework and its tools.	2001-05-08
US	50436062	R137KNG3HAB52D	0735614482	989507643	Microsoft C# Language Specifications (MSDN)	Books	3	17	20	N	N	About average	The content of this book ships with the MSDN library for Visual Studio.Net, at least most of it. The book drops out some of the holes in the MSDN library, which gives it a slight advantage.<br />As far as technical merit, this book rates above the rest of the C# books, with perhaps the exception of Gunnerson's book, which is sometimes a bit harder to read for understanding. Funny comment actually, since this is a spec doc and his book is supposed to teach.<br />The best book of the lot, as far as learning goes, is the Wrox book. Unfortunately, it is a bit inconsistent and goes from strong to weak depending on which chapter you read. It also spends a lot of time on the tools, which is not the reason you buy a book on a language.<br />If you are an experienced or intermediate developer, you can get a lot out of this book. If you are a beginner, I might hold off for something a bit easier to read through. You can get through this book, but I believe Inside C# or Wrox's book might be a better starting point.	2001-05-08
US	50436062	R38HO21VWYCSWW	073561444X	248326905	Microsoft .net Framework	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Okay Content, a bit thin	The content in the book is about average. Unfortunately, there are so few pages of content that it falls short. Of the new rechurn books (MSDN .net books -- content available for free online), this one is the worst.<br />It is interesting to read the interviews, but there are far too many. In fact, the book is mostly interviews and a .Net FAQ. The price is a bit expensive for content you can get for free online. <br />The best of the books is the Microsoft Visual Studio.Net. However, the best article is also from the September 2000 issue of MSDN. If you like to read online, or subscribe, do not get this book either.	2001-05-08
US	50436062	R2AJFKUHODJ7UE	1861004915	689919674	VB.NET Programming with the Public Beta	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Best of the lot cause its the only one in the lot	While I used to be an avid fan of Wrox's books (my bookshelf bleeds red), I am getting less and less enthralled with some of the newer books. It seems that being first out with a book, and thus taking the lion's share of the market, is more important than writing a really good book. And, that's too bad. Rocky has written some excellent books in the past. Too bad this is not on par with them. This is not saying that the book is awful (it isn't), just that it is not quite as great as it could have been. As such, I rate it right down the middle.<br />The first two chapters are largely background material (as mentioned by a previous reviewer). But, then so are chapters 3 - 7, if you look at it with a completely objective eye. This, in and of itself, is not a bad thing, but you do have to remember that the book is largely introductory. If you have not touched VB.Net with any depth, this is not a sticking point at all.<br />There are a few areas with some minor mistakes and some portions that appear as if they were written with the PDC version and never completely updated. Most of these appear in the chapters that cover the Framework proper, so they should not pose any problems and you probably will not even notice them<br />It is also annoying at times that going from chapter to chapter means re-reading the same material in different words, with a reference added to have me go back to the same material I have just read. If these were generally references back to material with much greater depth, the annoyance factor would be lessened. On the other hand, I like a book that has references to other chapters; when there is greater detail, this is a very good thing.<br />I also noticed a sense of deja vu when reading a couple of the chapters. Looking back into the Introducing.Net book, some of the material is verbatum. If you have not read the book, you will not notice this, but it caught me as strange as my read through the first couple chapters was late at night and I got that eerie sense that I had a book with repeat pages in it.<br />The book does provide a fairly well rounded presentation on the concepts of VB.Net. There are plenty of code samples to show you exactly how to code many things, and it covers a lot of VB6 code to help older VB Pros quickly move into VB.Net. As the book is aimed at VB and ASP developers, it hits this objective very nicely.<br />The cream of the book, IMHO, is found in chapters 8 - 10, which cover the more advanced topics of VB.Net. While I believe there are some missing, you should be able to pick them up if you read one of the books on C#. The code structure is different, but you can ferret out the concepts and relate them to VB.Net.<br />Overall, I was a little disappointeed ,as I was expecting a lot more depth from a book entitled VB.Net Programming with the Public Beta than I would a book called Introducing VB.Net. I am sure that more specific books are on the way as the technology ripens and goes gold.<br />Summary:<br />This is about an average IT book. Overall, it is fairly consistent, and, unlike some on the market, all of the code samples I have checked work (if you have bought many books in the past few years, this makes it well worth the price of admission). Note that I have not checked the code against the beta 2 changes so some of the concepts may be a bit dated in a few months.<br />This is the only book on VB.Net on the market right now. As your other alternative is to attempt to read the SDK help file and experiment, you can save a lot of time with this book. This makes it well worth the money, unless you do not consider your time valuable.<br />I hope that more VB.Net books hit the market soon to expand on the topics covered in this one. In the scheme of the entire IT book realm, this one is about average (3 stars). In the realm of VB.Net, it is currently running in a field of 1.	2001-02-28
US	50436062	R2BAC5UQT9M09Q	1893115860	657065208	A Programmer's Introduction to C#	Books	4	9	10	N	N	True to its calling	In the introduction to this book, Eric Gunnerson warns the reader that this is a book aimed at programmers. If you do not have quite a bit of experience programming, this is not the book for you. You would be better served by Wrox.<br />While I am a bit more fond of the Wrox book, as it is much easier to read and has plenty of real world code samples, I like Eric Gunnerson's approach to covering every aspect of the language.<br />This book is the most thorough book on C# in the market, and, if it were written a more casual tone, it would blow away any other book on the market. As it is, it is my number 2 book on the subject (Wrox's C# book is number 1 currently). However, if I want low level details, this is the first book I consult, so it has a definite place in my library.<br />One thing I have seen this book criticized is for its lack of an overview. Come on now, this is a C# book, and it stays true to its calling. Faulting a book because you failed to find out what it's about amounts to an unfair attack. Having said that, if you are looking for information on the .Net Framework, look elsewhere.<br />One thing of note. If you are low level enough that you can read through the .Net Framework help file and understand everything easily, this book may be a waste of time. For the rest, and for those of us who do not have time to decipher the spec, this book is the most detailed on the market and well worth the price.<br />If I had to choose between the three books currently on the market, I would choose the Wrox book to learn, this book to understand and the Introducing C# pamphlet to start a nice cozy fire to read by. ;-&gt;	2001-02-20
US	50436062	R2WC8E0JHMNFSR	0672320371	452357621	Presenting C# (Other Sams)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	First book, weakest of the lot	When this book first came out (around the time of the PDC last year in June), it was the only C# book on the market. As such, many of us clamored to get our hands on something while we waited to see who we could hork PDC CDs off of to install .Net. As such, the book sold quite a few copies, something it did not warrant.<br />There is nothing in this book that you cannot find in the help documentation. It is a rushed job that covers material you can find in two other books (more ont he way) in much more detail.<br />Note that I do not fault the author for the content in this book. The book was rushed to be given out as a free sample at the PDC. You can read some of Wille's articles on the web and find that he is a very competent programmer and author. However, this book has outlived its time.<br />If you are serious about learning C#, you would do much better to consider &quot;A Programmer's Introduction to C#&quot; or Wrox's &quot;C#, Programming with the Public Beta&quot;. The Wrox book is a bit easier to read, has better code samples and puts C# in perspective, while the Programmer's Introduction is much better at getting in depth in the inner workings of C#.<br />If this were July of last year, I might recommend this book a bit higher (although it still would not garner many stars), but there are much better books on the market now, so this pamphlet, er book, is a complete waste of time.	2001-02-20
US	50436062	R1SZV3U1026TUP	1861004877	455768068	C# Programming with the Public Beta	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Best of the lot, so far	Once again, it seems like Wrox is rushing to be the first with a comprehensive work. Fortunately, this one is better than the book Introducing .Net. And, for sheer learning, it is the best book on C# on the market so far (still awaiting Inside C# from MSPress to see if they up the ante).<br />The first couple of chapters deal with very introductory level information. If you have been studying .Net, you will likely skim through these chapters. While there is some useful information, there are plenty of resources on this material.<br />The rest of the book breaks into C#. If you are a language purist, and good at reading material that is more like specs, you will likely find Eric Gunnerson's book more up your alley. For the rest of us, this tome is a far better option.<br />Of particular note is the fact that chapters have been thrown in on using COM and COM+ with .Net. As the help file is largely garbage on this, and experimentation is the way most of us are learning this, it is nice to have a runthrough of how to use legacy code (is it okay to call COM legacy now?) in our .Net apps.<br />The ASP.Net chapter gives enough information to get you started, but a few more chapters would have really added some meat to the book.<br />My personal favorite is the assemblies and manifests chapter, as the other C# books do very little to broach these subjects. <br />One thing I would like to see, once the technology has settled down (beta 2 is supposed to be feature complete), is a book on the .Net framework. I disagree that this book should have been the book to concentrate on that, but a bit more in depth traveling into the base classes would have been nice.<br />I am thankful that Wrox decided on four authors for this one, instead of the trend, as of late, of publishing yearbooks. It makes for a bit more consistent ride and less overlap of material from chapter to chapter. There are also fewer holes in this book than the Introducing .Net book.<br />If you want to get into C#, this is the book (at least as of February 2001). Once the technology is complete, all bets are off.	2001-02-13
US	50436062	R2OGZR2YALXUOX	1861004893	644443991	Introducing .NET	Books	3	62	63	N	N	New technology - average information	I own quite a few Wrox books. For awhile, they were consistently the best programmers books on the market. Unfortunately, this new trend to be the first with new technologies is lessening the quality of the newer books. Not that this book is bad; it's just not as good as their other works. This book is about average. While that is not bad, it is not as impressive as earlier works.<br />The first two chapters contain the same material I have seen in presentations by Wrox author Billy Hollis, so it was largely an overview I had already seen. The information contained in these chapters is very useful, however, if you want to get a good overview of how .Net and the CLR (Common Language Runtime) work. The same holds true for Chapter 5 (the IDE - VS.Net), chapter 6 (.Net class framework) and chapter 12 (.Net servers).<br />The Introduction to C# is an interesting chapter, but is little more than an overview. Written by Burt Harvey, it contains a similar bent as some of the chapters in the C# Programming with the Public Beta, which you should invest in, if you are serious about C# programming (it is the best C# book on the market, although Gunnerson's is a close second). My favorite code sample (downloadable) is the life simulation application (useless to web programming, but a neat little app).<br />The What's New in Visual Basic chapter is largely a wash for me. If you have not read the articles in VBPJ, or on MSDN, the VB article is a good overview. If sample code is your thrust, either wait for the VB.Net book, or download the code on ibuyspy.com, which contains much more useful code.<br />Chapters 7 to 10 are the meat of the book, delving into both web forms and windows forms applications. You will start with a decent overview of ASP.Net and end with .Net components. Chapter 11 is a nice intro to ADO.Net, but I am still waiting for a tome with deeper info on this subject. The final chapter has an interesting ASP.Net case study. As of this writing, the code is not available for download yet on chapters 10 to 13.<br />Finishing off, Appendix A is a bit weak, although it has a nice introductory framework reference. I feel that Appendix B has much more intrinsic value (how to use classic COM with .Net), but the topic is covered failry well on the net, so it is not worth the price of the book alone.<br />Currently, this is the best introduction to .Net on the market. It is also the only introduction to .Net. Considering the stage .Net is in, this is a great book. From a standpoint of what Wrox generally delivers, however, I would have to say this one is average.	2001-02-01
US	50436062	R3KPRZ4M1BQ4RD	0735611297	590949690	Microsoft® SQL Server 2000 Administrator's Pocket Consultant	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Lots of punch for those without a laptop	Reading through the Microsoft SQL Server 2000 Administrator's Pocket Consultant, I was was immediately impressed by the breadth of the information in the volume, despite its small size. Of course, to call it a pocket consultant, you would have to have large pockets (perhaps Microsoft pocket 2.0 -- bad joke).<br />The downside to this work, is that it is largely a rehash, in simpler terms, of the SQL books online. If you are a consultant, and own a laptop, you will probably get more mileage out of carrying it around. However, for those who have not gone completely e-book, this work occupies little space and has more than enough information for most admin tasks.<br />I also recommend this book for admins moving up to SQL Server 2000 from either 7.0 or 6.5, as it gives a concise overview of the adminstration of the new server. <br />While it does not cover every aspect of SQL Server 2000, it covers a large percentage of the material a heavy duty admin would need to know and near-100% (if not 100%) of the information for every day administration.<br />I would give this one 5 stars, and probably should for the intended audience, but I feel the fact that a great majority of the material is just more concise books online information, that the major appeal is the fact that it is on paper.	2000-11-10
US	50436062	R99AXS7M8GIVC	0072125004	388239258	MCSE Windows 2000 Accelerated Study Guide (Exam 70-240) (Book/CD-ROM package)	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Not as enthusiastic	Looking at the reviews from this book, you would think it is the perfect book to study for the Windows 2000 accelerated exam, but I am not as enthusiastic about it. I would still rate it average to above average, but I have some reservations about 5 stars.<br />My largest reservation with this book is the methodology with which the author's teach. Having written introductory articles and taught classes, the direction taken to explain Active Directory is a bit deplorable. There were moments I had to step back and think about the concepts to stop myself from being confused. Consider this: if an early adopter of Windows 2000 who has programmed against Active Directory needs to go back to the Resource Kit and firm concepts, how confusing could this be to someone who has never touched it?<br />On the plus side, the book has numerous video lessons (on the CD) along with &quot;real-world&quot; lab exercises. These should help you get through any confusing verbage without too many problems. <br />One more thing. While I believe this tome to be about average, there is apparently not much competition (looking at reviews of other &quot;error ridden&quot; works). And, despite the sub par teaching style employed in some sections, the audience here is current MCSEs rather than newbies. This alone makes me bump this review up from 3 stars to 4. If the 70-240 exam was available for everyone, I would have to knock this one down a peg or two.	2000-11-07
US	50436062	R25MVHC6411T3K	0735607966	246850982	Developing XML Solutions (DV-MPS General)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good basic book	Unlike the other recent release from MSPress (XML and SOAP Programming for BizTalk Servers), this one actually has a lot of useful content. Unfortunately, so little of it is far enough advanced to give me a real reason to recommend it.<br />Don't get me wrong, the content will be very useful overall for anyone who has not developed full-blown applications using XML (judging from the hands up at the latest DevDays event, less than 1% of the Microsoft developers present have given XML more than a cursory glance). <br />For those who have developed XML solutions before, you will find the first few chapters a quick run through (at least until you get to schemas); there will be very little useful information unless you need a bit of trivia on XHTML.<br />Beyond those chapters, you will find some substance in the chapters on SOAP, BizTalk and schemas (as there is so little written material outside of Microsoft and the W3C on this one). <br />Until there are better books on the market, this one should give you a nice start on developing solutions. On the plus side, you do not have to learn Omnimark (see review on XML and SOAP Programming for BizTalk Servers).	2000-10-22
US	50436062	R1WXHFT17VYAZ8	0735611262	342988512	XML and Soap Programming for BizTalk Servers (DV-MPS Programming)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good stuff with some extraneous material	I have to admit, I generally like MSPress books. While generally a bit shorter than some of the other publisher's books, they tend to have a lot of meat in them. XML and SOAP programming is no exception. The problem here is that a large chunk of this tome is dedicated to extraneous material.<br />The first half of this book is great if you need some background on XML. While much of this material is interesting, it is skimming material for most of us who have developed with XML before and want to focus on SOAP and BizTalk. When the book finally does get into SOAP and BizTalk, the earlier material sets a nice stage, so this material is not a complete waste of time.<br />The material on SOAP and BizTalk is quite nice and includes some examples in Visual Basic, so you are given a succinct intro to coding your own SOAP/BizTalk applications. The book focuses on schemas rather than DTDs, so some of the material is a bit bleeding edge. However, with Microsoft's commitment to tools to move from bleeding to leading edge, your development time will not be a waste. As schemas are more explicit and useful, I applaud the author on taking the journey out on this limb.<br />The useful material of this book finishes with information on setting up your own BizTalk server. The rest of the book is largely wasted on SOAP and BizTalk references and a primer on the Omnimark language. To be fair, the SOAP and Biztalk references are not taken verbatim from the W3C spec, so they do add some value. I am not quite as thrilled about the Omnimark tutorial, although it might come in handy some day.<br />To be fair to Mr. Travis, the book covers the major elements of the technologies it is scoped to cover (XML, SOAP and BizTalk) and does so in an easy-reading, fun manner. It will not make you a BizTalk or SOAP expert, but it will give you enough material to get to work.<br />In summary, this is a very nice book if you are using Microsoft tools to develop B2B E-Commerce applications. However, it isalso useful for those on other platforms as a basic primer. It can also help you develop cross-platform applications, but only if you choose Omnimark as your cross-platform developing language.	2000-09-23
US	50436062	R150AVJWNN9IXW	0735609683	590104012	Designing for Scalability with Microsoft Windows DNA (DV-MPS Designing)	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Practical book for Windows distributed programming in VB	As an Internet programmer working with Microsoft technologies, I have had a hard time finding decent books covering Windows DNA in a practical manner. The problem is that a great deal of the distributed programming  books either a) are all theory or b) have C++ examples to show the  implementation of COM in the &quot;real world&quot;. It is nice to finally  have a book that covers the theory of distributed applications with  examples in Visual Basic. &quot;Designing for Scalability with Microsoft  Windows DNA&quot; is a lovely primer in Windows DNA programming for the  Internet. Using technologies like MTS (NT 4), COM+ and XML, this book deals  with some practical answers to real business problems.<br /> There are a  couple of shortcomings I find with the book, however. First off, I disagree  with some of the XML methodology employed. Having built VB COM Internet  apps using the IE5 XML DOM, I find much of the information presented is  trivial. As it aims for the Intermediate audience, I find this shortcoming  minor. The other is the push to use DHTML as the UI. In the current state  of the Internet, this is not a real option. This may not be a problem with  Intranet developers.<br /> The coverage of COM+ is decent, but it would be  nicer if more information was included on moving from MTS (Chapter 14) to  COM+ (Chapter 16). I believe the assumption was that you would be using one  or the other. As many &quot;legacy&quot; apps move to Win2K, this will not  be the case.<br /> Overall, this is a nice introduction to developing  distributed COM and COM+ applications. If you are interested in more of the  OO concepts that COM and COM+ are based on, the Microsoft Visual Basic  Design Patterns book (also MS Press) is a wonderful work to complement the  theory found here.	2000-05-11
US	50436062	R2RHY9VO4DFHTE	1572319577	152838604	Microsoft Visual Basic Design Patterns (DV-MPS General)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Finally a chance to apply patterns to VB	One of the main reasons that Visual Basic has not received respect from  the OO world is that it lacks a few features that the OO purist is used to  having, namely Implementation Inheritance and the ability to overload and  override functions. While VB 7 is slated for these features, it is nice to  have a book that shows you methods around these shortcomings today.<br />  Stamatakis' book begins with an intro to both design patterns (Object  Oriented methodologies) and the OOP methodology of Visual Basic. He goes  over the Visual Basic implementation of OOP and shows methods to get around  areas where VB falls short. He then covers the basics of COM necessary to  creating distributed (Object based) software. The rest of the book covers  individual patterns of VB OO development and includes scenarios for use,  ramifications of using along with copious example code (the CD sample code  alone is worth the ticket price).<br /> The book borrows from Design Patterns  (Erich Gamma, et al) and applies the theory to Visual Basic development. If  you are serious about developing VB COM components, this book should be  part of your library.	2000-05-11
US	50436062	R2VQDMUNOVLXIQ	0735607338	505766000	Practical Standards for Microsoft Visual Basic (DV-MPS General)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice start on developing standards for your VB Code	If you have come here looking for a book on how to code VB, look elsewhere. If instead, you are looking to develop maintainable code amongst all the developers in your organization, you have come to the right  place.<br /> In the present development world we often code for performance at  the expense of all other aspects of development (maintainability,  scalability, etc.). A good set of standards will take you far down the path  to maintainable code and poor maintainability is often more expensive to an  organization (at least in the long run) than poor performance.<br /> We have  taken many of the standards here and altered them to the style of the  majority of our programmers. By using internally developed VB templates, we  have decreased development time without sacrificing quality. This is not  fully attributable to this book alone, but the new focus on standards has  certainly played a role.<br /> If you are serious about developing in a team  environment, you will want to develop organizational standards for your  team. It will save your company time and money and make it easier for your  development team to communicate.	2000-05-11
US	50436062	R2JKAH7C7HL5C4	0789721260	715218436	WebClasses From Scratch	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Turn a classroom experiment into a book for money	A few months back, the company I consult for decided to experiment with webclasses. Looking for books, I found this tome in Sam's for less than $10. Since I am starting off this review with this qualifier, you should be  able to tell I am not particularly enamored with this book.<br />If you are an  beginner, and do not mind a writer patronizing you at every turn, you might  actually be able to glean something from the book in between the diatribes  explaining how Mr. Liberty wrote a book about almost every subject in the  world of computing, as in the comment: &quot;This book is not about  object-oriented analysis and design. I already wrote one of those...&quot;  (Chapter 3) and &quot;If that is the case, run right out and buy my  misnamed book ...' (Chapter 1).<br />Mr. Liberty, as a C++ programmer also has a  total disdain for Visual Basic, as shown in the following quote: &quot;VB  has been something of a toy I've played with in the past but not a language  that I would have considered using to build a robust, extensible,  maintainable, high-performance commercial application.&quot; <br />Mr. Liberty  also shows his lack of knowledge in Visual InterDev when he states that the  two tremendous drawbacks to ASP is that it is hard to debug and the code is  mixed with HTML. While it is true that ASP is mixed with HTML, I would  hardly say that this is necessarily a tremendous drawback. In a  performance-only comparison, inline code suffers compared to compiled code,  but when you consider other dynamics of application development, such as  maintainability, ASP, especially when used as presentation-layer only, wins  over compiled code in many ways. As to the &quot;hard to debug&quot; issue,  this is only a problem if you a) do not know how to use the InterDev  debugging tools and/or b) if you consider true debugging to be running  symbolic debug information through the C++ debugging tools.<br />Mr. Liberty  also shows his lack of keeping up with changes in Visual Basic by the use  of the deprecated While ... Wend loops. This is understandable for a C++  programmer who uses VB as a toy, but should not rear its ugly head in a  Visual Basic book.<br />In all fairness to this work, those who learn by  example will find quite a bit of code to run through in this book. While  the details are sketchy on many subjects, the book does cover webclasses to  a certain extent. Of course, since the material is very much like a  classroom experiment, you will have to figure out how to apply this to your  own projects.<br />If you are serious about Visual Basic Internet  applications, the Wrox book VB6 Web Programming is a much better bet as it  covers far more than just webclasses.	2000-02-03
