US	50437337	REDXMH0XF0S6Q	0679412956	791939496	Lasher (Lives of the Mayfair Witches)	Books	2	17	21	N	N	The second star is out of  respect for the author	I was very surprised when I read this book.  It is so uncharacteristically bad that I don't even know where to begin.  The ending in the &quot;Witching Hour&quot; was quite abrupt so I was greatly anticipating to  read the sequel.  First of all, what is the point of naming the book after  a character and spend so little time devoted only to him.  I understand  that Lasher's presence affects every Mayfair but I expected to either have  Lasher narrate the book or have his story (just his) on the frontburner.   Neither happened.  My second complaint is inconsistency in character  development.  Although I didn't care much for Michael in the &quot;Witching  Hour&quot;, he sank very low in &quot;Lasher&quot;.  Rowan, so strong and  cool in the beginning of the &quot;Witching Hour&quot;, becomes a sobbing,  blabbering mess at the end and that continues throughout  &quot;Lasher&quot;.  Also, there are too many inconsistencies to mention in  Lasher's character (the being he was before the Mayfairs is vastly  different than what he was during and both are remarkably different than  what he became after).  Although some vague reason is given, there is not  enough evience for this sudden and unexpected change unless you buy the  explaination that &quot;he's evil&quot;.  But the most disappointing  character of all is Aaron.  He suddenly looks and acts like a mindless  idiot, instead of a true gentleman and gentle watcher that he was in the  &quot;Witching Hour&quot;.  <br />The &quot;Talamasca&quot; controversy did  not bother or interest me very much.  Plus, it was not explored very well.   And what's the point of introducing a new character, giving him a deep and  enchanting background, and dropping him until the very and then spending  miniscule amount of time intigrating him with the action?  I know that  there is another sequel &quot;Taltos&quot; but this is ridiculous.   &quot;Lasher&quot; should stand on its own, not be just a transitional  piece between the beginning &quot;The Witching Hour&quot; and conclusion  &quot;Taltos&quot;.<br />Other new or newly developped characters that I came  to hate:  were Gifford (what a pining, whining mess), Beatrice (she's so  unnecessary and does not match well with Aaron), Ryan (a bore), Pierce (a  younger version, but still a bore), and, the most unlikable character I  have EVER read about -- Mona.  I understand that part of her appeal is that  she is 13 years old going on 40, in everything including brains and sexual  experience, but she is actually MORE unlikable than Rowan which I thought  was impossible.  I just REALLY did not like her.  It might have had nothing  to do with the author, but since I didn't like her, I couldn't get passed  mentions of her fast enough.<br />Another important and distressing trend in  &quot;Lasher&quot; is that history is re-written.  Julien loses all of his  charm and becomes a cliche.  Mary Beth, my favorite Mayfair woman, also  loses her luster and becomes just another pathetic excuse for a woman.  It  just painful to read and wonder what happened.<br />Finally, I could care less  for Lasher's story.  When you finally learn what it is, you don't feel  sympathy or understanding, you are just more confused than ever.  If he  knew all the consequences, why would he intentionally hurn anyone?  The  reason:  he's evil.  That is the best that Anne Rice can come up with?  If  that is the case, than I am truly sad.<br />The only good thing about the  whole book were the characters of Yuri and Ancient Evelyn.  I truly liked  Yuri and wished that Anne Rice did not take him in the direction that she  did.  (Those of you who read the book know what I mean).  Ancient Evelyn is  extremely original and much more sympathetic than her great-granddaughter  Mona. Also, it's good that she does not go into describing what happened in  the &quot;Witching Hour&quot;.  That way, whatever sorry action that exists  in this novel, can be propelled forward.<br />I refuse to read  &quot;Taltos&quot; because I honestly do not want to find out if she sinks  any lower.	2000-06-15
US	50437337	RZ8MBW3JP3AQW	0345373707	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A lush historical novel	I had no idea what this book was about when I decided to pick it up in the library and read it.  The first line struck me like lightning.  I had to re-read a couple of times before the meaning sank in.  I have never read a  book on castrati singers before and, except for Farinelli, have never heard  of any other famous castrati and, to tell the truth, never thought much  about what the costs of being a castrato singer were.  Anne Rice changed  all that.  The story of Tonio and Guido was so vivid with every emotion  that the main characters were feeling that it is hard to remain unaffected  after reading this novel. The plot moves speedily but at times it is too  convoluted and too convenient.  On emotional level, the novel works  extremely well.<br />To addressed some of the criticisms in the previous  reviews, I agree that the sexual relationships (be they heterosexual or  homosexual) were a tad too explicit but that is the staple of all of Anne  Rice's novels so I was not that bothered by them.  I wasn't bothered by the  characterization of Christine also.  I agree that she was bland and  uninteresting, or at least not as interesting as she could have been given  her unique postion as a female painter during the times where female  artists were rare, but I think that her presence in the novel as Tonio's  salvation was well realized.<br />I absolutely loved the description of  Tonio's revenge and admired the author for making some hard and  heart-breaking choices.  This is the most original novel that I have read  in a while and definately worth the read.	2000-05-30
US	50437337	RONS3H3IODGPT	0394587863	470794658	The Witching Hour	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An intriguing tale	This book has one little problem:  It is about 400 pages too big.  The book packs punch with the history of the Mayfair Witches which is described for 300-400 pages in the middle of the book.  In this description, the  first 200+ pages are summarized.  A question beckons:  Why bother reading  the first 250+ pages?  There is no good answer.  The only interesting story  in the first part of the book is of Michael Curry and his romance with  Rowan Mayfair.  This is spilled over a hundred pages but could have been  told just as well in fifty.  The history of the Mayfair Witches is  extremely intriguing.  So intriguing in fact, that nothing compares before  or after it.  The rest of the book is a bit stale and the final  confrontation is so weak and completely unresolved that unless you continue  on to the sequel, you will be left unsastisfied.<br />One of the biggest  problems in the whole book is that the character that supposed to be the  most interesting, Rowan Mayfair, is extremely unlikable.  Like Aaron, I  could not warm up to her.  And then, right when I became used to her  too-smart-and-cool-for-her-own-good persona, she becomes a weak, weeping  woman that is pathetic.  Michael is a better character but he is depicted  as so trusting that he appears weak.  The only characters that I really  admired were Aaron and Carlotta.  Carlotta might be an evil character but  at least she stays true to her nature.  Aaron is truly the hero of this  novel:  principaled and unjudgemental, he is the only character in the  novel that I liked and admired.<br />As I said before, the history of the  Mayfair Witches is the most interesting part of the whole book.  I  especially liked the characters of Deborah, Mary Beth, and Deidre.   Charlotte, Julien, and Cortland were a little bit demented and scary.   Katherine, Stella, and Antha were just too pathetic. The most disappointing  character of all was Lasher.  I expected for him to be a debonnaire and  intriguing figure like Lestatin &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot;,  but he is far from being &quot;irresistable&quot; as Anne Rice wants us to  believe.<br />I recommend the reading of the history but advise to skim all  the rest.	2000-05-30
US	50437337	R3C1J6JTNAS9ZW	0312154305	237942375	The Memoirs of Cleopatra: A Novel	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Cleopatra's life from beginning to end	I was excited to read about Cleopatra from the author of such a wonderful historical novel as &quot;Autobiography of Henry VIII&quot;.  I was also glad that she reverted to using the first person narrative after the less  successful re-telling of the story of Mary, Queen of Scotts.  I have to say  that I enjoyed &quot;The Memoirs of Cleopatra&quot;, but it still fell  short of my expectations.<br />The biggest problem I had when reading this  book is to tune out &quot;Masters of Rome&quot; series of books by Colleen  McCullough.  After reading the series, I could only look at the history of  Ancient Rome through McCullough's eyes and any departure from her  story-telling did not sit well with me, even though Margaret George could  have been more accurate with her description.<br />The first disparity was the  identity of Cleopatra's mother.  In &quot;Memoirs of Cleopatra&quot;, she  is described as Ptolemy VII's half-sister.  In &quot;Fortune's  Favorites&quot; and &quot;Caesar's Women&quot; by Colleen McCullough, she  is described as a daughter of King Mithradates of Pontus.  This little  detail is probably insignificant but McCullough's version makes Cleopatra's  connection to Rome's enemies poignant.  Also, McCullough describes an  affair between Caesar and Mithradates Nysa, who is in her version  Cleopatra's mother's sister or Cleopatra's aunt.  It would have been an  interesting connection to explore if Margaret George decided to follow this  version of Cleopatra's story as well.  Although she did not explore any of  these possibilities, I kept thinking about all of these connections and  that hindered my enjoyment of the novel.<br />The most interesting paradox  between the two treatments of Cleopatra's story is the character of Caesar.   McCullough devotes all of her books in the series so  far to him and he  comes out to be a completely different person than Margaret George makes  him out to be in &quot;The Memoirs of Cleopatra&quot;.  I have to agree  withGeorge's depiction of Caesar.  He is shown as an almost unfalliable  person that he undoubtly was (almost being the imperitive word here since  McCullough makes him god on earth).  However, by this time, I have already  bought into McCullough's legend of Caesar so it was a bit disappointing to  read about this human version.<br />Other characters that appear in both  places confused me.  I liked Marc Antony in George's version better because  he appeared as more complex individual than in McCullough's version.  In  her books, he is just a beast in human clothing.  Octavian is shown with  more potential for later brilliance in McCullough's version, so that is why  I like him better in her novles.  George makes his emergence unexpected  although she writes from Cleopatra's point of view and that might be how  she perceived him.  Fulvia is too one-dementional in George's version --  she's just some shameless hussy who can't live without a man by her side.   I think Fulvia was too unique and interesting (after all she captured the  imaginations of Claudius, Curio, and Antony -- very different and strong  individuals) for her time to have so little said about her.  But again  Cleopatra's perception of her might have been different.<br />The characters  that appear only in George's version are extremely well realized.  Olympus  and Mardian were fascinating and the author really let us get to know them.   Ptolemy Caesar appears as such a wonderful and brilliant boy that his fate  is truly tragic.  The Kandake was also an unusual strong femal role-model  that is hardly, if ever, heard of in the story of Cleopatra.<br />Cleopatra  herself is a wonderful character.  George did a wonderful job getting  inside her psyche.  She was certainly brilliant and a good politian who,  alas, followed her heart more often than her reason.  I like the way George  makes a distinction between Cleopatra's love for Caesar and her love for  Antony.  The best scene in the whole book is the planand description of  Cleopatra's death.  It is amazing that the author can make the readers feel  triumphant that this woman is killing herself.<br />The biggest problems with  this novel is that it is too long and there are inconsistancies in the  description.  Cleopatra's stay in Rome is hard to reconcile with history  because of so many inconsistancies.  For example, how could she cross the  pomerium into the city of Rome if no annoited ruler can do that?  The  length is really felt here because some key moments in time are summarized  while superfluous details are elaborated to the point of boredom.<br />All in  all, this is a great epic on Cleopatra's life.	2000-05-30
US	50437337	R3R44OIES9EDDM	0786210451	43418846	Pretty Boy Floyd	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An great adventure novel with dose of reality	I really liked this book mainly for two reasons: 1)  It is based on a true story 2)  It was VERY fast-paced<br />Over the years, I read almost everything by Larry McMurtry and have not yet been disappointed.  &quot;Pretty Boy  Floyd&quot; is a very enjoyable romp.  It approaches every character and  situation with light-hearted attitude and excitement but does not allow too  much time to pass by before reminding the readers that there are  consequences for every action and a certain point after which you can never  turn back and make ammends.<br />Charlie appears to be a larger-than-life  character.  He is kind and courtuous to everyone he meets, unless he takes  immediate dislike to a person or that person is shooting at him, and  although he has moments when he's blue or his temper flares up, he is hard  not to like.  The novel abounds with fun characters;  from sensible but  vulnerable Ruby, Charlie's wife, prescious Dempsey, Charlie's son, spunky  Beluah, Charlie's girlfriend, smart and sassy Ma Ash, Charlie's mentor,  George Birdwell, Charlie's partner in crime and a cowboy at heart, Bob  Birdwell who is the most original character in the novel and etc.  The only  problem with the whole novel is that it has too many characters and not  enough space devoted to each one.  The authors take the time to describe  Charlie's victims and random people who cross his path but they spend too  little time on them for us to care about or too much time to let us know  that they were real people and good too.  <br />I don't think that this novel  glorifies Charlie in any way.  On the contrary, I think a more apt title  for this novel is &quot;Crime does not pay&quot;.  For all the hoopla  surrounding Charlie's life and career, the fact remains that he died at 30  and never could lead the life he truly wanted.	2000-05-24
US	50437337	R3EYSRWHBA2EN0	0312194390	627904901	The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great portrait of a humane Henry VIII!	Margaret George took a story that has been told numerous times before and breathed a new life into it.  Having Henry VIII's story from Henry's point of view was a stroke of genius.  Many books have speculated about what  motivated Henry to do the things that he did (breaking with Catholicism,  having so many wives and disposing of them, same goes for his ministers  Wosley and Cromwell and etc.) but Margaret George actually goes inside  Henry's head.  The portrait she paints is that of a vain but vulnderable  man who wants greatness and cherishes the simpe things in life:  like  having a picnic with friends or hunting.  From a vigorous man full of hope  Henry slowly turns into a mass of flesh, full of regrets and reflection.   Henry presents the circumstances of his life as being beyond his control   and he has to act the part of the king throughout, which means making hard  choices.  Margaret George makes Henry sound so convincing that by the time  he sends that person or other to their death, the reader feels sorry for  Henry instead of the real vicitim.  Although it is a nice sentiment, making  Henry a victim of circumstances seems to be an easy way out.  But on the  other hand, that is probably how he WOULD see himself.  The comments by  Will Sommers are very cleverly combined with Henry's narrative and provides  well as a reality check.  All in all, this is a great achievement.  The  800+ pages flew by as I became emersed in Henry's story.  Of all the books  I read by Margaret George, this is the best.  I do have one comment:  Anne  Boleyn's demise was not as well done as everything else in the novel.  Her  being a witch and mass murderess lies on a shaky foundation and it seems  Henry was too eager to jump to conclusions.  However, no other reason for  his being disenchanted with her is hinted at.	2000-05-19
US	50437337	RK8O6V5A6SRHR	067086661X	682605807	The Serpent Garden	Books	1	3	13	N	N	Preposterous!	This was a HUGE let-down from &quot;The Oracle Glss&quot;.  I can't believe that the same author wrote the two novels.  Except for some resemblance in style of story-telling and attention to detail, these two  were nothing alike.  Where were the witty remarks?  the trademark mixture  of cynicism and humor?  sprinkles of spirituality or mysticism?  Gone!  All  of that was gone and in its place was this mess that is not worth the paper  it is written on.<br />The premise is great:  There is a great painter at the  court of Henry VIII who, however unwittingly, helps bring on the  conspiracies in France over the portrait of Princess Mary, Henry's favorite  younger sister.  The gimic is that the painter is a woman.  That is as good  as this book gets.  The rest is just total nonesense.  <br />Before I go into  why I really did not like this book, I should point out what I did like. I  really liked anything that had to do with painting.  The author has an  amazing way of describing everything so vividly that you can actually feel  the atmosphere.  Thus, the painter's studio came alive and all the  discussions of how painters have to get their wages and how to paint nude  portraits are quite informative.   The female characters are strong, at  times stronger, than the male characters.  I especially liked Louise of  Savoy and Marguerite, the future Queen of Navarre.  There was not enough  written about them to satisfy my interest, but I enjoyed whatever scraps of  information the author chose to provide.  <br />I did not like ANY of the male  characters because they were too one-dimensional and were always either  evil or dumb or both.  Ashton was so dumb and naive that even though he  became more interesting later on I could not warm up to him.  Crouch, the  evil genius, was a lot of fun but too evil.  &quot;The Oracle Glass&quot;  did not have wholly evil or wholly good character.  It is the mixture that  made it interesting.  &quot;The Serpent Garden&quot; has only a fewcategories in which the characters fall into.  The supernatural twist which  was spiritual in &quot;Vision of Light&quot; and in &quot;The Oracle  Glass&quot; is so bad that at times it is hard to believe that the author  actually wrote this down.  She provides it for comic relief but there is no  laughter here.  It is just extremely sad that the only thing that the  author could come up with when writing about angels and demons is a  pathetic demon who is too dumb and a pathetic angel of art who wants to set  up a corporation to take care of his inspiration business.  It might sound  funny but it is not.  The way the author presents all of this is one long  nightmare.<br />Also, it would have been interesting to see the thirteen  portraits that are described in the novel.  The author could have drawn  something herself or could have found the equivalent in some art catologs.   In any case, there should have been more effort put into this aspect of the  novel.<br />I was so disappointed in this novel that it reduced my desire to  read all of this author's work.  &quot;Vision of Light&quot; and &quot;The  Oracle Glass&quot; are wonderful, especially &quot;The Oracle Glass&quot;,  as the author mixes up every genre to come up with something original and  interesting.  &quot;The Serpent Garden&quot; is a very lazy effort that  might have seemed like a good idea at the time but really fails on all  fronts.	2000-03-22
US	50437337	RZHXD65GKQS5X	0449910067	661337944	The Oracle Glass: A Novel	Books	5	70	72	N	N	Can't help but fall in love with this book!	This is the best book I have read in a long time.  Maybe, the best one EVER!  I never knew that combining so many genres and characters could result in a stunning achievement!  This is the kind of book that makes you want to wish that it never ended.  So, when it did, I just started from the  beginning.  I never got bored!<br />I was apprehensive about reading &quot;The  Oracle Glass&quot; because I have not read anything by this writer before.   I got hooked after reading the book jacket because the time of Louis XIV is  my favorite period in French history.  I have read many books about the  real-life characters in this novel, but never were they more hilariously,  and accurately!, portrayed than in &quot;The Oracle Glass&quot;!<br />The main  character, Genivieve Pasquier, is refreshing.  She is not just very  intelligent and well-educated, but clever, witty, and has a dramatic flair.   The author takes a chance on making her beauty unconventional.  Genivieve  has one foot shorter than the other, she is all twisted, and has uncommon,  non-classical, features.  After the famous sorceress, La Voisin, takes  Genivieve under her wing, she does not change her appearance but changes  the way people look at Genivieve.  I thought that this part was very well  thought out.  It proves that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder and a  person is deemed beautiful when they let their inner radiance shine.  The  fact that she is able to dupe everyone to believe that she is the Marquise  de Morville, a 150-year old woman who maintains her youth, is a great  lesson in human nature.  I also appreciate the fact that she is an  independent woman, trying to make a living in a man's world, and succeeding  admirably.  <br />All central characters are interesting and well drawn out,  without being one-dimensional:  Marie-Angelique, Genivieve's sister, is  light-headed and supercilious, but she is also kind and devoted to  Genivieve.  Andre Lamotte is utterly charming and carefree, but he is  capable of deep emotions.  D'Urbec is very complex, with many facets to his  personality, capable of fierce emotions from different ends of the  spectrum.  LaReynie and Desgrez are at times upright and serious and, at  the same time, wily and dubious.  Although Genivieve's mother, uncle, and  brother are evil and insane, there is a lot of pain in them because of  their lowly position in life.  Finally, La Voisin is the most mysterious  and complicated character of all.  She has many motives and agendas.  You  never know what she's thinking or what she is planning to do.  She does a  lot of wicked things, but she does them because she does not have another  alternative.  Women at that time could only look to wealthy patronage or  prostitution to get ahead.<br />This book is full of little details that are  hilarious.  One such thing is the parrot, Larito.  For most of the book,  his only utterances are &quot;Hell and damnation&quot; and &quot;Fire and  brimstone&quot;.  Of course, he utters them at the most peculiar moments  setting the stage for the hilarity that fills this book as much as tragedy  does.  <br />The only things that I did not like were that there was a list of  fictional characters in the beginning of the book.  I understand that the  list of real-life characters is valuable, but the list of fictional  characters is unnecessary.  The first-time readers know in advance what  characters are coming up and that spoils some of the book's surprises.  I  also would have appreciated a better background of La Voisin in the novel  itself.  It would have been interesting to know where she came from and how  she came to be the greatest sorceress of that time.<br />Overall, this is a  great book.  I have never read a book that combines romance, mystery,  adventure, and the supernatural so successfully.  The greatest thing about  this book is that all the characters have their vices, which does not  diminish them in the readers' eyes at all.  On the contrary, it is easier  to suspend disbelief and sympathize with them.<br />I recommend this book to  absolutely everyone.  Read it and you won't be disappointed.	2000-03-07
US	50437337	RQCANYVR7UTG5	0679725733	111847135	Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A worthy sequel to a great novel	&quot;Claudius the God&quot; is a great book, but it is noticeably worse than its predecessor.  For one, it is more somber than &quot;I, Claudius&quot;.  This would have been fine if the account was more truthful  to history, but it is still quite preposterous, so the lack of humor takes  something away from the narrative.<br />I liked the characters, such as Herod  Agrippa and Messalina, but felt that their complexities were not all  revealed.  Herod Agrippa is interesting as a rascal with the heart of gold,  but his plotting to take over the East is told through the dispatches of a  personal enemy to Claudius.  Although this is how Claudius found out about  his actions, I feel that his story should have been told in a story-like  fashion, and then Claudius could have pointed out how he came by such  information.<br />Messalina was an intriguing character but Graves made her  evil without any further explaination.  Nobody becomes evil overnight.  He  also failed in excusing Claudius for not seeing Messalina's faults.   Although he is supposed to have loved her beyond distraction, you can't  really feel it throughout the book.  This is a great mystery of why  Claudius was so inept when dealing with his wives.  Graves makes his  conduct smart in &quot;I, Claudius&quot;, while in &quot;Claudius the  God&quot; he is completely blind to Messalina's ways.  If he truly was that  blind, then Graves should have concentrated in making Claudius' love for  her seem more real and all encompassing.  Otherwise, he should have come up  with another reason for Claudius' folly.<br />Overlooking this weakness in his  storytelling, the book takes a wonderfully tragic turn when Claudius  discovers Messalina's betrayal.  His pain is so poignantly written that the  readers cannot help but feel for him.  Afterwards, when he made the  decision to retain a passive role in the government, which stemmed from the  pain of Messalina's duplicity, the readers feel acutely the loss of his  will tolive.<br />This book could have become comparable to &quot;I,  Claudius\\" if the relationship between Claudius and Messalina was better  examined.	2000-02-23
US	50437337	RHAVE885Y6DOH	0380804387	752977287	The Present (Malory Novels (Paperback))	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A present for all the fans of the Malories	I did not intend to like this book.  I thought it was too short to incorporate all the beloved characters of the Malory novels AND a new romance. I also heard that it was not as inspired as almost all of the  Malory novels are.  Now that I have read it, I can say with certainty that  I love it and think that it follows well in the Malory  tradition.<br />Although the characters that I came to know and love are not  featured as much in this novel, just their names are enough to bring back  the flood of pleasure that I felt when I was reading the first five novels.   James and Anthony are delightful as always.  My favorite heroines, Amy and  Reggie, are as plucky as ever (what happened to James' calling Reggie  Regan?).  Jeremy is lurking in the shadows to erupt as the greatest  romantic hero ever, since James in any case.  It is great to see Jason and  Molly getting together, because these &quot;elders&quot; deserve some  happiness.  <br />As for the new romance, I love it.  Anna is a wonderful  heroine, completely refreshing and even more brazen than Amy.  Christopher  is complicated, not unlike his descendents but quite unique.  I wish that  their romance was not as quickly told and resolved, but I was still  satisfied by it.<br />My only concern was about Molly being a part of the  family.  Throughout the book, she is treated like a servant, yet apparently  everyone thinks that she is a part of their family.  I also did not like  that Derek pays so little attention to his mother.  By watching Jason  people can tell that he has special feelings for Molly, yet Derek does not  show enough emotions.<br />As for the younger generation, I CAN'T wait to get  to their stories.  I can just imagine how hilarious James and Anthony are  going to be when Jack and Judy fall in love.  I also wouldn't mind for ALL  of the Anderson brothers to find romance.  But first, there needs to be a  story for Jeremy.  He is too perfect to waste.<br />I would like to respond to  those who said in their reviews that they think James and George's spat was  ridiculous.  Obviously, we need to suspend disbelief when reading these  novels, but I actually found the reason for George's anger (or more aptly,  confusion) quite plausible.  I won't reveal what it is since there are  people reading this review who have not read the book yet, but I think that  in her state of mind, George was somewhat reasonable.  In any case, who  cares as long as they patch things up.  Also, to those of you who think  that the book repeats too much of what happened in the previous  installments, I think that these recaps are necessary for people who either  have read the other books long ago and don't remember what exactly happened  to whom or have not read all the books.  In either case, these recaps do  not take anything away from the book in hand.<br />I recommend this book to  anyone who loves romance and the Malories.	2000-02-22
US	50437337	R1TWKD6UAKH1JX	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Over the top	I put off reading &quot;I, Claudius&quot; for as long as possible because people who have read it say that no other historical fiction can compare to this masterpiece.  I was afraid that if I read it first, I would not be  able to enjoy another historical novel because it would undoubtedly fall  short of this book.  Now that I have read it, I feel that, although it may  be one of the best historical novels that I have read, it is far from  perfect.<br />The classic concept of &quot;I, Claudius&quot; seems even more  powerful because it is a true story.  A weakling whom everyone deems a fool  lives to become the Emperor of Rome.  Graves just needs to write a  historically accurate account and the story of Claudius' rise to power  would be just as amazing.  Instead, he absorbs every wild rumor and  speculation that has been suggested by various ancient and modern scholars  to bring about the deliciously perverse and preposterous account.  Although  the story is still highly enjoyable, it has solely passed into the realm of  fiction.  <br />One thing that concerns me is that many readers would accept  what Graves writes as the truth.  Although many policies, campaigns and  people's characters appear as they were, there are some that are purely  speculative.  My main worry lies with the characters of Tiberius and Livia.   Livia's role in ruling the Empire might or might not have been how Graves  chose to describe it.  Either way, I thoroughly enjoyed the character of  Livia in &quot;I, Claudius&quot; although I do not believe that the real  woman bore any resemblance to Graves' creation.  Tiberius had a reputation  as a debaucher, but whether this was the case is debatable.  In any case, I  do not believe him to be as simple-minded, evil, and wholly dependent on  others for advice as he is portrayed in &quot;I, Claudius&quot;.  That  said, my interpretation of Tiberias fails to account for Sejanus, whereas  Graves' makes total sense.  Also, the many poisonings that takeplace  should be swallowed with a grain of salt.  Some people were definitely  poisoned, but who exactly was and how many there were is anybody's guess.   For one, it is doubtful that Germanicas was murdered although it would  appear if though Tiberias had a lot to gain from his death.  Caligula's  madness, on the other hand, was well attested and almost all of Caligula's  deeds that Graves actually happened.<br />I also did not like that Graves kept  referring to certain terms and places in anglicized way.  Terms like  &quot;legion&quot;, &quot;cohort&quot;, &quot;consulars&quot; (instead of  ex-consuls), &quot;tribune of the plebs or people&quot; (instead of  Protector of the People), and such and places like &quot;Gaul&quot;,  &quot;Cisapline Gaul&quot;, &quot;Transalpine Gaule&quot;, (instead of  France) and people such as &quot;the Gauls&quot; (instead of the French)  would serve better in recreating the atmosphere of Ancient Rome.  Besides,  many of these terms have been used widely in literature so that most people  would be familiar with them.  If that is not the case, a glossary could  have been used. <br />The things that I like about &quot;I, Claudius&quot; are  the intriguing characters, the humor that alleviates some of the horror  from the gruesome murders that are taking place, and the narrative that,  except for the anglicized terms and places, seems very authentic. I grew to  like Claudius and sympathize with him on the occasions when he was  painfully rebuffed by his family and, especially, through the tragedy of  Camilla's murder.  I also appreciated the devious characters of Livia,   Caligula, Sejanus, and Livilla whom I love to hate.  Other characters that  I considered interesting were Augustus, Postumus, and Urgunallia.  There  were many dimensions to them, which were uncovered as the story went  along.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book but expected more from it.  I hope  that other readers understand that many facts in the book are pure fiction.   That said, I know of many people who passed history exams on the  Julio-Claudian emperors because of this book.	2000-02-14
US	50437337	R2UCKJMO73V8RY	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Over the top	I put off reading &quot;I, Claudius&quot; for as long as possible because people who have read it say that no other historical fiction can compare to this masterpiece.  I was afraid that if I read it first, I would not be  able to enjoy another historical novel because it would undoubtedly fall  short of this book.  Now that I have read it, I feel that, although it may  be one of the best historical novels that I have read, it is far from  perfect.<br />The classic concept of &quot;I, Claudius&quot; seems even more  powerful because it is a true story.  A weakling whom everyone deems a fool  lives to become the Emperor of Rome.  Graves just needs to write a  historically accurate account and the story of Claudius' rise to power  would be just as amazing.  Instead, he absorbs every wild rumor and  speculation that has been suggested by various ancient and modern scholars  to bring about the deliciously perverse and preposterous account.  Although  the story is still highly enjoyable, it has solely passed into the realm of  fiction.  <br />One thing that concerns me is that many readers would accept  what Graves writes as the truth.  Although many policies, campaigns and  people's characters appear as they were, there are some that are purely  speculative.  My main worry lies with the characters of Tiberius and Livia.   Livia's role in ruling the Empire might or might not have been how Graves  chose to describe it.  Either way, I thoroughly enjoyed the character of  Livia in &quot;I, Claudius&quot; although I do not believe that the real  woman bore any resemblance to Graves' creation.  Tiberius had a reputation  as a debaucher, but whether this was the case is debatable.  In any case, I  do not believe him to be as simple-minded, evil, and wholly dependent on  others for advice as he is portrayed in &quot;I, Claudius&quot;.  That  said, my interpretation of Tiberias fails to account for Sejanus, whereas  Graves' makes total sense.  Also, the many poisonings that takeplace  should be swallowed with a grain of salt.  Some people were definitely  poisoned, but who exactly was and how many there were is anybody's guess.   For one, it is doubtful that Germanicas was murdered although it would  appear if though Tiberias had a lot to gain from his death.  Caligula's  madness, on the other hand, was well attested and almost all of Caligula's  deeds that Graves actually happened.<br />I also did not like that Graves kept  referring to certain terms and places in anglicized way.  Terms like  &quot;legion&quot;, &quot;cohort&quot;, &quot;consulars&quot; (instead of  ex-consuls), &quot;tribune of the plebs or people&quot; (instead of  Protector of the People), and such and places like &quot;Gaul&quot;,  &quot;Cisapline Gaul&quot;, &quot;Transalpine Gaule&quot;, (instead of  France) and people such as &quot;the Gauls&quot; (instead of the French)  would serve better in recreating the atmosphere of Ancient Rome.  Besides,  many of these terms have been used widely in literature so that most people  would be familiar with them.  If that is not the case, a glossary could  have been used. <br />The things that I like about &quot;I, Claudius&quot; are  the intriguing characters, the humor that alleviates some of the horror  from the gruesome murders that are taking place, and the narrative that,  except for the anglicized terms and places, seems very authentic. I grew to  like Claudius and sympathize with him on the occasions when he was  painfully rebuffed by his family and, especially, through the tragedy of  Camilla's murder.  I also appreciated the devious characters of Livia,   Caligula, Sejanus, and Livilla whom I love to hate.  Other characters that  I considered interesting were Augustus, Postumus, and Urgunallia.  There  were many dimensions to them, which were uncovered as the story went  along.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book but expected more from it.  I hope  that other readers understand that many facts in the book are pure fiction.   That said, I know of many people who passed history exams on the  Julio-Claudian emperors because of this book.	2000-02-14
US	50437337	R1H1SM80XO0U6I	0380710838	771833517	Fortune's Favorites	Books	4	42	45	N	N	A disjointed effort	I have now read all five books in the Masters of Rome series, and this is the first time I gave one of the wonderful books in this series four stars. Although this book is pretty good, it is worse than the other four:  &quot;First Man in Rome&quot;, &quot;The Grass Crown&quot;, &quot;Caesar's  Women&quot;, and &quot;Caesar&quot;.<br />The main reason for this book  falling short of the others is that it does not have a central character or  characters. The characters in the forefront in this period are Sulla,  Pompey the Great, Lucullus, Crassus, Sertorius, and Spartacus. Caesar, no  matter how much the author wants to focus on him, does not have much to do.  Instead of trying to tie him into the experiences of others, it would have  been better to focus on Pompey and Crassus, for example, with Caesar  lurking in the background.  I think the greatest problem for the author is  how to deal with the book after Sulla's death. &quot;The Grass Crown&quot;,  ended with Marius' death with stage now set for Sulla to take over. It was  an appropriate ending but when Sulla retires and then dies in  &quot;Fortune's Favorites&quot;, the thread of the story begun in &quot;The  First Man in Rome&quot; ends. So, McCullough came up with the theme of  \\"fortune's favorites\\", which works OK but not well enough.  Since she has  to continue with the story after Sulla's death, a hodge-podge of characters  and events abound. Caesar's exploits are interesting but they take  attention away from the people who were actually doing something.  As I  said before, I feel that Pompey should have been in the center of the  novel, with both Lucullus and Crassus vying with him to be the First Man in  Rome. Pompey, at the start of the book, looked promising but his war in  Spain against Sertorius is quite dry (I admit I do not like military  campaigns but enjoyed them in &quot;Caesar&quot;) and not enough is said  about it. Everything that leads to his consulship is squashed into the last  hundred pages or so and then all the credit and attention goes to Caesar.  This is contrary to historical evidence and the point could have been made  more subtly.<br />Another person who was emerging as a potential First Man in  Rome is Lucullus. The author mentions his vices as well as his unwavering  loyalty to Sulla, attachment to his brother, Varro Lucullus, and fairness,  but it is not enough. The author barely scratches the surface of this  complicated man and does not even go into details to describe his campaign  against Mithradates, which made him a virtual god in the East.<br />I was  eager to see how McCullough would handle Spartacus. I can't say that I am  disappointed with the way she presented Spartacus' plight and origins, but  I am disappointed that she painted a rather one-dimensional picture of him.  I was surprised that she deemed Crassus a capable general. It was more  likely that Crass was just lucky and Spartacus' army less numerous and well  equipped than McCullough would like the readers to believe. This factor  especially contradicts Crassus' military disasters later on in  &quot;Caesar&quot;. Again, giving all the credit of what Crassus did during  his consulship and his cooperation with Pompey to Caesar is not well  supported historically.<br />Caesar's adventures themselves, especially  against the pirates and in Bithynia at the court of King Nicomedes, are  interesting. I especially liked the description of his stay in Bithynia  where for the first time in the series a human Caesar emerges. But soon  enough, he becomes a demigod.  According to McCullough, he basically  controls what goes on in Rome and advises the consuls, very correctly, what  to do and how to do it. It is hard to sympathize with someone who is so  much better than anyone else. McCullough makes Caesar so patronizing and  arrogant that no matter how many tragedies befall him later on in the book,  I stopped sympathizing with him. The good news is that she returns him to  the realm of the living in the next two books.<br />I was extremely  disappointed with depictions of certain characters. Cinnilla, Caesar's  wife, is non-existent. There is a mention of her here and there but she  remains completely invisible. Perhaps that was her role in Caesar's life,  still, there should have been a LOT more effort made on the author's part  to describe her. Caesar's Aunt Julia is barely present throughout the novel  so unless the reader read &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; it is hard to  understand what she meant to Caesar. Metellus Pius &quot;The Piglet&quot;  is an intriguing character but McCullough does not elaborate on the change  in him during the time Pompey arrives in Spain. Something MUST have  happened but McCullough is extremely vague about what it is.<br />Finally, a  note on the Eastern kings. WHERE ARE THEY? In &quot;First Man in  Rome&quot;, McCullough spent at least part of the narrative on Jugurtha. In  &quot;The Grass Crown&quot;, there was extensive information on Mithradates  and Tigranes. In &quot;Fortune's Favorites&quot;, Mithradates and Tigranes  are barely mentioned. Ptolemy Alexander, prior to his assuming the throne  of Egypt, gets some attention but not enough is said about what occurred  with his Queen Berenice.  Mithradatis Nysa also gets some mention but her  story is abruptly ended and not picked up later on. It would have made this  book a lot more colorful if the view of the Eastern kings was presented.<br />I really liked this book but I am very passionate about these series and  wish that &quot;Fortune's Favorites&quot; could live up to the rest of the  series.e realm of the living in the next two books. <br />I was extremely  disappointed with depictions of certain characters. Cinnilla, Caesar's  wife, is non-existent. There is a mention of her here and there but she  remains completely invisible. Perhaps that was her role in Caesar's life,  still, there should have been a LOT more effort made on the author's part  to describe her. Caesar's Aunt Julia is barely present throughout the novel  so unless the reader read &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; it is hard to  understand what she meant to Caesar. Metellus Pius &quot;The Piglet&quot;  is an intriguing character but McCullough does not elaborate on the change  in him during the time Pompey arrives in Spain. Something MUST have  happened but McCullough is extremely vague about what it is. <br />Finally, a  note on the Eastern kings. WHERE ARE THEY? In &quot;First Man in  Rome&quot;, McCullough spent at least part of the narrative on Jugurtha. In  &quot;The Grass Crown&quot;, there was extensive information on Mithradates  and Tigranes. In &quot;Fortune's Favorites&quot;, Mithradates and Tigranes  are barely mentioned. Ptolemy Alexander, prior to his assuming the throne  of Egypt, gets some attention but not enough is said about what occurred  with his Queen Berenice.  Mithradatis Nysa also gets some mention but her  story is abruptly ended and not picked up later on. It would have made this  book a lot more colorful if the view of the Eastern kings was presented.  <br />I really liked this book but I am very passionate about these series and  wish that &quot;Fortune's Favorites&quot; could live up to the rest of the  series.	2000-02-01
US	50437337	R2DZP8RC6CSAIP	038071082X	448407241	The Grass Crown	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A top-notch effort from the author of the best book series	&quot;The Grass Crown&quot; is a wonderful novel.  It describes the events after Gaius Marius' sixth consulship in 100 BC: his political eclipse and the hunt for the seventh consulship promised to him by the prophetess  Martha.  Standing in his way are his failing health, disturbed mental  state, and, of course, Sulla. &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot; and  &quot;Caesar's Women&quot; are slightly better novels that &quot;The Grass  Crown&quot;, but &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; is better than  &quot;Caesar&quot;.  <br />In order to get a complete picture of what Sulla is  like and how he came to be what he is, I think it is vital to read  &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot; first.  &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; does  not have spectacular character development.  For example, more needs to be  said about Cornelia Scipionis and Mamercus, especially the latter because  he becomes important later on.  Pompey Starbo and Young Marius require more  attention because they are too one-dimensional.    <br />The most engaging  story involves Marcus Livius Drusus, who had gone through a transformation  in &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot;.  In &quot;The First Man in  Rome&quot;, I did not sympathize with Drusus but in &quot;The Grass  Crown&quot; I grew to like him and care about what happens to him.  Livia  Drusa's story is also quite compelling, but I wish that the author would  provide a better characterization for Cato Salonianus.  His presence is not  at all memorable and his love for Livia Drusa is hard to believe and  appreciate because there seems to be no source for it. <br />I thoroughly  enjoyed Servilia and Caepio.  While in &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot;  Caepio was pitiful; he becomes completely loathsome in &quot;The Grass  Crown&quot;.  Servilia is an interesting character and the book provides a  great background for her behavior in later books, especially &quot;Caesar's  Women&quot;.  Other characters that I enjoyed are Aurelia (fascinating as  always), Cicero (his military career is described with gritty realism and  hilarity), Publius Rutilius Rufus (his letters are one of the best written  sections in the novel), and Gaius Marius (he is not perfect and at times  deranged but it is hard not to root for him).<br />The best part of the book  involves Sulla and his son, Young Sulla.  The story of their journey East  and Young Sulla subsequent death and its devastating effects on Sulla is  the most poignant of the four books of &quot;Masters of Rome&quot; series  that I have read:  &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot;, &quot;The Grass  Crown&quot;, &quot;Caesar's Women&quot; and &quot;Caesar&quot;. <br />My  biggest grievance about this novel is that the last hundred pages, which  are the most interesting, are not enough to provide adequate attention to  the subject of Marius' and Sulla's power struggle.  Everything led up to  this moment but instead of savoring it, the author quickly blows over the  events.  Marius' madness has been hinted at in &quot;The First Man in  Rome&quot; but in &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; he just goes mad without any  elaboration or focus on the process of his going mad.  It would only be  fair if the last hundred pages can be spread over 200 pages, at  least.<br />Final note on errors: In &quot;Caesar's Women&quot; and  &quot;Caesar&quot;, they are prevalent throughout these novels and are  extremely annoying.  They are present in &quot;The Grass Crown&quot; but  not to such an alarming extent.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who likes  a great book, be it historical or otherwise.  But PLEASE READ &quot;THE  FIRST MAN IN ROME&quot; FIRST.	2000-01-25
US	50437337	R1VLUW575L5QW3	0897330595	261442734	Homer's Daughter	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Great premise -- Disappointing novel	Robert Graves had a great idea: he wanted to elaborate on the idea that &quot;The Odyssey&quot; was written by a woman and that the woman-author was one of the characters in the epic poem.  Since the only virtuous human  women in the poem are Penelope and Nausicaa, Robert Graves concluded that  Nausicaa is a good candidate to be the poet.<br />The idea itself is quite  brilliant.  &quot;The Odyssey&quot; has always been called a  &quot;women's&quot; epic because except for Odysseus, all other important  leading characters are women and the story focuses more on domestic life  than on war-like exploits.  Thus, imagining Nausicaa as the epic's author  is not so outlandish.<br />That said, &quot;Homer's Daughter&quot; the novel  is hugely disappointing.  One of the major reasons why it failed to impress  me is that the tone of the novel was very impersonal.  I was always aware  that Robert Graves was telling the story instead of the proper narrator --  Nausicaa.  Speaking of Nausicaa, she is extremely unappealing.  She seems  to be very intelligent and clear-headed but so cold and closed-off that I  could not care less about her.  All the personal stories failed to impress  me because either they were almost cartoonish, like Laodamas and Ctlimene,  or plain boring, like Nausicaa and Aethon.  The meeting between Odysseus  and Nausicaa in &quot;The Odyssey&quot; is one of the best parts in the  epic.  Especially, when Odysseus says to Nausicaa that best of all, he  wishes that she would know harmony in marriage.  The meeting between  Nausicaa and Aethon in &quot;Homer's Daughter&quot;, patterned after  Odysseus' and Nausicaa's in &quot;The Odyssey, cannot compare.  Also,  Aethon pops up in the novel but I do not learn anything about his character  except that almost everyone who meets him has an immediate trust and  affinity for him.  Instead of telling us that, Graves could have shown  better why Aethon inspires such trust.<br />Robert Graves is extremely good at  telling myths and whenever characters do that in the novel, the stories  come alive.  This is why it is such a disappointment that he cannot  reproduce the same magic when the action is between the characters in the  novel.  He also writes good speeches and the confrontations in the Council  and between Aethon and the suitors are also well-realized.  But when the  characters try to related to each other, the result is unremarkable.   <br />Robert Graves should have tried harder to expand on his idea but he  seemed to be so enthralled with the premise that he pays little attention  to anything else.  All in all, this is not a bad book but not as  interesting as it could have been or as other books that are historical  novels based on mythology, such as Graves' own &quot;Hercules, My  Shipmate&quot; and Mary Renault's &quot;The King Must Die&quot;.	2000-01-07
US	50437337	RQDTDEMQBFBWP	0380710811	272869729	The First Man in Rome	Books	5	65	68	N	N	A wonderful book, one of the best in the series	I throughly enjoyed &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot;.  It is a great historical novel with timeless appeal.  So far, I have read three novels in the Masters of Rome Series, the other two were &quot;Caesar's Women&quot;  and &quot;Caesar: The Novel&quot;.  Of these three, &quot;The First Man in  Rome&quot; is the best.<br />I especially enjoyed the characters in this  novel.  While &quot;Caesar&quot;, for example, was completely devoid of  character development, this novel is overflowing with wonderful and  well-structured character portraits.  I was particularly impressed by  Sulla.  Instead of portraying him as a wild psychopath that he undoubtedly  was, Colleen McCullough turned him into a psychopath with a tender side.   Her description of his childhood and especially his relationship with his  tutor brought tears to my eyes.  Although Sulla is quite despicable in his  action, McCullough uncovers a complex person under all the madness.  A  great achievement!<br />I also appreciated her depiction of Gaius Marius.  In  history class, I learned that he was extremely lucky but rather  unremarkable in his talent.  That never sat well with me because I thought  that even if he wasn't a genius, he must have been capable enough to secure  the number of consulships that he had.  McCullough very nicely goes into  Gaius Marius' head and examines how and what is driving him.<br />Not all the  characters were well-developed.  Julia or Julia Major was extremely boring  and could have used more complexity because she appears to be such a  paragon of virtue that she does not seem human.  Jugurtha also suffered  because in the book he is too one-dementional.  That's too bad since he is  quite fascinating.<br />Most other characters are sublime:  from Metellus  Numidicus (Piggle-wiggle) to Scaurus to Saturninus to Julilla or Julia  Minor to Drusus to Aurelia.  At first, I was against the idea that  McCullough create Julilla but after reading &quot;The First Man in  Rome&quot; I realized how well she served the author's purpose.  Also, her  ordeal is quite heart-breaking.<br />I was a little bit disappointed by  Colleen McCullough's depiction of the political scene.  Everyone who read  Masters of Rome series said that the best political novel in the series is  &quot;The First Man in Rome&quot;.  I disagree.  Although McCullough writes  wonderfully about political squabbles in Rome, she mostly uses letters and  dialogues between characters to relate these events to the readers.   Although she is extremely good at letter- and speech-writing, in  &quot;Caesar's Women&quot; she actually describes what goes on as it  happens.  This helps with absorbing the atmosphere and also captivates the  readers better.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested  in Roman political history or Ancient history in general.  The Masters of  Rome series is superb and I hope Colleen McCullough will continue to add on  to the series for many years to come.	2000-01-07
US	50437337	R3K618VZOOAPZ1	0385263058	993642577	Circle of Pearls	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A wonderful and informatvie Restoration-era romance	This was my second book by Rosalind Laker and I liked it almost as much as the first, &quot;To Dance With Kings&quot;.  Historically, this novel is extremely accurate and vividly described.  You can feel the atmosphere and  clearly imagine how everything was at that time.  My problem with this  novel is the same as in &quot;To Dance With Kings&quot; -- Ms. Laker  changes her pace in the last third of the novel and hurries through events  and characters to reach a happy ending.  In &quot;Circle of Pearls&quot;,  Ms. Laker takes her time to describe the Cromwell years and the state of  Sotherleigh during the time Makepeace Walker lived there.  But after he  leaves, she manages to draw everything to a close, including Charles II's  restoration and coronation, the plague and the fire of London, in half the  space she allotted to the preceding events.  Her characters suffer as a  result.  Although Christopher and Julia continue to be well-realized, Adam  is only briefly sketched.  Sophie is not given room to show what she is  about but the author just tells us what state she is in and how other  characters perceive her.  There is no mention of what happened to Patience.   Certain characters, such as Nell, abrutly exit until a hint of what  happened to them appears in the epilogue.  Other characters, such as Katy,  are added only with a purpose to enhance certain people's personality.  I  would have also appreciated more detail about the life of Jean-Robert.   Another problem in &quot;Circle of Pearls&quot; is that Julia and  Christopher, although interesting characters, are not that lovable and I  felt more invested in the character of Adam but Ms. Laker did not focus on  him enough.  I liked Mary and wished that Ms. Laker would have transferred  some of the enterprising spirit that Julia possessed onto her.  Anne's  plight was especially poignant and tragic and Katherine's past could have  made up a book in itself.  Basically, my problem is that Ms. Laker did not  double the size of this book so that the story would have been more  complete.  I understand that the novel could only be a certain size, but if  Ms. Laker spent so much time on Julia's childhood, she should have spent as  much time on her adulthood.	1999-12-22
US	50437337	R3V9OAR9LBOS90	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great -- but can't compare to &quot;Gentle Rogue&quot;	I really enjoyed this book.  It had all the trademark characteristics of a Malory novel:  fast-paced plot, witty dialog and tender moments, and my favorite characters: James, and Jeremy.  I really liked Amy and her  agressiveness towards Warren, she is a Malory after all, but she still  pales in comparison to my favorite Malory woman:  Regina. I did not like  Warren because I think he is too gruff and old for Amy.  Still, I like him  more than Nicholas, who keeps growing on me, and his confronations with  James are priceless.  Can't wait until Jeremy and Jack get their own  stories.	1999-12-21
US	50437337	ROUH5UX9AF2C8	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not the greatest Malory novel	I like this book, primarily because it featured all the Malories I came to know and love.  As for the featured love story, between Kelsey and Derek, I was not impressed.  I like Derek but it is unfortunate that he is always  paired up with Jeremy, who is the perfect hero.  I always care more about  Jeremy than Derek.  I guess the author intended for them to have the  chemistry that exists between James and Anthony whenever they get together,  but thier relationship is impossible to replicate and Derek is more boring  than Anthony.  Kelsey is a very average heroine.  I had nothing against her  except that I couldn't care less about her.  She and Roslynn have the most  colorless personalities.  For the first time when reading a Malory novel, I  couldn't wait until the main characters got involved with the rest of the  Malories.  I can't say that I am disappointed, after all Jeremy was  featured prominantly in this book, but I expected more.  I just hope Ms.  Lindsey can find a worthy heroine for Jeremy.	1999-12-21
US	50437337	R1O6XUOTR4D33O	0445206764	779694118	Dream River	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The second in a trilogy and the best	This is the second book in the Wabash trilogy, following &quot;Lonesome River&quot; and preceding &quot;River of Tomorrow&quot;.  Although each of these books can be read seperately, in order to appreciate this one, it is  important to read &quot;Lonesome River&quot;, just like it is important to  read this book before reading &quot;River of Tomorrow&quot;.<br />Already in  &quot;Lonesome River&quot;, I became intrigued by Amy and Rain.  Amy, still  a child, was adorable, outspoken and extremely honest about her feelings.   Rain, an intervert, masked his true feelings but the author provided enough  clues at the end that he has been in love with Amy all along and the story  will continue in &quot;Dream River&quot;.<br />In &quot;Dream River&quot;,  Dorothy Garlock provides enough adventure and excitement to test both Amy  and Rain and their budding romance.  Amy has matured and, to my delight,  became even harder to control and reason with.  Rain grew out of his boyish  shyness to become a quiet and strong presence.  These two were made for  each other and throughout &quot;Dream River&quot; this fact is made more  and more evident.<br />There is also a subplot involving Eleanor and Gavin,  but I enjoyed this one less than the romance between Amy and Rain.  I  wished the author spent less time on Eleanor and Gavin, and perhaps wrote  another book about the two of them.<br />In this book, the spunky Mercy and  calm and collected Daniel appear, a throw-back to Amy and Rain in the early  days.  After reading &quot;Dream River&quot;, it was impossible not to want  to read &quot;River of Tomorrow&quot;.<br />Although Dorothy Garlock always  creates interesting characters, the women can be too unreasonably stubborn  and delicate at the same time.  Amy is a woman of a different breed, tall,  proud, in breeches, and brown-haired.  She is not the most beautiful woman  Rain has ever seen but she is the woman for him. <br />Read the whole trilogy  and you'll see that &quot;Dream River&quot; is the best of the best.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	R26HSPENZMNIW2	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Breathtaking journey, poignantly told	&quot;Tuesdays With Morrie&quot; offers a wonderful story that is simply told, without unnecessary elaborations.  I felt deeply touched by Morrie and Mitch's relationship, especially since it was between two men. <br />The  book was still a bit uneven.  I was more involved in Morrie's life than  Mitch's.  Although Mitch's journey is the major theme of the book, I got  deeply involved in his life only when he talked about his brother.   Otherwise, I could not wait until he talked about Morrie.<br />I enjoyed the  structure of the book and the way Morrie's biography was presented, bit by  bit.  Although this book did not make me cry, I felt a profound sadness by  the book's end and felt enriched because I found out about Morrie,  especially since I go to Brandeis University.<br />This book was a senior gift  to my class and it is perfect.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	R2GB6G5WC11AGZ	0671644475	818214166	The Conquest	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The greatest adventures story and romance ever told	After reading &quot;A Knight in Shining Armor&quot; and &quot;The Duchess&quot;, I was ready to to give up on Jude Deveraux because I thought the above-mentioned books were bad and did not enjoy them one bit.  Then, I  got my hands on &quot;The Conquest&quot; and became Ms. Deveraux's fan  forever.<br />From previous reviews, I noticed that readers loved the  character of Tearle but were less enthralled with Zared.  I feel just the  opposite.  I loved Zared.  Sure, she was a brat but she is unlike any other  romantic heroine.  She was instantly refreshing and even touching when she  was vulnerable.  Tearle, on the other hand, seemed a bit boring at first.   I don't dispute that he is right for Zared, but he is not the typical  dashing romantic hero.  Even so, I grew to like him an couldn't wait until  he and Zared got together for good.<br />My second favorite character, after  Zared, is Anne.  She also got spunk and I wish that she could have been  given more to do or even a whole book devoted to her story.<br />I adore this  book, but it still can't compare to the book that I consider to be the most  breathtaking romance:  &quot;Wishes&quot;.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	RGACQQ31PJK2T	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best romance I have ever read	I absolutely loved this book!  I was a little bit afraid to read it because I was disappointed in how Anthony was presented in &quot;Tender Rebel&quot;.  Without James around, he mellowed and became a bit boring.   James, on the other hand, can hold his own.  He is wonderful and George is  just the woman for him.  I already can see the potential for the stories  about the Anderson brothers.  I just adore everything about this book.   Even Nicholas began to grow on me.  As always, I am enthralled with Jeremy  and can't wait for his own story.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	R31NBYPCVLSAHE	0445203668	332912077	River of Tomorrow	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A good ending to a fabulous trilogy	The only problem I had with this book is that my favorite characters of the Wabash trilogy, Rain and Amy, were only briefly mentioned.  I wanted to see them enjoying a wedded bliss and meet their two boys.  Otherwise, this  book featured a great love story between Mercy and Daniel.  At first, I  thought that they would be a pale version of Amy and Rain or Libby and  Farr, but they and their story was unique.  Mercy's character was similar  to Libby's and Daniel's to Rain's.  Mercy's sharp tongue and short temper  were a delight, but her neediness wore me out.  Daniel was dependable and  decent, a great combination, but he was a bit boring at times.   The  discovery of Mercy's origins was a good plot twist and I grew to like her  family.  Mercy's and Daniel's shot-gun wedding is extremely funny and I  re-read it several times.  Eleanor is more lovable here than in &quot;Dream  River&quot; and Gavin is still wonderful.  I was a little bit disappointed  that Ms. Garlock briefly described Tennessee's and Mike's romance without  giving it an end.  Although Mike became weaker here than in &quot;Dream  River&quot;, I enjoyed what little there was about his and Tenny's romance  and hoped that Ms. Garlock would spend as much time on them as she did on  Eleanor and Gavin in &quot;Dream River&quot;.  This novel lacks a  satisfying ending, which would be Farr returning with George and Amy and  Rain making it to the family reunion.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	RN3TWJ1HPNKJO	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great hero and less-than-great heroine	I love Anthony, especially when he and James get together.  Their witty banters and declarations of love is enough to leave me rolling on the floor.  Still, on his own, Anthony loses some of his luster and Roslynn is  just too bland.  This was a nice little story and I enjoyed it, but it did  not have enough passion to sustain my interest.  I'm falling more and more  in love with Jeremy.  Can't wait until his own story.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	RPP4EJ2K7BN0Y	0445203625	268417703	Lonesome River (Wabash Series)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good as prequel to &quot;Dream River&quot;	When I read this book, I wanted to read &quot;Dream River&quot; because it featured my two favorite characters in the Wabash trilogy:  Amy and Rain.  I liked Libby and Farr but the closeness between them was underwritten.  In  the next two books, they seem to share an unbreakable bond that is envious  to their family and friends but it is impossible to see how this closeness  came about by reading this book.  Although the readers can appreciate how  and why Libby fell in love with Farr, Farr's love for Libby simply  appeared.  There was no explanation about how his lust for her turned to  love.  I like these two as individuals, but I did not see them as a couple  until &quot;Dream River&quot; and &quot;River of Tomorrow&quot;.  The story  of Farr and Fawnella is heart-breaking and incredibly ernest.  Also, Willa  and Colby's romance is sweet.  But the greatest love burns in the two kids,  Amy and Rain, and they finally get their turn to shine in &quot;Dream  River&quot;.  &quot;Lonesome River&quot; has unforgettable characters, such  as Juicy, Elija, Maude, and George Washington.  These are colorful group of  people, most of whom do not appear again in other books.  A pity.  All in  all, this is a good book for everything except the lead players.  The  author should have focused more on them than on everything that was going  on around them.  Perhaps, she could not wait to get to the telling of Amy  and Rain's story, just like I couldn't after I read this book.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	RXDI86WKBKHN6	0671743856	37185038	Wishes	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deserves ten stars (* * * * * * * * * *)	I love this book above all other romances for three reasons:  1) Berni, 2) Jace, 3) the plot.<br />When I began reading this book, I was sure that the &quot;Kitchen&quot; scenes would hinder the story.  But as soon as Berni  began to utter her witty replies, I realized that Berni and her  &quot;Kitchen&quot; experiences were the greatest assets of  &quot;Wishes&quot;.  Berni is hillarious and the discovery that she has a  soft heart is touching.  I wish Ms. Deveraux would write more books about  Berni helping to bring people together as she moves through the levels in  the Kitchen.<br />Jace is probably the sexiest male ever to grace the pages of  a romance novel and also, suprisingly, the most noble and decent.  It is  almost improbable to find that during the time he mourned his first wife,  four years!, he was never intimate with a woman.  Still, he is a phenomenal  character and his relationship with Nellie is sweet, tender and  endearing.<br />The plot itself, is unusual.  The greatest plot twist is that  Nellie has an unusual beauty -- she is a bit overweight.  Yet, it does not  diminish her beauty in Jace's or readers' eyes because she is so  kind-hearted and sweet.  For all those reviewers who like  &quot;pretty&quot; heroines, as Kane Taggert aptly put it:  &quot;She looks  like a peach.  As plump and ripe as a peach.&quot;  She might not conform  to a standard, but she is still a wonderful heroine.<br />I also liked the  villains in this book.  Terel was not just evil and devious but smart as  well.  All her plotting of Nellie were results of her insecurity that if  Nellie moved on with her life, Terel would have no one to love and care for  her.  Although she went too far, her motives were not completely without  reason.<br />All in all, this is a great book.  It has something for  everybody, and even if it is not your cup of tea, it is still worth a read.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	R19IKI4CI2D5GE	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Second best of the first five books in the series	Regina is my favorite female character of the Malory clan.  I loved reading about her but was a little bit disappointed with Nicholas.  He has the perfect name, Nicholas Eden, and his looks are great, but somehow he  pales to my gods:  James and Jeremy.  James and Anthony are hilarious  together and Jeremy is a dreamy hero that I can't wait to read more about.   I wish Regina and Jeremy were nor related, so that they could get together.   Still, I enjoyed this love story almost as much as I did James, Anthony  and Jeremy.	1999-12-20
US	50437337	R29HAO0S3UYLLY	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The best in the series	I adore &quot;The Gift&quot;.  It is so much better than its prequel, &quot;Guardian Angel&quot;, and sequel, &quot;Castles&quot;.  For one, it has a great title that actually corresponds to what is going on in the  book.  It also has fantastic characters.  Sara may not be as strong as Jade  but during the time when this book is supposed to take place, early 1800s,  women were a lot more sheltered.  Sara learns to loosen up and stand up for  herself, proving she had strength all along but never knew it until she had  to prove it.  Meanwhile, her little &quot;accidents&quot; are adorable and  hysterical and her plight to convince Nathan that he loves her is touching.   Nathan is a perfect romantic hero, gruff on the outside and gentle on the  inside.  He is too hard-headed and cruel in the beginning but, like Sara,  he matures and by the end of the book is more tame.  Nathan and Sara are a  great match and their sparring is terribly witty.  I especially adore the  last third of the book, when Sara is convinced that Nathan does not love  her and he is determined to prove to her that he does and wants to make the  most noble sacrifice.  Nothing can be more romantic than the scene at the  ball, when Nathan forgets, in his nervousness, that they are already  married and almost goes down on his knees to propose to Sara.<br />Although  Sara is prone to weeping, this does not make me think of her as weak.  She  shows her emotions openly and without restraint, and it is only natural  that she tears up whenever she is upset.  Her soft heart is what makes her  so lovable, and tears are a part of the package.<br />Most importantly, I  loved &quot;The Gift&quot; more than the other books because the story was  very intriguing.  In no other book, was the setting and the plot so perfect  for furthering the story.  This is a wonderful book, a gem to behold.	1999-12-20
