US	50446493	R3FYIP1Q3L3D8T	0425110621	497451798	Wall Street	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fast Paced and Hard Core - A Great Read	Bringing to life in a novel the characters and situations in a screenplay is not always easy and not always done well. In this case, the job is flawless and the result breathtakingly realistic and vivid.<br />Working From Oliver Stone and Stanley Weiser's screenplay, the author brings the protagonist to life with skill not often seen in novels today. The action is fast paces but clear and comprehensible throughout. Even the  contrived and larger than life aspects of the characters is recounted in such a way as to keep the pages turning and the reader engrossed.<br />Part morality play part commentary on the 1980's, Wall Street is a cover to cover read that doesn't slow down or let up. Intriguing and interested throughout, this is one movie on paper you won't put down and won't regret going to the trouble to find.<br />A great read that will not take very long and will entertain and enlighten, even if you have already seen the movie.	2001-08-31
US	50446493	R2OAV5FI3GSCCJ	1890093041	975933384	Chicago Days : 150 Defining Moments in the Life of a Great City	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Must Read	With excellent photography and sometimes gritty, big city narrative, Chicago Days is the sum of Chicago's history in an easy to read, fast paces, well written book that you won't put down until you reach the end.<br />Objective and very tongue and cheek at times, the educational and nostalgic value of this work can't be put into words. It will evoke powerful memories and feeling in Chicagoans and teach volumes to those from other cities. It would also make an excellent primer for those re-locating to Chicago from other countries, dispelling the popular myths about the City and its people.<br />Covering people, places, events and accomplishments with impartiality not always found in books about Chicago, this is a must read. It deserves six stars.	2001-08-31
US	50446493	R2LEQ59NVDKZD5	1881283054	917221122	The Swastika on the Synagogue Door (A Lazarus Family Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding	This is a delightful, little book. An educational novel for pre-teens and adults alike. I picked it up out of curiosity and read it from cover to cover with a smile on my face.<br />Set on Long Island, the story is that of a single-parent, Jewish family with a live in care provider from the Old Country who is also the spiritual and instructive medium in the childrens lives. Most of the adults depicted, as well.<br />Covering just about every aspect of Jewish life in such a funny, informative, and realistic way, I began to wonder if the author, a Rabbi himself, had not been a member of my own congregation. I think all readers will feel the same way. His grasp of the internal dynamics of the Jewish community and synagogue life is incredible.<br />Almost every word describing Conservative Jewish religious practice is included in the narrative. There is a lesson to be learned on almost every page, from anti-Semitism to internal prejudices, few if any subjects are left unexamined in a positive, thought provoking way.<br />Comprised of a story about vandals motivated by a former Nazi officer with several intriguing subplots, at no point does the reader get lost or chance being overcome by one subplot or another. The reading experience is thus very enjoyable.<br />Comprehensive and utterly charming, the only drawback is it is obvious this was meant to be one of a series of mysteries. Mysteries to be solved by the Lazarus family and their cast of colorful, supporting characters. Sadly this appears to be the only edition published.<br />Very young readers make take notice of the era the book was set in, the mid 1980's, but other than a few dated chronological references, this book is timeless.	2001-08-31
US	50446493	R160N5UPOYTMV6	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fast, Funny, And Riveting	The realism, though stylized and delightfully contrived and slightly melodramatic, is palpable. Greed overcomes a pack of very human lawyers and their respective clients, the heirs of a billionaire who executes a will bequeathing them a fortune, then moments later commits suicide on video tape. Immediately the spending begins as the assembly of losers sped their newfound wealth.<BR>Not so fat, there is a twist and turn, and finally, another heir deep in the wetlands of Brazil, an humble missionary, and the protagonist, a fallen attorney, facing tax evasion charges and his own demons with drugs and alcohol, is dispatched to find her.<BR>This he does with great adventure an some truly hilarious narrative. Thereafter, many of the chapters are predictable and the outcome slowly becomes foreseeable, too. It is a slight disappointment, however the fireworks and delightful legal wrangling keep the pages turning.<BR>What is troubling with this novel is some of the glaring errors about litigation and other routine facts that I wonder if are included by editors and not the author who of course, is a lawyer himself. Despite the inaccuracies, this book is a joy to read and quite exciting as well as humorous.<BR>There is at points, a heavy handed religious subplot that gets somewhat maudlin and is also over sanitized as not to, I assume, offend any specific denomination, but it belongs in the story and is palatable in this context.<BR>A good, fast read, well written and extremely entertaining, the author had his groove back!	2001-08-30
US	50446493	R1CILGNCXQI1E1	0385490992	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Well Written But A Disappointment	Although I was disappointed with this novel, it is a great example of John Grisham&#8217;s skill as a writer. He weaves together words and character, not to mention every day events in a web of suspense, fun, and page turning excitement. In other words, this is a very well written book. The drawback and main failure is the weak character development and even weaker main plot. When this book was written, and there are several like it by successful authors, there was a great deal of national concern about the new, conservative congress and the plight of the homeless. I don&#8217;t recall any of the mega-authors of the day pledging the total proceeds from and of their novels to aid the homeless, but that&#8217;s a social review, not a literary one. The fact that just after this work was published the United States went on to experience its greatest economic recovery in history looms large over the position taken by the author as well. The often histrionic, political commentary about the plight of the poor and homeless throughout the book is distracting and kills the joy of reading it. It is often baseless... There are some glaring errors as well. Namely the protagonist is arrested and thrown into a cell with his shoelaces in his shoes. One would think an attorney would know prisoners are not jailed with belts or shoelaces. Some of the characters and scenes are sadly stereotypical and cliche, but I am sure vivid and realistic to the middle class suburban reader who cannot fathom the world of the inner city. A wealthy man wrote a book about a wealthy man who found his conscience and decided to devote his life to helping the poor. A group the author is not in touch with nor relates to in any meaningful way. At least not in reality or in this work. Though not accurate and terribly generous to liberal politics at times, this is still a very good read and worth the effort to do so. The characters are not really believable, but their reactions to certain situations are the there is enough comic relief to keep it from becoming a public service ad for helping the homeless. Not Mr. Grisham&#8217;s best offering but certainly a page turner and good for a few smiles and suspenseful moments, The Street Lawyer was fettered by a implausible plot but does rise above being a bomb with exceptional writing skill.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	R3QUAEQ5P5TYDC	0446670022	948191682	To Life: A Celebration of Jewish Being and Thinking	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Stellar	This is an outstanding work of devotion, wisdom and compassion. A must read for anyone interested in Judaism, especially Jewish people interested in their own faith and practices. As an entry level primer for people with no knowledge of the Jewish religion or for Jewish people looking for insight into their pasts and present, this is a great place to start. Enlightening and insightful, this is one of the few books on this subject not written by a Rabbi or the Reform movement. Thus it is more traditional and certainly more educational for those serious about grasping the essence of Judaism. There are a few pages where the text is more or less placating the non-Jewish world, but not to the point it is belabored and it undeniably does not detract from the beauty and compassion espoused by the author. If you want to lean about the Jewish faith and perception of life, this is where to start your journey. If you are Jewish and struggling with the forces that pull you away from the practice of your religion, read this book. If you are not Jewish and want insight into the world of Judaism, read this book. It's a winner. Included is a brief historical account of the Jews, traditions and customs and a good deal of solid Jewish philosophy.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	R33ZP2TWNQ5X0Q	0312965257	796214569	Brandenburg: A Novel	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Abysmal	This work is long, weak and a tremendous disappointment. The characters are poorly formed and poorly executed. Depicted in the most impossible of situations and terribly stereotypical, they tend to irritate more than entertain. If a reader can bear grown women being referred to as girls, often, very often, and descriptions of the same being lurid and misplaces in the text of the novel, they just might enjoy this supposed thriller that takes place on both sides of the Atlantic. What I am sure of is the author knows the street address and organization of every law enforcement and counter-espionage agency in Europe. To a lesser extent in South America where in this book, a new Nazi party is doing its best to revive the Reich. There are endless and needless explanations of the form and function of these agencies throughout the novel. Still, with all this manpower and resources all over the world, the protagonist, a British DES agent, and his unlikely sidekick, a sexy, blonde journalist, are the only people between peace and a new Nazi Empire. Very predictably the sexy blonde the progeny of an SS officer and the hero, Joe Volkmann is the son of a Jewish victim of the Holocaust. However it is made clear he himself is not Jewish, only half. I think it is also very clear the author doesn't know anything about Jewish people or culture and was just trying to make the book interesting. There are some almost humorous gaffes committed by the writer when it came to ethnicity and international culture. Why a DSE agent would move a journalist he has never met into his home, cris-cross the globe with her, investigating the murder of her cousin in Paraguay is a stretch of the imagination. The reader has no idea how is footing the bill for all this travel or why European intelligencia would even be interested. The text mires down into a hodgepodge of poor Ian Fleming imitation. The hero is haunted by his father's suffering. He is also terribly clumsy and inept to be the dashing Bond-like character he's supposed to be. The beginning of the book is actually better than the latter part. Other than the grotesque but unrealistic murders and cruelty inflicted by the neo-Nazis, there is little else in the realm of action-adventure genre offered. Characters and situations depicted are weak, stereotypical and poorly if at all developed. It is just so improbable and so typical of a bad 1960's spy thriller, it is hard to finish reading. At just under 400 pages, it happens to be a long one, too. The formula used as the plot, super sharp agent, lovely sidekick, Nazis as villains, a nuclear weapon as the bad guy's bargaining chip, lots and lots of narrative about what the \\"girls\\" look like in and out of their clothes, and a climax wherein the super agent meets his arch-nemeses eye to eye, fulfilling his destiny, is just worn out. And pitifully re-done in this novel. Unless you are very bored and want a few laughs, skip this offering.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	R2L4N7J8POLVP5	1573241709	9832949	Simple Kabbalah (Simple Wisdom Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Delightful Read	A delightful read with clarity that belies its size and page count, Simple Kabbalah is just that. An easy to understand, insightful and educational book on a very intricate and complicated subject. Detailed yet comprehensible, most every aspect of this mystical art is touch upon and illuminated. Though reading this book will not make anyone an expert on Jewish Mysticism, it conclusively dispels many of the misconceptions about Kabbalah and give an excellent historical account of its inceptions and beginnings as well as its current place and posture in todays world. All objectively and readily. Very well written in concise chapters with excellent illustrations, this is a great place to begin a journey into Kabbalah or to refresh your knowledge of this mystical art. You dont have to be Jewish and you dont have to be a scholar to enjoy and learn from this charming little book.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	RPUG3GSYF2DS3	0916219011	149026892	Siddur Sim Shalom : a prayerbook for Shabbat, festivals, and weekdays	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Better Than Adequate	Currently the official Siddur of the Conservative Movement, the Siddur Sim Shalom is a very competent prayer book for home and synagogue use. Clearly written in very legible type with very helpful notations for both reader and congregation, it is pleasant if not slightly complicated to use. The prompts and strategically located, English transliterations are most helpful to non or novice Hebrew readers. They also help one to find their place in the service if they arrive late or lose themselves at any point. The foreward and information at the beginning of the Siddur lave something to be desired in the explanation of Jewish prayer and service ritual, though there is an excellent section at the end of the Siddur that is truly enlightening and an exceptional bonus. Still, some of the practice one might encounter in a Conservative shul is neglected by this version and likely can only be found in the Artscroll Siddur, today. Most daily readers of this work will be used to the section jumping nature of its layout, however this will prove a subtle annoyance to those who utilize it less often. Not ideal, but suitable for daily use and festivals, Siddur Sim Shalom exceeds in what it needs to be but falls short of what it could have been.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	R2PCZMQ1LVSHIN	0300047266	796450514	Two Worlds of Judaism: The Israeli and American Experiences	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Excellent, Enlightening Foray Into Jewish Culture	A very enlightening if not scholarly examination of the differences and similarities of Jews in the United States and Israel. At some points this book is a little heavily written but it not difficult to understand. The dichotomy between the two communities is amazing and worth investigating. The two authors, one from each nation, shed light on the differences of opinion, culture and society on both sides of the ocean. While reading this work will not make one an expert in the challenges and intricacies of Jewish culture, in either country, one will learn a great deal about Jewish identity in general and much more about the divergent attitudes possessed of American and Israeli Jews. Delving into the very experience of being Jewish in two very different societies, this work a good read and an illuminating journey into the social dynamics of two very different nations.	2001-08-28
US	50446493	R31G1OJYJQPN5L	0375501096	711174264	Proud to Be: My Life, The Airforce, The Controversy	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Lacking Objectivity	In this book the author covers the training of a military pilot well. Though interspersed with anecdotes that tend to do more proving up of her claim of discriminatory behavior by the male personnel about her during these times, than they do add color or depth to the story of her short career.<br />Sadly we are expected to believe that the author is blameless and innocent of any responsibility in this embarrassing and high profile, public relations disaster. Though she admits a great deal of drinking and less than responsible behavior throughout her schooling and career, the reader is expected to buy the idea she was clueless about relationships and powerless over her own life. That is unlikely for someone with the abilities and skills she demonstrated to become a bomber pilot.<br />Ms. Flinn was entrusted with nuclear weapons and the lives of crew members onboard her aircraft. She was entrusted with the welfare and security of the American people. I doubt seriously she was the child-like waif she depicts herself as throughout the book. If so, she should never have taken the control yoke and throttles of a B-52, because she admits she knew all this about herself from the beginning.<br />Blame falls on religion, sexism, American Culture, military culture, society at large and small town America. It is cast upon the administration, the media, conspirators unknown and begins to sound like Mrs. Clinton's defense of her husband that fateful day on the Today Show.<br />This is after all the author's side of the story and I was not expecting it to be objective but I was expecting it to be more professional and less histrionic. It becomes a platform for advance a foundation the author was championing at the time of the scandal and finally ends with a whimper. Not a bad book, in reality, there are some very good points made and it is worth reading. I do think a much better job could have been done.	2001-07-25
US	50446493	RV5ZXXQ6NTPJ0	0486280578	794719593	Chicago Poems: Unabridged (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Charming Collection	Wonderful and authentic, a great collection for any Sandburg devotee or any patriotic Chicagoan. I was a little disappointed with the actual quality of the book, binding and covers, but it is not an expensive edition and the collection is priceless. A must read!	2001-07-25
US	50446493	RI8ZR3ZZVHCEY	0312053894	298264012	Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow?	Books	1	1	1	N	N	There Should Be A Zero Star Rating	What has to be the most interesting aspect of this book is the author. Ben Stein is supposedly one of the most learned and scholarly celebrities in America. A writer of economic and legal articles and essays, it is very difficult to believe he wrote this particular novel.<br />Rife with impossible characters whose development and character is defined by what they are wearing, how the smell and what size their breasts are if they happen to be women, they are thrust through an equally impossible tale of rags to riches, boy meets girl cliches for 298 pages.<br />I was unable to determine if the author was writing about alcoholism, a love story, the intricacies of big business in the 1980's, or perhaps simply attacking conservative politics, the Japanese economy or his perception of minorities. There are countless and needless inferences to Jewish people in less than conscientious or appropriate ways, African-Americans are servile and inconsequential and Hispanic people are consistently one rung below that. Where does all this fit in with the story line? I couldn't figure that out either.<br />The dual protagonists are far too heroic and far too weak at the same time. A drum major from Tennessee and a tycoon from Texas, perhaps they are the fantasy characters the author always wished he could be. There is no realism in this novel and it is lacking in ironic or sarcastic unrealism to balance the imaginary universe these characters operate in.<br />There are high points, however. At times there are very real and powerful emotional pangs that the reader can feel from the pages. Sadly they are few and far between. The book is laced with too much descriptive narrative regarding name brands and designer items, hopelessly imprisoned in the 80's, to read with continuity. There are loose ends and grand excursions taken by the characters that don't make much sens and seem to have been added by the editors either from another work or to fill out the novel. All of which combined makes it difficult to get through this novel without giving up.<br />If this book was intended to be a high line romance novel it missed the mark. If it was a sardonic, satirical treatment of one it missed even more so. If it was intended as a corporate love story, there was too little knowledge about the subject matter on the part of the writer and editors to make it work. Again, difficult to believe considering who wrote it.	2001-07-25
US	50446493	R3DLWPC46P9N5J	1555472508	14370282	The Hour of the Lily	Books	1	0	1	N	N	A Feeble Attempt at Locale and Period Writing	This novel tries and fails to take the reader on an adventure unparalleled through Afghanistan in the early days of the Soviet invasion. It is written very much in the way of an armchair political scientist sitting in England and musing on the happenings in this far away, exotic land.<br />Ponderously written and poorly researched, this tale follows a GRU officer and his estranged wife who decided to stay with the Afghan rebels, and her lover, the leader of the tribe, the leader of the tribe, and the action of the invasion and resistance.<br />Choppy and difficult to piece together at some points and containing more than a few grammatical errors and misspellings, this book is sometimes very difficult to read. Islamic sounding names are giving everyday objects to make the narrative sound authentic and exciting but it falls terribly flat.<br />The characters are dim, very shallow and terribly predictable. Obtuse dialogue and impossible at best scenes are everywhere to be found. World events are forgotten and the writer concentrates too much on the stiff, story board characters and what he thinks they must be like and less on the flow of the account of what's supposed to be going on.<br />I was very disappointed with this book. In some places there is a stench of more than a small amount of elitist condescension considering the Soviets and the native Afghans, bordering on offensive.	2001-07-25
US	50446493	R3O0F61M6JVKW6	0201624710	809520350	Rocking the Cradle of Sexual Politics: What Happened When Women Said Incest	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Solid But Stilted	Though an outstanding, scathing, commentary on the decline of real , political change affected by feminism in regards to incest and less specifically, child molestation in general, this book loses its powerful and meaningful perspective by miring down in hyper-feminist rhetoric and premises that are not in touch with reality.<br />The author would have the reader believe there is absolutely no such thing as a female child molester and that every single accusation of incest or molestation against a male is founded. She goes on to say evidence to the contrary is simply a male-centered ploy to try to throw the scrutiny elsewhere.<br />Such diverse characters throughout history as Maimonides and Ronald Reagan are blamed for perpetuation sexism and either ignoring or promoting incest, father-daughter only, of course. No other kind exists.<br />Accurate in its account of how the feel good, self help, movements of the late 1980's and early 90's and the Morning TV attitude toward personal problems and crises have all but destroyed the real, political force of the war against incest, the one-sided, almost childish stance the author takes to prove what is obvious.<br />I agree wholeheartedly with the author that the era of Oprah and victims are victims forever, offenders are victims, too and, let's all discuss it over and over again on TV has trivialized the bane of incest and turned treatment and recovery into something of a dark joke. But I will not accept there is no such thing as a false accusation of incest, motivated either out of malice or confusion, nor will accept there are no female offenders throughout history or currently.<br />When reading this book, ignore the propaganda and heated rhetoric. Deduce what needs to be done to restore America's abhorrence of incest and the damage it does to our society, in that regard, it's right on the mark. Ms. Armstrong is still a very angry victim and I think the avenger's spotlight of this national shame having been shined awayfrom her for many years has angered her even more.	2001-07-25
US	50446493	R2Y8LSC9ZVPKPJ	0805013261	693736586	A Breed Apart: The Horses and the Players	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Fast Paced Learning Experience	Though not the ideal bok for the novice horseplayer, this book give insight and information most people interested in the thoroughbred racing game have no idea exists. Written by a reporter, the prose is quick and is filled with quotations by trainers, owners, jockeys and track officials in a real time, fast-paced dialog that is powerful but sometimes difficult to keep up with.<br />There is no glossary or index of terms and many of the terms used are over the heads of those just learning about horse racing. This book is focused toward a betting audience or readers who currently follow racing and want to learn the intricacies of this most captivating sport.<br />Funny and hard hitting, this is good read and for the most part well done. Again, not for those just making a foray into this unseen world of lovely mounts and high stakes, but a good book to get acquainted with what happens before and after the starting gate opens.	2001-01-31
US	50446493	R27UNBLILIY6R0	0805463593	290271119	Circumstantial Evidence: A Novel	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Not Good But Not That Bad	I am going to be very careful in my criticism of this work. Written by an attorney with a vivid imagination and in later offerings a far better narrative, this is a formula book with a difficult to swallow plot and nearly impossible to believe characters.<br />I am not going to attack this book because I think it will appeal to the audience it is marketed to. It was written as a religious thriller. A legal page turner with a biblical perspective. There is a strong lack of character development, abysmal neo-novelist errors and a good does of some stereotypical depiction of race, sex, politics and geography. All of these would mean a negative star ration for a secular novel aimed at a general audience, but I think most readers of this genre of novel will like it very much and enjoy every page.<br />There are twists and turns, though each one is fairly predicable. The protagonist is a female prosecutor who is widowed and raising small children. She is swept away, romance novel style, by a charismatic politician in a matter of hours according to the book and that is just the beginning of the implausible and sometimes impossible situations delivered to the reader. Still, I think there is a segment of readers who will love all this.<br />So though I was not impressed with this book, I will say it has some merit and there are those who will enjoy it very much. Bell's later books are much better written and show a polish and skill this one does not. I won't detract from the message that runs through out this work, either. It is a sweet if not overused devotional to the goodness and power of God.	2000-12-26
US	50446493	RZUYJU5CJPZBE	0446360589	756714989	The Burden of Proof	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Outstanding	Written as a loose sequel to \\"Presumed Innocent,\\" this novels takes us into the world of legal drama in the very capable hands of a true master of this genre. Though not as gritty or compelling as it forebarer, this work does bring vivid, realistic and personable characters to life in a way only Turow can.<br />The tables have now turned and Alejandro Stern, ace defense counsel now must face trial for an unspeakable crime. The evidence and tension mounts as his former client, and former prosecutor battles to clear his friend's name in the pool of fascinating characters and locales of Kindle County.<br />This book is not \\"Presumed Innocent\\" for those who enjoyed that book. It is a great effort and very entertaining. A bit longer and more ponderous, it is still a tremendous story and flawlessly written. I say it is a must read. It is far better courtroom fiction than most Grisham novels. Deserving of Five Stars, a good read and a great novel.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R2LCKSPX6WAQEF	0870215574	542267915	Run Silent, Run Deep (CLASSICS OF NAVAL LITERATURE)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Original Undersea Thriller	This is the best example of WWII undersea adventure ever written. More compelling and believable than anything I have ever read, the writing takes the reader into the minds, souls, and terror of the crew of a submarine at war. You will come to understand them, the function of a conventional submarine and the perils and terrors of warfare.<br />Predating the Tom Clancy novels and later offerings in this genre, Captain Beach fills each page with excitement, humanity and the apprehension of battle only a warrior can depict accurately.<br />A must read for undersea warfare buffs, you will learn much about the tactics of current day submariners and glean where many of today's writers of this category of literature originated their styles and interest in undersea warfare.<br />From beginning to climatic end, this is a must read.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R3P2HO45GPYG1E	0425099172	122812539	It's Your Body	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best Even Written On The Subject	This is without a doubt the best book ever written about the female body, all of it. Extremely objective and easy to understand, it truly is, as advertised, an owner's manual for the woman's unique physiology.<br />No aspect of womanhood is ignored and no judgements are made. The information is clear, direct and helpful. Every woman should have a copy of this book and all men should be required to read it at least once.<br />For parents with children at the onset of puberty, male or female, this is a work that will demystify what their adolescence is about and will make the explanation of growing to adulthood far easier for the parent and easier to understand for the child. The lack of any particular moral datum, objectivity and scientific accuracy make this book ideal for most anyone seeking knowledge without commentary, social or otherwise.<br />Everything from STD prevention to ageing are approached, explained and summarized in comprehensive chapters with precision and compassion. Whether you are just coming to terms with adolescence or are beginning menopause, are beyond menopause or a man desiring to learn more about the enigma that is a female body, read this book.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R39Q2CXZXA84IZ	0395349222	735259209	City: A Story of Roman Planning and Construction	Books	4	12	13	N	N	How Did The Romans Do That? Find out how.	Another of a series of books by this author about architecture and building projects through the ages, City brings the reader face to face with the problems, challenges and triumphs of Roman engineering and construction.<br />The illustrations done in a wonderful pen and ink are as vivid as any photograph could have ever been and may are quite amusing as well as educational and enlightening. The text is explanatory, but not overly detailed and this is by no means a college level treatise on Roman civilization. It is however fun to read and illuminates the practices of the antiquities for younger readers.<br />Adult readers will enjoy the humor depicted in some of the drawings and the text and illustrations are informative for them as well. This may also be a good book for school rooms where much reference is made to the times of the Roman Empire in general study. It's a worthy addition to any library.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R3VLROV9EERQ9F	0395321212	117975055	Pyramid	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Journey To Ancient Egypt	One of a series of books about the engineering and technical aspects of the great buildings and marvels of history, Pyramid is a worthy effort, but not as interesting, compelling and funny as City and Cathedral, two of the other books in the series.<br />Though just as well illustrated by the dazzling drawings found in the entire series, the text is not as appealing as it could be and the attention of younger readers may be lost in a short time after some of the major questions about pyramid construction are answered.<br />Not verbose or over-written, the text is understandable and concise. As with the other offerings in this series, the reader is taken from the very beginning of development to the completion of a project, in this case a massive Egyptian Pyramid within the pages of the book.<br />Though not the very best in the series, Pyramid does instruct and would be a very valuable asset in any classroom or home library.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R24O1JZCPH2YIK	0395175135	690259631	Cathedral: The Story of Its Construction	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Let Us Build!	One of a series of books about the great engineering feats of mankind, the author and illustrator takes us into the world of the great accomplishments of cathedral building. The reader will travel from the beginnings to the completion of an edifice spanning many generations.<br />Though a good book for introducing younger children to architecture and engineering, it probably is best suited for those 9 to 15 years of age. Adults of all ages will enjoy the sophisticated, exhaustive and sometimes humorous illustrations.<br />I enjoyed this book when I was younger and am always happy to see it once again as an adult. It is a great, educational effort in an enlightening and distinctive series by a very talented author.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R29TE8OVEQMVWT	0671742949	78886547	Under Siege	Books	1	3	6	N	N	Finale Fizzle	This book may deserve a better rating because it is a monumental story and very well written, however the ending and some of the reaches the author makes throughout this epic make is very unsatisfactory and disappointing. I personally did not read anything else by this author after being an avid reader for many years. The ending is that bad.<br />Also there is the very 1980's steep to the whole work. It is very anachronistic today and would have been had it been written in the 70's. Much has happened since the depths of the drug wars in the 80's and we have a new understanding of the dynamics involved today. Parts of this work hinge on the desperate fear Americans had then of destruction at the hands of drug cartels which was displaced Cold War apprehension.<br />No doubt a tremendous work, resurrecting familiar characters into an unlikely setting, the stretches and total collapse at the finale earn this one a single star.	2000-12-09
US	50446493	R18CQ5R3CR6SOJ	0356083411	902238858	Widow	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Painfully Passionate and Honest	With the angst and aguish of her loss seething on every single page, this book is not just the story of loss and recovery, it is a manual of what not to do when you lose a spouse, how not to ignore the fact this event may strike at any time and true insight into a pained and tormented soul, that of a woman you will come to love and hate as you read on.<br />This is one of the all time best books ever written on the subject of the loss of a husband. The enviable lifestyle and relationship shared by the author and her husband only serve to bring the reality of her loss to light with great detail and clarity.<br />If you have lost a spouse, before you do anything or make any major decisions, find a copy of this book and read it. My father was killed and my mother made many of the same mistakes the author did, falling into the same pattern of errors many women who lose their husbands do.<br />Set in the late 1970's a lot has change, but so little has at the same time. A few of the attitudes toward widows have eased, but in some parts of our society, nothing has at all and every point made in this book will be a reality to the person suffering their this horrific loss. An outstanding work of great passion and honesty, sometimes painful honesty, this is a good book to gain sensitivity for people of all ages, married or not.	2000-12-02
US	50446493	RPLG37HMA9H4B	0963339745	713197310	The Girl Next Door	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Terror And Suspense Unparalleled	This is without a doubt the most terrifying novel I have ever read. Not because it is rife with ghouls or monsters or anything of the sort. This book will capture the imagination and emotions of the reader because it is about real people, people who may be living next door to you right now.<br />The reality and the narrative pictures the author creates is palpable. The characters are so vivid and the action so believable and credible you will not put this book down until you are finished and then you will notice you heart is beating faster.<br />A harrowing account of horrific abuses suffered by sisters at the hands of seeming normal, functional people, other children as well as a mentally ill relative, it is the masterwork of a true genius in this genre. The true terror is the fact this could happen anywhere to anyone and society may likely overlook it. The reality and the chronology written into the novel are amazing and the insight into the corrupted minds of the perpetrators is extraordinary. The heroism of the protagonist and her humanity, all so brilliantly depicted will amaze the reader and surely bring about some introspection.<br />Not a book for the faint of heart or those not interested in a chill up their spine and a tug at their own conscience. This book will make you think about yourself as well as the characters.	2000-12-02
US	50446493	R17LZZYKQPJL08	0413724204	163144266	The Acid House (Screen and Cinema)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Fist Class Scream With Low Class Values	Without a doubt one of the funniest works anyone will ever read, know it is not for the judgmental or the too terribly sane. The humor and ironies not to mention the writing style and the translation of lower-class Glasgow speech into written text will entertain for hours.<br />The intricately linked stories, really anecdotes, off handed poetry and the genuine angst felt throughout the book, laced with deadpan humor and some of the most uproariously funny situations I can ever recall make for a fantastic escape from the everyday world.<br />The characters are vivid and true to their own characters throughout the book. The local and behaviors exhibited by everyone depicted are delivered with such wry comedy and wit it is no wonder this book was so well received. Again, this is not humor for children or anyone with issues with profanity or adult situations, be forewarned. It is, however,  unexpectedly amusing and gritty to an extreme.<br />Enter the world of Eurotrash and gain some insight into the drug-singed minds of those depicted in The Acid House. You will never forget your journey there.	2000-12-02
US	50446493	RK295JQ7TJPO8	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	11	17	N	N	Funny But Flawed	Bill Bryson is an excellent writer. His skills are matched by few writing today, certainly in comedy. He is an American who moved to England in the early 70's, worked as a journalist there and decided to move back to The United States after becoming a successful writer.<br />This book chronicles his farewell journey around Great Britain and notes his humorous observations. He does this remarkably well. His biting humor and excellent, graphic descriptive are a pleasure to read. The situations he finds himself in and the observations he makes are almost always very funny if not very accurate.<br />Americans, shelf your patriotism when reading this book. A lot of what the author writes is directed toward a U.K. reading audience so misrepresentations and fallacies abound. A good deal of cliche and stereotypical depiction of life and the people in the United States appears on every page a comparison is made. Once you acclimate to the stilt, you will enjoy the humor.<br />For the reader in the U.K., know a lot of what Bill Bryson writes about his own country is fictional. He uses typecast people and places often and sometimes departs the actual. America is not much like what he writes, thought one could find such a place or person in America.<br />As for his observations, some truly are scathing and unfair. Some are literally attacks, even if they to elicit a giggle or two. His pen does drip poison from time to time in the descriptive of some individuals and their appearance and activities. This will turn some readers off entirely. <br />This book does, surprisingly, gives a clear, concise history of politics and commerce in England that is objective. An unexpected bonus, though a wry and humourous one.<br />A good read, though a bit acidic at times, funny and very well written, give it a try and keep your nationalism in check, you will enjoy it.	2000-12-02
US	50446493	R78NOCSDXI7UE	0380733358	153919204	Eye of the Needle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still The Best Of Follett	This is the grandfather of spine tingling WWII thrillers with colorful characters who surprise and delight the reader and never disappoint or condescend.<br />The story of the top Abwher spy, deeply planted in wartime England and the crew of counter espionage agents who relentlessly hunt him. Eye of the needle is Ken Follett's most inspired work. The characters are new, fresh and original. They are reused freely in his later works, sometimes to the detrament of the books, but here they are bright and unique.<br />The narrative give the reader insight into the conflicts of war torn England, both within and without. A peek at the despair war can bring and the true merciless nature of warfare and espionage.<br />There are several very similar works on the market, but none of them come close to the power and reality created on these pages. You will come away with the sights and smells of the drama clinging to your senses even though you have experienced them through the imagination of the author.<br />This is also one of the most well written of all Follett's books, with the advent of the mind's eye point-of-view that appears later in other offerings, but without the delivery found in Eye Of The Needle.<br />You will come to love and hate the protagonist, who is the determined spy as he tried so desperately to deliver his message and the tenacious hounds of British Intelligence who hunt him.<br />If you enjoy WWII thrillers and want to escape this day and time, this is the book for you. You will have difficulty putting it down. It's still Ken Follett's best.	2000-11-23
US	50446493	RIS2T1X3LDK5C	0425116840	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Jack Ryan)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clancy's Best Ever	Without a doubt, this is Tom Clancy's most inspired and finest offering to date. It is original and written in his best narrative.<br />It is an espionage thriller without equal. It winds through years of Cold War intrigue in a flash back type account that excites, engorsses and enlightens. There is enough comic relief to break the tension this book builds and the masterfully devised characters are without parallel.<br />A must read for all spy thriller fans and those who may not like the genre alike. It is a long, cold look into the Cold War and into the hearts of men, told in an agreeable way that makes it next to impossible to put the book down.<br />There are twist and turns, surprises galore and the ending will likely draw a few tears. I would recommend reading this offering first if you are a new Clancy fan. You will come to know the best of his writing and will be objective about his other books thereafter.<br />One final twist, when you finish this book, you will learn the ending of a tremendously successful movie was taken directly from its pages.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R3TTPUT4ZFUZL2	0871315548	722565631	The Pueblo Surrender: A Covert Action by the National Security Agency	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Implausible	While trying to unravel much of the bane of mystery still hanging over the Pueblo Incident the author embarks on an extraordinary conspiracy theory that becomes more and more difficult to lend any credibility to as the readers moves through the book.<br />Robert Liston is a prolific writer who has written on just about every subject under the sun. He leans mightily toward the left and has written several books that are very apologetic of communism and the former Soviet Union. He uses his background as a writer and journalist to write a historically accurate but mostly conjectural account of what might have happened that fateful day in 1968.<br />His theories are not readily plausible and his lack of objectivity is quite obvious. He admits he did not interview most of the crew of the Pueblo or many of those involved ashore during the crisis. He does quote other conspiracy theorists at length and the reliability of his work goes downhill from there.<br />For a fanciful look into what may have happened all those years ago, this is a fairly good read. For those who have studied the Pueblo Incident in depth, it is a bit of fun, for anyone just beginning to read about it, read something else first...please. Begin with newspaper articles from 1968, not this particular work. A quick review of the news from back then and the so-called objective writing of Mr. Liston will show the level of credibility this work deserves or doesn't deserve as the case may be.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	RZ1LOQIZ6W1DO	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Remarkable Fiction	As we again face turmoil in the Middle East, this book becomes more timely than ever. The story of a nuclear warhead falling into the hands of very determined terrorists, it winds throughout the world, through characters that come to life, and terror and suspense that will surely amaze and satisfy the reader.<br />Almost too true to life to be a work of fiction, this book is more technical and heavily written than earlier Clancy works, but the high degree of detail and heart-stopping tension more than balances the scientific complexities in the narrative.<br />At times the characters a carbon copies of earlier Clancy protagonists but the brilliant use of them makes up for some of their predictability.<br />Ryan and crew are back with a vengance and the safety of the world are in the balance. A must read and a well and worthy effort. Not perfect, but by far, one of the finest nuclear terror novels ever written.<br />And keep in mind, it could all happen as soon as today.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R1GFSU4KJ0B34N	1567992064	132148616	Motorboating: A Complete Guide	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Book To Read Before You Buy Your Boat	Well written and beautifuly illustrated with breathtaking photographs, Captain Pike's thesis on motorboating teaches and entertains through every page.<br />Enlightening and education and uproariously funny at times, the writing is understandable for master yachsment and landlubbers alike and there are enough pictures to delight even the youngest readers.<br />You will learn the basics of boating. What makes them float to the more technical aspect of cruising. This book also makes a good reference guid or teaching resource for boating safety skills.<br />With sections on how to price and buy a boat, where to buy and when, how they and their systems work and explanations of many of the sometimes mysterious terms of the sea, this book will educate and amuse.<br />Captain Pike brings decades of seafaring to the reader in a narrative that elicit smiles and laughs along the way. A consummate skipper and wonderful storyteller, he keeps the reader interested with personal anecdotes and easy to understand explanations. Before you even consider buyng a boat, give this book a close read. Whether you intend to boat on the open seas or inland waters a few feet deep, you will be very glad you did.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R2GYPOQHXS8G9W	0801520142	870524356	Democracy's messengers: The Capitol pages	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Brief History Of The Congressional Page System	This is an excellent book for young readers interested in how congress works. Written very clearly and understandbaly, though this work is nearly two decads old, it delivers enough punch and drama to keep young minds focused on its pages.<br />With a thorough hisotrical background of the pages in congress and their evolution through time, one learns a great deal about the intricacies and intrigues of Washington and the demands and responsibilites of the pages.<br />If you know a young person who is interested in becoming a congressional page, this is an excellent book for them to read before sending a letter to your representative or senator. Find this book and read through it twice. <br />Teachers, this is a great resource to interest young minds in civics and government.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R1V4DHL642J5HA	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cold War Drama Borught To A New Height	With believable characters and suspense that will keep the reader awake all night, The Hunt For Red October is one of Tom Clancy's best offerings ever.<br />Using great cut and chase chaptering and writing just techincal enough to engross, but not to be overbearing, this thriller will take the reader through every emotion from fear to joy as they move through the pages.<br />Whether you are a naval warfare aficiando or just looking for some excitement, this novel is sure to please. Out stripping the over-edited and over-acted motion picture by miles, this is a book for anyone.<br />Clancy writes with fine attention to detail and created characters the reader will no only come to love or hate, but come to know as personally as their own family. I first read this book in 1992 and I still know the main character's names by heart. It is that moving. Read it today.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	RWRCEYFRNBJ8F	0425143325	685045441	Without Remorse (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	1	6	31	N	N	Without Merit	There are two specific reasons I rate this novel so low on the scale. First it is very long, tedious and at times laughable as far as plot and story line go. The characters are often cliche and difficult to take seriously and the scenes tend to be forced and come off as phony at best. Not present is the pins and needels descriptive narrative Clancy is so well known for. There are dozens of mistakes and errors and at times the plot gets away only to come back with an anti-climatic closure or worse, a very predictable one.<br />Secondly without going as far as accusing Mr. Clancy of plagiarism, I will go as far as saying this story virtually mirrors that of Mack Bolan, the Executioner, written by Don Pendleton nearly 30 years ago. This is the story of the mysterious Mr. Clark who has so often come to the aid of Clancy's favorite protagonist, Jack Ryan. This novel is a prequel of several others in the Ryan series and attempts to explain who and what Clark is. Not only does it fail to do so, it takes a bit too much from the original Executioner novel. Worse, it doesn't have the gritty edge of Don pendleton's work and it is obvious it was written many years after the Vietnam war and the etire era it is supposed to depict. There are errors of detail and just plain poor development of the times and characters and their interactions.<br />Read this one at your own risk or read it first to be more impressed with previous and latter offerings. Don'tlet it sour you on Tom Clancy's work. He is a great author, but this particular book is a disservice to his loyal readers.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R1QPY013WWP35W	0631206310	281384155	Hannibal (Blackwell Ancient Lives)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Details Without Exaggeration	I found this book a very concise and scholarly work on the life and battles of the great general Hannibal. Though no new ground is covered in this treatise, it is very well written and translated and would be an excellent read before embarking on a report or essay on the battle of Rome.<br />Understandable and enlightening, this book covers the life of the general as well as most other books currently in print though not as well as some that are difficult to find today. Without question factual, this book was meticulously researched and verified. Still, since we have little evidence from a historical standpoint other than what has alrady been offered, there is nothing new to glean from the pages of this book.<br />One of the best attibutes of this book is the lack of embellishment or dramatic affectation of the battles Hannibal fought. The facts are credible and thoroughly investigated.<br />Because of the interesting pitch and composition of the writing, this would be an ideal book for teachers to require students from high school onwards to read. It is compelling enough to hold their interest and edcuational enough to impart some knowledge of the antiquities.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R3LKL5078N7EKV	0891414878	673052485	Scatterpath: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An Honorable Mention	The yarn of the investigation of an airliner disaster, this novel introduces the reader to some rather unbelievable characters and a sometimes less than credible plot.<br />Though fairly accurate and enlightening in tthe depiction of the formal investigation of such a disaster, the wooden and often very stereotypical characters detract from the best part of the work.<br />Many of the people depicted walks out of a romanc novel and are porly suited for where they have found themselves. At times it seems like they are aware of this and they act accordingly.<br />Easy to read and worth at points, the lack of character develoment and tendency toward the over-dramatic sink a novel with a good deal of potential.<br />I wouldn't read &quot;Scatterpath&quot; on a flight, nor in an airport terminal, but it won't keep you white knuckled when you next fly, either.<br />Disappointing but not awful, this book does have a lot to offer, just not the thrill it promises in the beginning.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R20LLYWSIZPRBG	0671701053	112875152	Thing of Beauty	Books	3	13	17	N	N	A Clinical Look At A Colorful Life	Though filled with details that do not convey much about the life and death of Gia, a compelling character from the late seventies and early eighties who rose to supermodel fame and died of AIDS more or less an unknown. Well researched and understandably written, the narrative reads too much like a newspaper story at times and much of the book is devoted to a history and analysis of the advertising and fashion industires.<br />Though biographical and laced with trenchant images of the late model, the angle of the book is far too academic and sympathetic to the excesses of its subject. Not that a judgement call is asked for or needed, there is no question Gia destroyed herself, what is missing is the essence of this sad story. Much of the information for this book was provided by an estranged mother who came to the dying model's side toward the end of her life. Thus the sometimes acute lack of objectivity found in the rest of the book.<br />Though a very good effort, this book disappoints on many levels. There is too much writing devoted to the throes of Gia's death and the joys of her rise to fortune and fame. A bit too much devoted to an explanation of her industry and too little devoted to her complicated personality. She comes across as a party girl with some talent and a look and she was considerably more than that.<br />As a biography this book succeeds in detailing the major events of Gia's life and untimely demise. It does with accuracy and fairness categorize her field of work, her sexuality and her lifestyle but it does not put a human face on the person who lived this life. We learn much about the people in her lief and come to know them, but you leave this book not knowing its subject at all and that is its failure.<br />Gia was an intricate and sophisticated person. A woman of great beauty and promise beset by pain we never come to realize from this work. Sadly she is lost forever because of self-destructive behavior and a total lack of support from those around her. The human side of that story along with the empirical information we are given would have made this a thumbs up winner.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	RFOOO6LZCRIP0	0345323440	202451186	Footfall	Books	1	10	19	N	N	Death By Novel	The only thing good I can say about this novel is that I'm done reading it. Agonizingly slow with a thin to non-existent plot, it spins the yarn of aliens arriving to conquer Earth by hurling asteroids by the hundreds at vital installations. The aliens are the interstellar version of elephants and all they want humankind to do is lie on out backs and capitulate. This is observed by allowing one of these galactic pachyderms to gently step on one's chest.<br />Naturally the earthlings will have none of this and the battle is joined. Through page after page shallow, vapid characters wage war with their antagonist from the stars as every useless detail is ground into the ground while needed background is left to the imagination.<br />The right-wing, paramilitary twist is not as bothersome to me as the weak plot, lack of originality and total lack of merit offered in this book. I have to agree with another reviewer who said there should be a zero star rating for such tragedies in print.<br />From the number of good reviews this work got, there are quite a few people out there who like the idea of talking elephants from outer space trying to make pacifists out of mankind. That is not a very original storyline, except for the elephant part, and this book fails time and time again to deliver any power, emotion or entertainment value.<br />This book was a weak plot built into a long, tedious, ponderous novel with little forethought and a lot of hyperbole. Unless you are bored beyond belief or want to be, steer clear of this one.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R3V532VOEVYI40	0373610939	159191763	Fire Eaters (Mack Bolan: the Executioner)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Terrific Departure	In this second generation Execution offering, Mack Bolan make a departure from battling the KGB, terrorists and the mafia and come into contact with a domestic menace on par with his horrific, international villains.<br />We enter the personal life of a college student turned professional assassin. The battle that ensues between this unlikely anti-hero and the Executioner is well written, exciting and suspensful. The characters are more personable than most through the series and are well developed, honest and realistic.<br />If you are in the mood for domestic intrigue and an arch-villiam as implacable and uncompromising as any Mack Bolan has ever faced, this is a must read. The fact that the assassin is an All American college student make it all the better.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R10ESYD5LU2SB7	037361070X	42085071	Ice Cold Kill (Executioner Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Adventure Frozen In The Cold War	Without a doubt one of the finest post-Pendelton Executioner books ever. This second generation Mack Bolan thriller takes the hero into the Soviet Union in the dead of winter. The attention to detail and the descriptive narrative will delight most any action-adventure buff.<br />Suspensful from cover to cover, all the characters are believable and authentic to their time. The plot is more credible than most of the series and will please even the most jaded of readers of this genre. If you can find a copy, read Ice Cold Kill as soon as you can, you'll be glad you did.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R10AA5COEXXFLO	057111069X	114425212	Their Noble Lordships: Hereditary Peerage Today	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Funny and Informative	A must read for anyone wondering what English nobility is like and how it exists in modern society. No matter your opinions on nobility, you will enjoy the concise, understandable, explanations of the peerage and the sometimes hilarious anectodes about life as a peer and those who come in contact with them.<br />There is plenty of descriptive information about peerage as well as educational data. Funnier and more enlightening than a read through an excyclopedia article, this book will give you a personal look into the lives of the peers and acquaint you with the class system still in place in the U.K.<br />At some points rather heavily written, the burdensom prose is punctuated with very comedic stories of the peers and their interaction with modern soceity.<br />For a funny, accurate and fairly objective consideration of the whole concept of English nobility, read &quot;Their Noble Lordships.&quot; If nothing else, you will have a good time and know how to properly address a Duke or Baron should you ever meet one.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	RI1XH5VSYXXY4	9992960647	108782014	Emerald Explosion	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Marginal	The greatest disappointment with this novel is the lack of character development. It seems like the author expect the reader to know her characters or at least of them before opening the book. There is too little about them to come to know or care about them through the entire work.<br />They are good and interesting characters and some stand out like the brilliant depiction of an agent who poses as a mental health professional who pretends to be a different, classical, psychiatrist from the past every day. As he goes from Freud to Jung and onwards, he entertains greatly. This character is the highlight of the book.<br />At some points it is laboriously written and at others far too little detail surfaces to give much insight or understanding to the reader.<br />A good effort, it is possible the book was over-edited or written about characted the author is very acquainted with in her own mind and that connection was lost on paper.	2000-11-22
US	50446493	R2C9TJ1UV39XNX	0812860187	941393177	Trial of Jesus of Nazareth	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Accuracy Above Dogma	This book is a scholarly investigation into the trial and execution of Jesus Christ.<br />It is very well written and researched. It moves beyond the dogma and rhetoric of modern day Chirstianity and sheds ling on the realpolitics and dynamics of 1st Century Jerusalem.<br />You conclusions will be much more clear and concise after reading this book and your understanding of the times that led to the Crucifixion will be enlightened. I strongly recommend this book.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R1SDATZTI3E6VZ	0688142966	24090548	Simple Simon: A Thriller	Books	2	20	23	N	N	Fast Pace, Weak Writing	This book had a great deal of potential. It seems to have been either over-edited or the author had not researched his subject matter very well.<br />It is very fast paced, extremely so, with shallow character development and only cursory details about where the action takes place. There is a subplot about a sadistic assasin that one wonders why is in the book. The premise tends to insult the reader's intelligence. It is also sexist and marginally racist.<br />It is also evident the author was not trying to authentically depict the intelligence establishment or the use of cryptography. There seems to be a 1970's sense of mistrust of the government written into the novel as well as a sense of governmental incompetence.<br />The characters are cliche but friendly and this book will keep you reading it, however, it will not take very long, the pace is maddening and the details few.<br />For a brief, if not unsatisfying, distraction, Simply Simon, fills the bill.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R39QI4P1TUB4SO	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best Yet	In my opinion this is the best legal thriller yet written. The power and tension of this work is translated onto each page with something that I can only describe as desperate enthusiasm.<br />The characters are real and touching, even the ones you will come to hate are human and vivid. The storyline never stops moving and never once disappoints.<br />Turow takes us into the minds of people wo would like to know or love to hate, moves us through a dismal midwestern autumn and winter like few authors can and delivers the literary punch to keep the reader on the edge of their seat.<br />Don't be satisfied with having seen the movie, read Presumed Innocent.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R1DF9CF3ZWF72I	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simple Words To Live By	I will not gush over this book. The unabridged version offers more insight and there are probably better book on the market, however, there canbe no dount, reading this book willmake you think,make you cry and one hops, change your life.<br />It is at the same time a commentary on our times and lifestyle and the story of life and death, well told, well delivered and much needed today.<br />Read this book, then read it again and learn.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R21YAYNFKSH1S3	0451188462	562576523	Desperation	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Disappointment	I will admit I read this book avidly cover to cover in two sittings. It is compelling and suspensful, but that's all.<br />It is far from one of Mr. Kings's best works and the characters are cliche and of a formula tht can be found in dozens of other horror thrillers.<br />There is a powerful religious theme to the novel that may offput some readers. The real source of disappointment is the lack of an identified villain and a plot that spirlas down to a weak climax and explanation.<br />The book becomes very predictable toward the end and loses the power and suspense it delivered in the beginning.<br />I received this book as a gift. I think I would feel a bit cheated if I had purchased it myself.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R2HRTVGJ88VAGB	0310231876	934181160	Forgiving the Dead Man Walking: Only One Woman Can Tell the Entire Story	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Powerful Writing, Powerful Message	This book is a must read for victims of violent crimes and their families. It is delivered in a very caring, warm way that endears the reader and prepares them for the horrors of the author's ordeal.<br />Though it is my opinion a good deal of the narrative was glossed over for the audience the book has been markets to, it is accurate and the message is more important than the prose.<br />This is not a book about the debate over capital punishment nor is it a treatise on religion, it's a testament to courage, faith and healing on a par by itself.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R3KRRYG00GF2VN	0060663723	848970811	Mormon America: The Power and the Promise	Books	3	11	22	N	N	Objective Tp A Point	This book offers a neophyte to the Mormon religion and people a good deal of insight and a great dealof accurate historical data though that data is sometimes sanitized or abridged.<br />It is well written and easy to understand. Very objective through most chapters and quite informative. It does become apologetic both for and against the Church Of latter Day Saints thus losing objectivity and credibility along the way. It seems tha authros were trying too hard to be objective and thereby muddled their message.<br />I would strongly recommend this book for anyone just starting their research into Mormonism. It's objectivity, thought limited and historical accuracy make it a great place to begin.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R3I5BC8NN2WLPY	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gripping Suspense	Though not the best work of fiction ever put to press, Absolute Power is compelling and brilliant. A much better read than most political thrillers, this novel will take you inside the minds of some of the most interesting characters ever created.<br />The book outshines its motion picture adaptation. There is no comparison. The stories diverge a great deal and that is as much as you are going to hear from me.<br />This book is enjoyable and a tremendous read fromcovere to cover.It is not likely to let you down.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R180WFA9LP5US	0425108937	357138048	Flight of the Old Dog	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding Suspense	Without a doubt, this is one of the best aviation thrillers ever written. It is technically accurate, the characters are human, believeable and funny and the story will keep any reader riveted to the pages. You will not put this book down until you have finished it.<br />Thought-provoking and suspensful, it does not fall into the predicablility and anti-claimax of many thrillers. Read it today. Ypu will never forget your ride in the belly of the Old Dog!	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R1XDVBH0Z7UX0D	0805421610	348573683	Blind Justice: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Good Read	I enjoyed this book very much despite some obvious flaws. It is fast paced, funny and very personable. The characters invoke real feelings from the reader, good and bad.<br />It struggles at points, but always revcovers and will entertain and surprise the reader at more than one turn.<br />Give it a try.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R2HLLSFN3MTXHP	0449002640	442800937	The Unlikely Spy	Books	3	0	2	N	N	WWII Suspense	This novel follows the formula of many WWII thrillers, sometimes a little too closely. It is predictable and the characters are unremarkable. Any of them could be found in hundreds of other novels of every genre.<br />It does hold the reader in suspense and becomes quite compelling at points, but beings to mire itself down toward the end and then ends in something of an anti-climax, and a predictable one at that.<br />There are good twists and turns and it is a worth while read. I did enjoy it, but was less than impressed. If you enjoy Ken Follett's early WWII era work, you will enjoy this novel.	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R223BYR0V82VPC	0380731649	438241163	Just Desserts: Martha Stewart the Unauthorized Biography	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Flowers, Candles, Napkins, Ambition, Intrigue	If you want a little insight into the wold and life of the billion dollar enterprise that is Marth Stewart, this is not a bad place to begin.<br />Though far from gospel, it is a light-hearted, though I am sure she would not agree, look into the life and times of a new American icon.<br />Infomrative and easty to read, this is an enjoyable and sometime uproariously funny book. I will probably not change any real opinion the reader has of Martha Stewart, it does, however, give some understand of the person behind the enterprise and a historical narrative, as accurate as any, of where she came from and how she got where she is today.<br />A story of true American ambition and relentless drive for success, a little meaness and messiness and you have Just Desserts. Pass the cranberry sauce, please....	2000-11-15
US	50446493	R38B5MG6H0VLCW	0609603086	999720718	The Hammer of Eden	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Follett's Worst Offering To Date	This is the least inspiring offering by Follett since &quot;The Big Needle&quot; in 1978. It is poorly conceived and poorly written. It contains the earmark characters that appear in most Follett adventures, now  in the guise of aging American hippies. It is obvious the author knows  little about American culture, despite claiming a great deal of research.  The writing sounds like an English secondary student musing about whay life  must be like in America. It is difficult and exasperating to read. I would  avoid it and I am usually a fan of the author's work.	2000-01-16
US	50446493	R2WTGUG62IWI0J	0060976357	943777826	Grieving: A Love Story	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Outstanding	This is one of the finest works on the subject of loss yet written. Whether the reader is dealing with the recent loss of a loved one or needs comfort years after their beloved is gone, this piece of brilliant, honest  writing is ideal. A wonderful job of writing, and a wonderful love story. A  thank you is in order to Mrs. Coughlin. Your effort is greatly appreciated.	2000-01-16
US	50446493	R16FVEW3OMB7Z3	0816159629	282875968	Grieving: A Love Story/Large Print (G.K. Hall Large Print Inspirational Collection)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Reality. Life and Death	This is without doubt the most outstanding work on the subject of losing a spouse or lover. The rality and compelling writing make it a must read for anyone, whether they have suffered a loss or not.	1999-12-31
US	50446493	R3SSWL7L7OPJ3A	0821756753	417381002	The Big Needle	Books	2	8	8	N	N	The Swingin' 70;s	This work isn't exactly trash, it's a very 1970's morality story with an unlike, almost anti-hero behaving very much like a  Swinging London jet-setter. It follows the 70's fashion/sexuaity formula with Mr. Follet's  usual characters. Very similar to &quot;The Executioner,&quot; By Don  Pendleton, the book that defined the action/adventure genre, this book is  more a reflection of the era than a bad work of fiction. While it deserve  no awards, it isn't trash either.	1999-12-22
US	50446493	R3HWPT5R6SJ6I9	0446601829	576482622	Black Phoenix	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Potential Lost	This book has the makings of a brilliant WWII techno-thriller with personable characters and a fairly well thought out plot. Sadly the story loses momentum and the characters take on a very stylized formula which  muddles the plot and becomes preditcable. It doesn't seem like the author  did much research before undertaking this work, either on biological  warfare or Nazi Germany. It is interesting reading, but had much more  potential.	1999-12-22
