US	50442542	RHLH80AMG2II0	0060199393	852996073	After the Ball: Gilded Age Secrets, Boardroom Betrayals, and the Party That Ignited the Great Wall Street Scandal of 1905	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Parallells between now and then	James Hazen Hyde inherited the majority of shares in the Equitable Life Assurance Society at the age of 23.Intelligent, wealthy, cultured  and received in the best circles,he seemed ready to run the billion dollar company. He was no match for the older more seasoned men on the company's board. Encompassing the Gilded Era, when wealth was displayed and the 400 Ruled society,\\"After the Ball\\" details the ascent of Hyde and his eventual fall from power.Not only is this a story of business and the mechanisms of power, it is a a glimpse into the rarified world of the social elite. No expenditure seemed to extravagent if it meant besting your social peers,no display too vulgar. It is the time when Vanderbilts,Astors,Roosevelts and others filled the society news. James Hyde moved in these circles,using the vast monies in his business to ease the way. Briskly written, well-paced, \\"After the Ball\\" not only details the behind the scene power struggles (usually front-page news)but the intrigues within the highest of society.	2004-10-01
US	50442542	R1VTNLRASZGME7	0767917219	865691715	The Right Address	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Wit with bite and heart	It is common knowledge that the right address can make you...or is it? Former flight attendant,Melanie Sartomsky not only married Arthur Korn the Coffin King)she moved to Park Avenue. However, the right address is unable to insure her acceptance into society. Melanie is hobbled by the ghost of the first Mrs. Korn, Diandra, the perfect social butterfly. Oh,she can volunteer and donate and go to all the right parties. She can wear all the right \\"names\\" to her heart's content,even pointing that fact out to all around her. No matter how much<br /><br />she tries, Melanie is shut out.  With the help of her butler Mr. Guffey, she sets out to recreate herself in Diandra's image. A few off the cuff comments to the social writer of the Observer, and Melanie discovers how brutal popular opinion can be. She also has to decide if she really wants to become like the first Mrs. Korn, or even an accepted member of the social elite....is she willing to pay the price?Carrie Karasyov and Jill Kargam admit to having spent their entire lives eavesdropping on \\"insane<br /><br />socialites\\" as students of the toney Spence School on New York's posh Upper east Side. Witty,pointed and observant,\\"The Right Address\\" is a keen observer of the rarified social whirl and the presumed importance its participants take upon themselves.	2004-10-01
US	50442542	R1B7ZQIM2JH3YE	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Better told then read	On a really good day, I get into my car and turn on NPR only to hear David Sedaris's deadpan delivery of yet another family tale.I have to either prolong my drive or sit in my car in my driveway to be able to listen to it all. Family life, Sedaris family life, is fair game. Whether it is trying to extricate himself from the complexities of living next to a 9 year old klepto, being mistaken for an employee of a gay nude housecleaning service, or watching as his parents navigate the<br /><br />treacherous waters of being landlords,he is ready with wit that<br /><br />skewers.  Sometimes it is too close to the truth for comfort.  Visiting his sister Tiffany he is  struck by not only her complete lack of caring about housecleaning,but by her disdain for his opinion and advice as well. She refers to him as \\"you people\\" , \\"I don't like you people\\" and calls hin \\"Fairy Poppins\\" when she talks to their siblings.<br /><br />  I'll admit I prefer hearing Sedaris to reading Sedaris.  While still funny and insightful, somehow his words don't translate to paper as well as I hoped. I need the deadpan voice, the quirky delivery, the wry smiles and rolling eyes that accompany his stories. Still very funny,but without his \\"what are you going to do\\" shrug they are more bitter.	2004-10-01
US	50442542	R38F2TTN8TP2UT	0679433325	398249945	Where I Was From	Books	2	7	23	N	N	More memoir, less geography, please	Every summer brought the drive in my in-laws' car from Stockton to Santa Cruz. I was not a California native,only marrying into a California family so I was not familiar with the state's history.I just remember California seeming so vivid and alive.  Joan Didion narrates her family's move west and the intertwined history of the state and her family. Not only do we learn<br /><br />of family, but of the changes in the society. California has always struck me as a restless  state, ever on the move, turning to the next idea or trend. Didion follows her family's history, the eventual erosion of the ties to the land and agriculture and the huge immigrant wave. There are the huge industrial closedowns and the urban sprawl and growth. This is a book for anyone who loves California, but not nearly as revealing about the author nor her roots.	2004-10-01
US	50442542	R1VVF8EQ96E32O	0374526001	751416544	Travels with Alice	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Travels with Calvin	Calvin Trillin may want to sound exasperated when he talks about his travels with his wife Alice and his daughters.He can talk all he wants about dispelling the notion that an $800.00 per person customs limit does not mean his family each need to purchase that exact amount of goods before returning home. How McDonald's semingly smell the same though located half a world apart. He may want to sound gruff, but this collection of essays manage to convey his delight in discovering new cusines,comfortable places and kindly people.  I suspect half the fun of traveling with Alice, is seeing how far you could push the seemingly intractable Calvin over the edge.	2004-10-01
US	50442542	RUSJRQB25SPRN	0060096861	221324216	American Taboo: A Murder in the Peace Corps	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A life that should not be forgotten	The seemingly idyllic island life shared by Peace Corps volunteers and Tongan natives was shattered one night in 1976 when Deborah Gardner,a recent arrival was discovered dying outside her hut. Rumors swept the island until another volunteer surrendered himself to the police. He told island authorities that Deborah deserved to die.  He had no emotion other than in relation to himself. What followed was a bizzare legal exercise. Though most were convinced he had comitted the crime, the man eventually was  tried using and insanity defense. Found insane at the time of the murder the man was flown to the US with a promise to the Tongan authorities that he would be detained in a mental hospital. He arrived home and  and walked away free. Years later, when face to face with the admitted murderer, Weiss is struck by the man's containment and his need to control the interview and what is written.  No remorse is expressed. Many of the people involved  tried to bury the memories and questions.<br /><br />The event became island legend. Phillip Weiss first heard it from a friend several years after the murder. Very little had appeared in the US media, perhaps supressed by the Peace Corps and other government ententies. Painstakingly, he contacts most of the volunteers on the island at the time,as well as many of the islanders. Many are eager to share their thoughts, their confusion, their feelings of betrayal and guilt. What emerges is an almost unbelievable tale of murder and the willingness of the Peace Corps to protect the murderer.  There are many vivid participents. Mary George, the directer of the Corps in Tonga,was almost evangical in her efforts to sheild the suspect from Tongan justice and seems to slip in and out of reality as she grapples with the dual cultures. She goes as far as to write the victim's greiving parentsto suggest they pray for the murderer's well being.She also begins to talk of her \\"visions' which she uses to direct other Corps Members.The McMaths, a<br /><br />family who befriend the killer,only to be betrayed by his violation of Mrs. McMath. Even years later, she is afraid. The prosecuter and the Tongan authorities who valiently struggle to bring the murderer to justice only to be thwarted by Peace Corps administrators and the government.Many of the volunteers remark they were betrayed by their government and feel guilt because they didn't fight harder to speak out. There is a grieving family in the Us who never realized their daughter's killer has never been punished, a family destroyed. What Weiss does best is bring to life the portrait of a vibrent young woman who was eager to embrace life. That is the memory we should keep alive.br />family who befriend the killer,only to be betrayed by his violation of Mrs. McMath. Even years later, she is afraid. The prosecuter and the Tongan authorities who valiently struggle to bring the murderer to justice only to be thwarted by Peace Corps administrators and the government.Many of the volunteers remark they were betrayed by their government and feel guilt because they didn't fight harder to speak out. There is a grieving family in the Us who never realized their daughter's killer has never been punished, a family destroyed. What Weiss does best is bring to life the portrait of a vibrent young woman who was eager to embrace life. That is the memory we should keep alive.	2004-09-02
US	50442542	R1O4GZ9Q2L0Y8Z	0375408908	612091253	The Working Poor: Invisible in America	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Working harder and not getting ahead	Somewhere in the middle of this book the reader is introduced to Tom and Kara. They had always struggled and sometimes hadn't always made the wisest decisions. They  were pushed back as often as they were able to move ahead. Kara is diagnosed with lymphoma, and it seems as though any small gain they have made will be devoured, and their children will<br /><br />face desperate times. The \\"safety Net' provides scant help.  Their friends and community offer more. Those with as little or less then them give what they can. They offer food, wood, transportation to appointments. Kara feels overwhelmed by all this and is uneasy with their \\"debt\\".  She manages to co make and collecttoys to donate he hospital's waiting room. Tom cannot help but feel their economic status influences some the doctors' treatmentdecisions. She eventually succumbs.<br /><br />  The Working Poor, Invisible in America tries to discover why in a land of plenty we have so many who go without.  Without the very basics....food , shelter, education, health care. Those who do without are working the very jobs others say they should take. There is no doubt this is a complex question and David Shipler does not in any way say he has any of the answers.  He presents a well balanced picture, and proposes some ways to make change. What he does best is place human faces<br /><br />on  people.  The people who we see every day. Shipler identifies many of the causes of poverty, and he also is candid about the dilema business find themselves in...beholden to shareholders as well as workers. The trend to ship work overseas. The necessity to hire immigrant workers to do the work many native US citizens will no longer consider.He keeps bringing us back to the human face and the cost of the working poor. The price we all eventually pay.	2004-09-02
US	50442542	RICZDX5N9D3FQ	0060507322	281213133	The Bad Guys Won! A Season of Brawling, Boozing, Bimbo-chasing, and Championship Baseball with Straw, Doc, Mookie, Nails, The Kid, and the Rest of the 1986 Mets, the Rowdiest Team Ever to Put on a New York Uniform--and Maybe the Best	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Excess with the best	Anyone watching the Boston Red Sox play the New York Mets in the 1986 World Series has the image of the baseball rolling between Bill Buckner's feet forever etched in their memories.  The Red Sox were this close to beating the curse,someone had even flashed  \\"Congratulations Red Sox\\" before being told to get it off. Bob Costas was standing  with the commissioner's trophy, preparing his comments for presentation. Some members of the Mets had already cracked open a beer and then....the<br /><br />ball rolled between Buckner's legs and the game took on a whole new weird life.<br /><br />  The unlikely finish of the 1986 season sometimes overshadows the cast of the 1968 Mets,an extraordinarily gifted group of athletes. Darryl Strawberry, Dwight Gooden, Keith Hernandez, Gary Carter, Lenny Dykstra, Bobby Ojeda. Abundant talent and a never ending wild streak. New Yorkers were quick to embrace their Mets and the Mets tried to embrace as many fans as they could. New York was still raunchy and Davey Johnson kept a very loose reign on the team. Drugs,women, booze,<br /><br />women,huge egos,fame,women it was all there for the taking as long as they kept winning.Alone, most of the players were conventional and mild mannered. Combined they became combustible.. food fights on the team charter became riots.  This wildly talented and diverse group became a family (the one you might see on Jerry Springer these days) and<br /><br />an unbeatable unit. Later, Bobby Ojeda would remark to Jeff Pearlman\\"you're gonna find we were a vile bunch of f@#*!rs\\".  Davey Johnson promised the team would win,and they did. They were fun to watch and to read about. Even a die hard Texas Rangers fan like me had to keep up with the Wild Bunch. The Bad Guys Won is written with a fan's eye....Jeff Pearlman has covered  major league baseball for Sports Illustrated. I was delighted to look back at rivalries and the different personalities\\" of each team. Mets' management, worried about<br /><br />the antics of the \\"Wild Bunch\\" began to break the team up.  Some players continued on,some continued to self destruct, some moved beyond the game.Jeff Pearlman opens up that wild ride we all took, so we can take that exilerating ride again.h\\" began to break the team up.  Some players continued on,some continued to self destruct, some moved beyond the game.Jeff Pearlman opens up that wild ride we all took, so we can take that exilerating ride again.	2004-09-02
US	50442542	RX517Y1PYJQTA	1594200211	691793905	Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Untouchables?	Between mid June 1933 and the end of 1935 Americans were caught up in the war on crime. J. Edgar Hoover's FBI were trying to rid the country of criminals whose names we still recognize today.....John Dillenger, Bonnie and Clyde,Baby Face Nelson,Alvin Karpis,Ma Barker and her boys. The Lindbergh  kidnaping had left a deeply shaken nation, and Hoover wanted his department to lead the way to a new crime free era. Hoover's men didn't carry guns,they investigated.  That set them at adistinct disadvantage to the gangsters, they carried guns and were willing to use them. Set against the backdrop of the Depression, Byran Burrough introduces us to a group of unforgettable persons,stripping away myth. Interestingly, Hoover, himself is responsible for many of the myths  that sprang up about the G men. These G men were mostly<br /><br />college educated, mixed with some seasoned lawmen who shared the visionof a national bureau designed to stamp out crime.  Some were more driven towards self promotion(Melvin Purvis's legend takes a beating)which was in direct competition with Hoover's need to micro manage and claim the glory.<br /><br />  Familiar crime figures are given faces(not the most attractive bunch)and their backgrounds are fleshed out.The emergence of the planned bank robbery,with getaway car and lookouts raised the stakes. Many of these criminals shared loose ties and often you find members of one gang involved in another's scheme. In a somewhat telling moment Bonnie Parker, when asked what she wanted the public to know about her<br /><br />replied \\"I don't smoke cigars\\". As crimes are carried out, these gangs seem to get away, almost at will. The FBI are slow on the trail, hampered by local police(often corrupt)and their own infighting and unwillingness to check tips and follow up leads. As the public humiliation grows,the bureau begins to catch some lucky breaks and more seasoned lawmen come on determined to stop the lawlessness.The bureau<br /><br />as we now know it began to develop in those months.Thoroughly<br /><br />researched, Public Enemies not only captures the times but accurately portrays the drudgery both a life of crime and a life chasing crime. Some old stories weather the closer look....Dillinger's betrayal by the woman at the movie theater. Some are new.....Hoover insisting on \\"arresting\\" Alvin Karpis after being embarrassed in congressional hearings. A must read for anyone who grew up on \\"The Untouchables\\" and old gangster movies.lop in those months.Thoroughly <br />researched, Public Enemies not only captures the times but accurately portrays the drudgery both a life of crime and a life chasing crime. Some old stories weather the closer look....Dillinger's betrayal by the woman at the movie theater. Some are new.....Hoover insisting on \\"arresting\\" Alvin Karpis after being embarrassed in congressional hearings. A must read for anyone who grew up on \\"The Untouchables\\" and old gangster movies.	2004-09-02
US	50442542	RIOQIR0C3Y0U5	073941478X	277781592	Empty Promises (Ann Rule's Crime Files: Vol 7)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Who is that person beside you, really?	I cannot sleep well if I have read too much Ann Rule.  I find myself looking a little bit longer at the stranger sitting next to me on the bus. I am a wee bit more suspicious of that friendly man down by the pool. Ann Rule continues to dig into her own crime files (a former Deattle area policewoman)and opens  the files on cases that make us ask why? A young woman<br /><br />witnesses her husband murdered, and yet tries to convince the police it was an accidentand his killer is innocent. A recently discharged gay<br /><br />soldier(profiled in People and in the media)tries to tie his new lover's murder with his new celebrity,a once happy, beautiful young woman slowly falls under the control of a<br /><br />sexual predator...her husband, and eventually vanishes.  Rule gives these and other chilling crimes a human face. That is what she does best. In the retelling of not only the crimes, but their impacts on family, friends and community, she is able to jolt us from our thinking...\\"not here, not me\\". She gives human faces to all involved,even the most vile. She also allows parents to once again present a fresh memory of a young, still happy person both victims and perperatrator)and unravels the tangles skeins that weave their deadly frabric. Just don't red too much at once.	2004-09-02
US	50442542	RFOAWWG5RD9RI	0743202988	265273524	Heart Full of Lies: A True Story of Desire and Death	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Deadlier Sex	Are women deadlier than men? Ann Rule attempts to tackle this question in her latest book,\\"Heart Full of Lies\\". Liysa and Chris Northon seemed to have it all. He was a well respected pilot for Hawaiian Airlines, she was beautiful and was becoming well known for her photography and writing. She had a son from a previous marriage and together they had a son. They traveled between a home in Hawaii and Oregon. She had a penchant for sometimes embellishing the truth,or even abandoning the truth all together,but she seemed so nice and there was no real harm in that. When Liysa began to confide in friends that she and the boys were suffering because of Chris's abuse of drugs and alcohol,and that Chris abused her physically, they had no reason to disbelieve her. Then Chris is found dead after a family campout.<br /><br />  Painstaking work by the prosecutors laid bare the woman Liysa really was. She had systematically planned ways not only to kill Chris but also to be in the best financial position as his widow. The vivid stories she had shared with friends and family were true only in her mind. She had always searched for the  \\"perfect love\\",had probably made up past lovers, past traumas,tossed aside two previous husbands because they no longer met her exacting needs. When faced with the overwhelming facts proving her guilt and her endless attempts to<br /><br />manipulate the trial her defense team stopped trying to prove innocence, and worked to get her as little time in prison as possible. The damage is done. Her sons no longer live with her and one's father and the other's stepfather is dead.<br /><br />  Ann Rule is  undoubtedly one of America's best true crime writers,using her own experiences and years of police work.  She is at her best when she slowly unpeels the layers of a person, revealing the evil that lies beneath an attractive veneer. The one aspect that makes this story so chilling is the absolute belief the killer has that she is entitled, and that her \\"truth\\" is the real truth. Not only did she kill, she infected so many lives that can never be completely healed.is the real truth. Not only did she kill, she infected so many lives that can never be completely healed.   <br />	2004-08-31
US	50442542	R18TFV3HU2Z8SP	0743244850	264539370	Are You There Alone?: The Unspeakable Crime of Andrea Yates	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bewildering, Frustrating and Heartbreaking	I was not aware the anniversary of Andrea Yates's horrific crime was near when I started this book. I had tried to stay away from the story. The subject of a mother killing all five of her children was just too difficult. I leafed through the book one day, and found I could not put it down. While the all too familiar story of the killings, the subsequent revelations of Andrea's mental illness, her husband Rusty's seeming inability  and unwillingness to recognize the signs and to render aid to his struggling wife,the role religion seemed to play in the mix...I guess I wondered if there was that \\"something\\". That fact or truth that would make it all seem to make sense. There is no such revelation.  As you read<br /><br />the story you are almost compelled to yell at the main characters, \\"Wake up\\"! The only real \\"new\\" insight is in the portion of the book dealing with Michael Woroniecki, the itinerant preacher who influenced Rusty Yates and later Andrea Yates. He casts blame towards Rusty,calling him arrogant, unwilling to bow to God's plan. Woroniecki is more concerned with the continuation of hiswork and his word,then to pause for a moment to see what role,if any,he and his expectations may have played in this tragedy.<br /><br />  Now we read in the papers that Rusty has filed for divorce, seeking to have more children. He says cannot remain married to Andrea because he cannot \\"trust\\" her with children\\". Huh? And Andrea slips in and out of reality,each time she becomes more in tune with reality she must recognize her children are gone, and she had a hand in their deaths.<br /><br />Suzanne O'Malley  skillfully, and compassionately writes about this tragedy. There are no winners,only the grim reality of missed chances to recognize the crisis, to aid, to step in and to perhaps change the horror. No matter how skillfully written, this books left me with a bitter taste in my mouth. I could only see those five smiling faces.	2004-08-31
US	50442542	R9FW8HXJ4VC1J	0805075453	298790077	The Importance of Being Famous: Behind the Scenes of the Celebrity-Industrial Complex	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The Dangers of Being Famous	Anyone who has read Maureen Orth's writing in Vanity Fair is well acquainted with most,if not all of the subjects in this book. The chapters have brief introductions dissecting the various aspects of fame as we know it today. Orth looks at what constitutes &quot;famous&quot; and how media and curiosity seems to spew out an endless stream of &quot;Famous&quot;.Orth's interviews first appeared on the pages of Vanity Fair. People we read about and see on TV, Madonna, Karl Lagerfield, Laci Peterson, Michael Jackson, Tina Turner,Margaret Thatcher all share bits and pieces<br /><br /> of themselves. Orth has a keen eye for subtleties and is very detail oriented. Often, quotes from her pieces are reprinted in mainstream press, hailed as news,such as Margaret Thatcher's admission she felt her life was &quot;fractured&quot; upon leaving 10 Downing Street. The same may have very well been first said by Fleet Street, but it is given legitimacy when it is reported by Orth. A very few subjects are admirablesuch as Tina Turner and her return from abuse and debt. Most are &quot;famous&quot; because the media have made a practice of writing about them. They seem more impressed with themselves than warrented, and live lives that express contempt for the morals and laws we commen mortals live by. They do not look better under closer scrutiny...they seem decayed and grotesque.Almost all of the subjects of this book have done their time in a less than favorable spotlight.....leading me to think it would have been better titled ...&quot;the Dangers of Being Famous&quot;.	2004-07-25
US	50442542	R1JTGDX7YKGELM	0899199585	581918350	Enough's Enough: And Other Rules of Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Never enough from this cumudgen	Have you heard about the Retentive family of Canada? That's not their real name,it's just what Calvin Trillin dubbed them after reading somewhere that there was a family of four that produced only three bags of garbage a year.Trillin seems to excell in writing about the obvious,odd and ponderable. If he didn't display (quietly)such a sense of humor,I would<br /><br /> suspect he was the neighborhood &quot;Hey you kids, get off my lawn&quot;,guy. Every neighborhood has one, the guy who vigilantly guards his lawnagainst attacks by footballs, frisbees and the damages caused by 42 pound children cutting across the corner). Actually, Mr. Trillin is a sane voice in these times when we are bombarded with information and seem to have lost the ability to sort through the drivel think for ourselves. When asked about childcrearing advice he opines &quot;get one that doesn't spit up.&quot; This collection of his syndicated columns is sure to delight,amuse,irritate and to make you think.	2004-07-25
US	50442542	R3075X5AEH156N	0446533041	975506815	Good Grief	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good Grief....Great Reading	Sophie Stanton wasn't planning on being a 36 year old widow.  Faced with her husband Ethan's death,she tries to be a good widow ...&quot;a graceful composed Jackie Kennedy kind of widow.&quot;  No such luck. Sophie pushes down her grief and anger,until a spectacular work place meltdown(which she attends in her bathrobe and bunny slippers).No longer will she be in public relations at Silicon Valley's Gorgatech,pitching the pluses of the company's new scrotal patch. She can't even face her mother in law, Marion, who seems untouched by her only son's death. She clings to Ethan's belongings and  tries to face life alone.<br />Eventually she finds refuge in Ashton,Oregon living with her college friend Ruth. Life just isn't meant to be pretty. Sophie finds as she tries to navigate building a new life she has to not only accept that Ethan hasn't just &quot;stepped out for a minute&quot; but is never coming home and she can choose to go on.<br />  This is such a tender, witty, well written story that I had a hard time believing it was a first book. Lolly Winston deftly weaves the various stages of grief ,acceptance and continuing life without a false note. The characters are engaging, the situations poignant, heart wrenching and sometimes hilarious (Al,the grief group guy is a classic). Through it all Sophie comes to terms with her loss, Ethan's frailities,and the ability we all have to continue to reach out to help others and heal ourselves.	2004-07-19
US	50442542	R2CBBE6Y0NALDY	0743482077	720221604	The Dog Walker: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A mistaken identity romp	Have you ever fallen in love with someone you don't know?  Nina<br />Shephard has fallen for attorney,Daniel Maguire. She thinks she knows him. After all,she walks his dog and has carefully snooped around his apartment to discover what kind of man he is.  Nina usually snoops around her client's owner's apartments when she comes to picks up their dogs. The world of the professional dog walker has many unusual perks. And would he understand her love of Broadway musicals and the glass wall hangings she has all over her apartment? Billy's work as an investigator for the IRS means he can't always be honest with the peoplehe meets. He never expected to meet a woman like Nina, especially coming out of his twin brother, Daniel's bathroom. Right now he has to<br />concentrate on Constance Chandler and the unknown source of her wealth.Besides,he isn't flashy like his brother.  He's just a regular guy whoplays the trombone to relax. How can he forget  about Nina  when he keeps running into her and the dogs?<br />  Leslie Schnur has crafted a witty tale of modern day life in the big city and the need we all have to be seen for who we really are....and to be loved. I loved it!	2004-07-18
US	50442542	R31W8F11O1FOBX	1583940537	730675524	Walter the Farting Dog	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Laughed until I cried	The title caught my eye at the book store and when I started to read this book I laughed until I cried!  I kept snorting with laughter right there in the store.  Walter is an average dog with an unfortunate problem.....gas.  This book is sure to delight all who read it.  The adults(?) I work with also got a kick out of the illustrations(we played Find the Spider). It also has such a sweet message...we all have a place in this world, a talent all our own.  A wonderful book that is sure to delight all readers.	2004-07-12
US	50442542	R17WCQ3KTM764Y	0525472177	741365336	Walter the Farting Dog: Trouble at the Yard Sale	Books	2	28	30	N	N	Loses the first book.s sweet spirit	From the moment Dad sells Walter at the garage sale without so much as a second thought, this book heads down the wrong path.  It does not have the goofy sweet spirit of the first book.  The kids I read it to were really upset that not only Dad sold the dog, but he lies without even a blink.  Boo Hiss!	2004-07-12
US	50442542	R2HU1P00OW70YC	0446530727	895937790	How to Meet Cute Boys	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not for me	Benjamin Franklin(OK,the name was just a bit too cute)writes for Filly Magazine. She(yes, she)is also trying to find a man who will commit,or just not be an absolute s**t. When her sister Audrey announces her engagement,Ben not only has to reconsider her single state,she has to find a date for the wedding.&quot;How to Meet Cute Boys&quot; is liberally sprinkled with articles,quizzes and wisdom pulled from Filly magazine. Ben used their wisdom as she navigates the single life. And she comes to realize that her life is not so bad after all.This book is filled with pop references and pop psychology. It is a bit too lightweight and fluffy for my taste(or my age group). I got way too many snickers diricted my way as I tried to read this at my desk Maybe a good read for someone younger	2004-07-09
US	50442542	R3SDVCLH2YSKBH	0060723866	281990749	The Assistants: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A look up into Hollywood	This was a hard book to put down. Robin Lynn Williams  follows the lives of five personal assistants in Hollywood.  Michela, working as an assistant to almost has been Victoria Rush (just until she finally gets her own big break).Griffin, not really gay, working for Johnny Treadway,who makes gutter water look deep. Kecia who is more of a babysitter than assistant for the hottest young male star of the moment Travis Trask. Rachel,who is in Hollywood because her best friend Danny rescued her from a dead end life in Sugarland,Texas and her alcoholic mother. Jeb is trying to get anyone interested in his script(...), and runs horrid plot ideas in his head all day. These vastly different people, all are trying to break into showbiz while trying to survive  the abuse and derogation heaped upon them by their bosses. Every Friday they meet at Trader Vic's to share war stories and to gear up for the upcoming week. These characters have their faults and weaknesses,but engage and hold your interest. There are the usual plot twists drugs, sex, poker with geriatrics, the 13 year old computer wiz and vegetable gardening, but it all seems fresh.This book is so engaging and well paced, and there is very little of the coy \\"guess who I am really writing about\\" that plagues other novels about Hollywood. \\"The Assistants\\" spreads the story lines evenly and each has unexpected twists and turns and each character meets their challenges head on.I really enjoyed this book and hope for more by this first time author.	2004-07-09
US	50442542	R1XBZ01IKXUXOC	0399151605	67097076	Divining Women (Gibbons, Kaye)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Something evil this way comes	Something evil this way comes.<br />  There is something about a book that portends disaster and then gently lures you to observe the trecherous event. Kaye Gibbons has crafted such a beguiling tale of madness and redemption that I couldn't put it down.I wanted to,I couldn't stand to see Maureen slowly pulled towards the destruction her husband Troop seemed bent on delivering. Mary Oliver,Troop's 22 year old niece has entered the household so she can be a companion and help to Maureen as Maureen prepares to deliver the couple's first child.Mary is clear eyed and feels the heaviness in the air....and witnesses the malevolence in Troop's actions. She is determined to shield Maureen and her child from the madness that slowly reveals itself and threatens the household. This book was so well paced and so intriguing that I couldn't put it down.I wanted to avert my eyes but I was pulled in and had to know the outcome. A spellbinder!	2004-07-09
US	50442542	R10UQMTYU9G3T0	0670033332	293714732	Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination	Books	1	8	9	N	N	Summer of the really awful books!	Helen Fielding has provided readers with two wildly entertaining books, Bridget Jones's Diary and its followup Bridget Jones: the Edge of Reason.  Olivia Joules has very big pumps to fill. Sadly,this book falls miserably short.  Olivia Joules is on staff of the Sunday Times, a writer who is often distracted from her assignments by flights of fancy.  Given her overactive imagination is it any wonder her boss hesitates to put much stock in her hunches? When Olivia is sent to the United States to cover the launch of a new skin care product line, Creme de Phylgie her suspicions are piqued by Pierre Ferramo, one of the product's inventors. Pierre seems to be<br />captivated by Olivia. She in turn is wary, sure he is involved in much more than skin care. When the newly opened Oceans'sApart, an apartment on the water/cruise liner, is blown to bits right before Olivia's eyes, she is sure  Pierre is involved and may even have ties to al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden!! No one believes her so she decides to get to the bottom of it all.  For once, she'll prove it isn't just her imagination gone amuck. Although, Olivia is supposed to be covering the beautiful people,she seems to keep running into the ugly people, which there are too many.<br />  Sadly, this is a story gone amuck. There is not much that ties these different tangents together. The story veers here and there and it is hard to follow the story or to even care about the character. Plot lines are tossed aside to make way for yet another more implausible story twist.  Even if Olivia does manage to untangle the web of intrigue, we don't care.  We just want her to go away.	2004-07-04
US	50442542	R38Q2K56FIKLGA	0312302819	159752060	Janet and Jackie: The Story of a Mother and Her Daughter, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Mothers and daughters	Jackie Kennedy Onassis is undisputedly one of the most written about women of our time. Surprisingly, there is very little written about her mother Janet Auchincloss. There is no doubt that Jackie was hugely influenced by Janet. Friends and family often remark on Janet's &quot;demands&quot; on both her daughters. Their dress, schooling, deportment were all noted and remarked upon.  Jackie was more openly rebellious than her sister.  Her parent's's divorce was difficult for a young girl who adored her father. Janet, no doubt stung by the public humilation, strove to protect her and her daughters' privacy and aura. Jackie was to go through life trying to reconcile those parts of her personality, the adventurous part(her father) and the socially correct side(Janet).<br />  &quot;Janet and Jackie&quot; chronicles a mother/daughter relationship strained by  divorce,remarriage,unspoken and unmet expectations, changes in society, wealth and fame. It is a portrait of the huge changes in &quot;society&quot; life. Jan Pottker describes a family of women restrained by society and their inability to communicate. &quot;Janet and Jackie&quot; provides a peek into the life of two fascinating women and the times that helped shape them.	2004-07-04
US	50442542	R1PX0WZCSMPED3	1400032644	916629740	The Diary of an American Au Pair: A Novel	Books	1	3	5	N	N	My daughter's diary is more interesting	Melissa is the nanny for the Haig-Ereildoun family. She left San Francisco after losing her job and canceling her wedding to Tedward.  Tedward?  She fled to England and now is the family's nanny/servant, always an the verge of making yet another wrong step. The relationship between Melissa and the three children of the  Haig-Ereildoun family is the strongest part of this book. Other than that, it is all a jumble. Her relationship with her ex-fiancee is hard to figure out(and he is a really annoying character). The Haig-Ereildoun adults are odd, as are<br />their friends. There is a nasty bit of interaction between Melissa and one of the family's young nephews, very disturbing. Characters pop in and out and  the story meanders on and on. iI kept thinking the story would develop, or that i would eventually care about the characters....never happened!Melissa waffles between staying and going. Go already! This was initially published as &quot;Please Try to Speak as We Do&quot;,which I read several years ago.  It was as annoying a read this time around.	2004-07-04
US	50442542	R2W4ADSBZF372O	0375507884	269962803	The Devil's Playground: A Century of Pleasure and Profit in Times Square	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Times Square deserves a more exciting book	Growing up in the early 70's in a smallish town, I was well aware of what would happen to any small town girl lured to New York City to seek her fame and fortune. If you dared climb down from that Greyhound bus you would be immediately sucked into the tawdry and dangerous underbelly of New York, never to escape.<br />  During the early 1900's Times' Square was the center of the<br />city's nightlife. Vaudeville,theaters,speakeasies,nightclubs, the area was covered and celebrated in print,plays and movies.  It was fun and glamorous and often where you went to been seen. As time passed, the glitter lost its shine,Times Square began to openly display the darker side that existed in the shadows.  By the 1960's it was filled with cheap eateries, flophouse, porn shops and peep shows and the people that populated that world.<br />  The 1980's and 1990's brought a rebirth and a whole new idea of what the public would tolerate and a huge infusion of money, changed the face of New York,especially Times Square.  James Traub  chronicles the ever changing cast of characters<br />passing through his familiar area, the huge personalities, political figures,celebrities, gangsters,pretenders, and the various incarnations of the &quot;heart of New York&quot;. It does cause me to wonder.....did cleaning up the heart result is loss of soul?  An  interesting (but dry) read.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R2H6XIVGXX9FSA	0743235606	225234047	Peninsula of Lies: A True Story of Mysterious Birth and Taboo Love	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not the next &quot;Midnight in the Garden og Good and Evil&quot;	Ah, the south, how we love our eccentrics! Dawn Langley Simmons wasbeyond eccentric. Way, way beyond. Reading Edward  Ball's  Peninsula of Lies kept me thoroughly confused, much like most of the people who knew Dawn while she was alive.  Confused, perplexed and more than a bit frustrated.  Sadly, Miss Dawn was not alive to aid the author, so he relies on friends, papers  author is able to talk to the  deceased husband, is the picture pulled into clear focus(sad it takes an interview with a diagnosed paranoid schizophrenic to bring clarity to this mess). I put this book down with mixed feelings....exasperation for all the messes Dawn got herself in and sadness that she felt compelled to go to such lengths.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R5DY6AWVGG5P2	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Keep them coming!	daughter and I battled over who would read the newest Shopaholic book first. &quot;Can You Keep a Secret&quot; introduces a new haracter, Emma, who is not sure what she does at the Panther Corporation.  She would like a promotion.  She would like to one day have her parents notice her instead of always focusing on her cousin Kerry.  Emma knows her boyfriend Connor is a catch, yet she has a nagging feeling there might be someone else out there.  Emma is flying back from Scotland after a meeting with Glenn Oil that might have been the key to becoming a junior executive....a meeting that went horribly. Seated next to an American, she is glumly thinking of what she can do to  Panicked,  she clutches her companion in the next seat and spills her guts and begins to tell all.  Not the polite chit chat  that strangers share. She tells all....her real dress size, eating ice cream stuffing the empty containers in the bin, losing her virginity while her parents were watching TV in the next room, sneaking out from work to meet her friend at Starbucks (divulging their codeword, no less), all  the things you might tell a best friend over time, not a complete stranger all at once. Thank heavens Emma will never have to see that slightly overwhelmed American ever again. Having voiced all that,Emma feels as though she cannot  get back into step with her life.  And the American reappears, as her new boss. This was such a romp to read, was snickering half the time (note to self:read boring books at desk at work) and I was sad to finally finish it. I eagerly await the next book.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R3E1W1OTV9CBA6	0670033073	683116309	The Second Assistant: A Tale from the Bottom of the Hollywood Ladder	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lend this book out and hope it isn't returned!	The Second Assistant, a Tale From the Bottom of the Hollywood Ladder has so much promise. Written by two &quot;Hollywood insiders&quot; it has the lipsmacking potential of a summer &quot;can't put down&quot; book. Sadly, yawn,it is a standard tale of a naive young woman(this time a former congressional intern,yeah,I believe that)who lands a job at one of Hollywood's top talent agencies. And right after arriving in LA,she has a unbelievable night of making out with a man she only knows as Jake(known to the rest  of the world as Jake Hudson,president of a Motion Picture Studio).<br />  Broadly written and cramming nearly every cliche in the book into its pages, this is a hard book to keep reading.  There is a small element of name dropping(or guessing who a character really is is)in the story, which can be mildly entertaining.  The characters are too predictable, and barely worth<br />keeping straight. The story is bogged down with cliches  and is way too predictable. This had so much potential.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R3PFWA6JYCMWO7	1573222666	383775935	Blue Blood	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A very human face to the badge	Edward Conlon is fourth generation NYPD. Blue Blood chronicles his journey from the academy to detective.  It is a nitty gritty book,filled with the day to day of police work. departmental rivalries,drudgery, the endless paperwork, trying to make a case , acronyms (I started keeping a crib sheet), the revolving door for criminals,  the absurdity of regulations, the necessary evils of informants. Reading this book  was an exercise of determination, I was determined to make it through to the last page. If this contains just a small portion of the whole(and this is a long book),it is an amazing testament to the perseverance of this man, and the majority of those who served with him. Conlon is remarkably candied about politics within the department, the grandstanding, playing the race card, the grinding day in and day out and  the toll it takes on the rank and file. Some of the department regulations are so silly or impossible that it makes you wonder how anything got done. I even tried ti use Dutch Elm Disease when I called in sick after reading this book! While it would seem easy (and understandable) to demonize the criminals and their neighborhoods, he is quicker to  seethe human element, to laugh at the absurdities (House Voodooful) and to mention the shared price we all pay. I have even a deeper respect for the individuals in law enforcement, the huge effort and sacrifice they make and the hope they seem to share to somehow make their part of the worldbetter.  The final section covering 9-11 and the aftermath is mesmerizing, and  hard to turn away from, even though it makes you want to cry.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R3F94P7NEFUBRJ	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Others tell the story better	The tale of Sugar,the young [prostitute],introduced to brothel life by her mother,is an epic read. The  world of 1870's London is filled with many such girls, but Sugar promises to fulfil your every desire. William Rackham is a moderately successful perfume maker, son of the owner of the company. He is shackled by an ill wife and a young daughter he ignores. His brother Henry is caught up in his own efforts to live a more chaste life, and to aide in slum reform (specifically prostitutes).  William and Sugar's lives intersect when William seeks<br />female company to vent his anger and passion upon.  He finds himself drawn to the young girl and soon he is obsessed by her. He strikes a bargain with her mother to have her available to him exclusively, eventually moving her into her own home, and bestowing her with a generous allowance. Sugar is not content to simply be available to service William. She reads and writes and teaches herself the finer points of the perfume business.  Soon she is William's sounding board,aiding him as his financial star rises. She convinces him to install her as his young daughter's governess, moving into his household. Sugar<br />is daring to hope William will recognize her contributions to his business success as well as her successes with his daughter, Sophie.<br />  I had a hard time adjusting to the odd narrative style of this book. There is an unknown narrator guiding the reader which I found distracting. The book is richly filled with descriptions of Victorian morals, dress, society and  customs.  I was too distracted by the narrator and bogged down in the round about story, especially  Agnes Rackhams's decent into madness.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R3FP5KHZZ51JJ8	1401300065	927084964	Gasping For Airtime: Two Years In the Trenches of Saturday Night Live	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Life as comedy	The perils of the new job. How do you get to your office if the front desk security guy doesn't recognize you? Whose jokes do you laugh at? Is there hidden meaning behind desk placement, dressing room size? What exactly do they want from me,anyway?  Jay Mohr was a writer/performer on SNL  from 1993 to 1995. The disorganization that produced so much brilliant comedy also  reduced the comic into a panicked, self doubting mess....much like many people with their first \\"real\\" job. The difference is most jobs aren't potential broadcast material on a weekly<br />basis.  Gasping For Airtime is not a  \\"tell all\\" about the behind the scenes SNL. The stories of infighting, horrible guest hosts, and pranks are in there, wildly funny times on and off air with Chris Farley and others. It is  more the story of someone trying to fit into a place where they desperstely want to belong, and never quite feelong as if they have accomplished<br />that goal. Mohr has a dry ,selp deprecating way about him, writing more like a fan of the show and the guest musicians, then a castmember....oh, excuse me, bit player.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	RSO24CQPQO38B	0060566671	281861662	Talking to the Dead: Kate and Maggie Fox and the Rise of Spiritualism	Books	3	8	12	N	N	A disappointment	The late 1840's brought a rebirth of spiritual and  religious fervor to the United States.  The young Fox sisters, recently moved to Hydesville, New York seem too young to have been touched.  Kate, age 11 and Maggie, age 14 soon report strange knocks and raps throughout the house, alarming their mother.  Soon neighbors are brought in to witness the strange goings on, the noises, furniture moving, and the sisters' abilities and motives are under question.  The goings on are attributed to spirits of those gone before and the sisters enter the public eye.<br />  &quot;Talking to the Dead follows the two Fox sisters, along with their oldest sister Leah, as they become the  darlings of the Spiritualist movement, courted by the rich and famous of their day to hold seances and to contact dear departed ones.  It also examines the personal toll this all took on the sisters, the lack of a private life, the fluctuations of income, the many who depended on them for finances and support.  The characters who take the women under their wings are almost bigger than life, and the sisters seem to become whatever those around them wish them to become.  Throughout the 1800's the Foxes's were adored, feared and reviled. Ultimately, they would decry spiritualism,and claim they were pawns of an older, cunning sister and mother.  Later they would  retract their denial.  This book is a bit dry, and it is hard to read about the movement without having a jaundiced, modern eye.<br />It is a fascinating study of family life during that time, and some of the strange forces  brought to bear on it.	2004-06-29
US	50442542	R31KZQ7H3B8UFF	0345468570	799848414	The Botox Diaries	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Worth the laugh lines	The Botox Diaries is a romp through midlife. Jessica Taylor is a single mother on the fringe of the \\"beautiful people\\".  Jess's best friend Lucy Baldor, is a TV producer and Jess's work with the Art Council for Kids has her rubbing shoulders with the city's elite. Of course she also has her 11 year old daughter,Lily to keep up with. Lilly has decided her mom needs to marry again,and has taken steps to bring that man right to her doorstep. Jess might have been more aware of Lily's plotting except Lucy has announced she has taken a lover,Hunter Green, the game show host. Jess cannot believe that her best<br />friend is willing to risk her marriage to Dan, the too good to be true husband and father. Lucy seems oblivious to the risk, diving headfirst into tantricsex, botox and unbelievable lingerie. Jess can only watch and hope the resulting disaster doesn't destroy their friendship. Oh, her former husband, Jacques is pleading with her to join him in Dubai. Will Jess<br />find true love, or even, just a nonscarring date? Will she be able to talk Lucy into recognizing the treasure of a husband she has at home? What about the impending visit from Cosmo's hunk of the month? And the Arts Council is about to present My Fair Lady on Broadway with a grade school age cast. This is a delightful romp through the perils of the over 40's crowd. You'll either laugh  or wince, but you'll never be bored. A great summer read.	2004-06-27
US	50442542	R1BE0ZHEAHXKIV	1401300065	927084964	Gasping For Airtime: Two Years In the Trenches of Saturday Night Live	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A wry slice of SNL	Jay Mohr's  &quot;Gasping for Airtime, Two Years in the Trenches of Saturday Night Live&quot; was not at all what I expected.   I expected another tell all tome, full of excess and  raw humor.  I was pulled into Mohr's account of  his  bewildering adustment to the  show's traditions, cliques, speech and hours.  Full of snippets featuring some of the musical guests from those two years, Charles Barkley's  merciless pummeling of  a stunt Barney , and   Chris Farley's unabashed attempts to make fellow cast members laugh on air  it is a window on the Saturday Night Live  we see today.  Jay Mohr is likeable, and I found myself worrying along with him as his body and psyche attempted to  fit into the wildly energetic SNL workplace.  Some stories made me wince, then laugh.	2004-06-27
US	50442542	R1ATSDY2SS8WR2	0066211115	10483428	Islands	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Another Anne Rivers Siddons classic	Anny Butler has made her way through life,caring for her younger<br />brothers and sisters, then finding work with children in need.  While taking yet another young client for medical care, she meets Dr. Lewis Aiken, orthopedic surgeon and son of one of Charleston's prominent families.  Despite their wildly divergent upbringings, they fall in love.  Their marriage is embraced by the group of friends from Lewis's childhood, the &quot;Scrubs&quot;.  Lives intertwined,  they often retreat to the  adventures.  They vow that when the time comes, they will come to the island to care for one another.  The heart of the group is Camilla Curry, one of the original Scrubs,  she worries and mothers  them all, gently chiding them for their behavior.  No matter what life brings, death, fire, loss they can always return to the  island for comfort and renewal. Things are not always as they seem.  The  island cannot soothe the undercurrent of loss and bewilderment that unsettle the remaining Scrubs, or protect them from unseen dangers.<br />  Anne Rivers Siddons remains one of my favorite southern writers. &quot;Islands&quot; has an unerring ear for the rythyms of life in the south, blending  a diverse  group of people  into a seamless story.  Characters come to life.  Never patronizing, or  slipping too far into cliches(though  Gaynelle is almost too far the other way ) she brings to life people who share a past and  love and who see things in the  gentle light of caring.  Sometimes secrets are revealed too late and love is<br />not enough to save the ones you love.	2004-06-27
US	50442542	R382UAQAS7MXBA	038548187X	136266992	Molto Agitato: The Mayhem Behind the Music at the Metropolitan Opera	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The drama is behind the scenes!!	The subtitle &quot;The Mayhem Behind the Music at the Metropolitan Opera&quot; says it all.  Johanna Fiedler, the daughter of the Boston Pop's Arthur Fiedler, brings an insider's eye to the New York Metropolitan Opera.  Beginning with the attempts to provide society with a place to be seen, and perhaps also enjoy opera, the Met has been a showplace of great talent and ego.  On both sides of the curtain, and stagelights for that matter.  To keep such an artictic company running it has taken mant talents from the management talent of Rudolf Bing to the mecurial brillance of Kathleen Battle.  This well written tome brings it to the reader, warts and all.  This is an engaging read for any lover of the Saturday broadcasts , as well as any lover of theatre and opera.	2002-08-08
US	50442542	R2D8FXN5A5PGAT	0375506098	521680638	Over the Edge: The True Story of Four American Climbers' Kidnap and Escape in the Mountains of Central Asia	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Unbelievable	The tale of four young rock climbers escaping from shadowy rebel captors burst into national consciousness in August of 2000, I remember thinking &quot;Why is this the first time we've heard anything about this?&quot;.  Greg Child has crafted a hard to put down answer to that as well as the heartpounding tale of the four climbers...Jason Smith, John Dickey, Tommy Caldwell and Beth Rodden, and their almost unbelievable tale of survival. Traveling to a remote area of Kyrgyzstan to tackle a challenging climb, the four were not aware they were entering a zone rife with political turmoil.  The remote area was favored as a training ground for various factions of militant..including the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan.  Taken captive, along with others, by the rebel group the four begin a desperate journey across the inhospitable terrain, at gunpoint.  They saw a fellow hostage executed before their eyes,and began to realize the grim fate that was theirs.  In furtive conversation, driven by fear, hunger and an will to survive the four begin to realize that their survival will depend solely on them and they formulate a desperate escape plan.  But if they do manage to escape they are faced with a treck through difficult territory, not just inhospitable form the elements and terrain, but from the unknown warring factions who may inhabit it.  Even more unbelievable are the naysayers who downplay the four's peril and even try to refute the whole tale once they have reached freedom.  In a theme that has become famlair in other mountain climbing books, there seems to be as much drama in  the  few within the  mountian climbing community's attempts to tear down the climbers, once their physical ordeal is over. This is a gripping tale of survival and the ability to overcome.	2002-08-08
US	50442542	RRBZQQ1BVB0EL	0449002268	302391888	News of the Spirit (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sit back and enjoy the stories spun by Lee Smith	Lee Smith has become one of the writers I have learned to count on for a consistantly good tale.  News of the Spirit contains some of the best so far.  As I read about Alice Scully's scandelous writing submitted to the Happy Memories Club (the writing group in her old folk's home) I could relate.  There is the tale of the wild brother &quot;Bubba&quot; invented by a young woman away from home at college and hoping to increase her chances of being accepted by her more worldly roommmates.  These and other tales remind us of those we know, the ones we were raised with, the relatives, friends and the &quot;talked about&quot;  that come and go.  Each Lee Smith character is fleshed out, and becomes alive, she enjoys her characters and exploring the human condition. I hated to see this book end, and found myself turning the pages back to have just a little bit more time.	2002-08-08
US	50442542	RM5PMQZ80FZBI	0385327455	271989492	Molly and the Magic Dress	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A magic dress?	Molly has a favorite dress and it has become very worn and tattered from constant wear.  When she wears it she can be anything and often includes her cat Slim Enid in her adventures.  When Molly is forced to wear a new dress to a \\"very important wedding\\" she is dismayed, but packs her favorite dress in a backpack to comfort her.  What happens next includes a chance meeting with a homeless woman and a miracle of a small girl's belief.  I wasn't that taken with the story, noy really liking the illustrations and finding the story a bit simple.  I sat down with a friend's little girl and got a whole new perspective, She loved the story!  It was this little friend who told me what the story was about, nice things are good, but being nice is always better.	2002-07-31
US	50442542	R1NQVJIWJGKY6L	0375506764	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Let Tepper read in peace	Murray Tepper doesn't ask much of life.  he has worked for years selling lists, and has a grown daughter and a loving wife.  After work, and on weekends he likes to get in the car and find a parking place.  A familiar hunt if you have ever been foolish enough to try to park on the streets of New York City.  Once he finds the perfect parking place, Murray likes to relax and read the paper...much to the constarnation and puzzlement of others.  Not even the threats of others looking for a parking spot can take away from his pleasure.  Not even when his wife and daughter and friends question his sanity, does he stop.  You see, Tepper isn't going out, he just wants to read and maybe get some really good whitefish.  This \\"odd\\" behavior seems to pique the curiosity of his felloe New Yorkers, until even the highest levels of city government are invilved and determined to see Tepper behave appropiately.  Very funny, with the Mayor Frank Ducavelli wound tighter and tighter as he tries to restore order to the problem...I had to bite my lip to keep from laughing as I sat in my car in the parking garage at work, I couldn't put it down.	2002-07-31
US	50442542	R2I5RPURXWL1F1	0743222172	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The sinking of the Arctic	With an eye to maritime history, David W. Shaw recounts the heady days of the American fleets' domination of the high seas...and the dreadful price paid because of pride and ignorance.  The details are well written and there are several people who come to life, especially captain James C. Luce who made the voyage with his sickly son.  Using the available newspaper reporting, as well as the testimony of surviving eyewitnesses, this book is a harrowing tale of the perils of the seas and a engrossing read.	2002-07-31
US	50442542	R3UL6168LO6VXF	0275973387	151970588	This Is the Zodiac Speaking: Into the Mind of a Serial Killer	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Packed full of information	The case of the Zodiac killer who haunted the San Francisco bay area in the late 60's is a facinating story.  The never caught Zodiac was not only a killer, but a prolific writer as he kept the police at bay.  This well researched book not only seems to be the definitive book on the crimes but provides a facinating glimpse into the mind of a serial killer.  Also proffered are several very plausable theories about who the killer might be, not by name, but by description, and the reason he has disappeared from our view.  The crimes seem strangely antiseptic after all this time, but having lived through that time and remembering the hushed conversations of the horror.  My only disappointment is ther is no conclusion, no suspect.  It is only in this factor that the story becomes a bit too academic and dry.	2002-07-31
US	50442542	R2FFDAI9BZTODW	0767903579	648018356	Falling Leaves: The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Falling leaves,  broken childhood dreams	The subtitle, &quot;The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter&quot; is all too revealing.  Adeline Yen Mah's account of growing up in China, the last daughter from her father's first marriage, is a heartwrenching tale of neglect and betrayal.  Some of the neglect can be explained by culture, but mostly the children raised in the Joseph Yen household were at the mercy of the mericural step-mother who seemed determined to sever them from all that was their birthright.  If any of the children crossed<br />'Niang' they were liable to be punished physically or worse.  Despite the complete lack of affection from her father and his wife, Adeline tries to gain their attention and approval through her schooling.  It is a bitter lesson to discover that the only interest they have is in what her gains can provide them.  The sadness could be the stoory, but each page is suffused with the unquenchable spirit of a young girl who is determined to prove her worth one day.  While still in her home, she has allies in her aunt, great-aunt, and her grandfather.  They too, must contend with the harsh conditions that prevail, soo becoming completely dependant on Adeline's father, or more frightening, her step-mother.  Adelines rise in school, her determination to forge ahead make this an unforgettable story.  The heartbreaking realization that her wish to be recognized as an important part of the family may never come true.  This is a storyteller with a story to tell, not an ax to grind.  The triumph of her kindness of spirit and honesty shines through and is the real reward in this book.	2002-06-21
US	50442542	R2D5PK1KAV0JT2	0140238956	489436929	Early Days	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A must for all Miss Read fans	Early Days is actually the combination of two Miss Read autobiographies...A Fortunate Grandchild and Time Remembered.  In this very readable compillation, the author Dora Shafe recalls her life in a rambling home in Southe London.  There is an extended family near at hand and much love to balance the demands and strains of everyday.  Although the Great War was stll a looming presence, there are stories of how holidays were celebrated and trips to the seaside.  Dora also tells of her school adventures and the discovering the Kent countryside that her family had relocated to.  Adjustment to school and 'country ' life was a  challange and an adventure.  In this simple retelling it is east to discover the roots of the Thrush Green stories and the communities that have become so beloved to so many readers.  This is a delightful book, a must for all Miss Read fans	2002-06-21
US	50442542	RQ46X8GSIYCDF	0375757678	430089392	Due South: Dispatches from Down Home	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dispatches from the  south I still miss after 27 years	I picked up this book one day and decided to give it a read because of the Fannie Flagg blurb on the front.  What a treat!  R. Scott Brunner has pulled together a collection of southern life that brings out the best, the rediculous and the beloved...and a few things we try to keep hidden.  From the 'Bless your heart' rule, to the neighbors who tried to befriend Eudora Welty, there is a bit of everyone you know and love in the words. Never pandering to what the popular belief of what a Southerner should be, he points out what there is to love (and to laugh about) around us, the sights and smells and foods and sounds and people all evoke a south I miss every day of my life.  In all this  he has also managed to include, or rather infuse the pieces with a gentle belief in the goodness of folks, and some inspiration gleened from everyday.  A real charmer of a book.	2002-06-21
US	50442542	R3HL2ANW9BLK95	0375502564	516758394	Carryin' On: And Other Strange Things Southerners Do	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Yet another gem from a master of southern sketches	From the opening phrase &quot;Common is as common does&quot;  R.Scott Brunner once again returns his readers to the south, a land he obviously enjoys.  These short stories cover many things about everyday life, with the southern bent that makes it so unique to anyone from  or living in the south.  Whether examining the strange (to others) bit and pieces of language...&quot;I swan&quot;, to &quot;tote&quot; someone somewhere, &quot;to grind on one's last nerve&quot; or to find a &quot;slew&quot; of something...it was like being home for a visit (and I didn't have to explain my language choices to my Utah neighbors, oh my heck!).  He examines our foiables and strengths ans presents them with a gentle humor.  My favorite, the piece  &quot;Common Prayers&quot;  with its look at the prayer as a form of problem solving.  It is true, I was raised to be ready to pray at the drop of a hat!  Mant write about the south, but few seem to enjoy their life ther or resonate such a love as Brunner.  Another charmer of a book.	2002-06-21
US	50442542	R34W7BGJLU65I1	0425183785	398047688	Sweet Tea and Jesus Shoes	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Like sitting on the porch and chatting with friends	This is my kind of book, good stories and great recipes!  Several  'southern' writers have gathered their favorites...in both foods and stories and these stories make for a wonderful summer's read.  From the dilemma of what to do with the (somewhat functional) outhouse that the man of the house just can't let go of, to the rememberences of our first time at Vacation Bible School and the original  &quot;what would Jesus do&quot; we all struggled with at a young age, these women have tapped a vein of southern storytelling that runs sweet and deep.  Some will have you laughing out loud, some will send you back in time, but all are infused with a real knowledge and love for the south.  Danna Ball, Sandra Chastain, Debra Dixon, Virginia Ellis, Nancy Knight and Deborah Smith combined for the 16 stories tht will enchant any lover of southern fiction.	2002-06-21
US	50442542	RKYJG34S6VS2V	0671001132	127006476	Dead by Sunset	Books	4	10	12	N	N	If your'e divorced and dating again, don't read Ann Rule!!	One of, if not the best in the True Crime genre, Ann Rule weaves the unbelievable, (if it weren't all true) tale of Brad Cunningham, left a widower when his wife's body was discovered in an abandoned car.  The car was discovered in the fast lane of traffic with Cheryl Keeton's battered bodt behind the wheel, already dead.  But all is not as it seems.  Ann Rule is able to piece together the facts behind the case, especuially when family and police begin to believe that Brad is not just the grieving widower.  With exhaustive research, Rule fills out the story, the marriage between Brad and Cheryl that started with such promise, and the children that became pawns in Brad's quest to get away from a crumbling marriage.  Piecing together facts about his childhood , Rule draws a portrait of a ruthless killer who would sacrifice anything that could no longer help him, or threatened to get in his way.  Detailing his financial manuverings, legal wranglings and multiple marraiges it is soon clear the \\"great catch\\" Brad Cunningham is not at all wht he appears.  So if you are newly on the dating scene, take my advice, either give up reading Ann Rule, or get a good PI!	2002-06-21
US	50442542	R2HYCETOYTJ0OQ	0446530085	219114128	The Bondwoman's Narrative	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Facinating.....	A historical and literary find, The Bondwoman's Narritave  is the heretofore unpublished manuscript believed to be written by Hannah Crafts, a female slave who is believed to have been self educated, and at some time either escaped or freed.<br />  The story contained is of a young house slave, Hannah, who is privy to many of the secrets of the house in which she lives and works.  A henious  cruelty by her master causes a curse to be placed by a dying slave against the master's house and a series of unfortunate events begin to take place.  This young slave takes leave with the new bride of the master's son, fearing the revelation of a terrible secret that will destroy the family.  After many months, she and her mistress are found and are returned, only to both be placed in servaitude. There is a seering description of some of the methods of procuring slaves, and the disdain that the general public held slave traders in.  Chafing against the cruelty of slavery, she seeks placement with a kinder family of the much sought after release, but to no avail.  This work of fiction is believed to be based largely on the author's own life, and is quick moving and very readable.  The events are clear and moving and engaging.  Throughout the time she writes about  she is a clear eyed observer of the people around her, and comes in contact with people of all sorts.  She is able to talk about the delineation between whites and blacks  and observe the difficulty that whites have at that time with associating  blacks as humans, even the whites working against slavery.<br />  There is also a sizable piece explaining the authentication of the manuscript and the sizable eforts made to find the person who wrote the book.  Henry Louis Gates Jr.  details his excitement as step by step he was able to determine that the paper, ink, binding thread was all actual to the times.  With the help of various genelogical tools he also brieflt tells the search for the author.  This would be worthy of a book of its own.  A great book from beginning to end.y of a book of its own.  A great book from beginning to end.	2002-06-03
US	50442542	R1ARXD4VC9JMGT	0345410424	107851074	Cakewalk	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Listening to wonderful southern voices	Lee Smith continues to be a unique voice of the south.  Cakewalk is a collection of short stories that bring together a diverse group of people that only Lee could create. Debbi  has left her old life behind and has started a life with Bobby who has a job with dolphins at hte Seaquarium. It is just a matter of time before Debbi and Bobby are able to get things on track.  Lauren and her friend georgia Rose and the terible gift Georgia Rose had...the gift of foresight.  Florrie, the cake lady who is married to Earl Mingo and their unconventional marriage.  Florrie's cakes keep her family together and her home safe.  Martha Resnick is writing a letter to Phil Donahue, the only adult she feels she has a constant connection with in her life, at least she can count on him to show up every morning.  All these people and many more are like the people you may know and Lee Smith is able to bring each of their stories and many more to the page with humor and a keen ear to the south.	2002-06-03
US	50442542	RHG6NFRE0XQOD	0062517465	259860376	Garden of Faith: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Get reacquainted with old friends	It is time to return to Hope Springs. The Cookbook Committee continues to meet, even after the cookbook has been finished, but the group keeps meeting,  and each woman keeps an eye and her heart out on the others.  The pastor, Charlotte Stewart is troubled by the undercurrents she senses, and the questions she struggles with.  Nadine struggles with her daughter's death by trying to follow her, as the other women try to tempt her to stay.  Margaret faces a health crisis as Jessie renews the marriage long given up as dead, and looks to new horizions .  Framed by the Hope Springs Community Garden Club Newsletter the book unfolds as each of these women try to meet her challanges.  It is the friendships that these women have forged that enable each to rise to her individual challange, but realize that the friendships that bind them are irreplaceable.  Lynne Hinton has been able to continue the story that began in Friendship Cake and has continued to develop the characters that have grown so dear to our hearts.  A wonderful book that does not disappoint, and leaves me wishing the next would be out sooner.	2002-06-03
US	50442542	R3INH45FL24V0B	1586480278	941974007	Washington	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Why Washington is the way it is....	Written as she neared her death, Meg Greenfield puts forth the argument that Washington, D.C. is much like high school.....that social code that is based on being seen with the right people, in the right places.  It makes me shudder thinking of Newt Gingrich or Tom Daschill as the BMOC  and greatful that while they may have had some say on public policy, my self worth is not based on either of them noticing me on the way to civics! Written with an insiders's eye and an acid wit, Washington is the ultimate insider's view of the weird world of the Beltway.  While it is entertaining to read, and it is fun to try to guess who is who, I find myself wishing I knew more about the author.  What a shame that there is not a book about Meg Greenfield.	2002-06-03
US	50442542	R22ZX8F4S28E79	0345445848	287871634	Big Cherry Holler: A Novel (Big Stone Gap)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not quite four stars	Ave Maria Mulligan returns, this time as the wife of coal miner Jack McChesney and mother of Etta.  The supporting cast of personalities in Big Stone Gap are still there, but there are big changes on the horizion.  Theodore has left the small town to dazzle the college crowd with his half time spectaculars, leaving Ave marie without her sounding board.  When the mine closes and Jack Mack has to look to find something to fill up that big hole in his life, Ave Marie isn't sure that she is still enough.  Soon, it seems like every move she makes, no matter how good her intentions, is taken wrong and there is no hope for a happy ending.  It is not until she returns to visit her father in Italy, and also is forced to look at some hard truths about herself, that Ave Marie discovers the answers she is looking for.  The answers that lie in Big Stone Gap.	2002-06-03
US	50442542	R3A91DE2551O9P	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A  sharp, slightly skewed look at finally growing up...maybe	If I had a Will Freeman in my close cirlce of friends I do not know that I would look upon him with the fond bemusement I bestowed upon Will throughout this very readable book. I suspect I would wonder if he was ever going to grow up and become substantial enough to throw a shadow...even worse, I would be suspicious of Will's absolute enjoyment of his feckless ways, and have to mutter with friends (sensibly ensconsed in jobs, relationships and debt) about the certain ruin it was bound to bring.  Will Freeman, and all the various people in \\"About a Boy\\"  are deftly drawn and manage not to become cartoon characters.  Once I picked it up, I had a hard time putting it down......I wanted to see how Marcus, the boy, would manage with all the adults in his life, the newest being Will. Will, did not ever ask for Marcus.  Marcus just kept showing up and Will just got used to him  until an unlikely friendship takes hold.  This friendship, no matter how strange will get them through some pretty bizzare and some pretty tough times.  What remains is what remains with the reader when the book is over, a sense of community, no matter how odd that we all can piece together.  And there are plenty of laugh out loud moments.  Especially when my daughter mentioned that SPAT (Single Parents Alone Together) sounded better and more descriptive  if it were SPLAT ...(add Loser).  A weak laugh from newly divorced mom!	2002-05-26
US	50442542	RIIPNA83LISPE	0525946446	769466547	Pen Pals	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Back in better form	Jennifer Anne Spencer was just trying to earn a living(OK a very good living) awhen she  took the fall for her fiancee, Tom and their  boss Donald as the SEC and justice department came after his brokerage firm.  Not to worry, the fiancee would get her out of jail quickly and Donald would reward her for her loyalty.  No one let Judge Levitt in on the way things were supposed to go, and Jennifer was not supposed to be going to Jennings Correctional Faculity for Women.  Poor Jen.  Once she lands in the pen she comes under the stewardship of Warden  Gwendolyn Harding, and the group of women who not only help her accept the betrayal of the men in her life, but these women form an unlikely aliance and eventual friendship.  Pen Pals has a bit of substance to it as it touches on the difficult subject of women in prisin and gives excellent recommended reading at the end of the book. After &quot;Bad Boys&quot; I was hesitant to read another Olivia Goldsmith book.  I know the formula, &quot;He done her wrong, not just wrong, but Bad wrong, and she can't believe it, but then she picks herself up by the bootstraps, or brastraps, and not only gets even but emerges wiser and usually richer, and he gets his in the end.&quot;  And with her sharp dialogue and edgy characters Olivia Goldsmith does this better than almost anyone else.	2002-05-26
US	50442542	R2B6GNP28IJP1N	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Good for a laugh&amp;feel better about your parenting skills	When a book is surrounded by a media blitz it is easy to hesitate before reading it, especially a first novel.  Don't let that stand in the way of reading The Nanny Diaries.  Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus have crafted a funny, sharp look at the nanny business from the working end...Nanny, as she is to be known, has decided that part-time child care will be the perfect way to pay for her final year  at NYU.  After all, she has been babysitting for years, been a nanny before and knows what to look out for.  When the X family finds her,and she becomes the part-time tender for Grayer her careful plans seem to be working, for a moment.  This humerous, bittersweet novel looks at the lives of the people who care for Grayer and no matter how she tries, Nanny is swept into the web of the X'es lives.  Soon it seems every waking moment is to be available to cater to Mrs. X as well as to follow odd, intricate instructions regarding Grayer's food.  Despite the mountains of lists and educational enrichments,and unrealistic expectations,  Nanny and Grayer soon do what nannys and kids have done for years ....play and have fun.  And as Nanny sees the adults in his life seemingly fall apart she is determined to help him just stay a little boy.  I talked to several friends who have worked as nannies and they said the book ran true with them, not so much the specifics, but the tug of war of trying to balance concern for a very snmall boy with &quot;it's just my job&quot;.	2002-05-26
US	50442542	R33SZCPZUCRW15	0805064583	32369664	Dr. Eckener's Dream Machine: The Great Zeppelin and the Dawn of Air Travel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	When Zeppleins ruled the skies	Sometimes, as the great zeppelins would cross the skies , people below would run in panic fearing the end of the world.  Douglas Botting has offered up a glimpse into the creation of the zeppelin as a means of travel and war.  He also gives an invaluable look into the world at that time.  One man during the early 1900's was more close identified with the zeppelin and pioneered the continuation of development and usage , Hugo Eckener. This same Dr.Eckner would always be looking for ways to improve the zeppelins he would soon fly all over the world.  This book follows the refinement of the zeppelin design during his time as well as the expansion of the use of the zeppelin, for both travel and commerce.  Also explored is the limited success the zeppelin had as a war time airship and the continual search for ways to use it for both peaceful and wartime purposes.  As the zeppelin became a travel ship, even though for only the very rich, the voyages were followed in the press.  Randolph Hearst even bankrolled a round-the-world flight to set a new record.  The people who traveled on zeppelins became celebrities.  As the excitement of the possibilities of zeppelin travel becan to swell there was the evergrowing threat posed by the government of Dr. Eckner's Germany, the Nazi party.  This book combines the feel of the times, and introduces some real personalities of those years.  We see how these huge airships truly managed to capture the popular imagination.  Not at all a dry  read.	2002-05-26
US	50442542	RUWXJTYLNLKKQ	0684853167	351064083	Revenge: A Story of Hope	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Breathtaking in its humanity	There are times in reading Laura Blumenfeld's revenge that I inwardly cringe, wishing there was a bit more introspection to her crusade.  What made this book so compelling is the message that we all have the ability to choose our own revenge for past hurts.  Laura is very honest about her wish to somehow find a revenge for the shooting of her father.  What drives the story is the intertwining of the lives of her and her family, and her quest to find out all she could about the man who shot her father.  This quest compells her to live in Isreal and to seek out and get to know the family of the shooter.  It also forces her to confront some of the feelings she has as a Jew towards the turmoil in Isreal and the continuing violence.  As she comes closer to confronting the shooter, she finds that all is not cut and dried, and that there are other currents beneath her quest for revenge.  The clarity and honesty that this story is told with is breathtaking, for it confronts the dilemna of revenge, and the seemingly never-ending cycle it nutures.  I could not put this book down, partly because it had no pat ending, no made for TV ending.  It was honest and does not pretend to know the solutions for the continuing cycle of violence.  It is simply a story of how one young woman came to confront and understand the drive which seems to take over her life, and how she does not let that quest destroy her.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R21AS5BUCPC9RZ	0679437460	350305948	Ordinary Life: Stories	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A brief taste, but no substance	Elizabeth Berg books are a treat to be savored and &quot;Ordinary Life&quot; had all the promise of another delight.  All the necessary parts are there, characters who ring true, family dynamics, true to ear dialogue.....but this book falls short. With all these pluses, it is all tossed into a thrown together book that seems more like some story outlines, not actual stories.  Each story is brief, too brief and each one suffers from the brivity.  There is no opportunity to develop each story, just a scrap here and there......This book is a disappointment, perhaps because I have come to expect more.  This is like Elizabeth Berg lite.  Go back to one of her others, and pass this one by.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	RUXYLWYAAT5CS	0312269587	268236099	Plane Insanity: A Flight Attendant's Tales of Sex, Rage, and Queasiness at 30,000 Feet	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Just the book to read on that long flight!	Elliot Hester manages to lift the lid on all the worst of sky travel, and yet does it in such a winning way that you don't mind your foiables as the flying public being aired.  After all, I have been guilty of carrying on loaves of Mrs. Baird's bread and trying to find them a safe place in the overhead.  What makes this such an enjoyable read, is the open dishing on fellow flight attendents and other crew, as well as the passangers.  And there is very seldom a whif that Mr. Hester does not like his work, or the public....just perhaps some of their more outrageous stunts.  Interspercing  memories with actual press clippings, this book is kept going at a lively pace, and does not fall into a harange of the failings of the great unwashed who fly.  Along with the outrageous,(dueling girlfriends  mid air) the obnoxious (dirty diapers being handed to the person serving you a meal)and an occasional dead body, come tales that have to be read to be believed.  A funny summer read, especially if you are flying.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R1UF05KBDJNYT9	046504493X	269622949	Mental Hospital	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A glimpse into mental health's past	The Mental Hospital has been used as a text in the past to explore the administration and day to day running of a big mental hospital.  Written by Alfred Stanton, who ran the McLean Hospital for many years , it is an insiders look at what it took to keep such an institution going.  It also provides a glimpse of treatments and therapies long out of favor.  While it is a somewhat dry read, the authors seem determined to impart every shred of knowledge they may have,it gives a glimpse of how the staff of a large hospital were viewed, and the somewhat elevated position those who ran such a facility were prone to adopting.  Many of the treatments and ideas expressed have long gone out of favor, and some of the ideas presented would never be given consideration today.  The basic premise , the care and treatment of the mentally ill,and how to present that on a large scale, is still a timely topic and it is by studying such a text that we are able to see the evolution of the mental health care we use today.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R3LAV7TQS2E0GA	1891620754	963615499	Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A brief look at psychiatry and society	Alex Beam's book about the McLean Hospital is more than just a history of a well known mental hospital  It also manages to give a glimpse into the changes in psychiatric care, the various treatments that have gained and lost favor, the personalities that have shaped the institution and a glimpse of some of the people who have sought refuge and treatment within its walls.  From the early 1800's, when an escaping patient was referred to as having \\"eloped\\" to the 1960's when many families turned to the hospital to guide them with their rebellious youth, McLean has been the caregiver to a wide range of personalities.  Well-known writers were hospitalized there ( at one time causing a need to have been cared for at McLean to be considered a poet).  Ray Charles spent his \\"rehabilitation \\" following a drug bust at McLean as well as other musicians including the Taylor family.  \\"Gracefully Insane\\" is not just a psychiatric tale, it is a look at the changes in society, especially the upper crust (a big part of the McLean clentele).  Just as the treatments and schools of thought fall in and out of favor, the hospital and those who administer its care seem to change constantly.  Just the bare bones telling of what is involved in the day to day of such an institution can make facinatiing reading, and the added human element adds that much more.  It gives a brief look into the reasons we need such a place and the people who live and work within its walls.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R1YN8DHVOR80MM	0786890118	165646841	Around the World in a Bad Mood!: Confessions of a Flight Attendant	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A bit too glib and pat	There may be a bit of the 70's still within me, when I longed to be a stewardess....when Braniff ruled the skies with wildly painted planes and the prettiest stewardesses.  As I read Rene Foss's brief recounting about her roots in air travel, her mom had also been a flight attendent...I was hopeful to not only have the witty insight of what Rene faced, but even a little bit of reminiscing from her mother.  This was not to be.  This book details the trouble and turmoil that a flight attendent todat faces, but there seems to be little enjoyment for the job.  Even worse, she does not seem to care for the job or any of the people she comes into contact with, other employees or the flying public. After awhile, it becomes as grating as a teething  baby on a nonstop cross country flight.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R1JCJVF4F5DJAP	1573222089	154712783	Satellite Sisters' UnCommon Senses	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Finding "your " people	I have been listening to the Satellite Sisters on NPR  for awhile, and snatched this book off the shelf when I saw it.  I was not disappointed.  Within the pages are the bit and pieces of real life i have come to enjoy on a weekly basis as I listen to these five sisters talk about life, and their challenges and joys.  Each of the five sisters are given plenty of space in the book (something that doesn't always happen on air) and a bit of family history is expalined. The topics covered are varied and range from the silly to the life changing.  There is a sense that you have been welcomed into  a facinating conversation.  Most importantly, there is a continuing sense of loyalty, and friendship, the same feeling that keeps listeners coming back each week.  Now don't think these women are namby pamby, no, each has a distinct and well expressed outlook on life and their particular place in the scheme of things.  Each is well spoken and not afraid to express an opinion. But with that also comes a sense of real love and appreciation, and a recognition that each person's individuality is to be appreciated (OK, each can tease, but are quick to circle the wagon if a threat is percieved).  This book manages to capture the genuine like each sister has for each other and the shared sense of community.  It also encougaes the reader to seek the same, and not necessarily within family.  It was a real lift to read.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R3GMFE627FE17U	0446530077	765138691	Find Me	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Startling insight to the &quot;Queen of Nice&quot;	At first,I was dismayed to see Rosie O'Donnell enter the ranks of 'celebrity autobiographies'.  As a long time fan of the commediane I was courious to read more about the beginnings she briefly alludes to from time to time.  The &quot;dream come true&quot; story of her life seemed to be the stuff of great reading, but I had no idea.  Ro, as she tells the reader she is usually called, is very up front about the incident that is the common thread throughout this book.  It is facinating to read as she tries to unravel the troubled life of a stranger, and  she intertwines the pathos of her own childhood  within the story.  She is very frank, and very revealing, without going on and on.  She talks openly about the loss of her mother, the loss of her father(although he is still alive) the people who came into her life and carried her throughout those sad and lonely years, the search for self.  It was a priveledged glimpse into the life of someone I have in my home on a regular basis, and makes no apology for the life she lives. She is loyal and treats all that she includes in her life, the same, whether they be fameous, or just beloved.  She seems just as I thought, a gifted commediane,who has an enormous capacity for giving, and honesty, who has continued on despite difficulties, and who seems to always hang on to her belief that there is good and joy  to be found.  I was not disappointed.	2002-05-10
US	50442542	R24PMKCIJEI038	0380978636	338655212	Don't You Know There's a War On?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A glimpse into a boy's life	Howie Crisper has a few things on his mind.  He needs to pass his weekly math test, he worries about his dad away in World War II, and the principal of his school in Brooklyn may be a Nazi spy.  All those take a back seat when he stumbles upon the news that the principal has plans to fire his teacher, Miss Gossim.  Howie is determined to get to the bottom of the whole mess, and save his favorite teacher.  Set in Brooklyn in the midst of the second world war, \\"Don't You Know There's a War On?\\" captures a time of great hope and idealism.  Howie is a regular fifth grader, who fights with his sister and hates to see his mother cry.  He finds himself tryong to help a favorite teacher and also deal with changing circumstances.  Avi keeps the tone of the book faithful to the age of the main character and the times.  Howie is able to face some of his boggest fears and finds he does have the ability to help, and at the book'd end we find him at the war's end remembering that favorite teacher and the improbable role he played in her life.  A real treat.	2002-02-17
US	50442542	R49N7BQJEK3FD	0141303522	88917561	A Long Way From Chicago: A Novel in Stories (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Everyone should have a Grandma Dowdel	A series of stories detailing the yearly visits of a young boy to his grandmother's farm in rural Illinois, Joey comes to look forward to leaving Chicago and visiting Grandma Dowdel.  Grandma is  not your 'cookies and milk' type of grandmother, she is an acquaintance of the town moonshiner and the witch in the woods. Not one to be beholden to anyone, Grandma is the defender of the little guy, from her supposed worst enemy, to the town drunk.  No one gets the best of her, including the bank, a real threat to small farmers in the 1930's. Joey is her sidekick, half afraid of what will happen, but keeping his eyes wide open and all bets on Grandma to come out on top. Infused with real humor and wit, and more then a smidge of a tall tale, A Long Way From Chicago is alot like sitting around the family dinner table and recounting stories of days remembered, stories that seem to get better with each telling.  This is a real treasure of a book and made me a Richard Peck fan.	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R15XD0X4JO5665	0060197749	832649991	Venus Envy: A Sensational Season Inside the Women's Tennis Tour	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Forget your afternoon soap...	L Jon Wertheim has open the locker room door (so to speak) and allowed readers to see the world of professional women's tennis.  The big names are all in here, along with their agents, entourages, coaches families, and fans.  What quickly emerges is a portrait of gifted and skilled athletes competing with not only each other, but with competing venues, demands on their time, bodies not allowed to completely heal from injury, and obsessed amily and friends.  Players seem to be isolated from the realities of  life, catered to, allowed to behave without restraint or consequences.  Even more amusing (and sad)are the family members who cling to the athlete's coattails, determined to milk every last bit of cash of these often young women. There are several horror stories of abuse by fathers, drunken tirades, and careers held hostage by the lost dreams of failed careers of parents.  The most compelling portion of the book is the story of Monica Seles, and her continuing struggle to return to the joy she experienced playing prior to the knife attack that almost ended her career and life.  A real show.	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R34BWKNG8YTMEJ	0312287828	234720266	The Spy Who Stayed Out in the Cold: The Secret Life of FBI Double Agent Robert Hanssen	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Creepy, creepy	Much like the nerdy guy in science lab who made your skin crawl, the sight of Robert Hanssen is a creepy sight.  Adrian Havill briefly describes the life of the man described as the most destructive known double agent in the US's history.  What makes this spy so sinister is his ability to blend into the everyday, perhaps a bit odd, but no odder than your Uncle Larry.....What emerges is a portrait of a man so convinced he had  (or may still have) the inside track on what is RIGHT...and the true way, spying for the Russians because he felt he was superior in his knowledge and value system.  There are times when I felt the author is over his head, and when the story is just too weird.  Hanssen's involvement with tryong to &quot;save&quot; the souls of exotic dancers would be amusing if you didn't have the thought of a devoted wife and family in the back of your mind.  Because Hanssen is not saying much this book leaves much untold, and much unexplained.  It did reveal more of the scope of the betrayal and damage done by this man.....an interesting book, but left me wishing I could know more.	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R2MLDIOTSMQFBV	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Laugh out loud!  A jolly good read	Rebecca Bloomwood has all the things a university graduate should have, a job, a flat (ok she shares it) and debt.  Not just a little debt, Rebecca, or Bex as her friends call her, has a seemingly evergrowing overdraft on all her credit cards and store accounts.  The calls and letters from her crediters keep getting dodged with ever more clever excuses, and Rebecca discovers it takes more and more retail therapy to help her out of her \\"Is that all ther is?\\" funks. When the letters take on a more persistant tone, and Rebecca's friend takes a job in finance with real pay, Rebecca looks at her job as a writer with \\"Successful Savings\\" magazine and decides to make some changes.  In hopes of making some extra money she send away for some make at home crafts to gbring in extra money, only to find it a disaster.  Even her lists on her good intentioned money saving ideas make you smile.  The weekend trip to the Victoria and Albert Museum (museums are supposed cost free) as a cheap way to have fun, is redeemed by Rebecca's discovery of the museum gift shop and her estatic discription of getting her Christmas shopping done.  Unfortunately, the more Rebecca tries to save, it seems the more she spends, and she is overwhelmed by the mounting debt.  Facing financial disaster she keeps on plugging along, with often hialrious results.<br />  What sets this apart from all the recent British 'singleton' imports is the likability of the heroine.  Not only is Rebecca just like almost anyone we might know ourselves, she is just trying to do her best.  Not obsessed with sex, or weight (although Bridget Jones did those brillantly) she is Everywoman trying to make ends meet.  And when her efforts catch the eye of  Luke Brandon, the owner of a PR firm that often comes in contact with Successful Savings magazine, she is as flustered and disbelieving as any one of us might be.  Sophie Kinsella has managed to capture a fresh take on what has become a formulatic market.  This book is a sheer delight!elight!	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R2XU8U6QFHZPMJ	0670894605	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Absolutely charming, this will enchant you and transport you	Fleeing an unloving home, Lily is headed to Tiburon, S.C., drawn by the image of a black Virgin Mary found among her late mother's belongings.  With her is Rosaleen, the black housekeeper who has provided what love and stability has been unavailable from her abusive father T.Ray.  Rosaleen is fleeing an arrest and beating which occur on the dawn of the signing of the Civil Rights Act.  An unlikely jailbreak orchestrated by Lily send these two on a road trip to Tiburon, searching for some kind of home and the healing of a deeply wounded heart.<br />  The two make it to Tiburon and find a safe haven with the Calander sisters, August, June, and May Boatwright, middle-aged black sisters who ironically own and operate Black Madonna Honey.  They offer Lily and Rosaleen work and a place to stay and to sort out all the turmoil in their lives.  Lily  is plagued with images of her long dead mother, the flashes of her last day of life and her part in her mother's death, as well as trying to find a loveable part of herself.  The sisters are not completely in agreement about giving refuge to a 14 year old white runaway (Lily tells them she is an orphan on her way to stay with an aunt). As Lily assumes responsibilities on the honey farm she also begins to seek and find the part in herself that she feared she did not have, that made her unloveable, she seeks the \\"mother\\" that is inside.  Sadly, life continues to bring the cycle of loss and renewal, and a great loss forces Lily to look at the inequality in the differences between the treatment of blacks and whites.  She also confronts the father she fled and the loss of her mother and her part in that day.  And in that healing time August;the queen bee,who has provided Lily with safe refuge all these months and has not forced her to disclose her secrets, reveals the circle that brought Lily to Tiburon, as it brought another lost young woman years ago. A tale of love and forgiveness and redemption and renewal.  We truly do find our homes with the people we love , not always the people we were first born to.  This is a first time novel that I could not put down.  It has such a clarity of writing and heart tugging imagery that I was transfixed and found I was unwilling to see it come to an end.  A real gem that joins the women beekeepers that have made a home in my heart...like the beekeeper in Fried Green Tomatoes.r homes with the people we love , not always the people we were first born to.  This is a first time novel that I could not put down.  It has such a clarity of writing and heart tugging imagery that I was transfixed and found I was unwilling to see it come to an end.  A real gem that joins the women beekeepers that have made a home in my heart...like the beekeeper in Fried Green Tomatoes.	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R3ICCQFDKF2KJP	0803725167	788467501	Fair Weather	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The best I've read in a long time	When Buster and Rosie go with Grandad to visit Aunt Eurtepe in Chicago they know they are going to see a whole new world.  After all, the World's fair is there, and Aunt Eurtepe is determined to expose her sister's childern to some culture.  After all, she is the widow of a wealthy man, and on the fringes of society.  The trip to Chicago is excitement enough, and the new world Buster and Rosie see is more than they could ever imagine.  Aunt Eurtepe is not what they expected, she seems to be virtually a prisioner to her mourning and social aspirations, not to mention her ill tempered and incompetent house staff.  Buster and Rosie set about to help out and in the process turn things upside down.  And the fair, the Fair!  There are acres and acres of food and exhibits and games of chance and things not to be inagined.  Grandpa even lets them catch a glimpse of the notorious Little Egypt and her dance of the seven veils.  For all their good intentions, things just seem to get mixed up, and it looks as if Buster and Rosie will have to return to the farm a disgrace.  But Grandpa and his dog ,and a chance encounter with Buffalo Bill Cody may change things forever.  A wonderful story that captures the flavor of the time and combines real facts with a wonderful family storyline.  A book to read over and over again.	2002-02-16
US	50442542	R1FGBZ5LKNUC9I	1560252758	985681969	The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld	Books	3	2	5	N	N	a glimpse of the floris writing style of the 20's	Long regarded as a cult favorite The Gangs of New York is soon to be made into  a movie. This book is a long ago chronicle of the rise of native born gangs that were the products of the poverty and ignorance of the slums of New York in the late 1880's and early 1900's.  Some unbelievable characters are put to paper, both male and female. The is also a unforgiving look into the brutality and unforgiving nature if crime during the times. Along withthte crime was the graft and the police.  A real eye opener. A slice of long ago New York , a bit of a challange to read due to the over the top florrid writing, but enjoyable bit of New York history.	2002-01-14
US	50442542	R7S1RB0LYE3XI	0880294302	755279753	French Quarter: An Informal History of the New Orleans Underworld	Books	3	24	28	N	N	A daring book of its day	Herbert Asbury must have been the daring writer of his day, daring to approach topics such as the red light district of New Orleans and the flesh trade in books that have retained a cult following to this day.  In somewhat florrid prose, he manages to present a fairly accurate history of the French Quarter, its denizens, and chatacters, includong voodoo queens and madams and the social climates that shaped it. It portrays the politics and characters, the scoundrals and the thiefs. The book is as much a part of the era in which it was written, although New Orleans is a bit removed from the social climes of the rest of the country.  It is a facinating portrait of a n era and a place that is a delight to visit for a time.	2002-01-14
US	50442542	R173Z4RZN7IQIJ	1573457922	903349348	Secret Santa	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pure magic....the best of Christmas	It is getting close to Christmas and Tom Van Sloaten is getting discouraged.  His father has not been getting work.  As a matter of fact, his father's health seems to be getting worse, and with the country in the midst of the the depression, it looks like a grim holiday season.  Of course his younger sister who also goes to the same high school seems unaware of the strain on the family, she is only aware of her own social agenda.  And the younger brothers and sisters are looking forward to Sants's visit.  In this bittersweet Christmas story Anne Osborn Poelman weaves a Christmas story for all ages.  Tom struggles with the desires of his heart and the expectations of those around him and looks for the true meaning of Christmas.  Others around him also are looking for their own meanings of Christmas.  This is a tender story that does not dissappoint and does not strike a single false note. This is based on an experience from the author's family's history.  A delightful story that will be enjoyed  over and over.	2002-01-14
US	50442542	R3Q3Y9YDBF3I0I	0743223489	374320479	It Looks Like a President Only Smaller: Trailing Campaign 2000	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A baked potato for us all!	It Looks Like a President is a humerous look at the 2000 presidental race beginning with the New Hampshire primaries.  Having mercifully been able to block much of that from my memory, I found Joel AChenbach's witty play by play of the shenenagians much more informative then I remember the media's reporting at the time to have been.  This book is worth the read just to read Al Gore's impassioned call to open all the foil reserves so every American can have a baked potato with all the trimmimgs!  A wickedly funny look at a time that needs to be remembered so its follies will not be repeated.  And a reminder that we need to be looking seriously at limiting campaining times....put limits on how EARLY a campain can start.	2001-12-01
US	50442542	R22XJV515S2NRF	0743411323	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A surprisingly strong and tender story	After the deluge of popular acclaim for Open House which was an Oprah Book (and not one of Berg's best efforts) I was leery about another book.  In &quot;never Change&quot; Berg returns to familiar ground, characters who are in the midst of everyday life, not especially unhappy, but somehow sensing something could be better.  Myra Lipinsky is still in her old hometown where she was a prickley high school outsider.  Now she is a nurse, still single, living a somewhat successful life, yet there is that something.  The call comes to provide care for Chip, the golden boy of her high school years, and she is forced to confront the walls she has erected all along.  Elizabeth Berg is deft in her drawing of everyday people, dealing with ordinary life.  There is compassion and dignity in their composition, and a great deal of humanity and humor.  The theme that we are all intertwined and none really are able to stand as alone as we want to believe is subtlely told and the resolution of the grace and joy that can come with a good death is heartwrenching.  This is Elizabeth Berg's best, not to be missed.	2001-12-01
US	50442542	R125JD2O58LFLE	0914875272	554873692	Edge of Heaven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A glimpse of heaven in everyday life	Lucy Davenport's life has never been easy since the death of her mother. She and her father live in the foothills of the Georgia mountains and the sudden visit of Holman Carpenter is a welcomed diversion, until Lucy realizes she is bartered to be Holmans' wife.  Actually, the new Mrs. Carpenter is to take over the care of the 13 Carpenter children...some who don't want a new mother.  Uncertain of her abilities to manage such a brood, and with her new husband leaving her alone with the children while he tends to work, Lucy faces a whole new life in North Carolina.  Eva McCall has based this first novel on the stories she heard of her own grandmother's experiences in the late 1890's.  The balance of life was often challenged by illness, ignorance, poverty and the lawlessness that could exist.  As Lucy comes to know the children she is to call her own (if she chooses to stay) she learns to appreciate the upbringing she had with her parents and discover her own strengths.  Some may say it does not take a realistic look at the harsh times and the realities, it is a well told story of pioneer life.  Captured is the compelling story of family loyalty and triumph over seemingly insurmountable odds.  I hope this story continues.	2001-10-28
US	50442542	R1ML2168ZNEAWC	0914875272	554873692	Edge of Heaven	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A glimpse of heaven in everyday life	Lucy Davenport's life has never been easy since the death of her mother. She and her father live in the foothills of the Georgia mountains and the sudden visit of Holman Carpenter is a welcomed diversion, until Lucy realizes she is bartered to be Holmans' wife.  Actually, the new Mrs. Carpenter is to take over the care of the 13 Carpenter children...some who don't want a new mother.  Uncertain of her abilities to manage such a brood, and with her new husband leaving her alone with the children while he tends to work, Lucy faces a whole new life in North Carolina.  Eva McCall has based this first novel on the stories she heard of her own grandmother's experiences in the late 1890's.  The balance of life was often challenged by illness, ignorance, poverty and the lawlessness that could exist.  As Lucy comes to know the children she is to call her own (if she chooses to stay) she learns to appreciate the upbringing she had with her parents and discover her own strengths.  Some may say it does not take a realistic look at the harsh times and the realities, it is a well told story of pioneer life.  Captured is the compelling story of family loyalty and triumph over seemingly insurmountable odds.  I hope this story continues.	2001-10-28
US	50442542	RXK2RBYWK6ROA	0970549628	695834801	Letters for Emily	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A surprising homegrown delight	I sometimes hesitate to read books written by local authors. With the success of &quot;The Christmas Box&quot;, there has been a surge of locally published writers...sometimes,not all of them good. Camron Steve Wright's &quot;Letters for Emily&quot; has been on the top of my 'to be read ' pile for awhile and I finally picked it up this week. The story of a couple facing divorce as well as deciding what to do with an aging father,Wright has intertwined these two themes along with an another,older story based from the father's marriage and the mysterious journals and letters his family discovers. The letters are addressed to his granddaughter, Emily. Each letter adresses an ageless theme such as hope, loss, anger, pride, forgiveness and regret. As the old man writes about each of these, he speaks to his children through his letters as well as poems he wrote years ago, poems his children had no idea he had ever crafted. Each poem is the key to a long ago piece of their family history and unlocks the secret of their past and the sadness their father has carried all these years.  As they begin to understand the man that was their father, they begin to understand themselves. &quot;Letters to Emily&quot; is not a cloyingly sweet story with a ready made ending. The characters are multifaceted and not manipulated by expectations. Camron Steve Wright has managed to craft a tender, yet strong story of the true power of forgivenes and reconcillation and hope. A wonderful first effort. I hope there are many more to follow.	2001-09-22
US	50442542	R1M4Z9D21LO93N	0971399301	827879331	The Wise Man in the Checkered Shirt	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The best Christmas gifts are opened all year long	&quot;The Wise Man in the Checkered Shirt&quot; was sent to me in June as a gift, after I had  been discharged from the hospital, and a Christmas book was not exactly my idea of a good read. I picked it up because it was short, and was almost immediately captivated my the unlikely tale of a department store Santa who falls under the spell of two seemingly homeless girls.<br />Jerome may look the part of Santa, he has been the premire Santa at the Mall for years, and he takes great pride in his looks and abilities. Pride is the keyword, Jerome is proud of his perfect life, to the point of self centeredness, obnoxiousness and shutting out those closest to him. He has no need for people unless they can benefit him, and finds the neighborhood residents and church particularly annoying. His need to be the center of attention, to know and control everything takes him on a rollercoaster ride when he crosses paths with sisters Harley and Boo. He spies the oldest sister, Harley stealing coins from the mall fountain and is determined to find out where they live. The two girls live with their father who is recovering from an accident and have their own ideas of what they need to get done before Christmas. Extremely protective of her young sister Boo (Marci), Harley is also a caregiver of sorts for her disabled father as well. Though their living quarters would never meet with Jerome's approval they have an abundance of love and belief in the goodness of their neighbors. As they go about their days, the people they come in contact with are also captivated by their bright spirits and their open hearts, and even help them in some of their pursuits, such as divesting the fountain of its coins. Each day is filled with anticipation of the approaching holidays, until an unseen accident threatens their well-being. The harder Jerome tries to find out about the girls the more elusive they become and the more out of control his well ordered life becomes, leaving him to question the very things he had once valued, and to turn to a new source of strength, the neighborhood church and the people the before seemed to just annoy and clutter his well ordered life. He finds himself doing things he never would have done before, with some very unpredictable and hilarious results. A very different Christmas story with a timeless message of hope and acceptance, and a tender twist at the end that really caught me by surprise, bringing tears to my eyes. This story captures the essense of forgiveness and the hope we all have at Christmas, that we can mend fences and that we can find our way home. A wonderful, wonderful Christmas story.  A wonderful read any time of the year.ings he had once valued, and to turn to a new source of strength, the neighborhood church and the people the before seemed to just annoy and clutter his well ordered life. He finds himself doing things he never would have done before, with some very unpredictable and hilarious results. A very different Christmas story with a timeless message of hope and acceptance, and a tender twist at the end that really caught me by surprise, bringing tears to my eyes. This story captures the essense of forgiveness and the hope we all have at Christmas, that we can mend fences and that we can find our way home. A wonderful, wonderful Christmas story.  A wonderful read any time of the year.	2001-09-22
US	50442542	RIUXTA0OMH5SX	0394452623	743649585	I Can't Wait Until Tomorrow ... 'Cause I Get Better-Looking Every Day	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Broadway Joe leaves today's sports biographies in the dust	Anyone used to reading the celebrity/athlete written books that clog up the best seller lists today cannot appreciate the stir that Joe Namath's book creathed when it was first published.  Joe Namath was a sports figure like no other, flamboyant, handsome, quick with a comeback, a girl on each arm, loved by women of all ages, admired by men, and quick to give credit to those who helped him to fame...coaches, his mother and family, men of the church.  Joe never took life too seriously, but was not one to treat those things in life that were important and good with disdain or contempt.  This book may seem dated to those who have been weaned on the tell all style of Dennis Rodman or anyone from the WWF.  It is a true rags to riches story of a young man who is encouraged to develop his athletic talent and is mentored by some of the greatest talents in football.  It features the all time greatest Super Bowl victory of all time, Super Bowl III with the pregame boast of a youthful quaterback.  The excesses of the time, which were going to destroy football, seem so tame, compared with the wretched excesses of today.  I Can't Wait Until Tomorrow is my all time favorite sports biography because it captures the rolicking personality of its writer and the time .	2001-08-17
US	50442542	R390NJ8T5OLHNQ	0970874707	392052902	Phoenix Rising: Golden Keys to Unlock Your Depression	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A good book to have on hand	Pheonix Rising,12 Golden Keys to Unlock Your Depression is quick to inform the reader a very basic truth about depression....The patient is the key to their own recovery.  If you are a partner seeking a key to helping a loved one with their depression this is not what you want to hear, if you are in the middle of the morass of depression and the self-defeating behaviors this is one more thing you have to deal with.  Anthony Schwarz and his son Mikel have crafted a well written book that is focused on helping a person survive the depression.  It is humane and kind.  Often books on depression and recovery get caught up in jargon and the current trend in mental.  Mt Schwarz is focused on a course of trying to stay in touch with life.  He provides appendixes with inventory lists, how to approach dream journals, journal writing,  looking for a therapist that meets your specific needs, simple approaches that may be overlooked that really provide sustanance and comfort in the trying time of depression.  There are many approaches suggested, but it is the suggestion that we remember that we seek to strengthen our physical selves through eating better and gentle exercise that ring most true.  And Mr. Schwarz also tells of reconciling his past religious upbringing with a new spiritual awakening to aid in his quest for peace of mind.  This is a very up front book that blends medical and holistic and spiritual approaches.  It encourages the patient to take responsibility and to seek joy.  Some may be put off by the first person approach of the book.  I found it to be validating, It made the therapies real.  As with any self-help book it is a given that all the suggestions may not work for the reader.  Mr. Schwarz is very upfront with his acknowledgement that the reader remember that he does not have all the answers, that he is simply telling his story and providing a guide, and  that he wants other others to realize that they are not alone in their hard times.  He encourages others to keep seeking.  He tells of his searches for help and how he was able to blend his life experiences to aid in his recovery.  I found this to be an extraordinarily brave book.  I have already loaned my copy to a friend who I know will find comfort in the story.  I know I did.others to keep seeking.  He tells of his searches for help and how he was able to blend his life experiences to aid in his recovery.  I found this to be an extraordinarily brave book.  I have already loaned my copy to a friend who I know will find comfort in the story.  I know I did.	2001-07-29
US	50442542	R1EEB796QZFTRV	084233498X	290856073	Leota's Garden	Books	4	65	68	N	N	Compelling tale of reconcillation and forgiveness	Leota Reinhardt only has to look out her window to see how much her life has changed.  Now 84 years old, her once comfortable little house with its abundant garden shows the effects of years of neglect, just as Leota shows the effect of years of yeaars of strained contact with her daughter and son.  She is not prepared for the changes that will come into her life, a granddaughter who is dertermined to follow the promptings of the Spirit, a young college student, motivated by getting a grade, touched by goodness and Leota's own indominatable spirit.  Francine Rivers is well known in among Christian readers (this is the first of her books I have read) and it can be a bit disconcerting to read the characters inner dialogue with a Higher Power.  The characters are well developed and evolve, not change magicly...which is good.  I was worried they would all see the light and the book would end.  I liked many of these characters too much to be cheated that way.  I hesitated to pick this up, but I am glad I did.	2001-06-26
US	50442542	RA6RN1DBIDS2F	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Bridget Jones, she ain't	Following a girl's night out visit to a fortune teller, Lucy Sullivan finds her life is just as harried as ever.  She can't do anything to please her mother, her workmates are constantly fighting or moping, her flatmates looking for Mr. Right, the right guy comes along, but there is always a flaw.  She is supposed to be finding the love of her life, but the most consistant man is her friend Daniel,her brothers, and her seldom sober father.  As a matter of fact, the men she is attracted to resemble good old dad....most comfortable with a drink in hand.  Lucy has to untangle the complicated give and take of male-female relationships and find her fortune on her own.  This book could do with about 100 less pages and with Lucy not being so dense.  It is one thing when our heroine is duped by a man who appears to be &quot;Mr. Right&quot; and then slowly reveals his flaws.  Many of the men in this book are stinkers from the start, boorishly written and completely unappealing.	2001-06-05
US	50442542	R297WAP41AU1V8	0380796104	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Bridget Jones, she ain't	Following a girl's night out visit to a fortune teller, Lucy Sullivan finds her life is just as harried as ever.  She can't do anything to please her mother, her workmates are constantly fighting or moping, her flatmates looking for Mr. Right, the right guy comes along, but there is always a flaw.  She is supposed to be finding the love of her life, but the most consistant man is her friend Daniel,her brothers, and her seldom sober father.  As a matter of fact, the men she is attracted to resemble good old dad....most comfortable with a drink in hand.  Lucy has to untangle the complicated give and take of male-female relationships and find her fortune on her own.  This book could do with about 100 less pages and with Lucy not being so dense.  It is one thing when our heroine is duped by a man who appears to be &quot;Mr. Right&quot; and then slowly reveals his flaws.  Many of the men in this book are stinkers from the start, boorishly written and completely unappealing.	2001-06-05
US	50442542	R2FNYFNMJDMAKC	0312275552	869576828	The Gardens of Covington: A Novel (Ladies of Covington)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The ladies of Covington return, better than ever	The Gardens of Covington finds the ladies back in fine form.  Hannah is busy with the nursery and worriedly looks to the threat of development that looms over the valley.  Amelia is as self-absorbed as ever, busy with her photography. (one wonderful thing about this book is the characters remain the same....no rapid character changes). Grace is busy with the tearoom her friend,  Bob, and the youngster, Tyler who had captured her heart.  This book once again captures the nuances, the joys and the strains of small town life.  The three women are distinct, and there is the give and take of family life...even though the three aren't a conventional family.  Familiar themes are explored, the risks taken when you grow beyond your boundries, the tug of family, the quest for love, recovering from betrayal and leaning on friends to recover.  There are also some new people to meet and new challanges to attack. This book was a delight, I was so glad to have the ladies back and true to form.  A wonderful summer read.	2001-06-02
US	50442542	R24LAEQ7W7ZSVE	0967278813	465354092	The Kids are Gone, The Dog is Depressed & Mom's on the Loose	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Laughing with recognition	The Kids are Gone, The Dog's Depressed and Mom's on the Loose is a slender book of Shelley Fraser Mickle's musings on the changes in life brought on by children growing up and leaving home.  She doesn't dwell on the loss, rather she casts a bemused eye on the household left behind.  There is also a decidedly Southern leaning in these stories, detailing a slower pace of life, and the southern obsession with &quot;who do you belong to?&quot;..She returns to the days of carpools and I could just see my mother at the wheel of her station wagon....ready to go.  She writes of the ties we forge and the tests they undergo, the memories that an &quot;empty&quot; house evokes.  A wonderful book to share with someone who may be entering this phase.	2001-05-30
US	50442542	RXFHJVCH2FSSQ	185371531X	217970047	Dear Maeve	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Maeve at her best	Dear Maeve is a compilation of some Maeve Binchy's columns from the Irish Times.  Although she wasn't an advice column, she often was asked to field questions facing her readers, and to give her two cents worth.  With the usual straightforwardness and gentle hunor, she addresses the everyday struggles that face her readers.  Whether deciding how much is proper to spend on a baptism or confirmation celebration, how to deal with a difficult family member or facing the challanges of relationships, Maeve pulls no punches.  This book captures what makes Binchy a favorite of readers everywhere.  She does not seem to be changed by the fame, or the money.  She remains the good friend that you would go to to chat about a problem, or to share a drink.  This is a hard book to find, I got the copy I read through a friend who had recently been to the UK.  If you can find a copy, don't pass up the chance to read it.	2001-05-30
US	50442542	RGOOFFEAEXVUG	0767904133	8015663	Close to Shore: A True Story of Terror in An Age of Innocence	Books	2	12	17	N	N	How can something so compelling be so dull?	&quot;Close to Shore&quot; is the second book released this spring detailing the series of shark attacks along the New Jersey shore in 1916. This book differs with its &quot;Jaws-like&quot; style of narration, the telling of the tale from the shark's point of view(&quot;by the time the shark discovered its mistake, it found it difficult to to escape&quot;) and senses. Entertwined in the narrative are descriptions of life in 1916 and very brief glimpses into the major players in this story.  This book just skims the story. There is so much more that could be told about the people, the attacks, and the response to the attacks. The feeling I had when I closed this book this book was &quot;what was all the fuss about?&quot;.I knew there had to be so much more to this story.  Add the sketchiness of the accounting, the shark narrative style(which slows down an already lumbering story), the tagents that the author takes off on, and the lack of illustrations or photos and you get a lackluster shark story. If you have to choose between the two, read &quot;Twleve Days of Terror&quot;.	2001-05-27
US	50442542	R2O3WMR3K84EM5	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Running to try to catch up	Barbara Ehrenreich &quot;leaves behind&quot; her comfortable home, steady income and sets out to see if one can survive on today's working wages.  The only allowences, she has startup money(first and last months' rent) and a car to use.  Very quickly she discovers that life's basic needs cannot be met on minimum wage.  Housing is unavailable and when available, unaffordable.  Medical insurance (when available) is expensive, and food takes a huge chunk out of the weekly pay.  Just to barely survive, it is almost a necessity to work two jobs.  Ehrenreich works in three different areas of the country, three different types of jobs.  The common thread, the jobs were hard, physically demanding, mind numbing, and looked down upon.  Employers were able to administer &quot;personality profiles&quot;(usually given by other employees), demand drug testing (sometimes paid for by the applicant)and kept those they employed in a constant state of upheaval by second guessing every part of the job.  Any working person can identify with this book.  Managers spying on staff to prevent &quot;time theft&quot;, the sense you are somehow beholden to the employer, being asked to work overtime without compensation, and &quot;do as I say, not as I do&quot; management.  What makes this book unique, is it looks at the lowest segment of the working strata...and how impossible it is to survive on what multimillion corporations, politicians,  and stockholders deem a &quot;living wage&quot;.  Even with the backup the author had, she disovered that she was unable to afford housing, &quot;emergency&quot; food and shelter aid is hard to find (once found; the paperwork byzentine and availability spotty), and Ehrenreich finds herself just one step away from living in a shelter.  And she is working.  Hard!  A clear-eyed and honest look at the reality of the working poor.  Ehrenreich gives her coworkers a much deserved dignity and exposes the real impossibility of surviving on low wages and how wearing it is on the soul to be on the low end. if there is a weak point, it is she  felt &quot;above&quot; hercoworkers, although bosses get the most(and much deserved) scorn.  It is easy to talk about dressing &quot;poor&quot; or to dismiss the &quot;hairstyle of the poor&quot;(the ponytail) when you know you have a home and a well paying job to return to.it is on the soul to be on the low end. if there is a weak point, it is she  felt &quot;above&quot; hercoworkers, although bosses get the most(and much deserved) scorn.  It is easy to talk about dressing &quot;poor&quot; or to dismiss the &quot;hairstyle of the poor&quot;(the ponytail) when you know you have a home and a well paying job to return to.	2001-05-27
US	50442542	R2T347LA0NKFON	0849937809	202838072	The Blue Bottle Club	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Keep your eyes and heart-open....frienships endures	On the brink of the Depression, four young women place their innermost hopes on slips of paper, place them in a bottle and pledge to support each other's dreams.  Life, however, has a way of upsetting the most planned path, and each of these four young women find themselves on a path not anticipated.  Over 50 years later a young TV reporter reporting on the demolition of a once stately home, is handed the blue bottle by a construction worker.  Brenden Delaney begins to search for these women, to see if life has met their expectations and hopes. Her journey leads her to the discovery of each woman, a glimpse into their lives and the rekindling of a long ago friendship.  Brendon also has some soul searching of her own, and as she works to compile the story of the Blue Bottle Club.  This ia a wonderful novel of  friendship and relf realization.  Some may be put off by its distinctly Christain leanings, but will find that it does not surender to cliches.	2001-05-25
US	50442542	R21XSDGJ67O2M5	1559704934	419435894	The Women Who Wrote the War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A brave and resourceful group of women	&quot;The Women Who Wrote the War&quot; is a comprehensive compilation and listing of the contribution of women in the press in World War II.  From the first women to recognize the changes in Germany, the real threat of Hitler, and to sound the call of the rise of fanaticism, these women had to fight against fear, physical threats and censorship.  They also had to work their way around the bias against their sex....often entering dangerous areas with no support or credentials.  All arenas of the war were covered by women, from Germany, France and Britian, to the camps in the Far East and Russia.  These women were invaluable in providing an acounting of the horrors of war and the human toll it took.  They report on all fronts,and unflinchingly look at he horrors of war close up.  This book also details the struggle of these women to be accepted, to find their place in a male dominated career.  &quot;The Women Who Wrote the War&quot; is a fiting tribute to there trailblazers.	2001-05-25
US	50442542	R2UXEAJ2L95QFU	067943979X	2914631	The Lost Children of Wilder : The Epic Struggle to Change Foster Care	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Rescuing the lost, could it be done?	In 1973 the New York ACLU filed a lawsuit on behalf of 13 year old Shirley Wilder.  Young, unable to cope with an abusive home, Shirley is in the foster care system and in danger of getting lost. At age 14 she gives birth to a son, Lamont, and is forced to turn him over to the same system that has failed her so miserably.  What follows is a spellbinding (though long winded)account of the suit and the human faces behind it.  Shirley never raises her son, as she had hoped.  Lamont is sent spinning through foster care.  Seemigly safe with his first family, his life is soon to be upended by good intentioned, badly informed people.  This is a heartwrenching story of the cost in human terms of our country's inability to care for its children.  I think I was most astonished by the fact that these things happen in this day and age, how unwilling and unable the system is to care and protect the most vunerable.  There are no winners, just heartbreak and regret.  The lawsuit also takes on a life of its own, bogged down in incredible red tape, appeals, and legalese. The suit's final conclusion is an afterthought... If it makes you frustrated as on onlooker,you can imagine it must be a living hell to depend upon this system and try to navigate it.	2001-05-24
US	50442542	R2YG3SOM7EGGFS	0525946020	494562665	Grace	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A solid effort	&quot;Grace&quot; follows the lives of four households living on the same block in the small Texas town of Cold Springs during the final years of World WarII.  Grace Gillian, english teacher at the local high school, sparks passion for learning and exploration in her students.  She presence is unsettling for the town, married later, only to have her husband abandon her, head filled with dreams and impractical things.  This woman is a catalyst of sorts in the other households.  John Appleby, enlisting in the service after his wife's death, looks to her with confusion and longing.  Young Bobby Moore V, drawn by the passion Grace displays as his teacher, and her unselfconscious  beauty.  His home has currents of its own, his yankee mother snubbed( and not at all bothered)by local woman, befriends the family maid, struggles with the interference of family in her daughter's life.  Bobby is drawn to Dixie baldridge, a young beauty with a troubled family life.  Her father drinks and her mother is scarred by past trauma that has left her unable to cope.  The US is drawn into the war and local young men leave the comforting confines of Cold Springs, life is turned upside down. While this book seems to wander a bit,it is a wonderful book that captures the upheavel in small town life  that marked the mid 1940s.  The realization that change would impose itself upon life, no matter how careful one was. Each family must face its own and intertwined challenges,closing the doors on hurts and refinding love  and figuring out where they fit in Cold Springs	2001-05-24
US	50442542	R2BO66DMXJQGKO	0385313152	59756417	Blown Sideways Through Life: A Hilarious Tour de Resume	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A must have	Blown Sideways Through chronicles Claudia Shear's search for the true job, and the 64 jobs she had to enjoy/endure so far) before she she found the job (or career) that was right for her.  Brunch chef at Fire Island, nude model,proofreader, receptionist at an brothel; Shear always spins a good story, and amuses us with life's wierdness.  This is also a truthful look at the life many of us live. We have jobs, not careers, working where we can to make the money we need to live our lives. Shear makes no apology for the meandering work path she has chosen.  There is dignity and humor in her retelling of seemingly menial jobs (some of them were pretty horrid).  I think her rant of the observed rudeness of a donut store patron, and the pevelent attitude of &quot;looking down&quot; on service industry people is a must read for every person.  Funny, insightful and honest, this is a book that deserves a reprint.	2001-05-23
US	50442542	R21DB7G70WD5QG	0385499825	358484575	A Girl Named Zippy: Growing Up Small in Mooreland Indiana	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Reads like a novel, very entertaining	Haven Kimmel's account of growing up in the small town (pop 300)of Mooreland, Indiana,is a wonderful look at small town life.  Small and hair deprived, she is called Zippy by her father.  Quickwitted and imaginative, Haven recounts a pleasant life defined by school and church and a quirky, but supportive family.  The fued between Kimmel's father and the neighbor Mr. Reed over the family dogs is hysterical.  It is a world where every old lady could be a witch (until proven otherwise), you could still buy a fountain drink at the drug store, and you still believed that you could be bought from the gypsies. She remembers family,neighbors, friends and the expanding world of a child and paints it with a humerous and kind touch.  This is immensely readable and provoked many memories of my own growing up.	2001-05-23
US	50442542	RGWVVA5WEMUAU	158574297X	436615641	Twelve Days of Terror: A definitive Investigation of the 1916 New Jersey Shark Attacks	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Facinating...don't read this at the beach	The shark attacks off the New Jersey shore were doomed to fade into almost urban mythology.  Richard Fernicola has painstakingly researched the twelve days of horror that held a nation in its grip.  The first strike, July 1 was on an unsuspecting Charles Vansant, in which eyewitnesses report the agressor shark actually held on,and or followed its prey into the shallows.  Fernicola has gathered all the available accounts (since eyewitnesses were dead, he turned to family members, newspaper archives and books)and has pieced together an account of the mounting terror until July 12, the deadliest day (two killed and one maimed) and last reported killings.  This is an engrossing look into a time when not much was known about sharks and when newspapers were depended upon to deliver the news.  It also gives a detailed look into sharks and their history as man eaters.  The most interesting portion of the book, after the actual accounting of the people involved and the attacks themselves, is the medical renderings of each victim's wounds and an accounting of the actual cause of death.  This is an engrossing book, and it is well researched.  It is a time capsule of sorts, reopening the  time when there was belief that a mackeral had inflicted the wounds, that the Germans were attracting the sharks with some new secret gadget, when a day at the beach was a simple day at the beach.	2001-05-21
US	50442542	RR65OMLC6NX53	0670894699	639290747	The Florabama Ladies' Auxiliary & Sewing Circle	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A satisfying slice of life	The Florabama Ladies' Auxiliary and Sewing Circle by Lois Battle follows the lives of various women impacted by the closing of the Cherished Lady lingerie factory.  Bonnie Duke Cullman arrives in Florabama, Alabama leaving behind a failed marriage, children in college.  Her comfortable life of counrty clubs, stay at home mom, charity events, and being the daughter of &quot;the Duke&quot; all turned upside down, and she is off to her first real job, counseling &quot;displaced&quot; homemakers.She is going to be working out of Marion Hawkins Community College.  The women who have been displaced (or made redundent)are struggling with their own problems.  Hilly Pruitt has just bought a new car and she is also worried that her best friend Ruth Elkins is being taken advantage of by her wayward daughter, Roxie.  Ruth has her hands full with helping out with Roxie's kids, and cannot see how her coworker Celia Lusk sees a divine hand in all the hardship.  This is a tale of women coming together in times of hardship. The realization that they are all more alike than different, no matter social standing, background, education is the binding tie for these women. Battle is never patronizing and advoids the temptation to tie everything up in a neat happy package.  Written with a fine tuned ear for Southern dialogue and an evenhanded tone, the ladies of the Florabama are friends you will come to cherish.	2001-05-21
US	50442542	R4P0X61OFY0S9	067943108X	181047793	Meditations from a Movable Chair: Essays	Books	3	0	8	N	Y	Thought provoking	Many people are familiar with Andre Dubois's son and his book(an Oprah pick) The house of Sand and fog.  Andre Duboius has long been considered a master of the short story, and the eye that served him well at that craft is equally appreciated when turned inward.  DuBois was confined to a wheelchair when injured in an accident, and as a result, accepted the challenge to look inward.  In essays detailing his struggle with mortality, his failings, his life as a writer and the struggle to find the sacred in the everyday Mr. DuBois is honest and open.  At times, you may think the conclusions are a bit too pat or packaged, and yet, there is no doubt in regards to the sincerity.	2001-05-19
US	50442542	R3BKI0XVIWVFGM	0060198605	956707371	Hawk: Occupation: Skateboarder	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The evolution of skateboarding and the skater	Late in the 1980's I was flipping through the channels on my way to Nickeloden's Double Dare(to watch with my kids) when my eye was caught by athletes swooping and soaring on a halfpipe structure.  ESPN had just begun broadcasting the sport and along with Christian Hosoi and Mike McGill was a storklike young man, Tony Hawk.  My kids watched for a minute, but I was captivated.  Cut to 1999, and a much more mature Hawk has just completed the 900, the Holy Grail of skateboard tricks...in front of a crowd of over 20,000.  Of all the early stars of the sport, he is one of the few, if not the only to have continued to compete.  This is his story.  How a young, hyperenergetic child was able to catch the beginning of a sport and ride it through the many ups and downs, until retiring on his own terms.  This is also a great look into the life of a California boy in the 70's and 80's, supported by parents who indulged and supported his growing passion.  You meet a unforgettable cast of fellow skaters, get a bird's eye view of the evolution of skateboarding as a sport, and revenue maker.  Written in a scattered style of conversation with friends, this is full of stories and photos and bits of background that will delight the skateboard fan.	2001-05-16
US	50442542	R3T40AEKBOSHUF	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The little horse that could	I grew up reading horse books, anything written by Walter Farley , Margurite Henry and one of my all time favorites, &quot;Come On Seabiscuit&quot; by R. Moody.  &quot;Seabiscuit, An American Legend&quot; by Laura Hillebrand offers a story of group of men and an amazing horse.  These three men, Red Pollard, a not too successful jockey, Tom Smith, a loner with an unmatched touch with horses, and Charles Howard, a risk taker who was a self made man.  These three men shared a common belief in a stubby, bandy-legged, horse with no real grace or style.  Despite being the progeny of the great Man O'War, Seabiscuit had little promise as a race horse.  Only these three men recognized the potential, and the raw speed within the odd shaped package.  The horse became the talk of the western race scene.  Time after time, the little horse fought back from poor starts and injury to astonish racetrack spectators.  When challenged to race against the cream of the eastern race circut, Seabiscuit seemed to be hobbled by bad luck, scratched from almost every race he entered.  Even more cruel, the series of injuries to Red Pollard, the jockey are seemingly  unsurmountable.  This is not just a book about a horse, it is about the late 1930's.  This seemilgly undistinguished little horse managed to capture the hearts and the imagination of the public. This is a glimpse into the racing subculture, the grueling ordeal jockeys went through to make weight, the rivalries between stables and the east and west coast.  If this was a script for a movie, there would be accusations of melodrama, the continuing injuries and struggles and adversity.  At times this book is a bit overwritten but in truth, these personalities are larger than life and the horse is a true champion.	2001-05-16
US	50442542	R2OYGNE5SWD1L	0385500904	782854514	The Disastrous Mrs. Weldon: The Life, Loves and Lawsuits of a Legendary Victorian	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Disasterous and boring	The Disasterous Mrs. Weldon, The Lives, Loves, and Loves of a Legendary Victorian, follows the life of Georginia Thomas Weldon, an infamous lesser-known celebrity of the Victorian era.  Of course, to hear the story from her point of view, letters, and autobiography, you would think the world had revolved around her.  She used her feminine wiles and talents, so to speak, to advance herself in society. She moved from disasterous affair and situation to even more disasterous situation with no consideration to the havoc she left in her wake.  At one point, unable to deal with his wife any more, her husband petitioned to have her committed.  In a stroke of sheer luck, she was able to challange the standing law regarding marriage and property and claim a victory.  This book was sparked by the author reading the six volume autobiographical embellished explaination of her life penned by the real Mrs. Weldon.  Thank heavens this was a single volume.	2001-05-16
US	50442542	R1HKB61SG1VHYN	0385335377	224196833	Lone Eagle	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Doesn't soar, it sinks!	When you pick up a Danielle Steele book you pretty much know what lies ahead.  There's a girl, not just any girl, but one with something special.  And there's man, noy just any man, but a man who has hidden depths.  More likely than not, they have had a history of great attraction, and great misunderstanding, leaving them scarred and afraid to love.  Well, this book follows that formula, but badly.  When you meet Kate Jamison you admire her spunk, her independence.  And when Joe Allbright, the young protege of Charles Lindbergh, enters the picture, the story starts to move.  However these two characters are so annoying,and so selfish.  It is hard to really feel any pull towards their story.  It wears you out, repeating the same old patterns over and over and over ad nauseum. It covers about two decades, moving through WWII and the flying boom that follows. There are marriages and divorces, children, and heartbreak.  In the end, you don't care what these two main characters decide to do... you just want the book to end.	2001-05-11
US	50442542	R253YMB33YO56T	0688170315	929111041	Unholy Ghost: Writers on Depression	Books	5	72	81	N	N	Coping with the unholy ghost	Unholy Ghost is a compilation of various writers detailing their personal struggles with depression.  Some authors are well known, William Styron, Larry McMurtry, and A.Alvarez to name a few. Some see their depression as a catalyst for their creativity, some see it as a thief that threatens to rob them of theselves. Each writer details their recognition of being different, and the time lost.  All who contribute to this book(there are a few companion essays by family members detailing the effect their loved-one's depression had on them)have sufferd from depression.  Each writer has a very distinct voice when discussing their melencholia, some are scattered and frenetic, some detail the various pharmacological interventions, there are stories of suicide attempts and hospitalizations.  The continuing thread is the loss of hope and orientation.  Each writer describes the depression as a very real, physical and emotional being that threatenes to rob them of their lives and happiness.  You do not have to be a writer or suffer from depression to appreciate the raw honesty of these pieces.  The only problem I had was the constant theme of depression,(book on depression, too much depression, go figure)and the rawness of the tales.As a person who has suffered from chronic reoccuring depression the truth of these pieces resonated with me.  These people really have hurt and it is like poking an open wound to read these stories.<br /><br />Rereading the book almost 10 years later, I find the stories still resonate and the truths are still there.  I have changed my rating since the cloud of my own depression has lifted and I have a safer place from which to view.  ML	2001-05-10
US	50442542	RQXSLDHSC4NMJ	0452281725	497658924	The Quilter's Apprentice (Elm Creek Quilts Series #1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The beginnings of the Elm Creek Quilters	Matt and Sarah McClure travel to the small college town of Waterford to get a fresh start.  Both have graduated and are looking for work.  When Matt goes to work at Elm Creek Manor, Sarah goes to the once grand house to look around.  She has a very abrupt meeting with the owner, Sylvia Compson.  After the first meeting, Sylvia asks Sarah to come back and help her clean out and prepare the estate for sale.  Sarah is intrigued by the histoory of the old house and as she works side by side by Mrs. Compson, she begins to learn about the family who built it, and the heartbreak that threatened to destroy what remained.  Sarah also is introduced to the art of quilting by Sarah.  Brefriended by a group of local women who share the same love of quilting, Sarah is able to help Sylvia devise a plan to save the manor from developers and reunite sisters long seperated by anger.  This is the first book built around the Elm Creek Quilters, and a tale of forgiveness and understanding.	2001-05-10
US	50442542	R27CR8THDKVYWW	0374325170	281821540	The Gardener (Caldecott Honor Award)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A delightful story thay wiil grow in your heart	Lydia Grace Finch has been sent to to the city to live with her Uncle Jim while her family struggles with hard times.  Uncle Jim does not smile and Lydia Grace finds the big city very, very big.  Soon she is able to make friends with the workers at her uncle's bakery and the neiighbors in her building.  With a child's enthusiasm and optimism, Lydia works to bring a little bit of the farm back home to her new city home.  She also hopes to see a smile cross her Uncle Jim's face one day.  Slowly, she is able to transform the roof of her apartment into a magical place and win that coveted smile.  Sarah Stewart has written a delightful story of a child's optimism and the power of a smile.  Davis Small's illustrations are garenteed to bring a smile to your face.  A wonderful book to read aloud.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	R2KT444ZX2QI2F	0374452954	264640997	The Money Tree (Collections for young scholars)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Whimsical delight	The enchanting tale of Miss McGillicuddy and the unusual tree that grew in her yard.  It has a such a strange shape,and grew so fast.  One day she realizes that the leaves are dollar bills, how strange!  Miss McGillicuddy seems strangely unaffected by the money in the tree, she goes about her normal life.  She is relieved that strangers come to pick the dollars off the branches, saving them from breaking from under the weight of the bills.  As the seasons change, people are still trying to find money from the tree, which bemused the woman.  As winter comes, she has the tree chopped down for firewood.  Miss McGillicuddy is jusy as happy and content as she was before the magical tree grew. This book will spark any child's imagination. A wonderful story by Sarah Stewart, matched with delightful illustrations by David Small.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	R8PE9QS6U9PWJ	0374343888	525012122	The Library	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A must have for all book lovers.	Sarah Stewart has crafted a wonderful story of Elizabeth Brown, nearsighted and shy, who is not very good at sports.  Elizabeth Brown learns to read and from that moment on, she is emmersed in books. From climbing under the covers with a flashlight to read until late at night, to reading in class, to playing library with her friends, Elizabeth loves her books.  As she grows up, she chooses books as her companions and fills her house with books.  Like many people who love books, she passes up new clothes and snacks and looks for new books to read.  Soon her house is filled to the brim with books, books are everywhere!And Elizabeth still always has a book in her hand, no matter what she is doing.  Finally, realizing she hasn't room for one more single book she decides to find a new use for her beloved books.  This whimsical story  will spark recognition in older readers and delight youngsters.  Once again, Sarah Stewart and David Small have teamed to creat the very best of books.  This is a delight.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	R3238O00XO64WU	0374339058	204526932	The Journey	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Seeing life through new eyes	Hannah  has traveled with her mother and her mother's friend Maggie to the city.  For an Amish girl from a small community, the city is big and full of strange and wonderful things.  They go to the top of hig buildings, to marvelous stores, to big parks, the aquarium, the atr museum,on a boat ride and into a grand church.  While Hannah is enchanted and enthralled by all the new sites, each new site reminds her of things at home she loves.  Written as diary entries by Hannah during her adventures, this book manages to capture the wonder of a young girl in a new enviroment, and her thankfulness for the simple ways at home.  Once again Sarah Stewart has crafted a wonderful storyline and David Small has turned what is in the mind's eye into enchanting illustrations.  A wonderful book to read aloud, and to be enjoyed by all ages.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	R3SU942JD9R1KV	0767905695	287222394	Loose Balls: Easy Money, Hard Fouls, Cheap Laughs, and True Love in the NBA	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Laugh Riot	As I watched the Utah Jazz make their inevitable departure from the NBA playoffs, I was able to turn my attention to more enjoyable pursuits.  Jayson Willaims has crafted (along with Steve Friedman) an amusing and enjoyable look into the life of an NBA player.  Now let me be upfront, I am,not a big Jayson Williams fan, having endured his play in the Delta Center.  I didn't think there was much Mr. Williams had to say, but I was wrong.  This is a clear-eyed view of the state of professional basketball, the strong personalities that inhabit it, and the chaos that reigns behind the scenes.  Mr. Williams isn't shy about offering his opinions.  He is enormously entertaining, offering his opinions on fellow players, fans, money and basketball. The story of his trip after his first time in the playoffs is fall of your chair funny.  I thought this was one of the most honest and funniest sports autobiographies since my favorite of all time, &quot;I Can't Wait Until Tomorrow, Because I Get Better Looking Every Day&quot; by Joe Nameth.  A funny, funny book.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	R3CNUDBI9LWWV0	0375502637	788126984	Going Up the River: Travels in a Prison Nation	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A glimpse into todays' prisons	Joseph T. Hallinan undertakes to explain the phenonom of more prisons when the crime rate  is reportedly dropping.  What emerges is a comprehensive history of the prison system in America, and the trends that have shaped the corrections industry over the years.  From the earliest reformatories that sought to treat offenders, to remove them from bad enviroments, and to return them to society, to the super max facility in Pelican Bay, California this presents many of the schools of thought of prison management.  What Mr. Halliman is able to do is put a human face on the prison population.  He uses people to illustrate the effect of the prison and business. He looks at the prisoners, their jailers and their families.  In our quest for &quot;get tough&quot; laws we have flooded our prisons with people, and are struggling to keep up. One of the most interesting aspects of this book is the intruduction and expansion of private business into the running of America's corrections systems.  Money is a big factor in the way we treat the criminal and mentally ill.  This book is full of information and is emmensely readable.  But, it also leaves the reader with mant questions, and unfortunately, no clear cut answers.	2001-05-08
US	50442542	RMCPC91W5DVO7	0684807475	663582620	Carry Me Home : Birmingham, Alabama: The Climactic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution	Books	4	18	23	N	N	A comprehensive history	Diane McWhorter grew up as the daughter of a prominent Birmingham family.  Growing up in the 1960's she was somewhat insulated from the turmoil of the civil rights struggle right in her own city.  Carry Me Home is a comprehensive history of the racial,social and economic factors that made Birminghgam the city of Vulcan, and an inevitable site for some of the most violent and public struggles for racial equal rights.  In the beginning of the book, McWhorter writes of not knowing what was happening downtown even though her father played an increasingly active role in opposing Martin Luther King.  She speaks of the photograph &quot;of a colored boy who had stepped into the jaws of one of the German shepherd dogs&quot;, and that the people of her set knew the dog wasn't really attacking, but being restrained on its leash.  Huh?  And it is not until she is through school and in the professional world that she realizes that Birmingham played such a crucial role in the struggle.  In an effort to learn and understand the story, she undertakes the study, and uncovers a family legacy intertwined with the struggle.  This is a clear headed view of the whats, whos and whys of Birmingham.  I wanted more of a story of McWhorter, herself. As she became aware and how she felt knowing her family's place in infamy  and her own feelings.  I think that the exclusion of these factors is somewhat telling; of her place in society, being a female, and a teenager, and white.  A very well researched look into one side of the civil rights struggle.	2001-05-01
US	50442542	R240MWEKW92ILF	0743211227	165262901	The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio: How My Mother Raised 10 Kids on 25 Words or Less	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A wonderful tribute to an incredible spirit.	Terry Ryan grew up as one of ten children in a chaotic household in Definace, Ohio.  Her mother Evelyn worked tirelessly to stretch the small amount of money her father brought home, especially since that husband, Kelly Ryan, was an alcoholic.  Evelyn turned to contests to bring in money and prizes to keep her family afloat.  A witty, well-read woman who was determined to see the bright side of every situation, Evelyn kept the family together.  This is a warm, honest look at life in the 1950's and 60's.  After turning to the police and the church for help, the family learns to rely on a close network of family and friends.  Most of all, this big family learn to look out for one another and to help whenever they could.  The rhythm of life in a big family comes out loud and clear, the constant struggle for space, for recognition, and the many trips to schools, dentists and doctors, even the occasional visit to the police. There are many times when the Ryan family was close to eviction,or completely empty cupboards.  The family went without many times, but don't seem to carry a lasting sense of deprivation.  Terry Ryan is also very upfront about the effects of her father's drinking, the anger, the violence and the resentment. It is also a look at a woman who seemed to be restricted by times and circumstances expressed her wit and gift for words.  This is a wonderful tribute to a mother who was determined to do all she could to give her family what they needed.  The monetary struggles are borne with a fierce dignity (although hindsight makes the author realize that it took its toll). Evelyn Ryan's refusal to give in to self pity or anger, and her compassion and understanding for others' shortcomings are remarkable and the greatest legacy  any mother could leave her family.	2001-05-01
US	50442542	R388YI50BOBN7O	1574410806	491664373	Dance a Little Longer (Lucinda Richards Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Hard times	The final book in Jane Roberts Woods' trilogy finds Lucy Richards Arnold in rural West Texas, during the depression.  The harsh and arid landscape of the land is barely relieved by the people who populate the area,and the nearest town, Blue Bonnet.  Lucy and her husband Josh are working for the area school, she is once again teaching and he is the principal....and neither are made welcomed by the populace. They do make friends within the community and are able to undersatnd the dermands on those around them,but nothing is heard from characters at home, except for a brief appearance by Jeremiah.  Their son, John Patrick is a continuous light in their lives, but hard times and very little hope for relief have made the entire area weary and unwelcoming.  Once again Woods has been able to capture a time and place in Teaxs history and populate it with believable and complex characters.The realities of small town life, especially in hard times,ring true.  The whole book is suffused with the feel of the times, and is a wonderful look at characters we have come to care for.	2001-04-29
US	50442542	R29RSWE5KOGYD6	0140170456	784859333	The Road to My Farm	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A whole new direction	I first discovered Nora Seton through her book The Kitchen Congregation, and immediately set off to read any other book she had written.  The Road to My Farm is her account of venturing into the world of farming.  Entering Texas A&amp;M to study for a masters degree in agracultural science , Nora is so taken with the farming side of life, she sets off to establish a farm of her own.  What follows is a well thought out and written tale of what it means to farm today.  Decisions that need to be made, organic or chemical, livestock or crops, or a bit of both. To farm full time or just part time, to sell comercially or just at a roadside stand? Along for the adventure is her husband who is far more tolerant than many spouses of either sex.  Just as they find and are about to acquire what seems to be their dream farm, a job transfer threatens to whisk them away.  The snippet of conversation between the author and a determined tractor dealer is certain to bring smiles of recognition (and relief) as the reader remembers their own close calls with car salesmen. What is most striking about this book it the information it does not cover (or maybe the information that I would most like to know)....How does a young woman growing up in the east,daughter of a novelist and Ivy League educated, turn to farming as a passion?	2001-04-28
US	50442542	R2OG60QLG385VJ	0452282276	194568152	Round Robin (Elm Creek Quilts Series #2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wonderful story, some lose ends	Round Robin centers around the Elm Creek Quilters, friends who all live in the same town and who either own or teach at at the Elm Creek Quilt Camp.  From the time they gather at Elm Creek Manor to watch a television show featuring their camp, Sylvia, Judy, Sarah, Agnes, Gwen, Summer, and Diane find their lives becoming more complicated.  The group makes plans to complete a round robin quilt to present to Sylvia, the founder and Guiding force behind Elm Creek, but each woman is forced to confront the challanges and changes in their own lives.  From damaged mother-child relationships, abandonment, dreams lost, angry teenagers, financial difficulties and shifting marital roles these women rely on each other for humor and support.  This is wonderful story of the nurturing friendships  women fashion throughout their lives. These ties are tested and tugged and strained and still manage to survive and sustain, enriching not only the friends but their families as well. I only wish this was a bit longer and the stories more complete.  But this is part of a series and there is sure to be more to come. You don't need to be a quilter to appreciate this warm tale.	2001-04-28
US	50442542	R2QCU5LMF0ONMX	060980619X	849421589	God Save the Sweet Potato Queens	Books	3	6	8	N	N	If I could just dress like this for one day...I'd die happy	Just looking at the covers of the Sweet Potato Queen books brings a smile to your face. And Lord knows, I have the attitude to be a queen.  Once again, Jill Browne  has allowed us entry into the wit and wisdom of the SPQ and all you can do is hang on for the ride.  This second book does not disappoint, it will have you nodding your head with recognition and laughing out loud.  (Do not take this to church as something to read if the service gets too boring). This brought me back to my growing up days in Texas, where I longed to be like several incarnations of the Sweet Potato Queen in my home town.  Once again, I have to go against the popular opinion.....it is a wickedly funny look at the ways men and women relate, but the overdose of vulgarity wears thin.	2001-04-25
US	50442542	R73DLS6N49IJ6	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A southern delight	Poor Miss Julia, not only has her husband died, but soon after a child is left on her doorstep.  After living a life seemingly beyond reproof, Miss Julia discovers that her deceased spouse has sired a son.  A puny, not much spunk son at that.  Miss Julia is determined that she will do the right thing by the child, even though she has no children of her own, and finds them a bit bewildering. It's time she started thinking for herself.  Aided by her lawyer and housekeeper, Miss Julia undertakes to untangle the mess her husband has left behind.  What she doesn't see coming is the mad dash for her husband's money, and the lengths even the most respectable people will go to to try to get their hooks into that big chunk of change. Nor does she see how Little Lloyd or his mother will fit into her settled, respectable life.  A wonderful characterization of life in a small southern town.	2001-04-25
US	50442542	R1AE1F62O0VE86	1570031290	326677746	An Antebellum Plantation Household: Including the South Carolina Low Country Receipts and Remedies of Emily Wharton Sinkler	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Opening the pages of the past	An Antebellum Plantation Household is a unique opportunity to view life on a plantation in the 1800's.  Emily Wharton Sinkler was raised in Philadelphia and moved to South Carolina as the 19 year old bride of Charles Sinkler.  She lived on a plantation which was one of several that belonged to her husband's family.  This book contains letters Emily wrote to her family describing her daily life, and the society she moved in.  She describes the land, the family life, the discussions of war between the north and south, sewing projects, the slaves her husband owned, religious life, and much more. The letters that have survived give a glimpse into the life of a plantation wife.  The second half of the book is &quot;reciepts&quot; or receipes for food, home health remedies and cleaning potions. I actually tried Potatoes a La Lyonnaise and got rave reviews.  It is interesting to see how evertday cleaning supplies were made and the mixture for hair dye.  This is a rare glimpse into life in the 1800's.	2001-04-25
US	50442542	RN7UUVEMWSJ7Z	0684850125	499010384	Freedom's Daughters: The Unsung Heroines of the Civil Rights Movement from 1830 to 1970	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Not to be missed.....Great  women, indeed.	&quot;Freedom's Daughters, The Unsung Heroines of the Civil Rights Movement From 1830 to 1970&quot; brings to light the names, known and unknown of the countless women who carried the civil rights struggle on their shoulders.  From the early Underground Railroad conductors, such as Harriet Tubman (who would brandish a gun at hesitant or frightened slaves who stating &quot;You'll be free or die&quot;) to First Lady Eleanore Roosevelt, to the firebrand radicals of the 70's...all aspects are opened to view. The practice of slave owners using their black slaves sexually, and the dehumanization of blacks. The split in the early suffergette movement, when some women couldn't support voting rights for black men. The rise of brutal lynchings, excused by the fear that black men would rape white women. The constant battle of &quot;are we pushing enough, or not enough?&quot;.  The real threat of jail and beatings and death. The delicate balance that had to be maintained between women and men in the civil rights movement.  All these sensitive subjects are discussed.  The  true heroines of this book are the women who took the first steps, despite the certain retribution that awaited them. Women who spoke out on the horror of lynching.  Women who sought equal education despite race and sex. Women who walked instead of riding the Montgomery buses. Women who walked into lunch counters and diners and asked to be waited on.  Women who opened their homes and what little they had to Freedom Riders.  Women who spent countless hours trying to encourage others to register to vote, to continue with education, to face the uncertain future with dignity.  These names should be household names, Ida Wells, Jo Ann Robinson, Virginia Durr, Pauli Murray, Lillian Smith, Ella Baker, Diane Nash, Casey Haden, Anne Braden, the children of McComb, Missippi, Septima Clark, Fannie Lou Hamer, Bernice Johnson Reagon, Penny Patch, Laura McGhee, Annell Ponder, June Johnson, Joyce and Dori Ladner, Gloria Richardson, Mary Dora Jones, Annie Mae King, Hazel Brannon Smith, Viola Luzzio, Eleanore Holmes Norton, Martha Griffiths, Shirley Chisom, Ruby Doris Smith Robinson, Annie Devine, Unita Blackwell, Ida Wells, Sarah Johnson, Johnnie Carr, Ida Mae Holland, Joan Browning, Cornelia Smith, Fitzgerald, Mary Church Terrell, and others who worked at their side....women who saw a great wrong and did what they could to right that wrong. It is a revelation that so many people made a choice to act in whatever way they could.  It is inspiring to temporarily share their history.  This is a comprehensive and unflinching look at a shameful portion of our history and a story that still reverberates today.rdson, Mary Dora Jones, Annie Mae King, Hazel Brannon Smith, Viola Luzzio, Eleanore Holmes Norton, Martha Griffiths, Shirley Chisom, Ruby Doris Smith Robinson, Annie Devine, Unita Blackwell, Ida Wells, Sarah Johnson, Johnnie Carr, Ida Mae Holland, Joan Browning, Cornelia Smith, Fitzgerald, Mary Church Terrell, and others who worked at their side....women who saw a great wrong and did what they could to right that wrong. It is a revelation that so many people made a choice to act in whatever way they could.  It is inspiring to temporarily share their history.  This is a comprehensive and unflinching look at a shameful portion of our history and a story that still reverberates today.	2001-04-25
US	50442542	RYLMYJS5RM7CK	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Sometimes too much is too much	I am going against the popular opinion with my review of this book.  I know it is not a book  you would want your mamma see you read (she's barely recovered from me getting suspended for &quot;Valley of the Dolls&quot; in 1973).  This celebration of southern womanhood is indeed a full of laughs.  I mean tears running down your cheeks, snorting at your desk at work laughs.  Beware,it will be grabbed out of your hands because you  cannot breathe enough to tell your co-workers what has set off this laughing.....if you can actually repeat the phrase or story that triggered the laughing fit.  There lies my dilemma.  It is full of great humor, wonderful receipes and women you want to emulate.  You will want to go buy your own tiara.  It is full of the zest for life that we all want.  I found that repeated vulgarity, even in this funny context was grating, and ultimately detracted from the book.  Can I still keep my tiara?	2001-04-24
US	50442542	R3JAHTFWN809YC	0786866845	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival at the South Pole	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Mixed feelings	Dr. Jerri Nielsen's ongoing medical drama was the subject of many conversations on the hospital unit where I work.  I couldn't wait to read her first hand account of her struggle.  The opening chapter quickly sketch her early life and decision to become a doctor.  She also touches briefly on her past marriage and estrangement from her children.  It is cut and dried, leaving no doubt that she feels she was the only adult in the situation.  Feeling unhappy and seeking a change, Dr. Nielsen applies for, and is accepted to be the only doctor on an American research  base on Antarctica.  Before she knows it, she is on the other side of the world in a bizzare enviroment.  The base is populated  with various researchers, support staff, an odd assortment of people who have chosen to be in the isolated base for a year.  During her year, Dr. Nielsen discovers a lump in her breast, and must begin diagnostic procedures and treatments on the base, there is no way to leave the continent for several months.  The parts of the story that deal with her coworkers stepping in to aid her and to take on jobs that they wouldn't dream of doing in &quot;the world&quot; are facinating.  The efforts made by those on the base and the outside to give her every available chance are  spellbinding. I am amazed that these events took place and that the outcome was so positive.  Where the book fails is the everyday. The recounting of the day to day, the e-mails verbatim, and the grind of life on the pole are wearing and tedious. I found the first person style too much for me.	2001-04-20
US	50442542	R1KUKXBYGC8W00	0743202570	891064396	The Cross-Country Quilters (Elm Creek Quilts Series #3)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	You don't have to be a quilter to appreciate this book	The Cross Country Quilters is the first book by Jennifer Chiaverini I have read.  I also know nothing about quilting.  Quilting knowledge is not a prerequisit to reading and enjoying this book.  Much like Julia, the newest quilter at Elm Creek Quilt Camp, I was slowly drawn into the world of material,color, and design.  During a summer session of quilt camp a unlikely grouping of friends takes root, and they promise to continue their friendship through designing and completing their own block of a challange quilt. They plan to meet the following summer to piece the blocks together.  The five women, Julia, Vinnie, Megan, Grace and Donna return home not only to face the challanges of the quilt blocks. They also must face the continuing challanges of their busy lives with work, family, careers, and illness.  At times it seems that each woman has too much to deal with, without worrying about the planned meeting the following summer.  Just as quilting combines materials which don't seem to have much in common, Jennifer Chiaverini, using the theme of quilting and friendship, intertwines these women's varied lives with warmth and believability. I look forward to reading the other books by this author.	2001-04-17
US	50442542	R19EVVCXAIDYUI	0399234020	664510057	Dancing in Cadillac Light	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Ride along with Jaynell	Jaynell Lambert misses her grandmother something awful.  So does her grandfather.  Grandpap has hardly said a word since his wife died.  Finally, Jaynell's parents bring Grandpap to live with them, and Jaynell is forced to share a room with her younger sister Racine.  Even though Racine is only eleven months younger, She and Jaynell couldn't be more different.  Racine loves to dance and giggle with her friends.  Jaynell likes to go with Grandpap and fish and ride in his car.  And Jaynell's dad has asked her to keep a extra close eye on Grandpap....he's been mighty strange as of late.  This wonderful book by Kimberly Willis Holt explores the social differences in small town life, how we are afraid of that which is different, and how a young girl learns to honor the legacy left by someone she loves.	2001-04-10
US	50442542	R1H33MFEKQRIRX	1573241733	816556196	Christian Acts of Kindness (Random acts of kindness)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A gentle but powerful nudge	As stated in the preface, acts of kindness need not be elaberate or planned.  This small book is a treasure trove of esperiences of kindness, given and received.  Some are big, like a complete christmas provided for a family down on its luck.  Some are small, like not hitting back.  It is a reminder that we all have the capacity to reach out.  I took this book to church with me, in case the services got too boring.  I read it, my kids read it , and I have since reread it several times since.  A gentle nudge towards becomming a kinder person.	2001-04-10
US	50442542	R1V6L6UFMP9CAX	0375501509	118607086	Talk to Me: Listening Between the Lines	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Snippets of insight, but so substance	I had seen this author interviewed on several different forums and was eager to read &quot;Talk to Me; Listening Between the Lines&quot;. This book has so much promise, bringing to mind the work of Studs Terkel.....and that promise is never realised.  Anna Deavere Smith emerges as a &quot;talking head&quot; interested in putting her spin on what she hears rather than listening.  There is no lack of potentially engrossing material, Washington,D.C. or the Beltway as insiders call it, a women's correctional facility, access to rich, famous and powerful....and it is all wasted.  This book was a real disappointment.	2001-04-10
US	50442542	R1GGXJKM2TNENY	0312265719	669854638	The Day I Went Missing: A True Story	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Just plain weird	The  Day I Went Missing is a disturbing look into one woman's quest for self  understanding through psycho-therapy, and the disaaterous results . Jennifer Miller  had worked as a writer on various TV shows, was achieveing some measure of success but, sensed something was lacking in her life.  Paul, a friend, suggested she see his therapist David Cohen.  This new doctor-patient pairing is the beginning of  Miller's decent into a confusing and expensive world of the weirdest therapy (and scam) encountered.  There are numerous times when a red warning flags went up as I read this book, and I had a hard time understanding why this professional woman was so under the spell of Cohen.  I was also very disturbed by the constant parent bashing on the part of the author, the unwillingness to move ahead and accept responsibility for her own emotional well being.  It took guts to write this book, to lay bare the enormous deception  Miller underwent.  But it is very disturbing that the author seems to be more forgiving and even nostalgic for the manipulative and destructive influence of Cohen, even after seeing the full face of his deception.	2001-04-10
US	50442542	R1J1QJZYJ7Y1JN	0743422287	932690813	Amy's Answering Machine: Messages from Mom	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The book is good, the CD is better	Anyone who has heard Amy Borowsky talk about her mother and her messages knows how funny those messages are. This is a very funny book, but something is lost in the transition to the written word.  This book contains some of the funniest messages Amy's mom has left...but anyone who has heard the CD, or even snippets of the CD may be disappointed.  The missing ingredient is her mother's voice, the tone and phrasing and concern in each message, the sincere and unselfconscious way Amy's mom imparts her advice and care.You can laugh yourself silly listening to that CD.  The book is funny, the messages about the red bathrobe, the single Jewish guy in Alaska, underwire bras and metal detector at the airport, and the Jewish rye with suspicious origins.  You can't help but laugh. There is a very witty dialogue in the book as Amy moves from catagory to catagory, &quot;Why a mother is better than a guy&quot;, &quot;If I still lived with my mother she would dress me&quot;, and &quot;What's wrong with this bachelor?&quot;.  It is funny and tender and insightful.  A good book to give to a friend dealing with a mother giving regular ovary alerts.  Better yet, buy the CD and give them both.  (Amy's mom, I'm sorry I didn't give it five stars.  Please don't call).	2001-04-08
US	50442542	R1RALNIBIO0QXJ	0743204093	218714422	Augusta, Gone: A True Story	Books	5	12	13	N	N	No one can rip your heart out like your own child	Harrowing, esaperating, maddening, heartwrenching....Martha Tod Dudman's story of life with her teenage daughter Augusta, is amazing in its honesty.  I don't know that I would open my life for others to read.  This book, no matter how you view it, is a remarkable accounting of life with a teenage daughter seemingly bent on destruction.  It spares no details, no matter how dark or  unflattering.  When a  child turns to behaviors that frighten family, there is anger, guilt, fear..and it touches the whole family and leaves them all bruised.  Dudman looks into her own feelings of guilt and responsibility,her relationship with her son, her struggle to continue with regular life, even when everything is falling apart.  This is as much a study of family life today, divorce, anger, disillusionment, changes in lifestyles.  It also poses the question,&quot;Why are the behaviors we (parents) may have indulged in seem so much more threatening today? It looks at the new industry of wilderness camps and reprogramming rebellious and uncontrollable teens(and raises valid points about their methods and qualifications). In the end, this is one family's story of survival.  I admire this author and her daughter for being so honest.  This is a book that any parent of a child who is seemingly uncontrollable and unreachable should read.  It doesn't give the answers, but you realise that you are not alone.	2001-04-07
US	50442542	R2LJBTMDN81O97	0316591564	441021432	The Oldest Rookie: Big-League Dreams from a Small-Town Guy	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Dreams do come true	The Oldest Rookie recounts the improbable journey of pitcher Jim Morris to &quot;the Big Show&quot;.  Born to young parents, his father a military man who didsdained authority, and a mother who picked up the pieces after each move, Jim always remembers having a ball in his hand.  Throughout the many moves, sports provided an introduction to new schools, new friends, and self esteem.  Sports also provided a safe haven from the change and  the chaotic life at home.  Baseball was his first love, and the chance to play minor league ball at the age of 19 was a dream come true.  Several years of struggle and injury finally eneded the baseball dream, and Jim moved onto real life, a wife, kids, debt, and struggle.  Throughout this time, Jim continued school, played college football (punting for his college at the age of 29). Eventually, he found himself coaching high school baseball.  Sensing his love of the game, the students make a bargin, if they make it to regionals, Jim will try out for the major league job he never achieved.  At the age of 35, Jim Morris was the oldest rookie to ever start in the big leagues, pitching, no less.  The story is remarkable enough, but Morris' accounting of the struggles of a young man unable to realize his dream is compelling.  Along with co author,Joel Engle , he tells the story of the man his younger teammates came to call &quot;the Unnatural&quot;.  A wonderful story for any baseball fan, and a story of hope for anyone who feels they have let a dream pass them by.	2001-04-02
US	50442542	R22UKJYBWBFFZ3	0312263481	420238728	The Kitchen Congregation: A Daughter's Story of Wives and Women Friends	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Come sit at the table /We are all in this together	We (women) recreate our childhoods in our kitchens.  We bring to it everything we remember as good, pushing the bad and unhappy aside. It is where we gather, not to cook like the &quot;little hommaker&quot; but to nuture and to nourish.  Nora Seton has drawn together some remarkable memories of her mother, intertwined with stories of friendships and insights gleaned during time in other kitchens, as well as her own.  Friendship with Senta, the older woman who invokes angels to assist her, and who accompanies the author through one of life's most difficult journeys. Ida, sharing hard won insight into the precarious balances struck by women and men. Seton writes of a good friend contemplating divorce.  Much of what is important in life is discussed as she moves through the comforting, numbing, sustaining work in her kitchen.  Friends gather at the table, gaining physical sustanance.  More importantly, they sustain one another, continuing a thread established by others long ago....women gathered in the kitchen.  Meals are prepared,regrets expressed,dreams unfurl and unravel, recepies for food and life are shared, husbands analysed, lives discussed, children intrude and are gathered in, we tend to rehearse amd inspect what is most precious in tandem with the mundane. Never is Seton more elequent, then when writing about loss.  The loss of a parent, a child, the bloom of love, the tolerence of marriage,the dreams of youth,  all these are brought to the table in distilled form, after simmering over a low flame, stirring and tending, until the clarity remains.  Nora Seton has crafted a remarkable book of her continuing journey in the kitchen, seeking sustanance. I was moved and comforted by what the book brought to me (it also sent me looking for the novels her mother wrote, a wonderful tribute).	2001-04-01
US	50442542	R1SR1AXJI2DRAH	0743216032	305124905	Rules for the Unruly: Living an Unconventional Life	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Cherish your inner weirdness	I am a die-hard fan of Marion Winik.  From my first exposure to her work in Texas Monthly magazine, I was hooked. So, I was taken aback when I was directed to the self help section for her latest title.  Self help?  Marion Winik pokes fun at self help books, she doesn't write them.  Don't let catagory  fool you. Once you pick up this book, you won't want put it down.  Winik gives seven rules to live your life by, among them &quot;mistakes need not be fatal&quot;, people are more important than possessions&quot;, and my favorite, &quot;learn to use a semicolon&quot;.  Drawing from her own colorful life, she shares an insight that is encouraging as well as forgiving. She does not shy away from expressing regret or acknowledging a mistake,laughing at the follies or excesses of youth. The best teachers are those who have learned from their own experiences, the best writers are those who are able to share their ideas and feelings. She accomplishes both. What makes this such an effective &quot;self help&quot; book is the tone.  It is like sitting down and chatting with an old friend, remembering shared feelings and  experiences, laughing at inexperience, cringing at now obvious mistakes, sharing sorrows.  There are no worksheets, no big lists of questions probing your inner self. Rather, this book imparts a gentle wisdom that has been hard earned from personal experiences,and from observing friends and loved ones.  Maybe it is the fact she is a fellow Texan that draws me to her writing, or we are the same age, share common cultural landmarks, or even that we both visited the very same tattoo parlor in Austin, Texas. Most likely, it is the fact that even when addressing the difficult issues in life, Marion Winik uses gentle humor and compassion to make her point.  Part self guidance, part autobiography, this is a wonderful book.	2001-03-31
US	50442542	RZL199ZG7E8LC	0820322423	852950166	Woman in Front of the Sun: On Becoming a Writer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	You cannot be passive and create.	I stumbled upon this title while reading an issue of The Oxford American and decided to give it a read.  What a revelation!  I am not familiar with any of Judith Ortiez Cofer's other works, but if this is any indication, I will be reading them all.  A collection of essays, poems and folktales, this book blends the author's emergence as a writer with memories of growing up as a Puerto Rican in Patterson, New Jersey.  The influences of the island her parents left behind, the Catholic Church as well as  the emerging women's movement, combine with a Growing knowledge that the author wants to write.  This is not only an autobiography, it is a compelling argument of why she has answered the call to write, and the struggles with self, that she, as a writer has faced.  It examines the drive to create, the forces that pull one away from writing, and the quest to have a place of one's own.  In clear, lyrical language, she encourages women to seek a life of truth, no matter the route or medium.  She reveals some of the writers (a diverse group) that ignited her imagination and passion for writing.  &quot;Take what you can use and let the rest rot&quot; is an expression used, and this book is invaluable to women, actually , to anyone who loves to read and who longs to use words to reach others.  The best &quot;writing&quot; book I have read in years, and a treasure to keep.	2001-03-30
US	50442542	R3KBUA570INWK3	0618093974	504583572	My Life on a Plate	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A snickering good time	India Knight introduces us to Clara Hutt, thirty three year old married, mother of two, with an interesting-ish job as a writer. Clara is bothered by the vague feeling that there is more to life than she has.  Her mother is about to embark on husband number four, she bungles an important interview, and she is confronted by the body that has aged and borne two children.  She tries to engage her husband in serious conversation about their marriage and love life.  She tries to keep her two boys from killing each other, or just saying something too wildly inappropiate. She has a real life. Never whining, or morose, our Clara forges on, and discovers she still has plenty to offer.  India Knight makes Clara and her life come alive with very believable dialog,( the book is worth a read just to experience Sammy, the two year old or the bikini wax appointment)and laugh out loud moments.  I really enjoyed this book, found it  a jolly good read.	2001-03-27
US	50442542	R16QNRSDW7ERP5	0807519812	660437270	Elsa, Star of the Shelter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Elas is a star!	Elsa, and her family have been forced to live at a Bed and Breakfast hotel. It isn't as nice as it sounds, it is actually a homeless shelter.  Elsa's mum and stepfather Mack seem to be overwhelmed by the change in circumstances,and Elsa feel it is up to her to make life bearable for them,as well as her younger half sister and brother.  This is a very tender book which treats a very grim subject with warmth and humor and realism.  Elsa copes with her situation by telling jokes, and her footnotes introduce the reader to the differences in language in the US and England.  Once again, Jacqueline Wilson and illustrator Nick Sharrat have combined to make a delightful story that will be enjoyed by the younger reader.	2001-03-27
US	50442542	RWLIOP8ZSH66R	0312203594	204384680	Alice's Tulips: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Once you start this, you won't be ablt to put it down!	A word of warning for anyone considering reading a Sandra Dallas book....Once you start, you will ignore everything else until you finish the book!  &quot;Alice's Tulips&quot; is no exception.  Following the life of newlywed Alice Bullock, who has left a more comfortable life to live in Slatyfork, and the life of a farmer's wife.  Her husband joins the Union army and leaves Alive with Mother Butler, her plain speaking (if she speaks at all)harworking mother-in-law. Life is not easy foe a young bride, missing her husband, the comfortable town life she once led,  and beginning to face the harsh realities of farm life.  The townfolk of Slatyfork barely tolerate her:they accept her only because of her quilting abilities, and the only solace Alice find is in her letters to her sister Lizzie.  This is a very fast paced book, character driven, and written in a most engaging manner.  In the letters Alice writes, we are able to see her mature as a woman and really begin to face the life and changes the Civil War brings to her and those she loves.  A wonderful book.	2001-03-23
US	50442542	RTK4D1N55I6XR	0525945652	613318936	Jimmy's Girl	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Can you ever go back again?  A heartwarming tale.	Emily Hudson has a settled life.  He husband is successful, her children happy, and she is able to pursue her love of painting.  She is haunted by the memories of her first love, Jimmy Moran.  They spent one wonderful year together, until Jimmy was shipped out to book camp, and then left for Vietnam.  The memories of a brief meeting, between bootcamp and Vietnam haunt Emily, and she wonders what if?  Jimmy has his own life, married and father of one.  His quiet life is inturrupted when Emily contacts him.  They decide to meet, Emily expalaining she needs help with a series of paintings she is beginning.  The story alternates between the two of them, telling of the memories, the indecision, the fallout with family. There is so much truth in the emotions described, the thoughts you have at certain points in life, &quot;is this how it was meant to be, what if I had followed my first love&quot;?  This is a masterful first novel, giving voice to an emotion that many of us have when we reach midlife. Stephanie Gertler has crafted a wonderful story of trying to return to your first love.  That time when you were so alive with love and belief that you could face anyrhing together.  What rings most true is the characters themselves, the emotions, the choices they eventually make.  The characters remain true to the selves we come to know.  I was so sad to finish this book, I hope there are more books to follow.	2001-03-23
US	50442542	RG2FX8R63JFAJ	0312182341	829049174	The World of Rosamunde Pilcher	Books	5	113	113	N	N	See where the inspiration comes from	I have enjoyed Rosamunde Pilcher's writing for over twenty years.  This book, &quot;The World of Rosamunde Pilcher&quot; opens a window into the land and people that inspire her.  There is a brief (all too brief in my opinion), autobiographical section of her childhood, and her husband's upbringing.  Her mother-in-law has a love story worthy of a Pilcher book.  There are photographs of her as a child, and young married and with her family.  The bulk of the book is devoted to the country in which she now lives.  The story she tells of acquiring the Bank house could also be straight out of a Pilcher book.  There are  pages of photos of the highlands of Scotland, the coast of Cornwell and the hustle and bustle of London. It also goes into the homes she inhabits and the furnishings.  We are able to see how and where she lives, get a sense of her as a person.  It is easy to feel a sense of the country she loves so well, and the photos are accompanied by the author's own words.  This is a must read for anyone who enjoys this prolific author, and gives an insight into what inspires and colours her wonderful tales.	2001-03-23
US	50442542	R213TBA87USJ6T	0440413710	48986220	The Suitcase Kid	Books	5	6	6	N	N	When the parents split up, where do you fit in?	Andy West's parents have divorced and have started new lives with other partners.  Andy is to spend one week with her mother and the &quot;Baboon&quot; and his miserable children.  While there, she is forced to share her step-sister Katie's room, and Katie goes out of her way to make Andy miserable.  On the weeks Andy stays with her dad and his &quot;new agey&quot; wife Carrie, she shares a room with 5 year old twins Zen and Crystal, and their mess. To add to the misery, Carrie is pregnant.  The only one who understands's Andy's confusion is her constant companion Radish, a tiny toy rabbit. Radish understands how Andy misses the tiny cottage she  and her parents shared. Radish understands how hard it is to make people you barely know, your family.  Radish understands how hard it is to remember all your schoolwork and belongings when you stay at two places.  All Andy wants is a place for her and Radish to feel at home. One day she and Radish discover a tiny, hidden garden, that they long to make their own. This is a sensitive story of divorce and one child trying to cope with events out of her control.  Once again, Jacqueline Wilson has displayed an uncanny understanding of the needs of a child, and a true ear for dialog.  This is a sweet book and a must read for anyone you know who has been touched by divorce.	2001-03-19
US	50442542	R59WVQCDXWJF0	0385327188	194675949	The Lottie Project	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A fun read	Charlie Enright is happy with the way things are.  She and her mum Jo live in their little apartment and Charlie is looking forward to the new school year with her friends Lisa and Angela. Then the new teacher, Miss Beckworth, insists on calling her Charlotte, and on making her sit next to Jamie Edwards, the drippiest boy in school. To make matters even worse, Miss Beckworth, who doesn't seem to have a humerous bone in her body, has assigned all the class to do a project on the Victorians, Yuck!  What was going to be a great school year is turning out to be perfectly wretched. When Jo comes home with news of changes in her job, and Charlie feels her life is spinning out of control.  This delightful book follows the changes in Charlie's life as she tries to get her Victorian project done, cope with her friends growing up and beginning to like boys (Yuck), and endures Miss Beckworth. There is even a delightful story within the story.  I couldn't wait to see what happened next and how Charlie would manage to cope. A great book about growing up and changes.	2001-03-19
US	50442542	R57JZ352IPGM7	052594544X	955094502	On Secret Service	Books	5	1	2	N	N	John Jakes does not disappoint	John Jakes turns his historical novelization talents towards the Secret Service, and the beginnings of spying turned inward in our nation's history.  Jakes introduces us to four people, all involved in the burgening War Between the States. Lon Price is the son of an Underground Railroad conductor.  He works for Allan Pinkerton's protection service,and follows his boss when General George McClellen forms what will later become the Secret Service.  While on duty, helping escort a newly elected Abraham Lincoln by train to the nation's capital, he crosses paths with Margaret Miller, a southern sympathizer.  The meeting has a lasting effect on both parties, but Margaret continues to have loyalties to the south and its cause.  Her brother is rising in the ranks of the intelligence arm of the rebels, and her husband is dependant on southern cotten for his money.  Hanna Siegel is hampered by being a woman.  She had to follow her father when he came to America, seeking fortune.  She is ill at ease in the world of a young woman, and seeks to find her place in the theatre.  Her father has no objections, he barely notices her existance.  She even tries to masquerading as a soldier, until caught up in a real skirmish and quickly exposed.  She is saved by a rebel, Major Fred Dasher, from being thrown in among the other captured soldiers.  They know nothing about each other, but still hope to meet again.  Centered in and around Washington,D.C., On Secret Service blends the known facts of history with the lives of these unforgettable individuals.  The characters are well drawn and the story is driven equally by their actions and history. It paints a true picture of the turmoil, violence, mixed emotions towards slavery and race, and the waste of war.  It is believable,well written and very fast paced.  It presents an exciting time and area of the history of the United States.	2001-03-13
US	50442542	R1TAR2FKZ2EYVC	0385316879	170822767	Journey	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not her best	Journey follows the life of Madeline Hunter, successful TV anchor  and wife of successful media mogal Jack Hunter. The perfect life that the two present to the world is not all that it appears to be.  Maddy is haunted by the abusive past that Jack rescued her from.  Jack is the attentive husband, taking care of Maddy's every need, but a dark side to that TLC is beginning to emerge. New friendships, job changes, and the couples access to the powerful in Washington, D.C set in motion an awakening in Maddy, that her charmed life may come at too high a price.  The plot is quickly paced, but the characters are sometimes painted with too broad a brush.  There isn't the emotional attachment you sometimes get while reading DS. Certain friends of mine roll their eyes when I say I am reading a Danielle Steel book.  I admit it, I like her books, find her style easy to read, and her plotlines are usually character driven and fast paced.  This was not one of her best efforts.	2001-03-11
US	50442542	R23IDBLJQWRUB5	0805065830	982606019	The Adversary: A True Story of Monstrous Deception	Books	3	16	26	N	N	A difficult read....I'd skip it	Perhaps it is the translation from the French to English.  Perhaps it is the philisophical side trips the author takes.  Perhaps I am just getting  even for the waiter who was rude to me in Paris...I did not care for this book.  The story could be compelling.  What made Jean-Claude Romand kill his two children, his parents and his wife, and then perhaps attempt to take his own life?  Why did he create an elaborate false life as a successful physician for the World Health Organization and medical researcher?  The theory put forth is he was simply caught up in events he was unable to stop, a lie, upon another lie.  There is no background to speak of, Romand is portrayed merely as a weak cypher unable to stand up and take the consequences for his own actions.  When he feared he was to be exposed he killed, and said he was trying to do away with himself...but, unable, or stopped before he was able to go through with his own physical destruction. There are glimpses of reason, or understanding, quickly obscured by philosophical tangents.  The style is spare, far too spare.  The  story follows the sequence of events and then leaves it.  This was frustrating to read and not worth the effort.	2001-03-10
US	50442542	RITQAQ81XL33N	1878086863	512786926	Coming Home: Life, Love, and All Things Southern	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A collection of life's observations	Robert Inman is the author of genial southern novels such as &quot;Dairy Queen Days&quot; and a keen observer of the human condition.  He is also one of the best guides to the writing life, as sampled in the final chapter of his autobiography &quot;Coming Home, Life, Love and All Things Southern&quot;.  Inman takes a clear-eyed look at the southern style of life and the reasons we southern people are the way we are.  The stories and reminices are tender and warmharted and a treat to read.  The best part of thei book is Inman's explaination of why we in the south always ask &quot;who are your people?&quot; and the way we try to find the common link.  As Mr. Inman says,  we are just trying to say  &quot;I am prepared to like you, and would be honered to be your friend...&quot;.  A wonderful read, a joy for its warmth and quick wit.	2001-03-09
US	50442542	RLJZW3H8YR7LE	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Does truth prevail?	Returning from its mission of delivering vital componants for the bombs that were to eventually hasten the second World War, the USS Indianapolis was doomed.  Given orders to head to port, and not to take evasive actions, the Indianapolis was spotted by a Japanese submarine and torpedoed. This book is a very complete chronicle of the events leading up to and following the horrendous ordeal of the survivour of the Indanapolis.  What makes it that much more remarkable, it was first published in 1958, when it was much more difficult to obtain records from the Navy and when people weren't as likely to speal ill of the armed forces.  Richard Newcomb, pieces the facts and the recollections of some of the 316 survivors.  What emerges is a portrait of a captain, following orders, not receiving full intelligence in regards to enemy submarines in the area, and the difficulty in penetrating the cloak of secrecacy ( and protection of self-interest) in the Pacific theatre.  The court marshall transcripts are riviting and the appearance of Mochitsura Hashimoto, the commander of the attacking Japanese submarine is unprecedented.  The list of survivors at the end of the book is stark reminder of the sheer numbers that were lost (I wish there had also been a list of the men lost). Anyone who has watched Jaws, remembers the scene when the shark hunter, Quint, rolls up his sleeve and recounts the horrible tale of the USS Indianapolis, the men picked off one by one by by injuries, the elements and the sharks. This is  the real horror.  What makes this tale even more riviting is the efforts of author Richard Newcomb to keep the inquirey open, and to seek a real justice for the ship's commander Charles McVay III.  The addition of a middle schooler Hunter Scott, who picked the Indianapolis as a history project, and despite his youth, could see that justice was lacking, kept the quest alive.  What is most striking is the fact that after all these years the truth remains the same.  These men didn't have to die, the Navy treated McVay as a sacrifical scapegoat, and that the militery is still unwilling to admit its full responsibility ring loud and clear.n didn't have to die, the Navy treated McVay as a sacrifical scapegoat, and that the militery is still unwilling to admit its full responsibility ring loud and clear.	2001-03-07
US	50442542	R2K0QBXTRIXOS0	0375410104	588460469	Off Keck Road	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not bad, but not good	Off Keck Road  chronicles Bea Maxwell, daughter of a well-to-do family in Green Bay,Wisconsinand her journey apart from the expectations of her times.  Bea is never openly rebellious, in fact she is passive, floating from one reaction to another.  As her life unfolds (almost without any direction from Bea, she simply reacts to what life doles out) she collects a group of the cast offs of the town, people who reside on and near Keck Road.  I was really put off the passive tone of the book, found it hard to follow.  The characters are well-drawn, but not people you really are drawn to. The wonderful writing is weakened by the fact that you can't muster up too much concern or interest in thse people.  A real let down, especially following the previous books by Mona Simpson.	2001-03-07
US	50442542	R37Q1MI3S0U84W	1559705612	307135118	The Queen & Di: The Untold Story	Books	3	17	23	N	N	An interesting twist	As editor of Majesty Magazine, Ingrid Seward knows better than to bite the hand that feeds her.  The Queen and Di is a remarkably balanced look into the relationship between Queen Elizabeth II and the late Princess Diana.  Seward selects several areas of the women's lives and compares them, the way they were raised, the early years of marriage, reactions to their husband's infidelities, and relations with the public, and other.  I found this tactic to be a bit wanting.  There is a definite pro-royal family slant (the opening chapter presents a diagnosis of Diana's mental illness, I'd like to see what a psychiatrist has to say in regards to the Queen's personality profile), though I found the book to be more objective than some of Seward's previous books and interviews.  Trying to compare these two women is a hopeless task there is a vast age difference, and the times and circumstances in which they were raised too different.  In essence, these same differences, between Diana and her husband, is what doomed the royal marriage, and perhaps kept anyone from offering help. Because she is familiar with the royal family, Seward has some real insight and some stories that aren't already mashed to death by other media sources.  The passages where Diana discusses the early love between her and Charles is very affecting, and reminds us there was at one time, a love match.  What makes this book unsatisfying  is we already know the end, the princess dies without finding happiness.	2001-03-05
US	50442542	R3R7XKDVS9T703	0385729162	837706811	Bad Girls	Books	5	6	6	N	N	How can you grow up when your mom won't let you?	Being 10 has not been easy for Mandy White.  It's bad enough she has to waar her hair in braids and her mom picks out her clothes.  Now, Kim has emerged as the most popular girl in class, and has stolen Mandy's former best friend Sarah.  The only person who seems to care is Authur King, but a boy?  When an unfortunate and embarassing accident forces mandy to stay home for a few days, she notices a new girl in the neighborhood.  This girls doesn't have to wear baby clothes, she wears heels and shorts and cropped tops and has spikey hair and wears makeup.  The two girls form an unlikely friendship.  The combination of Mandy and Tanya provides  both girls with new insights, and strengths, and helps them face some of the challenges in their lives.  This is a great book for the pre-teen agegroup.	2001-03-04
US	50442542	R35MRI6NV5PHVX	0967851017	272095180	The Landlord	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A good first effort.  I hope more are forthcoming.	I came into posession of my copy of Ken Merrell's &quot;Landlord&quot; quite by accident.  a coworker, handed me an advanced reading copy, and said she knew I liked to review books, and she had told the author I would read this.  I am not  usually a mystery/suspense reader, but what the heck!  I was pleasantly surprised by the storyline of something gone terribly wrong in the small Utah town of Mapleton.  Don Rodriquez, newly released from prison is just trying to establish a new life, rebuild bonds with his daughter, Christina, and keep on the straight and narrow.  Unfortunately, the town is in the grip of terror, a serial killer is stalking, and killing young girls.  The police seem to be unable to find  the clues they need to find the culprit, almost as if the killer is always one step ahead.  The work of a dedicated K-9 officer Rick Stacey is stalled when he comes close to being killed.  And Don is forced to come face to face with the real threat to those he loves.  Landlord is a well-paced stoory that captures the feel of a small Utah town, and the forces of good and evil. There is a subplot that caused me a good bit of confusion, and distraction. Things are not always as they seem.  A very good first effort.	2001-02-23
US	50442542	R2MP2ZTR1MENFA	0060278226	191195555	Our Only May Amelia (Newbery Honor Book, 2000)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	May Amelia Jackson.. a miracle and a delight	Poor May Amelia Jackson is the only girl in her family.  That means putting up with seven brothers,and being told, &quot;You can't do this, you're a girl.&quot;. Her father is no help, in fact, she isn't sure he even likes her.  He is forever scolding her, and expressing his disappointment in her behavior.  May Amelia's mother is plumb worn out with the new baby on the way, and depends on May to help even more around the house.  May Amelia is even more determined to do the things she enjoys, and to find her place among the boisterous  Jackson clan.  This is a delightful historical-based story of one young girl's attempt to find the path right for her.  Based on thr  discovered diary of her grandaunt, Jennifer Holm crafts a sweet tale of a young girl's coming of age in the newly settled timber country of thr rugged Northwest.	2001-02-22
US	50442542	R2EPWQD6JO5Y0H	0151004005	120426480	The Women of Troy Hill: The Back-Fence Virtues of Faith and Friendship	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Lives well-lived	The Women of Troy Hill chronacles the lives of a group of women who have lived on Troy Hill, not far from Pittsburg for most , if not all their lives.  It follows family's immigration to this country, settling down, and the changing roles of women in America throughout the 1900's.  These women are strong, faith-filled and examples of lives well lived.  This is a delightful book, and a tribute to these wonderful women.	2001-02-22
US	50442542	R1AOWTGR1NOOR0	0679456988	319066326	Sunnyvale: The Rise and Fall of a Silicon Valley Family	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Melencholy in the land of sunshine.	The dissolution of his parent's marriage is the opening act of Jeff Goodell's book, Sunnyvale.  His mother appears to have grown weary of being married, and she not only divorces Jeff's father, she begins a job at the fledgling Apple computer company.  This sets a chain reaction in motion, Father is gone, just a melencholy bystander in his children's lives.  Jeff, starts to work at Apple, but not possessing the soul of a true geek,(and lacking the vision to realize how huge Apple will become) he leaves for adventure in Lake Tahoe.  His brother Jerry floats around hoping to break into the world of rock and roll, until snagged by sex and alcohol.  Youngest child, Jill, is sometimes overlooked in all the &quot;new lives&quot; being established, and defends herself with anger and despair.  This is a chronicle of their lives in the 70's and 80's.  Increased divorce rates, women in the work force, latchkey  children, redefined male roles,the introduction of the cyber age, the decreased importance on human performance, drugs, sex and rock and roll.  Behind the sunny promise of happiness and prosparity in the name Sunnyvale, lies a melencholy tale of a family unraveling and never completely mending.  Jeff Goodell is unflinching in his telling, and heartbreaking in his confusion and honesty.	2001-02-22
US	50442542	R3RA580N1U5HZK	0805065970	48240440	The Blood of Strangers: Stories from Emergency Medicine	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I would give it more stars if it was possible	Every once in awhile, you read a book that speaks the truth that you know.  The Blood of Strangers is such a book.  Written by Dr. Frank Huyler, it is a glimpse into the world of emergency medecine.  What sets it apart from that genre is the eloquence of the writer.  He bestows a humanity upon the ill and injured and those who provide their care.  It is not based on adrenelized stories of &quot;can you top this?'.  It is a careful accounting of  medicine  given as a service, of the empathy, the fear, the disillusionment, the hope, the constant vigil to heal and the price extracted from those who administer it.  This should be a must read for anyone entering any field of medecine.  And those of us already in the field, it is a reminder of why we do  what we do.  A remarkable book that cannot be put down or forgotten.	2001-02-22
US	50442542	R1GI9826H3RK5U	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The difinitive book on the Johnstown Flood	Meticulously researched and written, The Johnstown Flood is not only a book about the horrific disaster, but a richly crafted piece of social history.  David McCullough delves into the social changes, the newly rich upper class, the immigrants striving to survive and the new middle classes.  It also is a story of early modern engineering's hubris and the unwillingness of men to see their mistakes.  McCullough weaves these themes  and the lives of everyday people into a compelling story of the eventual destruction of Johnstown.  The accounts of the flood are gripping, graphic and heartrending.  I first read this when I was 10 and it was included in a Reader's Digest Condensed Books.  I recently purchased it, after having reread it several times( the last time in preperation for reading a fictionalized account of the people of Johnstown).  This is the definitive Johnstown book.	2001-02-20
US	50442542	R139KR63PB4G38	0374165378	226907048	In Sunlight, in a Beautiful Garden	Books	1	7	15	N	N	A Disappointment	Let's face it, when writing bout the Johnstown flood, the flood is the focal point.  The attempt to develop fictional characters, and involve us in their pre-flood lives, falls flat.  The characters are muddled and  their interaction sterile.  You just don't care.  There is barely a mention of the dam and leaks and any threat of flood.	2001-02-20
US	50442542	R39DJAPEZVVR38	1574410792	277903028	A Place Called Sweet Shrub (Lucinda Richards Trilogy)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lucy Richard's story continues	It has been three years since Lucy Richards returned from Estelline.  Taking over the family hardware store and caring for family has taken her mind off her sister's betrayal and the man she had planned to marry, perhaps too well.  Lucy feels that she may be too comfortable, and that life in Bonham may not hold much for her.  When Josh Arnold visits Lucy on his way to Sweet Shrub, Arkansas(where he is to read law) he makes it clear in no uncertain terms that he is still interested in Lucy, and that he won't take no for an answer. Lucy discovery that her heart is once again willing to trust combined with Josh's insistance and  the impending visit of Lucy's sister and former fiancee, propells Lucy to accept his proposal.  Together they move to Sweet Shrub.  Just as she had faced change and adversity when she left home to teach, Lucy is faced with a whole new life to claim.  She is faced by the prejudices and fears of the townfolk, and must turn to Josh and an inner strength she did not realize she had to survive.  This is the second in three books, and is told in a very different way than the first.  The author is very skillful in including the events of the early 1900's, impending world war, friction between races and small town dynamics to weave a wonderful story of life in Texas.	2001-02-19
US	50442542	RHHM51G65BW8J	0064472078	972676639	Seedfolks	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Be not Solitary / Be not Idle	A young girl living in the inner city in Cleveland goes out to a nearby vacant lot and plants a handful of beans.  Others observe her, never talking, and a chain reaction starts. This seemingly small act is a catalyst for neighbors to look at themselves, their neighborhood, their neighbors and to reach out  This is a gentle fable for our times, a story of how the smallest, most humble act can reach out like a wandering vine and touch many lives.	2001-02-18
US	50442542	RQBA342ADPHF8	0375411275	367665573	Pobby and Dingan	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Can you believe in something you can't see?	Ashmol Williamson has had it with his younger sister, Kellyanne.  She insists that her imagionary friends, Pobby and Dingan are real, and Ashmol thinks she is a fruit loop.  What's worse, his parents ans others sometimes indulge this nonsense.  One day their dad forgets to bring Pobby and Dingan home after a day in the family's opal mine.  Poor Kellyanne is heartbroken, and soon sick with grief. Ashmol has to find a way to mend his sister's broken heart.  What follows is a tender story of love and acceptance and the magic that we sometimes glimpse in our lives.  A wonderful story.	2001-02-18
US	50442542	R2734DCQYD4TKN	0767903242	360172180	Managing Ignatius: The Lunacy of Lucky Dogs and Life in New Orleans	Books	4	1	4	N	N	It's a vendors's life for me	Jerry E. Strahan has seen it all.  As a long time manager of Lucky Dogs, a New Orleans institution, he has witnessed the daily (and nightly) life of New Orleans' French Quarter.  Daily he manages to put together a crew from the ecletic souls that wander in and out of Lucky Dogs' warehouse.  These people are the nucleus of a freewheeling account of life in the Quarter and the life of a Lucky Dog man.  Told with a real affection for New Orleans and al those he has worked with, Strahan is a wonderful observer of both people and time.  He manages to be straightforward, without stripping his characters of their humanity.  A real treat...although I'd rather have a Lucky Dog any day.	2001-02-18
US	50442542	R25G0QWX9WP9RK	1574410784	324237869	The Train to Estelline (Lucinda Richards Trilogy)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The voice of Lucinda Richards rings true	Lucinda Richards has accepted the job of teaching in Estelline, Texas though not even 18 years old.  She leaves all that is familiar and comfortable and begins a new life in West Texas.  The story is conveyed in letters to loved ones back home and diary entries.  It details the life of a young woman in 1911, facing the changes that come both in her life, and to the lives of the people she comes to care for and love. It is the details that ring true, the differences in stations in society, the hardships faced by families, and the expectations on a young , single woman.  I think this would be a great book for a mother-daughter bookclub to read.	2001-02-17
US	50442542	R3UUOULHO6ME03	0385416679	745767214	A Southern Belle Primer: Why Princess Margaret Will Never Be a Kappa Kappa Gamma	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Truth hits the funnybone	Being a Southern Belle is not for the faint hearted. There is a plethora of rules, spoken and unspoken that govern daily life.  This is a humor book, but this  humor hits a bit close to the bone.  From big hair, silver patterns, sorority choices, wedding planning, finger bowls, Junior League and choosing a place to live, the true Southern Belle must be very discerning.  This is a great gift to give to any southern expatriate or anyone who longs to be a Southern Belle.	2001-02-17
US	50442542	R243GGU8ZCA4RS	0312262701	715550094	While Innocents Slept:  A Story of Revenge, Murder, and SIDS	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The face of evil is bland.	The face of evil in this story is so ordinary and bland that it chills the heart. While Innocents Slept is the tale of a father accused of mudering two infant children as they slept.  Unfortunately, the writing is a bit scattered and the story is uneven. That makes this book very hard to follow and unrewarding to read.	2001-02-16
US	50442542	R2RZYVKNCEQ193	0385325916	117458910	The Ink Drinker	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A booklover's delight...no matter the age.	Those who love books often describe their reactions to books in physical terms.  This is the story of a being that must literally drink up words to sustain life.  Poor Odilon cannot stand books.  the fact his father owns a bookstore, loves books and can't understand why Odilon hates to read makes it worse.  One day, while being pressed (forced) into helping his father, Odilon spies a creature that is slipping through the book stacks. What follows is a twist on the classic horror story.  Without giving away the end too much, my only disappointment is the residence of the creature...too cliche.  I wish he had resided in the old and rare books vault in a creepy basement somewhere.  Nevertheless, a  delightful book.	2001-02-14
US	50442542	R3LI8RT3YWCXF1	0375503064	94745060	The Clothes They Stood Up In	Books	5	74	75	N	N	Who would You Be?	Poor Maurice and Rosemary Ransome return home from the opera and discover their flat has been burglarized and everything has been taken. The dinner that was left warming in the oven, the furniture, the telephones even the toilet paper has been taken.  After trying to convey the thouroughness of the robbery to the police (in an uncomfortable public phone booth , no less) Mr. Ransome returns to his empty house to wait with his wife...while waiting he notices not only the drapes but the curtain rings are gone!  This slender British novel wittily and adeptly poses the question &quot; What would you do, Who would you be, if everything was taken?&quot;.  The Ransomes deal with the police (who proffer no hope of recovering their gear), the insurance company (however, EVERYTHING is gone, including the copy of their insurance policy) and wait for some semblance of normal to be restored in their lives.  A few creature comforts are obtained to replace the many and then the tale takes a remarkable turn.  This is a delightful tale, full of humor and with remarkable insight on people and their possessions.  I have given my first copy away and have already reread the replacement book!  A must have.	2001-02-14
US	50442542	R3PJ4CAMVPY7LA	1573458589	57628098	4: Personal Illuminations: Illumination (Personal Illuminations)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A delight!	I don't know if it is the illustration of the haughty princess on the cover, or the quotes and prompts in this journal that make it my favorite of the four Christensen softcover journals.  It is the book that triggered the most personal introspection.  The book is filled with whimsey and inspiration and is a delight to keep on hand.  This is a must have (or must give)for anyone who loves art and journal keeping.	2001-02-12
US	50442542	R2EQOUOG95D8CE	157345866X	943427376	Personal Illuminations Journal (Personal Illuminations)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A book of her own	Living in Utah, I have become accustomed to seeing James Christensen's art all about me.  When I stumbled on this journal, it gave me a chance to combine two of my passions, his art and journal keeping.  This hardbound book is just the place to record innermost thoughts.  Accompanied,sometimes stimulated, by whimsical illustrations, my thoughts find  a home on the pages.  The binding is sturdy (but not ungainly looking), and the pages are of good quality paper...very important for a book that gets daily use. A journal to keep and savor.	2001-02-12
US	50442542	R1X1YMRZ4RB5YQ	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A family tale with a true voice	Viola price is the matriarch of a fairly typical family. Now that the children are grown and moved away, husband Cecil has left her in search of lost youth.  Her only son Lewis  is the family scapegoat, always in trouble, not living up to his potential.  Paris, the first-born is trying to be the perfect one, while Janelle is trying to devine her place in the world, and Charlotte is just plain mad for being overlooked all these years. As it has been all her mothering life, Viola knows that she doesn't have enough time or energy or money, and heavens knows she can't make her children's lives better.  If anything, Viola's plainspokeness has made it even harder for her to reach her children.  Each family member is struggling to cope with their own life, and their worries about their mother and her asthma.  It is an acute asthma attack that first brings this family back together, and sets in motion the events that shake them out of their comfort zones.  Terry McMillan has written an energetic tale of family life.  It is a compelling read, very character driven and each character has a distinct voice.  It is a tale of the bonds that tie families together and the love that can't fix everything, but can make a life worth living.	2001-02-11
US	50442542	R35CY152OMY5CH	0446526622	491344326	Buster's Diaries: The True Story of a Dog and His Man	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A dog's eye view	Poor Buster sprang to public infamy in 1996 when he was accused of wantonly killing a goose in St. James' Park.  Unbenownest to Buster or his &quot;man&quot; the goose was under the royal protection of the Queen...and Buster's future is in danger. The following media circus leaves one to wonder who the animals really are.  However, Buster has found his way into the hearts of the common public. Covering the time when he first remembers leaving the protection of family, and hearth; through various homes and care societies, Buster keeps a keen eye on man and his foiables.  He details the delicate dance between a dog and his owner. He is wary and more than a bit amused by some of the training techniques foisted upon him. It is his good nature that carries the book. While  reminding the reader that he is but a few steps from a wolf, Buster discovers the delights of having a home.  This is a delightful little book, written with a wry sense of the ironic.	2001-02-10
US	50442542	RI46N1YWMSMYE	0440204682	307495349	The Children's Story	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Clavell has a point to make, and makes it well....	I approached The Children's Story with a bit of trepidation and cynicism.  The friend who reccommended it said it was &quot;powerful&quot; and when a coworker saw it ,she said it had changed her life.  Quite a burdon to put on the slim volume I held in my hands.  It reads like the cautionary fable of the cold war....a new power comes to town and methodically challenges and strips away all beliefs of the town's children.  The messenger is pretty and pleasant, the messege is palatable, even believable.  And so all the children get led down the path.....I read this with the voice of Johnny, one of the children ringing in my head...a small quiet voice of  distrust, of sensing open manipulation.  Which is Clavell's point.  A short, well crafted fable with vivid imagery and real emotional flashpoints.  I hate being manipulated, so one star off.	2001-01-30
US	50442542	R1UVXBEXOZERP1	0684825821	853779423	On Her Own Ground: The Life and Times of Madam C.J. Walker	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A compelling portrait of an American pioneer	On Her Own Ground details the life story of Madame C.J. Walker, best known for developing a line of hair care products.  To know her only for this accomplishment would be short sighted, indeed.  Born to slaves, Sarah Breedlove (her given name) was orphaned by age 7, married by age 14 and widowed with a small daughter by age 20. She was one of many women who took in washing to earn a living and to support her daughter.  She began to experiment with hair salves when she noticed her hair was breaking and falling out.  Tapping into a common problem for black women of the time, she began to produce and sell her discovery.  This is also the story of a woman who was in the forefront of black educational  and political movements of the early 1900's. She was friends (and sometimes adversaries) with many of the well known names of the time,including  Booker T. Washington,Mary McLeod Bethune,and W.E.B DuBois. and a force behind providing educational and employment opportunities for African American women.  Her daughter , who also helped run the family business was at the forefront of the Harlem Reniassance. Working against the prejudice of not only her race, but her sex, she built a family industry that exisits today ( although no longer in family hands).She built a home among the most wealthy of the time and enjoyed an income  comprabable to any white, male executive of the time.  A'Lelia Bundles has skillfully woven a complex portrait of a woman who shaped marketing techniques still used universally today.  Using a wealth of family material (Bundles is the great-great granddaughter of Madam Walker)as well  as other well documented sources, the author opens the door to a vibrant time in Black history, provides a  historical context to help explain  and compliment this amazing woman and tells a story so compelling that this is a hard book to put down.	2001-01-29
US	50442542	R2UIXYNKSZW1KZ	0882822039	654848883	Deadly Deception: A True Story of Duplicity, Greed, Dangerous Passions and One Woman's Courage	Books	1	2	3	N	N	The heroine gets the stars....none for the writing	The true life story of Brenda Gunn, who just wants to be happy.  When Glen enters her life, it is as if all her dreams comes true.  What follows is a tangled web of deceit, deception and ultimately dispair.  The story could be chilling...but the writing style is so over the top that it distracts the reader.  The writing is more like a trashy romance novel, which  obscures the true life aspects of the story.  Brenda Gunn's story deserves a better telling...I beg to disagree with a previous reviewer, this story would  benifit from a detached viewpoint.  I am giving it one star in honor of Brenda's bravery, without her it would get no stars.	2001-01-11
US	50442542	R3BS39T9L20IE	0805038647	332682680	Beer and Circus: How Big-Time College Sports Has Crippled Undergraduate Education	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The downfall of undergraduate education	Follow the money trail, this book convincingly argues that colleges and universities have pushed aside undergraduate education to court big money research grants and money making athletics.  Murray Sperber presents and substantiates the argument that undergraduate students are getting the short end of the stick when it comes to academics.  Schools and outside parties are selling the first four years of college as an experience..crammed full with extracuriccular activities, and an undeniable emphasis on drinking and partying.  Academic pursuits are not a priority and those who are dogged in their pursuit to excell academically,  do not fit in with the general student population.  I had hoped that Mr. Sperber would have included more of his experiences at Indiana where he was a vocal opponant of Bobby Knight and the sports at all cost mentality.  A thoughtful look of the state of higher education today.	2001-01-08
US	50442542	R1OLC94X3RROXA	1565122755	364130218	Sugar Pie and Jelly Roll: Sweets from a Southern Kitchen	Books	4	6	7	N	N	True southern sweets	You cannot grow up in the south without being called &quot;sweetie pie&quot;, &quot;honey&quot; or &quot;sweet pea&quot; or any derivitive thereof.  Sweetie Pie and Jelly Roll combines this time honored tradition with a cookbook of favorite southern sweets.  Interspersed between the recipes are memories of southern life.  I think my favorite cook books are those that combine good food with good storytelling.  The recipes cover candies, crumbles, pies (Peace Pie is a favorite), cakes, desserts, puddings (real cooked puddings...yummy) and sauces.  You cannot pass up trying Christmas Orange Cake, Shoofly Pie, and Peannut Brittle ...all very easy and wonderful to eat.  The watercolor illustrations enhance a very delightful book.	2001-01-08
US	50442542	R2A6L4SW9QEZSR	0061098426	620622652	The Season: The Secret Life of Palm Beach and America's Richest Society	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Why do I do this to myself?	I enjoy a good &quot;dish&quot; as much as the next gossip...but this is too much!  The cloistered world of Palm Beach, when exposed to the light is small, petty, ignorant, and old, very old. Ronald Kessler perports to have written an expose on the FBI...and clsims this is an investigational book.....BAH!  Let Palm Beach remain to itself......this book is a colossal waste of time, poorly written, cloying, and basically the author saying  &quot;look at me, I hang out with the rich and disfunctional&quot;.  A waste of paper.	2001-01-08
US	50442542	R33DO2D54YQPM1	0679449833	856878841	Reunion: The Girls We Used to Be, the Women We Became	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Coming of age in the 70's	Reunion  documents the lives of 10 members of the class of 1968 at the Brearley School in New York City.  Each of the young women had the &quot;advantage&quot; of an elite education and the amenities of an upper class life.  Each takes a decidedly different path...some encountering the sex and drugs so prevelent of the times. Marriages are entered into and ended. Some women have children, some choose careers, some wander from thing to thing.  All seem to have to deal with families that are imperfect, from benignly so to worse.  One member of the class commits suicide, all are touched in some way.  Most are struggling with issues of self confidence and direction. This is the era when emotional issues are not talked about, and many turn to therapy. The stories are not really in depth and do not draw you in.  I guess I measure every &quot;what ever happened&quot; type book to Goatbrothers, one of the best books of that type ever written.  The stories are interesting but not compelling, which is in no way a comment on the women themselves.	2000-12-30
US	50442542	R3JNFJ4SK6MTIR	0671042556	770761988	Blackbird: A Childhood Lost and Found	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unflinchingly honest and heartbreakingly beautiful	Spanning a scant six years of Jennifer Lauck's life, Blackbird is a emotionally compelling memoir.  Young Jennifer's world is controlled by her young mother's terminal illness and her father's  workaholic tendenancies.  Trying to seize any control that a six year old can grab, Jennifer strives to be the catetaker of her mother and the daughter her father wants. Her only friend is a childless woman who notices the lonely child and invites her in and befriends her.  Her brother B.J. is also struggling to keep his head above water, his coping skills are marked by anger and cruelty towards his sister. The passages in which Jennifer describes her mother and father are so tender and descriptive that you feel the child's longing to please.  After her mother's death, Jennifer's father moves in with Deb (who he had been seeing for some time) and her children.  There is an uneasy alliance among the children,and Jennifer retreats.  Her father is less and less available, trying to please a demanding (and slightly unstable) Deb, and trying to keep up with increasing expectations and debt. The 70's are in full bloom in Southern California and there are many changes to cope with, and no one to talk to. Soon, Jennifer's life is ripped apart again, and what follows is the two and a half year oddesy of a child in the grip of forces that she cannot escape.  There are those along the way who nuture the child, and who try to help, but Jennifer is forced to develop coping skills far beyond her young age.  I had to keep reminding myself as I read, that this was just a child. The book ends with Jennifer and her brother being rescued by relatives when she is just 11.  The people who reached out to nuture the lonely child, and the angry, yet bright resiliance of Jennifer are the saving grace of this part of her life.  The story will grab you  and you will be hard pressed to lay this book aside.  One of the very best books of the recent years.	2000-12-30
US	50442542	R3VF0MTPD0MLL5	0312185790	230313333	Gin Lane: A Novel of Southampton (Beecher Stowe and Lady Alex Dunraven Novels)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	I really wanted to like this book.	Fresh off reading A Hampton's Christmas, I wanted to like Gin Lane.  I enjoy James Brady's mixing of the well-known and the fictional and have not found so likeable character as Beecher Stowe IV in a long time.  And it is fun to try to place a name on the characters you should know, but their real names aren't being used.  This was definitely a step above The House That Ate the Hamptons and its &quot;credits&quot; (including Lady Alix's nipple ring) on the inside printer's page.  This book lacked the soul of the Hampoton's christmas book, and was a pleasant diversion, but not as good as I had hoped.	2000-12-27
US	50442542	R3L4XOM78CD723	0312971206	278062256	The House That Ate the Hamptons: A Novel of Lily Pond Lane	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A bit over the top	The House that Ate the Hamptons sparked memories of past housbuilding uproars in the tony Hamptons.....well chronicled in the newspapers' Style sections and the upscale magazines.  James Brady once again mixes the famous and the veiled famous and the made up famous (how can you resist Howard Roark from The Fountainhead) mix with the real citizens of the Hamptons.  Beecher Stowe VI returns and becomes embrioled in the mystery house being built by an unknown person.  The house threatens to be everything the established members of all ranges of Hampton's society hate.  And there are mysterious forces at work and an unexpected visit from the president.  I have to be honest...I was put off by the opening &quot;credits&quot; listing everything from Beecher's clothing to Lady Alix's gold nipple ring.  It seemed to smack of everything that established Hamptons  residents find bad taste.  Thiscould be an engaging story, but it gets bogged down in name dropping and side stories.	2000-12-27
US	50442542	R1OXCDL8QC2OIA	0385500866	565005229	Crowns: Portraits of Black Women in Church Hats	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A feast for both the eyes and soul	&quot;I going to meet the King, I must look my best&quot;....Crowns is a celebration of women of color and the hats they wear to church. Back when, &quot;when a woman got her feet under her, then she bought a hat&quot;.  This is a testiment of faith and joy.  featuring women of all ages and backgrounds, it features the women wearing their favorite hats and then a page or so of their comments.  Many stories are told of the first hat, and of family sacrifice so the woman of the house could have proper church wear. This is a celebration of faith and joy....and a balm to this southerner, removed to a land where hats are not worn.....a true delight.	2000-12-27
US	50442542	R2CU31EDWLH60Q	0688171478	663888544	Friendship Cake: A Novel	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The best kind of simple	As the members of the Cookbook Committee of the Hope Springs Community Church gather to0 collect and sort recipes for a cookbook, they also bring their life experiences and hopes and burdens.  Five very different women begin to form a bond of friendship, and that bond is tested by the daily trials of life.  One by one they come to terms with pieces of their lives and realize they are not alone, and do not have to face life's difficulties alone.  This is a tender book that helps to answer one of the pressing questions almost everyone asks at one time or another....am I alone?  All kinds of difficulties abound, an unplanned pregnancy, the end of life, illness, rediscovered love, even the uneasy relationship between people who are different.  All five women face these tests with humor and tenacity.....and carry the others along.  Thw simple sweetness of this book will linger long after the pages are closed. P.S.  The recipes interspersed throughout the book are pure southern cooking, the only thing missing is a really good biscuit recipe!	2000-12-15
US	50442542	R2AA1QWWMH62IA	0375501886	535618685	Without Reservations: The Travels of an Independent Woman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is a great moment,.. you see the goal of your wandering	Leaving behind her two adult sons, her cats and her job at the Baltimore Sun, Alice Steinbach sets out to discover the Europe she knew 20 years ago.  She also sets off on a voyage of self discovery.  Traveling through Paris, London, and parts of Italy, she discovers the adventure of being free of of a job or home responsibilities.  She also meets a cast of engaging characters in her fellow travelers.  Told with an educated eye of a seasoned reporter, she captures all the tiny details of life in the various countries.  The rhythms of life, the food, the smells , the lay of the land.  This is a captivating story of self discovery and a tale of living life, not just filling it with it with things to do.	2000-12-10
US	50442542	RWGN2ME9FH41L	0312266049	664876424	A Hamptons Christmas	Books	4	2	3	N	N	And a little child shall lead them...	When Beecher Stowe returns to the family home in the Hamptons to celebrate Christmas, little does he know his life will be turned upside down.  It's not the arrival of his on-again, off-again lover Lady Alix Dunraven, nor the realization that his father, the Admiral, is beginning to slip just a wee bit....it is the small girl who arrives alone, and who captures his attention at the local bar.  Young &quot;Susannah&quot; (one of her many names) arrives with a purse full of money, a platinum charge card, no visible adults to care for her, and the hope to enjoy a real Christmas,  just like the one she has seen in Martha Stewart's magazine.  The is also another purpose for her visit, one that has close ties with the Hampton community.  Beecherand his family, various townspeople, and an assorted cast of characters set out to provide this 10 year old girl with a real Christmas, in spite of the fierce divorce being waged by her jet-set parents and their underhanded way of dealing with their only child.  In the end, this young girl helps enrich the lives of the locals of the Hamptons {there is much disdain expressed for the come-lately new money, such as Puff Daddy, and the Perlmans}and mend a misunderstanding that threatens to tear the town apart.  James Brady has managed to weave an engaging tale that combines the present, the names we all associate with the high life of the Hamptons, and the whimsy of a young girl discovering Christmas.  A real christmas treat.	2000-12-09
US	50442542	R3QJM5K51UNX13	0745171672	196912840	Dublin 4 (New Portway Large Print Books)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Vintage Binchey	This collection of short stories is Maeve Binchy at her best.  Comprised of tales of various residents of Dublin, the betrayed housewife, the young girl on her own, or the older single girl embarking on losing her virginity....Binchey manages to weave an  engaging tapestry of life.  The stories move at a quick pace, are character driven and leave you wanting to know more about the people and how their lives continued...a great book to read and reread.	2000-12-07
US	50442542	RNVBCP7A4P6ZM	0099218216	856454517	'VICTORIA LINE, CENTRAL LINE' [Paperback]	Books	5	126	128	N	N	A glimpse into London and human nature	I really enjoyed this collection of short stories. Often I would stop reading and think to myself, &quot;Why is this so familiar?&quot;.  This book was actually published in the US under the title London Transport....and I had read it!  In this collection Maeve Binchy looks into the lives of the many people who come and go on London's underground every day.  This book offers up a wonderful cross section of society and engaging characters.  Binchey is at her best describing people and their frailities.  There are no clear cut heros or villians, rather the people are infused with a humanity and humor that carry you along.  If you're a Binchy fan this is a must add to your colection (unless you already have London Transport).  A treat to read and to reread.	2000-12-06
US	50442542	R2NFFUAVX5XLRH	038533320X	750100394	Rocket Boys: A Memoir (The Coalwood Series #1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A must read memoir	Rocket Boys is the story of Homer Hickam, a 14 year old boy in Coalwood, west Virginia.  Coalwood is a mining town, and Homer's dad is the superintendent of mines, a company man.  The small, insular community is not a place for dreamers, as Homer's mother has discovered, but she encourages Homer when Sputnik I sparks his curosity.  As his love for rockets grows he assembles a small group of friends and names the motley crew the Big Creek Missile Agency.  Together, they set out to build a rocket that will fly, and in the process earn the grudging respect of many of their peers.  But there is conflict at home, Homer's father hopes Homer will be an engineer and join him in the mine, and his older brother Jim is too busy being the football star and planning his escape on a college scholarship.This is a wonderful story of a young man following his dream and being too naive to believe it cannot come true.  Powering his rockets with a mix of powder and moonshine, Homer not only gets his rockets to fly, he gains an entry to the national science fair.  This is a wonderful story, told with a keen eye to the personalities that pooulate Coalville.  At its heart it is a story of a young man coming of age in a changing world.	2000-11-29
US	50442542	R1QELLKA8ZQ717	0385335164	429647186	The Coalwood Way (The Coalwood Series #2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The story continues...and gets better	Homer Hickam has found his niche in Coalwood, as a member of the Big Creek Missile Agency, the Rocket Boys as they are known.  Now a high school senior, he has come more into his own, his older brother Jim, away at college on a football scholarship.  With only Homer and his parents at home, the subtle tensions of their lives take on more energy.  Homer's mom, a dreamer like him, has to come to terms with small town life, being a company man's wife,and her unfulfilled dreams .  His father, the mine superintendent, has to learn new mining techniques, deal with the union dissention and find some common ground with his son, who has absolutely no interest in mining.  Jim discovers that college life is more challenging than high school.  The mining company is leaning on the superintendent to make cuts, and Coalwood and the neighboring areas are suffering financial hardships like never before.  In the midst of this all, Homer continues his quest to build a better rocket, and to some day make it to Cape Canaveral.  But he and his friends also deal with the every day trivals of growing up, family disappointments, girls, the realization of both the good and bead people can do to each other, and the doubts that lie within.  This is a sequel that is the equal of the first book...a delight to read.  I hope there are more books to follow.	2000-11-29
US	50442542	R3EJ85Q3PUDTXU	0553801821	208460173	The Man Who Ate the 747	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A book to be devoured	The Man Who Ate the 747 tells the quirky tale of Wally Chubb who undertakes the title's improbable task for the love of a woman.  Once J.J. Smith, who works for The Book of Records, gets wind of this he sets out to see for himself, and hopefully to verify a record for his book.  Willa Wyatt, the focus of affection, is worried that J.J. and the subsequent hoard of media will spoil the serene life of Superior, Nebraska.  Thus unfolds the whimsical tale of what a man will do for love and how people care for one another.  It does require some suspension of logic, but has a sweetness that will stay with you.	2000-11-27
US	50442542	R1J1S6CL45EK7G	0375403493	153123734	Which Lie Did I Tell?: More Adventures in the Screen Trade	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Part memoir, part instruction book	This book would be invaluable for anyone thinking of trying to earn a living as a screenwriter. Opening with Goldman's recolections of his pariah status in the early 80's, it follows his return to writing books and screenplays (Maverick, Misery, Absolute Power).  I did not realize that he had also written the book, on which the Princess Bride was based, and it was very revealing the process he took to produce that book.  Be forwarned, he is very caustic and sarcastic at times, but it is tempered with real insight.  He also includes snipets of his work...as written, and gives unlimited advice to anyone who would want to follow in his footprints.  The final section is almost a master class of writing, he provides a screenplay, and comments from various well known writers.  I enjoyed the memoir and the honesty.	2000-11-25
US	50442542	R1N2OY48OJXFKY	0446526835	554545837	Counting Coup: A True Story of Basketball and Honor on the Little Big Horn	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Basketball and life on the Little Big Horn	Larry Colton travels into Montana's Crow country in pursuit of a story of how young men on the reservation (the rez) are using basketball as a way to regain hope and honor.  A chance sighting of a graceful and instinctive female player in a pickup game changes all that.  After seeing Sharon LaForge, Colton switches the focus of his quest and becomes a shadow of the Hardin High Lady Bulldogs, in their quest to make it to the Montana high school championships.  He is allowed unlmited access to the team, their practices, invited into some of their homes, tutored by some of the locals in the ways of the rez, and the delicate relationships between whites and Indians.  This is a glimpse into a world I have not known much about.  With unemployment, alcoholism, physical abuse as the norm, it is easy to see how a community can pin its hopes for redemption and validation on the slim shouldres of high school girls....and Sharon's family is expecting victory to redeem them from tragedy and scandal.  Counting Coup is at its heart a great sports story, it reminded me of the documentary Hoop Dreams.  It gives an honest and compassionate look at high school athletics, those who play, those who coach, those who watch and all those who pin their dreams on victory.  It also is the story of a young girl trying to find her place in her world, and the dreams claimed and lost along the way.	2000-11-25
US	50442542	R2IDP9LZJ0HMJJ	0385498330	270330581	First and Last Seasons: A Father, A Son, and Sunday Afternoon Football	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Can you go home again?	Dan McGraw returns to his hometown to write about the return of a Cleveland Browns team.  Somewhat a prodigal son, he also returns to a father dying of cancer.  This is the anti-Morrie book, the story of a father and son who didn't ever seem to remain on common ground for long, and their coming to grips with death and their differences.  It is not a feel good book, it is filled with depression, fear, profanity, pain, drinking and self examination seems to be closer to self-loathing at times.  It is the story of a father and son and the differences that could completely tear them apart, and the compassion and struggle that binds them.  It is an honest book, the feelings expressed by McGraw about seeing his father laid out for the wake and the confusion, relief and anger that accompany the grief of death ring true.  Paralell to this story is the story of the Browns struggle to reestablish their place in pro football...not a pretty sight.	2000-11-25
US	50442542	R3UXMFP25C3QHI	0525945938	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Maeve Binchey at her best	Scarlet Feather is Maeve Binchey at her best.  Following the lives of several residents in modern day Dublin and their various involvement with the Scarlet Feather catering business.  Friends from school days, Tom and Cathy have invested their all in the catering business.....but friends, family, lovers, and the odd abandoned child or two, have a way of getting involved.  This is Maeve Binchey at her best, weaving the everyday lives of various people of all classes and interest, into a seamless story.  The language and the dialog ring true and carry the story along.  The characters are allowed to be themselves,their  good and bad characteristics and all their human frailties included.  The story is character driven, and moves along at a good clip.  Even though it is over 500 pages, it is a fast read, one you don't want to put down.  Sadly, Ms. Binchey has announced this is her last novel.  I, for one will miss her, and have added this book to my collection to read and reread.  It was worth figuring out the monetary conversion to order this from amazon,uk.	2000-11-24
US	50442542	R1HXOJ2MMNILSI	0064430502	764919309	Baby, Come Out!	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Just the gift to give the friend who's expecting...	It is a crime that Baby Come Out has been allowed to go out of print.  This delightful book tells the story of the baby who has decided not to come out, not to be born.....just stay where she is(many of my pregnant friends tell me they suspect their babies are planning the same thing). When baby declares she is not coming out, the entire family pitches in to try to entice the baby to come out, to no avail.  The illustrations are the heart of this  book, the baby in her mother's tummy... trying to express herself. This is a wonderful book to read to the brother or sister to be, an engaging children's book with heart and a sense of humor.  The story is involving and sweet and has a delightful resolution. This book is a must give to any pregnant friends nearing their due date.  This is a gem of a book and should be reissued.	2000-11-22
US	50442542	R2JDV2OU4K193B	0802774873	302692270	Mud Pies and Other Recipes: A Cookbook for Dolls	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Still enchanting after 30 years	This was my favorite book while I was growing up.  I would check this out from the Grand Prairie Public Library and head to the backyard with book in hand.  Using pots and pans and cans and whatever I could scrounge, I would assemble the recipes, Sand Torte being a favorite.  Although this was written for children, the magic still holds.  Written in easy to read and imagination engaging language, this inspires the reader to try the recepies and to let their imagination soar.  Delightful ink illustrations and witty writing makes this enjoyable reading into adulthood....a bonus, I found my new copy in the cookbook section of my local bookstore.  A classic for the child in all of us.	2000-11-22
US	50442542	R26R2ZW2ZRCE3Q	0670892742	232409532	Cherry: A Memoir	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Nothing better than a smart &quot;bad girl&quot;	This book is like sitting and listening to your friend's &quot;fast&quot; big sister spill the details of her last weekend. You hang on every word, half apalled, half entranced....would you, could you?  Mary Karr has given voice to life in small town Texas in the late 60's and early 70's.  We all thought we were destined for something other than small town life.  Meandering into casual drug use,  slipping into casual sex, and the constant battle to find something &quot;more&quot;.  The language is clear and true and unsparing and alive.  This was a worthy folowup to &quot;Liars' Club&quot; the memior focused more on the younger years of Karr, and the havoc wrecked by her parent's alcohol abuse.  As Karr grows older, her parents as less in the story, a telling example of her ability to survive and to move away from dependence on them...and to somehow block or ignore their chaotic interference in her life.  This is a great book.	2000-11-21
US	50442542	R2P7LYH7ZPPB1O	0316199648	237095446	Jim the Boy: A Novel	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Must Read	Jim the Boy follows young Jim Glass throughout the year following his 10th birthday.  The son of a man who died before he was born, Jim is living with his mother and under the care of his unmarried uncles.  He moves about Aliceville, North Carolina as he begins to expand his world, a new school and  new friends,athe first baseball glove and a chance &quot;encounter&quot; with Ty Cobb.  He also is more aware of his family, beginning to look at them, seeing the struggle his mother has with raising a son on her own, his uncles gentle understanding (and their lives outside their care of him) and a expanding knowledge of his father's childhood up in the hills.  There are also glimpses of the depression, the social strata, and the expansion of technology into small town life.  The characters are all well drwan,and believable, true to the small town roots without being cloying or condensending.  I think this is a book for all ages, a true treasure.	2000-11-14
US	50442542	R25WRHABB1NC89	0312244266	997866733	Winter Solstice	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A winter delight	This book reminds me what drew me to reading in the first place.  It is a enthralling story, character driven.  Rosamunde Pilcher has assembled a group of people from school age to retirement and put them together and sketched their lives up the point they all come together. The seperate stories entwine nicely and do not seem contrived.  the characters are likeable and very real.  The story draws you along and you find you really care about these people.  The only other Pilcher book I have read is the Shell Seekers...equally captivating.  This is a book that will brighten the gloomier winter days. A real treasure.	2000-11-13
US	50442542	R6BE92UAU61ZZ	0061015458	424782742	Shadows Of A Princess: An Intimate Account by Her Private Secretary	Books	1	21	27	N	N	Would give it less stars if possible	I admit it.  I had been swept up in the whole Princess Diana thing....had a shelf full of books, including several purchased in England. I loved reading about her life, loved the images of the young, happy wife and mother. I too, was surprised, and a bit ashamed when it all came out...  Her unhappiness, her wretched marriage, her struggles with eating disorders and depression....as if my inquisitiveness had contributed to her woe.  My appitite for books about her waned, and I watched as she struggled to make her own life.  And no longer did I buy the seemingly endless parade of books claiming to detail her life.  Just when you think nothing else can be written...along comes &quot;Shadows of a Princess&quot; written by her former private secretary. Enough! He tells his story of the struggling princess...along with continuous interjections on how he tried to steer her right, tried to save the royal image...blah, blah, blah.  It is much like sitting next to your busy body aunt who not only knows what is best for everybody else &quot;if only they would listen&quot;.  This book focuses on the worst, the opening story pretty much sets the tone of the book and the level of the material. The poor writing and the neverending yammering is relentless.  This book is small and mean-spirited. This is the worst book I have read this year........the worst.	2000-11-07
US	50442542	R1EH0RNUEGU267	0609606727	574254744	Julie and Romeo: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Kept me smiling long after	When love strikes Julie Roseman and Romeo Cacciamani it hits hard.  And years of rivalry between their respective florist shops and families does not make the going smooth.  This is a delightful and fast paced romp through the rediscovery of love after age 55.  The plot line moves quickly, the characters are engaging and believable and you find yourself really hoping these star crossed lovers can find a way to pull things off.  This book left a smile with me ....a wonderful read.	2000-10-31
US	50442542	R3J4RMLGFTRNC0	0375504613	440124740	A Short Guide to a Happy Life	Books	5	44	49	N	N	A short guide indeed	This slim volume packs an enormous wallop. Anna Quindlen gives her advice to a happy life....Get a life.  Fifty pages (half of it, photos)of no nonsense start living advice in her clear, no hidden meaning prose.  I found this to be a delight, an all too brief delight.  My only complaint was the book's brevity, but the message is to found there as well....don't spend all your time reading &quot;how-to&quot; guides...get out there!	2000-10-31
US	50442542	RENQR48C0KPUE	0525945121	293422350	Chang and Eng: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting, but somewhat unsettling	Chang and Eng is the fictionalized account of the Siamese twins, Chang and Eng Bunker who were famous world wide in the mid 1800's.  Told from the viewpoint of Eng, it folows the brothers from their beginnings on the Mekong River to the sideshows, and later the salons and drawing rooms of Europe.  The brothers later would marry sisters and settle in North Carolina.  At its heart, this is a story of brothers, their love, their differences, their  competition and the unbreakable bond.  I was a bit constrained by the small voice in my head that kept saying &quot;It's not polite to stare.&quot;  The language is a delight to read.	2000-10-25
US	50442542	R2X06XH8XUHP18	0892046333	952181812	The Ballpark Book : A Journey Through the Fields of Baseball Magic	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Return to your field of dreams	I spent four summers toiling under the unforgiving sun that dominated Arlington Stadium, watching the Texas Rangers and selling peanuts along the first base line.  I have since returned to visit The Ballpark, the new, oldstyle park that now is home to the Rangers.....but I have a real soft spot for that old orange monstrosity.  The Ballpark Book is a brief look into ballparks of the past (Classics such as Fenway and Wrigley), the domes, the &quot;Middle Ages&quot; (Jack Murphy and Anaheim) and the new &quot;oldstyle&quot; parks noew in vogue.  This book describes each park, its personality, the highlights of archecticture, the quirks that allowed each home team an advantage (none who have seen the fog roll into the Stick in San Francisco will ever forget it)and the memorable personalities that inhabit those parks.  Having visited over half of the parks and loved each and every one as an intergal park of the game (OK, some I have loved less) I found this book a real joy to read and a real trip down memory lane to pour over photographs and illustrations. This goes right next to my autographs, my orange buttons for surviving extra inning Giants games, and foul ball collection.....a real treat.	2000-10-25
US	50442542	R2WTKWPB3RDNGO	0811826848	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Don't let the heft scare you off!	This is a comprehensive overview of the Beatles from the very beginning...full of photos and handwritten notes, school programs, and family reminises.  It follows the band through various incarnations (loved the old flyers and advertisements) and various influences. Each member has a voice, and it facinating to see each person evolve into the personalities we remember so well.  It is also a comprehensive look into the cultural changes that raced through the 60's.  Family and friends also contribute to the narritive, and it is a refreshingly honest  and uninhibited look at the band.  The eventual breakup of the band is chronicled, and it  captures the apathy and ambiguity that made the &quot;announcement&quot; so hard to believe, and fuled the hope the reunion was possible.  The actual book was a bit unwieldy.....not one you could cosy up on the couch with.  Don't let that discourage you..	2000-10-25
US	50442542	R1ZME1UZ86NST9	0786863250	432334443	Natural Blonde	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A graet dish!	I have followed the career of fellow Texan, Liz Smith for a long time.  Often her name would pop up in conversations about celebrities as one who had an inside track.  When I picked up Natural Blonde, I knew I was in for a good read.  Beginning with her growing up years in Texas, her stint at Hardin Simmons, her short first marriage, and journalistic study at the University of Texas, she weaves a great tale of growing up in a small town where she first caught the celebrity bug.  The stories of starting off in New York, the life long friendships made with both the people in front and behind the spotlight.  The stories of living young in New York are priceless.  As the story  continues into the halcion days of the 70's and the excesses, and the all out gossip business. This is a skillfully told story. She  chronicles the evolution of gossip, with all its twists and turns, and big personalities. You can tell how Liz became the widely read columnist, for her personality never overshadows the celebrity's  story ..  That is the only fault I can find.  The very ability that makes her a favorite with the famous....not being too big a &quot;personality&quot; on her own, being a good old girl, keeps her from spilling some stories that she must know.  There are plenty of names dropped, spanning from the old studio days to the celebrities of today.  The focus on the celebrities, is at  at the expense of telling about herself(or perhaps to keep from having to divulge too much about herself).  One has to believe she is that way...putting the story before herself.  An asset that has served her well. This is a great read and another  tribute to the strong, smart cult of Texas women.	2000-10-10
US	50442542	R150XK6ZZ6Y1CY	0679463313	663135828	Never Die Easy: The Autobiography of Walter Payton	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A touch of sweetness	I was a bit caught off guard when I first picked up Never Die Easy, and saw it was comprised of narritives from various people in Walter Payton's life.  I quickly put any aprehensions  aside as I became enthralled in the descriptions and recollectons of Payton and others.  I was gratified to find that the Walter Payton of real life was close to the Walter Payton I had come to admire and respect.  Many people contributed to this book, and added layers to the story Walter Payton told.  Along with the voices of coaches and fellow players, the voices of his wife, his children, and his siblings. The passages that deal with his life before Chicago...a Soul Train dance contest winner?... and after football are candid. They are very frank with  descriptions of learning he was sick and how they  dealt with the struggle as his health declined. No one ever gave up hope.  This is a fitting tribute to one of the finest football players to ever play the game and a pleasure to read.	2000-10-10
US	50442542	R2YN4RX0QT2T5E	0375501517	61094722	The Island of Lost Maps: A True Story of Cartographic Crime	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Stranded on the island	I remember reading in the paper the story of the mild mannered man who plundered many of the great map collections of libraries and universities and the by chance discovery of his theft.  I looked to The Island of Lost maps to flesh out the story, and ended up with more questions.  Exposing a little explores relm of maps, old, rare, and irreplaceable.  When Gilbert Brand began offering inexplicable rarities at map fairs and his shop, many eyebrows were raised.  This book unwinds the story of his beginnings, the lives he lived prior to his arrest, and the swath he cut through the cartographic community. It is at its best when describing the insular and clannish world of map collecters. And one is puzled at the lack of security in the great collections, and the code of silence that prevails.  Why weren't more alarms raised? This is an interesting book, but seriously suffers from no access to the man, Gilbert Bland.  With only one taped interview bland gave to prison officials , the story is an enigma....like Bland.  The story of map acquisition and the history of cartography is a bit tedious....and one is ultimately let down by the miniscule punishment given to Mr. Bland.	2000-10-10
US	50442542	R2KH9YEH2DWQOU	031225296X	439886302	You Can't Catch Death: A Daughter's Memoir	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A daughter's touching tribute	In an effort to reconcile memories, dreams and fears with real life, Ianthe Brautigan writes of her life with father, Richard Brautigan.  After he took his own life in 1984, she was left with memories and what-ifs.  This book is her journey into remembering and discovering her father and his life.  Within the pages of this book lies a healing journey, back to the terrible drinking times, back to the grandmother she never knew, back to treasured morinings at her father's San Francisco apartment,  and other times shared with her father.  Photos capture the fragments of that life, and let us glimpse again at the shy, wild-haired Brautigan.  Somewhere in facing down deamons and fears of this past life, I feel she somehow reclaims her own life and is no longer afraid of the future.  This book had a powerful impact on me.  The story of a daughter trying to gather the pieces of her life and to set them out to study, is a portrait of courage and grace.	2000-10-01
US	50442542	R37M865GEVLAK4	037541066X	350330565	Time to Be in Earnest : A Fragment of Autobiography	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Drink in the words	Time to Be in Earnest is a journal kept by mystery writer P.D. James beginning in 1997 and ending in late 1998.  She does not confine herself just to events during these dates, instead recaling her life earlier. She writes of starting to write because she did not want to be a grandmother who said &quot;I wanted to write a novel&quot;, the England she remembers after World War 1 and surviving World War ll.  She recalls old friends, literary influences, historic events, infamous crimes of the British Isles.  Also touched upon is the struggle of living with a husband with chrinic mental illness and the acceptance of being the support of her family.  All this is conveyed in some of the most flowing and beautiful language I have ever read.  The everyday is lifted up by the command of the English language and the observant eye of someone embracing life. A wonderful book, a joy to read.	2000-10-01
US	50442542	RCBTDKI99QLPD	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	2	4	7	N	N	An interesting companion book	Right on the cover, it states Offical Companion Book of the Television Series....and it is an interesting addition.  having watched all the series (I know, I should be professing to watch only PBS, not schlock) I found this book added to an already enjoyable experience.  Most interesting to me was all the background of the actual production aspect of the show.  I would have liked more information on the production crew...what kind of person signs up for that?  The book also would have benefited from rewriting.  It was written as the events unfolded...fleshing out the facts would have been a huge plus.  In the end it does what it says it will....it is an addition to the series.	2000-09-30
US	50442542	RUPTXMD9X4ORI	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	2	0	0	N	N	An interesting companion book	Right on the cover, it states Offical Companion Book of the Television Series....and it is an interesting addition.  having watched all the series (I know, I should be professing to watch only PBS, not schlock) I found this book added to an already enjoyable experience.  Most interesting to me was all the background of the actual production aspect of the show.  I would have liked more information on the production crew...what kind of person signs up for that?  The book also would have benefited from rewriting.  It was written as the events unfolded...fleshing out the facts would have been a huge plus.  In the end it does what it says it will....it is an addition to the series.	2000-09-30
US	50442542	R3EWAIMCYL3C58	1580291074	935711593	Tabloid Baby	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Blah, blah, blah	This book covers the birth of tabloid television journalism  from its seemly beginnings in the 80's.  I have always found these type of shows to be a guilty pleasure.  I found that the people behind the shows are indeed as uncontrollable and uncouth as I imagined.  This testosterone fueled book is impossible to read.  It jumps from one story to the next, the language is over the top and it commits the very worst sin of tabloid reporting....it is boring!  Way too long.	2000-09-28
US	50442542	R30L2FXI27M2WT	0684837668	988019208	My Mother's Daughter: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The ties that bind	I was drawn to the story of two sisters in Columbus, Texas....beginning as the second world war winds down to its end.  Justine Mayfield, the free spirited sister, hell-bent on getting away from the confines of small town life.  Martha Claire, waiting for her husband to come home and for the two of them to embark on the life they had always talked about, nestled in Columbus, surrounded by children.  Life does not always bring what you hope for.  The two sisters are forced to deal with the realities.  Each sister on her chosen path, facing the many twists and turns those paths  bring.  Life brings hurt and loss and betrayal and heartbreak along with the joys and love and accomplishment.  This book captures life in Columbus....I visited the town many times as a child, climbing the steps of the gingerbread trimmed house of my Aunt Daisy Lee. In my mind's eye, I could see the Mayfield house, hear the stories of how the original wrought iron fence had been donated to the scrap metal drive for the war effort.  The characters are true to life, almost too heartbreakingly so.  The book captures the feel of small town Texas, the urge some have to break free , the drive others have to remain forever in its embrace. None of the choices come without a cost...My Mother's Daughter is a wonderful tale of those choices and the price paid, and the redemptive power of love and forgiveness.	2000-09-26
US	50442542	R1X0PAW04M6F7Y	0802847110	382294583	The Daily Book of Common Prayer: Readings and Prayers Through the Year	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Daily comfort and inspiration	I treasure this book, turning to its daily reading to start my day.  Although of a different faith, I find the daily message and meditation uplifting.  It helps me focus on the important things in my life, and to embrace that which nourishes my soul. The writing is beautiful and the message universal and readable.  A book that can  be embraced by all..	2000-09-24
US	50442542	R1VICWJSHY2W8Z	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Perfect for a rainy day	Open House is the story of one woman's reaction and coming to terms with the end of her marriage.  If only all life's challenges were wrapped up this neatly.  This is a very readable book with very likable characters.  Its only fault is the story is too neat and too easy.  There are some memorable lines, such as when Samantha acknowledges that even  she would want to divorce her getting older self.  This was a quick and easy read...and a welcomed relief from the last few angst filled Oprah  selections.  It was not uo to the standard set by previous Elizabeth Berg books, but a good read, none the less.	2000-09-23
US	50442542	R23OCSDSYY0NUS	0964109913	315138860	The Front Runner: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Time does not dull the message	As I watched the 2000 Olympics, I was compeled to dig out my old copy of The Front Runner, complete with the olympic rings on the front.  I first read this book in college....and I find that after 24 years this book still rings true.  A tale of both an athlete's desire to attain his best and to come to grips with his sexuality.  A story of trust and friendship.  A book that moved me to tears as I read the final chapters.  This is a wonderful book.	2000-09-22
US	50442542	R1LNUHMADAAX76	1583082328	814596561	Heart Smart	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great patient guide	I have to admit I shied away from reading this book.  Working in the  cardiac field, you get bombarded with books.....and often get confusing and  conflicting messages. Often in their zeal to show all they know , authors  tend to bombard the reader with reams of information....usually not  helpful.  Heart Smart was sitting at the bedside of a friend undergoing  cardiac catherization....so I asked her if it had been helpful.  When she  said &quot;yes&quot;, I decided to read it.  This slim volume is packed  full of patient-friendly information, and no nonsense hints for preparing  for cardiac procedures and reccomendations to aid  recovery.It is filled  with easy to understand  explainations of diagnosis and straight forward (  and not overwhelming] explainations of procedures, and treatments.  It is  easy to read,  full of practical advice (ie&quot; keep a list of medicatons  you are taking, amounts and frequency, with you....you can't believe how  many patients are unsure of what they are taking) and encourages the  patient to be a part of their care and recovery.  it is very patient  empowering.....I think this is one of the moststraight forward  patient-friendly books I have come across.  An excellent tool.	2000-09-14
US	50442542	RB5V57Z0NAHZ3	1559705477	111207955	One Day in September	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Engrossing...an education in terror and its aftermath	September 1972 meant running home from junior high to see the latest  accomplishments of my hero, Mark Spitz.  I remember the hostage taking by  the Black September, a shadowy vision of a figure on a  balcony, Peter  Jennings on the TV and the emotion in Jim McKay's voice as he announced the  botched rescue attempt of the eleven Isreali athletes and coaches.  It was  confusing to have the festivity of the games continue...knowing such a  terrible event had just taken place.  One Day In September  is a  journalistic account of those fateful days.  It covers the political  climate that fostered the hatred, the absolute horror of Jewish athletes  being held hostage on German soil, the inexcusable mishandling by German  authorities of a rescue attempt.  All these things are told, with  information of who some of the major players on both sides were.  It  follows the aftermath, the effect on families on both sides, the  unwillingness of the Germans to admit error(in fact there was a massive  coverup of their ineptitude).  Most facinating is the story of Operation  Wrath of God, Isreal's answer to the horror that had been foist upon its  athletes and people.  This book was hard to put down.  It also pointed out  how bloodshed seems to begat bloodshed.... even with the most righteous  intentions.	2000-09-07
US	50442542	R2MAUCB70U0ST4	067088278X	44624102	Each Peach Pear Plum board book (Viking Kestrel Picture Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sure to entertain and charm all ages	A beautifully illustrated board book that combines story and hidden pictures.  Each hidden picture ties into the next page.  The illustrations  and the story  are charming and this is a book you will love to read to  someone over and over.	2000-09-07
US	50442542	R1INFUBYFB77EM	0394587367	710187821	Diana Mosley: A biography of the glamorous Mitford sister who became Hitler's friend and married the leader of  Britain's fascists	Books	1	3	12	N	N	A casual embrace of evil, banal and chilling	I have been facinated by stories of the dashing and eccentric Mitford sisters.  I am familiar with Nancy's barbed wit.  I have heard tales of  Unity's tragic choices....but not as much about Diana.  The majority of the  book ( way too much and too much &quot;precious&quot; detail) tells of the  unconventional upbringing of the Mitford clan, their weird odd habits and  speech patterns, their loves and forays into social and political life. We  see Diana as she becomes a social fixture, marries and then begins her  foray into public and political forums.  The most interesting portion of  this book is Diana's flirtation and eventual embrace of Germany and Hitler  in the early 30's.  It is almost obscene how Diana becomes enamored with  the reich's idealogy, and how acceptable the anti-semetic line of thought  was to someone of the British uppercrust(it caused me to wonder how  prevelant that way of viewing the Jews was in the uppercrust, and did that  allow Hitler to advance unchallanged for too long).  It is sad to see how  this idealogy stayed with her throughout her life.  The brief shining  moment is the way she deported herself while imprisioned in British jails  during WWll.....but this book is a major disappointment.  No matter how  interesting, how cultivated, how charming Diana is portrayed, her beliefs  are repugnant and the casual way she embraces them so wholeheartedly is  chilling.  The book is too dense, fillled with  too much trivia, hard to  get involved with and to stay with.  I set it down several times.  I think  is was both the writing and the subject.  It barely addresses her life  after WWll. How did she react to the face of evil once it was exposed to  the world?  How did her children endure the legacy their parents forced  upon them?  It would have been interesting to see if social and political  retrubition or redemption was attained and how the British endured the  viper in their midst.	2000-09-03
US	50442542	RF0VWAR1W2S8E	006017613X	495185639	Nora, Nora: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The gift of a constant heart ... the best summer read so far	Peyton McKenzie believes she killed her mother....and that belief colors all she does in the small southern town that is her home.  The adults in  her life look upon her with a mix of bemusement and worry, but let her run.  Her closest friends are the two fellow mwmbers of the Losers' Club, and  they aren't going to encourage her to change.  Out of the blue, Nora  arrives.  Nora is Peyton's older cousin, a child of the sixties and the  south.  Nora enthralls Petyon, and begins to raise havoc in town.  She is  breath of fresh air and life....and is the guiding hand as Peyton takes her  first steps into young womanhood.  There have been conplaints that the book  is superficial, I found it to be engrossing.  Following familiar themes  from ARS other books, the class struggles in the small town, race, loss and  breaking away from conformitity.  I liked this so much because it delt with  flawed humans, no simple black and white.  In the end it is a story about  &quot;having been born with a constant heart&quot; and learning to accept  those who love us.	2000-08-28
US	50442542	R2AZI5GQQ9JOL1	1573241415	927282607	The 12 Secrets of Highly Creative Women: A Portable Mentor	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Great Quotes	I have so many this type books that my new creative outlet is how to  arrange them on my ever shrinking bookshelf.  This book is presented in an  easy to read and to follow format.  Many creative and successful people  have been quoted and offer suggestions.  That is what puts this book above  so many of the unleash the(fill in the blank) within you books.  It is  honest, down to earth and do-able.	2000-08-28
US	50442542	R34404LKYFREC3	0312253273	971760264	Jackie: Her Life in Pictures	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A before unseen view of Jackie	I was captivated by this book.  James Spada has compiled several  well-known photographs with many photos I had never seen.  He does not try  to analyse or to delve into the behind the scenes.  He presents the photos  with a paragraph or two, and lets us glimpse into Jackie Kennedy Onassis's  life.  I was entranced by the pictures of her youth and the pure beauty and  joy in several ungarded moments.  A beautiful tribute.	2000-08-28
US	50442542	R2H9361Y4UOEFY	0609606123	604531106	Great Dames: What I Learned from Older Women	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Interesting...not great	Great Dames profiles the lives of ten prominant women who emerged during a  time when women were not thought to have much influence.  With the  exception of Constance Baker Motley ,Kitty Carlisle Hart and her own  mother,  these women seem to excelled in marrying well, sleeping  with the  right person and being born into socially or politically connected  families.  While their stories are facinating and present insight into a  time since gone, they are bittersweet and unsatisfying.	2000-08-20
US	50442542	R1RK0G54TRCTHB	0385333862	94741593	The Running Mate	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Much like a politicians speech....a bit too long	After being captured by Primary Colors, and the &quot;who wrote it?&quot; mystery behind its author, I thought I'd try the book Joe Klein put his  name on.  It is the tale of Senator Charlie Martin,(John McCain or even Bob  Kerry) and his quest for the possible VP spot with Jack Stanton (he's back  and as slimey as ever).  Of course the road to success does not run  smoothly, there is a percieved sexual harrasment problem and a romantic  entanglement to contend with.  Our hero(?) also tries to keep control of  his staff, contend with the ever encroaching press and keep a lid on  secrets, his and those of his opponents. There are many twists and turns.  the story line does take some unpredictable roads.  It is a well paced  political thriller and an enjoyable read.  It does lack the &quot;who wrote  it?&quot; cachet that boosted Primary Colors.  I found it just a little bit  too long and a wee bit convoluted.	2000-08-20
US	50442542	R2N3PW1R05LETE	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	1	24	107	N	N	ZZZZZZZZZZZ.......	The title of this book is so much more promising that the actual body.  The premise that we have been becoming more disconnected as a society,and  thus, are more dissatisfied is provocative.  This is a book for those who  enjoy graphs and indexes, and pie charts.  I read it as a class assignment  and it felt just like that...homework.	2000-08-19
US	50442542	R3A35ZPROJPDJH	1563522772	597640345	Threadgill's: The Cookbook	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Much more than a cookbook	Homesick for Texas, and all those good eats?  This is the book for you.  It is much more than a cookbook, it is a piece of Texas to be read and  savored.  Having eaten at all the locations of Threadgill's and having  spent many (too many, according to my college transcript) at Armadillo  World Headquarters, opening this book was like a trip back home.  Sure,  there are the receipes for all the Threadgill's classics, including all the  vegetable dishes.  Sure you can try to make the wonderful chicken fried  steak,  but intertwined in all those recepies is the history of  Threadgills, and the people who were there.  You learn the thinking behind  the place many called home, you remember the brand names of products that  made Texas cooking great.  You also get a bird's eye view of the Texas  music scene and all the colorful  people who inhabited that time and place.  Threadgill's kept me from getting too homesick when I left Dallas, and  moved to Austin.  This book keeps  me from getting too homesick for home.	2000-08-19
US	50442542	R3FQVR2W89RLH4	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A quirkily funny book	I have become acquainted with David Sedaris through his commentaries on  NPR and various magazine pieces.  This book is a collection of many of  those, with some really laugh-provoking spots.  Nutcracker.com is a treat  (minus the last 4 paragraphs), as well as laugh out loud pieces The  Learning Curve, City of Angels, and Giant Dreams, Midget Abilities.  There  are also wry , introspective, even touching pieces such as The City of  Lights in the Darkand genetic Engineering.  Sometimes, you get the feeling  Sedfaris is indulging in writing along the same lines as he indulged art  (Twelve Moments in the Life of the Artist). I cannot find serious fault  with anyone else who is enamored with One Life to Live ( I only wish I  could have taken his writing class) and who remembers the Vicki fainting at  her class reunion story line.	2000-08-19
US	50442542	R1DE1Y46NYHP87	0684856816	800344209	A Twist at the End : A Novel of O. Henry	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Meandering tale of murder	Based on the true-life Servant Girl Annihilator murders in Austin, Texas in 1885 , this book weaves both fact anf fiction.  Unfortunately, the warp  of this weave is very lose and full of holes.  The main chatacter is  William Porter, later to become famous as O. Henry...and many of the  incidents are true (and a few echo famous murder trial of our day).  The  problem with this book is it meanders all about, from person to person and  is drawn out almost to the point of tossing the book away.  It has some  interesting historical moments, but isn't as good a book as this unsolved  mystery deserves.	2000-08-17
US	50442542	R2DB91E1OW0FBH	0345439600	682734838	The Black Rose	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Captivating	The story of Madam C.J. Walker,the hair care product pioneer and America's first black female millionaire is the rags-to-riches story that this  country was built upon.  Based on reaserch done by Alex Haley prior to his  death, Tananarive Due weaves a spellbinding tale of determination,  heartbreak, and triumph.  Spanning the time following the Civil war to the  early 1900's, she is able not only to tell the story of Sarah Breedlove,  later to be renamed Madam C.J. Walker, but intertwine that compelling story  with historical events. The book is character driven, and those characters  come to life in these pages.  This was a delightful book, and thouroughly  involving.	2000-08-16
US	50442542	R1CE4VI6B1HMQA	0060194790	617082594	Waiting : The True Confessions of a Waitress	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An enjoyable treat	&quot;Waiting&quot;  provides a glimpse into the life of those we often forget to see, or acknowledge...the people who serve us. If we are to be  judged by the way we treat those who serve us, this book reveals us to be  a pretty pathetic bunch!  This is a engaging story of growing up and coming  to terms with choices and circumstances.  Debra Ginsberg has a real gift  for storytelling.  It also reinforced my belief in overtipping.....They do  work hard for the money.	2000-08-15
US	50442542	R13P4NKBQ8DBIB	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Like listening to grandpa	Much like listening to grandpa's long drawn out stories.  you know they  can be funny and that there is a point to them...you just wish he'd get to  the point!  Bryson is able to find the humor in the most unlikely places,  this time in Australia's vast expanses. But he tends to ramble and drag on  and become tedious.	2000-08-12
US	50442542	R23YC7MK0ARE10	0375503714	873402511	The Special Prisoner: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Spellbinding	&quot;Special Prisoned&quot; refers to the designation the Japanese used  for pilots captured during World War ll.  These prisoners were considered  war criminals and treated to unspeakable cruelty and deprivation.  John  Quincy Watson was captured after his plane went down on a bombing run over  Tokyo.  Taken into captivity, he comes face to face with T. Tashimoto, the  Hyena. The Hyena seems to delight in humiliating and torturing the  prisoners, especially those like Watson, with red hair.  Watson is forced  to watch as those around him are abused and killed .  He is permanently  marked by the constant beatings recieved at the hands of martial arts  expert Hyena.  As he and his fellow prisoners struggle to survive, a deep  hatred of his captor festers and eventually errupts.  Years later a chance  sighting in the DFW airport triggers all the horrific memories and sends  Watson,now a Methodist bishop, on a quest to settle one last score.  The  story that follws blends both the present and horrific flashbacks to  explain how a man of God can be overcome by such extreme hatred and a  desire for vengence.  This book rang true for me, for a friend of our  family had been interred for four years  by the Japanese in a camp of  foreign civilians.  He was only 10 years old at the time (much like Empire  of the Sun) and was forever marked by the cruelty of his captors.  A chance  meeting across a boardroom table, years later in New York, errupted into a  similar situation.  Jim Lehrer has been able to balance a compelling story  of man's search for redemption and revenge, and the price it extracts.	2000-08-09
US	50442542	R18T8WFY625JJS	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	1	10	12	N	N	A weighty disappointment	I was excited to start this book, thinking back on the recent crop of  British 20 something stories that have entered the market.  This book was a  real disappointment.  The most annoying part of this book is the way the  author narrates from time to time, explaining the upcoming scene or the  characters' feelings, in third person.  The story is thin and predictable  and the characters are one dimensional.  A waste of time.	2000-08-08
US	50442542	R2QDPHW23N1TYF	1572433604	871678152	The Best Of Frank Deford	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Flashes of vintage Deford	Frank Defors is arguably one of the most gifted sports writers and  commentators of our times. He is able to stand back and see the big  picture.  this compilation of Deford's NPR spots and columns spans a wide  array of sports and sports figures.  I think he is best when he profiles  the people in sports. There are pieces on Pete Rose, Bobby Knight, Bill  Russell, Keith VanHorn and those we may not know as well.  What I like best  is his obvious affection for and knowledge of the history of sports.  The  pieces in this book ars short enough that you can skip the ones which don't  grab you immediately.  His outlook is wry and affectionate.  Some of these  pieces are Deford at his best.  The majority are merely good.	2000-08-08
US	50442542	R2SRKTRD7K7SO1	1879198266	713918203	The Other Side of Ethel Mertz: The Life Story of Vivian Vance	Books	4	33	34	N	N	She's not Ethel Mertz!	It came as a surprise that there had been no previous biography of the  actress Vivian Vance before this.  We all came to know her as the beloved  sidekick and &quot;best friend&quot; of Lucy Ricardo on the long running  &quot;I Love Lucy&quot; television show.  It came as little surprise that  the wise cracking, laughing person we all grew to love from TV was actually  a person beset by family problems and anxiety.  This is a well researched  and written book.  Following Vivian Vance's growing up in a small town, her  early days in theatre, her disappointments in love, and her crossing paths  with Desi Arnez, this book doesn't disappoint.  Vivian Vance is shown to be  a multifaceted, complex performer, trying to come to terms with the  perpetual second bannana roll that became her offering in life.  There are  some particularly poignent sections dealing with the actress's struggle  with depression and breakdowns, and touching tales of how she was the first  to speak out about depression and mental illness, and how she reached out  to others.  This was a much needed glimpse into the life of someone we all  thought we knew and loved.	2000-08-07
US	50442542	RI5KQJH719AMW	0375504044	393898778	Left for Dead: My Journey Home from Everest	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Not what I expected	The image of Beck Waethers' frostbitten face is one I have stamped on my  memory.  I have often wondered what happened to this survivor of the deadly  1996 Everest Expedition.  Beck returned to Dallas to try pick up the pieces  of his life and discovered, for all intents and purposes, he had almost  lost his family as well.  This book is the combined stories of Beck  Weathers and his wife, Peach (I was so glad to find she actually had  another name).  It touches on Beck's growing up, his schooling, getting  married and how he became obsessed with conquering the Seven Summits.  Peach adds her observations and commentary on the family that for all  intents and purposes came along for the recovery.  It is a tale of  struggling to find self, (both Weathers)and a marriage.  The most  interesting thing about this book is the narritative style and the absolute  honesty of both writers.  You find yourself wondering if Beck will ever  overcome his feelings of inadequacy and will he ever really reach out and  make an emotional connection with those closest to him. There is enough  about the climb to remind the reader this was a serious and driven climber.  Left For Dead is more a story of redemption, and a tale that leaves its  reader wondering if it will ever be completely found in Beck's mind.	2000-08-07
US	50442542	R104C0AC64UGJH	0525944745	257835524	The Road Taken	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Solid, but not great	As an avid fan of Rona Jaffe,I am always excited to see a new book. I dove  right into The Road Taken.  It is the story of Rose Smith, born at the  beginning of the 20th century,and her family.  Following, Rose and her  family we see the emergence of the new century , the blossoming women's  movement, the death of loved ones, the two great wars.  This book is well  written and covers most of the pivitol events of the last 100 years,  somehow tying Rose and her extensive family into each event.  However, the  book does not really develop the characters as well as I had hoped, with  the exception of Rose's daughter Joan.  The characters seem to serve only  to introduce events.  It was a an OK read, but not what I have come to  expect from Jaffe, a minor disappointment.	2000-08-06
US	50442542	R2PZYE3FSYEO6T	1568362927	725017179	Gone Boy: A Walkabout	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Heartbreaking, tender	Gregory Gibson was awakened by every parents' worst nightmare...his son, Galen,  has been shot and killed on the campus of the small college he was attending.  Once the shock wore off,  the only way he  could cope and  manage his grief was to go on a walkabout..a trip to discover the facts  behind his son's senseless murder.  As he sets out on his journey of  discovery he lets us in on how he feels, how is family is handling the  loss, the motives behind the quest.  The very fact that he keeps changing  and refocusing the intent of his search is a story  of coming to terms with  a senseless act and the finality of death.  It is  heartbreaking to hear  him discribe his wife. Annie, as she finds comfort in the world of  Publishers' Clearing House mailers,  his children begin to venture out into  the world.  As the story unfolds, and Mr. Gibson finds more and more truth  about Galen's death, he also comes in contact with  the many people who had  an unwitting role in his son's death, hears their story and the pain they  also feel.  People are not as you might think.  It is a sad fact of life  that many of the horrors of life do not have a pat explination ...sometimes  we have to accept that evil does walk among us, and we try not to succumb  to it's pull.  It is a  a triumph of spirit.	2000-07-27
US	50442542	R3LRE7GENY556T	0312203640	775425951	We Could Almost Eat Outside: An Appreciation of Life's Small Pleasures	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderful!	This slim volume offers up simple wisdoms of life. Translated from the French, there are very few things that do not universally carry over into my American sensibilities. Each brief essay presents one of the small and simple pleasures of life....driving at night, autumn sweaters, picking blackberries, the first sip of beer, and hearing a loved one's voice over the phone, among others. The essays on ordering and eating a banana split and paperweights are priceless. The insight offered. that we perch on the brim of possibility, the \\"make-believe world pitted against the real world\\" awaiting our decisions While this book points out the obvious, it is never too sweet or cloying. The use of language and phrasing is beautiful; the imagery it conjures up is a joy to read. I marked many of the pages, so I could find the wonderful phrases which caught my attention and imagination. This is a writer of rare talent. This is a book I will read over and often.	2000-07-24
US	50442542	R3NZQUJ5FT336H	0688174566	992211330	After Lucy: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This slim book is a satisfying read	After the long, lingering death of his wife, one man sets out with his two children to ...well, even he is not sure what he is setting out to do. Porter Ellis takes his two children and the impulsively acquired camper and sets out to reclaim his life. He leaves behind his well-to-do in-laws, and the remnants of the life he had with Lucy, his wife. The trip takes some unusual turns and the three find themselves forced to stop in the most unusual setting. Porter is gently forced to begin to deal with the loss of his wife, the distance that caring for her in her last days has created with his children, and the questions often asked after death....\\"is what I'm doing all there is?\\" The affection and compassion the author has for these characters shines through, even the bigger than life characters. This was both sad and humorous...never mawkish...I think this is one of the sweetest books I have read in a long time, and it will be one I read again.	2000-07-22
US	50442542	R315KF00TIH9IY	0688174566	992211330	After Lucy: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A  tender book about death and those left behind	When Porter Ellis's wife Lucy dies after a long struggle with cancer,  he is set adrift.  Actually he casts himself off, with his two  children in a camper of questionable integrity.  His destination?  Not even he is sure,  he is just trying to get away from the confusion of surviving , the  controlling in-laws, and the memories of Lucy.  The family finds themselves  stranded in the most unlikely place and is gently forced to confront their  loss and to begin to rebuild the ties strained by Lucy's illness.  This is  a book about family, and the forces that both pull them apart and bind  them.  Porter has to try to begin to answer the question many left behind  (and at a certain stage in life) ask..&quot;.is this what my life is?&quot;  As the story unfolds, the characters are given many layers and the story  is both heartbreaking and humerous...never mawkish.  This is a tender story  of loss and confronting life after Lucy....a book I will read again.	2000-07-22
US	50442542	R3U7H7B7EZA38T	0688174566	992211330	After Lucy: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This slim book is a satisfying read	After the long , lingering  death of his wife, one man sets out with his two children to ...well, even he is not sure what he is setting out to do.  Porter Ellis  takes his two children and the impulsively acquired camper  and sets out to reclaim his life.  He leaves behind his well-to-do in-laws,  and the remnents of the life he had with Lucy, his wife.  The trip takes  some unusual turns and the three find themselves forced to stop in the most  unusual setting.  Porter is gently forced to begin to deal with the loss of  his wife, the didtance that caring for her in her last days has created  with his children, and the questions often asked after death..&quot;.is  what I'm doing all there is?&quot;  The affection and compassion the author  has for these characters shines through, even the bigger than life  characters.  This was both sad and humerous...never mawkish...I think this  is one of the sweetest books  I have read in a long time, and it will be  one I read again.	2000-07-22
US	50442542	R1CJHMC4N2534M	0805050892	200618793	Gold Digger: The Outrageous Life and Times of Peggy Hopkins Joyce	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Tedious	Peggy Hopkins Joyce was one of the first tabloid darlings.  Her life consisted mainly of meeting ,entertaining and occasionally marrying rich men. There wasn't enough depth to really make this character or book  interesting.  It does give a tiny insight of the birth of the celebrity  culture, but is just as shallow and vapid as the title character.	2000-07-16
US	50442542	R1U6YKNGIL3HEO	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	2	4	N	N	As God is my witness, I'll never eat mussels again	A jolt to the senses...the story of Anthony Bourdon's journey to chefdom is a rollercoaster ride of almost unbelievable stories. The subculture of the kitchen in any big restaurant is revealed. The stories are on this side of unbelievable, peopled with characters you might not want to get to know any better. Along the way the mysteries of how an establishment is run, the hierarchy, the weirdness, and the people who seem to thrive on this chaos are laid bare...do we get to know the whole story? Probably not, thank heavens. The fact that I have stricken mussels from my plate is proof enough. This is a compelling read, a glimpse into a world we intersect with every day. It is a pleasure to read about anyone who is so passionate about their chosen profession, and who makes a compelling argument for the recognition of all those who choose the same. A bit heavy on the testosteone laced language, it sometimes feels like you are being pounded like veal.....	2000-07-14
US	50442542	RYCIL4KYRBZJV	0517706628	741036068	Jenny Walton's Packing for a Woman's Journey	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	One of my most favorite books	There is a magic to writing, when the author has a great affection for their subject. This is such a book, it is an absolute gem. Nancy Lindemeyer's stories of her growing up and the people who populated her life are a delight to read. This is a book you will pull off your shelf and read over and over again.	2000-07-13
US	50442542	R2O8EFLGUWIOX5	0684865378	189890193	The Life of Our Lord: Written for His Children During the Years 1846 to 1849	Books	5	15	21	N	N	A tender treasure	This slight book is Charles Dickens' written interpretation of the Gospels, a gift meant for his children. It was only to be published after his death. In the retelling of Christ's life Dickens gives his children the most precious gift...his testimony. This is a treasure of a book, a witness to the beliefs Dickens held dear.	2000-07-13
US	50442542	R2VQIVGRZ865I3	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	1	6	13	N	N	A blight	There is a line of thought that if a book is well written it is worth reading, no matter how vile the content. This is such a book.  I confess, I did not finish . I was compelled to throw this away, a reaction I have only  had with a few other books...Save your money......	2000-07-13
US	50442542	R3P4CDQCR88PD	031225329X	20740774	The Ladies of Covington Send Their Love: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A tender story of lives reclaimed	The ladies of Covington are three women who have found themselves in the same boarding and are facing living out their lives there. Through a twist and an unknown family member, one woman comes into possession of an old house in the small town of Covington, KY. Each woman takes a step away from the past to strike out and move into this old house and reclaim their lives. Family relationships are tested, mended and revealed. Each woman has the opportunity to discover some deeper truth within her. The writing is delightful and descriptive, and the portraits of each woman are tender and well thought out. The supporting people are also a good mix of personalities. This was a very soothing and affirming book to read	2000-07-10
US	50442542	R3OSUU2HYZ0M3Z	0151006202	694829513	Greenwich	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A quick summer read	A book that can easily be read in one sitting, Greenwich is the intertwining stories of residents of Greenwich over several days. The characters are predictable, and easily put into their places in the plot. Fortunately, Howard fast makes them likable, or fleshes them out enough o have it all make sense. It moves very quickly and is a great book to sit by the pool and read.	2000-07-10
US	50442542	R3KOJ2QMSTXZ02	0375501770	90327779	Newjack: Guarding Sing Sing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tension and tedium	This book verifies the suspicion I have had for a long time, doing time in prison is hell...no matter what side of the bars you are on. Ted Conover reveals the bleakness, and the tedium that faces the prison guard is never ending, augmented by the constant tension and underlying current of fear. In an evenhanded and compassionate book, Conover reveals the day to day that these men and women face, with little respect, little reward, and no relief. We read as some of the brighter lights in the system are put out, like Momma Cradle, and see how the constant exposure to the hardest of society take a toll on all who do the work. It is like Chinese water torture...where will he be assigned, who will he have to face, will he make it through the day without getting attacked, or will his journalistic designs be discovered? Newjack is a very honest and riveting book.	2000-07-10
US	50442542	R22KEROBG0H88K	1573221503	560589279	My Grandfather's Blessings: Stories of Strength, Refuge, and Belonging	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A gift during a time of need	Dealing long distance with the terminal illness of a loved one, I have begun to feel depleted and impotent. I picked up this book at the recommendation of a friend. At first, I was not sure it would do me any good. As I kept reading it found I was soothed and encouraged by the stories within. I even felt myself being gently chided, for I had been looking at the illness through the protective (and emotionally safer) eyes of the health care professional I am. It allowed me to open an area that I had kept shut, the feelings I had about the illness and the potential loss. I found the book to be a comfort and a blessing. I have kept it at my bedside and have turned to portions which I need for that day. It is divided into several areas speaking of both receiving and giving and how they are intertwined. I cannot put into words the comfort and encouragement these pages gave me.	2000-06-21
US	50442542	R17X9QJP4BEIKV	034542283X	567182356	A Jerk on One End: Reflections of a Mediocre Fisherman (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I had to laugh	I bought this for my 19 year old son who has a passion for fishing. I'll admit it; I just don't understand the allure. I picked it up one night and was caught up in the storytelling. There is a bit of fishing history and plenty of fish stories. I still don't understand fishing, but found this brief book a good read.	2000-06-21
US	50442542	R26HDVN5WDS2GN	0786865504	186495277	World of Pies: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A good summer read	I was a bit confused when I began this book; I thought it was only about the character Roxanne as a 12 year old. It is actually the story of a small town girl, Roxanne, as she grows up in the wonderful small town of Annette, Texas. Each chapter deals with a fragment of her growing up moving from baseball, to best friends to nail polish and love. Intertwined in all that is the lives of her parents and other family and the loved ones who come and go. It feels very true to the time and place, beginning in Annette in 1962 and moving where time takes her. The characters are interesting and true to life and very likable. The recopies throughout are actually pretty good, the fudge sauce divine. It is a slice of life in the 60's and 70's and anyone who ventures to Annette, Texas is in for a treat.	2000-06-21
US	50442542	RMD017UD4UBIR	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Absolutely wonderful!	Once I began to read this book, I could not put it down. Everyone knows of Lance Armstrong's against-all-odds win at the Tour de France. Equally interesting is his description of how he grew into the man who accomplished that feat. His descriptions of growing up in a single parent household in Texas and his love of all things daring grab your attention and never let go. He is so truthful and open that you can imagine knowing him. His rise among the ranks of racing, the behind the scenes politics are unbelievable. His unflinching description of the discovery of cancer and how it invades, and changes life are unsparing. I finally understood what my own mother had tried to tell me about how chemo had altered her ability to eat when I read his explanation of his struggle. It is a story of cancer and of survival. Its greatest strength is it deals with facing what comes our way and learning to live with it. This is a marvelous wonder of a book.	2000-06-21
US	50442542	R2KPOVWCXIESMQ	0316314919	696195222	The Cabal and Other Stories	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Modern Southern Gothic at its Best	What do you do when the town psychiatrist, the one man you and many other of the town's elite, have trusted with you deepest darkest secrets ...suddenly shows signs of going off the deep end? You gather at the funeral of the town's great lady and conspire. You watch as the family of the deceased wait to divide the spoils and you pray that Dr. Jim Jaspers doesn't open his mouth about you. This novella and collection of short stories center on a tight knit community that revolves around the local theatre and university. Almost all may have something to hide. The death of a leading townsperson and the turmoil that ensues is perfect backdrop for the unwinding of Dr. Jasperson's mind. There is enough deceit and truth finding to go around. This is southern storytelling at its best	2000-06-21
US	50442542	R3F6SCYRVHZU93	0395935237	689670819	Just the Weigh You Are: How to Be Fit and Healthy, Whatever Your Size	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A groundbraeking book	In this world of weight loss and diet books, finally a book that makes sense.  Just The Weigh You Are is a no nonsense book that encourages people, no matter what size, to live healthier lifestyles. Between some of  the chapters are the personal stories of people from all walks who have  battled with weight and self image issues all their lives.  This is a very  straight-forward, no nonsense book which gives real insight into taking  better care of yourself, stopping self-loathing and taking control.  Whether you are thinking of losing some pounds or struggling with self  acceptance, it is a must read.	2000-06-18
US	50442542	R1DBDR51YW81I6	0385335105	851543694	Aches & Pains	Books	5	40	41	N	N	A great book to give to someone who's ailing	An easy to read, entertaining, compilation of short vignettes and advice from one of my favorite writers. Some of the chapters originally appeared in Maeve's column in the Irish Times, which she used to chronicle her recent hip replacement. It is filled with humorous and matter of fact ways to deal with illness head on. Not a novel or short story....so regular readers may be a bit disappointed, but a delightful tidbit for to share with someone who is sick, or to read you.	2000-06-18
US	50442542	R3M1TZ2S5R87K7	0060254025	42012770	Dreamland: A Lullaby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Agentle Call to Sleep	I picked up this book at a recent concert. Based on a Mary Chapin Carpenter song, Dreamland: A Lullaby is the perfect book to read a little on to sleep. The gentle cadences of the words are soothing and the storyline sweet. It is a perfect book to give to a new mother.	2000-06-16
US	50442542	R15UBEFA0A80D3	0684853779	999464161	Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	1	23	36	N	N	Get you SUV out of my reading space	Just what we need, a \\"scholarly\\" look at the bourgeois bohemians, or Bobo for short. It is hard to read this book without becoming increasingly irritated by the self congratulatory tone of the book. It contains a brief and interesting history of the bourgeois and bohemian beginnings in the United States. As it approaches present time, it becomes tedious and tiresome. Do we really care how conflicting it can be to choose the best of food, clothing, or even jobs? I don't. What's the point of the extended foray into the elite indulging in S&M and leather, no matter how earnest and sincere? I agree with another reader that the best parts are when Brooks touches on the drive to have the best or the professional model of something and his references to latte towns. All in all it is a tedious and irritating self congratulatory read that this OWUC (Overworked Underclass) female can do without! I donated my copy to the library.	2000-06-16
US	50442542	R3IWWLPNI7XF1G	0767904982	404856428	Running to the Mountain: A Midlife Adventure	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Love Jon Katz, not but not this book	When I was about 100 pages into this book, the thought struck me. All the almost all \\"getting away, discovering true self\\" books are all written by men. The women stay behind, keeping the home fires burning and the bills paid. I enjoyed this book once I got over the inequity of the whole \\"getting away\\" situation. Jon Katz has a gift for capturing the emotions of everyday struggle, complete with the absurdities of many of the things we do. His tale of discovering the ramshackle cabin and reclaiming it from the mice and encroaching forests brings a smile to anyone who has lived in a \\"fixer upper\\". He eventually blends into the local culture and weaves the people who inhabit the town into the book. It does tend to get a bit bogged down with Thomas Merton references (I am not a huge fan). When Katz deals with the reclamation of the cabin and the people who populate his world, he is at his best	2000-06-12
US	50442542	R8FJGGQH74Z1P	037550298X	947714454	Geeks: How Two Lost Boys Rode the Internet out of Idaho	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A glimpse of what may await my kids	Living in what can be an insular society of Utah, I was intriegued by this book.  The internet is viewed with a jaundiced eye in my world.  It allows me to zip about viewing books  I might not see anywhere else and as a  resource for my kids. It also can be the bearer of the unknown.  I was  simutaniously appaled and exhilerated by the boldness of the two young men,  leaving all that was familiar to strike off on their own.  Several times I  felt as though I should be packing up a box of food and goodies to send to  these two lost souls.  I was delighted to keep track of the inroads they  made in their work and social life....as much a social life as a geek has.  It was a great read, Jon Katz has an inside track on the world of the  internet and actually made most of it make some sense.  His fondness for  the two young men is evident and his struggle to remain an observer is as  much a part if the story as the move from Idaho.  It opened my eyes to what  my children may face when they leave this place and face the big bad world.	2000-06-12
US	50442542	R2EA9DCAV7O212	014028902X	888618380	My Family and Other Animals (Classic, Nature, Penguin)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A delightful family tale, I couldn't stop laughing	When the Durrell family decides to relocate to the Greek island of Corfu, they each have a decidedly different agenda. Oldest brother Leslie is off in search of his writing muse, brother Larry just wants to shoot guns, sister Margo is long suffering in love and Gerald cannot wait to explore. Told from the recollections of a ten year old this delightful tale is populated by these family members, headed by the benignly forgetful mother and faithful dog Roger, along with a series of characters from the island. Adding to this mix are animals collected by young Gerry, the narrator. Consumed with a love for all nature he adds an owl, water snakes, puppies, seagull, various insects, and the infamous magenpies to the mix. I cut my reading teeth on the Cheaper By the Dozen books and I think this measures up. After reading a description of the mating ritual of tortoises, as observed by a ten year old, I cannot look at one of the beast without laughing. This book is not only funny but suffused with a genuine affection for the people who inhabit it.	2000-05-24
US	50442542	R1527GITU1YEKE	0399145923	573580919	Carolina Moon	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A good beach book, or plane read	I have not read any other books by Nora Roberts. Reaching for a book to read while I was trapped in a car on a road trip, I remembered a favorable blurb in the newspaper and grabbed Carolina Moon. Soon I was engrossed in the story of Tory Bodeen and her quest to return to her hometown to confront the ghosts from her past. The white trash Bodeens had been tenants of the Lavelle family and young Tory's friendship with Hope Lavelle was a source of joy for both children. a brutal act cuts short the life of Hope and sends Tory into hiding from her self and her feelings. Eventually, Tory realizes that she must confront the past in order to heal. She returns to Progress, the town of her childhood to delve out the secrets of the past. Once there she renews contact with the remaining Lavelle family and family members who still live in Progress. She also begins to trust and rely on a special gift that has always been a part of her. In the process of setting out to start a new life, she discovers love and a very real danger from her past which can destroy her. As the story comes to an end, it almost seems too pat...be prepared. This was a really well paced book and I plan to look into other books by this writer.	2000-05-24
US	50442542	RKFWXUDFAFJYY	0806131810	671434706	Fawn McKay Brodie: A Biographer's Life	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Gives real insight into the life of a woman writer	I was interested in reading about the woman who had stirred up so much emotion with her biography of Joseph Smith. I have discovered, since living in Utah, the Brodie name can cause real division.  I was intrigued by the  descriptions of growing up in Utah in the first part of the 20th century.  The evolution from devout member of the Mormon church to one who questioned  and then left the fold, is thoughtful and well researched.  Most of all, I  was captivated by the description of Fawn Brodies's writing process.  It is  actually more telling and more informative than many of the volumes devoted  to writing.  It is a rare glimpse into the balancing act of a woman who had  chosen to include writing in her already full life, especially in a time  when women were rarely found working.  Many of the feelings she shares and  the conflicts she expressed ring true today.  A fair and even handed look  at a very complex woman.	2000-05-24
US	50442542	R2E32MQ3INVJM0	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Love It,  Love It,  Love It!	As soon as the Bookmobile appeared on page one, I was hooked. I was captivated by Big Stone Gap and the souls who inhabit the sleepy town. Ave Marie, the town spinster and pharmacist, is the main character. She is every person who has felt as though they didn't fit in, didn't look right, and felt there was some mysterious answer no one has yet told her. The day to day of Big Stone Gap life is shaken when Ave Marie discovers a secret kept by her recently deceased mother. Aided by some very loyal (and unforgettable) friends, she sets out to find out where her place is in the scheme of things. The author has a real fondness for her characters, never making them too cartoony (a big problem in writing about southern hill people) and moves the story along at a enticing pace. I had originally checked this out from my library (alas, still no bookmobile) and then purchased my own copy, which I immediately gave away and replaced with another. This is a keeper!	2000-05-24
US	50442542	R15EDKL6DIJ1AS	039923215X	737786483	Mister and Me	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Tender Story of Loss and Found	Kimberly Willis Holt has crafted a heartwarming story of Jolene Jasmine Johnson who has to face some big changes.  Used to life with only her mother and grandfather, Jolene is disturbed when Leroy Redfield begins to find a place in the family.  The story turns on the age old childhood  dilemma, where do you turn  when you think you have done the unforgivable?  As Jolene faces the anger and confusion caused by her momma developing a  relationship with Leroy, she strikes out without thinking.  The resolution  of this act is a tender story of finding that the heart can stretch to hold  room for more than one person and the power of  forgiveness.  A wonderful  story for any age.	2000-05-14
US	50442542	ROS01UPX31VIP	0345422783	460710962	How Reading Changed My Life	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Why I read	It was her physical description of books which first captured me, the smell, heft, and appearance of books.  Anna Quindlen comments on the high suspicion towards those who love to read...\\"Don't you have anything  BETTER to do with your time?\\".  I have long felt more connected to  those around me through my reading, finding books to be the safe passage to  other people and places.  Ms. Quindlen puts words to the feelings  for most  book lovers, the pleasurable whiling away of hours, the smell and feel of  books, discovering a new author.  Although this is a very small volume it  is  a delight for any booklover.	2000-05-14
US	50442542	RNCKJX5N3DFBZ	0292752008	679437011	Just As We Were: A Narrow Slice of Texas Womanhood (Southwestern Writers Collection Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just as I Imagined	Picking up this book was a trip into my Texas past. A glimpse of a rarified style of life that I pined for as a girl growing up in Grand Prairie....I don't think we had a Junior League. \\"Just As We Were\\" actually proves again, that no matter the side of the tracks you came from, Texas women are a singular breed, smart, strong, and committed	2000-05-13
