US	50452866	R2BC2QZVJWVL7D	0736909184	232478370	Mary Pride's Complete Guide to Getting Started in Homeschooling	Books	5	27	31	N	N	A Great Place to Start!!!	Mary Pride's book is a great place to start your homeschool research if you are new to homeschooling.  It's also a great place to refresh your memory and encourage you if you are a seasoned homeschooler.  Her book tackles the expected questions new homeschoolers have--  What's so great about homeschooling?  How has homeschooling changed?  Why do so many families homeschool?  Ten things you need to know before you start.  But, perhaps the most useful section for newbies is Part 2:  Finding your Goals, Making Your plan, What to join, What to read, Where to Shop, What to Expect.  Pride also goes into learning style, thinking styles and gives an extensive overview of each of the popular homeschooling methods, including the Classical approach, Unit Studies, Unschooling, Montessori, Laptop, Charlotte Mason, Eclectic methods, etc.  A very useful and extensive resource that  will save you a lot of time and grief.  Worth purchasing as opposed to just checking it out of the library because it is so comprehensive and makes so many good suggestions as to books to read and places on the web to check out.	2005-03-11
US	50452866	R1GS6SNA1MAJGP	0688145000	55500430	Merry Christmas, Geraldine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Light Hearted Christmas Fare	This is a sweet little story about a pig named Geraldine who wants a really big Christmas tree.  It's silly and captured my daughter's interest.	2003-12-11
US	50452866	R1O36QME7BZO4W	0810957035	573212096	Babar's Little Girl	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Classic Babar, but be a little careful...	I just read this story to my four-year old daughter.  It's a classic story from this author, nothing \\"wrong\\" with it, but you do need to watch out and may want to explain some parts.  In the storyline, the girl elephant wanders off by herself and accepts a boatride from a stranger...then she knocks on the door of an unfamiliar house.  Two male characters invite her inside and they all play together until they overhear a news alert that Babar is looking for his missing daughter, so they take her home. After reading it, I explained to my daughter that I didn't want her to wander off, accept boat rides from strangers or knock on unfamiliar doors and go inside a stranger's home.  This story was written in a simpler era when concerns were a bit different than in today's world.	2003-02-21
US	50452866	R234L8SW4CU21B	0810957035	573212096	Babar's Little Girl	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Classic Babar, but be a little careful...	I just read this story to my four-year old daughter.  It's a classic story from this author, nothing \\"wrong\\" with it, but you do need to watch out and may want to explain some parts.  In the storyline, the girl elephant wanders off by herself and accepts a boatride from a stranger...then she knocks on the door of an unfamiliar house.  Two male characters invite her inside and they all play together until they overhear a news alert that Babar is looking for his missing daughter, so they take her home. After reading it, I explained to my daughter that I didn't want her to wander off, accept boat rides from strangers or knock on unfamiliar doors and go inside a stranger's home.  This story was written in a simpler era when concerns were a bit different than in today's world.	2003-02-21
US	50452866	RTPAR44GXRJJF	0789428393	542680941	Sara's Potty	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Light-hearted and Engaging Introduction to the Potty	I like this book because it communicates all the important concepts related to potty training without taking itself too seriously.  It is also a lift-the-flap book, and these books  seem to hold toddlers' attentions a bit more than others.  I also like the way that at one point it depicts Sarah playing with the potty which is differentiated from Sarah finally using the potty.  It's nice for a book to make that distinction because often the first stage is for a child to play with a potty not fully understanding the concept.  I also like the way that it teaches that we should wash our hands after using the potty (one of the few books to do so).  Overall, a great way to introduce the idea of a potty--bright simple illustrations, just enough information, and a little humor thrown in too!	2001-07-11
US	50452866	RVQEIHPP0I7HO	0385481861	914614324	Ingles Hecho Facil	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Good in some respects, difficult to use in others....	Based on previous reviews, I expected a very easy to use resource that would work well for individual tutoring.  Perhaps it's just me, but I have been using this book for one-on-one tutoring for several months now and find it somewhat difficult to navigate.<br />First, the book is written primarily for a Spanish speaker and although I can figure most of the explanations out as I go along, it still can make it difficult for an English speaker to teach using this text.  It would be nice to find a book that would work equally well for a Spanish or English speaker.<br />Second, each sections starts with some type of theme story that presents several sentences in Spanish and English.  My concern is that my student seems overwhelmed by so many new words and sentences.  I know that this may help teach more conversational English, but I feel the vocabulary could be made more relevant to a new English speaker and the sentences presented after some new vocabulary had first been introduced.  <br />Perhaps my biggest problem is that there isn't a clear index or table of contents that helps me figure out what skills are being taught in each section.  It is not a very user friendly type book--it goes through the theme sections and presents concepts as it seems fit, but doesn't lend itself to finding a particular concept or jumping around within chapters.<br />I think this may very well be a fascinating book for Latinos and quite helpful in learning the English language, but I personally would not recommend it as the best way to go if you are tutoring someone.  The material is not indexed particulary well and the sequencing and amount of information presented in each chapter does not lend itself to an effective one-on-one approach.<br />So please don't vote my review as unhelpful if you don't agree with my comments.  I am just trying to offer my honest perspective from my personal experience...your mileage may vary!	2001-07-11
US	50452866	R1HSIDSD0NN1IE	1885904142	291822780	The Excellent Wife: A Biblical Perspective - Study Guide	Books	5	91	95	N	N	Get More Out of This Book--Slow Down, Think &amp; Pray!	Unfortunately, it has been my experience that the Christian book world is full of mediocre study guides with unimaginative exercises that fail to inspire or deepen the reader's experience.  Happily, Martha Peace's study guide is a refreshing change from this trend. &quot;The Excellent Wife&quot; is indeed excellent and well worth the additional time and money it will cost you. Whether you agree with her theology or not, whether you are reading this book by yourself or as part of a larger group, this guide will encourage you to examine yourself and your relationship with God and your husband.   <br />The study guide is broken down into chapters that correspond with the chapters in the book.  I especially appreciate the diversity in the types of questions within chapters. Some are a simple true/false, others ask you to consider scripture, to interpret a concept by applying it to your own life, or to take a moment to pray about a specific area.  At points, it may ask you to redraw a diagram from the book or summarize a key concept.  For some folks, this may seem like mindless repetition, but as an educator, I know that such exercises help us to internalize the information and reinforce ideas. <br />Living in a culture that is full of rush, rush, rush, this study guide does a good job of slowing us down and encouraging us to put the brakes on our reading experience. It is tempting to speed through a book, fueled by our enthusiasm or desire to check one more thing off our to-do list.  But we know that most real growth only comes slowly, after much reflection, prayer, and work.  This study guide encourages this type of slow growth and  helps us put a real foundation underneath our aspirations.	2001-03-16
US	50452866	RHK0YG6RMZZXE	0590117114	128388002	I Spy Little Animals	Books	5	60	60	N	N	Good Way to Teach Observation Skills	These board books are a smaller and simpler version of the original &quot;I Spy&quot; series. If you are not familiar with the &quot;I Spy&quot; series, the basic concept is similar to &quot;Where's Waldo&quot; in that you &quot;search&quot; for specific objects.  But in this case, the searching field is a series of photographs that depict varied and interesting items.  Each photograph has a particular theme and is full of colorful and inventive objects.  <br />The original &quot;I Spy&quot; books ask you to find many objects in each photo and can be very challenging.  My husband and I got a kick out of finding the objects ourselves and by no means breezed through the books.  These simplified board books are geared toward a much younger audience--they offer toddlers and younger children a way to play the same type of game.  The photographs contain only a handful of objects, and the reader is asked to find only two objects per page.  <br />My daughter really enjoys these types of interactive books.  They give her a chance to be &quot;proud&quot; when she finds whatever she's looking for.  There is also a similar series I would recommend called &quot;Find the Duck (Puppy, Piglet, Kitten, Teddy)...&quot; books.  In the &quot;Find the...&quot; series the child is looking for the same object throughout the book.  .  If you are interested, I wrote a review on that series where I go into more detail about them.<br />Overall, these are a nice way to interact with your toddler--they offer an opportunity to teach  patience and to carefully investigate things.  My only criticism is that I noticed that the photos that they use are just blown up portions of photos taken from their original series.  I wish they would be more creative and use entirely new photos.	2001-02-07
US	50452866	R1O4YQW83P6XRO	1576736741	26110350	Night Light: A Devotional for Couples	Books	5	140	147	N	N	Thoughtful Nicely Balanced Devotional	I came across this devotional in the bookstore a few weeks ago and was initially attracted to the book because the salesperson said that she was getting great feedback about the book and that they were selling very well.<br />After spending more time with the book, I can see why.  This devotional strikes a nice balance of being thoughtful and thought provoking without getting too intense.  To be honest, through the course of our marriage we have tried several devotionals with mixed success:  we found some dry and boring, others trite and kind of goofy, and many overly ambitious so that devotional time just felt too much like work! Dobson's collection is balanced-the selections are managable in length, yet meaningful in content.  When it does include a few discussion questions, they are good ones that open up interesting and important conversations.  Also the format of the devotionals vary.  Some may tell a story illustrating a point, others are more general and comment on a particular area in marriage, so that the overall feel of the book is not too formulaic.<br />If you are looking for a new devotional to build your marriage, a book that will open up areas for discussion, I think that you will be quite pleased with this one.	2001-01-18
US	50452866	RJUY3DR4N9QD7	1580890172	770867	It's Raining, It's Pouring (Nursery Rhyme)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Great Pictures but Weird Rhyme Additions	This board book extends the traditional rhyme, &quot;It's raining it's pouring, the old man is snoring, he bumped his head and went to bed and couldn't get up in the morning.&quot;   For instance, another rhyme starts, &quot;It's windy, it's breezy&quot; and &quot;It's snowing, it's blowing...&quot; etc. The illustrations are thoughtful, colorful, and visually interesting, but as the Horn Book reviewer notes, the new rhymes are not particularly appropriate...some are kind of weird.  For example, one is &quot;It's snowing, it's blowing, the old man is growing, he ate too much one day for lunch now every part of him is showing.&quot;   I'd like this book better with different rhymes.  I enjoy creative extensions of traditional rhymes (like I really like Iza Trapani's Itsy Bitsy Spider, but this book just didn't do it for me.	2001-01-13
US	50452866	R1TGH9VI2IGQ55	0860207145	962045773	Find the Duck (Find it Board Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cute Interactive Children's Book	My 18-month old likes this book a lot.  The concept is simple, the book doesn't have any words...instead, it consists of a series of illustrations where there is a duck on each page.  The illustrations center around the bathtime theme, so for example, in one picture, the duck is hiding in the folds of a towel, in another he's on top of the medicine cabinet, in yet another he's hiding in the bath bubbles.  For whatever reason, my child derives great joy from finding the duck in each picture and saying &quot;duck!&quot;  In a few of the pictures, there is more than one duck; for instance, in one picture the little girl is holding a book that also has a duck illustration on it...so there are ways you can get more sophisticated with things.  Also, I will expand the idea by asking &quot;where is the toothbrush&quot; or other object.  The book offers illustrations that are interesting to talk about in more than one way.   A favorite in our house!	2001-01-04
US	50452866	R3J03H7EM3BFD1	0689832850	539641192	The Nutcracker: Classic Collectible Pop-Up	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Delicate &amp; Elaborate Pop-up Version	This version of the Nutcracker would be most appropriate for an older child who would be patient enough to listen to a longer version of this classic story and who would be gentle enough not to abuse the delicate pop-ups.  The format of this version has the text on the left side of the page, then on the right side, there is a &quot;box&quot; to open which reveals a three-dimensional pop up.  Often the pop up has several layers of depth within each illustration and usually it also has a lever to pull which makes something happen within the pop up (like one makes a toy ballerina spin and another makes the waves and swan boat move back and forth).  The text itself is rather extensive; there are several paragraphs of story per page.  Because there is only one pop-up for such a long segment of text, one draw back is that the listener must be willing to imagine a lot of the events and be content with fewer illustrations.  Overall though, this is a very nice pop-up adaptation of a timeless classic--the pop-ups manage to capture some of magical beauty of the ballet, and it would be a great addition to any child's Christmas library.	2000-12-28
US	50452866	R1DTV8WWHICB1P	0763612790	756675063	Merry Christmas Maisy	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Bold Colors, Simple Text and Illustrations	This is a good Christmas book for a younger toddler or child.  Although it is not a board book, the pages are made of a heavier paper stock and will withstand some abuse.  Maisy's Christmas story is consistent with the style of her other books: lots of bold primary colors and simple illustrations that younger children seem to prefer.  Throughout the book, there are also flaps to lift and shiny objects.  Overall, if you like the Maisy books, I'm sure that you will find this one a good addition to your Christmas collection.<br />My only mild complaint is that the focus of the book seems to be entirely on the material side of Christmas with presents taking center stage.  I know that this book is for very young children, and I'm not suggesting that every book have a heavy handed message, but it would be nice for more books to touch on the larger spirit and message of Christmas.	2000-12-28
US	50452866	R1K1A506WUNPD1	0824941837	207126026	Story of Mary	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Simple &amp; Biblically Accurate Version of the Christmas Story	I like this retelling of the Christmas story for several reasons.  One is that it retains most of the details of the Biblical text.  It begins with the visit from the angel Gabriel, follows Mary on her trip to visit her cousin Elizabeth, and then goes with Mary and Joseph when they have to travel to Bethlehem, through the birth of Jesus and the visit by the Magi.  The illustrations are simple, but not too cartoonish as with many Christian children's texts.  Thankfully, the characters look somewhat Middle-Eastern in appearance and have darker hair and eyes.  This is a nice way to introduce an accurate version of the the Christmas story without overwhelming a child.	2000-12-28
US	50452866	R3DQHWZT6ZYZT3	0809139022	378682908	Transforming Fire: Women Using Anger Creatively	Books	3	5	22	N	N	Sorry, but I found this book to be too inclusive &amp; unhelpful	This work is so inclusive that it is inconclusive.  The authorattempts to summarize various perspectives about women's anger fromChristian, Judaic, and Buddhist perspectives.  The problem is that shedoesn't do justice to any of these faiths because she just picks andchooses the pieces of each belief system that agree with her veryfeminist perspective.  She is particularly fond of Carol Gilligan'swork, so if you like Gilligan's works, you may also like this book.If you consider your own beliefs to be &quot;new age,&quot; you willalso probably enjoy this book.  However, if you are a practicingChristian, or Jew, or Buddhist, I suspect that you, like me, will notfind the work particularly insightful or helpful.	2000-12-23
US	50452866	RL03HMTIJRH0L	0671729241	903996951	Jingle Bugs	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Cute and Creative Christmas Book	My 18-month old daughter loves this book.  The interactive elements are inventive and thoughtful.  I also appreciate the quality of the rhyming text (sometimes the pop ups are cute, but the text is a mere boring afterthought), and there are a variety of different types of activities.  Sometimes things pop up, other times there is a lift the flap.  There is a bug ornament that you take out of the envelope and hang on the tree (which she loves to do again and again...I get so tired of that page!)<br />If you are looking for a Christmas book that is interactive and a little bit different, this fits the bill.<br />My only complaint is that the battery for the star on the last page has worn out, and it's not replacable!  They should make it replacable like with so many other battery powered books.	2000-12-19
US	50452866	R1F5NOMDMX4JXW	0689831048	138544488	The 12 Bugs of Christmas: A Pop-up Christmas Counting Book by David A. Carter (David Carter's Bugs)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great Pop ups--Cute Adaptation of 12 Days	I am a big fan of David Carter's bug pop up books.  At first the concept seems a bit odd and off setting, but they really are cute bugs, and the interactive elements are quite thoughtful and inventive.<br />This book goes through the song &quot;The Twelve Days of Christmas,&quot; but makes up new words that are related to his buggy creations.  Throughout the book, you open each present (lift the flap), to see the bugs inside.  Inside each package is some type of pop up element (my favorite is the one that comes complete with tinsel).  Each is creative, delicate (as one reader mentioned), and attention getting.  <br />My only reservation about this book is that the interactive elements are not as diverse as in his other Christmas book, Jingle Bugs.  With this book, it is basically entirely lift the flap, whereas the other one has different types of activities throughout.  However, I do like the fact that you can sing to this one (a great plus in keeping little ones interested).	2000-12-19
US	50452866	R17LBWU7WI72T2	0307121607	399810364	Pat the Christmas Bunny	Books	3	27	29	N	N	A luke warm adaptation--not as good as it could be...	First let me say that I am a Pat the Bunny fan.  We bought Pat the Christmas Bunny for our daughter last Christmas because she liked the regular Pat the Bunny book so well.  Unfortunately, after two Christmas seasons, I've concluded that this book lacks the charm of the original-- she never reaches for it and frequently loses interest in the middle of a reading. <br />One point of criticism is that the interactive activities are not very engaging.  As with the original, there is a page to pet Pat the bunny, who is wearing a holiday scarf, but surely they could shake things up a bit and be more inventive. Other activities include a paper pencil to write a Christmas list, a tobogan to pull, a page where you lift Judy's arm to put the star on the tree, and a candy cane to sniff, but my daughter doesn't seem to care much about any of them.  Another criticism of this book is that it is not especially durable, in particular for a book that markets itself to younger children.  I have to closely monitor her so that she doesn't rip the tobogan off its track.<br />Simply put, Pat the bunny deserves a better Christmas adaptation...one that retains the charm of the original.  If you are a Pat fan, you'll still want to have this in your Christmas collection, but there are better interactive Christmas books out there that I would buy first.  For example, check out David Carter's two Christmas books.	2000-12-19
US	50452866	R121L4MRVLL01F	1879085690	635254018	The Itsy Bitsy Spider	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A classic version where the spider's the star!	I've read a few versions of this classic rhyme and like this adapatation the best.<br />First, I like it because the spider is prominent in the  storyline and never becomes overwhelmed by other elements.  I know this may  sound hard to believe, but in another version I picked up, the illustrator  was so enamoured with the other animals that the spider was pretty much a  second thought.  Also, in other versions, they make the spider too small.   I know some folks may not like spiders and think the smaller the better,  but hey, he's the star of the story!<br />But the thing that most sets this  version off from the rest is its inclusion of additional verses.  This  version goes on to tell you what happens after the water spout.  The extra  verses all work together and make the storyline complete. So, if you are  like me and find yourself singing this song a lot, you will appreciate the  new verses to shake up your routine. <br />Finally, I appreciate the quality  of the illustrations.  Nothing too radical, just a cute little spider and  lots of colorful and cheerful surroundings. The illustrator doesn't get too  cutesy like they sometimes do, and the illustrations fit with my  preconceived ideas about what the things in this rhyme &quot;should&quot;  look like.	2000-09-11
US	50452866	R1LW9J91RHGMD4	068982095X	409691306	ABC (Jan Pienkowski Board Book Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Simple and Colorful ABC Alphabet--Good for the Very Young	This is a simple book, nothing spectacular, but what it does, it does well.  Like most ABC books, it goes through the letters of the alphabet and  shows a picture that starts with each letter.<br />I like this version because  the drawings are inventive and the colors are bold.  It's a great board  book for a toddler because the bright colors and clean lines will hold  their interest.	2000-09-11
US	50452866	R1LK5L4F1ZCJ2C	076360609X	13197007	Country Animals (Romantic Days and Nights Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Colorful book that has a folksy feel to it	I like this book because it features different animals that my daughter might actually see outside a zoo.  For example, we see squirrels all the  time.  I also like the way that there is only one animal per page.  Younger  children prefer uncluttered pages and too much on a page is a sure way to  lose their interest.  Also, the illustrations are not too literal.  They  have kind of a folksy feel to them, though they are also readily  identifiable.  One minor legalistic bone to pick:  my husband says that a  deer shouldn't have both spots (like a doe) and antlers. Oh well!	2000-09-11
US	50452866	R2MBR7WMMM42FA	0152000356	193887322	To Market, To Market	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny Offbeat Story	This story adapts a traditional children's song by pulling it into our contemporary world.  Most of us don't go to the market anymore to buy a  whole pig or cow, and the illustrator highlights this gap in time by  showing what happens when one woman does bring all these animals home. The  result is both thoughtful and silly:  I love a children's book that doesn't  take itself too seriously! <br />As you can imagine, the animals run loose and  create havoc in the kitchen while the overwhelmed woman goes back to the  market for more things.  Finally in desperation, she buys a bunch of  vegetables and makes them all soup!  <br />It's an artsy little story that you  can read over and over again without getting bored. The illustrations are  witty and creative throughout. I appreciate inventive touches in this book,  like the black and white background juxtaposed against the color  foreground.  Also, I like the way the market background is reminiscient of  an earlier time period, perhaps the 50's or 60's?	2000-09-11
US	50452866	R26VEKSMML6PXM	0310281113	653319171	All the Parables of the Bible	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Extremely Thorough Reference for Parables	Although this may not be a ground breaking text with new and exciting  theories, it is an excellent resource for anyone who wants to understand  the parables of the Bible better.  The book discusses parables in both the  Old and New Testaments.  You can look up the parable by the chapter and  book that it appears in, and there is also a way to reference them by  topic/subject.<br />I've used this commentary a lot in my Bible studies  because it is very thorough and even handed.  Lockyer breaks the parables  down item-by-item, point-by-point, then summarizes the dominant critical  interpretations of each one. Because his treatment is extensive, the  commentary for a single parable will often run for several pages.  <br />I  appreciate the clarity that his summaries bring to the text.  Also, he is  careful to admit that we can over interpret things and for the most part,  manages to avoid this tendency.  He asserts his own interpretation for each  parable, but not in a know-it-all fashion.<br />This book challenges me to  think about what God wants us to learn through these stories.  They are  like little puzzles, and I am fascinated to think about all the different  ways they can be interpreted.  Also, this book has cleared up some parables  that were downright confusing.	2000-09-06
US	50452866	RI7AHPR5AAVTI	156156883X	124152267	Get Dressed With Elmo	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bright Colors and Baby Friendly	This is a good-sized cloth book that comes with a carrying case.  It's a perfect book for my one-year old  because the bright colors attract her,  and the pages are easy to turn.  Perhaps best of all, it would be very  difficult to destroy this book (unlike so many interactive books).  The  storyline is that all the gang from Sesame street is getting ready to go  play.  Along the way, the book teaches different dressing skills (zipping,  buttoning, buckling and velcroing).  Although my daughter is too young for  these skills, she can still interact with many of the other pages.  On our  way home from the store, I gave it to her in the car, and it kept her  occupied the whole way home.  It's a great book for the car because it's  soft and safe.	2000-08-25
US	50452866	R18C3KR7GZMB6J	1567313450	8074022	All Creatures Great and Small/All Things Bright and Beautiful	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A Book for the Family Book that Well Read Aloud	One day when we were looking for a good book to read, my husband picked  this book from the clearance shelf despite my protests.  Truthfully, I  thought the book sounded a bit boring...not my type of storyline at all.    But I must admit that I was wrong, this turned out to be a charming book  with memorable characters.  This particular edition is also a good value  because you get two works in a one hard cover edition at a very reasonable  price.  And once you read &quot;All Creatures Great and Small,&quot; you  will want to read &quot;All Things Bright and Beautiful&quot; because it  continues where the first story leaves off.<br />One nice thing about both  books is that the chapters are, for the most part, self-contained.  This  makes it easy to read one story, and if you don't have time to get back to  the book for a few weeks, you can pick up right where you left off.  There  is a general plot that unites the whole and some characters reappear or run  throughout, but overall it is an easy book to keep up with.  <br />I also  found it fascinating to learn about the life of a country vet.  Through the  stories I discovered the ins and outs of veterinary medicine and little  facts about farm animals.  The individual chapters vary a great deal in  topic or mood.  Some are comic, others tragic, and others just make you  pause and ponder some aspect of life.  The main character's life is so  different than my own that it was  nice to escape into his world. And, by  the end of the first book, the characters and their animals had won my  heart.<br />Herriot is most skillful with his indirect characterization.  He  rarely comes right out and tells you what to think about a character.  Instead, he has a knack for telling you about people through their own  dialogue and actions. Then, you are left to draw your own conclusions from  those details.  Personally, I enjoy this method as I find it more  interesting to think about things myself than to be &quot;told&quot;  them.<br />Another positive is that this book is excellent to read aloud. My  husband and I read aloud to each other at night, and this has been one of  the easiest books to follow.  It wasn't too complicated, and the stories  were interesting and generated conversation.  I think it'd be a super book  to read as family because it appeals to a broad spectrum of ages and  teaches little lessons about life along the way.  <br />These stories are a  good investment--I'm glad we have the hardcover edition because I'm sure  we'll read them again.	2000-08-24
US	50452866	R2YY1OJPTFWB7Q	0310214378	454853722	Where Is God When It Hurts?	Books	5	94	99	N	N	Enlightening book that shuns simplistic views about pain...	Even if you are not a Christian, and even if you are not facing severe  pain, this book is worth reading.  It's worth reading because it will give  you fascinating insights into the human body.  It's worth reading because  it will broaden your perspective after reading about people who have faced  tremendous pain.  And if for no other reason, it's worth reading because  Philip Yancey is a great writer.  His writing style is pithy, yet never  brusque.  He skillful balances journalistic fact, personal narrative, and  theology in a way that few others can.  <br />If you are struggling with  physical or psychological pain, you will find a friend in Yancey.  He  approaches this topic respectfully, without simplistic answers and tears  back a bit of the mystery surrounding the problem of pain in this world.  I  know I'll never come across a work that can answer all or even most of my  questions, but I appreciate an author that will jump in the sticky battle  for answers with a sharp eye for truth and a spirit sensitive to God's  voice.<br />The beginning part of this book explores pain from a physical  perspective.  It touches on time that Yancy spent with Dr. Paul Brand who  works with leprosy patients and investigates how pain is useful from a  biological perspective.  As the book moves on, Yancey's scope widens to  address other aspects of pain and suggest some ways that God might be using  pain.  <br />However, at no time was I left with that troubling feeling that I  sometimes get after someone quotes that verse about God using all things  for our good.  Yancey allows that it is much more complicated than that, at  least from the perspective of this lifetime.  Instead Yancey (much like  C.S. Lewis) confronts these pat solutions and champions the cause of all of  us who struggle to reconcile the seeming paradox of a compassionate God who  is Lord over a pain-filled world.	2000-08-23
US	50452866	R2E2WY357G2QX	0694010677	154783132	Color Zoo Board Book	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Colorful book that uses shapes in an ingenious way	My daughter (who is only one) loves to flip through this book and look at the different colors and shapes.  Because each page has a shape cut out of  it, this makes the pages easy for her to grasp and flip.  Out of all of her  board books, I find myself reaching for his one time and time again because  it occupies her the longest.  In contrast to some books that she will  barely look at and others she will look at only with my direction, this  book is one that she will find all on her own and quietly flip through the  pages.<br />Even for me, I find the concept simple but mesmerizing.  There is  something fascinating about looking at the shape and seeing how the animal  changes into a different animal as you flip the page.  It makes you think  about shapes and colors in a very abstract way.  <br />I would definitely  recommend this book as a foundational block in any young child's library.   The book itself is sturdy and the colors are bold and vivid.  It's a great  concept that's been executed effectively.	2000-08-22
US	50452866	R3B1XEN7HGMW7C	0874860830	344077527	I Tell You a Mystery: Life, Death, and Eternity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Poignant Vignettes About How Ordinary People Face Death	Arnold's book begins:  &quot;Are you afraid of dying?  Have you ever  worried about growing old, about becoming a burden to your children?  Do  you wonder how you would survive the loss of your spouse, a parent, a  child?  Is someone you love facing illness or death?  Whether consciously  or subconciously, every person inevitably faces these questions at one  point or another.  It is in search of answers to them that I have written  this book.&quot;<br />Arnold searches for these answers in the stories of  ordinary people he's known who have faced death. He tells each story well  in that he doesn't over dramatize the circumstances or struggle to justify  God's ways.  Instead, he lets each life speak for itself and allows that  death is a great mystery indeed.<br />After losing my father, I read several  books about pain, loss, grieving, and death.  I enjoyed this work because  it featured many perspectives, allowing that death is very much an  individual experience, shaped by upbringing and personality.  It was  instructive and comforting to read about how other Christians have faced  tragedy and illness.  I also like the way he included photographs of the  people because it made me feel closer to them.  <br />This is a quiet little  book that you can read in a few sittings or savor bit by bit.  It will  leave you pondering life, death, and God's plan for creation.  I appreciate  Arnold's perspective because his sadness is tempered by his knowledge that  the universe is ruled by a loving and merciful God who has not left death  as the final word.	2000-08-22
US	50452866	R2V4X3Q5KT2I0Z	0310925681	232154362	NIV Study Bible	Books	5	167	167	N	N	I love this version...still the best on the market!	Every time I go into the Christian bookstore, I see a new jazzed up  version of the Bible.  There's the Men's/Women's Devotional Bible, the Life  Application Bible, the Teen Bible, the One Year Bible, on and on.  However,  I have yet to find any version worthy of replacing my faded, water stained  and worn NIV study Bible.<br />The thing I like best about this Bible is that  it is helpful without being intrusive.  If I want to just read the text,  fine.   It's nicely printed with some room for my own little musings on the  side margins.  The type is not so small that I am straining my eyes, nor is  it overcrowded.  The pages are necessarily thin, but not so thin that the  text on the other side is bleeding through.<br />And, if I ever want help with  the text, the notes are right below, ready to offer me concise insights or  suggestions for further reading.  These notes never waste my time--they are  meaty and substantial.  If I took the time to read every text note, I could  spend hours in just one chapter.  I must admit that sometimes I have! There  are times when I just lose myself in the notes, as they may reference  another section, which may lead me to explore another section, and so on.   I can read a few notes and move on or set off on a major journey...either  way, the notes are like having a wise friend beside me. <br />Another nice  feature is that next to the text, there is a narrow column that lists all  places in the Bible where a similar line or thought appears.  This feature  is very helpful when tracing a theme or idea.  At the back, there is a  detailed index and a significant concordance, which I find myself referring  to constantly.  Again, it's great for tracing themes or finding a  particular verse.  <br />Each book begins with a very thorough introductory  section which gives you a balanced picture without overwhelming you. In  addition, the Study Bible is full of illustrations, charts and maps that  are woven throughout the book at appropriate times.<br />I got this version  when I first became a Christian seven years ago, and it has been a  tremendous aid in my spiritual growth. I would highly recommend it to  anyone, but especially to new Christians who are not sure which version to  invest in (the choices can certainly be overwhelming!).  I would also  strongly recommend it to folks who are not Christian, but just interested  in learning more about the Bible.  This version is not &quot;preachy,&quot;  and offers you historical insights along the way.	2000-08-20
US	50452866	RDNREK25ORLQR	0310925681	761911697	NIV Study Bible	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I love this version...still the best on the market!	Every time I go into the Christian bookstore, I see a new jazzed up  version of the Bible.  There's the Men's/Women's Devotional Bible, the Life  Application Bible, the Teen Bible, the One Year Bible, on and on.  However,  I have yet to find any version worthy of replacing my faded, water stained  and worn NIV study Bible.<br />The thing I like best about this Bible is that  it is helpful without being intrusive.  If I want to just read the text,  fine.  It's nicely printed with some room for my own little musings on the  side margins.  The type is not so small that I am straining my eyes, nor is  it overcrowded.  The pages are necessarily thin, but not so thin that the  text on the other side is bleeding through.<br />And, if I ever want help with  the text, the notes are right below, ready to offer me concise insights or  suggestions for further reading.  These notes never waste my time--they are  meaty and substantial.  If I took the time to read every text note, I could  spend hours in just one chapter.  I must admit that sometimes I have! There  are times when I just lose myself in the notes, as they may reference  another section, which may lead me to explore another section, and so on.  I can read a few notes and move on or set off on a major journey...either  way, the notes are like having a wise friend beside me.<br />Another nice  feature is that next to the text, there is a narrow column that lists all  places in the Bible where a similar line or thought appears.  This feature  is very helpful when tracing a theme or idea.  At the back, there is a  detailed index and a significant concordance, which I find myself referring  to constantly.  Again, it's great for tracing themes or finding a  particular verse.<br />Each book begins with a very thorough introductory  section which gives you a balanced picture without overwhelming you. In  addition, the Study Bible is full of illustrations, charts and maps that  are woven throughout the book at appropriate times.<br />I got this version  when I first became a Christian seven years ago, and it has been a  tremendous aid in my spiritual growth. I would highly recommend it to  anyone, but especially to new Christians who are not sure which version to  invest in (the choices can certainly be overwhelming!).  I would also  strongly recommend it to folks who are not Christian, but just interested  in learning more about the Bible.  This version is not &quot;preachy,&quot;  and offers you historical insights along the way.e times.<br />I got this version  when I first became a Christian seven years ago, and it has been a  tremendous aid in my spiritual growth. I would highly recommend it to  anyone, but especially to new Christians who are not sure which version to  invest in (the choices can certainly be overwhelming!).  I would also  strongly recommend it to folks who are not Christian, but just interested  in learning more about the Bible.  This version is not &quot;preachy,&quot;  and offers you historical insights along the way.	2000-08-20
US	50452866	R3IY9KKRP5JQAX	084230889X	853409913	The Focus on the Family Complete Book of Baby and Child Care	Books	5	54	59	N	N	More Comprehensive than Most	When it comes to parenting books, I've been there done that.  I've read the &quot;What to Expect&quot; series, the &quot;Girlfriends Guides,&quot;  the Mayo health books, etc.  What I've found is that each one does its own  thing well: &quot;What to Expect&quot; is good at topical,  &quot;Girlfriends&quot; is funny, Mayo is medical.  But sometimes, I just  get tired of so many books!  What makes Focus on the Family's book great is  that it manages to do so many things well that you can safely eliminate  some of these others.  In fact, I think it's the best and most  comprehensive child care book on the market.<br />The guide is comprehensive  because it covers children from birth through adolescence.  I think this is  an important distinction that many books overlook.  Just because our  children get bigger doesn't mean that they need less attention.  Actually,  some of them need even more attention in the teenage years than most any  other time.  <br />I also like the way that the book addresses all areas of a  child: physical, mental, and spiritual.  It discusses divorce, child abuse,  depression, eating disorders, and sexuality, right along with all the more  traditional topics.  Perhaps more important, the guide discusses the values  that are behind our philosophy as Christian parents.  How refreshing to  know that I can consult an even-handed book with a Christian perspective.   Its tone is always thoughtful, educated, and respectful.<br />Some other  noteworthy features are at the back.  There is a very thorough reference  section that is over a hundred pages long and lists most illnesses and  medications.  Behind that is an emergency section that covers bites, burns,  bleeding, CPR, etc.  Next there is an annotated list of additional  resources for various topics, a very detailed index, and finally a series  of growth charts, color drawings of the human body and photographs of  different skin diseases to help you identify them.<br />All and all, this is  an excellent and thoughtful guide no matter where you are on your parenting  journey.	2000-08-18
US	50452866	R1LIF06QYKSYL0	0553274864	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	148	153	N	N	An honest book that doesn't try to simplify grief	This work chronicles Lewis' struggle to come to terms with the death of  his wife.  Because it comes from his private journals, it may not seem as  &quot;polished&quot; as some of his other writings.  Personally, I  appreciate the way it reveals the innerworkings of a very emotional and  private man.<br />In contrast to many works, this book doesn't try to simplify  grief, justify it, or dance around the issue with pat observations or  cheery reminders.  Instead, it dares to question those very tactics.  Lewis  allows himself to feel a broad range of emotions, including doubt and great  despair.  I love this quality in Lewis:  he is one of the few Chrisitian  writers who is brutally honest about his fears and anger.  His writings  allow that God is big enough to handle our toughest questions.<br />This  little book is full of images and ideas that will stay with you long after  you've finished it.  Lewis takes feelings that you can't quite pinpoint and  eloquently puts them into words.  As I read the book, I kept thinking to  myself &quot;Yes, THAT'S what I feel too!&quot;  Misery does love company,  and Lewis is excellent company.<br />As usual, Lewis is full of astute  observations and points to ponder, but don't expect a bunch of clean and  pretty answers.  At the end, his grief is still very much a work in  progress, which is definitely how it has been in my life....a journey.	2000-08-18
US	50452866	RRRF1G727B3LV	1572240423	422120234	Flying Without Fear	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Arm Yourself With Facts NOT Fear!	This book has been instrumental in my battle against fear of flying.  I've owned the book for almost a year  (through six flights), and it has helped  me to confront my biggest fears.<br />The first part of the book helps you to  understand the physiology of fear.  Usually I tend to skim over sections  like this, but I found the information in this case to be quite helpful  because it helps you to understand how your fear has developed and that  there are different types of fears with regard to flying.  For example, I  may be afraid of heights whereas another person may be clastrophobic, so  you have to treat these fears individually.  There is also a checklist in  this section to help you identify your specific areas of fear.<br />Then the  author moves on to several sections that help you develop &quot;a valid  information base.&quot; For me, these sections were key.  I have gone  through these time and time again, underlining and memorizing bits of  information.  Most of this information is in a question and answer format,  so it is easy to skim until you find the questions that interest you most.   The sections address everything you could possibly want to know: The  Airline Industry, Pilots and Training, Personnel Other Than Pilots,  Questions about Pilots, Aerodynamics, Flight Planning and the Flight  Itself, Weather, Turbulence, Terrorism and Bombs, and Miscellaneous  Questions.  My favorite statistics are that the death rate risk per flight  is one in eleven million and that air travel is 20 times safer than by car.   The remainder of the book discusses coping strategies and information  about developing your own flight plan.<br />If you are debating about whether  to buying a book which addresses your fears, I would definitely encourage  you to do so.  I remember when I first looked for a book and wasn't sure if  I really needed one or which one to get.  After doing some research, I  settled on this book, and it's been a great investment in peace of mind.It's well organized, clearly presented, and full of reassuring information.   So go ahead, don't let unrealistic fears limit your experiences in  life...fight back!	2000-08-17
US	50452866	R10FPWJN9F2ICI	0805412883	658416418	The Bible Alphabet: A Pop-Up Book	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Intricate pop ups are very nice	In this book, each letter of the alphabet appears on a square box and when you lift the flap, a biblical concept or symbol that starts with that  letter pops up.  The pop ups are made of plain white cardstock and quite  intricately designed. I liked the fact that the pop ups were uncolored and  somewhat abstract, as that encouraged you to use your imagination. They did  a very nice job with the pop ups, and many are quite inventive.  I also  liked their choice of concepts....some I remember are: a for arch, e for  eden, v for vine, x for exodus, z for zaccheus.<br />My only criticism is that  they lay out eight blocks for every two page layout.  So the meat of the  book consists in those six pages.  I might suggest doing four symbols every  two pages...this would spread things out more and give more room for the  pop up parts.<br />Overall, though, a beautiful book that held my daughter's  interest.	2000-08-17
US	50452866	R22JHVJLXVYPRJ	0789441772	692279936	First Meals	Books	3	572	593	N	N	Pretty Presentation But Short on Substance	I've read most every baby food/nutrition book on the market.  This book is by far the prettiest: it has beautiful color illustrations that make you  feel as if feeding your baby will be an exciting and colorful journey.   However, once the romance of the first feeding is gone (and after you've  scrubbed dried brown banana off your child's tray for the thousandth time),  I fear that this book will get lost in the dusty recesses of your kitchen  bookshelf, as my copy has.<br />My main criticism is that the book doesn't  deliver what the cover promises: &quot;Fast, healthy, and fun foods.&quot;   The book should be subtitled &quot;Fun foods to make if you are in culinary  school and have a whole lot of free time on your hands.&quot;  Check out  these suggestions: vegetable croquettes, apple, mango &amp; apricot muesli,  paella, chocolate profiteroles &amp; puff pastry mice.  Even the purees are  exotic and complicated:  dried apricots with semolina, spinach, potato,  parsnip &amp; leek, tasty ground meat with rutabaga &amp; tomato.  Now if  someone wants to really knock themselves out for a special occasion, I  think that these menu suggestions could be very inspirational.  But, the  average parent just needs someone to tell them that they can steam carrots  in the microwave with a little water then mash them with a fork.  <br />I  really lost hope when I noticed that they devote an entire page to  &quot;making purees with a mouli.&quot;  Where would I even begin to find a  mouli, and if I did, where the heck would I find room to store it?  Have  these folks never heard of a food processor or blender?  Why make life so  complicated? I've got to imagine that the authors of this book live a very  priveledged life or that they've never had small children clinging to their  legs! <br />I also think that the time estimates for the recipes are  inaccurate.  Many of the recipes involve quite elaborate decoration  suggestions, yet the prep time is listed as only 20 or 30 minutes.  Again,  the pictures are lovely, and I really do wish my food could be so  inventive.  But the pictures remind me of the Christmas cookie covers of  magazines that showcase all those elaborately decorated cookies that I  could never hope to reproduce.  Hey, we are not talking high art here, a  good day for me is when there is more food in the baby than there is on the  floor.<br />Another complaint I have with this book is that it covers too much  ground without much depth.  This book begins at birth and goes to five  years, and it's only 145 pages.  With so much space taken up with glossy  pictures and exotic recipes, there is not much room to cover any one topic  effectively.  <br />All in all, I think this book might be a good supplement  cookbook to have.  You might pull it out some day when the sun is shining  and you are feeling especially ambitious.  But, on the average day, I can  think of five other cookbooks I'd pull out before it.	2000-08-16
US	50452866	R21NG394CMN1CF	0843178965	408674388	Jungle King (open sesame)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cute Concept--Sturdy and Well Made	This book is one of my daughter's favorites.  Each page features a jungle creature who claims that he is &quot;king of the jungle.&quot;  The corner  of each page is hinged though and pulls out to reveal a different creature  who then claims, &quot;No, I'm king of the jungle!&quot;  At the end, there  is a little mouse who says &quot;Everyone knows who the king of the jungle  really is!&quot;<br />The storyline is just OK, but the quality of the  illustrations is very good...bold, glossy and high interest.  Also, the way  that the corner of each page pulls out is inventive and captures childrens'  interest.  It's a good way to practice motor skills and different in  concept than most interactive books.<br />Another good feature is that this  book is very sturdy and hard to destroy (a plus with a grabby toddler).   Unlike so many pop up books that are easily pulled off or apart, I'm not  afraid to let my daughter handle this one on her own.  She can work the  pages on her own and the book is holding up beautifully.<br />Overall, a nice  book for a toddler...not too many words to overwhelm them, simple concept,  good for motor skills, solid construction, and attractive illustrations.	2000-08-16
US	50452866	RB8387RE7ET9L	0840749740	369084258	002: Thru the Bible, Vol. 2: Joshua-Psalms	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Supplementary Commentary	If you are not familiar with J. Vernon McGee or his style, I would suggest  that you try a single volume paperback commentary first to see if you like  it. McGee reminds me of someone's grandfather...wise, opinionated,  down-to-earth, and even gruff at times. If you have ever heard his radio  broadcasts (from which these commentaries are derived), you know what I  mean. McGee has a strong and distinct style, and he is always pressing us  to seek God's will in our lives fervently. You can't fault the honesty of  his vision or spirit! These commentaries give you McGee's interpretation of  each chapter of that particular book of the Bible. The thing I like best  about his commentaries are that they are fresh and interesting. He rarely  gets tied down in seemingly obscure details or debates. If he has an  opinion, he'll tell you exactly what it is and why without beating around  the bush like so many other bible commentaries. Although I don't agree with  all of his opinions, I respect his perspective, and rarely do his works  leave me without something to &quot;chew on.&quot; This is also the only  commentary that I have that can actually leave me laughing aloud at some  point he's made. He had a great sense of humor!<br />I would recommend this  series of five volumes to any student of the bible. They are a great  commentary for the every day person, unintimidating and understandable.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R1WGZQ05N8SSYX	0374311501	65814000	Carl's Birthday	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Birthday &quot;trouble&quot; keeps life in perspective...	All of the Carl books are thoughtful and creative, though this one is my favorite so far.  I love making up the words for each of the books.  The  format definitely encourages analysis and discussion in a fun way.  Little  ones must look carefully and closely at each picture and think about how  they choose to interpret the events.  This book would make a timely  birthday gift as well.  <br />The basic premise is that &quot;Mom&quot; sends  Carl and the baby girl (now a toddler) next door for their naps so that she  can prepare for Carl's surprise birthday party.  Of course, mischievous  Carl and the baby sneak back and get into everything before the party.   <br />This story is full of sweet little details (Carl receives a toy sized  Rottweiler which they can't seem to get rewrapped quite right.  Carl takes  a bite out the cake and disguises it with a carefully placed flower.   Somehow, all the toys that Mom picked up end up back out and under the  party table....what Mom can't relate to that one!)<br />But most of all, I  appreciate the free spirited theme that underpins these books.  For me,  they are a reminder that all of the details that seem so critical are  really just a means to a bigger end.  In the end, it's the spirit and joy  of childhood that is important, a spirit that Carl and that little girl  epitomize without saying a single word.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R2PYKBHHDNACVN	1565073541	74610979	The Power of a Praying Parent	Books	5	100	102	N	N	Powerful Little Book of Prayer	This book is a great resource that belongs on every parent's bookshelf.   The market is brimming with books detailing the physical and behavioral  development of children, yet so few of these books even admit that there is  a spiritual side of things!  If we want to care for all facets of our  children, we must admit this truth into our lives.  &quot;Power of a  Praying Parent&quot; fills this gap by pointing out spiritual realities and  suggesting ways that we can cover our childrens' lives with our  prayers.<br />The book is divided into managable chapters that highlight  different areas where we can pray for our children.  Each chapter starts  out with an explanation of that area, followed by a prayer, and closes with  scripture verses for reflection.  I like this format because it is very  adaptable.  You could skip right to an area where you know that your child  needs prayer, or you could start at the beginning and faithfully read each  chapter as a general guide.  Because the chapters are short, you could use  a chapter as a devotional each time you pray.  I also appreciate the way  the scripture verses are typed out so that I don't have to spend time  looking each one up.<br />Omartian's tone is never heavy handed.  Along the  way, she admits her short comings and shares her struggles, and I always  feel as if I have a wise but gentle friend whispering into my ear when I  read her works.<br />This is an excellent gift for parents who are expecting  or for a parent struggling with a teen.  Because the tone is so welcoming  and compassionate, I also find it's a great witnessing tool.  People who  may be otherwise closed to the gospels are sometimes open to anything if  they think that it may help their child.  I'd also recommend this book to  uncles, aunts, teachers, grandparents, youth workers, basically anyone who  is interested in the welfare of our children.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R1NCTREBF2KDNI	0840749767	625506073	Thru the Bible, Vol. 4: Matthew-Romans	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Supplementary Commentary	If you are not familiar with J. Vernon McGee or his style, I would suggest  that you try a single volume paperback commentary first to see if you like  it. McGee reminds me of someone's grandfather...wise, opinionated,  down-to-earth, and even gruff at times. If you have ever heard his radio  broadcasts (from which these commentaries are derived), you know what I  mean. McGee has a strong and distinct style, and he is always pressing us  to seek God's will in our lives fervently. You can't fault the honesty of  his vision or spirit! These commentaries give you McGee's interpretation of  each chapter of that particular book of the Bible. The thing I like best  about his commentaries are that they are fresh and interesting. He rarely  gets tied down in seemingly obscure details or debates. If he has an  opinion, he'll tell you exactly what it is and why without beating around  the bush like so many other bible commentaries. Although I don't agree with  all of his opinions, I respect his perspective, and rarely do his works  leave me without something to &quot;chew on.&quot; This is also the only  commentary that I have that can actually leave me laughing aloud at some  point he's made. He had a great sense of humor!<br />I would recommend this  series of five volumes to any student of the bible. They are a great  commentary for the every day person, unintimidating and understandable.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R2DLUA7JKQUNB4	0840749759	778450102	Thru the Bible, Vol. 3: Proverbs-Malachi	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Great Supplementary Commentary	If you are not familiar with J. Vernon McGee or his style, I would suggest  that you try a single volume paperback commentary first to see if you like  it.  McGee reminds me of someone's grandfather...wise, opinionated,  down-to-earth, and even gruff at times.  If you have ever heard his radio  broadcasts (from which these commentaries are derived), you know what I  mean.  McGee has a strong and distinct style, and he is always pressing us  to seek God's will in our lives fervently.  You can't fault the honesty of  his vision or spirit!<br />These commentaries give you McGee's interpretation  of each chapter of that particular book of the Bible.  The thing I like  best about his commentaries are that they are fresh and interesting.  He  rarely gets tied down in seemingly obscure details or debates.  If he has  an opinion, he'll tell you exactly what it is and why without beating  around the bush like so many other bible commentaries.  Although I don't  agree with all of his opinions, I respect his perspective, and rarely do  his works leave me without something to &quot;chew on.&quot;  This is also  the only commentary that I have that can actually leave me laughing aloud  at some point he's made.  He had a great sense of humor!<br />I would  recommend this series of five volumes to any student of the bible.  They  are a great commentary for the every day person, unintimidating and  understandable.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R2JMG9QG0XV4GC	0840749570	189884657	Genesis through Revelation (Thru the Bible 5 Volume Set)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Great Supplementary Commentary	If you are not familiar with J. Vernon McGee or his style, I would suggest  that you try a single volume paperback commentary first to see if you like  it. McGee reminds me of someone's grandfather...wise, opinionated,  down-to-earth, and even gruff at times. If you have ever heard his radio  broadcasts (from which these commentaries are derived), you know what I  mean. McGee has a strong and distinct style, and he is always pressing us  to seek God's will in our lives fervently. You can't fault the honesty of  his vision or spirit!<br />These commentaries give you McGee's interpretation  of each chapter of that particular book of the Bible. The thing I like best  about his commentaries are that they are fresh and interesting. He rarely  gets tied down in seemingly obscure details or debates. If he has an  opinion, he'll tell you exactly what it is and why without beating around  the bush like so many other bible commentaries. Although I don't agree with  all of his opinions, I respect his perspective, and rarely do his works  leave me without something to &quot;chew on.&quot; This is also the only  commentary that I have that can actually leave me laughing aloud at some  point he's made. He had a great sense of humor!<br />I would recommend this  series of five volumes to any student of the bible. They are a great  commentary for the every day person, unintimidating and understandable.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R19UCGSKJ6931M	0840749732	57883172	001: Thru the Bible, Vol. 1: Genesis-Deuteronomy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Supplementary Commentary	If you are not familiar with J. Vernon McGee or his style, I would suggest  that you try a single volume paperback commentary first to see if you like  it. McGee reminds me of someone's grandfather...wise, opinionated,  down-to-earth, and even gruff at times. If you have ever heard his radio  broadcasts (from which these commentaries are derived), you know what I  mean. McGee has a strong and distinct style, and he is always pressing us  to seek God's will in our lives fervently. You can't fault the honesty of  his vision or spirit! These commentaries give you McGee's interpretation of  each chapter of that particular book of the Bible. The thing I like best  about his commentaries are that they are fresh and interesting. He rarely  gets tied down in seemingly obscure details or debates. If he has an  opinion, he'll tell you exactly what it is and why without beating around  the bush like so many other bible commentaries. Although I don't agree with  all of his opinions, I respect his perspective, and rarely do his works  leave me without something to &quot;chew on.&quot; This is also the only  commentary that I have that can actually leave me laughing aloud at some  point he's made. He had a great sense of humor!<br />I would recommend this  series of five volumes to any student of the bible. They are a great  commentary for the every day person, unintimidating and understandable.	2000-08-15
US	50452866	R2USJZUT55OL0Y	0486404277	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Historical Perspective Will Help You Appreciate This More...	I must admit that I wasn't &quot;wowed&quot; by this book after I finished  it.  I'll even confess that I was mostly glad to be done with it. However,  I've learned not to make hasty judgements about works, to spend time  reflecting and researching in hopes of broadening my appreciation and  understanding.  My research has helped me resolve questions regarding why  Defoe stressed some things to tedium while leaving out other more  interesting details. <br />For example, as many have noted, he goes on and on  and on about his projects on the island.  The modern reader may tire of  reading description after description about his cave and livestock and  cooking methods.  I thought to myself, &quot;I know these people didn't  have TV, but why would they want to know every cotton picking detail!&quot;    During my research, I learned that the reason for the detail was that  Robinson was concerned about demonstrating mastery over his environment  because that was a high priority during that time period.  The most  successful men learned how to work an environment to maximum efficiency.   Men were concerned with conquering the land and establishing their  dominance over others as well.  This also explains why Robinson is more  interested in learning how to live well on the island than in getting off  the island.<br />Then there were other times when the book started to get more  interesting, only to find Defoe skip off to a new topic.  For example, I  kept waiting and waiting for Friday to enter the storyline, and I assumed  that he would be a great buddy of Robinson's.  I was disappointed to learn  that Friday didn't enter unless very late in the novel and that even when  he did, Robinson wasn't very attached or concerned about him as a person.   Again, after doing some research, I learned that their relationship  reflected standard ideas at the time regarding masters and servants.  There  was an established hierarchy back then that regulated human relationships  back then, whereas things are much more fluid and democratic these days.   The concept of individual human rights did simply not exist in the form it  does today.<br />So, although this work will never be my favorite, I have come  to understand the people and values of that era better because of it.  It's  interesting to think about how so many basic ideas have changed since then.	2000-08-14
US	50452866	R7H14JSDB1WY8	0671871056	506904053	Carl Pops Up	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Carl is a classic, but this pop up is not!	First let me say that I love the Carl books, especially &quot;Good Dog Carl.&quot;  I love the concept, the way that you get to make up your own  words.  Most of the Carl books are inventive and endearing classics.  In  fact, perhaps the reason that I am so disappointed with this adaptation is  that I am holding it to this same high standard.  The Carl books are  awesome; however, this pop up version is just OK, at best.<br />I agree with  the Horn book review which notes that the pop up and interactive parts are  not especially creative.  Perhaps this is because they took a story that  was not specifically designed for a pop up format and made it pop up.  At  any rate, I think they could have been more ingenious in their choice of  what they made pop up or move.  <br />Also, there is one page where Carl and  the baby are looking in Mommy's mirror that is downright ridiculous.  The  page is designed to move so that it looks like they are blinking, but  instead, the eyes just look freaky like something out of the Exorcist!   Very strange.<br />Surely such an excellent book deserves a better pop up  adaptation.	2000-08-11
US	50452866	R1CKG3IB6RDAEA	0802471633	68938172	Read Aloud Bible Stories: Volume 1	Books	5	57	60	N	N	A fresh and graphically interesting retelling...	In my search for quality Christian books for children, I have been more disapointed than not.  Many books out there are heavy handed, poorly  illustrated, and often downright boring. Encouragingly, this book succeeds  in areas where many fail.<br />The author and illustrator (like Jesus) exhibit  a sharp awareness of audience.  They resist the urge to cover too much  material (a sure way to bore small children) and instead concentrate on  telling just five stories well.  The first volume includes the story of  Zaccheus, the healing of Bartemaeus, Jesus welcoming the little children,  the calming of the storm, and the healing of ten men.<br />The text captures  the enthusiasm and spirit of each story.  Albeit, the word choice can get a  bit cutesy at times, but in general the stories are told effectively and in  a fashion that makes for good oral reading (as the title claims).  At the  end of each story, there is a page that briefly summarizes a few of the key  points in the story (ie., what the child is supposed to get out of it).   Some may find this a bit heavy handed, but I really liked this touch.   Repetition is great for children, and it encourages them to reflect on each  story and apply it to their lives (modeling good reading skills).<br />The  abundance of bold illustrations capture children's attention.  Whereas in  some children's bible books, the illustrations are predictable and more of  an afterthought, in this series, they take center stage.  The pictures are  vivid and uncomplicated, incorporating strong lines and bold colors. I  appreciate the illustrator's ingenuity  and variety of perspective.   <br />Overall, I think that this series is a great foundation block in any  children's library.  Good job!	2000-08-11
US	50452866	R1SZKVQ9EOE50X	061303421X	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany a Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of those books that you hate to see end...	This is one of the best books I've ever read, one of my all-time  favorites.  It will wrap you up in its spell and take you on a trip through  a great range of emotions.  It is the type of story that you never want to  finish because you hate to say goodbye to the characters.<br />Irving's  characterization is exceptional in this work.  The character of Owen Meany  is one of the best drawn and most compelling characters in all of  literature.  He's an old man in a young boy's body...annoyingly precocious,  but prophetic....confident, yet vulnerable.<br />However, the thing I like  best about the book is that it combats the idea that life is random and  that we are just part of an out of control universe.  I tire of that  depressing and simplistic perspective which seems to dominate 20th century  literature.  Instead, Irving's novel suggests that the smallest and  greatest events in life have tremendous meaning, that they all are part of  an intricate and amazing plan.	2000-08-11
US	50452866	R3VDMGVAYTWJMD	0316777153	542133795	The Family Nutrition Book: Everything You Need to Know About Feeding Your Children - From Birth through Adolescence	Books	5	28	31	N	N	An interesting  and eye opening nutrition book	This book was interesting to read (and I am NOT a nutrition nut).  I especially like the way it is divided into managable chapters that tackle a particular concept (fish, oils, brain foods, anti-cancer foods, vegetables,  milk, yogurt, etc.)  <br />It takes potentially daunting concepts and makes  them understandable to the layman.  For example, the chapter on fats  finally helped me understand all the jargon out there about saturated and  unsaturated fats, hydrogenated oils, etc.  This information has made me a  better consumer and mother...now I know what to look for on labels. <br />It  is also very readable because it incorporates many lists and side bars that  highlight key concepts and insights.  These items make it easy to skim  through and glean a bit of information about many things without feeling  overwhelmed by a bunch of dry and boring facts.<br />I also liked the way that  Sears explains how certain foods impact our body.  He uses many analogies  to help the reader understand what occurs during the digestion process and  why particular foods lead to optimum health.<br />Although I could never  incorporate all of their suggestions, the book does a great job of giving  me some goals to shoot for.  It has helped me understand why some foods are  bad and others better.  The book has inspired me to look at eating in an  entirely different way and to make efforts to improve my family's health.	2000-06-03
US	50452866	R29QUZIRCRLYA	1558193324	494962118	Holman Bible Handbook	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Good introductory overview, easy to follow	This book is a good general help for those interested in learning more about the bible.  It is full of colorful illustrations and charts and hits the highlights of the bible without overwhelming the reader.  The handbook  has been created by a wide scope of scholars and is therefore even handed  in its representations and information, though admittantly sometimes a bit  dry.  It provides background information on the bible, historical  information, and commentary on each section of the bible.  Overall, a solid  overview and a good reference for the beginner or intermediate student of  the bible.	2000-06-03
US	50452866	R34GACMRS75L7A	073641004X	718858574	Knock, Knock! It's Pooh! (Busy Book)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Knocker on book is poorly designed	The storyline of this book is fine, and I like the way that theknocker incorporates an interactive element to things.  The reader isinstructed to knock along in various styles...soft, loud, three times,etc.  However, the book was poorly designed because the knocker is very difficult to grasp by either an adult or child.  This renders knocking frustrating! Why would not such an obvious problem occur to the publisher?  If there was more of a knob or part of the knocker stuck out more, something more to grasp, this flaw could be eliminated.  Unfortunately this book is a classic example of form over function, cuteness over common sense.	2000-05-02
US	50452866	RSYBKXKW5TAGU	0898866901	443098371	Bradford Washburn: Mountain Photography	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Amazing Photographs....	I saw an exhibit of this photographer's work at the Boston Mueseum recently.  I especially like the way that his work makes you realize the scope and magesty of natural landforms and the beautiful patterns that echo throughout natural landscapes.  The photographs are black and whites and  frequently emphasize light and darkness.	2000-05-02
US	50452866	R1L7Z6O3ZNL7QG	0439149991	497699607	Clifford Barks!	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fun story with barking noise	My daughter loves this book...especially the barking noise.The storyline follows Clifford as he goes through his day encounteringvarious situations and people.  The main idea is that Clifford barksat most everyone and everything because, as the last page notes, &quot;Clifford's bark means `I like you.'&quot; The concept is simple, but I like the book because the drawings are colorful and varied.	2000-05-02
US	50452866	ROAO70IWJSNDC	0395185599	960579524	Curious George Gets a Medal	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A Classic  Curious George Fiasco...	The basic storyline is that Curious George gets himself into a heap of trouble, and the more he tries to fix the situation, the worse it gets.  <br />I did not feel that the story advocated George's tactics (stealing,  etc.).  All of the things that George does are obviously the wrong way of  going about things...he doesn't earn the medal for any of his foibles.  In  fact, when George is caught it says &quot;he felt so ashamed, he almost  wished he were dead.&quot;<br />Of course, as in other George stories, the man  with the yellow hat shows up to save the day, and he redirects George to a  more appropriate use of his intelligence.<br />It may not be one of the great  moral masterpieces of our civilization, but it's vintage Curious George--a  classic from a simpler era when everything wasn't hyper analyzed.	2000-03-25
US	50452866	R1O0EG89YJGIVZ	0590442961	230872318	Clifford Gets A Job (Clifford 8x8)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An OK storyline with the classic Clifford character...	The storyline and pictures are classic Clifford, the good old Clifford I remember from my childhood.  However, the actual story is not particularly inventive (Clifford tries all different kinds of work as a way to finance  his dog food).  Some scenes are cute, and you've got to love poor Clifford  who can't seem to do anything right.  Of course, things work out for him in  the end.<br />If you are a Clifford fan, I'd add this one to your collection.   If you are not, this book won't make you a convert.	2000-03-25
