US	50452306	R32E2LQJGYCNY8	0871138441	25047675	Birders: Tales of a Tribe	Books	5	8	11	N	N	In pursuit of a life list	I don't doubt that persons uninitiated in the brotherhood of birding and who may have may picked this book up out of curiosity, after reading it may very well be tempted to say &quot;life-list? forget that! Please, get a life!&quot;. Cocker understands and he has all the traits of a serious birder instantly recognizable to other members of the species. We are just a little bit defensive at times, especially when having to explain our obsession. And yes, we may be a touch overly sensitive but we do tend to react negatively to those goggle-eyed, mouth-slightly-agape ostrich-like stares of total incomprehension that usually greet us when describing our wondrous hobby. Cocker though is a great advocate because he has an abundance of that vital birding necessity - a self-depreciating wit - and a sense of humour that prevents taking oneself or their sport too seriously. That his adventures and &quot;Tales of a Tribe&quot; about BIRDERS are very well written just adds to the enjoyment of this book.<br />Cocker is not a mere bird-watcher. Outside of the US the UK has more of his particular species of birder than most other countries. This is the serious afficionado who travels cross country and around the world in pursuit of rare birds, spends good sums of money on gear such as photographic equipment and state-of-the-art optics. A person who right after introducing himself - &quot;Hi, I'm Michael&quot; - will prove that he's probably beyond recovery by asking &quot;how many birds have you gone?&quot; Were I living in the UK like the author I would be tagged as something colloquially known as a &quot;Twitcher&quot;. <br />Each birder has a story about a particular quest that is their most memorable trip but few can match experiences with the characters that Cocker introduces us to. There's Clive Byers, a bird artist, who in pursuit of a rare bird trespassed on a farm and for which the farmer rewarded him by hosing him with liquid  manure. Unpleasant as that certainly was itwas largely harmless. Cocker shows that it's not always so and there can be dangers  involved. He's poignant in telling the tale of the disappearance of a friend while on the trail of a rare Asian pheasant. His own encounters seem to have been fairly benign, and as he does throughout the book, he finds the humor. On a trip to Spain in search of great bustards he would not be denied. Most of us would speed up and keep driving if &quot;immense white guard dogs the size of wolves&quot; grabbed and twisted the door handle of our car with their teeth and gave us the &quot;impression that these were carnivores used to getting their food from a tin can, one the size of a moving Citroen ZX&quot;. Cocker is happy to report that the dogs eventually &quot;left us to concentrate on our mission&quot; and he recounts a richly rewarding sighting of over two dozen extremely rare great bustards.<br />This book offers many enjoyable anecdotes about exciting birding trips. Equally as interesting as the birds is Cocker's insights into the birders themselves. Cocker has as much to say about our eccentricities as he does about the behavior of birds. It's not always clear which is stranger but as Cocker shows it's always entertaining. Most enjoyable of all is the joie de vivre with which he writes which is really what the best birding experiences are all about anyway.	2002-05-28
US	50452306	R19YZ5I5CQJIY1	0471410764	930147587	Atlantic: The Last Great Race of Princes	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Twelve days, four hours, one minute, and nineteen seconds	Mention this time to any serious sailor you know and they'll usually respond it's the schooner Atlantic's time across its namesake ocean in the 1905 Kaiser's Cup race. Well maybe they  won't remember the name and date of the race and that it was from Sandy Hook, New Jersey to Lizard Point in Cornwall, England, but it's a fair bet that they will know that it was an incredible race and remains a remarkable yachting accomplishment. <br />Indeed Atlantic set a crossing record and while the time has since been bested, it's only a few that have done so and only fairly recently, and most significantly, only with custom-built boats designed specifically for that purpose. It required a carbon-fibre, hydrofoil trimaran to first beat the record in 1980. The Atlantic was a 185-foot-long steel three-masted schooner weighing 206 tons. The best compliment still paid to her is that every few years yachtsmen hold the Atlantic Challenge Cup. This is not named in recognition of the ocean on which they race, but instead is a nod to the still formidable challenge this yacht of yore holds for modern racers.<br />Scott Cookman does an excellent job giving us a feel for the Atlantic and the thrilling race. He also brings alive the times, the places, and the people involved. Kaiser Wilhelm II suffused in Germany's imperial glow was the one who proposed an open race across the Atlantic. The German cruiser Pfiel would be stationed at the finish line ready to fete the winner and award a gold cup. The Kaiser could afford to be so magnanimous because with his own personal yacht - the 143 ton schooner Hamburg - in the race, he was certain of victory.<br />Cookman vividly describes the racing conditions during this 11  yacht race. Quickly a smaller yawl Ailsa, the Atlantic, and the Hamburg established themselves in the lead. Fog had initially delayed the start but once underway and at sea, freshening winds sped the contestants along. Cookman reports that the logbooks indicated strengthening windsas the race progressed but it is to a famous story the he turns to give us a true glimpse of what it was like on deck. Atlantic was owned by millionaire Wilson Marshall and he had invited a few guests on board for the race. The hired skipper was a dour Scotsman named Charlie Barr who as an experienced sailor, relished the opportunity afforded him by this splendid yacht and took full measure of it, mercilessly pushing the Atlantic onward. During the height of a storm and supposedly fearing a catastophe, Marshall came up on deck to demand his boat be reigned in by shortening sail. Captain Barr shouting above the noise of the storm told Marshall &quot;you hired me, sir, to win this race, and by God, that's what I am going to do&quot;. He promptly ordered the owner below.<br />The Atlantic did win, beating Hamburg by almost a day. With her nearly 19,000 square feet of sail she completed the 3,000 mile race at an average speed of over 10 knots. On her best days she covered over 350 miles at close to 15 knots. In addition to the splendor of ATLANTIC and it indeed being &quot;The Last Great Race of Princes&quot;, Cookman's book tells us a little about the owners of these boats. We learn about the sailing lives of those princes of industry: J.P. Morgan, Thomas Lipton, and Alexander Belmont. All had entries in the race.<br />This is a well written and thrilling tale of a fantastic yacht race. It will obviously be appreciated by sailors but it has a much broader appeal. Anyone with interest in not just maritime history, but history in general, will enjoy the descriptions of the people and times of Victorian England and our own age of big industry egos.	2002-05-26
US	50452306	R1583ECMUITD3K	1559639458	141545441	The New Economy of Nature: The Quest to Make Conservation Profitable (A Shearwater Book)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Cash and the environment are now the same shade of green	Much of traditional environmental science reading is the harbinger of doom and suffers from one of two typical responses. (1) Reader fatigue from too many unremittingly bleak books or (2) Annoyance with increasingly strident chicken-little's. What a refreshing break it is then to read the optimistic views in THE NEW ECONOMY OF NATURE. And it's not because this book is in denial about the problems that exist. Nor is it deceptively panglossian like that bit of statistical chicanery offered by THE SKEPTICAL ENVIRONMENTALIST. What this book does very well is offer an alternative to the tried, tested, and failed approach of environmental/corporate confrontation.<br />There has long been an awareness of the services that natural systems such as forests, wetlands, streams, tropical reefs, and oceans provide. Water purification, flood control, and climate regulation for instance. This book continues a recent trend in environmental science writing which is now putting a value on such free services. Others go further and quantify, in dollar terms, what the replacement costs for these ecosystems would be. (E. O. Wilson in THE FUTURE OF LIFE for instance). Because the numbers are so mind-boggling and impossible for any government to contemplate, it is a very effective technique for driving home the importance of these extremely valuable and fragile systems. As the authors say &quot;it's time to begin figuring out how to assign economic value to ecosystems and the services they provide, and incorporate those values into public policy.&quot;<br />The real value of this book is in the examples it offers. Rather than a discussion of environmental policy, Daily and Ellison focus on real solutions being implemented right now by entrepreneurs, visionary scientists, committed corporations, and active local governments. It's interesting also that most of the answers originated in the human imagination rather than in some new technological advancement. More than anything else this is thesource of the authors inspiration. It proves that people are actively re-thinking their approach rather than blithely waiting for a solution from on-high by gadget gurus. <br />In their opening chapter &quot;Katoomba and the Stratosphere&quot; Daily and Ellison talk about the Katoomba Group which represents just the sort of people leading this paradigm shift. Other innovative approaches are found in chapters titled &quot;New York: How to Put a Watershed to Work&quot; and &quot;Costa Rica: Paying Mother Nature to Multitask&quot;. In the New York example the shift in thinking was to look at trees as something more valuable than lumber, recognize the contribution of standing forests to water purification and then to preserve them accordingly. City officials realized that it was more cost effective to protect watershed lands than to build a new filtration plant. The books ten chapters each give examples of similar such solutions. Most are within the Americas but &quot;Down Under: How To Make a Numbat Turn a Profit&quot; is a typical tale of outback ingenuity.<br />The authors admit that the movement is not yet widespread and innovative thinking is still not the norm. Nevertheless their enthusiasm and convincing optimism makes the message of their Epilogue: &quot;The Revolution in the Wings&quot; one that is believable and more importantly, something in which we can actively participate.	2002-05-26
US	50452306	R1NS755MQR2H1D	0393041638	125161689	Mutiny on the Globe: The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Murder most foul but also popular history at its best	Many aspects of this senseless mutiny on board a Nantucket whaleship in the south Pacific in 1824 are fairly well known. There were many contemporaneous accounts of the MUTINY ON THE GLOBE. Two that are used by Heffernan are those of an officer on board the US navy ship Dolphin than went in rescue of the Globe's crew, and the account written by George Comstock, an eyewitness to \\"The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock\\" and younger brother to the murderous leader of the mutineers. George's narrative comprises one of the books appendices. <br />Since Heffernan is a historian, the facts are important and are given their due, but because he's an excellent writer the real enjoyment for readers is in his telling of the tale. The real interest is where it always is in these tragedies at sea - the people, the places, and  the purpose of it all? Is there a point to mutiny or are we left to conclude that there was simply something bloody-minded about sailors in centuries past? There is no doubting that 21-year-old \\"terrible whaleman\\" Samuel Comstock was a violent man. Heffernan tells us that \\"at the age of twelve he carried pistols and daggers\\", played war games and frequently had violent fantasies. After his first trips at sea his Quaker siblings noted that \\"there was nothing left in his eyes\\". But surely this is insufficient evidence for Heffernan to claim that he was a \\"malignant narcissist\\" and a \\"sociopath\\". As we read on however we see the truth of it. Half way through the book the night of mutiny and murder occurs. Twenty-nine year old Captain Worth, First-mate Beetle and other officers were dispatched. Heffernan is unflinching in his description of Worth's demise saying \\"they ran the boarding knife through his body and drove it home with a blow from an axe; it entered below the stomach and came out the neck.\\" I repeat what Heffernan wrote for one reason only. This more than anything else will convey to the reader both the degree of Comstock's depravity and the intense, emotive power of Heffernans writing. <br />Comstock got his comeuppance and not too long after either. His bizarre dream of an island kingdom with him as ruler never came to fruition and died with him on the sands of Mili Atoll in the Marshall Islands. With the central character gone what's left for Heffernan? The remainder of the book is merely a shift in emphasis but loses nothing in interest. The story is now that of the six crew members (inclusive of 15-year-old George Comstock) who managed to sail the Globe some 7,000 miles to Valparaiso, Chile, and also the nine men (quickly reduced to two) who stayed behind on the island. The US navy sent out the schooner Dolphin under the command of Lt. \\"Mad Jack\\" Percival to rescue the remaining crew. The ship arrived some 18 months later and was greeted by the loin-cloth clad two youngest members of Globe's crew who were living a life of semi-slavery and part-adoption to the islanders. This book is rich with the human drama of the rescued (William Lay and Cyrus Hussey) and the rescuers, set against the backdrop of island life, the role of the US Navy in the Pacific, the whaling industry, and the social and economic life of Quaker Nantucket.<br />If it were not a true story and Heffernan were not a historian you wouldn't be blamed if after reading this you came away thinking \\"what a rollicking good nautical yarn!\\" It's not but because it feels like that is perhaps the best recommendation for this fine work of popular history.	2002-05-26
US	50452306	R3IFXUIAWTJGFZ	0743222172	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	5	13	14	N	N	"Oh Captain! My Captain!"	This book is evocative of the sorrow and loss at sea of which Walt Whitman wrote so emotionally. In contrast to Whitman's poem however, here the vessel - the steamship Arctic - did not make it to port, and rather than a son mourning for his lost father it was the other way around. The Captain of the Arctic, James C Luce, was grief-struck as he helplessly watched his son and the vast majority of the passengers drown in the frigid north Atlantic some fifty miles off Cape Race, Newfoundland. <br />The story has its origins in competition between the UK and the US. In 1840 Britisher Samuel Cunard inaugurated steamship service on his Royal Mail Steamship Line (the Cunard Line). In 1848 he brought the competition to the US by making New York his base for transatlantic crossings. By now Cunard was operating a fleet of ten ships that provided a regular schedule of steamship service between Liverpool and New York. Cunard had also raised the ire of US officialdom. Shaw quotes a US Senator as saying \\"America will soon become tired of being informed now of British maritime supremacy.\\" Shaw says the response was \\"a new breed of steamships, stamped with American ingenuity and backed with the might of the US Treasury [whose] sole purpose was to 'cast this man Cunard from the sea'\\". Three such steamships built for this purpose were the Atlantic, Pacific, and the Arctic. They belonged to the United States Mail Steamship Company or the Collins Line as it was more popularly known - named after its owner Edward Knight Collins. Collins we are told was a man bent on \\"maintaining schedule and setting records whenever possible.\\" The Arctic was a 3,000 ton, wooden paddle-steamer and was the largest, most luxurious, and fastest of the line. She set a record in 1852 making the New York to Liverpool crossing in ten days.  <br />The fateful voyage of the Arctic took place in September 1854. In command was Captain James C Luce. There were over 400 aboard with  more than 300 being passengers; therest comprised the \\"black gang\\" (as the stokers for the boilers were called) and the ship's officers. Among the passengers was Luce's son and E.K Collins' wife Mary and two of their children. Everything was routine as the Arctic set off from Liverpool but she shortly ran into a rolling fog bank. Luce maintained his course and speed of thirteen knots, but unknown to him, a French steamer called the Vesta had also entered the fog. The Vesta was a much smaller ship at 250 tons but she had iron cladding and when the two collided bow on, the larger wooden Arctic came off much the worse. This wasn't immediately apparent and Luce, fearing he had crippled and sunk the smaller ship, lowered one of his lifeboats as rescue. What was supposedly a  mission of mercy to another ship soon became a desperate attempt to save his own as Luce soon discovered that the Arctic had been pierced in three places and the ship was taking on heavy water through a five-foot gaping hole. <br />Shaw's description of the ensuing events is where the book is at its compelling best and we are caught up in it. As the reality that soon THE SEA SHALL EMBRACE THEM all sank in, the best and worst of humanity emerged. Cowardice and bravery were on display, more of the former than the latter. Captain Luce ordered full speed ahead, but while she was still some twenty miles offshore with land tormentingly just in sight, the ships paddles stopped as the engines flooded. The Arctic quickly began foundering and Luce gave the order to abandon ship with women and children to be put in the boats first. There were not enough boats for all those remaining and the stokers were not inclined to wait while a raft was hastily built. They mutinied and brushed passengers aside and stormed the lifeboats. One brave officer pulled his pistol but before he could restore order a stoker bashed his head in with a vicious hit from a shovel.  <br />Forty-five persons made it into the raft before the Arctic sank and all told only 85were eventually rescued. Captain Luce lived but was witness to what he described as \\"a most awful and heart rendering scene\\" as \\"men, women, and children were struggling together amidst the pieces of the wreck of every kind calling on each other for help, and imploring God to assist theem.\\" Neither Luce's son, nor Collins' wife, only daughter, and youngest son were rescued. Tragically there was not one woman or child among those saved. <br />What became of the survivors? The Vesta made it to port with minor loss of life. As is usually the case with such tragedies, where blame can not be properly ascribed, it falls on the Captain. Luce received a minor official reprimand and gave up the sea for a job ashore in maritime insurance. Of much greater pain would be the personal anguish of losing his son and the accusatory words of E.K. Collins ringing in his ears. The ships owner said Luce \\"had practically murdered his family\\".<br />If you like  sea stories, naval history and geography, with a little bit of 18th century US and British industrial and shipping history thrown in then you'll thoroughly enjoy this well written and thrilling tale of a little known maritime tragedy.	2002-05-25
US	50452306	R2RBA0199PXPD8	0805062289	488313432	Eye of the Albatross: Views of the Endangered Sea	Books	5	21	21	N	N	More than just winging it	As a vice-president of Audubon, the founder of their Living Oceans program, a contributor on fishery management policy-making, the author of SONG FOR THE BLUE OCEAN, and an early life as a fisherman, Carl Safina is certainly not simply &quot;winging it&quot; when it comes to discussing oceans and their environmental health. <br />This book is beautifully written and is a passionate call for us to care for our oceans. It offers all the following: natural history, study of a bird species, travelogue, environmental science, oceanography, cultural and economic commentary, and finally, a geography and history lesson. Starting where he always does, Safina begins with a focus on his main interest - the huge ecosystem that is the worlds oceans. We take the perspective of the masters of the oceanic skies - the albatross - and Safina is creative in using a tagged and satellite-tracked individual bird &quot;Amelia&quot; to give us a unique look through the EYE OF THE ALBATROSS. <br />Safina is somewhat of a romantic visionary and has a gift for the poetic phrase. The images however are not all about beautiful seascapes, tropical islands and exotic ports-of-call. Hardly. His description of a feeding scene between a mother albatross and her chick at a nesting colony is literally gut-wrenching. After being fed by its parent on regurgigated squid &quot;the chick begs for more. The adult arches her neck and retches again. Nothing comes&quot;. Although Safina has a penchant for criticizing human economics and uses this case to do so, we can't help but see his point as he continues. &quot;Slowly comes the surreal sight of a green plastic toothbrush emerging from the bird's gullet. With her neck arched, the mother cannot fully pass the straight brush. She tries several times to disgorge it, but can't.&quot; The economic message from the perspective of the albatross seems to be that &quot;consumer culture permeates every watery point on the compass.&quot;<br />There is no doubt that the intention of this book is to evoke emotions that will bring about action to ameliorate environmental conditions. To that extent Safina is a scrupulous scientist and he makes us sit up and take note when he says that in addition to the 80 million tons of sea creatures that fishing annually harvests from the worlds oceans, there is a further 20 million tons of &quot;unwanted&quot; fish, seabirds, and marine mammals that gets &quot;thrown overboard, dead.&quot; Safina was instrumental in banning drift-nets and is now working to make fishing grounds &quot;sea-bird-safe&quot;. He and others are proposing changes in long-line fishing. In Alaska alone 14,000 sea birds are lost annually when they drown after swallowing baited hooks and get entangled in the nets. A change such as dyeing the bait so that birds can't see it would seem to be a fairly straightforward solution. The labyrinth official, diplomatic, and political obstacle course that must be navigated however means that nothing is simple. <br />Safina is a steady advocate for change and remains optimistic. He keeps us soaring with our bird guide. Why not, as &quot;almost everything about the albatross is superlative and extreme.&quot; We learn that they can live for more than fifty years and over a lifetime can log about four million miles flying. They routinely go on 2,000 mile foraging trips. Wandering is not only the name of the largest of the species (diomedea exulans) it is also the most appropriate adjective to describe these wondrous birds. They can be found from the Antarctic to the far north and frequently fly through both tropical and frigid north Atlantic stormy skies in a single voyage. <br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable journey and an environmentally educational experience with a unique birds-eye view written by an artistic wordsmith.	2002-05-24
US	50452306	RR1XIDSD687VQ	0140271694	551695850	Russia's War: A History of the Soviet Effort: 1941-1945	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Total-itarian warfare	The value of this study is that it puts RUSSIA'S WAR in a political and social setting. The military campaigns are all here  starting with Barbarossa which commenced on June 21st, through the battles of Moscow, Leningrad, and the siege of Stalingrad. The tank battle of Kursk in 1943 is appropriately the mid-point of the book as it marked the turning point in the war. From here on the story is one of Russian resolve culminating with the eventual drive on Berlin in the spring of 1945. Overy's emphasis throughout is his recurring theme that these battles, the societies at large, their armies, and the reaction of the people (particularly the Russian peasant), can not be fully understood without reference to the political systems that governed all. The totalitarian nature of the two beligerent states had a significant say in how the war was conducted. This was especially so as the states so closely reflected the respective leaders. Overy's chapter &quot;The Cult of Personality: Stalin and the Legacy of War&quot; is a fine exposition on the Russian manifestation of this. <br />The book is useful in another context. In Antony Beevor's recent book THE FALL OF BERLIN 1945 readers engage the Red Army in 1945, just before the attack on the German capital. Beevor does not deal with the build up to that epic battle. Here Overy provides an excellent historical background to the final denouement of the Third Reich. He provides a framework for understanding why, from the Russian perspective, Berlin was such an epic and emotional event and remains shrouded in the myth of the &quot;Great Patriotic War&quot;.	2002-05-23
US	50452306	RN9TFK8NZ80YN	0195150775	390607009	Minding Animals: Awareness, Emotions, and Heart	Books	5	52	58	N	N	Imagine what we'll know tomorrow	This is of course based on the premise that we know animals are not sentient, don't have emotions, and that there is no such thing as animal culture. Stick-a-pin. This is no different than our most recent scientific truth. We knew for a fact that once we read the Human Genome and identified its 100,000 to 140,000 genes we would be able to confirm our unique complexity. Wait a minute. We did that already, right? And how many genes do we have? Try between 30,000 to 35,000. Now ponder this: the functions for over a half of our discovered genes remains unknown. As I said, imagine what we'll &quot;know&quot; tomorrow. I believe that shortly we will confirm that animals have a vibrant and adaptable culture, a rich emotional life, and consciously communicate among themselves and are self-aware. I give it 25 years. Certainly within a generation there will be a new paradigm that most naturalists will be operating with, and science such as Bekoff's won't be seen as &quot;anecdotal&quot;, &quot;folk-tales&quot;, &quot;pop-culture&quot;, or radical anthropomorphism. <br />Cognitive ethology (the study of animal intelligence) is a young science and like so many newer studies it has its fair share of critics. Interestingly much of the criticism comes from within other current fields of study (sociobiology and evolutionary psychology for example). Bekoff tackles these issues head on and if you have read a little in this field you'll know that this means engaging some of our brightest thinkers - Daniel C Dennett, E.O Wilson, Marc Hauser, Noam Chomsky. A lot of the debate about animal intelligence centers on language and communication. Primatologists such as Jane Goodall and Franz de Waal, like Bekoff, tend to argue that human capacity for language is an inappropriate criteria for determining animal intelligence. <br />This is an overly simplified summary of Bekoff's field of study and his explanations are much clearer. The book however is much more than a scientific primer on cognitive ethology. No longer does naming animals, loving them, and anthropomorphizing detract from the scientific study of their behavior. Bekoff shows that by MINDING ANIMALS scientists are able to get fascinating insights into behavior. Stories here about dreaming rats, thinking bees, and happy elephants, far from being anecdotal, are now shedding new light onto behavior such as grooming, dominance, mating, and feeding. <br />It was less than twenty years ago that it was discovered that elephants communicated by ultrasound and only recently did we find out that African Grey parrots understand concepts such as size, color, shape, and can compare and contrast items. Enjoy this fascinating read and then just imagine...	2002-05-23
US	50452306	R1ZWOQ09GIKFSE	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	5	76	86	N	N	The locusts descend and devour what's left	The facts of the story only hint at the carnage. By the beginning of 1945 the allied armies had halted after crossing the Rhine in western Germany. There they waited for a move from the Red Army in the east. It was not long in coming and was preceeded by a wave of millions of fleeing German civilians, who abandoning the occupied territories of Prussia and Silesia, had only one panicked and fearful expression on their lips: \\"Der Ivan Kommt!\\" Indeed the Russians were coming and in a massive way. They had assembled \\"the largest army the world had ever seen\\" comprising 2.5 million soldiers, over 40,000 artillery guns, 6,000 tanks and four air armies, all for the purpose of a rapid attack and capture of the capital of the Third Reich. Berlin in contrast was defended by 45,000 Wehrmacht troops and about 40,000 militia. The militia comprised the young (mostly 14 year old Hitler Youth), the old (Volkssturm), and also foreign fascist volunteers (mostly French and Latvians) who still believed in the fight against Bolshevism. <br />This last point is well developed by Beevor. He mentions the Nazi and fascist antipathy towards the Russian peasant army and the Soviet form of totalitarianism. The Russians in turn hated all things German. This had been building since Stalingrad and Stalin himself had deliberately stoken the flames of revenge. When unleashed on Berlin this unquenchable fire took the form of drunken violence, looting, and gang-raping of German women by vast numbers of Red Army soldiers. Here is where Beevor's book differs from the many previous descriptions of this battle. THE FALL OF BERLIN 1945 is much too dull a title for the gruesome, disturbing, and emotionally wrenching descriptions of the inhumanity of both the Wehrmacht and the Red Army. Beevor says that besides revenge, what drove the Red Army was Stalin's desire to acquire German A-bomb secrets and Soviet commanders concern that the Allies might take Berlin. This could not be allowed to happen, as \\"Berlinbelonged to the Soviet Union by right of suffering as well as by right of conquest.\\" <br />The Soviets were in such a hurry to seize the city that many Red Army units entering Berlin were shelled by their own artillery. Add to the confusion the fact that Hitler refused to evacuate civilians and you can see that the convergence of drunken indiscipline and revenge on the part of the invaders, and hatred, fear, and a \\"strange mixture of supressed hysteria and fatalism\\" on the part of Berliners, could only lead to what Beevor calls \\"the apocalypse of totalitarian corruption.\\" Berlin was already a ruin from allied bombers but as April arrived and the Soviets entered, any semblance of normality evaporated and \\"a sense of nightmare unreality pervaded the city as it awaited its doom.\\" When women were not suffering gang-rapes  - \\"of approximately 100,000 women raped...10,000 died...mostly from suicide\\" - they were acting like automatons or zombies. Beevor tells of an incident where a Soviet artillery shell exploded on women waiting in a food line. The survivors merely shuffled to fill in the spaces created by the fallen. The Berlin Philharmonic gave its last performance on April 12 and guests helped themselves to cyanide pills as they departed. Beevor desribes the unreal scene outside Hitler's Bunker where as he and Eva Braun burned, an SS guard ran downstairs and said 'the chief's on fire, do you want to come and look?'. There were no takers as people were otherwise occupied as Beevor says \\"an erotic fever\\" seemed to have gripped everyone. <br />Beevor does not ignore the strategic big picture of this chaotic battle that consumed some 350,000 lives and left more than a quarter million Russians wounded. But it is at the level of the individual soldier and the women city dwellers that Beevor's story is at its most compelling. Here the descriptions of the irrationality, inhumanity, and insanity that was Berlin in 1945 provide the only means of getting a grip on the totality ofthe carnage. This is an unremittingly grim account of humanity at war but it's a useful reminder of what WWII was fought for and it's well worth reading.	2002-05-22
US	50452306	R2L0IJ7VJMPF9B	0609601431	601909093	I Have Landed: The End of a Beginning in Natural History	Books	4	52	56	N	N	The passing of an era	That's how one review in the media described this - the tenth and final collection of Gould's essays written for Natural History. Another commented on the fact that Gould knew when to move on - to give up writing scientific essays, even though he is widely recognized as being the first to \\"popularize\\" science using this format. Most scientists avoid writing essays, largely they argue, because it's inappropriate for science. You wouldn't be too far off however if you thought that perhaps it's also because Gould had already mastered the genre, and absolutely no scientist wishes to come second to Gould. If you know only one thing about the \\"science wars\\" it's a good bet it's you know that mentioning the name Stephen Jay Gould to many scientists is akin to waving a red flag at a bull. <br />Much of science reading will be that much duller now. Gould's death from cancer earlier this week makes this last group of 30 essays truly his final collection. It's thus likely to be much more popular that many previous ones. All the more so when you start reading and see here that Gould is much more personal, ranges further and deeper with his philosophical thinking, and refreshingly is less polemical in his views. Although on this last point in an essay on the Human Genome Project and its revelation that our genome contains only about a third of the number of genes predicted, Gould takes his mandatory swipe at the \\"Dawkinsian\\" scientists and says that the HGP shows \\"the failure of reductionism\\".<br />Another essay I enjoyed is Gould's discussion of recent feathered dinosaur finds and their significance to understanding the origins of flight. Also interesting is his thinking on the supposed incompatibilty of the humanities and science (he sees a commonality of motive, if not methodology) These are just two of the more contentious topics in their respective areas of science and so it's natural that Gould would tackle them with gusto. His usual self-confident, opinionated, the-world-according-to-Gould, style of writing remains on display and still has the capacity to annoy. This time though it's definitely tempered by Gould's openess and willingness to share more of himself.<br />Gould begins and ends talking about family and connectedness through time and the similarity of the tree of life with that of a family tree. Gould speaks of his continuation of the dreams that his beloved grandfather arrived on these shores with on September 11, 1901. Stephen writes poignantly of the aborted celebration of the centenary of his grandfather's arrival at Ellis Island; his flight to New York on September 11, 2001 was diverted for obvious reasons. Read the following tribute to his grandfather and then allow yourself to see a different Gould than the abrasive and boastful one we thought he was. \\"Dear Papa Joe, I have been faithful to your dream of persistence and attentive to a hope that the increments of each worthy generation may buttress the continuity of evolution...I have finally won the right to restate your noble words and to tell you that their inspiration still lights my journey: I HAVE LANDED. But I also can't help wondering what comes next!\\" <br />Goodbye Stephen Jay Gould. Both you and your books will be greatly missed	2002-05-21
US	50452306	R1UW3VK8K19O7S	0813531225	211220838	Man, Beast, and Zombie: What Science Can and Cannot Tell Us about Human Nature	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The dehumanizing power of the scientific world-view	Is there such a thing? And if so how has this contributed to our confusion in defining ourselves? Pick one: man, beast or Zombie. Notice that I said pick one while Malik's title MAN, BEAST, AND ZOMBIE implies that the choices are not mutually exclusive; choosing all three is a valid selection. I'll defer to Malik and simply say that he's convincing with his arguments in this well written and thoughtful book. <br />Malik's main purpose with this book is to show that much of our current thinking about human nature is incorrect. The focus is on evolutionary theory, sociobiology, evolutionary psychology, and cognitive science. Malik highlights the areas within each field that are seemingly in agreement on what makes us human, but the real value of this book, and what Malik does exceptionally well, is show how the abiding contradictions are largely steeped in politics and that by understanding this we can emerge with a clear idea of human nature. Far from arguing that science has contributed to a dehumanizing vision of ourselves and that genetic determinism and Darwinism is off, Malik says it's &quot;mostly right&quot; but that &quot;when it comes to the science of Man&quot; things are different. Malik shows how one can support Darwinism but still  have a humanistic view of our nature. He's certainly not saying that science is a social construction, but he also does not agree with Daniel Dennett who explains all mental and social aspects of humanity in mechanistic terms as adaptations of evolution. In Malik's capable hands the divide between evolutionary psychology and sociobiology is illuminated and is seen in terms of a philosophical and political argument, but one that is still about the same underlying evolutionary truth. The same can be said for the seeming uncrossable chasm between evolutionary psychology and cognitive ethology. Malik himself takes a position. He sides with Dennett and says that animal behavior tells us nothing about human nature and that studyingmodern hunter-gatherers can't tell us much about stone-age man. He spends a bit of time refuting Jared Diamond's arguments and pretty much ignores cognitive ethologists. Malik believes that the idea of &quot;self&quot; or consciousness is created by language and thus defines what makes humans unique. Malik's view however is no more than just another position, as is any other, on the same philosophical/political spectrum.  <br />This book is a very useful contribution to the ongoing debate about human nature. It is eloquent in arguing against a deterministic, materialistic, and mechanistic view of humanity. Equally cogently argued is Malik's belief that we should steer clear of an overly humanistic view that borders on mysticism. I'm not disappointed that Malik doesn't (or can't) define an ideal resting point, as it simply proves that reality remains a mix of both the physical and that which is in the consciousness. And where we place reality is still a function of where each of us sits on that all important philosophical/political spectrum.	2002-05-18
US	50452306	RTD606YTOSU66	067400051X	681966779	The Alex Studies: Cognitive and Communicative Abilities of Grey Parrots	Books	4	57	59	N	N	No parrot jokes please	I can almost hear Irene Pepperberg saying that to us as she describes the significance of THE ALEX STUDIES. She herself offers a few humorous anecdotes about Alex, but for the most part there is definitely nothing funny about this book. It's written in a deliberately prosaic style for the following reasons. The very tendency for the media and general public to treat Alex as simply the &quot;talking parrot&quot;, when in reality his vocalizations represent something much more important in terms of animal cognition and communication. Also stemming from the fact that her findings about bird cognition are so significant, Pepperberg in making her case to scientific colleagues, writes with them in mind. She is incredibly detailed in describing her experiments and the controls used. This is in order to avoid the possibility of cueing and thus comparisons to &quot;clever Hans&quot;; she wants to remove the possibility of persons saying the evidence is that most dreaded scientific epithet - merely &quot;anecdotal&quot;. The book is replete with references and Pepperberg places them in the body of her text instead of as footnotes. The book is not a smooth read and only a scientist could describe it as &quot;a delightful and easy read&quot; as ethologist Marc Bekoff says on the cover. This is not a popular science book. But equally it takes an evoltionary biologist and ornithologist to see the &quot;groundbreaking&quot; significance of the book as Bernd Heinrich does. <br />Where does that leave us, the general reading public? If you take it in small pecks (couldn't resist one bird metaphor) you will be rewarded by some incredible insights into the cognitive powers of animals. We learn of abilities that scientists said perhaps (and that's a capital &quot;P&quot;) resided only in Great Apes. Never was it imagined that birds possesed them. Pepperberg spends chapters discussing different capabilities such as numeric cognition, categorization, and word comprehension. Alex responded to Pepperberg's questions about &quot;what color?&quot; &quot;what shape?&quot; and &quot;how many?&quot; with appropriate answers. By far the most interesting responses were Alex's answers to conceptual problems. When asked &quot;what's different&quot; Alex showed he understood the concept of relativity by answering &quot;larger&quot;. <br />The traditional view was that we know that animals are not sentient. Pepperberg's experiments show that what we &quot;know&quot; about animal cognition is not that much at all. How else can it be. Science has a history of a few hundred years and it was not that very long ago that we &quot;knew&quot; that the earth was flat or that it was at the center of the universe. Cognitive Ethology (the study of animal intelligence) is less than a generation old. Perhaps he's not the best source to quote since he's from a comedy, but that man in black, Tommie Lee Jones as &quot;K&quot; was absolutely right when he said &quot;just imagine what we'll know tomorrow.&quot;	2002-05-17
US	50452306	R6JCOG1M7B731	0465041752	189956826	The Ape And The Sushi Master Reflections Of A Primatologist	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The ape lit up his pipe, sat down, and said...	A joke that begins like this is typical of crude and simplistic  anthropomorphism and is illustrative of why scientists are so scared of being called anthropomorphic. The consequence of such a label is usually a joke at the their expense: \\"Have you heard the one about the scientist who walks into a store with a parrot on his shoulder?\\" Franz De Waal is neither a subscriber to \\"joke-a-day\\" nor to such base forms of anthropomorphism. He starts out by mentioning that for most scientists, interest in their field began with a love for nature. Such a closeness to animals \\"creates the desire to understand them, and not just a little piece of them, but the whole animal.\\" In such a venture good scientists employ all available tools and consequently \\"anthropomorphism is not only inevitable, it is a powerful tool.\\"<br />De Waal is convincing, but on this point he need not be overwhelmingly so since most scientists have no problem distinguishing between childish and humorous anthropomorphism, and that which is useful in providing anecdotal observations on animal behavior. De Waal states that in the earliest days of ethology (the naturalistic study of animal behavior) and long before sociobiology argued the point, the very idea of any \\"continuity between human and animal behavior\\" was anathema to all. Things have changed and the dividing line between nature/nurture is no longer under attack, (to remain a target something must at least exist and that line is now so blurred as to be unidentifiable). De Waal has his sights set elsewhere and rips \\"a maximum number of holes in the nature/culture divide.\\" He convincingly shows that not only do animals have a culture, but that it is robust, diversified, and learned through a process of imitation. De Waal shows that in Eastern cultures there is little resistance to the idea of animal culture. He spends some time looking at the work of Japanese primatologist Kinji Imanishi. The Japanese approach is another method of primatology and it gave De Waal the idea for his book's title. The APE AND THE SUSHI MASTER speaks to the similar teaching techniques used by mother apes and Sushi chefs. Apprentice cooks and young apes both learn through years of observation and imitation. <br />Reading this book will give you insights into not only how we view animals and what the nature of culture is, but it also has something to say about how we view ourselves. The book is very well written and is aimed at a general reading audience. De Waal is thoughtful and offers his opinions in a non forceful manner. For a book that deals with such contentious subjects, it's refreshing that there is very little invective. Blind support for \\"selfish genes\\" is however justifiably criticized and De Waal shows that altruism and cooperation are equally as likely outcomes of natural selection. It's now time for us to emerge from \\"anthropodenial\\" about animal culture and \\"of being tied to how we are unlike any animal\\". Instead we are urged to adopt a more humanistic view - and concomitantly, a more humane view of animals - both grounded in science. We may then believe that \\"human identity [is] built around how we are animals that have taken certain capacities a significant step farther.\\"	2002-05-12
US	50452306	R2ZFQHVVMTZ29C	0674582209	786228356	Monad to Man: The Concept of Progress in Evolutionary Biology	Books	4	26	26	N	N	His pet peeve	This massive bit of research into the history of evolutionary thought represents Michael Ruse's attempt to convince fellow scientists to show interest in what he sees as two fundamental issues in evolutionism. The first is the dissonance between it and other scientific enquiries. More specifically Ruse is concerned about the indifference physicists, chemists, and other scientists engaged in the &quot;practical&quot; sciences show towards evolution. They hardly care about evolution's focus on origins and are instead interested in their own experiments. The second issue is Ruse's pet peeve. It is the tendency, which he says he can trace back 250 years, for evolutionism to be influenced by cultural values. More specifically, Ruse says that the idea of social progress has always had a close relationship with evolution. This is the subject which he explores for the vast majority of the book.<br />The best encapsulation of this idea of Progress (which Ruse describes with a capital &quot;P&quot; to emphasize its significance)is its movement from the simplest biological form to the most complex. Thus we have from MONAD TO MAN. Ruse says that the idea &quot;that there will be an ongoing improvement of human society through human effort was the parent idea of evolution, which was taken to have at its heart the idea of biological progress.&quot; He shows that it was in fact the norm in Darwin's time. But is it still so today, and of critical importance to readers of this book, does Ruse make a convincing argument that it is so? More importantly still, does he make a case to convince his fellow scientists to care? I say yes to the first part (and at over 600 pages his book had better be convincing!) He points out that from about the 1950's there was a shift and evolutionary science became more objective. Ruse is very convincing in showing that this was not as a result of scientists giving up belief in social or biological Progress, but merely the suppressing of these ideas at the behest of professionalizers. <br />I doubt that he's convinced too many of his colleagues though. It seems instead that he's annoyed them. One scientist commenting on the book in the &quot;National Review&quot; said Ruse's belief that progress was a cultural value was a &quot;stretch&quot; and that &quot;to suggest as he does that such a belief actually affects the content of contemporary evolutionary biology is simply unjustified.&quot; I'd suggest you read and decide for yourself. It's worth it considereing some of the present day scientists he interviewed and whose work he looks at - Stephen Jay Gould, Ernst Mayr, John Maynard Smith, and E.O. Wilson. The only caveat is the size of the book and that in making sure that he's not a &quot;popularizer&quot; himself, Ruse does not write with the general reader in mind.	2002-05-12
US	50452306	R2J1Q41Z60OV84	0674005430	59924244	Mystery of Mysteries: Is Evolution a Social Construction?	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Can I prove it or is it simply something I believe?	I imagine most readers who are drawn to a book like this have asked themselves something similar while contending with issues that are important to them. Enter Michael Ruse who argues in this thought provoking book that such questions, although critically important, are ultimately futile; there's always going to be a dichotomy. The ongoing debate between the scientific worldview of objective reality on one hand, and the humanistic vision of subjective cultural values on the other hand, still remains unresolved. Ruse as both a philosopher and biologist has as good a chance as any of shedding some light on this MYSTERY OF MYSTERIES. Is there indeed something \\"real\\" underlying science or as the book's subtitle suggests \\"Is Evolution a Social Construction?\\" <br />Although evolution is the specific subject looked at, the book is excellent in putting all of science and it's practitioners into a useful historical and cultural setting. Ruse normally has a very low opinion of \\"popular science\\" but in recognition of the importance of the topic of \\"science vs culture\\", he has offered a book that will appeal to a general audience. It's well written with ideas carefully explained and he's humorous in parts. Ruse provides a good glossary to help with the evolotuionary biology and philosophy terminology. Let's start where he does by looking at one of those terms. Science is founded on \\"epistemic values\\" which Ruse defines as \\"those norms or rules that supposedly lead to objective knowledge\\". Ruse contrasts the \\"objectivist\\" view of science - illustrated by the work of Karl Popper - with the \\"subjectivist\\" approach of Thomas S Kuhn who saw science in terms of \\"cultural values\\". The whole notion of social constructions owes its existence to Kuhn's shifting paradigms. Ruse's first chapter is a short and brilliant explanation on the difference between Popper's and Kuhn's views.<br />Most of the following chapters are mini biographies of some of the better known evolutionary scientists, and case studies of their work to see where it stacks up along the Popper/Kuhn scale.  Ruse says \\"I wanted to present a portrait of individual scientists and ultimately ask the question: Is science what scientists think, something about the real world? Or is it, as cultural studies thinks, a cultural constraint, a reflection of society?\\" He argues that if the subjectivist view is correct, social constructionism and all its attendant moral, religious, and political content, should be fairly constant features of science throughout history. The first individual he studies is Erasmus Darwin, and sure enough, his science was steeped in the culture of the day. Ruse believes that \\"science is special\\" so he expects that as science matured, a more objective nature would emerge - built on predictive capabilities, consistency, and explanative powers. In contrast to his grandfather Erasmus, Charles Darwin's thinking represented a major step forward in terms of epistemic values. Ruse still finds other influences at work, most noticeably religious values. Darwin was never an atheist and only became an agnostic late in life. <br />The other scientists looked at in order are: Julian Huxley, Theodosius Dobzhansky, Richard Dawkins, Stephen Jay Gould, Richard Lewontin, Edward O Wilson, Geoffrey Parker, and Jack Sepkowski. The last two individuals are practitioners of \\"science of the first order\\" and Ruse is hard-pressed to find cultural values impinging as it did with the quasi-science of Erasmus Darwin. With regard to the \\"big names\\", Ruse explores what influences them. \\"I'm interested\\" he says \\"in Dawkins' violent atheism, Gould's New York Jewish background and connection to Marxism, and Wilson's Southern Baptist background and fascination with the military\\". Where Wilson is shown to make broad metaphysical statements, Lewontin is parsimonious with praise   for the power of genes. Ruse saves some stick for one of his pet peeves - those \\"poularizers\\" of science. He does make a distinction between the books that Dawkins, Gould, and Wilson offer us and the work that is shared with professionals. However in Gould's case he's unimpressed either way. \\"The average working evolutionist is no better off with Gould than without him\\".<br />The criticisms of pet theories and ideas are all laid out here, and for those who have read widely about the \\"science wars\\", the  level of vituperation and personal commentary will come as no surprise. That aside this is a brilliant exposition on the evolution of evolutionary thought and a good analysis of the nature of science. Ruse believes that \\"both Popper and Kuhn were right\\". His book offers a strong argument for scientists to acknowledge this and to recognize how this influences their work.	2002-05-11
US	50452306	R39RANCSOZE2I9	0813530369	134257196	The Evolution Wars: A Guide to the Debates	Books	3	62	70	N	N	There are other, better, books on the subject	With due recognition of the importance of a son's opinion, Michael Ruse's book is simply good, not the best. I'd recommend two others for different reasons. DAWKINS VS GOULD by Kim Sterelny because it's much more succinct without losing the substance of the debate; also THE DARWIN WARS since it's written by a journalist for a general audience, and it doesn't assume readers have a biology background.<br />This last point is the main criticism I have with THE EVOLUTION WARS especially since the book bills itself as &quot;A guide to the Debates&quot;. Ruse writes in a style that is not easily accessible by non scientists. In fact he is on record as saying that the &quot;popularizers&quot; of science do their field of study a disservice. If that's the authors view he should not be surprised if the vast number of popular science readers do this book a disservice by ignoring it. <br />It's the authors fault, and it's also a pity because Ruse is by far the most knowledgeable of the three. What he does better than the others is put the debate into it's historical setting, tracing the origins right back to Erasmus Darwin (Charles' grandfather). As a philosopher, Ruse is also the best equipped to deal with the nexus of religion and science. The book is ultimately rewarding but it's a bit of a slog. I got annoyed in parts where the opportunity for &quot;simplification&quot; and clarity for a general reader presented itself, but Ruse instead chose to express his scientific prowess.	2002-05-10
US	50452306	R2TEHKN2Q1ICE4	1552094537	894797025	Orangutans: Wizards of the Rain Forest	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Good science writing on Orangutans	Not taking anything away from Birute Galdikas who has been studying Orangutans longer than Anne Russon, but this book is different than Galdikas' two books, and as a scientific overview of these great apes it is hard to beat. Galdikas' REFLECTIONS OF EDEN mixed natural history with memoir, and ORANGUTAN ODYSSEY is slim - less text and more photographs - and serves as a good coffee-table book. <br />Russon worked with ex-captive and former pet Orangs who were stationed at a rehabilitation center learning how to be &quot;wild&quot;. Her descriptions of their behavior is fascinating. They have extended childhoods, and in the wild they would spend this time with their mothers learning by imitation. In captivity their learning ability has been transfered into a fondness for using human tools. The incredible imitative skills of Orangs was a revelation for Russon. This is something that primatologists have stressed as significant about all the great apes. Galdikas recognizes this as a challenge in reintroducing apes to the wild. Frans de Waal goes further and has done studies on how such &quot;human imprinting&quot; has impinged on the animal's &quot;culture&quot;. <br />Russon only provides an introduction to such topics as animal intelligence and whether or not they have a culture. Her examples of Orang learning and imitative behavior make for a thoroughly interesting read and may encourage readers to further explore the subject. I therefore highly recommend this well written book.	2002-05-09
US	50452306	R2YG7ZVU6B2RLK	0743203437	967853839	The Darwin Wars: The Scientific Battle for the Soul of Man	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Next time Brown should test the water before diving in	Evolutionary psychology, sociobiology, and evolutionary biology in general are subjects whose temperatures are way above comfortably warm. You can get scorched by plunging in unprepared. You guarantee this if you decide to move beyond \\"nature vs nurture\\" and extend the debate to the moral, ethical, and (scalding now) - the religious implications of science. <br />Brown's opening chapter hints at where he intends to go with the argument. He discusses the sad ending of George Price's life. Price was a brilliant biologist, who through work on the evolution of altruism, developed a mathematical formula that proved that human nature was grounded in selfishness. Brown says that \\"through algebra, George Price had found proof or original sin.\\" Price's story illustrates the changed nature of THE DARWIN WARS as it is now less about scientific differences but more about philosophical issues. Brown argues that there has been a shift in interest in what is now considered important. Thus his subtitle that this is \\"The Scientific Battle for the Soul of Man\\". This is the framework into which he places the competing scientists. Brown creates two camps - the \\"Dawkinsians\\" and the \\"Gouldians\\", named after of course Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould. Brown does a reasonable enough job of explaining the differences between the two groups. He then spends a chapter discussing the adaptive benefits of religious belief and whether or not they are \\"viruses of the mind\\" He says they're not. <br />I give Brown credit for being balanced in his analysis and incredibly open to contending views. I think his book is unique in this respect. His divergent philosophical positions with well known thinkers on this subject have led to strong words. Give Brown full marks for publishing Daniel C Dennett's comment about Brown's work - \\"what a sleazy bit of trash journalism\\" - right there on the book's cover jacket. That's way too strong a remark, but overall the book does fall down a bit in making it'scase for a philosophical interpretation of the \\"wars\\". Also when discussing religion, Brown makes a hash of the distinction between popular beliefs and theology.	2002-05-07
US	50452306	R3H0YA135M1JJC	0316301868	980345356	Reflections of Eden: My Years with the Orangutans of Borneo	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Leakey's third "angel"	The other two \\"angels\\" on their mission of Great Ape rescue were of course Jane Goodall and Dian Fossey who studied respectively Chimpanzee's and Mountain Gorillas.(Fossey we know died for her cause). Birute Galdikas started later than the others (1971) and her Great Ape - Orangutans - were also less known and in some respects, less regarded than the others. <br />Does Galdikas' work in Borneo and her story in REFLECTIONS OF EDEN remedy this oversight? Only somewhat as this book is as much an autobiography as it is a natural history of the \\"men of the forest\\". Galdikas' affection for her mentor Louis Leakey is obvious as is her fondness for her fellow primatologists. \\"Dian, Jane Goodall, and I were family. Louis Leakey had recognized us as kindred souls and become our spiritual father.\\" This connectedness she felt extended to the mystical. When Fossey was murdered in Rwanda in 1985 Galdikas tells us \\"even before I learned of her death, I knew Dian would be killed, I knew this was her destiny.\\"<br />It should not be a surprise to read here that a scientist that feels this way will express a high degree of passion about her subjects. All three of these primatologists at different times have talked about \\"my apes\\" and this attachment is certainly reciprocated by the Orangutans. Galdikas tells about Sugito an orphaned young male \\"who selected me as his one and only, his mother\\". Orangs are the most arboreal and reclusive of the Great Apes and this naturally provides a challenge to studying them. Galdikas has nevertheless learned more about their social behavior than any other researcher. She mixes these insights in with her own life in the jungle at \\"Camp Leakey\\" and with life in Indonesia as a whole. In this context Galdikas even recognizes that for a Third World country like Indonesia, conserving and rehabilitating the Orangutans is yet just another priority that they must effectively juggle with. With this book she continues to encourage both them and us to care.	2002-05-06
US	50452306	R1299AGZFVPK15	0520226151	489179746	What it Means to be 98% Chimpanzee: Apes, People, and their Genes	Books	5	25	37	N	N	He's yet to meet Ishmael	A catchy and provocative title is now de-rigueur for popular science books on the subject of genetics. It's somewhat surprising then that the message of WHAT IT MEANS TO BE 98% CHIMPANZEE is that it doesn't really mean that much at all. Marks takes a distinctly middle-of-the-road position on most of the scientific debate that has spun off from the human versus ape discussion. Marks says that \\"the extent to which our DNA resembles an ape's predicts nothing about our genetic similarity to apes, much less about any moral or political consequences arising from it.\\"<br />In chapters such as \\"The Ape in You\\", \\"How People Differ from One Another\\" \\"The Meaning of Human Variation\\" and \\"Human Nature\\" the author lays out his views on hot-button topics such as the biological reality of \\"races\\" and \\"nature vs nurture\\". Marks is not a believer in strict genetic determinism and therefore does not take a reductionist view of human nature - i.e genetics as a causal factor for everything. He's somewhat more of a humanist but this nod to a more environmentally deterministic view does not extend to an all embracing view of our fellow primates. The non-human primates - Chimpanzees, Bonobos, Gorillas, and Oranutans have an increasing number of human advocates who say that there are moral and ethical consequences that stem from the genetic similarity between apes and humans. Primatologists such as Jane Goodall argue that the higher intelligence and emotional awareness of apes demands a distinction in how we view them, and more importantly, how we treat them. In the chapter \\"Human Rights for Apes?\\" Marks discusses the Great Ape Project and the long term objective of getting an U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Apes. Marks will have none of this and sees such positions as pretentiousness on the part of scientists. <br />The science on animal consciousness is still inconclusive especially as it relates to the Great Apes. It's in the area of self-awareness and higher order thinking (\\"thinkingabout thoughts\\") where much of the debate takes place but this is not Marks' primary interest. Marks' main point is that there is a better approach to understanding these issues, one that is holistic rather than a binary \\"either/or\\" argument. Marks introduces us to his speciality in chapter one - \\"Molecular Anthropology\\" - and tells us that it combines the reductive power of genetics with the humanistic vision of anthropology. It thus allows practitioners to steer clear of ideologically influenced science. <br />It's ironic because in arguing about the merits of his field of study, Marks himself comes across as tunnel-visioned and obviously enamored with his own view of things. This is the only problem with this otherwise well written and wide-ranging discussion on some of the current debates in science. Although Marks wouldn't support it because it talks about a sentient Gorilla, for me, Daniel Quinn's book ISHMAEL provides the best overview on this whole debate. Our scientific beliefs give us a view of the world. Ishmael says it's going to be hard for us to give it up because what we're doing is \\"right\\" and \\"giving up would mean that all along [we've] been wrong. It would mean [we've] never known how to rule the world. It would mean relinquishing [our] pretensions to godhood.\\" As if to prove the point, this book can't end without trying to tackle the \\"big\\" questions. Marks concludes with a chapter on \\"Science, Religion, and Worldview\\". <br />Enjoy the book for what it is: a good general introduction to genetics, with particular reference to apes and ourselves. Just remember that scientists - even iconoclasts such as Marks who does a great job of cutting through the debate - still are subject to their own biases and particular worldviews. Science itself is still undecided on much of what you read about here.	2002-05-05
US	50452306	RXERBUO2QUAZQ	0802713750	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	5	47	52	N	N	"No merchantman shall be sunk without warning"	This was the time honored tradition that governed war at sea. Britain and Germany were at war since August 4, 1914, when WWI commenced. Nevertheless warship captains were in the habit of signalling or firing warning shots, allowing crew and passengers of merchantmen to disembark before consigning ship and cargo to the watery depths. Rewards were for tonnage sunk not the numbers of persons sent to \\"Davey Jones' Locker\\". This wouldn't apply to the RMS Lusitania anyway. At 785 feet and displacing nearly 40,000 tons with a capacity of carrying 2,000 passengers and 850 crew, she was no mere merchantman but a luxury passenger liner advertised as the \\"Queen of the Seas\\". She sailed with impunity, without escort, and according to a well publicized and regular schedule. This was no doubt the mindset of Captain William Turner as he got the Lusitania underway on the morning of May 1, 1915 for the return voyage from New York to Liverpool; the ship's 202nd Atlantic crossing. Turner would also be comforted in knowing that the ship had thirty-four electrically controlled watertight doors which made her \\"virtually unsinkable\\" (the same words used to describe a certain ship involved in an earlier titanic catastrophe at sea). Lusitania was popularly known as the \\"Greyhound of the Sea\\" due to a top speed in excess of 25 knots and this seemed to have given Turner great confidence as he declared \\"a torpedo can't get the Lusitania - she runs too fast.\\" <br />This gripping account by Diana Preston shows the false bravado of that statement and the truth of LUSITANIA being instead known as \\"An Epic Tragedy\\". On May 7 in broad daylight the ship was torpedoed and sunk by German submarine U-20 within sight of the coast of Ireland. The ship went down in under twenty minutes with the loss of 1,201 lives including 291 women and 94 children. There was utter shock and disbelief and the repercussions were immediate with worldwide condemnation of the sinking. There were 128 Americans among those lostincluding Alfred Vanderbilt. In the US, official complacency and public isolationist sentiments totally evaporated. What made it worse was that there had been no warning whatsoever. Only a trail of bubbles indicated an incoming torpedo. <br />This book is Preston's attempt to sort out why the usual rules of war were disregarded with the Lusitania \\"carrying civilian men, women and children\\". As is true of most tragedies at sea, the sinking of the ship is usually only the highwater mark, there is invariably confusion, controversy, and if it's a big enough event, there's sure to be conspiracy theories about. So it is with the Lusitania. One of the issues Preston looks at is: Did 32 year old Kapitan Leutnant Walther Schweiger - the commander of  U-20 - know what he was firing at?, and did he act on his own initiative or under specific orders? This ties in with the larger theme of whether the Lusitania was a legitimate target as the Germans claimed. There are at least three versions offered as rationale (1) The Lusitania was an armed merchant cruiser (2) She was ferrying Canadian troops, and (3) She was loaded with guns and munitions. A conspiracy theory surrounds Britain supposedly setting these events in motion so as to draw us into the war. Preston doesn't find any evidence supporting this idea and it's apparent that conspiracists are imagining machinations by Britain's First Lord of the Admiralty. The events of history that Winston Churchill supposedly single-handedly orchestrated is quite phenomenal!<br />While Churchill, Woodrow Wilson, and Kaiser Wilhelm II all get due attention, this is as much about the passengers and their survival at sea, and in places it is a richly uplifting story of human courage and dignity. A female passenger Madame de Page assisted children into the lifeboats and was directly responsible for saving thirty-five young lives. Captain Turner stayed at his post and tried to steam on in order to beach the Lusitania. This failed and as the ship foundered he tried to maintain calm and only left when he believed he was the last man aboard. At this point nobody knew that so many were trapped below decks.<br />Preston offers us a riveting historical account that reads like a nautical yarn. The facts are grim and the loss of life was horrendous but Preston's writing skill allows her to bring the people and events alive. The historical detail remains as an unobtrusive backdrop and the richer and more colorful human interest stories shine through.	2002-05-03
US	50452306	R2E5PCRL1CV68C	0865475873	28074004	Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things	Books	5	105	115	N	N	The proof is in your hands	Proof that our technologically advanced, high-consumption industrial system can make environmentally sound and sustainable products. We can manufacture a whole range of goods that are ecologically efficient in that they reduce waste and yet are less expensive to make than traditionally manufactured items. Pick up CRADLE TO CRADLE and the proof is right there in your hands. \\"This book is not a tree\\" the authors tell us. Its slightly heavier than your average paperback, the pages are whiter and they're also waterproof (I took the authors word on that one and am happy to say I was able to read on). The pages are made from plastic resins and fillers and in keeping with the message of \\"eliminating waste\\", the book is 100% recyclable.<br />McDonough and Braungart's vision of \\"Remaking the Way We Make Things\\" goes way beyond books. Why not buildings that produce more energy than they consume? Or \\"green\\" roofs that give off oxygen while cooling the occupants? How about factories that produce drinkable effluent? or products that when their useful life is over can be used as nutrients for soil? What sounds like science fiction is convincingly shown to be quite feasible by the authors. They offer numerous examples to prove it.<br />\\"We see a world of abundance, not limits\\" they say. As an architect (McDonough) and chemist (Braungart) they don't have any special qualifications for this re-thinking and re-doing. What they simply have done is re-imagine the whole manufacturing process beginning with the design elements. Sometimes it's simply a matter of asking the right questions and looking at things differently. They are not talking about smaller-scale industry or limiting themselves to the \\"four R's\\" of traditional environmentalism - reuse, recycle, reduce, and regulate. With their intelligent designs, \\"bigger and better\\" is possible \\"in a way that replenishes, restores, and nourishes the rest of the world.\\" <br />McDonough and Braungart cover topics such as the history of theindustrial revolution, new business strategies that emphasize eco-efficiency, the relationship between man, nature, and science, and the importance of design and planning. Hopeful, well written, thoroughly researched, and packed with practical examples, this refreshing book offers an alternative to our current industrial system that \\"takes, makes and wastes\\". We have the talent, technology, and with the enthusiasm of these authors, we have the capability to achieve economic and ecological sustainability.	2002-04-30
US	50452306	R3CKN0TIUS4TA	0679732365	742065760	Ravens in Winter	Books	5	23	24	N	N	&quot;And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting...&quot;	Edgar Allan Poe was a fan of Corvus corax and most definitely so is Bernd Heinrich, although as a good scientist, he doesn't romanticize and anthropomorphize the bird as Poe does. RAVENS IN WINTER is a scientific study of the behavior of Ravens in western Maine that took place over the course of a few winters in the mid 1980's. It is more than that; it's about &quot;solving a riddle&quot;. Do Ravens &quot;actively disclose to strangers of their species the valuable and rare food bonanzas that one of them is lucky enough to find? If so, how do they do it, and why?&quot;<br />I don't know of any other such detailed studies on Ravens, except for other work that Heinrich himself has done. The author takes us through discussions on members of Corvidae (the crow family), Ravens in mythology, their intelligence, courting and display, nesting, calls, and all other matters dealing with the birds behavior. Heinrichs' illustrations of &quot;eared&quot;, &quot;fuzzy-headed&quot;, and &quot;strutting&quot; displays shows not only his artistic skills but that he is also very patient. The subtle details come only with spending a lot of time in quiet observation.  <br />Heinrich does solve his riddle and Ravens do indeed share their food, or in the language of the study &quot;they actively recruit&quot;. As to why, this involves the difference in behavior by juvenile birds as against adult pairs. It's juveniles that call others to the food and Heinrich offers his theory. &quot;They are gregarious, joining other juveniles to roost and feast with, and to find an attractive mate. An unmated Raven finding food invites eligible singles to join him (or her?) at the feast, thereby not only gaining or maintaining access to the food, but possibly also increasing its status and demonstrating fitness as a future provider...&quot; As Heinrich goes on to say it's a system clothed in &quot;intricate detail and subtlety&quot;. It's only appropriate then that those words are most fitting in describing the book itself.	2002-04-29
US	50452306	R35MSF1HMLGQYX	0226443396	997655698	The Unsteady March: The Rise and Decline of Racial Equality in America	Books	5	2	4	N	N	One step forward, two steps back	Civil Rights leaders supposedly described their achievements in these terms and thus give the authors the title for their book. Such footwork can only be described as THE UNSTEADY MARCH. Klinker and Smith highlight the periods of progress and retreat through a broad sweep of US history. Beginning with the era of slavery (1619-1860), chapter 1 titled \\"Bolted with the Lock of a Hundred Keys\\" obviously describes a period of zero progress. According to the authors there have only been three periods of progress and each can be identified by the presence of specific factors. The thrust of their argument throughout this book is that the special circumstances and the effort, energy, and enthusiasm associated with these factors has both a beneficial and deleterious impact on black progress. Beneficially these are not short-run periods of gain. Indeed the third era of progress beginning with WWII and covering the Cold War (inclusive of Vietnam) from 1941 to 1968 \\"framed an extraordinarily prolonged period\\" of gains.<br />It's not coincidental that this period included WWII, the Cold War, and Vietnam because progress has come only \\"in the wake of a large-scale war requiring extensive economic and military mobilization of African-Americans for success.\\" This statement by the authors made me think about the message of AMERICAN PATRIOTS: \\"The Story of Blacks in the Military from the Revolution to Desert Storm\\". If gains by blacks is conditional on wars the treatment of blacks in those wars is a high cost to pay for progress as Gail Lumet Buckley shows in her book. Gaining support for these wars usually means invoking our inclusiveness, egalitarianism, and democratic ideals; elements which the authors identify as another precondition for progress. The third critical factor is that a political protest movement must emerge and be \\"willing and able to bring pressure upon national leaders to live up to that justificatory rhetoric by instituting domestic reforms.\\" <br />Progress has been a continual dance of advances and retreats but in their penultimate chapter \\"Benign Neglect?\\" the authors express concern over the current climate of complacency. Rather than a threat from any direct action or program of retrenchment, acceptance of present trends is a far greater impediment to continued progress. Through a series of parallels with periods of increased segregation they make a compelling case for overturning the historical pattern and replacing it with a movement towards sustained economic justice and racial equality.	2002-04-29
US	50452306	R33LCVDDLU7KMQ	0192862154	296344810	Defenders of the Truth: The Sociobiology Debate	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A plain gray wrapper	On the surface there's nothing attractive about this book. A simple title with no great promise of scientific quests or eccentric personalities. No catchy popular science theme and no photographs or diagrams; just 400 plus pages of closely spaced text. But within these plain gray jacket covers you've got the most comprehensive, balanced, and exceedingly well researched book on the cultural, philosophical, and political debates that surrounds the subject of sociobiology. <br />The two obvious issues the book looks at are mentioned at the very outset. The Sociobiology Debate began when E.O Wilson applied some observations on animal behavior to the study of human society. This was largely confined to the final chapter in his book SOCIOBIOLOGY and this was decades ago; the book was published in 1975. From such innocuous beginnings we have an issue that has come forward through time, spread throughout most of the scientific community, and is recognized as the opening battle, and longest running dispute in the \\"Science Wars\\". This leads to the second issue that Segerstrale focuses on and the one which provides her with her title, and us as readers with some new and valuable insight into this debate. The scientists in question notably Richard Lewontin, Richard Dawkins, Stephen Jay Gould, John Maynard Smith, Steven Rose, Niles Eldredge, and of course Wilson himself, are all DEFENDERS OF THE TRUTH its just that they have \\"different conceptions of where the truth lies.\\" <br />Not only does this book give us details on the different methodologies of the scientists and what constitutes \\"good science\\", we also see some of the personalities involved. Political and moral ideologies emerge from the background and are shown to be strong influences. Straw men, red herrings, floating false balloons, threats of lawsuits, and a single jug of ice water, have all been used at one time or another to start or end debates. None of the principals emerges unscathed, although both Wilson and Dawkins come out with enhanced debating reputations. <br />By tackling the sociobiology debate the book must naturally deal with the contentious issues in science: altruism, adaptionism vs allometry, essentialism vs existentialism, measuring human intelligence, punctuated equilibria, Marxism, determinism, reductionism, and attempts for a synthesis or unity of scientific knowledge. Although these are the topics covered the book is not an attempt to engage in epistemology. Instead Segerstrale is quite sensible in focusing on the methodology and motivation of the scientists themselves, rather than explaining the meanings of the scientific theories. The book then is very approachable and would go a long way to providing the general reading public with  clarity on the \\"Science Wars\\". Many times in the past when reading books by the scientists mentioned here I've wanted some matrix that would allow me to peg them in terms of their political, moral, human, and philosophical world views. More than merely allowing us to do this Segerstrale rises above that. She highlights the subtle and shifting nature of scientific positions but is very clear in showing that for each scientist this is a case of defending the truth. <br />I purchased this book on the recommendation of one of the reviewers here (thanks Stephen) and consider it one of the most useful science books i've read. I can't recommend it any more than by trying to pass on the favor with my own review.<br />\\"In some respects the better a book is, the less it demands from the binding.\\" (Charles Lamb)	2002-04-29
US	50452306	R13ERHP6J2JWY	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	18	25	N	N	Fully assimilated	Although this book is a post-September-11 paen to patriotism and has something to say about Islam in that context, the emphasis and real value of the book is elsewhere. I found D'Souza's comments on immigration thoughtful, insightful, and the perfect counterblast to the negative xenophobia of some anti-immigrant writing; the most recent example being Buchanan's THE DEATH OF THE WEST. D'Souza has a much more positive outlook - and refreshingly for those of us who have read him before - here he's less polemical, more humorous, and also more personal.<br />It's easy for immigrants to tell you WHAT'S SO GREAT ABOUT AMERICA. It's the appeal of the \\"universal civilization\\", a term used by one of my favorite writers - V S Naipaul - who like D'Souza is an immigrant of Indian descent; Naipual however migrated from Trinidad to England. At the center of the civilization is the idea of the pursuit of happines; something that has universal attraction and which is still most closely associated with the U.S. Naipaul offers the best expression of what D'Souza writes about here when he says the \\"universal civilization\\" implies \\"a certain kind of awakened spirit\\". <br />D'Souza acknowledges this spirit throughout his book and describes it in less philosophical terms but pragmatically with some specific examples from his experience. There's nothing to criticize about his view of a US that through policies that recognize merit, and the support of native-born Americans, gives immigrants an opportunity to fully assimilate and go on to become productive and prosperous citizens. This D'Souza contrasts with the views of multiculturalists where individualistic \\"authenticity\\" and very subjective experiences of \\"victimization\\" contribute to contentious demands for recognizing ethnic pluralism. In D'Souza's view the heterogeneous nature of the country is not an issue as long as citizens see themselves as Americans and immigrants continue to see \\"American\\" as something to aspire to. <br />It's in the extension of this idea to race where, like in his previous books, D'Souza always falters. In his experience as an immigrant there's no racism, nor does he see much around him, and as such he is critical of those who continue to speak about its existence in the US. African-Americans are of course not immigrants. Native-born, their problem has nothing to do with assimilation but everthing to do with integration. By lumping all ethnic and minority group issues under the heading of multiculturalism D'Souza is blind to this very important distinction and therefore doesn't allow himself to see racism. This is the only problem I had with this otherwise timely reminder on the positives of our country.	2002-04-28
US	50452306	RQLTYW8UCD5UZ	1574883259	516443238	Pilot Error: The Anatomy of a Plane Crash	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Cape Cod is not the most dangerous place to fly into	But sometimes it seems that way and for New York lawyer Ron Sinzheimer, on October 9, 1998, it was beyond dangerous, it was deadly. There aren't any more General Aviation accidents here than other parts of the country and there's nothing particularly stunning about this one so there's little reason to remember it. A man and the family dog in a single engine Grumman Traveler flying into the Cape to link up with his wife and son at their vacation home. Because I remember this accident, live nearby in Brewster, and it speaks to something of keen interest to me, my perception of the book may be quite colored and thus this &quot;five-star&quot; review. Nevertheless Phaedra Hise has written a compelling story that will be of interest to a much broader audience than GA pilots and people who live on the Cape. <br />The challenges associated with flying to and from the Cape are all to do with weather, specifically fog and haze. That means &quot;instrument flight rules&quot; and talking about flying as different from &quot;visual flight rules&quot; as night is from day. Besides the personal tragedy to the Sinzheimer family, the thrust of Hise's book is that once a pilot has lost visual reference to the horizon things very quickly begin to unwind. It takes a sharp pilot to sort out the conflict between what his senses say - &quot;i'm turning&quot; - and what the instruments read - wings are level. PILOT  ERROR is too innocuous a description for the multitude of things (mostly bad) that are taking place in such situations. Sometimes the various instruments seem to be contradicting each other and you must fight the panic that comes when your mind screams that it needs a visual reference in order to understand.<br />Hise could have used a famous case that everyone would have remembered in order to get across her message that instrument flight rules are a critical skill for any GA pilot. The struggle with understanding what his instruments were telling him was the same for John FKennedy Jr when he was flying through haze on the way to Martha's Vineyard in 1999. Using his flight would have meant focusing on him rather than where the real story is - five small instrument dials, that GA pilots must be absolutely familiar with - lest we become an accident statistic or the subject of a powerfully descriptive and very well written book.	2002-04-28
US	50452306	RRQ27PYJCWSUJ	0393321177	294087031	Losing Nelson (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Heroes are not real people...	... and thinking of them as such is where the problem lies. For the central character in this novel - Charles Cleasby - his hero is Horatio Nelson. A man who is honored with plaques in many places around the world (London, Port Royal in Jamaica, and the Far East) that state:<br />&quot;In This Place Dwelt Horatio Nelson;<BR>You Who Tread In His Footsteps Remember His Glory&quot;<br />Think about our image of Horatio Nelson for a minute. For many of us he's definitely &quot;larger than life&quot; - Bronze or Marble statues that tower over us. He's a &quot;national treasure&quot; as prices for any personal artifact or painting of him will attest, and he's often used as an &quot;icon&quot; for courage or patriotism. This seems to confirm that heroes are indeed not real people. While we are able to easily sort through all this, Cleasby has a much harder time maintaining perspective. In Cleasby's world Nelson is no mere Admiral, he's Charles' lifes obsession. The problem for Charles is compounded because we see here that he's also reclusive, socially-inept, eccentric, and more than slightly disturbed. He can't get a proper perspective and more than simply LOSING NELSON, Charles' story is one of him slowly but surely losing his grip on reality.  <br />The themes of hero worship and obsession, and the counterbalancing need for objectivity and realism are ancient philosophical ideas. They've long been explored in literature dating back to the Greek Mythologies, and truth be told, there's better writing on it elsewhere. The strength of this novel is in character development. Charles - as disturbed as he is, and as horrific as the denouement is - nevertheless comes across as somebody we can sympathize with. He seems strangely familiar and it is this that makes his story so haunting and its telling such a compelling read. If you enjoy nautical or military themes Nelson's exploits and battles are interwoven throughout and provide the historical background.	2002-04-26
US	50452306	R3U5JBPZNJZXYU	158465094X	921763957	Mariners, Renegades and Castaways: The Story of Herman Melville and the World We Live In (Reencounters with Colonialism: New Perspectives on the Americas)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	poco Po-Co	This book is more than a little bit of early Postcolonial writing. The intoduction by Donald Pease is new, and the last chapter - an autobiographical sketch and personal appeal by James - was omitted from a previous edition. In terms of literary criticism, this is what Pease has to say about James and his writing: \\"He was one of the few critics who emerged from the Third World in the 1950's and traveled throughout Britain and the United States generating what are now called post-colonial readings.\\" The real value of this book however is in its brilliant reinterpretation of MOBY DICK.<br />Rather than see Ahab and Ishmael as representing respectively \\"totalitarian\\" and \\"American\\" cultural themes as critics in the 1950's saw it, James offers a vison focused on the Pequod and its crew. A view in which the MARINERS, RENEGADES & CASTAWAYS of the ship were at the mercy of their Captain. In James' interpretaion the Pequod is a factory ship and the crew are the workers. Ahab is no longer a mere sailor but is now illustrative of a \\"Captain of industry.\\" <br />I agree with the reviewer from New Haven regarding the peculiar situation James found himself in. The established interpretation of a Cold War allegory was in keeping with the times in the 1950's. If James or Melville himself were writing today, the interpretation on offer here - rather than something to be persecuted for - would be considered far more plausible than the narrow and blinkered view of the 1950's mainstream critics.	2002-04-25
US	50452306	R20IP4OS2TM5ZV	0374514658	745947429	The Crofter and the Laird	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Excellent early McPhee	The finely detailed observations and vivid turn-of-words which we have come to know so well from McPhee's books on North America and its geological history, is applied here with great skill in this look at the tiny Scottish island of Colonsay and its inhabitants. The small population of under 150 people can trace ancestry to two castes or clans. Most are crofters or farmers. Some are true islanders with family roots going back hundreds of years; others are &quot;incomers&quot;. It's not a derogatory term but simply another social distinction. Then there's THE CROFTER AND THE LAIRD. McPhee offers a distillation of this social concoction. &quot;The usual frictions, gossip, and intense social espionage that characterize life in a small town are so grandly magnified...everyone is many things to everyone else, and is encountered daily in a dozen guises. Enmeshed together, the people of the island become one another. Friend and enemy dwell in the same skin.&quot;<br />McPhee deals with his usual areas of interest such as the environmental past of the island, but its the people that fascinate him. Here it's also a little closer to home as Colonsay is the home of McPhee's ancestors. The book is as much a narrative of the strife torn history of clans as it is one Americans' exploration of the &quot;sentimental myth&quot; that he attaches to his Scottish surname. McPhee quickly sees that, rather than myth, the clan is as real to Scots as it ever was. This is only amplified in a feudal and cloistered social setting such as on Colonsay. <br />The McPhee's (or Macafee, MacPhee, Macheffie, or MacDuffie, as the various septs are known) are part of the ancient clan MacFie. They're Celtic, and the Gaelic origin of the name means &quot;son of the Dark Fairy or Elf&quot;. Such fairy-tale-like legends seem incongruous when set against the treacherous and bloody reality of clan history. The McPhee's are a &quot;broken clan&quot;, the last chieftan was murdered by the MacDonald's in the17th century. The MacDonald's however got their comeuppance in the way of the clans. A group of MacDonald's were butchered in their sleep by the Campbell's of Argyll in the Glencoe Massacre of 1692.<br />And just to show that clan history dies very hard, many Scots, even until today, when pressed just a little bit can usually find something uncharitable to say about my Campbell clan. Time and geographical distance may make the clans of only historical interest to McPhee, myself, and other North Americans with Scots ancestors. In Scotland it's a lot more real and present, and this wonderful book gives us a slice of that life.	2002-04-23
US	50452306	R20W0BTW2M002O	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Lyrical prose, literary name-dropping, and nautical cliches	The first of the three is fine, and in sticking with the style that he is most admired for, Perez-Reverte has crafted THE NAUTICAL CHART in lyrical and visually rich prose. No problem there but the allusion to Melville, Conrad, Homer, and just about every author who has written about the sea was far too obvious. It felt forced and came across as an attempt to conflate all nautical themes into this one novel. It starts immediately with the story opening with the line: &quot;We could call him Ishmael, but in truth his name is Coy.&quot; As I said, it's not subtle. And for a writer who has previously shown a masterful command of language, it's a little disappointing that he felt compelled to use so many nautical cliches. Coy, pondering the mysteries of a woman revealed to him through his romance with Tanger, wonders to himself whether he will &quot;ever be able to draw the nautical chart that would allow a man to navigate a woman.&quot; Ouch! What a chalk-on-blackboard-screeching cliche. Perez-Reverte knows better and should have restrained both Coy and himself. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed the cartographic and navigational references and all the nautical digressions, and as always Perez-Reverte has done a lot of research. We can therefore be fairly sure that the historical framework - already informative and entertaining - is  also accurate. <br />The plot has enough twists in it for it to remain a mystery and  the writing does sparkle in the tense and emotionally charged scenes and the book is definitely a thriller. The problem remains that Perez-Reverte is just too obvious with his literary devices, allusions, and cliches, (did I mention that a narrator is suddenly introduced to help drive the story to its conclusion?). In the end the normal, enjoyable, rhythm and flow of his novels has instead run into some choppy waters.	2002-04-21
US	50452306	R1ZBJUGA3I85HS	0195149890	601638864	His Invention So Fertile: A Life of Christopher Wren	Books	5	14	14	N	N	By his deeds shall a man be known	Sir Christopher Wren has earned his reputation as a man of great learning and marvelous architectural works. He is therefore entitled to another book devoted to his lifework and HIS INVENTION SO FERTILE is just that. Adrian Tinniswood's \\"A Life of Christopher Wren\\" offers a well researched and finely detailed picture of the architectural legacy of Wren and his equally impressive, but lesser known work as an inventor, astronomer, and scientist. As a straight biography of the man - his thoughts and ideas and his family life - the book is a little sketchy. Unlike his friend John Evelyn and Samuel Pepys, Wren was no diarist. He in fact had very little to say about himself, his family, or the times in which he lived. When a biographer says that this is \\"a man you would give a great deal to know\\" you get a clear sense of the frustration Tinniswood faced in unearthing biographical details on Wren. <br />There is still of course quite a story to tell. Wren was born in 1632 and since his father was King's Chaplain at Windsor Castle one of little Christopher's playmates was the young Prince Charles (later Charles II). By the time Wren was 17 he had invented a pneumatic engine and a machine that wrote in the dark. His early interest was in astronomy and he made sundials and created a model of the Solar System. Wren tested the effectiveness of opium as an anaesthetic for prolonged surgery. This is where Tinniswood begins his book and I'd recommend skimming through the unpleasant description of experiments on a dog. A point that Tinniswood brings across, with Wren as a classic example, is that this was a time of knowledge as something whole. Learning was enlightenment in many subjects. Wren distinguished himself in mathematics, physics, medicine, and astronomy. In 1661, Wren not yet 30, was made professor of Astronomy at Oxford. Tinniswood highlights another interesting point about the general historical setting. How is it that this \\"fertile\\" period of great scientific discoveryand expanding intellectual horizons coexisted with a time of civil war and massive political upheaval? The 1640's in England was a time of parliamentary revolt, a King (Charles I) losing his head - literally, and the rise of Oliver Cromwell. Cromwell represented a significant threat to Royalists such as Wren and his family. When the Restoration of the monarchy was achieved and Charles II took the throne, Wren was in a perfect position to benefit from the application of his \\"formidable intellect\\" in the service of his friend the King. Shortly after Wren and others formed a society for the study of science Charles II gave it a Royal Charter in 1661, and thus the Royal Society of London was created. <br />The main substance of the book and the work for which we best know Wren - his architecture - we now see as simply just another career for Wren. The first building he designed was the chapel for Pembroke College, Cambridge but the work that was to  stand him in good stead a few years later was his dome for the Sheldonian Theatre at Oxford. For this he studied Michelangelo's drawings for the dome of St Peter's in Rome, and Wren went to Paris in 1665 to look at Lemercier's Baroque style dome at the church of the Sorbonne. Wren was again fortuitously placed to benefit when following the Great Fire of London in 1666, thousands of houses, over 50 churches, and a significant landmark were destroyed. John Evelyn said it best in his diary \\"I was infinitely concerned to find that goodly church, St Paul's, a sad ruin...\\" Because Wren was so quick on the draw with a post-fire plan for a redesigned St Paul's, there has always been a rumour that Wren himself may have started the fire. Tinniswood does not fan the flame of that falsehood at all.<br />After the task of surveying the fire damage was completed Wren submitted a plan for the redesign of not just St Paul's but of great sections of London. The Rebuilding act of 1667 set some things in place such as wider streets but only afew elements of the city plan were accepted. Even with St Paul's, Wren had to submit many designs. Tinniswood goes into detail on the \\"First Model\\", the \\"Great Model\\" and the finally accepted \\"Warrant Design\\" which incorporated a Latin Cross layout with a large dome. Any architect reading these descriptions will be on familiar ground. Some aspects of the profession such as constantly modifying plans, negotiating and compromise, all have a very old history. <br />Readers who enjoy history, science, and of course architecture will thoroughly enjoy this book. Given that it's a biography it's surprising that those are the fans who'll probably be disappointed. There's nothing new here about Wren the man and what we already know is not much. Look to his work instead; it says a lot that words alone can't express.	2002-04-20
US	50452306	R2M1B1AVNI6HLH	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A basket to carry water	In other words - it's not very effective. Sure all the usual ingredients are here. Oddball characters, a zany plot and Hiaasen's biting satirical wit. Jack Tagger a middle-aged investigative journalist has been dumped at the obituary desk, which in the pecking order of newspaper business we are told, is definitely bottom-feeding territory.  How did an experienced journalist end up here? By criticizing the profit drive and all-else-be-damned approach of the Maggard-Feist corporation - the new owners of Tagger's paper. <br />Tagger's instincts tell him there's something up with the reported death of 39 year old James Bradley Stomarti or Jimmy Stoma as he was better known by friends and fans of his former band -  Jimmy and the Slut Puppies. Tagger isn't impressed by the story of Jimmy's death nor by the less-than-grief-stricken widow Cleo Rio. This is the set-up for the investigation and for Hiaasen to explore his topics of interest and develop the two themes of this novel. Tagger believes in professional journalism and Hiaasen contrasts this with the sell-out style that he sees practiced by large chain newspapers owned by corporations. The other topic is the world of rock music. Here Hiaasen has fun with names such as the bands album \\"Painful Burning Sensation\\" and hit singles such as \\"All Humped Out\\". Lyrics from a more recent hit give us the title for the book and hint at where it went wrong. \\"My baby is a BASKET CASE. A bi-polar mama in leather and lace.\\" Here Hiaasen stretches the humor beyond being ludicrous until its parody and just plain silly.  <br />Where the basket proves that it can't hold water is that over the length of the book the humor becomes more wry smiles and even embarassed grimaces rather than the side-splitting, laugh-out-loud type that we are used to.	2002-04-19
US	50452306	R1S0S67SSV9ADH	0226306348	29610145	Science, Money, and Politics: Political Triumph and Ethical Erosion	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Mix three volatile reactive elements and you get a mess	There are a couple of things about this work by Greenberg that struck me as significant, and added to the fact that the book is very well written, it makes for a very compelling read. Even after many years of scientific journalism and working within the industry Greenberg says that the scientific enterprise makes him \\"feel like a stranger in a strange land.\\" This is no idle boast by someone trying to tout his credentials as an objective observer and skeptic. This is in fact precisely the perspective that Greenberg uses throughout; this arms-length approach allows him to come up with some rather perceptive insights and useful recommendations. The second point of interest, and something for which the scientific community should be commended, is that generally this book has been quite favorably received. Many times when an \\"outsider\\" reports on some subject, the first, and oftentimes the only point, aggrieved professionals focus on is that he's not an \\"expert\\", or he's a \\"non-specialist\\". That doesn't seem to be the case with most of the commentary on this book from the scientific community. And make no mistake, there's enough damning evidence here about the volatile mix of SCIENCE, MONEY, AND POLITICS and the resulting mess of \\"Political Triumph and Ethical Erosion\\", that it would be normal to expect self-defensive counter criticisms.<br />Greenberg traces the changing role of science and its relationship with politics, roughly since the period following WWII. Long gone is the era of the prominent presidential science advisors. Today it is money that dominates the scientific agenda. The chapter on the National Science Foundation (NSF) and its claim a few years ago that the country faced a shortage of tens of thousands of scientists is illustrative. Greenberg shows this lobbying effort for increased funds as a knowingly false issue pushed by a merger of institutional and academic interests. Greenberg quotes a US Office of Management & Budget Report which had this to say about scientists: \\"They are the quintessential special interest group...\\"<br />He has much to say on the inflated claims of many projects. Although he specifically mentions the aborted Superconducting Super Collider (SSC), it is clear he views more recent projects such as the Human Genome Project, and cloning, in the same light. Greenberg doesn't allow the book to end as a mere polemic though. He makes an interesting recommendation for the conversion of the NSF into a National Science, Engineering & Humanities Foundation. This is more in recognition of the need for a new \\"ethic\\" rather than as the desirability of conflating all knowledge to scientific methods as some scientists (E.O Wilson in CONSILIENCE) have recently called for.   <br />Regardless of where you are in the sciences this book is sure to affect you. Many of the excesses and cases of influence and false claims are known about, and more importantly have already been condemned by well thinking professionals. Nevertheless by presenting it in such a readable format Greenberg will enjoy significant readership among the skeptical public. This at a time when science is engaged in the most far reaching issues for humanity, only means that scientists can expect more questions from an interested, and much better informed public.	2002-04-19
US	50452306	RALKMDQITUOWC	0374187029	657720425	The Long Recessional: The Imperial Life of Rudyard Kipling	Books	5	23	28	N	N	Imperialist and chauvinist - yes, misogynist - no	The fact that Gilmour explores Kipling's writing in terms of these themes and how they reflected aspects of his character is a clear indication that this book is no hagiography. The focus here is on the subject of empire and as the subtitle says it is all about: &quot;The Imperial Life of Rudyard Kipling&quot;. Gilmour quotes Kipling as saying that empire was &quot;the fabric of my mental and physical existence.&quot; Kipling seemed to see empire as some divine right of England: <br />GOD of our fathers, known of old,<BR>Lord of our far-flung battle-line,<BR>Beneath whose awful Hand we hold<BR>Dominion over palm and pine<BR>Lord god of Hosts be with us yet,<BR>Lest we forget - lest we forget!<BR>(Recessional)<br />It's this thinking that Gilmour focuses on and thus Kipling's life and works can't be seen as anything but a study in THE LONG RECESSIONAL. That's one emphasis; another is what Gilmour identifies as the &quot;two sides to [Kipling's] head&quot;. With this he's looking at writings that were chauvinistic, ultra-nationalistic and even racist. Poems such as &quot;The Female of  the Species&quot; and &quot;Fuzzy-Wuzzy&quot; being cases in point. Gilmour then shows the other side of the man's head with writings depicting his compassion and humanity - &quot;If&quot; for instance. Kipling's life can't be completely studied outside the context of family and the sadness of losing children and an unhappy marriage. The times and circumstances through which he lived also influenced him. Being born in colonial India and living through the Boer war and WWI all served to paint the lens through which Kipling saw and wrote about life in a rosy imperial tint.	2002-04-18
US	50452306	R2L2QAVWAKIZZP	052594642X	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Identity as something to be shed like dead skin	The theme is familiar but rarely has it been expressed so hauntingly as it is here; and hardly ever has it been explored so completely by a first time writer. Ethnic identity kindled in the heat of miscegenation is beyond love or passion; it tugs at the very essence of who we say we are as individuals and how we claim our nationalities. Add to that mix a colonial setting with issues of wealth and privilege set against powerlessness and self doubt and you've got a rich tableau of human emotion from which to craft your novel and develop characters. This story is set in early 20th century colonial India. That and the central character Pran being the child of an English father and Indian mother immediately creates the setting for exploring the big question of \\"who am I?\\" This is the theme of much of V.S. Naipual's writing such as the MIMIC MEN.<br />There is no need for Pran to mimic anyone at least not for the first 15 years of his life. He is brought up by a Kashmiri lawyer who takes him as his own son. \\"His father will not hear a word spoken against him...when his aunties come visit, they pinch his cheeks and coo...Pran Nath, so beautiful! So pale! Such a perfect Kashmiri!\\". Pran's mother died with her secrets in childbirth and his real father - Englishman Ronald Forrester - is also long gone having died the night Pran was conceived. Pran is therefore not a perfect Kashmiri and this is eventually revealed to his lawyer father who promptly throws the youth out onto the streets. <br />Pran falls into the hands of a eunuch who pimps him out to Major Privett-Clampe a bizarre colonial character. No longer Pran the boy is now Clive. We see the beginnings of the chameleon. At first changes are for survival but soon he is learning, adapting, realizing that by being different people according to others needs he can achieve what he wants. Identity becomes a tool Pran uses with great skill in social climbing. We next meet him in Bombay where he has become Robert, the foster-child of Scottish missionaries. This is only his day time persona because at night he's back on the streets as Pretty Bobby. Still another reincarnation takes place and now we see THE IMPRESSIONIST emerging and developing to his full potential.<br />He stumbles upon a passport and ticket to London. They belonged to an orphaned heir named Jonathan Bridgeman who was killed in a Bombay back alley. No longer satisfied with mimicking those around him, the impressionist assumes Bridgeman's identity and returns to England and Oxford. It's no coincidence that the author has him studying anthropology because he has become something of a curiosity himself. He says to himself \\"how easy it is to slough off one life and take up another\\". Perhaps if he had heeded the implicit warning in his own thoughts he would have realized that a fluid identity is also no identity whatsoever. When Pran falls in love and realizes that his real Indian identity is appropriate for this situation it is too far gone and he can't recover.<br />Like both Naipaul and Waugh before him Kunzru writes a subtle satire. Also like Naipaul he is able to plumb the depths with the tragic elements that oftentimes envelopes the subject of ethnic identity. Kunzru wouldn't have been true to those others if in the end he neatly resolved the identity issue. Such matters have a long history and an interminable future.	2002-04-16
US	50452306	R37QME2EQ7POWQ	0786708409	887743488	Great Hedge of India: The Search for the Living Barrier That Divided a People	Books	4	0	4	N	N	What next from the British Raj?	First we had THE GREAT ARC, a story about the immense project to map the arc of the meridian in India. Now we learn that the British army and the government built a 1500 mile long GREAT HEDGE OF INDIA as part of a customs wall to keep out smugglers of salt. As is to be expected with popular history books on such arcane subjects eccentricity abounds. Also fairly typically of such stories the quest becomes a bit of an obsession for the author. Moxham tells us that at first his search was casual and on a whim. Eventually his desire to find some remnant of the great hedge caused him to make repeated visits to India, learn Hindi, become a useful navigator using GPS tools and techniques, and spend years poring over maps and charts of colonial India. Was it worth it? Much of that depends on the reception of this book but Moxham has the satisfaction of finally finding a remnant of the hedge. We learn this near the end of the book and there's a photograph of a rather nondescript clump of thorny bush that proves it. <br />Finding a bit of the hedge closes the chapter on one aspect of this book. This wraps up the book as a travelogue of Moxham's personal treks through present day India and his imaginary journeys through the time and space of India under the Raj. On another level as a historical account the book is a bit thinner. The facts of the hedge are known. It seperated northern India into two almost equal parts and was designed to prevent salt from being smuggled in from Gujarat and Maharashtra states in the west and sugar from leaving the north. Eventually as part of a custom line it would run from Rawalpindi in the north-west (in present day Pakistan) to Orissa state on the east coast. Because of the various climatic zones it traversed the hedge was made up of different plants. Prickly pear, thorn brush, and bamboo were used. It was over 8 feet high and 5 feet wide with occassional openings marked by a large tamarind tree under which sat a customs shed. It was an impenetrable barrier except for the spots where smugglers had set fire to a few clumps or rats had gnawed away some roots. Moxham tells us that both army and cats were deployed with the hedge eventually being manned by some 14,000 soldiers. We never learn how many cats were required.<br />Moxham's coverage of history includes discussion of the East India Company and its maintenance of the Salt-Tax which consumed up to a fifth of a peasants annual income. The hedge and customs wall gave way in 1879 but the salt-tax remained (albeit at a much reduced rate) right up to the time of Ghandi who in fact used it as a symbol of what he was protesting against. Nobody still defends the Raj but Moxham nevertheless feels compelled to flagellate his country over its past. He says \\"British individuals, and most of all the East India Company itself, took vast sums out of India and spent it in Britain. India, which when the British arrived had been relatively well-off, became much poorer.\\" This is no doubt true but balance is required and Moxham is not quite so strong in making the point that it was a Scotsman named Alan Octavian Hume who repayed India handsomely. Hume was the principal organizer of the Indian National Union in 1885 which became the Congress party, which later under Ghandi led India to independence. The truth is the Raj and it's deeds are history and guilt today over the past not only achieves nothing, it takes away from the enjoyment of the book. A point that supports this comes from a review of this book I read in one of India's daily newspapers. Of interest to the writer wasn't the stale facts of the Raj's misdeeds, but that it was an Englishman who had uncovered the fascinating story of the great hedge of India.	2002-04-15
US	50452306	R2TUCTNEQLT6PC	0375400486	590814580	The Seduction of Place: The City in the Twenty-first Century	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A ground level view from a city lover	What's Joseph Rykwert's perspective and what's his view of the city? It's not very easy to peg down. It's not that of &quot;sociologists, traffic experts, and politicians&quot; as he says that he's &quot;always been struck at how little the physical fabric of the city - its touch and smell as well as its sights - occupies their attention&quot;. Maybe he's more inclined to take an economists view and see things as Jane Jacobs does. Then again maybe not. Rykwert says quite plainly that cities do not develop &quot;naturally&quot;. The perspective is definitely not that of a speeding, disinterested motorist. Rykwert refers to the impact of cars as &quot;catastrophic&quot; and says &quot;I am not, nor have I ever been a driver.&quot; Now we're getting somewhere - a supporter of New Urbanism? Not quite. He has this to say about one of those showpiece communities: &quot;the whole business of 'community' at Celebration is about...real estate&quot;. Rykwert is equally critical of a few architects (modernists), certain building designs (government and institutional), a couple of city plans (Brasilia and New Delhi), and some approaches to urbanism (the New Town concept of post WWII Europe).<br />With all that's wrong it's amazing that this book didn't turn out to be a miserable reading experience. That's partly due to Rykwert's writing skill but moreso because of his very obvious love for the city. THE SEDUCTION OF PLACE and affection for city space is obvious. The depths of his thinking about the urban form is manifest and Rykwert offers a synopsis of what's wrong and also what's to love about a city. &quot;My polemic is not against the disordered, even chaotic city but against the anonymous and alienating one.&quot; With this we finally understand what his perspective is. It's that of a person open to experiencing the personality of a city; that of someone at ground level. Our difficulty with coming up with a clear view of the city might be due to the fact that we haven't experienced the city as Rykwert has and it doesn't yet occupy the same space in our hearts and minds. He invites us to begin. &quot;The very condition of openess is what makes our city of conflicts so attractive to its growing crowd of inhabitants. The lack of any coherent, explicit, image may therefore, in our circumstances, be a positive virtue, not a fault at all, or even a problem.&quot;	2002-04-15
US	50452306	R1JKPZT0IH4ZPI	0151005265	167410764	Selkirk's Island: The True and Strange Adventures of the Real Robinson Crusoe	Books	4	5	10	N	N	The solitude of Alexander Selkirk	What comes to mind when you imagine being marooned on an uninhabited tropical island? A Romantic image of castaways and survivors with stories of man and nature and moments of idyllic solitude is one possibility. The other extreme is the glimpse of the dark beast within us and how it's unleashed when civilizing influences are removed. Both in fiction and real life we have some classic examples. Is there a better imaginative illustration of the &quot;beast&quot; that the LORD OF THE FLIES? And for a recently published true story about someone who allowed wickedness free reign read BATAVIA'S GRAVEYARD. The classic story that depicts the sunnier side of human nature and our innate strength and courage is of course ROBINSON CRUSOE. This book treads a middle ground but perhaps from the subtitle &quot;The True and Strange Adventures of the Real Robinson Crusoe&quot; we get a hint of where the author's sentiments lie. <br />The author may admire the fortitude of the main character of her story - a young Scottish seaman named Alexander Selkirk - but she is not at all hesitant about showing his true colors. Born in 1680 to a village tanner Selkirk decided that such sedentary work was not for him. He ran away for a life of adventure (oftentimes dangerous) on the seas. Such a life suited him as he was impetuous and ill-tempered. At the age of 23 he was named sailing master of the galley Cinque-Ports captained by Thomas Stradling. The galley and a larger ship - the St George - under the command of William Dampier set off on a privateering expedition in search of Spanish Galleons. In 1704 after a fruitless year at sea the galley arrived at the uninhabited Juan Fernandez archipelago in the south Pacific, 400 miles west of Valparaiso, Chile. After a month of rest and replenishment Stradling decided to set sail again. Selkirk said the ship wasn't seaworthy and got into a violent argument with his captain and demanded to be put ashore. Stradling gladly obliged and left the man and some supplies behind on what now became SELKIRK'S ISLAND. <br />Diana Souhami begins her book with a description of the natural beauty of this volcanic archipelago which is now protected by UNESCO as a Worldwide Reserve of the Biosphere. No further colonization is permitted and the islands population of mostly lobster fishermen and their families is capped at 500. Chile has made the most of its tourism potential by naming the islands Santa Clara, Marinero Alejandro Selkirk, and of course Robinson Crusoe Island. <br />Using sailing logs, seafarers accounts of the voyages, and the journals of Dampier, and Selkirk's eventual rescuer - Captain Woodes Rogers - the author tells a tale that shows hardship at sea may have been preferable to time spent alone on land. The challenge for castaways is always more than mere physical survival. The intense loneliness that comes with having only oneself as company oftentimes exerts a psychological toll. Selkirk's experience was no different. He was marooned for over 4 years but it was the first year that was the hardest mentally. He immediately regretted his decision to stay and spent the first 8 months in a cave near the seashore paranoid that if he moved he would miss seeing a ship and also in fear of imagined wild animals inland.<br />There was fresh water and good shelter on the island and Selkirk eventually adjusted. His diet included turtles, seals, lobster, and when he went inland he found turnips, cabbage, palm nuts, peppers, and plently of wild goats. In reading this book i've come to believe that Selkirk may very well have been the first Westerner to develop what is now a well known West Indian style of cooking meat. &quot;Jerked&quot; meat is slowly cooked over pimento wood fires with pepper and spices liberally applied.<br />If we were hoping for a positve human story as the ending of this tale then we were misleading ourselves. Selkirk did have his bible with him and read verses out loud so as not to forget how to speak,but it seems the lessons were lost on him. Upon his eventual return to Scotland in 1711 there was some initial joy. He was welcomed home by friends and family and he met and eloped with a dairymaid named Sophia Bruce. A return to his old ways quickly ensued. He became reclusive and irrascible and lost his temper and battered a man. This prompted him to decide that the sea was still best and he set off leaving behind Sophia and another woman and a name for himself as a bigamist. <br />Perhaps Souhami is correct in portraying Selkirk and others as greedy, selfish, and quite brutish and vile characters. Afterall this was a time of pirates and privateers and of loose allegiances both at the personal and national levels. In doing so though she takes a strongly negative view of human nature and throws cold water on Selkirk as a model for Robinson Crusoe. It's actually left to Daniel Defoe and others of his generation such as the great poet and hymn writer William Cowper to offer a more charitable and ultimately redeeming view: <br />&quot;Society, Friendship, and Love<BR>Divinely bestowed upon man,<BR>Oh had I the wings of a dove<BR>How soon would I taste you again!<BR>My sorrows I then might assuage<BR>In the ways of religion and truth,<BR>Might learn from the wisdom of age,<BR>And be cheered by the sallies of youth.&quot;<BR>(The Solitude of Alexander Selkirk by William Cowper)<br />Souhami doesn't go anywhere near this at all. As a travelogue the book is great with sufficient details on the idyllic setting of the islands. The history is well researched also. It's just that for a book with a central theme on the character of man the author disappointingly doesn't explore the subject fully enough.	2002-04-14
US	50452306	RE9YWCGZVLBW7	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;il Duomo&quot; as icon of an age	A possible reason why reviews of this book are so divergent is that BRUNELLESCHI'S DOME is so much more than an architectural triumph that for some it seems unlikely that such a slim book by a journalist could do it full justice. Ross King however fully recognizes the significance of the dome of the Santa Maria del Fiore cathedral and the mastery of it's creator Filippo Brunelleschi. He pays tribute to how both the man and his creation were symbolic of the great creative genius that we have come to see as typifying the golden age of the Renaissance. King also clearly shows how such individuals and their work were a boon to the continuing growth and influence of the Renaissance as a whole. Not only is the dome a wonderful architectural triumph - at 143 feet in diameter it is still the largest dome in existence - the very act of creating it spurred other developments. Construction techniques, machines and tools, methods of organizing work, architectural design and drafting; all had to be modified, improved, and in some cases newly invented to accomplish the goal.<br />Any reading you do on the Renaissance will be sure to mention southern Italy and the pioneering role Florence had in the movement. With Florence you're dealing with the finest sculpture, painting, and architecture, and with Brunelleschi's dome you've got distilled into one creation all that the Renaissance stood for.	2002-04-14
US	50452306	R3QH1UQNLMRVEZ	1582431205	714562311	The Trouser People: A Story of Burma in the Shadow of the Empire	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Needs a bit of hitching up	Not too much adjusting required but the author should have toned down the purple prose a bit and he could have been a little more organized with his story. Andrew Marshall is an intrepid journalist and he gives us views of a Burma that not many westerners have had access to since a repressive military regime took over in 1962 and renamed the country Myanmar. Marshall juxtaposes his present day adventures against the story of George Scott a Scotsman and \\"a natural imperialist who was instrumental in imposing British colonial rule in Upper Burma.\\" Scott was a tiny man with a large waxed mustache who had a fondness for oversized pith helmets. He came to Burma in 1875 and worked first as a teacher in Rangoon and eventually became a skilled photographer and keen observer of local cultures and customs. He wrote a well respected anthropological book about the hill tribes of upper Burma - the Shan, Kayan and the Padaung and their \\"giraffe\\" women with necks elongated by the wearing of multiple copper necklaces. Scott was also responsible for introducing soccer to the Burmese and in contrast to the locals who hitched  their sarongs up around their thighs \\"like a large decorative nappy\\" the British played as they came and remained THE TROUSER PEOPLE. <br />It's odd that it's in discussing soccer that we get the notion of how the British became the trouser people because soccer is only lightly touched upon in this book. Marshall attends soccer matches and uses it to illustrate some points about Burmese culture and says that part of their love for the game is because it \\"is so much like fighting.\\" But other than the connection with Scott soccer just doesn't fit in and is one of the reasons why the story sometimes feels disjointed.<br />When the book is good and where Marshall shines is when he discusses the modern day trouser people - the ruling army junta - and present-day Burma. He says the commanding General is \\"Burma's Poo Bah, big Brother and (it was rumoured) most prominent closet homosexual.\\" Conditions in Burma today are grim. Long gone is the imperial glory that was Mandalay. Instead upper Burma is home to the formerly head-hunting but now mostly heroin-dealing Wa tribe. Marshall's close call with the UWSA (United Wa State Army) is reminiscent of his hero's encounter with the Wa 100 years previously when Scott got a group of headhunters to laugh so long  that they forgot what they had come for. <br />Marshall had a lot of material to work with here: fascinating tribal cultures; a cruel Burmese government that oppresses ethnic minorities and democratic opponents such as Aung San Suu Kyi; Scott and his history and legacy; and the modern day drug lords and their mini-kingdom of Mongla. Marshall's device of using his and Scott's travels to explore Burma and its culture works up to a point. As a travelogue the book is fine but there are too few real insights or explanations and Marshall can't seem to bring it all together. Adventures, close-calls, and stories about soccer and trouser people are fun but we are left wondering about larger issues such as: How did Burma get to this point of being a failed state? To the extent that Marshall's sampling of history and jumbled story doesn't answer the question you may come away a little bit dissatisfied.	2002-04-14
US	50452306	R16GODJPSRR1LM	067964086X	482900418	The Renaissance: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Pocket history of a golden age	The beauty of this book is its size and simplicity. Perhaps the best thing the compilers of the Modern Library Chronicles Series did was use historians who have the literary style and writing ability to clearly explain the complexities of THE RENAISSANCE and possess the skill to do so in under 200 pages. I can't imagine a situation like this  - but if ever an occassion arose where you would need immediate access to some fact on Renaissance architecture, literature, paintings or sculpture - you could just pop out this little pocket-sized volume. It's that small. <br />The book begins and ends with a discussion of the economic, technological, and cultural factors that both brought about the Renaissance, and contributed to its decline. Printing by movable type was &quot;the central technological event of the Renaissance&quot; and was a prime mover in the spread of the culture of this golden age. Johnson in fact says it was &quot;the most important cultural event by far of the entire period.&quot; Johnson shows how the Reformation with its demands for popular and vernacular forms of religion had a concomitant influence on cultural forms such as music and painting. The polyphonic complexity and richness in music, and Gothic influences in art, were replaced with emphasis on simplicity and austerity. The Renaissance he says became &quot;a spent force&quot; and &quot;by the 1560's and 1570's it was dead.&quot; This may be true of the Renaissance as a movement but it had now &quot;become part of the basic repertoire of European arts, subsumed in the Baroque and in Rococo, ready to spring to life again in the neoclassicism of the late eighteenth century.&quot;<br />In between his explanations on Renaissance's rise and fall are discussions on the main topics of interest in this period. In the development of architecture Johnson makes a distinction between Gothic form and style and a Gothic spirit. The former captivated all, but in southern Italy (particularly Florence) where Renaissance architectural styles first emerged, there was a longing for something else. From within the local culture an emphasis on classical themes rather than Gothic clutter emerged. A theory and practice of architecture was developed that looked at &quot;a balance between the elements so that there is no dominant feature but a pervading style that brings the whole together.&quot; Florentine innovations were also significant in painting techniques. Johnson mentions that fresco painting methods were amended to incorporate a greater emphasis on drawings and draftmanship. These preparatory sketches are of course now works of art in their own right but then they were simply tools to allow artists to explore other subjects such as the human form. Johnson says that &quot;the glories of the High Renaissance, and its celebration - one might almost say sanctification - of the human body, would have been impossible without this meticulous tradition of draftmanship.&quot; <br />There are some equally interesting insights into Renaissance sculpture and literature, and it's all written in a very readble, clear, and concise prose. This is a good introduction to the Renaissance period.	2002-04-12
US	50452306	R3IHMU94HCRGNI	026205065X	883073626	The Elusive Quest for Growth : Economists' Adventures and Misadventures in the Tropics	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The &quot;take-off&quot; theory of industrial growth...	... has long since crashed and burned. Many other economic solutions for the problem of Third World poverty have been tried and most have failed miserably. Import substitution, currency devaluation to stimulate exports, debt forgiveness, and more recently currency boards and dollarization. Look no further than the current situation in Argentina for a spectacular example of the failure of dollarization. <br />Recent events are only the immediate reminders that the policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have a long history in a lot of countries of not being able to make a positive difference. Indeed in many countries of the Third World or the &quot;tropics&quot; as Easterly euphemistically calls these countries, the citizens see an arrangement with the IMF as a prescription for social and economic pain. Easterly asks how is it that these institutions with significant capital to lend have been unable to foster development? And why, with intelligent economists (including Easterly himself) and bright policy makers on staff, has the World Bank been unable to make improvements; in fact contributing to making some things much worse? Easterly is perceptive with his questions and unflinching in answering that many of the problems originate within his own organization. He says the problem can be as simple as not asking the right questions. In the face of data which showed educational levels throughout the tropics rising steadily and poverty still remaining a constant, Easterly is critical of those who didn't even ask the most basic question of &quot;education for what?&quot;<br />The central argument of the book and why it remains THE ELUSIVE QUEST FOR GROWTH is that there has been a reluctance to match aid to incentives. Governments like people respond to inducements and the challenge is to find the right balance and weighting to incentives between donors, governments, and the people. <br />The book is well written and Easterly offers anecdotes from his personal experiences which adds color to what could otherwise have been a dull academic exercise. Even if it were dull (it's not) there was little chance of the book being ignored. Easterly offers a unique perspective of the critical &quot;insider&quot; and he offers some interesting insights. Economists will of course enjoy this book. Unfortunately it may not get a much wider readership and that's a pity because Easterly was deliberate in making the book non-technical. It's also broad enough to appeal to a general audience, but the question remains: Who's interested and who's reading this? That's not a question Easterly would ask of economists but of our general American reading public. It's also a question that will only become more relevant as globalization remains the ultimate economic goal.	2002-04-12
US	50452306	R21EQ7PK17EU44	0345422775	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of Species Updated	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Ghostwriter Jones	No great adventure, quest, or mystery here. No assistance with this book from beyond by Darwin himself although Jones does say \\"helpful though that would have been.\\" No, instead in the best traditions of Ghostwriting, we have a work faithful to it's original with full recognition and even admiration for the author. The original is of course THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES by Charles Darwin, which Jones says is \\"without doubt, the book of the millennium\\". Yet it's not a widely read book. Broadening readership is one of Jones' objectives but he also tackles creationism and puts the social sciences in their place. The latter point being that \\"evolution is to the social sciences as statues are to birds: a convenient platform upon which to deposit badly digested ideas.\\" Attempts to apply the laws of natural science to civilization are, Jones says, \\"more or less infantile\\" and are thus not even discussed. That's interesting for two reasons: (1) sociobiology, evolutionary psychology, and attempts to come up with a synthesis of all knowledge are very current topics of debate. Some of it originating with Jones' fellow biologists such as E O Wilson in CONSILIENCE and Jared Diamond's GUNS GERMS AND STEEL. Others by non-scientists may be what he was refering to as \\"infantile\\" although recent works such as Robert Wright's NONZERO and historian Felipe Fernandez-Armesto's CIVILIZATIONS are sophisticated, entertaining, and definitely thought provoking. (2) Jones is himself an evolutionary psychologist yet his book doesn't bring up the subject at all. Nor is it only sociobiology and Wilson that is missing from discussion. There's no Dawkins, Gould, or any modern scientist mentioned.<br />Jones has instead stayed very close to Darwin using the chapter titles and structure of the original book and in fact lifting the entire last chapter of Darwin's conclusions and reproducing it here. What Jones adds in this update is current examples of the process of natural selection and a modern, readable writing style (oftentimes very humorous as is the style of so many writers on evolutionary biology. Is there some selection of fitness for humor taking place here?). I can think of a couple of his colleagues who could use a little of Jones' levity and ease up on the debate a bit. Maybe he had them in mind when he said \\"the sea squirt, after an active life, settles on the sea floor, and like a professor given tenure, absorbs its brain.\\" <br />Jones ranges far and wide with his restatement of how natural selection works. Given his view that \\"there is no mystery to Darwin's machine: it is no more than genetics plus time\\" it is to be expected that the illustrations he uses are both meaningful and are explained in a straightforward way. Beginning with a discussion of HIV/AIDS which is shown to contain Darwin's \\"entire argument\\" of \\"variation, a struggle for existence, and natural selection that in time leads to new forms of life\\" Jones then goes on to use whales, birds, cats, dogs, argiculture, and even  zoos to illustrate that this process - \\"the factory for the almost impossible\\" - can have some unusual results. Cincinnati zoos breeding of albino tigers at above normal rates being a case in point.  <br />Well written with much humor and obviously directed at the generalist as an introduction to Darwin's great thesis, this book accomplishes what it set out to do. It's not perfect - like natural selection there are errors, although with evolution it's through reproduction not from poor editing and cross checking - but the book nevertheless is as close to the original as you could want while bringing it up to date and making this important subject much more readable.	2002-04-07
US	50452306	R3TZI609X71KDS	0306808846	337964714	Key Moments In Architecture	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Evolution of the city	This book offers a fairly comprehensive overview of the development of the city from the first stepping stones of Jericho, the Ziggurat at Ur, and Babylon, to the city of the future and the never ending search for utopia. It's a broad history and it's also the foundation for the understanding of ourselves. Cities are &quot;a curiously potent compound of buildings and people. The way people create, use and interact with the fabric of their urban concentrations make for a single entity.&quot; This book uses the &quot;medium of architecture&quot; to take a very informative look at that single entity. It's also a well illustrated look with over 200 photographs and drawings - at least one per page and most in full color. <br />There are chapters on Greek, Roman, and Islamic styles which touch on domes, columns, vaults, arches, and the first attempts at urban planning. Next we see the contrasts of dark Medieval  architecture and its Gothic cathedrals with Renaissance Italy where churches were less grand but the vaulted domes were no less glorious. Emerging from classicism we look next at style and Baroque architecture and then comes an emphasis on the importance of structure. Other chapters look at how the experience of empire  influenced style. This is the period beginning in the early 19th century when many of the great cities were laid out and some of the worlds best known landmarks were erected. Finally there is discussion of the International styles of Expressionism and Modernism and following that Post-modernism. Add in short fact files on architectural details as well as mini profiles on some important names in the field (Brunelleschi, Bernini, Wren, Frank Lloyd Wright, Gropius, Mies, Graves, and Sir Norman Foster) and you have here a well planned and thoughtful book. <br />Urban planners, geographers, designers, and of course architects will thoroughly enjoy this book. So will those of us who simply want to know more about the built environment we see around us everyday. The book says it best: &quot;architecture is the visible and tangible expression of our society's taste, culture, politics and preoccupations. City architecture, quite simply, is a continuing monument to what we are.&quot;	2002-04-07
US	50452306	R3KKM1LPRC2T23	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	3	69	101	N	N	"Come on Toto let's go home to Kansas"	James Howard Kunstler would perfectly understand Dorothy's wish to return to simpler days and a happier life. He argues here that pre-WWII small-town America with it's sense of community represents all that was good about urban living. In contrast to that what we now have is THE GEOGRAPHY OF NOWHERE which is large central-city and suburban conglomerations incessantly spreading outwards, all interconnected by a network of freeways. Or as Kunstler's says \\"the whole destructive, wasteful, toxic, agoraphobia-inducing spectacle\\". This brings up my problem with the book - it's overly angry tone and the hyperbole that is used throughout.<br />The book starts off well enough with a brief description of early colonial settlement patterns and the planning and design elements that governed our first towns and cities. There was a connection with community and an appreciation for space. Also a recognition that there can even be romantic and spiritual elements in how and where we lived. Kunstler then goes on to briefly mention architectural schools of thought and how changes in thinking have been reflected in our urban landscape. This is a pastel-shaded description of the first few chapters but if it's purple-prose you wish there is more than enough of that here. Also some of Kunstler descriptions of the more blighted aspects of our landscape are scarlet with anger. After describing Modernism and Postmodern approaches in architecture (and overly simplifying the differences between them) Kunstler is flowery yet dismissive: \\"Worshipping the machine and industrial methods as ends in themselves, they became the servants of an economy that plundered the future in order to power the engines of production and consumption for the present.\\" As for the architects, far from being motivated by belief in their work or some element of professionalism, Kunstler says they are only interested because it was \\"the huge, out-of-scale, inhuman, corporate glass boxes that put paychecks on their desks every Friday.\\" There is too much of this anger here and contrary to his publishers who describe it as \\"elegant and often hilarious\\" it's actually tedious and sometimes misplaced. In describing the silliness of Tomorrowland's vision of the future, Kunstler comes up with an inappropriate metaphor using dead and thus defenseless Walt Disney himself: \\"Walt's spiritual life must have been a torment.\\" And after reading the following paragraph I completely lost track of what this book was about. It's about urban blight, right? \\"Families crack under the pressure. Fathers unable to cope take off for good. Mothers slip into public assistance, depression, obesity, alcoholism. Yet they keep having babies. There are parasitical boyfriends and a heightened incidence of child abuse...\\"<br />There are some good points and the first part of the book before Kunstler got really upset is not bad. His enthusiasm for the subject and his passion in wanting a better urban America is obvious. If he were to put forward his recommendations for change in a less strident tone then maybe more would be done. Overall though there is too much histrionics and we shouldn't blame Dorothy if she said \\"Come on Toto let's go home, but leave the book behind\\".every Friday.\\" There is too much of this anger here and contrary to his publishers who describe it as \\"elegant and often hilarious\\" it's actually tedious and sometimes misplaced. In describing the silliness of Tomorrowland's vision of the future, Kunstler comes up with an inappropriate metaphor using dead and thus defenseless Walt Disney himself: \\"Walt's spiritual life must have been a torment.\\" And after reading the following paragraph I completely lost track of what this book was about. It's about urban blight, right? \\"Families crack under the pressure. Fathers unable to cope take off for good. Mothers slip into public assistance, depression, obesity, alcoholism. Yet they keep having babies. There are parasitical boyfriends and a heightened incidence of child abuse...\\"<br />There are some good points and the first part of the book before Kunstler got really upset is not bad. His enthusiasm for the subject and his passion in wanting a better urban America is obvious. If he were to put forward his recommendations for change in a less strident tone then maybe more would be done. Overall though there is too much histrionics and we shouldn't blame Dorothy if she said \\"Come on Toto let's go home, but leave the book behind\\".	2002-04-06
US	50452306	R131G1JJ9XKXW0	0465023266	348030697	The Cash Nexus: Money and Power in the Modern World, 1700-2000	Books	4	24	24	N	N	What? No introduction by Maggie Thatcher?	It's pretty obvious from the outset where Ferguson's arguments are going in this book and what his political philosophy and world-view is. He states in quite plainly in the end. In contrast to Paul Kennedy who argued in THE RISE AND FALL OF GREAT POWERS that &quot;imperial overstretch&quot; is the economic causal factor that was directly linked with &quot;Great Power&quot; decline, Ferguson sees political will (or the lack thereof) and &quot;understretch&quot; as the problem. He says in the world today &quot;we've got economic globalization very much on a 19th century model&quot; however &quot;there isn't a global policeman with the kind of interests Britain had then&quot;. The real difficulty in his view is that &quot;the leaders of the one state with the economic resources to make the world a better place [the US] lack the guts to do it.&quot; OK, so Ferguson  sees the US adopting an &quot;imperial&quot; approach to world affairs, and he supports Friedman and Fukuyama who argued that the spread of capitalism and democracy are neccessary for freedom to bloom. Before we look at whether he convincingly makes his point there is a basic question that puts this whole discussion in context. How persuasive can a British writer be in directing his argument to Americans for a more economically activist role by their country, and how are we supposed to read this in our new world of narrower priorities? <br />If our American economic and political system is to be supported and encouraged, and we are his intended audience, then who is the target of Fergusons criticism? It's axiomatic that it's Marxist historians and supporters of historicism as Ferguson sees nothing &quot;deterministic&quot; or directional about economic history. Ferguson instead convincingly argues that a CASH NEXUS exists and it is there, in the linkage between money and power, where the real story lies. Indeed he says quite clearly that &quot;money does not make the world go round...it has been political events - above all,wars - that have shaped the institutions of modern economic life: tax-collecting, bureaucracies, central banks, bond markets, stock exchanges.&quot;<br />The whole book is a development on this point. Financial statistics and bond yields are presented in chapters such as &quot;The Money Printers: Default and Debasement&quot;, &quot;Of Interest&quot;, &quot;Dead Weights and Tax-eaters: The social History of Finance&quot; and &quot;Bubbles and Busts: Stock Markets in the Long Run&quot;. These chapters are obviously analytical and there is sometimes a flood of data that tends to dampen enjoyment of the book. The latter half of the book where Ferguson spends more time making the connections between money, power, politics, culture, and warfare and less time analyzing, is both more enjoyable to read and more instructive.<br />It's an interesting book well written and certainly very opinionated. It's broad ranging covering the last 300 years of western economic development and interdisciplinary in scope touching on philosophy, political science, geography as well as it's main subjects of history, finance, and economics. Opinionated history like this is always contentious but it's equally always enjoyable to read.	2002-04-05
US	50452306	RGU2C4UWVSTS3	0374527970	874707360	Islam's Black Slaves: The Other Black Diaspora	Books	4	9	20	N	N	Perspective and context	It's a tricky proposition reviewing any book on Islam after September 11. Invariably such books, and comments on them, are seen in a political context of either antipathy or hostility towards Islam - or at the other end of the scale - supporting an anti-Western (especially anti-American) world-view and an \\"it's-our-fault\\" approach to explaining world history. There is a real chance of this with a book that has a provocative title such as ISLAM'S BLACK SLAVES with it's hint that the author has uncovered some little known historical story. Also the sub-title \\"The Other Black Diaspora\\" suggests that for Western readers weary of reading about the \\"evil\\" and \\"racist\\" past of their culture, there is the possibility of Islam getting its comeuppance for the \\"other\\" diaspora and its own dark deeds. <br />If that's the only framework in which you wish to read this book then you'll be disappointed for three reasons.(1) the book was written before September 11 and therefore offers no light whatsoever on the nature of Islam in that context (2) Islam and slavery is too complex a subject and involves too long a history to distill to a narrow U.S. vs them perspective and (3) most significantly, the author himself has an entirely different perspective. Segal is a South-African born Englishman who was an anti-apartheid activist and his interest is in human-rights issues. Segal doesn't tell you his background. Not all authors do and it's not always relevant especially when you're writing history and facts rule over personal interest. So against this background I found this book both informative and sufficiently balanced and think that it does a good job in covering Islam's role in slavery.  <br />One of the striking differences between slavery in Islamic countries and the slavery of the Atlantic middle-passage is the size and scope of the trade. Islamic slavery existed for a much longer time, spanning some 1300 years. It pre-dated Western slavery in Africa and shamefully, it still exists (more on that shortly). It however never involved anywhere near the numbers the Atlantic trade did, nor was it the same in law and economics. The author says that in Islam slaves were people, not chattel. Their economic contribution came through use as concubines or as household slaves and soldiers. Furthermore eunuchs and some black slaves were highly valued and some even owned their own slaves and acquired wealth and power. Lastly the author makes the point that in Islam, slavery was never fraught with the racism that was such a feature of that in the West. His specific point is that there was never any miscegnation law in Islam.<br />So far it seems that the scales are unbalanced and the book is tending towards taking a more benevolent view of Islamic slavery in contrast to what we practiced. Perhaps that is because the preponderance of evidence makes it so. Segal does however end the book with some stinging criticisms of present-day Sudan's practice of enslaving the Dinka tribe and the Nation of Islam's all too infrequent comments on this in favor of its more regular denouncements of Israel. (As an aside - Minister Farrakhan recently attended a Jewish synagogue in Jamaica and worshipped with the congregation there - rapprochement?) The slave trade in Sudan is a complex issue. Christian Solidarity International - an organization that Segal seems to support by using their claim that they have recently bought freedom for some 14,550 Dinka slaves - can't itself avoid being discussed in context. UNICEF has criticized CSI for buying freedom for slaves and in effect creating a market. <br />The human rights concern might be the authors interest but politics is a pervasive subject and the subject matter here can't avoid this perspective. Reading this book brings to mind some questions only some of which are asked and answered by the author. In the end the book then can't help but be looked at in terms of not only what it covers but what it leaves out. For instance:Why is there no mention of the slavery in West Africa where the trade is between blacks and has nothing to do with religion or race? Isn't slavery enough of A PROBLEM FROM HELL as Stephanie Power argued recently that we should do something?	2002-04-04
US	50452306	RQG0JDZF99ZSZ	0801865409	68963306	Escapism	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Cure for a figurative head cold	Yi-Fu Tuan says that &quot;a human being is an animal who is congenitally indisposed to accept reality as it is.&quot; He says ESCAPISM is the strategy we employ to rid ourselves of the humdrum of daily life which he likens to suffering a head cold. The book itself is a good head-clearing remedy. Tuan covers a wide range of topics in human cultural history and gives us a lot to think about. <br />He gives an &quot;unusual&quot; perspective on nature and culture, looking at the very meaning of reality and exploring why, traditionally, &quot;myths&quot;, &quot;daydreaming&quot;, and &quot;fantasy&quot; have such negative connotations. This is especially puzzling he says in light of escapism being not only a historical human impulse but also a universal one. He shows this with examples from Eastern and Western culture. Another puzzle is why, if it's so intrinsic to our nature, do we choose to make some explorations of it so painful? His chapter on &quot;Hell&quot; looks at the less-than-pleasant escapes that we have inflicted on ourselves.<br />Tuan is a geographer of some repute and he exhibits his masterly command of exploration of unknown spaces and places with this fascinating journey through our imagination, culture, and psyche.<BR>He is occasionally humorous and writes in a spare, straightforward style. Reading this book is escapism itself as it will make you think, and in a final bit of perceptive wisdom Tuan has this to say: &quot;Even in modern America, thinking is suspect. It is something done by the idly curious or by discontented people.&quot; If that's true then I endorse being idly curious and recommend escaping for a while with this book.	2002-04-03
US	50452306	R1J6VWJLBB8NSH	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	4	51	54	N	N	Procrustean argument or prophetic vision?	E.O.Wilson has come up with an arcane word for the title of his book, the meaning of which you will not find in your regular OED. I eventually read elsewhere that CONSILIENCE is the convergence, jumping, or bringing together of knowledge. The long time spent in frustrating dictionary searches has caused me to yield to temptation and toss an equally odd word at Wilson's book in this review. Is it indeed Procrustean by being a created and arbitrary standard that he demands intellectual conformity to, or is he simply ahead of his time and has a real vision of a coming &quot;unity of knowledge&quot;? <br />For persons in the humanities and social sciences this book may sting a little. Wilson is used to criticisms of his own work because of his insistence on using sociobiology as the lens through which he sees all. Long ago after having a jug of water dumped on his head and being told he &quot;was all wet&quot;, Wilson seemingly realized that in order to be read he would have to develop a moderate, well reasoned, and mild writing style. You'll never read one of his books and come away thinking &quot;diatribe&quot; or &quot;polemic&quot;. He even writes with a recognition and acknowledgement of his own biases. He says here that &quot;ethics is everything&quot; and for Wilson this largely means environmental ethics, and if after reading his book, critics want to say he's a reductionist, Wilson admits he's &quot;guilty, guilty, guilty.&quot; Wilson however is quite able to give as good as he gets and the subject of his critical penmanship is the arts, humanities, and social sciences, and their &quot;ideological committments&quot; and lack of a &quot;web of causal explanation.&quot; He thus sees them as weak in comparison to the natural sciences and poor templates for explaining all we see around us. Furthermore he looks back on the Enlightenment and says that those thinkers &quot;got it mostly right&quot; and achieved a wholeness in contrast to what we have now where divisions in academia are &quot;artifacts of scholarship.&quot;<br />My background is in economics and geography and I don't have a problem with him saying there should be more rigidity and rules in those fields of study, and I agree that there should be more environmental awareness in economics. Maybe Wilson is onto something and sociobiology as a synthesis science might be a forerunner of the blended knowledge that will finally give us a clear view of the Big Picture. Who knows? His argument does tend to falter a bit though when he grasps for the humanities and discusses the laws that might be applicable in art and philosophy. It's a tenuous grip indeed as he is unconvincing in explaining how you achieve &quot;objective truth&quot; by &quot;contemplation of the unknown&quot; which he admits is was philosophy is. And please tell me what law governs the interpretation of a work of art?<br />It's a fascinating book and very well written. It's obvious Wilson has done a lot of research on the subject and he's a brilliant thinker and he may be mostly right. But Einstein the great unifier himself, once said that &quot;imagination is more important than knowledge&quot;, so i'm inclined to go with that until Wilson or someone else can prove otherwise..	2002-04-02
US	50452306	RMELKQVOEJGOT	0691087369	536718015	A Guide to the Birds of the West Indies	Books	3	27	28	N	N	More of a reference book than field guide	Just slightly smaller than 8.5 x 11 inch letter size with 500 pages and an inflexible, non-weather resistant cover, this book is too big and rigid to fit in anything other than a back-pack. It's not a quick reference field guide than you can quickly pop out of your coat pocket, and you'll ruin it if it gets caught in an otherwise lovely tropical drizzle. Additionally the way the book is organized does not facilitate quick on-the-fly identifications, the very kind that you most frequently need in the field. For instance, the first 200 plus pages contain color plates of the birds (86 full page plates in total, each containing between 1 and 15 species). If you open the book flat you're looking at the color plate on the right page and a numbered list of the birds on the left giving common name, biological name, size in centimeters and inches and a page reference number. It's this last point - page reference number - where A GUIDE TO THE BIRDS OF THE WEST INDIES really shows up its weakness in the field. The range and distribution maps, distinguishing characteristics, flight, voice, habitat and nesting information; basically all the data you'll need to pin down a firm sighting, are all on a different page than the birds picture. This information comprises the second half of the book. <br />Birders will have the same problem with this book as we do with all those guides that present illustrations and/or photographs of the bird on one page and it's range map and other vital information somewhere else. A typical example. The bird takes to the air. From the glimpse we get we know it's a hummingbird with green back and white underparts. The most likely candidate we come up with is a female Streamertail. Fine, except that once we flip to the back and read about range we realize the Streamertail in endemic to Jamaica and we're still in Puerto Rico; I guess it did look more like a female Antillean Mango afterall! It's worse with warblers, flycatchers, and especially vireos. There is much flipping back and forth between pictures and descriptions, particularly so for novice birders who may not be familiar with endemics and the very limited ranges that are major factors to be aware of when dealing with bird species in islands. <br />This book is very colorful and informative and very up to date. It's just not very well laid out for work in the field. I wish I could be more helpful by recommending another book but unfortunately there are issues with most of the regional guides. Rather than a West Indian guide you may want to use island specific ones (some available locally) for your field trips and leave this one in the hotel for detailed reference later.	2002-04-01
US	50452306	R1G94ORZK501XA	0805053891	634775364	The Shadow of Kilimanjaro: On Foot Across East Africa	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Not at all patronizing	Rick Ridgeway has written a very informative and entertaining account of his 300 mile hike West to East across southern Kenya in 1997. The walk was metaphorically in THE SHADOW OF KILIMANJARO beginning on the summit of that great mountain and spanning the different ecological zones of mountain moraine, foothills, savannah, scrub, desert, and finally tropical white sand beaches of the Indian Ocean coast near Malindi. More significantly Ridgeway writes about his journey in the shadow of others who have written famously on Kenya, most significantly Hemingway, Dinesen, and Blixen. At yet another level this story is set in the shadow of Kenya's colonial history and its current struggles as a developing nation trying to make its way in the modern world. <br />Ridgeway deals with all the relevant issues - ecology and the environment, conservation, domestic politics, the economy, tourism, the romantic literary images, the colonial legacy, the Mau Mau uprisings, cultural, ethnic, and social issues. And he deals with them in the way good travel writing should. Simply present the facts as you get them and let others speak their truths. No moralizing and very little contextualizing and therefore very refreshing.<br />The image of Kenya that emerges is that of a real country. Not too much of the fantasy and gloss of a romantic wilderness nor the equally unreal vision of warring tribes at THE ENDS OF THE EARTH. Just reality. Strengths, weaknesses, beauty, blemishes, issues, agendas, and concerns. All the things that face a people making their way on a rapidly globalizing planet. Although Ridgeway's Kenya is a very different place than the country I knew in the 1960's when I lived there in my youth, it's still as rich and as alive as I remember it and Ridgeway has done an excellent job of bringing it home.	2002-04-01
US	50452306	R1M1M95UHG6BLL	0394587324	854142897	Cities in Civilization	Books	4	19	19	N	N	The Jacques Barzun of the city	This book reminds me very much of Jacques Barzun's FROM DAWN TO DECADENCE both in size and scope. Barzun looked at 500 years of Western cultural life and Sir Peter Hall has much the same interests, although he goes back some 2500 years and is more narrowly focused on urban culture. The title CITIES IN CIVILIZATION could be the other way around as Hall is interested in the Golden Ages that seem to have been a feature of all the great cities in history. \\"The Renaissance\\" he says \\"was an urban phenomenon; so was every great burst of creativity in human history.\\" Hall then is seeking the civilization in cities. <br />Two other books that this one could be (should be, has been) compared with are THE CULTURE OF CITIES and THE CITY IN HISTORY, both by Lewis Mumford. Hall knows this and quickly dispatches the comparisons. \\"I do not at all share the Mumfordian view that the great city is doomed.\\" Fair enough but his work remains valuable to urban historians and Hall's comment that \\"Mumford was  fundamentally a brilliant polemical journalist, not a scholar\\" is  uncalled for and irrelevant. I'm glad Hall got his academic tetchiness out of the way early and didn't bring it up again, because being subjected to such jibes and digs over the course of the 1000 pages of this book would have been unpleasant. And Hall doesn't need to resort to that anyway.<br />This book is a detailed, well researched exploration of the unique nature of the city as \\"a crucible of creativity\\". The first section of the book looks at artistic creativity - the most recognizable type of Golden Age and most closely associated with the foundation cities of Western civilization - Athens, Vienna, Florence, Paris, London and Berlin. Other themes are innovation and its technological and economic manifestation in urban settings. Here we visit Manchester, Glasgow, Detroit, San Francisco (more accurately Palo Alto and \\"Silicon Valley\\") and Tokyo. Hall then looks at two cities - Memphis and Los Angeles that he saysoffer a mix of artistic, technological, and economic exuberance. He is referring to the music and film industries. In his final section he acknowledges the emergence of regional urban areas and global cities and while recognizing the challenges they pose, he is not daunted and remains optimistic about the future of urban life. His coming Golden Age of a new urban order faces three challenges. That of transport technology and sustainable urbanism, an unequal urban world (the megacities of the Third World) and the threats to economic, family, and civic life.<br />If persons with interest in any aspect of urbanism don't find some mention of their pet subject in this vast sweep of urban life over the last two millennia, it's simply because they haven't waded through. And that's the only caveat about Hall's work. In the best traditions of old English learning this book is dense and it's not written in the snappiest of prose either. Cities are a testament to the slow processes of humanity. You'll have to rely on one of those tendencies - patience - when working your way through this book. In the end it's well worth it.	2002-04-01
US	50452306	R2LIJJCTFHMT8J	0679733426	420708764	At the Hand of Man: Peril and Hope for Africa's Wildlife	Books	2	7	12	N	N	On target for support of culling and trophy hunting...	...off target scientifically and economically. Raymond Bonner, a well respected investigative journalist lived in Kenya for a few years in the early 1990's and he uncovered something. He says that much of the tourism revenue derived from safaris and visits to the big game parks such as Masaai Mara, Tsavo, Amboseli, Serengeti, Kruger, and Etosha was not benefiting the locals in the immediate areas. Further he came to see the dichotomy between how most Westerners view wildlife and how Africans do. Our view is colored by the romantic writings of Dinesen and Markham, and the adventurous hunting life enjoyed by Hemingway. Africans on the other hand see wildlife either as food or something to run away from. He's spot on with the reaction of a typical Kenyan toto who has been taught very early in life that \\"elephants are bad\\" because \\"they kill me.\\" One star to Mr Bonner for his accurate assessment of the inadequacies of tourism development plans and programs for the environmental education of children in Kenya, Zimbabwe, and South Africa. The book gets another star for its exposure of the cultural biases and narrow self-interest that oftentimes politicizes organizations such as the WWF - the world's largest conservation agency - the World Wide Fund for Nature (formerly the World Wildlife Fund). However Mr Bonner runs out of stars and a persuasive argument when he proposes that it is AT THE HAND OF MAN (read Western white man and his do-good conservation ethics) that there is the greatest threat for the future of Africa's wildlife.<br />Mr Bonner is strongly opposed to the ban on ivory and he supports culling of elephant herds. Although he is eloquent in saying that he \\"can't understand\\" how someone would wish to hunt elephants or other big game, it is obvious from his arguments that he doesn't understand the close connection between culling and trophy hunting. I intend to deal with the book on it's scientific and economic arguments alone, and stay away from polarizing political ideology that sees everything as either cultural or science warfare. (I'm actually quite surprised that this book has not featured more in the debates as it is well written and Bonner certainly isn't shy in offering his opinion). Recent scientific work on the complexity of elephant social life and family structure, particularly the dominant role played by the matriarch, tends to undermine the scientific value of culling. Studies have shown that in times when overpopulation causes degradation of the environment (the main reason for culling) the matriarch utilizes a natural population-regulating system. She simply leads a group of female elephants away from the males in the herd to their eventual demise. Also man-made contraceptives that last for up to a year are now proving somewhat successful. On the economic front, wheras it's true that tourism revenues have not made much contribution due to corruption, mismanagement, or use for things other than community development, this is a double-edged sword argument. There is sufficient evidence to show that the revenues earned from the sale of culled elephant ivory (prior to the international ban) was not going to locals either. Further, when the ban was temporarily lifted in 1997, there was a concomitant increase in poaching. As for the income earned where trophy hunting is allowed as part of a culling process as in South Africa; let's just say \\"show me the money\\"! is probably the best analysis. Most of the money does not go to fees paid in Africa but in fact never even leaves the US. The majority is paid to the big US game hunting outfits that equip and organize the African hunting trips.<br />This book is a genuine attempt by a Westerner, who having lived in Africa, comes to some understanding of the gap between what we think about the continent and what it's really like and seeks to put his insights into words. It's also more than that. It is the work of a bright investigative journalist using his skills to expose some of the complexities of wildlife management and the  biases that attend it. Unfortunately the book didn't stop there, it's still more. It's political. Bonner himself makes it so. \\"It was natural for me to take up this cause. I am a liberal, and a former public interest lawyer; I was a vegetarian for a period in the seventies and still eat very little meat, and I have been opposed to commercial whaling and cutting down forests.\\" Oops there it is! Let the wars begin! and Bonner will desevedly get hit by both sides. Liberals will strike first slamming Bonner for saying that vegetarianism is a qualifying criteria for Liberalism! Conservatives will also go on the attack, when after reading the book, they realize that his real sympathies lie with them, and he makes a hash out of arguments they could defend. Everybody, fire away!ose some of the complexities of wildlife management and the  biases that attend it. Unfortunately the book didn't stop there, it's still more. It's political. Bonner himself makes it so. \\"It was natural for me to take up this cause. I am a liberal, and a former public interest lawyer; I was a vegetarian for a period in the seventies and still eat very little meat, and I have been opposed to commercial whaling and cutting down forests.\\" Oops there it is! Let the wars begin! and Bonner will desevedly get hit by both sides. Liberals will strike first slamming Bonner for saying that vegetarianism is a qualifying criteria for Liberalism! Conservatives will also go on the attack, when after reading the book, they realize that his real sympathies lie with them, and he makes a hash out of arguments they could defend. Everybody, fire away!	2002-03-31
US	50452306	R3O7WCG8S5Z15M	080143954X	192852484	Extinct Birds	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Not on any birders life list	The two most basic and obvious descriptions of this book only highlights the poignancy of the subject of EXTINCT BIRDS. To say that the book is large (nearly 400 pages) implies that there are a lot of birds that are no longer with us. Telling you it's beautifully illustrated (which it is, with nearly every page including a painting, photograph, or sketch, many in full color) only shows that we've lost a wide variety of colorful species. The book is also thoroughly researched and well organized with a logical arrangement of the birds in their main groupings.<br />In the introduction Fuller mentions Jerdon's Courser and the Four-colored flowerpecker, two species previously thought extinct (the flowerpecker since 1900). Both have since been rediscovered. This illustrates one of the dramatic changes in recent times with regard to the whole subject of extinction. Rediscovery is news and extinction is big business. It long ago shrugged off it's dry and dusty, stuffed-exhibits-in-a-museum image, and is now firmly embedded in popular culture and is the subject of bestsellers and box-office hits. This is especially true for birds and dinosaurs. Fuller says as much and gives a nod to the huge role JURASSIC PARK played in this. The story of the Coelacanth is even more remarkable than the rediscovery, after 100 years, of a small flowerpecking bird in a stand of forests on the Phillipine island of Cebu. Nonetheless we'll probably have a long wait before we see a prehistoric fish starring in a movie. The Coelacanth does have its own book though. Its rediscovery in 1938 after being gone for 400 million years is the subject of Samantha Weinberg's A FISH CAUGHT IN TIME. Fuller acknowledges another recent trend which is heightening interest in extinction - the recent scientific work using DNA technology - and its hint that we may be able to restore species in the not too distant future.<br />As part of useful background information Fuller talks about the special role of islands in the extinction process. There is much that is known about the peculiar sensitivity of these ecosystems. There is a correlation between islands and high rates of extinct, and threatened but still extant, bird species. Fuller makes referrence to David Quammen's appropriately titled book THE SONG OF THE DODO which explores the whole subject of island biogeography. Small fragile ecosystems, loss of habitat (especially forest cover), the impact of agriculture and other man-made environments, introduced species and competition; all of these are subjects scientists are very familiar with and whose impact on bird extinction has been studied.<br />Where the recent popular interest in extinction becomes slightly problematic for professionals is that we all want to know what's happening, but quantifying bird extinctions and arriving at loss rates still remains an inexact science. This book covers the 85 bird species that are known to have gone extinct since 1600. There is immediately a problem with this simple statement. \\"Known\\" is very subjective and the starting year of 1600 is artificial. Fuller explains: \\"The year 1600 heralds a period during which relatively reliable records have accumulated; before this time the records are sparse and, where they do exist, it is usually difficult to know what to make of them.\\" As for the difficulty of statistical methods in estimating loss rates, consider the following. For ease of calculation use the number of species lost as 80 and years at 400 (1600 to 2000). This works out to 5, which a dishonest person could report as saying that on average over the last 400 years we have been losing bird species at the rate of 5 per year! ... That works out to 2000 extinct species but we know that the correct figure is 85, so it simply means that for many years there were no extinctions. What we do know is that the rate of extinction in recent years has been increasing. The most commonly accepted bird extinction rate today is Colombia University's Center for Environmental Research and Conservations' figure of 0.01 percent or one species per year. This little exercise illustrates the statistical chicanery employed by THE SKEPTICAL ENVIRONMENTALIST with his estimate of the overall extinction rate at \\"0.7 percent over the next 50 years\\". This works out to 0.014 percent which is barely higher than the most conservative estimate for bird extinctions alone!<br />Statistics aside, and regardless of whether you accept that there will be an estimated 1200 more bird species extinct in the next 100 years there are a couple of things that are certain. The next edition of this book will be as beautiful as this one and depending on how soon it's published it will be bigger. How much larger and by how many species remians the sad unknown.	2002-03-29
US	50452306	R124B5HJ57PY38	0393321835	877440502	Something New Under the Sun: An Environmental History of the Twentieth-Century World (The Global Century Series)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Of rats, sharks, and history	Most science writing nowadays must be interdisciplinary; able to use empirical evidence and relevant concepts, theories, and conclusions from vastly different fields of enquiry. Would you expect the same of a history book? Although this book's publishing category is science/environment it really should be history. The author says as much. This is \\"a history of - and for - environmentally tumultuous times\\". And that history is broad. From the ancient days when the book of Ecclesiastes was written to our modern era of Nobel Prize winning physicists, there has been a remarkable common conception of our planet as immutable and infinite. In contrast to the biblical gentleman who said there was nothing new under the sun, or physicist Robert Millikan who saw Earth's vastness as effectively shielding it from real harm from humanity, J R McNeill sees SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN and it's simply that \\"the place of humankind within the natural world is not what it was.\\" <br />Can we link man's history with that of the natural or biological world? Many have tried from both sides of the equation. Great historians and thinkers like Kant, Marx and Pierre Tielhard de Chardin have seen a direction and inevitability about history while Berlin and Popper spoke eloquently against historicism.  This book doesn't go there nor does it tackle the attempt by  some evolutionary biologists to explain all we see in life as determined at the genetic level. Great scientists from Einstein forward have sought some unifying or final theory and it's still going on. Today sociobiologists, quantum physicists and game theorists say they have the answers. <br />What McNeill contributes to this is his view that \\"in recent millennia, cultural evolution has shaped human affairs more than biological evolution has. Societies...unconsciously pursue survival strategies of adaptability or of supreme adaptation.\\" The entire book is a brilliant exposition on this point. How mankind, like the rat, was a creature that used adaptability to  select for fitness for exploitation of new niches created when short term environmental shocks killed off competition. I say \\"was\\" because McNeill convincingly argues that in the 20th century we have tended more towards the strategy of supreme adaptation. Best typified by the shark this is fine-tuned specialization that \\"is rewarded by continuous success only so long as governing conditions stay the same.\\" The stability required for continued success in this system is based on \\"stable climate, cheap energy and water, and rapid population and economic growth\\". Through chapters such as \\"The Atmosphere: Urban History\\", \\"The Hydrosphere: Depletions, Dams and Diversions\\", \\"More People, Bigger Cities\\" and \\"Fuels, Tools and Economics\\" he uses tables and data and balanced and thoughtful reasoning to show that these conditions are neither static nor stable, and he effectively makes his pont. His point is not that of a Cassandra warning of an impending environmental apocalypse but something more measured. \\"We might then consciously choose a world that would require only irksome adaptations on our part and avoid traumatic ones.\\" Couched in these terms his message is much more likely to be read, thought about, and most importantly acted upon. If nothing else McNeill would encourage us to act as the very process itself will \\"distinguish us from rats and sharks.\\"	2002-03-29
US	50452306	RL8IU6JHVXWC1	0679758941	861058090	Nonzero: The Logic of Human Destiny	Books	5	10	10	N	N	"Why is this one book, instead of two?"	Three-quarters of the way through his book Wright poses that question himself, and it's not because he's confused about his own book (although some critics have said just that, and worse). It's a two part question. \\"Aren't organic evolution and human history sufficiently different to demand seperate treatment?\\" How you answer that question will determine whether or not you'll enjoy this book. This question is asked on p243. I'd suggest you begin there, read a little and then decide. If your answer to Wright is an unqualified \\"yes\\", you definitely won't enjoy the book and you'll probably find yourself in the \\"one star review\\" category. You'll have plenty of good company though as there are a few historians and evolutionary biologists who have found much here to criticize. Since this is a \\"five star\\" review I obviously feel differently. Wright goes on. \\"Early on, I claimed that the answer is no - that the two processes naturally constitute a single story.\\" This is because the two processes share the same mechanisms, energy, and direction. The energy is the \\"interplay between zero-sum and non-zero-sum forces.\\" Here we have the crux of his argument. In contrast to zero-sum situations where one's gain is another's loss, the NONZERO sum situation isn't quite so binary. In fact \\"interests overlap entirely\\" and cooperation is the preferred mode of operation. This results in increasing complexity (not necessarily progress) for both cultural and biological evolution and implies that history has a direction and human life has a purpose.<br />Wright traces this idea throughout history from stone age to our age and shows the concept at work in the development of agriculture, language, technology, even war, and in our use of information, money, and trade. There is direction and Wright sees \\"an arrow beginning tens of thousands years ago and continuing to the present. And looking ahead, you see where it is pointing.\\" That's just man's history or cultural evolution. Remember this is one book not two so we should not expect Wright to shy away from seeking some pattern, direction, or purpose to human life. Most (but not all) biologists agree that natural selection occurs at the level of the individual and thus gives us a basic definition of what an organism is. Ecosytems, cultures, or societies are therefore not organisms. Wright accepts that but merely as the starting point for departure on some other journeys through the nature of awareness, sentience, designs and patterns in life, purpose and direction in evolution, information networks, global consciousness, superorganisms and God.<br />This is a vastly ambitious book as is any that seeks the \\"big picture.\\" Any author that is brave (some may say arrogant) enough to try for the answers, I think, deserves a read. So is any book that covers works by Popper, Berlin, Kant, Mill, Marx, Tielhard de Chardin, Toynbee, Richard Dawkins, Jared Diamond, Stephen Jay Gould and E.O.Wilson. Certainly there's a lot here that is contentious and I doubt there's anybody, including Wright, who would say he's right on everything. It nevertheless is a well researched, carefully reasoned, extemely well written and thoroughly enjoyable book.       <br />....	2002-03-28
US	50452306	R27MPAMOVP7OOY	0520207432	474980498	The Myth of Continents: A Critique of Metageography	Books	5	9	9	N	N	&quot;East is East and West is West...	...and never the twain shall meet.&quot; Kipling was wrong about that. This fascinating book shows how culture and world-view influenced not just Kipling and others of the past, but continues to do so with us today. Our maps, both mental and otherwise, are largely shaped by our own realities. Indeed the authors argue we are all unwitting believers in THE MYTH OF CONTINENTS. The metageography that this book critiques is defined as &quot;the set of spatial structures through which people order their knowledge of the world.&quot; Such structures are arbitrary, but it's not just continents. It extends to world regions, culture areas, zones, and even civilizations. Also any depiction in atlases, on globes, in texts, and on political maps. It's all extremely subjective. <br />One of the strengths of this book is how it shows these artificial views emerging, changing, and adjusting to the dynamism and power of cultures. The concept of the continent of Europe is directly connected to the power of that region. Why else, the authors ask, should India be a sub-continent and China only a part of Asia? &quot;In physical, cultural and historical diversity, China and India are comparable to the entire European landmass, not to a single European country.&quot; <br />The book traces the origins of the continental system from Herodotus through Ptolemy, the Romans, Medieval Europe to the Age of Discovery and beyond. The whole idea of what defined a continent (large landmass seperated by water) was always very fungible. The authors say that as late as 1599 &quot;any reasonable large body of land or even island group might be deemed a continent&quot;. They give the example of a geographer referring to the West Indies as a &quot;large and fruitful continent&quot;. The West Indies themselves are a perfect example of perception dictating form. We know that the &quot;Indies&quot; part came about because Columbus thought he had arrived in the East. The metageographies of West and East then are concepts that, like continents, are open to criticism. So too are the New and Old worlds, the First and Third Worlds (was there ever a Second World?) The same vagueness surrounds the North and the South, the Occident and Orient, Far East, Middle East, South Asia and the Pacific Rim.<br />In offering their own system for organizing human space the authors replace continents with &quot;world regions&quot;. Arnold Toynbee and more recently Samuel Huntinton's system of using civilizations as the organizing principle gets a nod from the authors. In the classification they use, Europe is now &quot;Western Eurasia&quot;, &quot;African-America&quot; includes not just the West Indies but the entire Caribbean and North-Eastern Brazil. North America remains and Ibero-America emerges.<br />Obviously geographers will thoroughly enjoy this book but it has a much broader appeal. Wherever we are in the world we use some of the terms above to describe our place. If nothing else this book will make us all a little more aware of how we define ourselves and others.	2002-03-27
US	50452306	R1MJJET2086KMN	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Will anything change?	Samantha Power would perfectly understand why, after reading her book, it's quite likely that we will come away with a pessimistic and somewhat fatalistic view. The thrust of her book's argument is that our government and leaders, through ignorance, denial, policy vacuum, or a lack of political will, have stood idly by and allowed crimes against humanity to take place. As we read the descriptions of the massacres she uses to make her point, we may believe that as citizens we are in a better position to express moral outrage. Power cuts right through this view and disabuses us of any right to stand on the moral high ground. In her recent interview about the book in \\"The Atlantic\\" she said \\"isolationism is not just ideological in this country, it is the way people live their lives. [We] live lives isolated from people abroad.\\" <br />There are some exceptions of course and her book chronicles the stories of some of these advocates for the people or \\"screamers\\" as she calls them. Official inaction and paralysis spans the decades. The book goes back as far as 1915 when the Turks butchered about 1 million Armenians. The Holocaust comes next and then the Khmer Rouge and Cambodia, followed by Iraq's massacre of the Kurds, Rwanda, and Bosnia. There is a wealth of research involved based on recently declassified materials and numerous interviews with eyewitnesses and survivors. She is relentless with her facts and as decades passed and genocides continued and administration after administration protested that they didn't know, Power's steady spotlight on evidence to the contrary makes a lie out of so much of what we've been told publicly. There are many reasons; from the purely political \\"national interests\\" arguments, to the more subtle explanations that affected individual policy makers. For instance, when do you enter a conflict if it's your view that it's A PROBLEM FROM HELL? Warren Christopher supposedly made this comment about Bosnia. If you apply even the most basic management principles for resolving an issue - that of first \\"owning\\" the problem - it seems that many of our policy makers failed the grade. Power makes it clear that a huge amount of denial exists. <br />Power offers prescriptions for policy change and recommendations for preventing genocides and they don't all involve military action. She is also very much aware of how September 11th has changed US foreign policy priorities. Nevertheless we have both the moral authority and the neccessary resources to prevent genocides and Power says that \\"the one lesson from the last half century is that if it's not the U.S.'s problem, it's nobody's problem.\\" This book is a compelling argument for the truth of that statement but it's less than optimistic tone still leaves us  wondering, will anything change?	2002-03-26
US	50452306	R15YF33MX35R2W	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Great stories, and let's leave it at that	Right up front Naipaul says \\"this book is about people. It's not a book of opinion. It's a book of stories.\\" These are stories about people in four Islamic countries (Indonesia, Iran, Pakistan and Malaysia) that simply say: to live a life BEYOND BELIEF in the Third World means maintaining one's hopes and dreams against the daily grind of disillusionment and poverty. This disheartening experience is central to Naipaul's writing. There is always the theme of a \\"universal civilization\\" with center and periphery and the idea of the pursuit of happiness is at its center. In both his fiction and travel writing he simply believes that this is an \\"immense human idea\\" and it colors all he sees and writes about. Another theme closely linked to this is Naipaul's  search for how we fill the psychological and spiritual center. Take the example of the young Iranian student who he describes as someone who \\"couldn't step outside himself to consider his life and motives.\\" The same spiritual quest can be seen in the lifestories of a Malaysian playwright and a Javanese poet. The playwright's story also involves the man's father and his unfinished house. Again we are dealing with Naipauls' interests. It is no coincidence that the persons Naipaul is drawn to are writers like himself or men who worked out the center and periphery struggle of father and son. Nor is a house insignificant in the context of what it means to possess a piece of ones own sacred ground. <br />This book is supposedly hostile to Islam and Salman Rushdie once accused Naipaul of being a Hindu nationalist. Vituperation was stepped up a notch when Edward Said called Naipaul \\"an intellectual catastrophe of the first order\\" and said he was a \\"ghost\\". But why stop there. Naipaul has written many books with African, West Indian, Latin American, and Indian settings and some unhappy readers have called him a neocolonialist, imperialist, \\"brown sahib\\" or \\"hater of negroes\\". The truth is Islamic criticism of this book is no different than any other overly sensitive reaction. It is equally as misplaced and more importantly, misses the point of Naipaul's writing entirely. <br />Naipaul writes about the human condition and the struggle that is life. If we see too much of our own disillusionment and disappointment in what we read that is no fault of the writer. And lest you think he writes from an arms length away and cares nothing for his subjects, or is himself incapable of emotion, nothing could be further than the truth about his work. In talking about the same Javanese poet Naipaul says he now has \\"a clear knowledge - almost as to something about myself - of the pain Linus lived with, family pain, pain as a writer, pain for all the things of Java and his village which he saw being washed away.\\" Hostile to Islam? I don't think so. Just great stories  from an incomparable writer, that's all.	2002-03-26
US	50452306	RQANAJHDFUGUR	0399147918	110761810	Paradise Screwed	Books	5	14	18	N	N	What Michael Moore is to the nation, Hiaasen is to Florida	Another collection of \\"baseball-bat-to-the-forehead\\" columns in a similar writing style as Moore. Both men use biting satire and their wicked wit to tell you what they think, and are unafraid in doing so. Hiaasen is even more impressive I think because his substantive job is still journalism and yet he can find humor in real people and events as easily as in fiction. <br />These columns are a selection from over the last 20 years of events in South Florida. You don't have to go back any further than 2 years to Elian Gonzalez and the 2000 presidential election to know that there's enough grist-for-the-mill here to fill much more than one book on these two topics alone. Nevertheless Hiaasen reins himself in and spreads his verbal darts around. Topics covered include \\"Mayor loco\\", the soon-to-be-gone Marlins, Chads (not a person, those bits of paper, remember?) Dolphins (both the team and the ones that frequently drown offshore), Race Riots, a con artist doctor and a pet-hating extortionist. That's the more exotic stuff. Then there's the normal South Florida fare of crooked politicians, stupid state officials, assorted mobsters and mafia, drugs, guns, and general mayhem and madness. As Hiaasen said in a recent interview \\"all the paths of slime and disreputability seem to lead here.\\"<br />The man is a Florida treasure and for those of us who live through what he writes about his humor is a saving grace. Very few of us can express it the way he does so he is our voice of reason saying yes, it's PARADISE SCREWED allright, but we're still alive we can laugh about it.	2002-03-25
US	50452306	R2860EW5I0VF9N	0805067728	412942228	Terrible Lizard: The First Dinosaur Hunters and the Birth of a New Science	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Bitter bones	Deborah Cadbury does the burgeoning genre of popular science proud with this book. It has all the necessary elements. A human interest story with heroes and villians, an interesting historical setting and a good scientific foundation. The history and science revolves around the gigantic fossilized bones that were being discovered throughout southern England in the early 19th century. Paleontology and Geology were just beginning as sciences. Evolution was a concept but not yet a theory as this was pre-Darwin's ORIGIN OF SPECIES. Indeed in 1812 when an uneducated and simple villager named Mary Anning found a gigantic skeleton on a beach under the Dorset cliffs, there was nothing else to call it but a monster. The word &quot;dinosaur&quot; didn't exist. It was coined in 1842 by Richard Owen, one of the principal characters in this story. <br />Mary's discovery started the great quest to identify, categorize, name and date these bones. We meet Gideon Mantell, the poor son of a shoemaker who by dint of hard work and education became a country doctor and a member of the scientific community. He is the sympathetic character this story revolves around and the author wants us to embrace him. Mantell was one of THE DINOSAUR HUNTERS which is in fact the more appropriate title used for this book's edition in Britain. Mantell was typical of these amateur paleontologists who were combing southern England in the hopes of making some great discovery. It's true that only some were eccentric but it's also fair to say they all shared an obsession for bones. Mantell filled his home with fossils, developing one of the finest private collections in England. His devotion to the world of dead creatures came at a cost. It drained all the life out of his marriage and his wife left him in 1839. Mantell did at least have some success, discovering the skeleton of what would later be named the Iguanadon. That's about the only success he had though and his life story as told here is one of disappointment and bitterness with a sad ending. <br />If Mantell is the sympathetic character then the opposite emotional responses should be directed towards Richard Owen. Cadbury paints a very unflattering portrait of the man (Sir Richard eventually) who founded the Natural History Museum, invented &quot;Dinosauria&quot;, and was consulted by royalty, prime ministers, and academia on all things fossilized. The author says he was &quot;instinctively predatory&quot; and if Cadbury rather than her publishers chose the title for the book, then it's very appropriate as it's quite clear from her writing who she sees as the TERRIBLE LIZARD.<br />Mantell is reminiscent of William &quot;Strata&quot; Smith in THE MAP THAT CHANGED THE WORLD. The same disdain as shown by the scientific elite and similar financial difficulties. Smith's story however had an ultimately redeeming end. Not so here. Mantell had to sell his fossil collection to the Natural History Museum and following a carriage accident which badly damaged his spine and left him with severe backaches he declined rapidly. He died from an ovedose of the opiates that he took to relieve the pain. Owen's success had been at the direct expense of Mantell as he had been quite willing to claim Mantell's work as his own. From his well connected position within the scientific community Owen was very effective in preventing recognition for others and garnering it for himself. A bit of poetic justice arrived by way of Thomas Huxley who discredited some of Owen's work (specifically his view  on the differences between human and ape brains). In doing so Huxley did in large measure what Owen had done to Mantell. Owen had also argued that Dinosaurs were proof against evolution. He reasoned that since evolution said life progressed it was impossible then that ancient and extinct creatures should be more splendid than those living today. Since fossils proved that dinosaurs were in fact many times more magnificent that the reptiles Owen saw around him, then evolution must be wrong he said. If Huxley embarrassed him then Darwin's stunning and well reasoned theory of evolution published in 1859 pretty much put paid to Owen's arguments. He outlived Darwin but only to his chagrin as he finally accepted the reality of Darwinism and the sting of being bettered scientifically.	2002-03-24
US	50452306	R1DPVWOS1J0YLP	0465036317	34652609	Uncommon Grounds : The History of Coffee and How It Transformed Our World	Books	5	123	127	N	N	Not a "caffe latte" history	If you are looking for something light that offers some tips for tasters or a cultural history on some of the exotic places that coffee is grown, or even an appropriate book for your coffee table, I suggest you look elsewhere. This book is none of that. This book is pretty narrow in focus and limits itself to discussions on the history of coffee growing and the business end of the industry. Topics covered include trading, marketing and distribution, consumption patterns, the emergence of cafe's and big coffeehouses, and the social, environmental, and political issues in both the producing and consuming nations. As with so many recently published books this one suffers from a pop-culture sounding title which is deliberately eye-catching, but misleading with its grandiose claim. These titles work best with popular science books about arcane subjects that changed the world set in stories about eccentric heroes and villains. I enjoy those books but this is a different book. This serious work is more referrence book than story. Don't get me wrong though. UNCOMMON GROUNDS: THE HISTORY OF COFFEE AND HOW IT TRANSFORMED OUR WORLD is too well written and has enough anecdotes to provide the \\"latte\\" for what could otherwise have been simply a dark and thick text-book. <br />One of the issues that Pendergrast focuses on is the stark social contrasts between where coffee is grown and the markets where it is consumed. As we read on it becomes very apparent that for Pendergrast, researching this book was part moral lesson. He pays special attention to issues of economic justice and makes us see some of coffee's story in this light. He says coffee \\"laborers earn an average of $3 a day. Most live in abject poverty without plumbing, electricity, medical care, or nutritious foods\\". After shipping and processing the product arrives here at market where \\"cosmopolitan consumers routinely pay half a day's Third World wages for a good cup of coffee.\\" Along these same lines Pendergrast talksabout a movement in the speciality coffee sector towards the idea of \\"fair trade\\" coffee which seeks - in the slogan of one of the companies - to offer \\"Not Just A Cup, But A Just Cup\\". Equal Exchange in the US and Max Havelaar Quality Mark coffee in Europe are the best known groups that say  we should consider human rights issues when choosing a brand.<br />Equally as interesting is the topic of \\"bird-friendly coffee\\". Basically it involves a long standing debate over the merits of \\"shade coffee\\" (grown under a canopy of trees and thus bird-friendly) or \\"sun coffee\\" which is grown on open and exposed slopes. As happens with most things, the discussion ends up as a political argument with opponents of the ecological approach labelling it politically correct coffee. Perhaps that's true, or maybe as others have suggested, it's a brilliant marketing strategy for selling speciality coffee. Pendergrast doesn't say what he thinks but his presentation of a few facts gives us a hint. \\"Of the fifty-four million Americans who consider themselves birders, twenty-four million actually travelled in 1991 to observe their avian friends. In the process, they spent $2.5 billion - and who knows how much of that went for strong predawn coffee?\\" <br />Want to know about coffee prices? Prendergast explains. \\"One thing I have learned through my coffee research: One consumer's poison is another's nectar.\\" In other words it's all relative and price is very subjective. \\"Then there's the psychological factor. The rarer the bean the more expensive and desirable. Hence, Hawaiian Kona and Jamaican Blue Mountain command premium prices, even though most coffee experts consider them bland in comparison to Guatemalan Antigua or Kenya AA.\\" Of course price is a function of supply and demand and no discussion of coffee could end without referrence to the US. We are the largest market and the home of the biggest coffeehouses (Starbucks of course). The Finns however beat us cups down when it comes to per capita consumption. <br />I've lived in both Kenya and Jamaica and have had my fair share of their coffee and am a birder myself. The books coverage of those topics was therefore of particular interest to me. Whatever your tastes and interests and whether or not you even drink coffee, there's much to learn and even more to enjoy in this fascinating look at our favorite brew.	2002-03-24
US	50452306	R2A2P5H3GO6L9T	0802117058	41560393	Tobacco: A Cultural History of How an Exotic Plant Seduced Civilization	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable read; smoking jacket is optional	Both early and near the end of TOBACCO: A CULTURAL HISTORY OF HOW AN EXOTIC PLANT SEDUCED CIVILIZATION, the book offers some strong opinions on the \\"evil weed\\". King James I was the first anti-smoking crusader and set a standard for vituperation which nobody can match today. After correctly stating how harmful it is to brain and lungs, he casts it back to the depths whence it came. Gately says the King believed it \\"had a family tie to witchcraft\\" and was \\"the black, stinking fume thereof nearest resembling the horrible Stygian smoke of the pit that is bottomless.\\" In the latter chapters, Gately highlights the modern day demonization of the weed by way of law suits against the tobacco companies and criticisms by health professionals. Gately remains very balanced with his analysis and states that both sides have been guilty of bad science with selective use of statistics. He only gets fired up like old King James (but on tobacco's side) when he discusses the fallacious arguments for a ban on smoking because of second-hand dangers to non-smokers. <br />The majority of the book is a well researched, easy reading, sometimes humorous narrative about this long association between plant and man. Research traces tobacco's origins back some 5,000 years to the Andean highlands where it was used in shamanic rituals by South American natives. Gately's cultural history however is more concerned with the recent story; its conquest of Europe and the world in the last 500 years. When Europeans arrived in the new world they saw native Americans \\"drinking smoke\\" from long cigars and Gately says the first European smokers may have been Rodrigo de Jerez and Luis de Torres who picked up the habit on one of Columbus's voyages. As a smoker himself, Gately has no difficulty in explaining tobacco's charms. He writes about it as \\"a pleasure, a comforter and a friend\\" and for most of our history it seems many of us agreed. The French used it as a medicine and a cosmetic, colonial America usedit in barter, others \\"found the habit strangely compulsive\\" and its use spread. It was not just smoking either. Royals snuffed and snorted, but it was also drunk, chewed, and in Victorian England taken as a type of enema. Among the various other uses are: disenfectant, currency, peace token, appetite suppressant, and the answer for many problems from boredom to the Plague. History is replete with many cruel ironies and tobacco's story is no different. It was once seen as a cure for cancer. <br />Gately tells us that by the early 1600's the Virginia Company was established with the purpose of making a successful commercial venture out of our desire for the plant. Growing tobacco is a labor intensive business and while plant and land was abundant, labor was not. The origins of the African slave trade Gately argues can thus be linked to our fixation with tobacco. Since tobacco is the focus of this book we should not be surprised by the lack of mention of sugar and cotton. However the fact that these two crops were far more important in sustaining the slave trade means that the omission is a minor oversight. Gately shows the role colonization played in spreading both the plant and its habits around the world. He tells us the origins of the word nicotine and delves into all things scientific, economic, and cultural associated with tobacco.<br />The changing public image of smoking makes for fascinating reading. Long gone are the days when it was strictly a man's pastime (and a rich man at that) with \\"so many smoking accessories, including tobacco boxes, knives, tongs and pipes\\" required \\"that a dedicated manservant\\" was needed. The emergence and acceptance of women smokers in the early part of this century can be linked to their changing role in society. Gately shows the powerful impact advertising, Hollywood, and a brilliant manufactured innovation - the cigarette - had in changing societal views about tobacco.         <br />Gately has written a thoroughly enjoyable andvery informative history about tobacco that can be appreciated by all, smokers or  not.	2002-03-23
US	50452306	R3SF6HE23TI4GJ	1400030552	115531022	In a Free State: A Novel	Books	5	21	23	N	N	"My life spoil"	So said the disillusioned and dejected West Indian when confronted with the reality of his ruined life in London. His brother had taken advantage of him, and having denied himself for his brother's sake, the betrayal was all the more bitter. Hate and revenge are now his primary emotions and he shows this with his words \\"tell me who to kill\\", the title of one of this book's five  stories. The stories are principally about the emotional weight carried by strangers in foreign lands (West Indians in England, Indians in the U.S, English in Africa), and the cultural anomie that comes with it.<br />This book which won England's Booker prize in 1971 is comprised of two novellas, the short-story that is the book's title and a prologue and epilogue which are in the narrator's voice and describe impressions from his travel journal. Besides exploring the theme of alienation, the common thread that connects these stories is the search for what it is that causes the destructive impulses that lie deep within us to rise to the surface. <br />In a more recent book, READING AND WRITING, Naipaul in talking about his art said \\"one day, in my almost fixed depression, I began to see what my material might be\\" In homage to his brooding inspiration this book then is an excellent exploration of Naipaul's well known darker themes. What makes us cruel to one another? Why do we fear, hate, and oppress others? The stories are harsh and imaginatively cruel: The irrational beating of a hapless tramp and the whipping of some poor Egyptian children who were scrounging for sandwiches tossed by Italian tourists. <br />Naipaul is genre-bending with his fiction and where others may feel compelled to offer hope and a romantic denouement to their story, this author does not subscribe to such illusions about the human heart. At least not in any obvious way. The positive message is there in the title story, it's just hidden. Bobby and Linda are seeking refuge in the last redoubt of Englishness left in Africa. Like all the other characters in the book they are seperated from their familiar traditions and society. Far from being alienated however they have something within - a sense of self. It gives them wholeness. Here we see the true potential of the human heart to be IN A FREE STATE even when all around us is chaos. As pessimistic a view as this book generally is, I still found it entertaining and because Naipaul offers such a small token of hope, it makes it all the more precious.<br />\\"I think we ought to read only the kind of books that wound and stab us\\" (Franz Kafka)	2002-03-21
US	50452306	R2P8FL65UI1KVP	1561641359	253772118	The Everglades: River of Grass	Books	5	18	18	N	N	"Mother of the Everglades"	That's how most of us in Florida referred to Marjory Stoneman Douglas. Long honored by the state and then by the nation a few years before she died in 1998, she was a living legend in the South Florida environmental movement. Within a few miles of where I live there's a school, a park, a long section of highway and the Biscayne Nature Center, all of which are named after this grand old lady.<br />And grand and old she was. One of the most amazing facts about her life is the way it seems to have paralleled the recent history of the Everglades itself. Consider this. The first real encroachment of the Everglades began in 1890 when settlers started draining the area around the Kissimmee river. This was just 10 years before Douglas was born. When she wrote THE EVERGLADES: RIVER OF GRASS in 1947 she was 57 years old. The book played a huge part in creating public awareness about the vital importance of the area and was the prime impetus for the creation of the Everglades National Park. Douglas was in fact there when Harry Truman officially opened the park in late 1947. She was still around to receive an honor from president Clinton in 1993.  Most incredibly she lived to see the publishing of this - the Fiftieth Anniversary edition of her best known book - dying shortly after at the age of 108! One of the salient points to note about this edition is that it offers an added chapter by another writer titled \\"Coming Together\\" which highlights some of the recent progress being made in reversing the damage done to the Everglades watershed area. Progress which can trace it's origins back decades ago to the constant cajoling and inspiration of one Marjory Stoneman Douglas. Never has the saying \\"Life imitates Nature\\" been any truer.<br />Douglas's original book is in keeping with the times it was written in. A natural history of the Everglades with a heavy emphasis on wildlife and the local culture, written in a simple straightforward style. This \\"just-the-facts\\" approach is usedwhen recounting the early history of the area, giving names and dates of conquerors and explorers. The writing style occasionally feels a bit dry but these moments quickly pass as we get so caught up in reading about history by someone who was themselves a bit of living history.	2002-03-20
US	50452306	R193KVOTQB2C91	0253338344	963444309	The Imperial Mantle: The United States, Decolonization, and the Third	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A thin mantle	The premise of the book is interesting and Newsome asked some important questions such as: Why do we have such poor relationships with so much of the Third World? How is it that a nation forged in an anti-colonial struggle allows itself to become imperialistic? Newsome provides a broad historical overview of the development of our foreign policies which have effectively allowed the U.S. to inherit the IMPERIAL MANTLE given up by the British Empire. <br />The analysis covers the period of greatest imperial retreat, the 19th century and focuses on Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. This is a vast amount of territory to cover and to try do it in a little over 200 pages is asking too much of the book. As such the analysis is a rather thin mantle. The chapters on Africa highlight how foreign policy myopia develops when there is an insistence on seeing everything through Cold War eyeglasses. Unfortunately \\"highlights\\" remains the operative word. After describing the  independence movements in central Africa in the 1960's - most notoriously our involvement in Lumumba's assassination in the Congo - the author leaves us dangling. He asks \\"Was there ever a real Soviet and Cuban threat to U.S. interests in Africa? Was the U.S. manipulation of events in the Congo and Angola in the interest of the United States and the peoples of the region?\\" Again important questions and Newsome is certainly qualified to answer them. To the extent that he is unable to, and has to admit that \\"such questions cannot be fully answered\\", largely due to his book's too thin coverage, the outcome is then a little disappointing.	2002-03-19
US	50452306	RZMIMZQUNJ301	0871137976	71915930	A Gap in Nature: Discovering the World's Extinct Animals	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Sadly beautiful	This is a small book, under 200 pages with just 103 species shown. We all probably know that this is obviously nowhere near a true representation of the extinct animals that comprise what Flannery calls A GAP IN NATURE. What we see here is merely a small selection of some that have gone extinct in the last few hundred years. It's limited to birds, mammals, and reptiles, and only those that the artist had sufficient descriptions to work with. <br />The illustrations are beautiful and a quick browse through may leave you with a disturbing and lasting impression of just what colorful and variety of species has been lost. Flannery's descriptions are informative, if basic. One of the most noticeable features is the high representation of Island species. The Auckland Island merganser, Chatham Islands fernbird, and the Falkland Islands dog are long gone. So are species in Cuba, Guadeloupe, Hawaii, Jamaica, Labrador Island, Martinique, Seychelles, Swan Island, Tahiti, Tonga and Wake Island. Not yet mentioned is Mauritius which is known for one of the more shameful extinction stories - not the blue pigeon, but the Dodo. <br />The high representation of Island extinctions is not a surprise to persons familiar with the subject of biodiversity. Islands have some of the richest ecosystems on the planet. Unfortunately they are also some of the most vulnerable to both man-made and natural shocks.<br />This book is aimed at non-specialists, those taking introductory college level biology, or persons who are just beginning to be aware of what biodiversity is all about. If that's you and you enjoyed these beautiful illustrations but were saddened by the loss, I would encourage you to follow up by reading THE DIVERSITY OF LIFE by E.O. Wilson or David Quammen's book on Island Biogeography appropriately titled THE SONG OF THE DODO	2002-03-17
US	50452306	R1EG7V3NLDLD2H	0802713688	885128653	Diamond: A Journey to the Heart of an Obsession	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A tale of carats, cartels, and &quot;Conflict Diamonds&quot;	There are various different levels of appeal with this book. Persons interested in the hard surface of the science in this business will enjoy reading about mineralogy, how to select excavation sites, and  what constitutes a good &quot;kimberlite pipe&quot; which is the cone-shaped geological feature comprised of diamond bearing strata. Those that find the sparkle of a financial story appealing will be captivated from the first chapter, when Hart describes the bonanza that came the way of three small-time Brazilian miners. They uncovered a 81-carat pink diamond and ended up netting a glittering sum of 2 million. There are stories that have a bit of a rough edge to them and also required a bit of digging into the past. History buffs will approve. Here Hart is talking about the secretive and somewhat clouded history of the DeBeers cartel and it's current attempts to maintain control of 80% of the world's rough diamonds. What other term but &quot;chipping away&quot; could best describe the chapter on Eira Thomas, a young female geologist who discovered a huge cluster of high-grade diamond pipes in the Canadian Actic. This discovery more than anything else has begun to loosen DeBeer's grip on the industry. And finally for those who wish to get down in the trenches there are the descriptions of the &quot;diamond conflicts&quot;.  This is the warfare in Angola and Sierra Leone that is finaced by diamond revenues. Here we see the dirty and bloody side of the story.<br />Characters abound. The founders of DeBeers - Cecil Rhodes, Barney Barnato and Ernest Oppenheimer, the &quot;garimpeiros&quot; or miners of Brazil and Eira Thomas. The journey is around the world, from South Africa, Angola, and Sierra Leone, to Siberia, London, and the Canadian arctic. DIAMOND: A JOURNEY TO THE HEART OF AN OBSESSION is an appropriate title for the contents of this well written and very informative book.	2002-03-17
US	50452306	R36AP15H9HW3VQ	0802137946	255087586	Barrow's Boys: A Stirring Story of Daring, Fortitude, and Outright Lunacy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"Send forth the best ye breed"	That line from a Kipling poem kept coming to mind as I read this book. The 30 major explorations that are chronicled here beginning in 1816 and ending with Leopold McClintock's expedetion of 1857, all however pre-date Kipling. Nevertheless the sentiment remains and it is very clear that BARROW'S BOYS - mostly Royal Navy officers who were \\"mothballed on half-pay\\" and \\"yearned for something\\" [to do] - were both some of the best in 19th century England and were indeed the right people to send forth. As the book's subtitle says they were sufficiently daring and had ample fortitude and there was the odd element of outright lunacy. The latter is best illustrated by Gordon Laing (the madman of Timbuctoo) and the hero John Franklin - better known as the man who ate his boots! Both men are subjects of appropriately titled chapters in this book. <br />The man behind these adventures, \\"the father of exloration\\" as Fleming calls him, was John Barrow, 2nd Secretary to the Admiralty from 1804 to 1845. He was the guiding force for the expeditions; organizing, equiping, and generally administering their every detail. Where the voyages went, who led them, what crew and supplies were needed, these were all Barrow's decisions.  Fleming is quite plain in stating that although \\"Barrow inevitably plays second fiddle to his explorers\\" both in history and in his book, he nevertheless \\"remains the driving force behind his minions' more thrilling exploits.\\"<br />Barrow's character is summed up as one of \\"ambition, intellect and remorseless application.\\" Fleming highlights the many explorations Barrow sent out as part of his personal quests which he vicariously satisfied through his men. In pursuit of the source of the Niger River in West Africa and the Northwest Passage through the Arctic, Barrow spent money and material and sent men with not-quite reckless abandon but with a definite unwillingness to accept defeat. The remorselessness is shown in that failure and loss were simply reasons tosweep aside the unsuccessful leaders (if they returned alive) and equip another expedition to try again.<br />As the book goes on we see the seemier side of Barrow's ambition. The man was \\"determined to make his name somehow.\\" After the   multiple unsuccessful attempts for the Northwest Passage between 1818 and 1827, by John Ross, William Edward Parry, and John Franklin (who died trying), Fleming is at his most critical when he says the following about Barrow: \\"Perhaps no man in the history of exploration has expended so much money and so many lives in pursuit of so desperately pointless a dream.\\"<br />Britain's long tradition of celebrating it's failures and making heroes out of victims dates from before these events right up to Dunkirk in WWII. This is strengthened by the idea of noble sacrifice for God, King, and country. The first man to go down with his ship was undoubtedly an Englishman. This goes a long way to explain why, even after so many failures and stories of pitiless deaths in the deserts of West Africa and the icy North of the Arctic, Barrow was allowed to continue sending men forth. Even more significantly there were always volunteers ready to test their mettle as the best of England's breed.	2002-03-17
US	50452306	R2J2WQQEMW22LB	0786709790	851801133	Bones: Discovering the First Americans	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Skeletons in the closet	Given that Canadian First Peoples have traditions and creation stories that say they come from right here in North America and have been here for Eons; journalist Elaine Dewar wants to know why the tale that passes as history - about arrival by way of the Bering Strait some 11,000 years ago - still remains such a widely held belief. BONES: DISCOVERING THE FIRST AMERICANS is her investigative journey into this subject. <br />Traditional history says that Mongoloid migrants from Siberia came across a land-bridge spanning the Bering Straits at the end of the last Ice Age. They penetrated South from Alaska through an \\"ice-free corridor\\" then East and eventually back North, thus occupying the entire North American continent.<br />A lot of this is now in doubt by scientists but Dewar takes relish in dismantling the whole theory. At 600 plus pages her book has plenty of room to do so. For someone who is a self-admitted non-expert in the field she puts together seemingly well reasoned arguments. I'm a lay person in this area so I can't say if she's correct with her analysis. What I can say is that the book is well written and heavily researched and she puts forward her views in a way that makes it clear that readers like me, not experts, are her intended audience. As such I would expect this book to be criticized by anthropologists, ethnographers, and archaeologists, as usually happens when non specialists dare to tred on scientists turf. Dewar highlights the sloppiness and selective nature of some archaeological research and is able to assert that \\"the practice of archaeology in Ontario has become a disgrace.\\" She's backed up in this by the Province's former director of the London Museum of Archaeology. It's certainly not just in Canada though and it's not just corporate and government influence and interference either.<br />In a couple of chapters dealing with Kennewick Man and one of the primary researchers on his origins - American archaeologist Jim Chatters - we see avery modern menace raise its head. Chatters had been receiving cooperation from Native Americans of the Colville tribe, even with regards to the vexing issue of destruction of ancestral bones for DNA research. Chatters tells Dewar that once he published findings that indicated possible Caucasoid origins for Kennewick Man the tribe suddenly said \\"all studies of human remains are a desecration.\\" Chatters suffered as a result of \\"suppression of anything negative about Native Americans\\" The uniquely 21st century threat to his reasearch \\"was all a result of political correctness.\\"<br />BONES will certainly rattle some professionals and stakeholders in the relevant sciences. To the extent that the author has uncovered skeletons in the closet as it relates to issues such as the issuance of grants, academic rivalries, and selective science, she has does her own area of specialization - that of investigative journalism - quite proud.	2002-03-16
US	50452306	R25MXF6FYJ8005	0609607669	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Mr Kurtz of the south seas	The prototype for Conrad's Mr Kurtz was a Dutchman named Jeronimus Corneliszoon (other books say Cornelisz or Cornelis). The events Dash writes about took place in 1629 more than 250 years before HEART OF DARKNESS was published so obviously there is no direct link. What we do have though is a common thread that connects this real event with the fiction in not only Conrad's novel but Golding's LORD OF THE FLIES as well. That thread is the presence of a malignant darkness - the unspeakable evil that seems to lie within the heart of man - and which is unleashed when civilizing influences are removed.<br />This background is necessary but these are not uniquely my observations. Reviews in the press have made similar connections with Conrad. It's actually very obvious. Corneliszoon's malevolent power, cruelty, and sheer wickedness slaps you in the face and as you read on you find yourself struggling to put it into context. The only frame of referrence is fictional characters like Kurtz and the Beast, and after one particularly horrendous crime (the man poisoned a child for disturbing his sleep!) I found myself checking Dash's sources - I thought some of this must be speculation. Unfortunately the reality remains that with man, truth is sometimes stranger, and far worse, than fiction.<br />So what exactly did Corneliszoon do? Dash begins the story with the Dutch East India Company ship Batavia setting sail for Jakarta, Indonesia. Both the company and the ship got their names from what 17th century Jakarta and Indonesia were once known as - Batavia and the Dutch East Indies respectively. The ship never made it. On the morning of June 4th, 1629 it struck a reef in the Houtman Abrolhos Archipelago (Sailor, beware! in Portuguese), less than 50 miles offshore Western Australia. If the ship had not wrecked it would probably have suffered a mutiny. Dash retells the story of the voyage leading up to this point and it is clear that the Skipper - Arien Jacobsz - and Corneliszoon had plans in place to toss the passengers overboard, seize the treasure in the hold, and then commence a life of piracy. As with all incredible dramas however whenever it seems that nothing more can happen, the story is usually just beginning. So it is here. The horrible incident of a mutiny at sea avoided only led to a greater tragedy ashore.<br />Dash relies heavily on journals and other source books such as VOYAGE TO DISASTER in recreating the events. The Batavia had set sail with over 300 onboard. Since it was a company ship, a merchant - Francisco Pelsaert - not a sailor (Jacobsz) was in command. This rivalry and the fact that both men detested each other was the fertile ground for the mutiny. Once shipwrecked though the men put aside their differences to tackle the greater problem. There were now hundreds of castaways on uninhabited, waterless, and shelterless islands with only two small boats available. The ships water and food was brought ashore and then Pelsaert, Jacobsz, most of the officers, and about 40 others set sail sail for Java in the small boats. They left the rest under the putative care of the remaining senior company man - Corneliszoon. Care quickly became carnage. Dash tells us that the island the officers set sail from, abandoning the rest to their fate, is to this day appropriately known as Traitors Island.<br />As Dash describes him, Corneliszoon had a checkered background. He was a charmer and an apothecary or pharmacist by training. He was also a follower of a cultish philosophy that mixed Paganism and Satanism. He believed in free-love, the communal sharing of women, and a universe in which man was incapable of committing sin. With societal constraints removed, the unleashing of this bizarre philosophical world-view was a violent apocalypse. We read that Corneliszoon quickly exerted authority, named himself Captain General, and sent his only possible opposition - a group of soldiers under the command of Weibe Hayes - to another island wherehe hoped they would meet their fate and die of thirst. He then set about exploring his heart of darkness. Dash writes that Corneliszoon had been eyeing a young married female passenger - Lucretia van der Meylen for some time. Now he simply, and literally, took her and made her his concubine whom he jealously guarded from the small group of rabble he now ruled. Other passengers simply became victims of his men's games of boredom or  Corneliszoon's targeted anger. Men, women, and children were butchered by various means - axed, beheaded, strangled or drowned.<br />When Pelsaert returned with a rescue ship some three months later over half (125) of those left behind had been slaughtered. The only appropriate name that could be found for this blood-soaked island was BATAVIA'S GRAVEYARD. As horrible as the events were this book's retelling of them is not gratuitously bloody. The book ends with a suitable denouement for Corneliszoon and his men. Dash has written a gripping an unforgetable account of an almost unbelievable event.	2002-03-16
US	50452306	R3R6RQO3IKQMH6	0805055754	962995770	Resource Wars: The New Landscape of Global Conflict	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Book's message drowned out by recent events	And it's a pity because Klare is on the right track with his analysis. Very early in the book he puts the issue into context. In a time of globalization with more and more countries industrializing, there is a concomitant increased demand for finite resources, which is exacerbated by growing populations.<br />To the extent that these resources are in unstable regions of the world, and many of them are, it poses a problem. The arguments about a convergence of resources, geography, and national self-interests seems to recall Europe of the last century and their &quot;great game&quot; of Middle Eastern conquests or their &quot;Scramble for Africa.&quot; Some of the objectives are the same - oil and gems - but mostly the resources in question are simply essential to basic national existence - food and water. Klare's analysis is penetrating and supported with tables. His data seems to point to an inevitable conflict between Israel, Jordan, and Syria over the River Jordans' outflow. Similar population pressures impact the Nile, and Egypt's relations with its neighbors. <br />In contrast to the plausible and much more likely scenarios as portrayed here, shallow arguments such as Samuel Huntington's CLASH OF CIVILIZATIONS are enjoying post September 11th renewed sales. Huntington has seemingly identified the problem, but many persons recognize his analysis as superficial and too generalized and his clash was never originally about terrorism. More to the point is the type of collapsed-state, money-laundering financed  type of conflicts involving diamonds which Klare identifies as taking place in Sierra Leone and Angola. Here we have an intersection of Western corporate interests, strategic resources  and local political considerations. These &quot;conflict diamonds&quot; are a topic of broad discussion in Matthew Hart's recent DIAMOND: A JOURNEY INTO THE HEART OF AN OBSESSION. Here Klare sees them as illustrative of the type of resource over which future wars will be fought.In Klare's view they are more likely to live up to their other name - &quot;blood diamonds&quot;. <br />RESOURCE WARS is a wide ranging, carefully argued, and very plausible portrait of where future battles will be, and what they will be about.	2002-03-16
US	50452306	R3JGG2O2C4LVQB	067973337X	311308958	The Beak of the Finch: A Story of Evolution in Our Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Right under your beak	&quot;Evolution in action&quot; takes place day in and day out and has been measured and documented as part of a long running study of the 13 species of Darwin finches that are to be found on the Galapagos Islands. It's ironic that the behaviour of these eponymous finches would in fact contradict the great scientist himself. Darwin believed that evolution was a slow, linear, process that took place over extremely long periods of time. Weiner disagrees, and by looking at the study Rosemary and Peter Grant have been conducting with Darwin's finches since 1973, he is able to say that natural selections' &quot;action is neither rare nor slow. It leads to evolution daily and hourly, all around us, and we can watch.&quot; He goes on to say &quot;the closer you look at life, the more rapid and intense the rate of evolutionary change.&quot;<br />You can't get a closer look than the fractional adaptations in THE BEAK OF THE FINCH which are due to environmentally induced changes. Weiner says the Grant's study shows differentiation in beak size in accordance with environmental dictates. Fluctuations such as drought and rainy seasons caused a concomitant change in food source - hard seeds were more plentiful in dry times and tiny, thinner, seeds emerged in wet periods. A direct correlation with adaptations of the birds beaks was shown to exist. There was a measurable increase in the average beak size in the generation following a drought and a selection bias towards those with slimmer beaks when the tiny seeds were in abundance.<br />The book's title notwithstanding, the Darwin finch study is not the only subject looked at. There are examples of many other everyday-evolution experiments. The most common being those using Drosophilia or Fruit Flies. Also those with other bird species such as sparrows, and speaking of beaks, why go any further that the appropriately named crossbills. Darwin and his own 20 year study in the Galapagos, naturally comes in for frequent mention throughout. In summary this is a well written book, easily managed by non-specialists but also enjoyable for biologists.	2002-03-15
US	50452306	R1LRVMPD195G68	0374278806	535214301	Time Traveler: In Search of Dinosaurs and Other Fossils from Montana to Mongolia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The travels began in childhood	And so does Novacek's book. So right away we know that TIME TRAVELER is not merely a recounting of paleontological studies. They certainly remain as one of the main topics of discussion and the trips to Mongolia, Yemen, and Chile read like adventures rather than scientific expeditions. Interwoven throughout is Novacek's personal story and recollections. There was nothing to indicate that the ten year old who was &quot;more of a Beaver Cleaver type than a young Indiana Jones&quot; would eventually go on to become one of our foremost paleontologists. Novacek recounts a fairly normal, middle-class life, growing up in suburban Los Angeles. His admission that he &quot;liked crawling around in the dirt and mud, turning over rocks, and looking at things through binoculars and microscopes&quot; is however insufficient evidence of a budding scientist. Didn't we all do the same? The difference perhaps is that when the opportunity arose to loose himself in the world of girls and music, Novacek remained enthused with the fossilized world. <br />His enthusiasm is still there and it's captivating. The thrill he gets from discovery, the joy of the outdoors, and the sense of adventure are all reminiscent of our own simple childhood pleasures. Novacek's willingness to share these feelings with us and the writing style which enhances it, makes this a very refreshing reading experience. It's not all fun and enjoyment however. He tells of illness and infections, insect bites and stings, and injury. Deadly places and dangerous people provided their own challenges.<br />Science remains the serious subject connecting all the personal stories and travel adventures. As such Novacek delves into current topics in paleontology such as extinctions and loss of biodiversity, continental drift, and dinosaur and mammalian evolution. In the debate about the origins of birds he comes down firmly on the side of a dinosaurian origin. He adds his own support to the view that dinosaurs are not extinct bysaying &quot;the survivors were of course birds.&quot; On another subject where the majority of recent writers are in agreement (Bjorn Lomborg excepted), Novacek agrees that the loss of biodiversity is a critical issue. Near the end he offers a view that is far from cheerful and refreshing and as such jangles with the joie de vivre which characterized so much of the book. His statement that &quot;paleontology should not be the only biological science in the future - the science of a dead planet&quot; is no doubt informed by a life spent in realities of science.	2002-03-15
US	50452306	R1BVM7DWNM95CM	0674006380	817008767	Facing East from Indian Country: A Native History of Early America	Books	5	85	92	N	N	A different view	This book is by no means the first, nor the most comprehensive analysis of early American history with a Native American perspective. The writing style is straightforward and matter-of-fact and not as dramatic or emotional as the tale as told in BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE. Nevertheless this book is evocative of Dee Brown's book largely because of the same emphasis on Native Americans. Also because it too uses Native American history and traditions as the framework in which to look at North America, from discovery through to the 17th century. <br />One of the things that happens when FACING EAST FROM INDIAN COUNTRY is that you get a different picture of time and events. Traditionally the story of early America is a westward moving one, and one which quickly becomes a story about Europeans and an emerging people called American's.<br />One of the most profound impressions this book will leave with you is a view of the East Coast of North America as dominantly Indian country for more than a hundred years after initial settlement. Even more startling is Richter's well reasoned argument that Eastern North America only ceased to be Indian country when following 1776, the now fully emergent American's &quot;denied the continent's first peoples a place in the nation they were creating.&quot;	2002-03-13
US	50452306	R2UH0NDDPYSLGX	1840462493	618709685	Dawkins Vs. Gould: Survival of the Fittest (Revolutions in Science)	Books	4	129	140	N	N	Forever knocking heads?	As anyone who has read even one book on evolution will know the names most likely to be mentioned are Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould. They are usually referred to not only for their very different views on evolution, but also because in the often contentious and very public debates on these issues, these two gentlemen act as champions for opposing camps. Gould through his books, but also famously in a series of articles and letters in the NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS. Dawkins prefers to limit his books to scientific arguments and rebuttals and reserves his critical comments for his public engagements.<br />With a title DAWKINS vs GOULD the focus is naturally on these two combatants and because both are brilliant thinkers and prolific writers it makes for some stimulating and very interesting reading. The only problem with this book is that by narrowly limiting the discussion to these two men, some readers may remain unaware that they are merely representative of a much larger debate involving most of the scientific community. A debate that covers topics such as human morphology and intelligence, human origins, intelligent design vs creationism. The field of enquiry involved is much wider than evolution and includes genetics, sociobiology, primatology and paleontology to name a few.<br />As it relates to the two specific positions of DAWKINS vs GOULD though this litte book offers a  concise and fairly complete encapsulation of the subject. Dawkins' position is sometimes called reductionist or minimalist in that he sees the gene (a selfish one) as the principal explanatory agent. From it, all we see around us are adaptations. Gould has a more catholic or broader approach and sees exceptions to the rule. Chance and his pet subject of &quot;punctuated equilibrium&quot; are seen as interrupting the smooth progression of linear adaptive evolution. Gould believes that there is a limit to scientific explanations but Dawkins is of the view that testable and provable hypotheses exist as explanations for all seemingly random events. This view is called &quot;Ultra-Darwinism&quot;.<br />Although Gould may have a catholic view in the normative sense of the word with an expansive view, don't for a minute think that this extends in any way to be accomodating towards creationism. Just about the only area where Gould and Dawkins don't knock heads is in their dissmissive view of creationism's equally dismissive view of the reality of evolution.	2002-03-13
US	50452306	R2G6K5AWIZ5EAS	0375507299	630445210	The Snow Geese: A Story of Home	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Birds as healers...	...figuratively of course. The first healing in more real than metaphysical though as we begin with the author convalescing from a debilitating illness. This seemed to be quite a blow to Fiennes because he appears to have been an otherwise healthy young man in his 20's and the illness was a long-term one (we never learn what). He was forced to return to his parents home to recuperate. While confined in-doors he became longingly aware of the freedom of the birds flying around outside. He re-read the story of THE SNOW GOOSE and was inspired by that tale of a lost bird finding it's way back to its correct migratory route.<br />Now healed his horizons expanded. No longer was his vision limited to just getting better, he was ready to spread his wings. &quot;I imagined a quest, a flight: a journey with snow geese to the Arctic&quot;. He quickly changes imagination into action and the rest of THE SNOW GEESE is a retelling of his adventures on his quest: following flocks of Lesser Snow Geese on their 3000 mile northward migration from wintering grounds in South Texas to their nesting area in the Canadian Arctic.<br />Along the way through various stops in different states we see our land and ourselves through the objective eye of a visitor. Fiennes is English. It's an interesting perspective. Equally as interesting are some of the characters that Fiennes meets. Some of these people are scientists, travellers, and birders. Not surprisingly then these are three of the groups that will probably most enjoy reading this book.	2002-03-12
US	50452306	R12VFURAFBR931	0385497709	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;This Fair City&quot;...	...is just one of the many descriptive terms used to describe London. Babylon is another; a less affectionate name to be sure but as Peter Ackroyd shows here it's quite appropriate. Appropriate because it conveys the reality of shifting moods and changing temperaments. Such descriptions are normally associated with individuals but are used here in talking about a city that has such a living presence - &quot;half of stone and half of flesh&quot; that instead of a history, it requires a more personal touch. Thus we have LONDON: THE BIOGRAPHY.<br />This approach means that we look at London from a perspective other that a chronological retelling of its advance over its 2000 year history. An approach from different angles also means that the traditional London attractions such as Buckingham Palace get only brief mention. Sections entitled &quot;Women and Children&quot; &quot;Cockney visionaries&quot; and &quot;Crime and Punishment&quot; provide some idea of the  unusual perspectives. There are chapters on the history of suicide, of light, silence, and drink. We look at the smells, tastes, sounds and people of the city. At 800 plus pages there is certainly room enough for some of the more typical topics you would expect when looking at a city. London's streets, rivers, and it's development - from prehistory to present day - are ably covered. Discussions about commerce and culture are enlightening, especially in the areas London is best known for - finance and theatre.<br />Since it's a biography the writing style needs to be lively, not dry and academic. That it is. It's an absorbing tale that will be of interest to cultural history buffs, geographers, those with an interest in urbanism, and simply anyone who is curious about how cities come about, thrive, and for the great ones like London, emerge with a personality of their own.	2002-03-11
US	50452306	R87Y6RZCHBN8D	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	4	20	23	N	N	A time of Satan triumphant	Very early in the book the author tells us that the 14th century in France was \\"a violent, tormented, bewildered, suffering and disintegrating age, a time, as many thought, of Satan triumphant.\\" This she goes on to illustrate with a detailed description of the ravages \\"the Pest\\" or the Black Death inflicted on mankind between 1348-50, when roughly one third of those in the Eurasian continent died. <br />Tuchman uses the device of following the story of one French noble - Enguerrand de Coucy VII - to explore much more than the Plague's impact on life. Chivalry, village life, the English and French rivalry for Aquitaine, the Papal schism and the various military campaigns that were a constant feature of the times, are all depicted in great detail. The degree of detail is both a strength and weakness of the book. As a strength Tuchman's prodigious research allows her to make deeply insightful comments on the finer details or subtleties of 14th century life. Any illusions we may have had about noble Knights and chivalrous warfare are shattered when we learn that an archer was first described as \\"a coward who dared not come close to his foe\\" and a Knight was a mere \\"worm in his iron cocoon.\\" Her descriptions of village life are unforgetable and help to illustrate her point about the 14th century being extremely violent; in that sense making it A DISTANT MIRROR of our own century. Nevertheless we could have forgiven her if she had left out some details. For instance the village game \\"where players with hands tied behind them competed to kill a cat nailed to a post by battering it to death with their heads, at the risk of cheeks ripped open or eyes scratched out by the frantic animal's claws.\\" If we accept the purpose of such a description - disgusting as it is - as serving to make a point, what is the value of the following minutely detailed inventory? \\"Their homes contained, in the case of one comfortable peasant of Normandy, two featherbeds, one wooden bed, three tables, four skillets, two pots and other cooking utensils, eight sheets, two tablecloths, one towel or napkin, a lantern, two vats for trampling grapes, two barrels and two casks, a cart, a plow, two harrows, two hoes, two scythes, one spade, one sickle, three horse collars, and a pack saddle.\\" Don't forget the two aspirins you'll need after reading one too many pages of similar eye-crossing detail. <br />As a well researched and richly detailed history, it's hard to top A DISTANT MIRROR. It is not an easy reading, flowing, narrative history. The best word I can find for it is dense. I have lost count of the number of times I have started and stopped. Reading it is an educational experience but finishing it is a struggle - somewhat like what living in the 14th century was like I suppose, so maybe that's the point.	2002-03-10
US	50452306	RQ82DSIAPA6WH	0786237643	994630206	Dangerous Beauty: Life and Death in Africa : True Stories from a Safari Guide	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Wariyama pori - Swahili for wild animals...	...and the immediate question this book raises is exactly who are the animals? On one level, and for about two-thirds of it, the book DANGEROUS BEAUTY is a well written, evocative retelling of the author's life as a safari guide in Kenya. His adventures and close encounters with tembo (elephant), chui (leopard) duma (cheetah) and of course simba are par for the course for someone who makes a living from tracking, studying and photographing the wild animals of East Africa's savannahs.<br />However, neither he nor any of the four American tourists that he took on safari to Uganda in March 1999 in search of the Mountain Gorilla could possibly have anticipated this particular wild animal encounter. The only guerillas found were near the border with Congo and were in fact machete-wielding Rwandan Hutu rebels who pounced on them and another group of mostly European tourists and promptly kidnapped 14 of them. They were bundled into the Impenetrable Forest region of Southern Uganda with no idea of what fate lay in store for them.<br />I remember the news stories of the events, the burnt-out vehicles and rest-huts as the first clues that something horribly wrong had happened to them; and the subsequent man-hunt by the Ugandan army. Ross's telling of the story of their capture and the cruel and senseless murder of eight members of the group is harrowing. He led five other survivors to safety. They emeged from this ordeal stunned, numb, and shocked. Ross says his relationship with Africa was changed. \\"The continent has always been the love of my life. Now there is trouble between us.\\"<br />This gruesome lesson about man's inhumanity and capacity for violence far beyond anything in the natural world remained with Ross. Nevertheless he eventually was able to put it into perspective and still carries on with his safari's from Kenya. Here the reality is that the danger from animals rather than man remains both much more likey, and also a much more acceptable risk.	2002-03-07
US	50452306	R24DIO8X8HY9GM	0670872822	356377311	American Colonies (Penguin History of the United States)	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Not a traditional history of colonial North America...	...something much broader, deeper, richer, and ultimately much more satisfying. Histories of colonial North America usually have as their starting points the arrival of the British and end with the American Revolution. Not so here. Taylor's scope is broad enough to include the history of early Native Americans, not just at the time of discovery, but hundreds of years earlier. Even more interestingly this view is not limited to the Native Americans in what would eventually become the US, but looks at those living throughout North America, Central America, and the Caribbean. <br />The richness of this history comes by way of the various cultures    that are included. From the perspective of the East coast of the continent, the story of colonialism involves the British and the Native Americans. When the view extends North to Canada then we include the French. What Taylor does is show the perspective from all angles, and this means that Spanish and Dutch influences were also important, the former especially so in the West. <br />Chapters on the history of different regions rather than single  countries or islands highlights the fact that there were diverse influences which oftentimes overlapped and interacted. There are chapters on the Carolinas, the West Indies, New England, the Pacific Coast and Chesapeake region. Certainly not left out of this analysis is the huge role Africa and its sons and daughters played in the settlement of our continent. <br />This is the first Volume in the Penguin History of the United States. It seems ironic then that the books main argument is that the colonization, settlement and growth of the AMERICAN COLONIES was a process in which the eventual emergence of the US was only a very dim vision on the far horizon. The book is well written, thoroughly researched and deeply insightful. Although it is colonial history, its tale as told here has as much resonance and meaning for us today as it must have had in living it.	2002-03-06
US	50452306	R314AN07OMDBBG	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Imagination sets sail	If you start with a small detail like a ship named Sincerity having a hollow hull to allow the smuggling of contraband, you will get an immediate idea that this is a book that will spare no opportunity to be humorous. On the surface of the seas it sails on ENGLISH PASSENGERS comes across as a hilarious nautical adventure and scientific quest to find the Garden of Eden in Tasmania. This book however can't be so easily defined. Below the surface, at depths, we have the heavy subjects of racism, colonialism, religious faith versus scientific fact and the personal toll associated with these issues. <br />Adding complexity is the authors use of multiple narrative voices to explore the issues. The principal characters are of course the ENGLISH PASSENGERS. They are the Rev. Geoffrey Wilson, Dr Thomas Potter and Timothy Renshaw. Again showing that this book is multi-layered, it is made very obvious to us what Rev. Wilson's and Dr Potter's quests are all about. Juxtaposed against this are the deeper, more personal voyages of two other characters - Peevay (half Tasmanian aborigine, half white) and Captain Illiam Quillian Kewley. <br />The books strength, it seems to me, is its ability to handle the weight of the subjects and the complexity of the various voices with great ease. Humor is the ever present breeze that keeps this one sailing along.	2002-03-04
US	50452306	R3OB4XTW4M5DDX	1859846181	463609053	The Assassination of Lumumba	Books	4	33	36	N	N	The Ghost of Patrice Lumumba	You may recall Adam Hochschild's book of a couple years ago where he intimated that KING LEOPOLD'S GHOST remains a malevolent force guiding the carnage that is taking place in the present day Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Well here's one for the Congolese. Forty years after his assassination Patrice Lumumba remains a haunting presence, forever reminding Belgium of its past misdeeds in Africa. Broader still his death bears testimomy to the fact that so much of what Europe and our government talks about as human rights concerns is self-serving and empty rhetoric.<br />Enough with the anger though as I don't want to go overboard and see it in the stark ideological terms as the author does when he says that what happened in the Congo in 1960 is a \\"staggering example of what the Western ruling classes are capable of when their vital interests are threatened.\\" That is too trite an answer for the circumstances surrounding Lumumba's assassination and way too simple an analysis of the complex situation in the Congo at the time of independence.<br />THE ASSASSINATION OF LUMUMBA looks at a tiny fraction of Congo's history. The book is almost entirely confined to the period from  June 30th, 1960 (when the country became independent from Belgium) to January 17th, 1961, when Lumumba and two of his former ministers of government were executed in the breakaway province of Katanga. During that period the country went through crisis, with  Belgium, France, the US, the USSR and the UN all wanting to have a say. There were at least three substantive leaders of the Congolese: Lumumba as prime minister, Joseph Kasavubu the president, and the usurper Joseph Mobuto (who after all was said and done emerged in 1965 as the dictator Mobuto Sese Seko). Throw into the mix a mutinying army, a secession in Katanga province and rebellions in two other provinces. <br />In investigating these events Belgian sociologist Ludo DeWitte focused his research on recently declassified Belgian documents. His thesis is that the conventional wisdom that Lumumba's death was \\"a Bantu affair\\" - as his countrymen called it - was all wrong. He argues that Belgium was instrumental in setting up, participating in, and covering up Lumumbas death. This book caused such a stir in Belgium that the government opened a parliamentiary enquiry to investigate the facts and the foreign minister promised that if proven true, an official apology would be offered. <br />Subsequent to the publishing of this book the commission released its findings. It said \\"certain members of the Belgian government and other Belgian figures have a moral responsibility in the circumstances which led to the death of Lumumba.\\" Will the man's spirit be able to rest in peace with this? De Witte's specific point that an order for Lumumba's \\"definite elimination\\" came out of the offices of Count d'Aspremont-Lynden's Department of African Affairs, however still remains unproven. The Commission says plainly \\"in no document or witness account could it be found that the Belgian Government, or one of its members, gave the orders to physically eliminate Lumumba.\\" If this means that there is still no resolution to this issue, we can nevertheless rest assured that in the words of Lumumba's last letter to his wife \\"the day will come when history will have its say.\\"<br />\\"Assassination is the extreme form of censorship\\" (George Bernard Shaw)	2002-03-04
US	50452306	R3O43TQLSVU9VH	0446677493	705906284	Hope Is the Thing with Feathers: A Personal  Chronicle of Vanished Birds	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Perched in the soul...	...From the second line of the Emily Dickinson poem that both inspired Cokinos and gave him his title for the book. It is only natural that a poet would look to Dickinson and it is appropriate that it is this form which guides this book. HOPE IS THE THING WITH FEATHERS is indeed a poetic and lyrical description of the symbolic significance of six vanished species of North American birds. <br />The Carolina parakeet, Heath Hen, Great Auk, Passenger pigeon, Labrador duck and Ivory-billed woodpecker have with their passing come to represent for Cokinos a lot more than simply another group of vanished species. They are emblematic of lost time, effort, habitat, environment, and are missing slice of life. Poignant as his descriptions of their loss is, there is always an element of hope that suffuses each of his chapters.<br />Cokinos with this book successfully blends history with a little bit of biology and adds just enough personal observation and insight. The mix works and his writing is excellent. There is enough science here to satisfy those who wish to remain at a respectable distance. For those who don't mind getting close there is sufficient reason - through what these birds represent about our past and future on this planet - to allow them to come and perch in your soul.	2002-03-04
US	50452306	R2KIVV29DYUBN5	0375507507	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	4	16	19	N	N	An open book...	...Literarily, emotionally and psychologically. In terms of writing style Alexandra Fuller utilizes a visually descriptive, almost lyrical prose - \\"in the hot, slow time of day when time and sun and thought slow to a dragging, shallow, pale crawl...\\"  She mixes this technique with creative, childlike-simple unique  expressions such as when she describes two visiting church missionaries fending off her overly friendly dogs \\"in an offhand, I'm-not-really-pushing-your-dog-off-my-lap-I-love-dogs-really way.\\" On the emotional level this book is raw with the author sparing no punches in depicting her parents off-the-scale less than politically correct views of their fellow (but black) Zimbabweans. Her father fought on the losing (and wrong) side of the Rhodesian civil war. He was a supporter of Ian Smith's white-minority government. Indeed there's really not much to like about Fuller's parents. But this is besides the point and discussing DON'T LETS GO TO THE DOGS TONIGHT in terms of its  social, political and economic setting also misses the point entirely.<br />This is a memoir and as such it doesn't need a perspective or agenda nor does it have to pay attention to it's environment or worry about whatever cultural influences may be influencing the writer. All it needs to be, and to do, is to be well written and to be honest and open. This it does, and does well. There is plenty of opportunity to talk about politics and economics here. Afterall the time period (1972 -1990) and the places, Rhodesia (Zimbabwe after independence in 1980), Malawi and Zambia are frought with colonial and postcolonial concerns such as underdevelopment, equity, minority and majority rule, and revolutions. To complain that these issues are missing (and thankfully they are) is, again, missing the point. <br />Yes, Fuller's book does remind one of old colonial English literature in terms of its approach to Africa and Africans. It's not the romantic image that Dinisen, Markham, and Huxley portrayedthough. Some may see similarities with Waugh in the less than flattering portrayal of the people, and the visual imagery the word 'native' creates. But let's not stop there. What about those other defenders of the imperial imperative - Kipling, Conrad and Naipaul? If you wished to pursue this line of reasoning to see what all these writers' works say about culture,  race, colonialism and imperialism there's no better book to read than Edward Said's CULTURE & IMPERIALISM. As the doyen of postcolonial studies he knows all about the literary depiction of these dark deeds in Waugh's satire, Kipling's poetry and Naipaul's novels. The truth is Fuller's book is nowhere near this league, nor is it trying to be. For the last time...it's a memoir! <br />The words below are from another postcolonial thinker like Edward Said but offer the best context in which to view Fuller's and all other seemingly insensitive and contentious books. <br />\\"A book is a version of the world. If you do not like it, ignore it; or offer your own version in return.\\" (Salman Rushdie)	2002-03-03
US	50452306	R1E6G0MLYBRWMQ	0609606352	413235641	How the Scots Invented the Modern World: The True Story of How Western Europe's Poorest Nation Created Our World and Everything in It	Books	4	216	235	N	N	Och! he's a wee bit of a blether	Some of his more dour Scottish readers may very well tell Arthur Herman that he's mixing in a little bit of nonsense here. HOW THE SCOTS INVENTED THE MODERN WORLD is a glowing tribute to the Scots but he does go over the top a bit in giving them credit for more than they actually achieved, and also more than the Scot's ever claimed for themselves. <br />This book however is a serious study of Scotland in the 18th century, particularly the period following the Act of Union with England in 1707 known as the Scottish Enlightenment. THE SCOTTISH ENLIGHTENMENT is actually the book's UK title but that doesn't mean too much to us here. Far more eye-catching and interesting sounding is the title used for the US edition. This however creates a problem for the author. Its pop-culture sounding theme gives the impression that we will be engaged in competitive national chest-beating such as HOW THE IRISH SAVED CIVILIZATION and comparing lists of who accomplished what as in SPREZZATURA: 50 WAYS ITALIAN GENIUS SHAPED THE WORLD. Here the Scots supposedly not only CREATED OUR WORLD [but also] EVERYTHING IN IT!. Such claims don't allow the book to be taken very seriously but that is exactly how Herman wants it to be read. It's therefore a credit to him that his presentation of the facts and his arguments are good enough to allow him to make his point.<br />If we were to compile lists, one that would show Scottish prowess would be that of great thinkers of the 18th century. Start with Adam Smith, David Hume, Walter Scott, James Watt and Lord Kelvin.  There is also John Stuart Mill. Those who were less thinkers and inventors but doers were David Livingstone and Scottish-Americans such as John Muir and Andrew Carnegie. It is the presence of transplanted Scots like Carnegie which underlies one of the authors main points. They are the \\"true inventors\\" of \\"modernity\\" because they  carried their beliefs with them as they settled around the world. Thus the roots of the Western traditions ofindividualism, democracy, and capitalism can all be traced back to Scotland.<br />It's an interesting argument carried off with much bravado and assured writing on the part of the author. To the extent that he stays away from the stereotypes such as the thrifty, penny-pinching Scot we can be thankful. This is a guid book and as a bairn of the Campbell's of Argyll on my mother's side I am pleased that this book has helped me ken a lot more about Scotland.	2002-03-03
US	50452306	R22EBEE92HAVLC	0393043487	156190911	Servants of the Map: Stories	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Mapping the contours of the heart	This is a brilliantly written collection of stories that seamlessly meshes fact with fiction, science with love and faith, and the pursuit of exploration and discovery with the satisfaction of the simpler life. There are so many interesting insights into the emotions of her created characters that we wonder if there is any parallel with the lives of real adventurers.<br />The opening title story of SERVANTS OF THE MAP starts us off well. The Great Trigonometrical Survey of India begun in the mid 19th century was a grand exercise of mapping the sub-continent. The map contours of interest were the peaks and valleys of the &quot;still to be named&quot; mountains of northern India. We meet Max Vignes, a draughtsman who when not sketching the details of what would later be the Himalayas, was looking down and passionately observing plants, leaves, and lichen. Max is obsessed with botany and the real mapping done by Barrett is of the contours of Max's heart. We see him torn between his love for his wife Clare and his two daughters and his all consuming scientific enthrallment with plants. <br />This is just the first story and yet Barrett's technique of interweaving the real and the imagined, and her theme of scientific enquiry juxtaposed against the demands of the human heart, are both already fully developed and flowering. She goes on to explore this some more with &quot;Two Rivers&quot; where academically inclined Samuel seeks to disprove all non-theological explanations for fossils. We are transported to the world of emerging Darwinism and Barrett uses Samuel to investigate the inner difficulty of reconciling oneself to change and adapting to a new world-view. It's an issue that has as much resonance today as it did in Samuel's world of 100 years ago.<br />Other stories where this inner geography is explored are &quot;Theories of Rain&quot; and &quot;The Forest&quot; and some of the colorful characters are Aunt's Daphne and Jane, Bianca Marburg, and Nora Kynd who appears in the last story &quot;The Cure&quot;. Max, Clare and their daughter Elizabeth also make a return. In a fitting summation to the book Clare shows her ambivalence to Max's return. It's a perfect illustration of the truth that with the human heart there will always be undiscovered territory. &quot;I do love him,&quot; she says. &quot;Or I did - how can I know what I feel anymore...&quot; <br />This is my first book by Barrett but I've already begun what I can only hope is an equally enjoyable journey with another one.	2002-03-02
US	50452306	R223Z85E2T1QDU	1586481282	267400619	Our Votes, Our Guns: Robert Mugabe and the Tragedy of Zimbabwe	Books	5	27	31	N	N	"A cartoon figure of the archetypical African dictator"	So said Archbishop Desmond Tutu of Robert Mugabe. This is coming from a church leader about someone who often publicly boasts about being a devout christian. If the Archbishop's criticism doesn't bother Mugabe then maybe Nelson Mandela's dissmissive epithet - calling the man \\"Comrade Bob\\" hits more to home. Mandela throws cold water on Mugabe's previously illustrious reputation as a freedom fighter and liberator of his people.<br />Mentioning Mandela is an appropriate starting point for discussing OUR VOTES,OUR GUNS because the author - Martin Meredith - is best known for his authoritative biography of Mandela. Here he applies his writing skills and powers of observation with the same results - a thorough analysis with keen insights into the personality. So who is Robert Mugabe and how is it that from a position of world acclaim as a hero at Zimbabwe's independence in April, 1980 - inhereting \\"a jewel\\" as Meredith quotes another African leader as telling him - he has sunk to such a low position today? Meredith says that a lot of this can be explained by over optimism and excessive expectations. In the 1970's he was the guerilla leader of the Zimbabwe African National Union/Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) which wrested control of Rhodesia from the minority, white-ruled government of Ian Smith. Following independence Mugabe emerged as a statesman. He was committed to reconciliation with whites and Meredith refers to Mugabe's speech on Independence day. He promised to \\"draw a line through the past\\" and said \\"if yesterday I fought you as an enemy, today you have become a friend and ally with the same national interest...\\" Meredith argues however that the hope in Mugabe as a model of the new African leader was badly misplaced. He says that Mugabe was never committed to democracy and his rule increasingly reflected his autocratic tendencies. <br />The book is very clear however in showing that Zimbabwe is not a one-party state. It is a functioning democracy with the required basics of regular elections, a free press and an independent judiciary. Mugabe also has achieved some notable successes. In keeping with their president's love of education (Mugabe has seven degrees) Zimbabwean's are generally very well educated and highly literate. The country has one of the highest rates of literacy in Africa (nearly 90%). Despite being an avowed marxist and thus seeking radical solutions to economic problems, and his very ugly attack on Matabeleland where his army killed thousands of civilians in an attempt to quash dissent, Mugabe could nevertheless always count on international and domestic support (especially in rural areas). In recent years his support both at home and abroad has evaporated, largely due to his increasingly violent land reform policies. 'Reconciliation' is no longer a word in Mugabe's vocabulary and he now calls Zimbabwe's white farmers racists and neocolonialists. <br />Meredith goes into all the social, economic, and political underpinnings of Mugabe's 22 year rule and the concomitant decline of Zimbabwe. One of the telling indicators of economic collapse is that this is a country that once had productive farms (albeit white-owned in a majority black country) and a booming agricultural sector. Today there are starving Zimbabweans. This book was no doubt published now because of its relevance in the  lead-up to next week's electionsm - the most important in Zimbabwe's short history. As OUR VOTES, OUR GUNS clearly shows the events of March 9-1Oth will go a long way to deciding what kind of future Zimbabwe has and whether a line can in fact be drawn through the past.	2002-03-02
US	50452306	R5Q18YX1DZWOD	1552095886	685040943	Owls: The Silent Flyers	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Silent death...	...for rats, mice, possum and other small nocturnal animals. Delivered by the talons of one of the 19 species of North American owls described, and beautifully photographed in OWLS: THE SILENT FLYERS. The history of owl's relationship with man is mixed. Due to their nightly stealth and effectiveness as hunters many cultures have imbued them with special powers. As such they have oftentimes been persecuted as harbingers of death. Yet man also treasures these magnificent birds and in many places they are symbols of wisdom and good fortune. <br />All this and much more is mentioned by the author as he tells of his personal experiences with many of the species through  rehabilitating orphaned and injured birds. Diversity abounds. There are large species such as the Great Horned Owl and the Great Gray Owl and the tiny ones - Pygmy and Elf Owls. Ground dwellers such as the Burrowing Owl can be contrasted with northern-forest dwellers. Some have adapted to man made environments (the Barn Owl) while others are restricted to the remote artic wilderness (the Snowy Owl) <br />Each chapter covers a different species or group of owls and each description is supplemented with a map showing range and useful information such as the birds measurements, description of its eggs, nesting and breeding behavior, their diet and lastly, but by no means least - owl-watching tips for birders. This is however not a field guide. For one thing, it's too large. It is a good general introduction to North American owls highlighted with 70 full color photos and written by someone who obviously appreciates these unique birds. It also remains one of the better books available on the subject.	2002-03-01
US	50452306	R2HZ27XE41B4DO	0374129851	669624016	The Englishman's Daughter: A True Story of Love and Betrayal in World War One	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Chercher la femme	The woman being searched for could be either THE ENGLISHMAN'S DAUGHTER herself - an old French woman named Helene, whose father - Pvt. Robert Digby, is one of the central characters of this true story. Digby was an English soldier serving in France in 1914 during WWI. Or the author could be looking for the identity of the woman in the French song known by all the people of Villeret. A woman &quot;so jealous and wicked&quot; as one verse says, that she betrayed Digby and three other allied soldiers to the Germans. All four men were promptly executed. Three others managed to escape to Britain. <br />The villagers had initial success in hiding these seven soldiers, first in the nearby forest then in outlying buildings. The author - Ben Macintyre - clearly shows that the villagers had contrasting emotions. Honor and pride in hosting and looking after their guests, yet also trepidation and fear from recognition of the great risk that they were taking. As time passed it was decided to cease hiding the men and to try and incorporate them into village life. Macintyre creates an almost palpable sense of danger when writing that the villagers &quot;set about the courageous but daunting task of turning these English and Irish soldiers into northern French peasants.&quot; Danger only grew as time stretched to two years. The year 1916 saw an increase in the German presence and the harsh rules of occupation enforced by the German commandant Major Karl Evers made the situation very trying indeed. <br />Poignancy enters by way of the ultimately doomed romance between Digby and Claire Dessenne, a beautiful young villager. Helene was the result but the cost was great. The relationship put a strain on the inherent kindness of the populace, the war was taking its toll, and the eagerness to continue hosting the soldiers began to wane. The outcome was the arrival on the morning of May 16th of a group of Germans at the sleeping quarters of Digby and three others. Their roundup and execution by month end in the neighboring village of Le Catelet provides the sad denouement of the romantic story but the end for Villeret came a year later when the Germans destroyed every building in the village as they withdrew. <br />We began with a quest and Macintyre ends the same way. The woman who betrayed the Englishmen may have been Claire's mother but there is reason to suspect others, most prominently Villeret's acting mayor, the postman, and the baker. Perhaps in keeping with the sadness of the story it is appropriate that in the final outcome we never know who.	2002-03-01
US	50452306	RRDYSEANIP1GJ	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	20	21	N	N	"The horror!, the horror!"	These dying words of Mr Kurtz were first read in 1899 when HEART OF DARKNESS was published. Twain's KING LEOPOLD'S SOLILOQUY came out in 1905 and Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle wrote THE CRIME OF THE CONGO in 1909. Additionally, the Congo Reform Association (in support of which both Twain and Conan-Doyle wrote their books) began operating in 1904 with the sole purpose of bringing to public attention the terrible situation in the Congo Free State under the rule of Belgium's King Leopold II. It's obvious then that the horrific treatment of the Congolese as described in KING LEOPOLD'S GHOST was known about and well documented. The issue here is not one of a lack of awareness. In fact Hochschild says there was \\"a storm of righteous protest\\" and moral outrage in England and America when the facts became known. No, the issue is more to do with why this genocide of 100 years ago remains such a relatively unknown story and is rarely ever mentioned when the topic of discussion is man's cruelty to man. It's not because the carnage was insignificant. In terms of numbers the death toll stacks up well with other holocausts. Hochschild estimates the number of Congolese that died between 1885 - 1920 from between 5 to 10 million.<br />In attempting to come to terms with this and explain why there seems to be so little present-day consciousness of what took place, the author admits to his own lack of knowledge prior to his research. A partial answer is that in the Congo today, there is very little information available on this period. More significantly though it is because of the special nature of the Congo and its colonial history. But it seems to me the book shows that most importantly, in a country that has known only paroxysms, death is a constant and numbers are merely matters of scale on a continuum. The special characteristic of the Congo is that it is incredibly blessed with natural mineral wealth - coal, cobalt, copper, diamonds, gold, manganese, offshiore petroleum, silver, tin,uranium and zinc. Not even mentioned yet are the products that this book talks about and what King Leopold was greedily ravaging the country for - rubber, ivory and timber. Against this background, and with interests in Belgium, France, Germany, and England eyeing this and other African wealth, who really is surprised to learn that economic considerations and international political deliberations have in the past swept human-interest issues under the carpet. <br />Hochschild does an admirable job of highlighting the human rights context of his story. For him the heroes are the two founders of the Congo Reform Association - Edmund Dene Morel and Roger Casement and the villains are of course King Leopold and the man whom the King initially depended upon to organize the Congo Free State - Henry Morton Stanley. Morel's \\"flash of moral recognition\\" that something was terribly wrong in the Congo is how we begin this book. While we can see some of the colonials as illustrative of the heart of darkness, and Hochschild's description of some of the massacres is indeed gruesome, this book is far more than a simple, sensationalist, expose on the evils of the white-man and colonialism. There are some interesting sub-texts here. While white missionaries were instrumental in bringing much of the attrocities to light they were also not above dark deeds. Initially the Belgian church in the Congo portrayed criticisms as an attack on Roman Catholicism by protestant missionaries. This may have also been due to the fact that some were American, and black - George Washington Williams and William Sheppard for instance. Both catholics and protestants were also initially fooled by Leopold's pious pronouncements and believed that he was unaware of what was being done in his name.  <br />The Congo is a huge country. It has an ancient history and culture and it is populated with various different ethnic groups including pygmies. It was visited by Arab traders and slavers long before Europeansarrived and now, decades after independence, still struggles with issues related to political, economic, and social cohesion. KING LEOPOLD'S GHOST only covers a part of this history and therefore only offers a limited answer to the puzzle that is today's sorry state known as the Democratic Republic of the Congo. However even as a partial answer, it is well worth reading.	2002-02-22
US	50452306	R3HQXHT57CPWJR	0151005060	370162323	The Riddle of the Compass: The Invention That Changed the World	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Pointing in the wrong direction	It's my own fault I'm disappointed with THE RIDDLE OF THE COMPASS. I know I should never judge a book by its cover, but the image of the compass, and the idea that reading this would be like a quest to solve some puzzle, was just too appealing to leave alone. The book however doesn't deliver on its promise. <br />It starts well enough with a visit to Amalfi, Italy where we stand with the author and peer at the bronze statue of one Flavio Gioia, hailed in those parts as the inventor of the compass. However, when Aczel reveals that the man is most probably fiction and has nothing to do with the compass, the riddle really begins. The problem though is that it's the reader that remains puzzled througout. The town is where the first seaworthy, boxed, compass was developed but what's the point of Gioia? Marco Polo is mentioned and we are told about his adventures. It's interesting reading but the trips have nothing to do with the compass, except that they were to China where the instrument is generally agreed to have been first invented. The main area of focus in the book is the history of navigation from early times to our modern technological age with the importance of the Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) system. But why this emphasis on navigation if as Aczel himself says &quot;the compass did not enable navigation - navigation across the seas took place long before the compass was invented...&quot; Puzzling. He does go on to make the point however that the compass made navigation more efficient and opened up seaborne trade routes. <br />There really is not a lot here about the compass at all. Nothing  much on it's scientific importance or on it's technical undepinnings. His descriptions about his boyhood years navigating in the Mediterranean provide a personal touch but don't tell us much about the tool. There are so many other scientific digressions that would have been more to the point. In discussing earth's magnetic properties why no mention of birds inbuilt compasses that let them migrate thousands of miles? There are other Earth energies besides magnetism; what is a diving rod but an ancient compass?	2002-02-19
US	50452306	R3GS08JWNM5A	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	4	72	76	N	N	"Africa has no future"	Naipaul in one of his typically politically-incorrect interviews said these very words about the continent. A BEND IN THE RIVER is therefore a gloomy book and offers a pessimistic view of Africa. If Conrad had not already taken the title, then this book could easily have been called HEART OF DARKNESS. That's not a coincidence either as Naipaul is frequently compared to Conrad in terms of literary style and theme. The setting is the same also. Although A BEND.. takes place in a fictitious African country it can be read as either Congo or Uganda as it is based on his visits to those countries in the 1960's.<br />The principal character and narrator of the story is Salim, an Indian and Muslim. Indian merchant families like his have been living in the coastal area of the country for generations. The blacks live inland. Salim decides to move to a small, formerly-quaint colonial town in the interior to set up shop and sell cloth. He is immediately at a loss, in conflict, confused - a man in search of an identity in a country in search of itself. Salim must contend with the rapidly changing social, economic and political environment of the newly independent country while at the same time sort out his own world view in the face of the contending opinions of the other characters. There is the influence of the Big Man - and simply because he is president for life - his interests must be served. There are others: a  Belgian priest; Raymond, the white speech writer for the Big Man; Yvette, Raymond's wife; Mahesh, a disillusioned Indian, and finally, the most unlikey important character - Ferdinand. He is a simple boy from the \\"bush\\", who, in this upside-down country, becomes Governor of the town after the nation is \\"radicalized\\" by the Big Man. <br />The newly-independent former-colony and the various cultural and political influences of the inhabitants are the foils for two of Naipaul's favorite themes. First is his affinity for, and identity with, dispossessed persons. Dispossessed in the personal sense of the word - no home, no country, no identity - a nobody.  Following from this personal sense of rootlessness and anomie is Naipaul's un-romantic and oftentimes very critical assessment of  the ability of developing countries to sustain the hopes and dreams of their people. This is ably summed up by Ferdinand. \\"We are all going to hell, and everyman knows this in his bones...everyone want's to make his money and run away. But where?\\" <br />Naipaul's prose is direct, not symbolic, so many students of Post Colonial literature have had a field-day dissecting Naipaul's various literary allusions and castigate him as a conservative and supporter of neo-colonialism. If that's your area of interest and particular world-view then you will definitely not enjoy A BEND..  If on the other hand you simply like well written, slightly satirical novels with finely-detailed characters and are inclined to not take writers or your reading material too seriously then this is a book you'll definitely enjoy.	2002-02-17
US	50452306	R1MD8S5CRKG4JL	0670030368	680652058	Black Livingstone: A True Tale of Adventure in the Nineteenth-Century Congo	Books	3	12	14	N	N	The author presumes	Stanley's presumption that the white man he stumbled upon in the wilds of the Congo must be the lost Dr Livingstone was at least based on some knowledge. The same however, can not be said about some of the assumptions that Pagan Kennedy makes regarding the thoughts and motives of Presbyterian missionary William Sheppard in BLACK LIVINGSTONE. As another reviewer has already pointed out there are too many instances of &quot;he must have thought&quot; &quot;he would have believed&quot; &quot;perhaps he felt&quot; and so on. Suppositions that because they are repeated so often only draw your attention to the reality that there seems to be an awful lot that the author doesn't know about her subject. It's also very distracting.<br />More research may have only helped a little as there does not seem to be a whole lot of information available about William Sheppard. Born in 1865 in Virginia he attended Hampton Institute and then entered the ministry in Alabama. After pastorships in Georgia, this young black man in the predominantly white Southern Presbyterian Church was offered a position as missionary to the Belgian Congo in 1890. He and a fellow missionary - 23 year old white Alabaman Samuel Lapsley set off for what would be a 20 year  adventure for Sheppard. Lapsley on the otherhand lasted no time at all. He died from fever in 1892, eventually being replaced by William Morrison who came out in 1897.<br />Writing style and paucity of research material on the main subject notwithstanding, the book does a good enough job with the descrition of some of the adventures that Sheppard embarked on. Such as his journey to the land of the Kuba peoples &quot;who lived at the end of a labyrinth of secret paths; anyone who told the way into the city would be beheaded.&quot; This was also Congo under the rule of the rapacious Belgian King Leopold II and one of the duties assigned to Sheppard following Morrison's arrival was to document the cruel exploitation of the locals by the Europeans. Sheppards' uncovering of a massacre of locals by a cannibalistic king working at the behest of the Belgians showed both his bravery and his ability to handle tricky situations. <br />In the end the man was undone not by tribal feuding, politics or Belgian revenge, but by subtle human failings. He was found guilty of adultery having taken a few African mistresses while on service and was called home to answer charges by the church. It is strange that in discussing this episode the author is not as forthcoming with proposing what Sheppard might have been thinking or feeling. Perhaps it is finally a recognition that we simply can't know.<br />William Sheppard comes through as a brave, enterprising, and intrepid person. More akin to adventurer than missionary. He certainly rises above his fellow church workers. If BLACK LIVINGSTONE had been simply a telling of his story rather than guessing his thoughts, then the book would have been as enjoyable as the man was interesting.	2002-02-14
US	50452306	R14JMETUDSTF5S	0684866080	786012618	Eye of the Whale : Epic Passage from Baja to Siberia	Books	4	5	8	N	N	"That immense...intense and impeccable eye"	Staring into THE EYE OF THE WHALE certainly seems to be a mystical experience. Unfortunately on the whale watching trips I've been on you get no closer to the whales than the deck of the ship. Not close up and personal (sometimes even rubbing and patting the \\"friendly whales\\")as is the case in Baja, California, with watching the Gray whales from small Zodiac boats. Perhaps you are like me then and (unlike the author) know nothing about the metaphysical powers of whales and their ability to bring about meditative and contemplative states in mankind while imparting transcendental wisdom. This book is therefore equal parts a journey of self discovery by the author and a natural history and scientific discourse on the Pacific Gray whale. For my liking there are just a few too many experiences here such as this one by a marine biologist: \\"It was a calf and I could see its eye looking into my eyes...I knew we were talking...\\" Mr Spock mind-melds with Gracie the Humpback a la STAR TREK: THE VOYAGE HOME. <br />Although the author and others see \\"whales smile by my fingertips\\" and get all \\"misty eyed\\" and believe that the whales are \\"trying to save us from our human side\\" these sentimental and lyrical asides are simply a matter of writing style. Overall they  do not spoil the book. There is sufficient science and history here to satisfy those looking for something other than a \\"save the whales / save the world\\" soft-sell.  The defeat of Mitsubishi's proposed salt-works at one of the whale breeding  lagoons and the story of Charles Melville Scammon are themes that run throughout the book. Mitsubishi represents the modern day commercial threat to the whales while Scammon was an old-time whale-butchering sea captain. Scammons' conversion from hunter to benefactor (he ended up writing the definitive book on gray whales) is a tale well told. Perhaps, like the author, he too looked into the EYE OF THE WHALE. <br />\\"Nature and books belong to the eyes that see them\\" (Ralph Waldo Emerson)	2002-02-13
US	50452306	R3PTCQU4CW75FH	0525946284	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Something to crow about	Going back to the era of his best work - WWII, Follett comes up with a winner this time. He knows the period well and the detailed descriptions of conditions in wartime England and France feel authentic. <br />JACKDAWS opens in 1944 just prior to the allied invasion of Normandy. Female English spy Felicity 'Flick' Clariet and her French Resistance husband Michel are participating in an sabotage attack on a German telephone exchange. The plan goes sour and they are the only two to escape. Michel is injured. <br />That's the setup for the story - the return of Flick to France to finish the job. We follow Flick as she develops her unusual plan   which relies on cover as domestics and telephone operators. As such it's a small team she recruits, and they're all women. The only qualifying criteria is that they all be fluent in French and know something about engineering and explosives. Half the fun here is in their recruitment - \\"one flirt, one murderess, one safebreaker, one female impersonator, and one awkward aristocrat.\\"<br />The plot is sufficiently well developed with the familiar Follett twists and turns. There is enough deception, duplicity, and danger here to make this quite a satisfying adventure ride. It's been a while but let's hope the famous Follett formula for  entertaining espionage thrillers is back for good.	2002-02-04
US	50452306	R3EEKCPIKZVSVT	0679450785	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	5	48	54	N	N	All the talk about diversity; it's biodiversity that matters	Forget the nattering about cultural and religious diversity. Edward O Wilson makes a strong and compelling argument that biodiversity should take pride-of-place as the pre-emininent subject of discussion. THE FUTURE OF LIFE should be the topic that the diversity industry concentrates on. <br />The substantive subject here however is not the scientific underpinnings of adaptation, evolutionary psychology and sociobiology in general, nor does this book go into the moral and political debates surrounding these topics. It's a refreshing break from the 'Science Wars' and the concomitantly fought, but larger, 'Culture Wars.' A refreshing break yes, but this book is by no means breezy or full of cheer. You may very well come away depressed - how else can it be when the subject is man - \\"the serial killer of the biosphere.\\" In the end though there is some room for cautious optimism.<br />The litany of woes is well known - destruction of tropical rainforests, overpopulation, pollution, desertification, and massive loss of plant and animal species. Indeed science is generally in agreement on the fact that we are in the midst of a Great Extinction event. They've been others. This is THE SIXTH EXTINCTION (as Richard Leakey put it a few years ago), but it's the first since hominids arrived, and as Wilson says [we have] \\"accelerated the erasure of entire ecosystems and the extinction of thousands of million-year-old species.\\" Wilson wrote about this previously in THE DIVERSITY OF LIFE but it seems to me, he is following on from CONSILIENCE (where he offered a sythesis of knowledge) by reaffirming that for mankind today, what we know (and equally as important, what we do not know) about the environment is the only knowledge that really matters. He says \\"perhaps the time has come to stop calling it the 'environmentalist' view, as though it were a lobbying effort outside the mainstream of human activity, and to start calling it the real-world view.\\"<br />Since we've not yet got thatvision, the next best thing is to start using the sort of sythesis thinking that Wilson offers here. Economics is the science of rational man, so in appealing to reason, not emotion, Wilson blends biology with economics and shows the costs associated with a depleted environment. He mentions some \\"ecosystem services\\" such as pollination of crops, pollution control, climate control, and water purification, and mentions that a 1997 study by economists put the value of these services at $33 trillion per annum. A partial loss of even some of these naturally occurring, and therefore free facilities would severely disrupt our economic activity, and more importantly, we could never afford the replacement costs. He builds on this emphasis with examples of its practical applicability. \\"In 1992 a pair of economic botanists demonstrated that single harvests of wild grown medicinals from two tropical forest plots in Belize were worth $726 and $3,327 per hectare respectively, with labor costs thrown in. By comparison, other researchers estimated per hectare yield from tropical forest converted to farmland at $228 in nearby Guatemala and $339 in Brazil.\\" <br />Although economics as practiced through industrialization and globalization is a large part of the problem, it must also be involved in the solution - \\"[making] conservation profitable.\\" This book forces us to confront a dismal recent past and a less than rosy immediate future, but Wilson nevertheless ends on a guardedly optimistic note. He offers solutions such as immediate protection of the worlds most sensitive ecosystems or \\"hotspots\\", a ban on logging of old-growth forests and mapping of the worlds biodiversity resources. <br />Wilson does tangentially bring up his pet theory of sociobiology and briefly discusses our genetic wiring as a non-forest dweller as a partial cause for our antipathy towards wilderness. In the end though, the book is a direct appeal to our ability to change based on past environmental experiences, and Wilson demonstrates a philosophical belief in man's spiritual connectedness to nature. It's a sythesis of knowledge and life. It's actually the sort of view that his old scientific rivals - Stephen Jay Gould and Richard Lewontin - would probably offer a nod to. It will be interesting to see how they receive this book. Consensus possibly? Maybe biodiversity is indeed all that really matters.<br />\\"The economy is a wholly owned subsidiary of the environment\\" (Gaylord Nelson)	2002-02-03
US	50452306	R2JTDH2RDTCPJF	0802713734	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	4	90	98	N	N	Worth his Salt	Yes, Kurlansky is worth his salt as a writer, researcher and uncoverer of unknown facts about odd subjects. As he did with his previous non fiction books he has woven strands of information into an interesting tapestry, equal parts - enthralling history lesson and cultural voyage. The only problem is - at 450 pages and 26 chapters, with numerous visits to different cultures, countries, eras and rulers in an attempt to cover as many of the 14,000 uses that salt is known for - finishing SALT: A WORLD HISTORY leaves you in a brine of facts, but also very thirsty for a unifying theme or story and a more memorable read. <br />Certainly my knowledge of historical trivia is now seasoned with tidbits such as: the Anglo-Saxon word for saltworks being 'wich' means that places such as Norwich, Greenwich, etc, in England were once ancient salt mines; Ghandi's independence movement in India began with his defying the British salt laws, and the French levied taxes on salt until as recently as 1946. <br />A common theme in Kurlansky's books is that food is seen as a topic of historical interest. Here we learn about the role salt played in preserving cod, whale, ham, herring, caviar, pastrami, salami and sausage, and as it was with COD and THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD this book is sprinkled throughout with recipes.<br />Salt is certainly an interesting subject; cultural history buffs will love this book and Kurlansky still has a humorous, easy, and very readable writing style; it's just that he probably could have salted away some of the facts without us missing much and he should have developed a flowing theme rather than one that was so saltatory.	2002-02-02
US	50452306	R1IGW9JBLBILC7	0374199442	605719111	The Birds of Heaven: Travels with Cranes	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Birds without borders, lessons unlearned, time unwinding	If you've read any of Matthiessen's non fiction you'll know that when he's passionate about a subject he has the ability to bring feelings alive with his poetic and vivid command of language. Tie that in with his inclination to be a naturally introspective  writer - literally seeking inner truths through nature - and you've got the threads that are woven together here to make THE BIRDS OF HEAVEN a beautifully written book. In describing a glimpse of three Japanese cranes on a misty early evening on the snow covered banks of a river, Matthiessen is at his evocative best. \\"Sun silvered creatures, moving gracefully without haste and yet swiftly in the black diamond shimmer of the Muri River - a hallucinatory vision, a revelation, although what is revealed beyond this silver moment of my life I do not know.\\" <br />While Matthiessen is poetic and romantic as a nature writer he is a blunt and critical social commentator. Our species comes in for some stick. We neither stack up well in creation - look at the beauty of an African Crowned crane, the \\"red-black-and-white head crowned by a spray of elongated feathers on the nape, like spun gold in the bright sun...how wonderful it seems that even the boldest colors of creation are never garish or mismatched, as they are so often in the work of man.\\" Nor do we do so well with what we create - China's Three Gorges Dam will destroy some pristine crane wintering lands and is, according to Matthiessen, \\"a grand folly of enormous cost.\\" Worse still is that we are such a self destructive species. The dam, he goes on to say, will also cause \\"social and environmental ruin\\" in this part of China. <br />Poignancy, yes, even sorrow at the passing of so many of the last wild and unspoilt areas of the planet, but sentimentality, wistfullness, hopelessness, and inaction are not words that are in this author's vocabulary. Indeed the fact that cranes are the central focus here is cause for cautious optimism. Cranes have always been a vibrant part of our cultural history and remain evocative symbols of our spiritual and creative imagination and are seen as omens of good luck and longevity in many countries. <br />The fifteen species of cranes (eleven of which are endangered or threatened) have lessons to teach mankind. Matthiessen's recounting of the sectarian squabbling that took place at an international gathering of crane conservationists is illustrative. While economics, politics, and nationality remain common dividing factors among the human participants, more than half of the species of cranes are content to make the Amur River basin in central Asia their common gathering ground. <br />A powerful book for Matthiessen's writing, the beautiful paintings and illustrations offered in support, and the stories of the cranes themselves - Saurus, Crowned Crane, Brolga, Siberian and the rare Whooping and Japanese Cranes - two of the most endangered species that Matthiessen says are \\"heraldic emblems of the purity of water, earth, and air that is being lost.\\" We need to conserve, appreciate, and learn from these birds of heaven, and heed the \\"horn notes of their voices, [that] like clarion calls out of the farthest skies, summon our attention to our own swift passage on this precious earth.\\"	2002-02-02
US	50452306	R2XCUDLMRU3BQA	0465006418	914557493	The Graves Are Not Yet Full Race, Tribe And Power In The Heart Of Africa	Books	5	22	27	N	N	"Africa is a nation with a lot of diseases" - George W Bush	This oft quoted remark the president made last year is the epitome of what Berkeley calls the \\"conventional American conception of Africa as a unitary landscape of unremitting despair.\\" The president and his conventional...wisdom? is not the target of Berkeley's book though. The author says that part of the purpose of THE GRAVES ARE NOT YET FULL is a \\"pointed rebuttal\\" to Afro-pessimists, the prime example being Robert D Kaplan and his book THE ENDS OF THE EARTH. <br />Similarly to Michela Wrong and her book - IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF MR KURTZ, Berkeley sees a lot of the problems in Africa as having foreign origins. Much moreso than Wrong though, he develops on the theme that violence and ethnic warfare are not the results of some \\"ancient tribal hatreds\\" in the words of Kaplan, but are in fact organized, manipulated, or orchestrated devices used by various African leaders as a means of exerting control and maintaining power. Ethnic conflicts in Africa he plainly says \\"are all provoked from on high.\\" <br />He illustrates this point by developing a series of profiles on the manipulative leaders and tales about the victims of their crimes. Berkeley is pretty blunt in his reporting and with his words. He starts off by saying that \\"this is a book about evil\\". It should be no surprise then that he is willing to put names to these \\"creatures of evil\\". Mobuto Sese Seko of Zaire is here, but again, this book is broader than Wrongs', - hers stopped there, but Berkeley looks at South Africa, Liberia, Angola, Sudan and Rwanda. He names Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Samuel Doe, Charles Taylor, Jonas Savimbi, Hasan Turabi and John Garang. It's not just Africans that are responsible though and in an entire chapter devoted to the role of former Assistant Secretary of State for Africa in the Reagan administration Chester Crocker, we see Berkeley's thesis developed to the full. While not calling the man a war criminal he nevertheless says that he was \\"the kind of figure many war criminals dependon: an articulate front man, capable of putting an intellectual gloss on otherwise crude power politics.\\" Berkeley believes Crocker is morally guilty of crimes against humanity for supporting the despotic and murderous rule of Samuel Doe in Liberia in the late 1980's. <br />With all these examples of criminal regimes, evil rulers, and morally corrupt and culpable supporters, it's possible to believe that this is an unremittingly bleak book and that the author holds out no hope for Africa. Not so at all. Berkeley says that \\"not all the news from Africa is bad, and much of it is hopeful.\\" Yoweri Museveni and Uganda are put forth as an example of what a peaceful, democratic, African future might look like.<br />All told this is a well researched, broad ranging book which develops an interesting thesis on the causes of what seems to be such an unyielding problem. Berkeley's rational, well written and very plausible argument does offer hope for Africa. While it is true that despotic regimes and evil rulers are a significantly widespread and sometimes well embedded sore, the truth is that once identified and named, a cure can be sought for any disease. This is a much more manageable (and realistic) beginning point than the hand-wringing, non-solution offered by viewing Africa as a single entity plagued with irrational violence and unfathomable tribal slaughters.	2002-01-28
US	50452306	R3RVPF9VCYW4BS	1841154210	657007054	In the Footsteps of Mr. Kurtz: Living on the Brink of Disaster in Mobutu's Congo	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wrong has got it right	Starting off with a discussion about Belgian King Leopold II and his rapacious rule in the former Belgian Congo, Michela Wrong pretty quickly lets you know what she thinks are the primary causes of the problems facing Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of Congo) - interfering, self-interested Western powers. This book is however not a polemic against the west, nor a diatribe about colonialism and imperialism. IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF MR KUTZ is a very balanced account.<br />The author points her finger at the west for its exploitative policies with sole interest in the vast natural wealth (diamonds, gold, uranium, copper, tungsten) in the Congo and for our myopic cold war policies which viewed everthing through a \\"with us or against us\\" lens. Nevertheless she is very clear in stating that the principal agent for the rot that now grips the failed nation state of the DRC is very much home grown. <br />Mobuto Sese Seko was the ultimate ruler of Zaire for 32 years from 1965 until a rebel army chased the aged and ailing despot to Morocco in 1997 (he died of prostate cancer within a few months). Beginning as a simple army sargeant his rise to power was at the expense of his former friend and commander-in-chief, the democratically elected (but communist leaning?) first prime minister of Congo, Patrice Lumumba. Mobutu was adroit at political gamesmanship on the international stage, playing one western power against another. Domestically he was no dunce either, manipulating tribal interests and influences to his own benefit. All this is carefully laid out by the author and highlighted by using some of the more bizarre and extravagant examples of his excesses. <br />The referrence to Mr Kurtz in the title is of course Joseph Conrad's character from THE HEART OF DARKNESS. The connection is more than the setting in Congo. Wrong quotes Conrad - Kurtz at the end of the novel is dying; drifting down river he says \\"the horror, the horror.\\" This book extends \\"the horror\\" to the disastrous juxtaposition of both domestic and foreign greed, corruption, ineptitude and self interest as demonstrated by individuals and agencies of government, that have conspired to make the DRC what it is today - \\"a paradoy of a functioning state.\\"	2002-01-27
US	50452306	R225G1LHZAX99A	0679454918	226385792	The Shadow of the Sun	Books	2	12	39	N	N	Too long in the mid-day Sun	Ryszard Kapuscinski has vast experience in Africa from Rwanda and Tanzania in the East to Nigeria and Liberia in the West. He travelled the unbeaten paths and stayed away from the Hotels, Embassy functions and expatriate social circles. His publishers tell you his credentials as an objective analyzer of 'the true Africa' are impeccable, because Poland was never a colonizer, and he is unencumbered by the type of post-colonial guilt that clouds the views of other European commentators. All this is true perhaps, but there are a few points to consider before reading THE SHADOW OF THE SUN.(1) Does experiencing something automatically make one an authority on that subject? (2)What's the difference between a journalist and a travel writer, and can either of them engage in &quot;poetic license&quot;? (3)Is being well written sufficient recommendation for a Non-fiction book? and (4) How much does reputation, expectation and publishing hype play in the writing, reception and marketing of a book? Put all of these in the mix when you read this book, which is a collection of personal vignettes of Polish journalist Ryszard Kapuscinski's 30 plus years of on-and-off reporting from Africa. <br />Put them in the mix because the author has admitted in the past that literary considerations take precedence. Over what? Could it be facts? Putting that aside, let's look at the claim that experience and being from a country that never colonized but in fact - like much of Africa, was itself conquered - gives the author a predisposition to understanding. This is proven false very early in the book with some banal generalizations. The comments on time and the pace of African life strike me as exactly the type of eurocentricity that he says he's incapable of. &quot;Africans apprehend time differently. For them, it is a much looser concept, more open, elastic&quot; and life itself is conducted more &quot;naturally, freely, at a tempo determined by climate and tradition...&quot; It's the sort ofexplanation offered by social psychologists. Read A GEOGRAPHY OF TIME for the full development of those ideas. That author at least used humor, and was somewhat tongue-in-cheek with his observations. Mr Kapuscinski on the other hand is very serious indeed.<br />&quot;With each book you write you should lose the admirers you gained with the previous one&quot; (Andre Gide)<br />True but that happens with improvement not with a step backwards. Mr Kapuscinski, come out of the Sun before you write another book.	2001-09-02
US	50452306	R25B917J77JO6Y	1565122542	382163077	Return of the Osprey: A Season of Flight and Wonder	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A 21st-Century-Emerson and his observations	Lyrical and stylish in writing, Gessner is able to create vivid pictures with his words. This gift allows us to be transported to Cape Cod beaches to share with him in his observations on the Osprey's, nature in general, and life, as it can and should be. I am biased however as the town of Dennis where RETURN OF THE OSPREY is set, is no more than 5 miles west of me, and part of my time is spent in similar activities (studying the migration of neotropical birds - specifically warblers). This book has a far broader appeal than for birders or Cape Codder's though. As another reviewer already pointed out, Gessner writes in the best traditions of Thoreau or Emerson. Gessner talks about the life history and behavior of the Osprey, its near extinction and it's recent comeback on the Cape. He does this while exploring the world around him and uses the story of the Osprey as a way of looking at man's role in nature. This is an &quot;experiment in seeing&quot; and to quote Emerson (as he does) &quot;to see is everything&quot;.<br />Ironically it's in trying a bit too hard to be a modern day Emerson where the book falls down a bit. In extending this vision to the personal, Gessner offers us a few too many observations on what the Ospreys and nature means to the inner man. In &quot;exploring the mystery&quot; we could do without him comparing the emotions of watching a diving Osprey with that of his first sexual experience. More scientific observations and less metaphysical ones would have made the book perfect.	2001-09-01
US	50452306	RGCONYPJKURAE	0871137801	87068632	The Three Roosevelts: Patrician Leaders Who Transformed America	Books	4	6	9	N	N	What's the common theme?	Trodding the well worn path of assessing the administrations of TR and FDR, and the historical significance of THE THREE ROOSEVELTS naturally means covering some very familiar territory. Teddy the extroverted outdoor adventurer; FDR - complex, secretive, manipulative, and Eleanor the activist. So what's new? The authors offer the view that without the three, the course of 20th century US history would have been vastly different. &quot;The genius of these three leaders lay in their recognizing the needs of the people early on, sensing their political mood, mobilizing their support, and then - above all - acting&quot; The common theme then is that the THREE ROOSEVELTS &quot;charted the course of progressive reform in America.&quot; They brought &quot;transformational change&quot;.<br />It's a nice try and the book does explore some possible common motives that drove these three activists. Family, culture and the social environment all have some role to play. As a result the biographical sketches provided on each is sufficiently detailed. The problem with the theme is that the two men - their personalities, the way they governed, and their administrations - were more unalike than similar. TR was somewhat puritanical, FDR something else entirely; TR's side of the family was traditionally Republican while FDR is an icon of the liberal democratic tradition; FDR governed through &quot;brain trusts&quot;, of personal followers (the first example of modern-day &quot;cronyism&quot; some argue) wheras TR delegated and relied heavily on a very strong cabinet.<br />Overall the author's portray all three in very favorable terms, moreso FDR and Eleanor; not as much time is spent on Teddy. Negative views of FDR's latter terms, such as in THE NEW DEALER'S WAR by Thomas Fleming, will not be on these author's reading lists. Contrary to such books, here FDR is not seen as weak or ineffective following his 4th term victory in 1944.	2001-09-01
US	50452306	R3DWSFXM14V9LQ	006019314X	108696261	Hirohito And The Making Of Modern Japan	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A direct line of descent from Ameratsu	There are almost as many issues and questions that are raised as there are fascinating and revealing insights provided by HIROHITO AND THE MAKING OF MODERN JAPAN. The substantive subject of the book is of course Hirohito and his 63 year reign as Emperor of Japan. More specifically Bix looks at the public image of Hirohito. An image founded in divinity, supported by religious cult worship of the Emperor as a living God, directly descended from the Sun Goddess of Japan's creation myth. It is an image tarnished through association with the ultra-nationalists that ruled during WWII; and then burnished to a bright shine with help from Douglas MacArthur following Japan's defeat, to allow the occupation government to administer a peaceful country through its Emperor. <br />It should be interesting to hear what Bix says about how he thinks the book will be received in Japan (he will be on CSPAN's Booknotes program this Sunday). I wondered why the titles of the sources had been left in Japanese but I now realize that this is his intended audience. Japan is still struggling with dealing with its war record and the rest of Asia was recently up in arms over Japan's insensitivity on the matter. Along comes HIROHITO.., at 800 pages it's a long read but the books radical reassessment of the Emperor will ensure that it's talked about for some time; more importantly it probably will mean talking about Japan's role in WWII. If much of that talk takes place in Japan, all the better. <br />&quot;Books will speak plain when counsellors blanch&quot; (Francis Bacon)	2001-08-31
US	50452306	R2N2JDC3M0FT9H	0393020185	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	22	23	N	N	My mutating mitochondrial grandmother	Genetic research is where all the science headlines are being made. If you are one of the scientists making the headlines - good for you. If you are able to write well, and can make your subject accessible to the layman, and do so with humor, all the better. So it is with Bryan Sykes and THE SEVEN DAUGHTERS OF EVE. This is the sort of book that probably drives equally qualified, but dry-boring-subject and less-literary-talented scientists green with envy. This book is a genuine can't-put-down science thriller. The substantive subject of this book is the genetic ancestry of Europeans, specifically Sykes' contention that 90% of Europeans can trace their maternal ancestry back some tens of thousands of years to one of seven women, the most ancient of which lived 45,000 years ago. In taking us on a trip backwards to meet our great-grandmothers (thousands of times removed) he reveals some very interesting tidbits such as: &gt; The ancient Iceman found in a glacier in the Italian Alps in 1991 was proven to be of European origin, and no hoax. Sykes also made the first of his headlines by stating that Iceman had relatives currently alive and well in England. He produced one of these persons - Marie X - for the press, and was able to prove from his large database of DNA, that there was an &quot;unbroken genetic link between Marie and the Iceman's mother stretching back over 5,000 years and faithfully recorded in the DNA&quot;. &gt; Sykes has established almost to a certainty, that the bones found outside Ekaterinburg, Russia, in 1991 are in fact those of Czar Nicholas II and his family. &gt; He also says that Polynesians came from Southeast Asia, rather than from South America. This not only disproves a long held belief, but because this journey is against the prevailing currents and winds, makes them some of history's best sailors. Interesting as they are, these are merely samples of what his DNA work is capable of. The real interest in the book is in his research on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and how its unique characteristics assist in determining ancestry. Mitochondria are organelles within cells that provide energy to the cell; sometimes referred to as &quot;the fire within&quot; they possess their own DNA - mtDNA. Unlike chromosomal DNA, mtDNA is not &quot;mixed&quot; (half from the male and half from the female) during reproduction; mtDNA is passed down from the mother only and passed on unchanged - with one exception - at certain points in time mtDNA mutates. These harmless mutations are not random but occur at specific and infrequent intervals (once every 10,000 years). They are passed down through suceeding generations and act as genetic markers of common ancestry. By looking at differences between mtDNA in living persons (Sykes has a vast collection, and is constantly looking to add to it; readers can send samples to the address provided...or Not!) and comparing it to samples from archaelogical specimens, Sykes is able to trace ancestry. This is what he did in order to come up with both the seven daughters (representing seven clans of European ancestry) and Eve herself (she came from a small human population group in Africa). This book touches on all the current topics in human origins and genetics. The debates about whether genetic variation is greater within a group or between groups; the genetic basis for races; the &quot;Out of Africa&quot; theory on the origins of man. If any of this is of interest to you, Sykes is more than willing to share his opinions with you, and he does so in a lucid and very readable manner.	2001-08-26
US	50452306	R3OR68UGWYA4TA	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	5	10	17	N	N	Did it?	Is Winchester's claim that this is THE MAP THAT CHANGED THE WORLD based on scientific fact, or is mere writer's hyperbole. The publishers are certainly believers and went so far as to make the book's cover into a cleverly designed fold-out miniature of the famous map. The huge (8ft x 6ft) original multicolored strata map, showing the rock layers and fossils of England was published in 1815, and it did indeed have a somewhat revolutionary impact on the social and intellectual climate of the period. This was &quot;a world of dogma, faith and certainty&quot; says the author. So much so that the church - through the divine wisdom and supreme authority of its Bishops - was quite confident in stating that the world was created at 9am on Monday, Oct.23, 4004BC. Who was going to argue? This &quot;first geologic map of anywhere in the world&quot; with its fossil evidence of extinctions from a lot earlier than the church's date was a direct assault on the creation myth. Winchester points out that this was not Smith's intention as &quot;Strata Smith&quot; or &quot;Smith, the drainer&quot; was a simple man of &quot;low birth&quot;. His careers as surveyor, canal builder &amp; drainage expert, and cartographer meant he was strictly interested in earthly matters; lofty ecclesiastical debates and discussions about the age of the heavens were not for him. He in fact remained a believer in Biblical creationism all his life. Nevertheless his creation is, as Winchester says, &quot;a map that allowed human beings to start at last to stagger out from the fogs of religious dogma, and to come to understand something certain about their own origins&quot;. Any other changes the map brought? Unfortunately it did not bring immediate recognition nor wealth to its owner. It appears that in 19th century England, class distinctions and social barriers were more resistant to change than even church beliefs. The Geological Society of England, to whom Smith presented the map, received it well; his reception was another matter entirely. &quot;Smith simply would not do...he was unpolished and ill educated. He did not know how to dress or to dine.&quot; He was denied membership, and was left to conclude that &quot;the theory of geology is in possession of one class of men while the practice in another.&quot; He had time to ponder the reality of this when he was placed in Kings Bench - debtors prison. During his stay the Society claimed his map as their own and published an almost identical version in 1819. This rocky patch of fortune was however not a permanent condition of life and in a pleasing ending to a good story, we learn that Smith, in 1831, 16 years after first publishing his map, finally got the deserved recognition. The same Geological Society - minus the priggish members - awarded him the Wollaston Medal, geology's highest honor. You don't need to know much geology to enjoy THE MAP THAT CHANGED THE WORLD and what terms you do come across are covered with a very good glossary. This is popular history at its very best.	2001-08-25
US	50452306	R2U0WK94RAOMZV	0805055568	38442087	Savage Shore: Life and Death with Nicaragua's Last Shark Hunters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not all sharks swim	A few of the human kind can be found in places like Bluefields, Nicaragua, where if this book had instead been set in the wild west of the US, the only proper name for some of the residents would be desperados. Although conditions are definitely frontier-like the characters are very 20th century, and uniquely Nicaraguan. Interspersed throughout SAVAGE SHORE are referrences to, and the occasional crossing of paths with, Sandinistas, Contras, Colombian drug dealers and the odd modern day pirate. These characters though are not even the central focus, but they certainly add to what is already a fascinating and well written travelogue, cultural study, nature journal, and critique on human greed, economic exploitation, and political chaos. <br />The central characters are not men at all but bull sharks that live, breed, and hunt in the Caribbean waters of Nicaragua's east coast. It is the &quot;most willful and aggressive of all tropical sharks&quot; and what makes it unique and worthy of a book, is that &quot;like no other shark, it possessed the ability to cross from salt water to freshwater, hunting far upriver&quot;. That means that the bull shark can be found up the Escondido river near Bluefields or more impressively, 60 miles up the San Juan river, all the way to Lake Nicaragua. It is as the author says &quot;shark where shark should not be - in fresh water, on human territory.&quot;<br />The book tells the tale of this shark and the men who hunt it, as they have for generations, - bravely, in open dugout canoes with hand held lines. The sharks are hunted for their body oils, the fins are used to make soup and the skin is tanned into leather. Poverty means that resource management is non-existent and overfishing means that the shark itself may soon be gone from its last great freshwater holdout - lake Nicaragua.<br />Fear and greed, the author says, are the two most common human emotions the bull shark elicits. Perhaps it's fitting then that this also best describes the pervasive feeling that one gets from this rough and tumble area. History has a part to play. In the 17th century Bluefields was the capital of the British protectorate - the Mosquito Coast - which stretched the length of Nicaragua's Caribbean shoreline to Puerto Cabeza in the north, and beyond into what is now Honduras. This explains how a town with an Anglo name exists in a Latin country. Slaves from Jamaica were brought in and their descendants are now the large, patois/english speaking Creole population. Co-existence with the Miskito, Sumu, and Ramu indians has not always been peaceful but the natives of this area have at times pulled together, usually in the face of some external threat, whether natural as in the many hurricanes that have devastated the area, or man made as in the political tribalism and battles between Sandinistas and Contras.<br />This story of sharks, at sea and on land, makes the place most appropriately named SAVAGE SHORE. Yet in an irony fitting for this book, the area is also the focal point of Nicaragua's tourism industry.	2001-08-23
US	50452306	R2BPG2D70FJSEE	1891620835	126638302	Here: A Biography of the New American Continent	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Globalization's cheerleader	Think back to a few years ago, when prior to the 1992 election, Ross Perot in attacking the then proposed North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), described it as &quot;a giant sucking sound&quot; of American jobs being lost to Mexico. Well the exodus of jobs never happened and Perot's one-sided criticism was probably just politics anyway. What then accounts for Mr DePalma's equally skewed analysis &quot;HERE&quot;; although the arguments in this book are the exact opposite of Perot's; for Mr DePalma, NAFTA is a very good thing. Perhaps the explanation for his ringing endorsement of the gradual economic integration of the US, Canadian, and Mexican economies, comes from the fact that Mr DePalma has lived and worked for a number of years in both Mexico and Canada. Looking at NAFTA from that vantage point shows that it's influence on not only economic, but also the social and cultural aspects of peoples lives, in the 7 years since the agreement came into effect, has been largely positive. <br />Mr DePalma sees the signing of the agreement itself as a significant achievement; the three nations, he says overcame decades of prejudice and have struck out on &quot;our shared destiny&quot; based on mutual respect and a committment to free trade. He gives sketches of the political and cultural histories of Canada and Mexico throughout his book and writes best when he mixes these in with stories of his experiences in each country. <br />Mr DePalma is correct in saying that &quot;we know North America exists, but we do not know North America&quot; and we can thank him for helping us learn a lot that's new about Canada and Mexico. There are however some limits to all this talk of continental unity. In his epilogue entitled &quot;symmetry regained&quot; he argues that NAFTA is removing the borders between the three countries and returning us to how it was before the Spanish, French and British came. He says as we go forward as a continent we will talk about &quot;here&quot; and not about &quot;there&quot;. <br />That may be all well and good economically and politically for everyone, and culturally also for Mexico as we become more Latino. The difficulty with this vision and ultimately then, with the book, is that the perspective from the US is startling absent throughout HERE. Mr DePalma doesn't seem to see the threat to unity when he says that in the US people &quot;rarely are conscious that they share this continent with anyone.&quot; What happens then, when political awareness comes with liberals highlighting some of the negative economic side-effects of NAFTA and conservatives drawing attention to the potential social and cultural dangers. <br />HERE is very one-sided and offers only the positives of free trade and globalization. Mr DePalma does not mention any of the negatives and more importantly, he totally ignores the reality that some of the same constituents in the US that now support NAFTA, if it becomes politically expedient to do otherwise, will turn on it with a vengeance. As a result he sounds a little naive and the book's arguments feel shallow.	2001-08-22
US	50452306	R2BX2RPNQR1ODX	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	5	86	101	N	N	Boys to men	This book has two central characters and is mostly a story about their shared experiences. The first subject is 2nd Lt. George McGovern, who in 1944 was just a typical US Army Air Force pilot; nothing here hints at the man, who, nearly 30 years later, would run for US president. The second is a machine, the B-24 Liberator, and one plane in particular - McGovern's &quot;Dakota Queen&quot;, which he piloted on 35 bombing missions over Germany from his base in Cerignola, Italy, as part of the 741st Squadron, 455th Bomb Group. THE WILD BLUE then has a narrow focus and is less about the broad role of the bomber in the air war over Europe - that story about the more famous and  glamorous B-17 and the 8th Air Force - has been told already in books like THE MIGHTY EIGHTH, a book which Ambrose himself read and rated highly. <br />The Liberator comes by it's neglected treatment in history, and it's earned reputation as an ugly duckling quite fairly, as the following description of conditions in the plane attests. &quot;Steering the four-engined airplane was difficult and exhausting, as there was no power except the pilot's muscles. It had no windshield wipers, so the pilot had to stick his head out the side window to see during a rain...there was no heat, despite temperatures that at 20,000 feet and higher got as low as 40 or 50 degrees below zero...the seats were not padded, could not be reclined, and were cramped into so small a space that a man had almost no chance to stretch and none whatsoever to relax. Absolutely nothing was done to make it comfortable for the pilot, co-pilot, or the other eight men in the crew...&quot; Yet, as with all ugly ducklings, it had it's day and earned it's admirers. There were more B-24's built than any other US airplane and Ambrose says &quot;it would be an exaggeration to say that the B-24 won the war for the Allies. But don't ask how they could have won the war without it.&quot;<br />The greater emphasis of the book is on McGovern and hiscrew's experiences and it's in the telling of these stories where Ambrose's skills always shine; allowing the personal recollections of the participants to make the events come alive for us the readers. We follow the crew from induction through training to their arrival in Italy in 1944. There was danger from the outset. The book reveals that in basic and advanced flight training over 3,500 men lost their lives, 824 in 1943 alone; survival was an issue even before entering combat. <br />McGovern and his crew experienced their fair share of adventures on missions. On one flight an engine quit, then another was hit by flak; on two engines he was losing altitude rapidly but McGovern managed to nurse the bomber down for an emergency landing on an airstrip less than half the length the B-24 normally required. For this feat McGovern earned the Distinguished Flying Cross. By highlighting McGovern's experiences are we to believe that the book is portraying him as exceptional? Not at all. The reality is that when he arrived in Italy in 1944, McGovern was a 21 year old pilot. His co-pilot and navigator were the same age and half his crew were teenagers. What Ambrose sees as extraordinary is that these stories of survival, skill, courage, fortitude, bravery, and duty, are all, each and every single one, the exploits of very young men - even boys. Indeed he says &quot;in the twenty-first century, adults would hardly give such youngsters the key to the family car, but in the first half of the 1940's the adults sent them out to play a critical role in saving the world.&quot;<br />They are now our aging parents and grandparents and all we can do is honor them and thank them for being men while they were still boys. We can only hope that written tributes such as THE WILD BLUE or the verse below are sufficient to show our appreciation to them.<br />&quot;They will soar on wings like eagles; they will run and not grow weary, they will walk and not grow faint.&quot; (Isaiah 40:31)	2001-08-21
US	50452306	R1KPAUVD4TDX6Q	0141001607	260062769	Mattanza: The Ancient Sicilian Ritual of Bluefin Tuna Fishing	Books	3	4	7	N	N	The ability to write well goes a long way	This book is very well written; it's almost poetic with the lyrical descriptions and vivid images that Theresa Maggio creates with her words. The author also eloquently captures for her readers the conflicting emotions she experienced as a modern American woman viewing unfamiliar cultural practices and dealing with an ancient Sicilian way of life. This against the backdrop of loving the people (and one man in particular) and exploring her heritage as a grandchild of Sicilians. She writes with a sadness and shares a sense of loss with the people as old traditions fade away; the ancient way of fishing for instance - MATTANZA - the bluefin tuna fishing ritual that is dying out as modern fishing methods intrude. <br />In the best traditions of good travelogues the book paints a sensitive and romantic portrait of traditional cultures; we are invited to feel a poignancy about the inevitable losses that changes through modernization brings. The author in describing her man says &quot;he was a good man in a dying trade, a fisherman to the core of his soul. His boat, his nets, and the sea were his life.&quot; <br />Writing style and attention to culture - the hallmarks of a good travelogue being present - what then is the problem with the book? The truth is that the cultural practice itself is not one that we develop much sympathy for. MATTANZA, although certainly not a glorification of death, and steeped as it is in religious symbolism, nevertheless is shown up as a bloody ritual, and more unfortunately for the book, a rather senseless one.<br />Maggio describes the scene around the trap. &quot;The net was drawn taught, and they skittered in front of us, half out of the water...The fish were as big as men...I remember the din, the thunder of falling water, and their frantic thrashing. They darted to the corners of the net, but there was no way out...when the thrashing calmed they were battered, bleeding and floating on their sides, but they were still alive...this killing went on for an hour, the blue square turned red. When the last fish was taken the currents cleared the square of the blood and milky water that clouded it.&quot; Not exactly a practice that has much to recommend it. Even if you wished to take a principled stand and say 'I can't pass judgement on other peoples cultural practices,' the book sets itself up for just this sort of criticism where, after the Mattanza, Maggio says &quot;the tourists...were towed back to port.&quot; Now we see the reality. This ancient traditional cultural practice, steeped in religious symbolism, is not so precious afterall. It has allowed itself to be bastardized into a blood-sport tourist attraction in order to make a few dollars. This admission, and the failure of Maggio to contrast the traditional practices with even more exploitative, modern commercial fishing activities, leaves the spotlight firmly on MATTANZA; and unfortunately for the book wheras the writing style shines, the cultural practice it describes does not.	2001-08-20
US	50452306	R318Y6REJ19A8T	1586480405	585261139	Free Flight: From Airline Hell to a New Age of Travel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Flights of the imagination	Set against the authors account of an enjoyable flight across the states in his Cirrus SR20 private plane, FREE FLIGHT has captured the imagination of general aviation pilots by offering a vision of what we dream of - the dawning of a new age in aviation with new technologies and designs bringing about better, more comfortable, and safer private planes. The book appeals to a broader audience than the thousands of us that are private pilots and small plane aficionados; it is for the millions of us who have, at some time, experienced &quot;airline hell.&quot; We know this purgatory: long commutes to airports, endless check-in lines, frequent delays at the terminal or waiting on the taxiways. The author asks &quot;how can a system be so technically advanced and admirable, yet lead to results so unpleasant for everyone?&quot; The reason is the hub-and-spoke system operated by commercial airlines with the large carriers delivering passengers to big-city terminals and smaller commuter airlines serving the spoke routes to smaller cities. The book reveals that for many years now air traffic has grown nearly twice as fast as the economy, yet at the same time the large carriers have reduced the number of cities they serve, from over 450 in the late 1970's to 268 in 1998. The solution, the author says, is with &quot;air-taxis&quot; and affordable private planes, operating from the many secondary airports scattered across the country. Fully 98% of us live within a 30 minute drive of one of these public use airports and in the near future we may be able to hop on an air taxi or fly ourselves to our destination. <br />Two companies that are betting on this future are mentioned in the book. Eclipse makes a small, 5-8 seat, twin-jet, commuter plane that will travel at 375 mph; more importantly it will cost about $1 million, a quarter of the cost of the typical corporate jet. Cirrus Designs makes 5 seater, single engined, piston driven GA plane that is more comfortable, better designed, and safer than the existing Cessna's, and Beech's. On the matter of safety, Cirrus is unique. The SR series employs an aircraft parachute that in an extreme emergency can be deployed to allow the plane to safely float to a landing. Look at the illustration on the cover of the book - that's not some imaginary device - parachute-assisted aircraft landings now exist. <br />Where the book does drift towards flights of the imagination though is in how soon this new dawn for general aviation will become a reality. The majority of US air travel is in flights of 500 miles or less - the very market that these two innovative planes are designed to serve - yet it remains a bumpy flight to the day when we become a nation of liberated air travellers hopping on air-taxis or flying about our business in our own planes. Case in point: given the choice between flying into Barnstable Municipal and a 20 minute drive home, compared with a 2 hour drive to Logan (and a possible delay), it's a no-brainer that I would choose the former. But wait a minute. If it's going to cost me about 40% more than an airline coach fare to fly an air-taxi, or 25-50 cents more per mile if I fly myself, I might not be doing it too often. There is a market in the business community though, with companies seeing time saved as worth the extra cost, but there's another consideration. To arrive at this day of democracy in air travel - the FREE FLIGHT implied in the books title - we would have seen GA move from the current 37 million take offs and landings per year to about 500 million a year at the 5,000 plus secondary airports across the country. That's a whole lot of additional flights. Where are the tens of thousands of new pilots going to come from?  <br />FREE FLIGHT is well written and it's an enjoyable read about the joys of flying small planes; it's also an interesting insight into some innovative designs in  general aviation planes. As a serious argument about the imminent arrival of a new age in air travel, the author reaches a bit. Nevertheless you'll be quite happy to go with him on this flight of the imagination.	2001-08-19
US	50452306	R19S2HXI4FIZG6	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Breathing  new life into dead capital...	...and it is also fair to say, bringing death to old, trite economic theories on poverty and blinkered, narrow, views about the Third World. THE MYSTERY OF CAPITAL has bolstered De Soto's reputation as an original and independent thinker on the causes of Third World poverty. This book  was endorsed by Margaret Thatcher, Milton Friedman and the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) for its whole hearted support of the market economy. Lest anyone mistakenly think that as a Third world economist, he is slavishly, and typically, tied to the theory that poverty is due solely to colonialism and exploitation, and that he hankers for the good old days of socialism and economic revolutions; De Soto says plainly that &quot;capitalism stands alone as the only feasible way to rationally organize a modern economy.&quot; The premise of this book then is based on a committment to the conservative, pro-market, open economic system that has long been the mantra of the West. This is in fact part of the mystery. How is it then, De Soto asks, that having adopted capitalism and pursued it with vigor and enthusiasm, the Third World nevertheless still remains poor. In identifying a cause De Soto disagrees with many of his conservative colleagues and we see his independent thinking. Many argue (David Landes, Samuel Huntington and Thomas Sowell for instance) that culture and religion play predominant roles in keeping the poor poor. De Soto says &quot;I humbly suggest that before any brahmin who lives in a bell jar tries to convince us that succeeding at capitalism requires certain cultural traits, we should first try to see what happens when developing and former communist countries establish property rights systems that can create capital for every one.&quot; In dismissing the &quot;culture is key&quot; school of thought, De Soto puts forward his own theory. Property rights, and in particular, the ownership of capital, is the critical missing ingedient in the Third World.<br />De Soto carefully lays out his argument with facts and figures. There is an estimated $9.3 trillion in capital potentially available in the Third World. The problem is that it is unowned. The poor have no legal title to the land and their homes, so they remain unable to use it as collateral. The poor exist in the informal economy and as such can not enter into any legal contracts with the mainstream economy. For the poor, their capital is dead. <br />De Soto illustrates this with examples from the informal economies of his native Peru, Egypt and Haiti and develops on the point by comparing this situation with the early days of land settlement in the US when there were no property rights in existence. It is here where his argument falters slightly, because although property rights were not yet in existence in the US, small farmers and land holders were nevertheless able to secure credit. The US government accomodated early settlers. In the Third World De Soto shows the opposite is true and argues that governments and their bureaucracies are major impediments. This argument certainly puts him back in good stead with  Western conservative thinking on the virtues of small government, but as a blanket approach to the Third World, it is a bit simplistic. Unfettered markets can certainly solve most economic problems, but they are not the panacea to all that ails the Third World. <br />This book is a good read and an interesting examination of the informal economy in the Third World with a very original economic theory thrown in. It however probably remains impractical and impossible to implement. Who owns the land and how would the sale and redistribution be achieved? Further, any book that proposes a single solution to the intractable problem of global poverty has to be regarded as theoetical and does not really offer the answer.	2001-08-01
US	50452306	R2SFGMW9DKR2HB	1557506639	143699467	No Surrender: My Thirty-Year War	Books	4	67	69	N	N	&quot;Survivor&quot;, for real!	I remember this as a news story in 1974; a Japanese soldier emerging from the jungles of the Philippines after finally realizing that WWII was over. I recall thinking 'he must be crazy'. NO SURRENDER shows it's not so. This is the true story of 2nd Lt Hiroo Onoda, who, on orders from his commanding officer retreated with a small band of men into the jungle to carry out guerilla attacks against returning American troops and the Filipinos. He was to stay alive and await reinforcements.<br />He didn't know when WWII ended and every attempt by Americans, locals, and even friends and familiy from Japan, to get him to come out was seen as a trap by Onoda. Only when his orders were specifically rescinded, did he emerge. Over the years his skills in evading and surviving were honed to a edge.<br />For humanists this is a positive message and a remarkable tale about the ability of the human spirit to endure great hardships for the sake of beliefs and duty. Less positive, from a mental health perspective, the book is a startling illustration of the power of the mind to program itself to shut out all messages and signals it does not wish to receive.	2001-07-17
US	50452306	R3X1CHB3BD6S5	0140157344	335507424	At Dawn We Slept: The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Timely re-issue	This book and its follow up have both been re-issued this year; well timed but I don't think it's coincidental. There has been a lot of recent interest in Pearl Harbor, and as night follows day, that means historians are going to be revisiting the tragedy. Conspiracy theories started on the day after Pearl Harbor and they're still with us. <br />Two of the conspiracy theory groups are &quot;Roosevelt revisionists&quot; and the &quot;intelligence/codes/secrets&quot; school of thought. The first set focus less on military operations but moreso on FDR. THE NEW DEALERS WAR being a recently released case in point. While the substantive work may be a legitimate reinterprative biography that looks at FDR's performance as president, these authors invariably see complicity on his part in either deliberately provoking Japan, or witholding information. Information is the link with the second group who say intelligence information, specifically the withholding of it from key people, is the source of the tragedy. DAY OF DECEIT is a recent example. <br />All this is necessary preamble to AT DAWN WE SLEPT because this book is as thorough with its research as any other, and long ago tackled and then disproved, not just these, but all other conspiracy theories. This book, originally published in 1981, can only be re-issued not updated as Gordon Prange died in the 1980's. The fact that newly declassified intelligence intercepts have been made available does not affect the soundness of the books argument and its only a pity that Prange is not around to give his interpretation. <br />One of the main points of this book is that the conspiracy theories, by focusing on American sources of the tragedy, totally discount and diminish the role of the Japanese, and this book clearly shows what an error that is. Mr Prange argues that the Japanese were too headstrong to be manipulated and used as would be required in such an eloborate conspiracy. Furthermore the idea for the attack on Pearl Harbor originated with Adm. Yamamoto. Perhaps most damaging to a conspiracy is Prange's conclusion that even if intelligence messages had been acted on by us, and the Japanese had lost the element of surprise, they would have fought through the resistance, absorbed losses, and pressed home the attack. He convincingly argues that they anticipated losses.  Prange knows this because his is one of the few books to have relied heavily on interviews with many of the surviving Japanese participants.<br />The arguments and analysis in this book are sound; other books may be more entertaining and better written but few are as thorough.	2001-07-16
US	50452306	R282QVH1T8W0MR	0674001591	695611521	The Triple Helix: Gene, Organism, and Environment	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A triple knot for 'popular genetics'	Like everything else in life why should the reading of the Human Genome remain free discussion and debate on its merits and its false promises? THE TRIPLE HELIX like another recent book in the same vein - THE CENTURY OF THE GENE, - take it as their duty to throw cold water on all the happy gene talk in recent popular science books.  <br />The Human Genome Project is not the primary target for criticism here; what Mr Lewontin objects to is the simplified approach of popular biology that insists on treating genes, organisms, and environments as distinctly seperate. Instead &quot;taken together, the relations of genes, organisms, and environment are reciprocal relations in which all three elements are both cause and effects. Genes and environment are both causes of organisms, which are, in turn, causes of environments, so that genes become causes of environments as mediated by the organism.&quot; Quite plainly he says that organisms alter, modify, or in some cases create, their environments. Therefore in the great either/or debate on nature versus nurture, Mr Lewontin would argue it's neither/nor.<br />Taking neither side of the debate may lead one to believe that Mr Lewontin is then a supporter of a new theory, or an advocate of a new approach to determining biological truths. Not so. &quot;It is not new principles that we need but a willingness to accept the consequences of the fact that biological systems occupy a different region of the space of physical relations than do simpler physico-chemical systems...that is, organisms are internally heterogeneous open systems.&quot; <br />General readers can manage the book because Mr Lewontin writes well, and in being critical, he takes time to explain his views. He's a leftist so he hits out at the usual targets, but he's also an independent thinker so sacred subjects of the left such as conservationism and protecting the environment also get a bit of stick. He believes that environments exist only with reference to the animals and plants that inhabit them, and furthermore, an environment can not be held in an unchanging state. <br />I enjoy reading some of the popular biology books that Mr Lewontin criticizes and his views on some of my pet subjects made me sit up. You need thick skin when reading Mr Lewontin but there are few better to learn from.	2001-07-16
US	50452306	R3SH470J1E1NK	0767904478	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The invasion of the wine snatchers	Very early in WINE &amp; WAR we are given a description of the bucolic and pastoral life that French winegrowers enjoyed. It was a life &quot;of legend and myth, a life which, in many ways, had changed little since the middle ages...plowing was done with horses. Planting, picking, and pruning were done according to the phases of the moon. Older people often reminded younger ones that the merits of pruning were discovered when St.Martin's donkey got loose in the vineyards.&quot; The authors have woven together winegrowers tales, geography, viticulture science and French culture to give us a very enjoyable history of &quot;the kingdom of wine&quot; during WWII.<br />Winemaking had a history of troubles even before the war. Phylloxera, an insect that attacked the vines roots, nearly wiped out the industry in the mid 19th century; the Depression followed and then destruction from the trench warfare and artillery barrages of the &quot;Great War&quot;. The book reveals an interesting fact about assistance America provided. We know the French are grateful for our fighting on the battlefields during both wars, but some help is probably still a bit hard to swallow. During the Phylloxera blight &quot;the remedy was something totally un-French. Growers discovered that by grafting their vines onto American rootstocks, which were naturally resistant to the root eating louse, they could save them.&quot; Lest this fact cause us to swell with pride, the authors tell a humorous story of sacrilege committed by an American Colonel, sufficient to embarrass wine lovers everywhere. After an Allied operation near the Rhone river, the French, in gratitude presented some of Burgundy's finest wines to the Americans. Being naturally hospitable we invited French soldiers and their General to share. The &quot;waiters marched in bearing the bottles on silver trays [the bottles] were bubbling gently&quot;; the Colonel had ordered the wine be served hot, heating it with medical alcohol. The authors say that the French General &quot;faced with the greatest crisis so far in Franco-American relations&quot; nevertheless drained his glass but &quot;murmured, 'Liberation, liberation, what crimes have been commited in thy name!'&quot;. <br />Humorous anecdotes and tales of bizarre behavior are scattered throughout and are used to show how the French had an all consuming passion for preserving their national treasure. The account of Operation Anvil is a perfect example. French and American troops were to attack from southern France, through the Rhone Valley and Burgundy, and link up with the Allies pushing out from Normandy. The operation was frought with delays. Perhaps its unofficial name offers an explanation. The Champagne Campaign went through parts of France renown for food, drink, scenery, and entertainment. Some strategic decisions also played a role. French General Monsabert (the same one who suffered the hot libation for liberation's sake) ensured that no more crimes were committed. He planned some attacks and it was no coincidence that the French &quot;advanced up the western side of the Rhone, where the best vineyards were planted. The Americans went up the other side, where the lesser growths were.&quot; The French seriousness about their wine is highlighted by the fact that an intelligence Colonel delayed an attack on the Cote d'Or or the Golden Escarpment - the site of Burgundy's best vineyards - until he received a report that &quot;we have found the weak point[s] in the German defenses. Every one is on a vineyard of inferior quality.&quot; <br />There were other threats that were not military. Economic crimes were committed that were perhaps even a greater disaster to winemaking. The book tells about the Weinfuhrers; former German businessmen, who, knowing the wine industry, were commissioned into the Army and sent to France for the sole purpose of administering the shipment of wine to Germany. They operated from Bordeaux, Burgundy and Champagne. There are chapters describing the massive shipments of wine to Germany, and how the French responded by hiding the best vintages, and fobbing off lesser quality wines. This section of the book deals with the intriguing economics of the business. Economic conditions grew worse as the war turned against Germany. More and more was demanded from France: wine, food, farm horses, metals, supplies, and eventually men to work in Germany. The French turned on the Vichy government, president Petain and prime minister Laval and also began actively resisting Germany. The French Resistance, there from the beginning, became popular by 1943 following the setting up of the Service du Travail Obligatore (STO), a program of forced labor where men were sent to work in German industry. Germany also began using wine as a solvent and as industrial alcohol. To ensure that it was not sold or drunk, heating oil was added; this spoilt it for human consumption, but more than anything else, enraged the French. <br />WINE &amp; WAR is well written and offers a unique look at France during WWII. It will be of interest to history buffs, fans of WWII military exploits, readers who don't mind economics and geography, and of course, wine lovers.	2001-07-15
US	50452306	R24OMKTHWGRXF5	0375501991	904191321	The New Geography: How the Digital Revolution Is Reshaping the American Landscape	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The new economy + new urbanism = new geography	You've heard it said that location is everything. City planning, urban geography, explanations of agricultural patterns, and the theory of industrial location all owe their existence to German geographers who were the pioneers of location theory; men such as von Thunen, Weber and Christaller. Edward Ullman introduced the concept of central-place theory to the US before WWII. The idea then has a long history of explaining the way things are.<br />All that will come to an end if it's up to Joel Kotkin. He sees the new economy with its emphasis on communication and technology as permanently seperating us from our dependance on place. This isn't revolutionary, or even a new idea. The belief that technology is more important than any physical space or location has long been the mantra of the netheads of the new economy. What else are we doing but proving the reality of this when we submit and read reviews at Amazon, and participate in a community that only exists in cyberspace?  <br />Where THE NEW GEOGRAPHY truly breaks new ground is in the argument that the information economy has two &quot;faces&quot;. These involve different processes and business that are beneficial to the &quot;self-contained high-end suburds&quot; or &quot;nerdistans&quot; but also, and very importantly, other elements have &quot;taken on a decidedly  more urban cast.&quot; It's a fairly good book that will be enjoyable to those with interests in geography, urbanism, and technology; it's therefore broad enough but unfortunately not deep enough to really satisfy all.	2001-07-13
US	50452306	R3VS9R494WJXTZ	0375700773	203371491	The Last Campaign: How Harry Truman Won the 1948 Election	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Campaign Management 101	Truman's 1948 &quot;Give'em Hell, Harry&quot; campaign is legendary and the stuff of legions of books. Most political science students and history buffs generally regard it as the best presidential campaign in our history for a variety of reasons:<br />&gt; Truman's come-back from certain defeat was unprecedented.<br />&gt; Never, either before or since 1948, has the science of political polling and the views of opinion makers been so far off the mark, nor so scrutinized as a consequence.<br />&gt; The ideological positions were varied. In addition to the liberal positions of Truman and the conservative platform of Dewey you had the more extreme states-rights, anti civil rights, posturing of the Dixiecrat Strom Thurmond, and the left of left views of Progressive Henry A Wallace. <br />All these points are ably developed on in THE LAST CAMPAIGN and there are also sufficient biographical sketches of the four political players. The book offers a different spin though by casting these events as a &quot;last campaign&quot; in terms of it being a watershed political environment. &quot;For the last time in this century, an entire spectrum of ideologies was represented in the presidential election.&quot; While this may be true in terms of there being four different ideological positions, the author contradicts this view somewhat by showing that not only did positions shift - with Truman moving further left - but also, the extreme views on offer were in fact more rhetoric than reality.<br />As to why this makes this the &quot;last campaign&quot;, the explanation offered by the author is that television quickly intruded into, and then took over the operations of political campaigns, and has rendered all campaigns since as stage managed performances that are exquisitely boring.<br />The book is well written and it brings the men of the moment and the times alive. The argument offered is interesting and well developed. The only problem is that it's just not that big a premise to build a book on. TV can certainly be blamed for a lot that is wrong with our culture today, but nostalgia for a simpler America is an insufficient foundation on which to make a case for the importance of THE LAST CAMPAIGN. Enjoy the book for what it is: a riveting read about the intricacies of a political campaign the likes of which we are unlikely to ever see again.	2001-07-12
US	50452306	R12E8RC285T00T	0671869205	680068737	Truman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	&quot;Being a President is like riding a Tiger...	...a man has to keep on riding or be swallowed.&quot; So said Harry S Truman. He should know. After only a few months as vice president, he seemed by all accounts, to be totally unprepared and overawed on the occasion of being named our 33rd president, upon the death of FDR in April 1945. His quote about the presidency being like riding a tiger seemed to confirm this. The &quot;accidental president&quot; had a lot to prove. It would be poetic justice to say that he went on to be a popular president, but truth, like reality, is seldom so romantic. Except for short periods, Harry S Truman, throughout his two terms as president, was always extremely unpopular.<br />It has been left to posterity and admirers like David McCullough to restate the case - as he does in TRUMAN - that the man was &quot;a figure of world stature, both a great and good man, and a great American President.&quot; <br />Is it a legitimate claim?; can we reconcile this with the young man who was a political unknown until he received backing for Senator from the Kansas City political machine? Indeed it doesn't even appear as if Truman had much political ambition as the book shows that he worked at not being chosen as FDR's running mate. That he was chosen was then less his own doing, and certainly not because he was popular, but due more to political expediency. Truman becoming president Mr McCullough says, can be seen in this light: &quot;it had been the system of politics, the boss system, that counted in deciding his fate.&quot; <br />Given this background and less that convincing qualifications for the highest office, it is a tribute to Truman, and an amazing feat of Mr McCullough, that this book convincingly shows just how effective a president Truman was. The adroitness with which Truman handled the tricky domestic and international political events of the period shows that he very quickly learned how to ride a Tiger.<br />&quot;A well written Life is almost as rare as a well-spent one&quot; (Thomas Carlyle)	2001-07-11
US	50452306	R23HIPVAFDUC0M	0465024645	204466372	The New Dealers' War: Fdr And The War Within World War Ii	Books	3	12	21	N	N	Revisionism for its own sake	There is no doubting that Thomas Fleming is a thorough historian with all the necessary qualifying criteria - good research, valid sources, critical acceptance by colleagues. Nevertheless any author that is promoted by his publisher as revisionist and controversial is always under pressure to prove it. With THE NEW DEALERS WAR Mr Fleming certainly goes about living up to the billing with gusto; the individual and historical role that is revisited with zeal is Franklyn D Roosevelt and his third term, specifically his leadership just prior to our entry into WWII. <br />I certainly don't prefer hagiography as a form of biography but the problem with this revisionist portrait is this: just as worshipful analyses look at only one dimension of a person, this book also offers only a limited perspective. While the portrait that emerges here is true and shows FDR as a terminally ill, fumbling, and sometimes cynically political man, it is still only one dimensional. By focusing on FDR's third term, Mr Fleming completely ignores the innovative, motivational and inspirational person that FDR was in his earlier terms. This book is well written, thoroughly researched and certainly offers a new perspective on FDR. Read it certainly but then don't stop there, read another. A balanced analysis still remains the best biographical methodology.	2001-07-10
US	50452306	RC3BK6V2JZTOC	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Your choice: historical accuracy or an enjoyable read	If you want a historical account that is absolutely factual your best best is something other than CITIZEN SOLDIERS. It's not that Mr Ambrose is a poor historian or that he doesn't do research; it's that the scope of this book is broad and so many battles are covered, that he gets some details wrong. Military historians, WWII vets, and even family members of servicemen (who have heard their parents stories many times over) can, and will find, specific events of historical bloopers. A couple that I and other reviewers have caught is the books claim that the German Panther tank was armed with an 88mm gun; not so. The 88mm as a flak gun was definitely there though during Operation Market Garden, and contrary to the book, so was the Luftwaffe. The C-47 &quot;Vomit Comet&quot; lived up to its nickname that day; at least that's a story I heard growing up. I am certainly more inclined to go with personal recollections from a family member, and be influenced by other reviewers, who unlike me, were there. Enough with the nitpicking though because a few errors do not spoil the whole book and CITIZEN SOLDIERS is very effective with what it wants to achieve - to pay tribute to the men and women who served, fought, and survived WWII. Indeed Mr Ambrose, in explaining his use of personal histories, diaries, and stories, that make his books so readable says it best himself: &quot;Long ago my mentors...taught me to let my characters speak for themselves by quoting them liberally. They were there. I wasn't.&quot; <br />Mr Ambrose divides the book into 4 sections: 'The Battle for France', 'At the German Border', 'Life in the ETO' and 'Overrunning Germany'. The chapters within do a good job of providing a detailed and illuminating look at all aspects of America's war in Europe from D-Day (June 6th, 1944) up until VE Day on May 7th, 1945. A tribute it is, but it remains balanced. This is no jingoistic, flag waving rag of a book. Mr Ambrose does not shy away from shining a light on someof the darker episodes of the war. Failures of judgement, even by his hero, Gen. Dwight Eisenhower are mentioned, as are wasteful and poorly planned operations - Market Garden - being a prime example. The sad irony of the US fighting a racist dictatorship - with a segregated army - is not lost on the author. Along these lines he looks at morale, treatment, and conditions of blacks, women, prisoners, and deserters. <br />All told it is an illuminating book and a good example of why the use of personal stories and oral histories - which gives us all a first person experience of what it was like - have made books by Stephen Ambrose so readable. He's the master of his own genre - popular WWII history.	2001-07-06
US	50452306	R1G90ZNZL79W84	0385334621	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Read a collection of personal letters or essays instead	There is no doubting Tom Brokaw's sincerity and deep feelings of respect for the WWII generation. It comes through with comments such as the following:<br />&gt;  &quot;It is a generation of towering achievement and modest demeanor, a legacy of their formative years when they were participants in and witness to sacrifices of the highest order.&quot;<br />&gt;  &quot;It is a generation that, by and large, made no demands of homage from those who followed and prospered economically, politically, and culturally because of its sacrifices.&quot;<br />&gt;  &quot;There is a common theme of pride in all that they've accomplished for themselves, their families and their country, and so little clamor for attention, given all they've done.&quot;<br />Agreed, endorsed, and fully appreciated by many of us. I'm no different with a father who ferried paratroops to Normandy in his C-47 &quot;vomit comet&quot; and made cargo hauls to Belgium after that, and a mother who worked in a naval ordinance factory in Glasgow, Scotland. Respect and admiration however is insufficient to get us through 50 fairly repetitive stories. <br />I agree with Mr Brokaw when he says they were proud but &quot;they rarely discussed their experiences, even with each other&quot;; give him credit for getting so many stories out. The reality remains though that the war stories and experiences of our parent's generation may be of great interest to family, but as general readers, we will learn more and are better served by reading a collection of war letters or essays by good historians.	2001-07-05
US	50452306	RTEKOVPFUO6ZE	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Stalingrad Gefallen?&quot;, the answer is &quot;Nyet!&quot;	There are some interesting details about this mammoth battle revealed in this journalistic re-telling by Antony Beevor. STALINGRAD was such a huge battle in terms of men committed, casualties, length of engagement, and most significantly - impact. It is generally regarded as the turning point of the war for Germany - psychologically - if not materially. After the encirclement and capture of the German Sixth Army, there was a growing belief that the war could not be won, but also the beginning of disillusionment with Hitler. <br />Some of the more interesting details that color this narrative are the emphasis on Stalingrad as a &quot;rassenkampf&quot; or race war, the Russian obsession with snipers, the many &quot;Hilfswillige&quot; or Russian volunteers that fought for Germany, and the behavior of the soldiers of both sides. Drawing on official reports and personal letters this account is more about the experiences of the soldiers and focuses on elements such as: Commanders and officers, the battleground, the conditions, morale, supplies, German and Russian culture, and of course Hitler and Stalin.<br />While the strategic significance of the battle is highlighted, military history buffs may be a little disappointed with the actual description of the battles, as it is a bit muddled. Perhaps it's the scope of the fighting and the length of the campaign that causes this, but you have to occasionally re-read some sections that refer to units, and refer to the maps to keep a track of the unfolding battle.<br />A German and Soviet Order of Battle at the back helps a little by listing the major units that comprised the Sixth Army and those of the Red Army on the Stalingrad Front.<br />The photographs, although few in number certainly give a good feel for the difficulties of fighting in the bitter cold and the grimness of house to house warfare.	2001-07-05
US	50452306	R3M4YA82TX04FL	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	"Swims with its mouth open and swallows whatever will fit"	That description of the cod by Mark Kurlansky is not exactly a ringing endorsement; still it's better than what is said of us. Man is \\"an open-mouthed species even greedier than cod.\\" COD goes on to prove this point by telling the history of this fish. The author looks at the best days of the cod fishing industry - between the 16th and 18th centuries when 60% of all fish eaten in Europe was cod - to the current situation where fishing ports such as Gloucester, Mass., are nothing near what they used to be. Indeed by the time of the Revolution, \\"in the minds of its most hard line revolutionaries, the New England radicals\\", the cod-fishing industry, according to Mr Kurlansky, had made the Revolution as much about making money as it was about political freedom. He goes on to say that \\"one of the greatest obstacles to restoring cod stocks off of Newfoundland is an almost pathological collective denial of what has happened.\\"<br><br>The history goes back even further, to the f!irst century AD when the Vikings set sail from Norway through Iceland, to Greenland, Canada, and perhaps New England. It's not a coincidence that this is the exact range of cod, nor is it surprising that after the Vikings, the Basques became well known as cod fishers. We see the beginnings of Mr Kurlansky's admiration for these intrepid sailors from the Iberian peninsula; an interest that led him to write THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD. <br><br>It's only fitting that such a quirky fish would produce historical anomalies such as the fact that in one of the places named for it - Cape Cod - nowadays you will be hard pressed to find any sign of its past. Also reconcile how cod, which, unlike man has never traveled to the Caribbean, has nevertheless become the main part of Jamaica's delicious national dish - ackee and saltfish. Speaking of food; Mr Kurlansky, in making his book as odd as cod, and as interesting as its history, throws in some recipes that you can try for yourself.	2001-07-03
US	50452306	RKJ6SWLEOZLQP	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	3	6	11	N	N	&quot;Internal agility to generate multiple versions of truth&quot;	Like most readers of books I also read newspapers and am stunned by the recent revelations by THE BOSTON GLOBE about Joseph Ellis's fabricated Vietnam service record. What could be more damaging for a historian than to be shown up as someone who disrespects truth?; that's what Mr Ellis has done with his false lifestory. I thoroughly enjoyed and learned a lot from FOUNDING FATHERS, but all of this has, for me, refreshed a perception of Jefferson that I came away with from AMERICAN SPHINX; and made me re-read sections until I found what I was looking for - irony abounds. <br />AMERICAN SPHINX is more a detailed character sketch of Jefferson the man, than it is a detailed account of the history of his life as president. Mr Ellis therefore shines a new light on some of the contradictory aspects of Jefferson's character. How could a man who spoke and wrote so eloquently about freedom, keep slaves?; How to reconcile his advocacy of government austerity with his personal extravagance?. Mr Ellis says that Jefferson was &quot;always a controversial figure who combined great depth with great shallowness, massive learning with extraordinary naivete, piercing insight into others with daunting powers of self-deception.&quot; Mr Ellis is an excellent writer and this book is full of such penetrating insights. Another is that Jefferson edited some of his earlier correspondences in order &quot;to convince posterity that his affection for France had not blinded him to the possibility of unparalled violence.&quot; There were other examples of less than perfect behavior; all of which Mr Ellis says can be explained by looking at it as &quot;the deep deviousness only possible in a dedicated idealist.&quot;<br />Then I found the quotation from the book I was looking for. This deviousness of the idealist came from Jefferson's practice as a young man of making &quot;interior worlds of great imaginative appeal that inevitably collided with the more mundane realities&quot;. It provided Jefferson, Mr Ellis says, with &quot;the internal ability to generate multiple versions of the truth&quot;. Who else?, I wonder. Didn't Mr Ellis, in writing these words, not pause and reflect on his own situation?<br />AMERICAN SPHINX is a balanced account of the character of Jefferson. It is well researched and well written, it's just that I doubt anyone reading it now, can't help but think more about Joseph Ellis and his character, rather than Thomas Jefferson.	2001-07-03
US	50452306	R3KN8G862PXRI3	0192853694	82357597	London: A History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Location is everything	How else to explain how the ancient Roman market village of Londinium, no more than 1 square mile in size at its maximum, eventually came to be one of the major finance, insurance, publishing, and cultural centers in the world. LONDON: A HISTORY is just that, tracing the development of the city from the Romans through the millennia to today. The author even offers his views as to what the future holds for London. From someone who says that of all the cities founded by the Romans, &quot;only Paris, Constantinople (Istanbul) and Rome can stand comparison with London&quot;, you can therefore expect that he sees a fairly bright future.<br />Wheras the history of London can hardly be matched by other cities, even in modern times the city stands up favorably. In making modern comparisons with US cities such as Washington DC and New York, the author points out, that nothwithstanding the lack of a skyscraper skyline like the Big Apple, and the monuments of the nations capital, London still has economic and cultural clout to match these cities. <br />This book is written by a Londoner and one who obviously loves his city and for that we should be glad because it makes for some very interesting insights. The author is also an academic and for that we suffer a bit as his writing style is very dry. The book however is so full of what is worth knowing about all aspects of London life and culture, that it's certainly worth plowing through.	2001-07-02
US	50452306	R3KR5U04Q8X7DZ	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	4	23	26	N	N	How a seed, bulb, tuber and weed conspired to rule the world	Is that plant waving its leaf at me to come over there?! No, It can't be!, but after reading the BOTANY OF DESIRE don't be too surprised if that thought doesn't flit across your mind too; and no, you don't have to be under the influence of one of the plants Michael Pollan talks about to think like this. Our view of plants as the passive partner in the long coevolutionary life they have shared with man is a paradigm that this book seeks to shatter. &quot;We automatically think of domestication as something we do to other species&quot;, says Mr Pollan &quot;but it makes just as much sense to think of it as something certain plants and animals have done to us.&quot; The title of the book hints at this underlying premise. It is made clear very quickly that Mr Pollan believes that you can't understand certain human desires and behavior without first appreciating the plant world and its interrelationship with ours.<br />Thus he divides his book into four parts, each dealing with a specific plant and a human desire: apples and sweetness, the tulip and beauty, cannabis and intoxication and lastly, the common potato and believe it or not, the desire for control. This book is a mix of fascinating history, approachable science, philosophical whimsy, humorous insights into nature, and simply good writing. <br />The history of the tulip is well told. From its development by the Ottoman turks through to the period of &quot;tulipomania&quot; that saw it achieve &quot;world domination&quot; in its appeal to humans, but ironically at the same time contributing to a sort of madness that gripped the Dutch, and brought about economic ruin in 17th century Holland. The history of the cannabis plant is also very interesting as are the authors comments on the drug war, specifically how it has simply sent growers indoors where a much more potent hybrid has been developed. If you look at the world from the plant's view as Mr Pollan tries to do throughout, you would simply say that this was probably planned by the cannabis plant in the first place!<br />The best expression of this plant view of the world is provided by the following example. Even where we know that we were the active agent, in control, the domesticator, and have brought nature and plants under our thumb through agriculture, Mr Pollan says &quot;it makes just as much sense to think of agriculture as something the grasses did to people as a way to conquer the trees.&quot; <br />Enjoy this fascinating bit of history, evolutionary biology, nature writing, and pure good fun, and...what is that plant over there doing?	2001-07-02
US	50452306	R3SS86DDNADBGG	0865475296	516932690	Genes, Peoples, and Languages	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Genes, People, &amp; Languages, not Race, Culture, or Politics	It's difficult to review a book by Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza, not because he's obtuse and overly technical - in fact his writing is very readable by non biologists - but because of the fact that this pioneer in population genetics has so much to say about so many fields in modern science drawing from a lifetime of experiences in the field. This is particularly true of GENES, PEOPLES, AND LANGUAGES which is based on lectures that summarize his lifework and theories. The man delves into biology, anthropology, lingustics, statistics, serology, evolution, and of course, genetics. He touches on culture, race, religion, and language; he has theories about human origins, migrations, adaptations, and the switch from hunter gatherers to agriculture. In short in the field of science, when Cavalli-Sforza writes or speaks, people tend to listen and read. We don't necessarily always agree with him, but we'll get to that in a minute.<br />From the early 1950's Cavalli-Sforza says he wondered &quot;whether it was possible to reconstruct the history of human evolution using genetic data from living populations.&quot; This epiphany is significant for two reasons. Firstly that he followed up on it and obtained sufficient blood samples and has compiled a massive data base of human genetic data, is incredible in its own right. Secondly it is such a paradigm shift in the way science has studied human evolution and history. No longer were researchers restricted to the slim pickings from archaelogy, anthropology and history, namely: relics, human bones, and ancient documents. Cavalli-Sforza has made three major contributions to science using his genetic data on human migrations: (1) he was one of the first scientists to develop an &quot;evolutionary tree&quot; of human origins (2) he susequently mapped our migrations and (3) he showed that agriculture was transmitted around the world, not by transfer of cultural traits, but by movement of actual people.<br />More than half (4 out of 6 chapters) of GENES, PEOPLES AND LANGUAGES is devoted to looking at human population genetics. There are two other chapters; one each on the relationship between genes and language and the influence of genetics on cultural evolution. These last two chapters although interesting in their own right don't flow with the rest of the book, nor are they as well written; they could definitely have done with more editing.<br />Back to the first 4 chapters and my earlier point that some people disagree with Cavalli-Sforza's opinions. He is a major proponent of the view that there is no biological basis for human races. He would definitely be one who would quote the oft heard refrain that &quot;race is only skin deep&quot;, and he provides a wealth of genetic data to prove this point. Race however is a lot deeper than skin, it is in the bones. Ask most anthropologists who deal with the human skeleton, or a forensic expert, and they will probably agree that they can differentiate between races. But wait, ask any biologist who looks at humans through a microscope and studies blood, and they will admit they have no idea what race they're looking at. This difficulty in arriving at a definitive statement on the reality of races is just one of the many debates in science. Cavalli-Sforza's opinion is just that - his view. The same is true for his support for the linear descent of human evolution, or the &quot;African Eve&quot; theory, which argues that we can all supposedly trace our beginnings to a single female hominid. The differences between anthroplogists known as &quot;splitters&quot; and &quot;lumpers&quot; is what you'll have to refer to in order to sort out that debate. Also what about Cavalli-Sforza's view that only cultural evolution is now taking place in mankind; contrast this with those who say human evolution is in fact speeding up.<br />All of this is housekeeping among biologists. Non biologists (myself included) need only be aware of these differences of opinion. This book is not argumentative, so it's not a polemic about race, culture, or politics. As a well written general introduction to some of the more interesting topics in human genetics, by someone universally recognized as a true pioneer in the field, this is a good place to start.	2001-07-02
US	50452306	R260J04THD2ESD	0684827476	849728786	The Future Once Happened Here	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Cause and effect, but what about solutions?	There is really not a lot that is contentious about the central argument in THE FUTURE ONCE HAPPENED HERE. The book looks at the fate of three once great American cities - New York, Los Angeles and Washington DC, and argues that their demise over the last few decades is a direct result of the following: After the urban riots of the 1960's the ruling liberal urban elites convinced  themselves that this anger was justified by the poverty of urban blacks. To ameliorate this situation they decided to create a vast social welfare system. This, Mr Siegel calls the &quot;riot idelogy&quot; and it is characterized by the replacement of a belief in personal responsibility with a philosophy of life that instills dependence on government. <br />Another reviewer rightly says that this concept of riot ideology is reminiscent of Edward Banfield and his cultural basis for urban behavior as argued in THE UNHEAVENLY CITY; I think the argument here is less focused on culture but more simply on discipline in economics and morals. It is certainly more plausible that what was offered by Banfield. The riot idelogy has caused an explosion in urban crime and a huge increase in government expenses, and concomitantly an increase in taxes; all of which have driven private industry out of the city and contributed to fiscal chaos. <br />This argument is not originally Mr Siegels', nor is it new; it however remains controversial. William Julius Wilson in THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED, years ago similarly argued that the liberal creators of the Great Society programs were wrong headed for believing that simply providing welfare programs would cause poverty to shrink; reduction of poverty is influenced much more by economic growth. Both authors in stressing the role of the economy have been heavily criticized by the left. Neither book however is partisan and Mr Siegel certainly is critical of conservative politicians, who with their anti-urban bias, use the inner city poor as whipping boys for the cultural forces that so scare suburban and rural voters. <br />While Mr Siegel is lucid and certainly vocal in ascribing blame, if there is a weakness in the book, it is with solutions. In contrast to THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED, Mr Siegel is rather silent on what to do about the inner city poor. Certainly fiscal and moral discipline, economic growth, and private sector initiatives are fine but that is broad based. At the individual level it still comes down to people. Hopefully Mr Siegel's silence here does not mean that in the end he supports the view that all that the poor need to do is change their culture and get a job. After all is said and done, the dire situation that the inner city poor still find themselves in requires government assistance; the debate is really about what forms and level this should be.	2001-07-01
US	50452306	R3GAJDNXUAZYZG	0743202945	481108438	War Letters: Extraordinary Correspondence from American Wars	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Letters that were never stamped 'Return to Sender'	There can hardly be anything more personal and poignant that WAR LETTERS. Love letters come close but the emotions that a person taps when remembering some buddy blown away, nights of fear from being under fire, or some family member far away, result in an outpouring of oneself onto paper that is the essence of humanity. The letters here run the gamut of human emotional expression: fear, anger, grief, joy, love, faith, hope, courage, humor. They are from every major war or engagement that the US has been in from the Civil War through to the Gulf War and finally Bosnia and Kosovo. Soldiers, their family members, journalists, doctors and nurses, all have something to say to someone else that suddenly seems very important in the shadow of war. <br />If you step back from the emotional impact for a moment and look at this book objectively, the the appeal of these letters and the willingness of the writers or recipients to make them public, may seem a bit puzzling. Afterall, they are all very personal letters. The mystery is removed when you realize that it's not a coincidence that these letters are singularly American; I doubt there would be such an equivalent public sharing from citizens elsewhere. Our openess is sometimes called American bravado and exhibitionism by others, but as these letters of humanity plainly show, they are more properly seen as simple testaments to honesty and truth.<br />I for one am proud of a country that appreciates such human expressions but am even more proud of the many men and women who served or waited for those who did, and whose stories are told here. They, more than most of us, can appreciate the following sentiments.<br />&quot;Everything that I have written is closely related to something that I have lived through.&quot; (Henrik Ibsen)	2001-07-01
US	50452306	R2KGU2PMY6RLEM	0151005524	28056719	America's Undeclared War: What's Killing Our Cities and How We Can Stop It	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The city under siege	First a fair warning to readers. Any author who is called an &quot;iconoclast&quot; by his or her publisher will feel obliged to live up to the billing. So it is here with Daniel Lazare in AMERICA'S UNDECLARED WAR. The title alone should give an indication that he's ready for battle. He uses some heavy caliber firepower, when in ascribing blame for the demise of cities and the concomitant growth in the &quot;culturally impoverished&quot; suburbs, he says the following about the government. &quot;The American system of limited government and fragmented political power allowed suburban communities to turn themselves into middle-class redoubts whose raison d'etre was to screen out blacks, Jews and anyone else deemed harmful to the municipal bottom line, while at the same time rendering cities powerless to fight back.&quot;<br />Criticizing the government though does not make one an iconoclast; it's taken as a duty, whatever your political perspective. Conservatives are critical of the Great Society social welfare programs of the 1960's which they say fostered dependency, bred crime, and raised expenses; liberals blame the same government for massive highway construction, subsidized home mortage loans, and promoting the automobile, all of which spurred suburban growth.<br />Where Mr Lazare starts to live up to his billing as an iconoclast is in the vehemence with which he slams suburbia and with whom he blames for the origins of what he calls our &quot;anti-urban bias&quot;. He says the decline of cities &quot;was not urban decay but a form of urban manslaughter in which a wide array of social policies came together in such a way as to reduce one city after another literally to rubble. A combination of federal tax breaks and direct government outlays fueled suburban development at the expense of the cities.&quot; Who was to blame? Try our founding fathers whom Mr Lazare calls &quot;a group of provincial politicians&quot;; specifically Thomas Jefferson who developed a &quot;concept of democracy as something intrinsically anti-urban.&quot; <br />The irony is that it is in the sections of the book where he is blasting away at the historical figures of the past - from Jefferson through to FDR - that he is also most interesting and comes up with a very original thesis. Mr Lazare states that there were two early settlement patters in colonial America that reflected city values. The close knit settlements of New England reflected the Puritan values of &quot;Christianity not as a faith of lonely believers wandering in the desert but as a highly social religion revolving around the congregation and community.&quot; Also in Pennsylvania where practical considerations made for crowded waterfront developments. In contrast, Virginia with its irregular shoreline with many small inlets only helped to reinforce the anti-urban political culture characteristic of the &quot;royalist Cavaliers&quot; who settled there in small, scattered settlements dominated by plantations.<br />Where Mr Lazare sticks to developing on this theme and tying this historical bias to technological developments such as the automobile, his book is original and very readable. When he attacks traditions and institutions simply for the sake of being critical, the book comes across as contrived.	2001-07-01
US	50452306	R12YWOI35XRQXS	0786865512	878296037	The Mummy Congress : Science, Obsession, and the Everlasting Dead	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Mummy's curse...	...is not a curse of death afterall but simply that these fascinating ancient relics have the power to become an obsession. That is the fate of the mummy experts who congregate every three years at THE MUMMY CONGRESS; the most recent gathering, and the starting point for this book being the one held recently in Aria, Chile. What else but an obsession would cause people from around the globe, gainfully employed as scientists (archaeologists, pathologists, anthropologists, etc) to travel at their own expense to a remote corner of Chile.  Why else would you put yourself through interminable flight connections to stay in budget hotels at a locale near the driest place on earth - the Atacama Desert - and eat at a place called the Restaurant of The Dead. Indeed the author says the Mummy Congress &quot;is not savvy. And it certainly is not deluxe. What makes the Mummy Congress so memorable - some might say gloriously eccentric- is something a good deal rarer and far more interesting. It is the odd, lonely passion of its delegates. With few exceptions, those attending the congress love mummies. And they relish being around others who feel the same way.&quot; <br />The book though is about a lot more than these gatherings of eccentric mummy lovers. The author takes us on a journey to Peru, Egypt, Netherlands, China and Russia, and back in time to 7,000 years ago when civilizations first started mummification. We delve into the science of the subject and what it can tell us about the religious rituals, dress, diet and even the use of drugs in these cultures. The presence of traces of nicotine and cocaine in the hair of Egyptian and Peruvian mummies is one of the current puzzles being mulled over. Even the lowly parasites that inhabit their mummified hosts have their own experts. Some of the interesting stories are Tutankhamen's excavation, the embalming of Stalin, and &quot;Juanita&quot;, the near perfectly preserved Incan girl discovered on an icy ledge in the Andes.<br />The interest in mummies is not only scientific though. The book looks at some of the uses societies have put them to: from being used as circus sideshow artifacts in the US to being ground up and taken as a cure-all (mumia) in Victorian England or used as an exotic paint pigment (Egyptian brown). <br />Near the end of the book the author gives us a final bit of insight into the respect in which mummies are held by their devotees. There is never any talking &quot;lightly or unfeelingly&quot; about them. &quot;Indeed, they often speak as if the mummies themselves can hear exactly what is being said.&quot; If so we can say this book is everything we ever wanted to know about mummies and were glad the author asked them.	2001-06-30
US	50452306	RIPS9N5CCBSPE	0813334829	590768788	Extinct Humans	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Splitting heirs	Paleoanthropologists are a little sensitive about their field of study and how it is overshadowed by genetics and evolutionary biology. As such we can forgive Ian Tatersall for the parts of the book where advocacy for his position becomes a bit strident.<br />The basic argument of EXTINCT HUMANS is that throughout the evolutionary history of hominids there have been at least 15 species of humans, some of which coexisted. All but Homo sapiens are extinct. Naturally there is no argument about the extinction of other hominids, but other aspects of this position are not universally accepted. There are many other scientists that argue for a linear descent of man from Ardipithecus ramidus through Australiopithicus, Homo habilis and Homo erectus to us. These opposing camps are called &quot;splitters&quot; and &quot;lumpers&quot;. Splitters see a great number of less variable species wheras lumpers see few species with greater variation. Ian Tattersall is one of the better known spokepersons for the splitters. As Jerry Seinfeld would say 'not that there's anything wrong with that', and we should applaud the use of these names by scientists as a good sign of their not taking themselves too seriously. That's on the surface though because beneath the cute names are some very strongly argued positions. <br />What seems to bother Mr Tattersall and what comes through in his book is that the linear descent lumper theory owes a lot to two scientists who were not even paleontologists. He frequently refers to Ernst Mayr and Theodosius Dobzhansky as the source of this misguided theory and in explaining why the splitters have historically been rejected he says: &quot;how could anyone, much less a bunch of paleoanthropologists who were not equipped with the supposedly more biologically informed backgrounds of Mayr and Dobzhansky, disagree with them?&quot; He says that &quot;No one could. Or, at least, no one would who didn't want to be accused of being anti-evolutionary.&quot;<br />There is too much of this washing of paleontological dirty laundry here and it is in fact rather unnecessary as recent fossil finds are much more supportive of Tattersall's views. The recent discovery of Kenyanthropus platyops by Meave Leakey - the 3rd generation of that family of Kenyan hominid hunters has shown that there are in fact not only previously unknown human species but this one might also be a new genus.<br />Where this book excells is in it's portraying and explaining the fossil record of humans. There are numerous figures, charts, maps and photos. The chapters are thorough with their explanations of the different stages of our evolutionary history. Chapter 6 subtitled the &quot;Great Diaspora&quot; looks at theories of how and when Europe was colonized. Such discussions naturally look at the &quot;African Eve&quot; theory of hominid origins and this book spends sufficient time on it. In summary you could say Mr Tattersall takes an extreme taxonomic view of human evolution; somewhat like a compulsive compiler of lists or an obsession with putting each thing in it's proper place. This is best illustrated with his species classification of Homo fossils as follows: erectus (Asians), antecessor (Europeans) and ergaster (Africans). <br />Critics point out that humans are more variable morphologically than any other primate species but this variation is within group. Geneticists argue also that genetic variation is much less than morphological variation. Together this seems to say, Kenyanthropus platyops notwithstanding, lumpers with their arguments in favor of fewer and more variable species still have a point.<br />The irony with science writing is that for every interpretation offered and truth discovered there is always another opinion. It certainly applies here and it means we cant be satisfied with the single view that EXTINCT HUMANS offers. It makes for some further interesting reading.	2001-06-29
US	50452306	R1JW38TPW10CWV	0465026427	172135515	A Geography Of Time: The Temporal Misadventures of a Social Psychologist	Books	4	9	19	N	N	Slow down, Mr Levine	The subject of time is fascinating. It's origins, how we measure it, adjusting for it when we travel, and it's interrelationship with geography in how we discovered our world. Much of this has been written about elsewhere. TIME LORD and LONGITUDE being two recent examples and Mr Levine does touch on some of the same topics - the history of the clock for example. A GEOGRAPHY OF TIME however takes a different slant and looks more closely at time as a cultural element. How, depending on where you live - small town, big city, here in the US or elsewhere in the world - your perception and appreciation of time varies. We measure it the same way but it simply does not mean the same thing to each of us. This was brought home to the author from his time spent in Brazil. Sure an hour is still 60 minutes, but it's just that it starts later in Brazil. In other words while we in the US would mentally start counting our hour, logically from 10.01, many elsewhere subconsciously begin at about 10.15! <br />Time does not always have to be that structured, formal, or even scientific and that is the only problem with this book. Differences in perception and respect for time around the world are well known and part of traveler's lore and horror stories. The attention the book devotes to measuring it allows Mr Levine to develop a 36 item checklist of the fastest and slowest US cities. This bit of temporal tenacity though simply provides facts but does not really add much to our enjoyment of this quirky commodity. <br />I would suggest that Mr Levine slow down a bit with all this seriousness about time. Our collective obsession with mastering time could sometimes take a healthy back seat to those who have long ago learned how to occasionaly let it slide.	2001-06-29
US	50452306	R32I7W3VL93JW	0140298517	367419940	The Basque History of the World: The Story of a Nation	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Basque-ing with pride	The approximately 2.5 million basques that live in the western Pyrenees spread across a few Spanish and French provinces (the vast majority in Spain), do indeed have a lot to be proud of. As a start, being different is something that people are always happy to claim about themselves. This is most definitely true about the basques. THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD is quick to tell us that it is their history that basques are most proud of. An ancient people, their arrival in Iberia may not be from paleolithic times as descendants of Cro-Magnon man as their myths say, but they certainly arrived long before the French and Spanish did; and although their lands have been invaded and ruled by many, starting with the Romans, the basques have always managed to maintain a fair degree of autonomy. <br />Once the discussion switches to politics, the potential for Mr Kurlansky to slip is great. One of the dangers for writers who become enamoured with the people they research and the places they visit, is that they can end up glamorizing the culture. The finest travel writers such as Theroux, Matthiessen, Naipaul, and Bryson are all aware of this and maintain balance - admiration but also admonishment where appropriate. The danger for Mr Kurlansky is that in talking about basque nationalism and the origins of ETA, the book has the potential for being seen as an apology for the basque terrorist group. Only potential though as Mr Kurlansky explains the political motivations for ETA but is far more interested in highlighting the many reasons why basque is so much more than a word hyphenated as - seperatist.<br />Mr Kurlansky tells us about basque cuisine. Basques are great fishermen and excellent cooks and there are recipes here to prove it. Other interesting aspects of basque culture discussed are the Atlantic whaling and cod fish industry, why there are a preponderance of Jesuit basques, and the origins of the beret and jai-alai. This rich culture and proud people have an admirerin Mark Kurlansky and he pays them a fitting tribute with this book.	2001-06-28
US	50452306	R28QCRVPKS16UY	0393048292	64098290	White Collar Sweatshop: The Deterioriation of Work and Its Rewards in Corporate America	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sweat soaked white-collars	How many people working in information technology and financial services (to name just two of the shiny sectors of the new economy) realize that a cruel economic trick has been played on them. There have been many analyses of American economic growth, industrialization, and the changing nature of work done in the past, but WHITE COLLAR SWEATSHOP struck me with one telling statistic: White-collar men earned an average of $19.24 an hour in 1997, barely a nickel more than the previous generation did in 1973. Add to this declining perks, specifically medical and pension benefits along with increasing work hours. The author highlights a trend which she calls &quot;job spill&quot;, as a pernicious recent trend in today's white-collar working world. Basically it is the encroachment of work into lunch, vacation, and family time through technology creating a permanent umbilical cord with the workplace. <br />Insightful and illuminating with some interesting proposals for remedying the white-collar working environment. This book made quite an impression on me as I had just recently read Barbara Ehrenreich's NICKEL AND DIMED. That book showed up the grimness of blue-collar work. Now with this book add the millions of white-collar workers and we see a situation where - although gainfully employed and all would agree, pleased with the opportunity to be working - there is nevertheless a deep sense of dissatisfaction with the work environment. There is an awareness of a large and growing base of a pyramid with only a few at the top really benefiting. As one reviewer has already mentioned BOBOS IN PARADISE is what to read for a satirical view from the top.	2001-06-26
US	50452306	R3F7AU4ZD8GYVL	0060197765	907746676	From Third World to First: The Singapore Story - 1965-2000	Books	4	12	16	N	N	What do you want, prosperity or freedom? You can't have both	That seems to be the choice for many in the third world, at least that is what is implied by Lee Kuan Yew. The story of Singapore should be viewed against the backdrop of so many countries in the world still mired in poverty even after decades of structural adjustment and liberalization and being fully committed to capitalism. Or compare with recently reformed former communist countries now striving to be integrated into the world economy. The title of Lee's book is no coincidence. These countries are still third world, all in the shadow of Singapore, which by contrast has arrived - a first world nation.<br />FROM THIRD WORLD TO FIRST is then preaching to the converted. Those who want the economic success of Singapore. It should not be surprising to learn that this book is a big seller in many countries where Singapore is regarded as a model of economic progress. Lee has a following outside his own country and away from the metropolitan countries. His autocratic style of government and economic policies are seen as an appropriate mix for many third world scenarios. The book is written with this audience in mind and Lee is quite clear in stating that the US (government and people) are not his primary concerns; he seems to be saying we can't understand him. &quot;They [us] want to promote democracy and human rights everywhere except where it would hurt themselves as in the oil-rich Arabian peninsula.&quot; With this one sentence Lee dismisses the major criticism about Singapore - it's not a democracy. So what? Lee would argue. <br />Wheras this book is a fairly detailed analysis of Singapore's economic history, and its development strategies as highlighted here are interesting to readers of economic development. Lee is sensitive to criticism and on a broader scale his book is aimed at US and UK audiences. Underlying the economics is an unmistakable political argument - an attempt to justify the human rights abuses, denial of rights and abolishment of freedoms most ofus take for granted. Most westerners say Singapore is a lovely country...to visit. <br />I am glad that FROM THIRD WORLD TO FIRST is simply an interesting distraction and that I was not faced with the reality of the choices - either being made by me or for me - prosperity or freedom. It's something to read about but not to be experienced.	2001-06-25
US	50452306	R3E6WNQB73G8GS	0375502793	992500396	American Patriots: The Story of Blacks in the Military from the Revolution to Desert Storm	Books	5	18	19	N	N	For blacks, the war has always been on two fronts	The history of blacks in the US military is long and distinguished. AMERICAN PATRIOTS tells of this history from the Revolution through the French and Indian War, Civil War, World Wars I and II, Korea, Vietnam and the Gulf; each war that blacks have fought in forming a chapter of the book. It is a history of contrasts. In many battles blacks were required to prove their bravery and patriotism - which they did - and duly earned respect. Yet at the same time they were prevented from showing leadership - an ability which they have always possesed. So as with the history of blacks in America, AMERICAN PATRIOTS is a story about pride, courage, belief in country, and at the same time, a struggle against prejudice and discrimination. A war on two fronts. There have been many injustices:<br />&gt; During the Civil War black Union soldiers were required to pay for their uniforms while white soldiers received a subsidy.<br />&gt; During WWII the military demanded &quot;white blood only&quot; for its white soldiers. Great care was taken to ensure that the blood supply was segregated.<br />&gt; At military camps, during entertainment such as movies, blacks had to sit at the rear, behind prisoners of war.<br />These are the injustices that were meted out to blacks as a group; at a personal level the unfair treatment wasn't any less, it just stung more. The book mentions the irony that this was taking place in a US military that was getting more integrated. Since President Truman ordered the army desegregated in 1948 there has been an increasing committment to racial equality in the military. Today blacks make up 12% of the Army's commissioned officers - the same as blacks share of the national population. They also comprise 8% of the generals. Representation equivalent to their contribution and role in society - yes; leadership responsibilities - definitely. Is there any better example of this than Colin Powell?<br />The book is well written and contains many personal stories oftriumph. It prompts the unasked question. Is the war on two fronts now over?	2001-06-02
US	50452306	R1O4B9099GPUED	0674003721	44827033	The Century of the Gene	Books	2	17	29	N	N	Gene Grinch	Here we have a brief history of events such as Mendel's laws, Watson and Crick's description of DNA structure and the reading of the draft of the human genome. These events define the 20th century as THE CENTURY OF THE GENE. Beyond that this book is distinctly mean with it's praise. The book is less history and more lecture; and largely directed at the scientific community itself. The author admonishes biologists for their &quot;gene talk&quot; and wants the discussion to be more structured, reasoned, and realistic. She takes the role of the gene Grinch when she steals the thunder of all the recent popular talk about the wonders of the gene by saying that &quot;the gene is not a physical object&quot; and there needs to be more &quot;acknowledgement of how large a gap between genetic 'information' and biological meaning [there] really is&quot;. It is in making this point to her colleagues that we the lay reader, lose her, and then lose interest.<br />THE CENTURY OF THE GENE gets fairly technical and it remains on a narrow focus - the usefulness and validity of the &quot;gene talk&quot; favored by many popular science writers. Books such as TABOO and GENOME, where genes are &quot;linked&quot; or &quot;tied&quot; to some human attribute, would therefore not be on this author's recommended reading list. That's fine for Ms Fox Keller's standing within the scientific community, but if she wishes to bring to the attention of the wider reading audience her genuine concerns with these popular science books, there is one thing she should have taken from them. They are called &quot;popular&quot; because of style and readability. Unfortunately for THE CENTURY OF THE GENE, the same can not be said.	2001-06-01
US	50452306	R2SB122AQWN9GC	158648026X	118875723	Taboo: Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports And Why We're Afraid To Talk About It	Books	2	72	91	N	N	Interesting, but it's not science	The main thesis of TABOO is stated very early on. In answer to the question implied in the books subtitle: Why black athletes dominate sports, we are told that &quot;the decisive variable is in our genes - the inherent differences between populations shaped over many thousands of years of evolution.&quot;<br />In getting to the essence of TABOO's thesis consider the following fact: the reading of the draft of the human genome has done nothing to disprove the reality that most genetic variation in humans is within populations rather than between groups. TABOO is primarily concerned with black athletes - a very specific population group - but the universal rule still applies. Should we not then expect to see the same pattern of greater genetic variation within this group rather than between this population and another? Further, if genes for athletic prowess exist then should they not also follow the normal pattern? If on the other hand, like Mr Entine you argue otherwise, then it's incumbent on you to provide proof of an alternative genetic pattern. How fortunate for Mr Entine's book that - coincidentally - this proof is in &quot;the harder-to-study regulatory genes (that circumscribe our physical athletic abilities)&quot; Bottom line - no proof is forthcoming. <br />The book is interesting for its discussion about the cultural background to Kenyan long distance running and for the look at the careers of sports icons. As a scientific analysis of empirical data on the superiority of black athletes - keep looking.	2001-05-31
US	50452306	RSKNJJTT7UIOT	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	28	33	N	N	The grindstone	NICKEL AND DIMED is a book of unpleasant truths and awkward economic realities. Being a book about work in America it should not, primarily be a story about grimly getting by. The people here are not economic failures - not the &quot;underclass&quot; or welfare recipients, they are not even the unemployed. They are simply the unskilled and the working poor; that large sector of our labor force that work for less than $8.00 an hour. Included here are former welfare mothers and all who earn below the official poverty line of $17,230 in annual family income. The story however is grim, because, as the subtitle says: it's all about not getting by in America. <br />The motivation for this book came when Ms Ehrenreich asked herself: &quot;how does anyone live on wages available to the unskilled? And how, in particular, were the [millions of] women about to be booted into the labor market by welfare reform going to make it on $6 or $7 an hour?&quot; Ah ha! some may say, a critique of welfare reform. This proves that NICKEL AND DIMED is just another partisan analysis of inequality and a diatribe about a coming class war. While Ms Ehrenreich does show her liberal sympathies and talks of social protest, the book is far too objective an analysis to be a polemic, and it's much to humorous to be a jeremiad. <br />Ms Ehrenreich worked for months in low wage jobs: waitress and hotel maid in Key West; housecleaner and nursing home attendant in Portland, Maine; and as a salesclerk at Wal-Mart in Minneapolis. Life pretty quickly became a constant fret about affordable housing, health care, and food. &quot;If you can't put up the two months rent you need to secure an apartment, you end up paying through the nose for a room by the week. If you have only a room, with a hot plate at best...you eat fast food or the hot dogs and Styrofoam cups of soup that can be microwaved in a convenience store.&quot; Her jobs in Key West earned Ms Ehrenreich $1,039 for the month, $517 of which she spenton food and she says there was no accomodation near work for less than $600. Work it out - that's not getting by. In Maine she earned $1,200 and managed to reduce rent to less than 50% of her monthly earnings. This was only a pyrrhic victory though as she states that with the tourist season around the corner, her rent would have more than doubled. This constant and futile search for affordable housing is best summarized by her comment that &quot;it came as a shock to realize that 'trailer-trash' has become, for me, a demographic category to aspire to.&quot;<br />The strength of the book comes from Ms Ehrenreichs ability to tell this tale of grim and grimy economics in a sensitive and yet humorous way. She discusses some policy issues - housing, the method of calculating minimum wage, health insurance. She is most insightful and writes at her best when she concludes: &quot;Just bear in mind, when I stumble, that this is in fact the best-case scenario: a person with every advantage that ethnicity and education, health and motivation can confer attempting, in a time of exuberant prosperity, to survive in the economy's lower depths.&quot; <br />Ms Ehrenreich, as a writer, might agree with the comment below, but as NICKEL AND DIMED shows, this should not be anyone's experience of working in America. <br />&quot;Often I think writing is a sheer paring away of oneself, leaving always something thinner, barer, more meagre.&quot; (F. Scott Fitzgerald)	2001-05-29
US	50452306	R3OMF5S834VMWT	0375401768	114627155	Time Lord : Sir Sandford Fleming and the Creation of Standard Time	Books	4	4	8	N	N	It's time to go!...	...but how do we know this? Usually by simply looking at what time it is and figuring out how long it will take to get to our destination. This simple calculation of travel time, even with adjustments - adding or subtracting hours if it's a long trip east or west - is so automatic for us that we take it for granted. It was not always so; about 125 years ago it would have been other than simple - it would have been impossible. In saying &quot;it's time to go&quot;, you have used your innate 20th century knowledge of longitude, time zones, and standard time. You can thank Canadian engineer Sandford Fleming - the TIME LORD of the book - for this inherited wisdom; and thank Clark Blaise for writing about it in a very entertaining way. <br />The book portrays the Victorian era of the late 19th century as a period that saw the world shrinking; ocean liners and railroads were bringing people together and yet all remained governed by the arbitrary nature of time. It was noon at a location when the sun was directly overhead, but as the author says &quot;it was only noon for that community [as] all across the continent, every twelve miles-plus along the same east-west latitude, as the sun crossed new longitudinal meridians, new noons were created.&quot; Longitude as a concept was known about and so was it's relationship with time, it's just that everybody had their own local time. Rather than deal with dozens of noons the &quot;Pennsylvania Railroad maintained Philadelphia time along its entire route&quot;. <br />The solution arrived at by Fleming was the creation of the 24 hour clock; a timely epiphany that seems so obvious now we wonder why it took until 1876 to be conceptualized. Building on this, Fleming also came up with the idea of 24 one hour time zones, although initially he had no prime meridian or &quot;zero&quot; - a reference point by which to set clocks. Eventually in 1884 a prime meridian was named which ran through Greenwich, England. <br />The book is more than a treatsie on time. It is a well written, thoughtful, and frequently humorous look at Victorian science, the expanding world, explorations and discoveries. Darwin's ORIGIN OF SPECIES, the telephone and electric lighting are all mentioned. It is best defined as the period when man developed an &quot;altered relationship with time&quot;.	2001-05-28
US	50452306	R112OJVFLAPU4N	0679451226	809423063	The Sibley Guide to Birds	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Si(m)bley the best	It's hard to imagine a better thought out bird book than THE SIBLEY GUIDE TO BIRDS. With nearly 7,000 beautifully painted illustrations of over 800 species in 550 plus pages, there is no complaining about quantity. Quality is not a problem either. The illustrations show the birds in almost all plumages (seasonal &amp; juvenile); regional variants and subspecies are shown in hundreds of additional paintings. The neccessary profiles for identification are here: perched, swimming, and flying - both top and bottom. The layout also shows that this is the work of a considerate birder. A page comprises two columns; picture, text and range map are arranged in identical order so a glance at an open book gives us a handy, side-by-side scan of four different birds. <br />Even what I thought was a problem - it's oversized and doesn't fit in pockets - is suitably compensated for. I don't have to  perpetually shield this book from a little rain; the cover is thick and flexible and it's weather resistant. Finally, I will gladly take the trade off, accepting the larger size for the additional illustrations.	2001-05-27
US	50452306	R1AWS3OJW8KAB7	0743202473	73196434	A Primate's Memoir	Books	5	91	94	N	N	Baboon bon mots	Anyone who begins a book by telling us that he &quot;had never planned to become a savanna baboon when [he] grew up&quot; deserves a read. Such an opening promises witticisms and wisdom and A PRIMATE'S MEMOIR doesn't disappoint. The story is captivating whether Mr Sapolsky is telling us about his experiences in Kenya or about the interesting life of...his extended family? The book is only part scientific study: the effect that stress has on primate social behavior; it is also a travelogue, a little bit of cultural anthropology, a comment on globalization and economic inequality, a memoir of course, and finally, a pure joy to read.<br />Although it is now widely known that stress affects health, Mr Sapolsky's work has shown that this differs among individuals. He has also exploded the myth of the supremacy of the alpha male in primate groups. Among the baboons he shows complex social arrangements where important leadership functions are carried out by senior females; and what else but a complex social order would show - as his troop did - that lower ranking males suffer higher stress levels and greater ill health?  After twenty years of on and off study Mr Sapolsky has naturally grown fond of the baboons. He gives them Old Testament names not from affection, but simply because they exhibit individual personalities. The King of the troop is naturally Solomon and Nebuchanezzar is a vengeful, attacking female.<br />The book is never sappy and does not romanticize the beasts and that is good - because wild animals they certainly are. A troop is an appropriate name for a group of baboons. Perhaps squad could work also because when approaching an unknown there is an element of military purposefulness and discipline about their behavior. As a 10 year old in Kenya in the sixties, I was stranded with my uncle in his car on the side of the road from Mombasa to Nairobi. While we waited baboons approached: there was the dominant male as point man - up front to get our attention;there were flankers on the sides, circling; and sure enough there were commandos coming up from the rear, behind the car. I can fully appreciate Mr Sapolsky's comment on their intelligence when he says: &quot;you find yourself, a reasonably well-educated human with a variety of interests, spending hours each day and night obsessing on how to outmaneuver these beasts, how to think like them, how to think better than them. Usually unsuccessfully.&quot; <br />The depradations of bush life, the difficulties that he occasionally got into, and the intruding, harsh reality of life in the Third World are all addressed by Mr Sapolsky is an honest and yet very humorous way. Overall, above and beyond science and the odd difficulty, A PRIMATE'S MEMOIR portrays a wonderful joi de vivre that both Mr Sapolsky and his baboons seem to have enjoyed most of the time.	2001-05-27
US	50452306	R1RHOM2G05WTKU	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Reading the recipe	Ever since the dual announcement in Britain and Washington on June 26, 2000 that science had completed the draft of the human genome there has been a growing interest on two fronts: (1) the general, popular-science reading public and (2) the scientific community. The rough draft is known but that is still only 8,000 genes out of the estimated 60,000-80,000 residing on the 23 pairs of chromosomes in the DNA of each of us. Since this book came out less than a year ago, science has been finding genes at the rate of several hundred per month - about 10,000-12,000 are now known.  The author says &quot;I genuinely believe that we are living through the greatest intellectual moment in history...until now human genes were an almost complete mystery. We will be the first generation to penetrate that mystery. We stand on the brink of great new answers but, even more, of great new questions.&quot; The interest is infectious and obviously a lot of us share this same sense of awe and mystery; just look at number of new books on the subject. Matt Ridley's GENOME is one of the better ones. <br />Mr Ridley approaches the task of introducing us to the human genome with skill and imbues us with his sense of mystery. Each gene has a story and he cleverly selects one story for each of the 23 pairs of chromosomes in human cell DNA and makes each a chapter of the book. Reading the recipe of the human genome becomes Ridley's book on human nature: life, history, fate, environment, intelligence, instinct, disease, personality, sex, memory, and death. In looking at some of the more contentious issues in genetics, Ridley shows that with the human genome, only one thing is certain - puzzles abound. Take the following examples:<br />&gt; Having read the recipe as a primer, Mr Ridley looks at some of the recent research on the heritability of intelligence and is led to conclude that &quot;the heritability of intelligence may therefore be about the genetics of nurture, just as much as the genetics of nature.&quot;<br />&gt; The 'gay gene' is a creation of the media; science sees things differently. After mentioning the alternative theories for homosexuality such as the correlation with birth order, the book says plainly that sexual antagonism among genes is a highly plausible cause. &quot;The idea of genes in conflict with each other...between male genes and female genes, is a little known story outside a small group of evolutionary biologists.&quot; <br />&gt; The reaction to stress is another paradox. The production of natural steroid hormones such as testosterone causes the suppression of the body's immune system. Mr Ridley says &quot;this is even more puzzling&quot; because &quot;it means that whenever you are stressed by a life event, you become more vulnerable to infection, cancer and heart disease&quot; It's like &quot;kicking you when you are down...Why?&quot; <br />&gt; One of the more fascinating puzzles involves the possible connection between prion genes and brain debilitating afflictions such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and mad cow disease. &quot;Prions retain deep mysteries, the foremost of which is what on earth they exist for...[it] almost certainly concerns the brain, which is where the gene is switched on...[but we are] still no nearer to knowing why we have this potentially lethal gene.&quot;<br />The merits of the book are many: it's unique presentation - 23 concise chapters corresponding to genes linked to human nature; it's infectious sense of wonder; it is well written - where science permits it Mr Ridley loses no opportunity to be witty. Overall the GENOME is thoroughly enjoyable and educational.	2001-05-26
US	50452306	R1N7X3GQTLCJDV	069101633X	386567423	The Life of Birds	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Just call him Sir David Attenbird	David Attenborough has surpassed himself with this book. Previously best know for THE LIVING PLANET, here with the LIFE OF BIRDS he shows where his real interests lie - they fly. Written in a clear, easy, straightforward prose, Attenborough takes us around the world, using species from various locations to illustrate the books different themes. In discussing flightlessness we are introduced to some of the strangest birds alive today; one of the best known examples being New Zealand's Kiwi. Matching the Kiwi in flightlessness, and in possessing a sublime name, are the Kakapo, Weka and Takahe. When the book discusses plumage and courtship we are taken to the proper place: New Guinea - to look at birds-of-paradise and bowerbirds. <br />LIFE OF BIRDS is heavily illustrated with full color photographs; at least one per page. The book covers a wide variety of topics such as nesting, parenting, fishing, hunting, and endurance. Attenborough discusses the interesting, and sometimes contentious issues in ornithology, namely: the origins of birds, the evolution of flight, migratory behavior, and bird extinctions. He does this in a very balanced manner, mentioning all the various theories. <br />A good introduction to bird behavior and a perfect gift for a bird lover.	2001-05-25
US	50452306	R2TMNMQJC63KXA	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The popular Adams...	...and by that I mean popular biography. This book, \\"JOHN ADAMS by David McCullough, strange as it may sound, is a good general introduction to our 2nd president. Strange because as one of the founding fathers of the nation, we are supposedly well schooled in his life story; it also seems inappropriate to use the word introduction when talking about someone who played such a pivotal role in one of history's great revolutions. But an introduction it is and I think that is exactly what Mr McCullough intended. For two reasons:<br><br>(1) The focus on Adams in previous books has been mostly on his intellectual prowess, portraying him correctly as the thoughtful, political philosopher that he was. This emphasis has however tended to fix Adams in our minds as blunt, irascible, and inflexible. This is best shown in his dealings with America's opponents (The British and French). While McCullough shows these sides of the man, he brings them out in the context of Adams' extreme s!ense of duty, his patriotism and his almost frenetic approach to work. Adams had parliamentary experience with the Continental Congresses, functioned in diplomatic postings to Holland and France during the revolutionary war and subsequently served as minister to the Court of St James (the first US ambassador to Great Britain). McCullough therefore in highlighting these aspects of Adams' career - consummate negotiator and diplomat - shows how narrow and misleading it is to view Adams primarily as abrasive, argumentative and intransigent. <br><br>(2) With John Adams frankness was equally at ease with warmness and witticisms, and this is ably shown by the book's frequent use of letters that Adams and his wife Abigail wrote to each other. We are familiar with the man's political writings and we also knew that Abigail was a wise woman, but the selection and use of their letters here adds a rich humanity to this relationship which is one of the real strengths of this biography, and !perhaps is the real reason why it will indeed be referred to as a popular biography.	2001-05-25
US	50452306	RZIK34CHT18DM	0393020444	932833170	The Holocaust on Trial	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The destruction of David Irving	David Irving self styled historian and author of numerous books on Nazi Germany is best known for HITLER'S WAR which at the time it came out in 1977, was hailed as a great scholarly work by historians such as Hugh Trevor Roper and John Keegan. This and two earlier books: THE DESTRUCTION OF DRESDEN and THE DESTRUCTION OF CONVOY PQ17, best summarize Irving's career. Rich with source documents his work is invariably called &quot;detailed&quot;; it is also always controversial. Indeed Irving was sued because of his assertion in CONVOY PQ17 that there was cowardice on the part of a British officer. It is therefore ironic that this book by D.D. Guttenplan - THE HOLOCAUST ON TRIAL should be about a suit brought by Mr Irving against Deborah Lipstadt and Penguin books for libelous remarks in Ms Lipstadt's book DENYING THE HOLOCAUST. As shown by Mr Guttenplan though, the greater irony is that as a result of the outcome of the trial - in favor of Lipstadt and Penguin - and with the Judges condemnatory words about Mr Irving, this book could justifiably have been titled 'The Destruction of David Irving'. For that is exactly, and deservedly, the impact the following words by Judge Charles Gray at last year April's ruling, will have on Mr Irving's career: &quot;Irving has for his own ideological reasons persistently and deliberately misrepresented and manipulated historical evidence [he is] an active Holocaust denier [who] associates with right-wing extremists who promote neo-Nazism.&quot; <br />THE HOLOCAUST ON TRIAL is about more than Mr Irving; the principal characters involved in the suit are profiled, especially Anthony Julius, lawyer for the defense and Richard J Evans, a historian and expert witness. Mr Guttenplan goes into the background of the libel law in Britain, which is fundamentally different to ours. The onus is on the defense. A consequence of this, only tangentially touched on here, is that other books on the same subject have been affected. John Lukac's book THEHITLER OF HISTORY, friends in the UK tell me, is only recently out and they understand that it is not as complete as my US edition. <br />Mr Guttenplan also mentions some of the reactions to the courts decision. John Keegan it seems is still a defender; he writes that Irving has &quot;many of the qualities of the most creative historians. He is certainly never dull.&quot; Ms Lipstadt on the other hand is &quot;as dull as only the self-righteously politically correct can be.&quot; True, perhaps, but she is not &quot;an active Holocaust denier&quot; and she at least has a history career to continue with.	2001-05-23
US	50452306	R2RK2L0VDN9TXM	1859847390	583999917	Late Victorian Holocausts: El Nino Famines and the Making of the Third World	Books	4	16	19	N	N	The statistics of misery	From the substantive topics of LATE VICTORIAN HOLOCAUSTS, namely El Nino induced droughts and famines that brought on agricultural collapse and socioeconomic disintegration in the tropics, there can be no doubting that the real subject of this book is misery. It's presented here in such a well reasoned, thought provoking, and professional way that we don't notice how deeply we've dived into the miasma before we are too far gone and by then we can't put the book down. <br />To put misery into context consider that between 1876 and 1900 there were a series of El Nino events that Mr Davis estimates caused between 32 to 61 million deaths in China, India and Brazil. It was not all climatalogical (i.e floods and droughts), but also diseases such as malaria, smallpox, dysentry, and cholera. Mr Davis, in building the theoretical underpinnings for his book posits two explanations:<br />(1) These societies had pre-existing agricultural and social systems that were capable of ameliorating the effects of the natural disasters. To the extent that the systems were now failing in the late Victorian era, Mr Davis traces this to the policies adopted by the governments of imperial China, colonial India, and Brazil. In short the trade, finance and economic practices of Europe, Britain and America, had, - long before it became a buzz-word - effectively achieved globalization. <br />(2) This is not to say that Third World poverty is solely a result of imperialism. It is not, and that isn't Mr Davis' argument. It is instead, he says, an issue of &quot;political ecology.&quot; This concept as developed by Mr Davis interestingly shows how individual actions are ultimately the principal causes but also how intricately they are linked to geopolitical factors. <br />In summary Mr Davis seems to be saying that neither the market (or the lack thereof), nor government influence, are solely sufficient in explaining the Third World. Political ecology offers a holistic approach and sees the individual as responsible, but with a nod to the influence of geopolitics. The political element of the equation is all the more important when you realize that in the the Third World, poor also means, poor in power.	2001-05-23
US	50452306	R3RMZJ2YHR7T1T	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	4	43	68	N	N	&quot;Mein Fuhrer&quot;...	...is not, we would all agree, an advisable way to address a British High Court Justice! Certainly not when careers are at stake and professional reputations are in fact the very substance of the specific case. This comment made by historian David Irving is one of the more bizarre facts that emerges in LYING ABOUT HITLER. A book about the rather strange libel suit brought by Mr Irving against Deborah Lipstadt. In her book DENYING THE HOLOCAUST, Ms Lipstadt said Irving was &quot;one of the more dangerous spokespersons for Holocaust denial [who] misstate, misquote, falsify statistics and falsely attribute conclusions to reliable sources&quot; She also said that &quot;on some level, Irving seems to conceive of himself as carrying on Hitler's legacy.&quot;  <br />LYING ABOUT HITLER is the extended account of the deposition given by the author, Richard J Evans at the trial. Mr Evans a specialist in modern German history, was called as an expert witness by the defense. It has been generally argued by the press, court observers, and other authors of books on this trial that Mr Evans' testimomy was crucial to the outcome - the defense winning the case. There is much more here though than an account of a law suit. Three interrelated issues are explored:<br />(1) &quot;What is historical objectivity? How do we know when a historian is telling the truth? Aren't all historians, in the end, only giving their own opinions about the past?&quot; This is how Mr Evans begins his book, and the answers to these questions are central to explaining his role in the case. As the author of an earlier well respected analysis of the historical method titled IN DEFENSE OF HISTORY, his opinion was wanted on the following: objectivity and bias in historical writing, historical research, and how to obtain accurate knowledge of the past. The defense attorney said simply that these were &quot;the central issues in the case that Irving was bringing against Lipstadt.&quot;<br />(2) Is Ms Lipstadt's statement that &quot;Holocaust deniers pose a serious threat to historical knowledge and memory&quot; an accurate claim? Are these people &quot;connected with neo-fascist, far-right, and antisemitic political extremists&quot; as Ms Lipstadt is quoted as saying? And what is the connection with David Irving? As this book shows, Mr Evans went back through almost all of Mr Irving's book's (over 30) and reviews of these books to convincingly argue to the Judge's satisfaction, that Mr Irving was guilty of misquotation, mistranslation, misrepresentation and gross distortion. <br />(3) The quirky nature of the libel laws in the UK have a role to play in the issue. The fact that Ms Lipstadt and Penguin books had to prove their innocence - the burden rests with the defense - makes the whole issue of libel and free speech a very contentious issue in the UK. Defendants only have one advantage; in the pretrail phase they can access the plaintiff's personal as well as professional documents. The defense was able to portray Mr Irving as having some rather strange sentiments. In keeping with his odd &quot;mein Fuhrer&quot; remark, Mr Irving had written a poem for his young daughter that read: &quot;I am a Baby Aryan / Not Jewish or Sectarian / I have no plans to marry an / Ape or Rastafarian&quot;. It obviously didn't help his claim that he was not racist, neofascist, or a Holocaust denier.  <br />In contrast to the US where he would have had a harder time making his case, or in Germany where denying the Holocaust is a crime, and he is in fact barred from entering the country, Mr Irving continues to take advantage of UK laws. This very book LYING ABOUT HITLER, has been withdrawn by it's UK publisher, under threat of a lawsuit by...you guessed it...David Irving!	2001-05-23
US	50452306	RRBPYYOLO1PGV	0743201299	977410269	Day Of Deceit: The Truth About FDR and Pearl Harbor	Books	2	5	19	N	N	Dec. 7, 1941: a day that lives not in infamy, but conspiracy	As you get ready for what will surely be this summer's first blockbuster movie - PEARL HARBOUR, you may be inclined to revisit the subject by reading up on it. If you do, be aware of the controversy that continues even now, 60 years later, to swirl around December 7, 1941. For some revisionist historians it remains a day that lives in conspiracy. This book, DAY OF DECEIT is the blockbuster of such conspiracy theories. The size of the conspiracy and the level of deceit as portrayed here by Mr Stinnett is immense. Consider for a minute all the people he says were involved:<br />&gt; Starting at the top there is of course President Roosevelt.<br />&gt; The Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral Harold Stark<br />&gt; Commander of Battleships, Pearl Harbour, Admiral Walter Anderson<br />&gt; Admiral Kimmel's intelligence officer, Lt. Commander Edwin Layton<br />&gt; Intelligence officer, 14th Naval District, Hawaii, Captain Irving Mayfield<br />&gt; Head of USN Hawaiian communications intelligence unit, Lt. Commander Joseph Rochefort<br />&gt; Chief Cryptanalyst, USN Hawaiian communications intelligence unit, Lt. Commander Thomas Dyer<br />&gt; Far Eastern specialist in the Office of Naval Intelligence, Washington D.C., Lt. Commander Arthur McCollum.<br />If anything disproves Mr Stinnett's theory it is this list. The secret to keeping secrets is that very few know about it. For the complicity of such an extensive number of persons to have remained hidden for all these years is quite a stretch of the imagination; especially as it seems that it is only Mr Stinnett himself who has uncovered it.    <br />When Mr Stinnett finds the arguments in his book being punched full of holes by historians (as is certain to happen), he need not worry. This would make an excellent movie script; the conspiracy genre does well. Anyone remember Oliver Stone's JFK?	2001-05-22
US	50452306	R1Y5U17CBWBO6X	0393318885	27174518	The Wealth and Poverty of Nations: Why Some Are So Rich and Some So Poor	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Accursed cultural geographers	This is a blunt, nettlesome, and provocative book. Some may say it's narrow, biased, and simplistic. In the end I think it's simply incomplete. Mr Landes starts out with a discussion of the applicability of geography to the study of economic development, obviously with an eye towards explaining THE WEALTH AND POVERTY OF NATIONS. He says the subject &quot;has fallen on hard times&quot;, illustrating this by listing the leading US universities that have abolished their geography departments. The reason? It &quot;undoubtedly reflect[s] the intellectual weakness of the field; the lack of a theoretical basis, the all-embracing opportunism (more euphemistically, the catholic openess), the special 'easiness' of human geography. But behind those criticisms lay a dissatisfaction with some of the results. Geography has been tarred with a racist brush, an no one wanted to be contaminated.&quot; No one that is except Mr Landes. Being the iconoclast that he is, he writes with no care whatsoever for what tags critics wish to apply; he writes with a view to poking holes in traditional economic theory; he is dismissive of new economic historians, econometricians, dependency theorists, multiculturalists and ethnologists. If you wish to blame globalism, colonialism, imperialism or economic marginalization then you had better come prepared; if nothing else, this book offers a detailed analysis of the history of economic activity.<br />As if in anticipation of the criticisms that will come due to the geographical bias and how this affects his book, Mr Landes has a rejoinder ready. Geography is criticized because it &quot;tells an unpleasant truth, namely, that nature like life is unfair, unequal in its favors; further...natures unfairness is not easily remedied.&quot;<br />The book is plausible in so far as it remains an economic geography study, even with its blunt thesis that the key to success is the Industial Revolution. &quot;Some countries made an industrial revolution and becamerich; and others did not and stayed poor.&quot; Surely this is not a contentious point, but it is only the starting point. We would expect Mr Landes to significantly develop on it, and even mention some of the varied results of industrial experiments. For instance, the experience of many South American countries with the import substitution model of industrial development has been nothing but disastrous. The concept involves importing components for local manufacture which are then substituted for home made goods; the idea is that the experience of making more sophisticated goods should improve capability and the potential for industrialization. That's the concept; the reality is that many economies that previously had a manufacturing base (albeit an inefficient one) now have almost zero manufacturing capability.<br />Some will find Mr Landes' argument egregious when he moves from economic analysis to cultural geography and offers explanations for industrial failure. Religion, he says, has a role to play. Try to remember that the man is an iconoclast when you read here that Protestantism is good for industrialization wheras Roman Catholicism and Islam, with their emphasis on authority, are deleterious to the growth of initiative. <br />As a geographer myself, I understand Mr Landes' impatience with shallow and baseless criticism of the subject, and there is no doubting that cultural factors do have a role to play. The book however opens itself up to ridicule with its almost Darwinian emphasis on these factors. The argument put forward by Mr Landes then ends up being a throwback to those cultural determinists whom he so easily swept aside in his opening chapter.	2001-05-21
US	50452306	R3OLNZ30WI7V9F	0226497240	868267830	Reading National Geographic	Books	2	18	59	N	N	Do I need a Sociology degree to read National Geographic?	The title of this book grabbed me: READING NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC. I now wish I had not grabbed up the book. Doing what the title suggests is a fairly benign activity; the only danger you face in reading the magazine is falling asleep in an inappropriate place. Let's admit it, National Geographic articles are written in a very prosaic style. This however is not news. We have been reading the magazine long enough to know the truth behind what one of it's past editors is quoted as saying: &quot;only what is is of a kindly nature is printed about any country or people, everything unpleasant or unduly critical being avoided&quot;. Most of us have been around long enough to know that such cultural relativism, homogenization, and plain-vanilla humanism makes for some very boring reading.<br />That however is probably the only thing that you really need to know about NG. I certainly didn't need to know - and now knowing, don't believe, - as the authors believe that in depicting the naked breasts of native women: &quot;the magazine and its readers are caught between the desire to play out the cultural fantasy of the oversexed native woman and the social controls of sexual morality...&quot; This fixation which makes up an entire chapter &quot;Women and Their Breasts&quot; only highlights the real difficulty with the book's analysis. It is shallow and leans heavily towards a feministic cultural critique; it's also narrow in that it mostly looks at how NG depicts cultures. What about the other subjects the magazine looks at? <br />Boring writing aside my continued enjoyment of National Geographic comes from its explorations of wild places and its emphasis on nature. I much prefer this to what READING NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC would have me do - ponder whether the magazine is a pernicious contributor to the spread of Western supremacy, colonialism, imperialism, and the homogenizing influences of a white middle class world view.	2001-05-21
US	50452306	R30IEZP1PYOHDO	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	42	52	N	N	The true &quot;spirit of '76&quot;	FOUNDING BROTHERS by Joseph Ellis is one of the best expositions on the remarkable revolutionary fraternity that set the course for the nation; the book principally looks at the interpersonal relationships between George Washington, John Adams, James Madison, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr, set against the backdrop of six episodes that the author says characterized the political-crisis filled, nation-building decade of the 1790's. The book then is less a history of the revolution than a collection of chapter stories and biographical glimpses that illustrates the character and the views of the revolution's most significant political leaders. <br />There are two themes which run throughout the book. Mr Ellis mentions them early and often; they are therefore important to a proper understanding of the behavior and motives of the the founding fathers in this crucial period of national consolidation and soul searching. <br />(1) &quot;No one present at the start knew how it would turn out in the end.&quot; This was fundamentally true for all; it was not just a case of a few doubting Thomases. George Washington was unsure that we up for the task; Washington in his last General Order, the author says, expressed his concerns about what would happen if the principles of federal government were not supported: &quot;the honor, dignity and justice of the nation would be lost forever.&quot; Mr Ellis says plainly &quot;what in retrospect has the look of a foreordained unfolding of God's will was in reality an improvisational affair in which sheer chance, pure luck - both good and bad...determined the outcome.&quot; <br />(2) Politically the period was marked by &quot;shrill accusatory rhetoric, flamboyant displays of ideological intransigence, intense personal rivalries and hyperbolic claims of imminent catastophe.&quot; This reality is invariably overlooked when we grow wistful and nostalgic. We should remember that in the political culture of the day there was no formal recognition of the role of an opposition. As such there can be no doubt that the debates were vitriolic; Indeed, Mr Ellis says: &quot;neither side possessed the verbal or mental capacity to regard the other as anything but treasonable.&quot; Statesmen and gentlemen they undoubtably were, but as this book reminds us, they were also political animals - sometimes savagely so. <br />It is against this backdrop that we can look at the first episode - &quot;THE DUEL&quot; - which illustrates the nature of the relationship between these men. This chapter refers to all the historical versions of the 1804 duel between Burr and Hamilton; the latter man we know lost his life. It explores all that led up to the duel and the fallout from it. Burr is shown to be a reckless opportunist whose influence swiftly waned following Hamilton's death. The author says that despite the differences between the men and their political passions &quot;the energies released by national independence did not devour its own children&quot;; the duel represents the only case in &quot;the revolutionary generation when political difference ended in violence and death rather than in ongoing argument.&quot;<br />The famous DINNER between Jefferson, Madison, and Hamilton in 1790, is the subject of the second chapter. Here the book develops on the men's opposing economic and political visions for the new republic. On one side were the Federalists (Washington, Hamilton and Adams) who advocated &quot;the virtuous surrender of personal, state and sectional interests to the larger purposes of American nationhood.&quot; They saw the nation's economic future tied to commerce and manufacturing; Hamilton's fiscal plan favored bankers, merchants and the urban elite - it would create a national debt and a national bank and conjured up for the opposing Republican's (Jefferson and Madison), an image of the all powerful national government that they had just fought to overthrow. Jeffersonians favored an agrarian economy and saw the true spirit of '76 as a &quot;liberation movement.&quot; Mr Ellis states that the outcome of the dinner was the Compromise of 1790 whereby Hamilton's fiscal policies were agreed on in exchange for assurances for Southerners that the nation's capital would be built on the Potomac River. <br />Another chapter episode is &quot;THE SILENCE&quot; where Mr Ellis sees further compromise. The chapter begins with the arrival of petitions to Congress calling for the abolition of slavery; one such petition was signed by the newly appointed president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society - Benjamin Franklin. The 1790 Congressional debates on the subject were very opinionated; Washington favored Abolition, because Mr Ellis says: &quot;he tended to regard the condition of the black population as a product of nurture rather than nature - that is, he saw slavery as the culprit.&quot; Even slave owners such as Jefferson and Madison called the pro-slavery speeches invoking the defenses of biblical authority and racial superiority, by their proper name - &quot;a moral embarrassment&quot;. They however went no further. Mr Ellis says that in the face of secessionist threats from South Carolina and Georgia, the founding fathers believed the question of Abolition had &quot;the political potential to destroy the union.&quot; Thus the silence. Perhaps Mr Ellis is correct but it reads more like a clear sign (and to be fair, the only time) that the founders had a collective failure of statesmanship. They missed an opportunity to debate the issue; an opportunity that would never come that generation's way again. <br />The last chapter &quot;THE FRIENDSHIP&quot; explores the relationship between Adams and Jefferson. Mr Ellis is clearly an admirer of John Adams and he paints a glowing portrait of the man. &quot;His refreshing and often irreverent candor provides the clearest window into the deeper ambitions and clashing vanities that propelled them all.&quot; Adams hadbeen deserted by the others when he assumed the presidency; he relied on his wife Abigail who effectively served as his one person staff. The author treated with that episode in &quot;THE COLLABORATORS&quot;. Reconciliation between Jefferson and Adams eventually took place and their friendship resumed in 1812; what then followed was a 14 year exchange of letters - 158 in total. <br />This is a well written and insightful book, neatly and succintly bringing to the fore historical and biographical details we have all learned before, but have never read about in so entertaining and refreshing a manner. <br />&quot;The reading of all good books is like conversation with the finest men of past centuries.&quot; (Rene Descartes)	2001-05-20
US	50452306	R22U7GK0FEPDPE	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	11	12	N	N	What price Old Glory?	The price paid to place our flag on Mount Suribachi was very steep indeed; over 80% casualty rate in E Company, 2nd Battalion, 5th Marine Division. There is irony in that the six men who raised the flag didn't necessarily see it as a glorious moment; they certainly were not seeking glory, and the publicity and fame that surrounded them after the photograph came out, was, they felt, better directed at those who they said earned it - their dead comrades on Iwo Jima. <br />The facts of the battle of Iwo Jima bear testimony to the truth of this sentiment.<br />&gt; Of the 100,000 man landing force, over 80,000 were marines. 26,000 marines were either killed or wounded; in some units such as E Company, loss rates were well above what would normally have earned the men a respite - their units being rendered ineffective. Not so here. Withdraw to where? The narrow beach? That was where the Japaese were raining down their artillery and mortars. <br />&gt; In dislodging the Japanese defenders the Americans had to root them out of the burrows and warrens that the surface of Mount Suribachi had been converted into. It was made that much more difficult by the fact that the Japanese would not surrender. All 22,000 defenders were killed. <br />&gt; Medals of Honor are not given out lightly; they were earned on Iwo Jima; this battle had the highest rate of recipients for any single US engagement in WWII. <br />&gt; The marines had been training for this mission for nearly a year; they were well prepared and knew what they were getting into, yet the battle raged on for over 1 month and they suffered attrocious losses.  <br />These points are all brought out in FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS as it is in the description of the training, preparing for, and fighting of the battle of Iwo Jima where the book excells. The author is the son of the last of the six flag raisers to pass on. Former corpsman John Bradley died in 1994; three of the six never left Iwo Jima and Rene Gagnon and Ira Hayes diedof natural causes back home. We learn their names because the book tells us about their lives. The well known photograph serves as the common thread connecting these six lives. The image is world famous; it captured a moment of bravery; it was used to promote war bonds, stir patriotism, and today, 56 years later, is used as an icon for pride and heroism. The book looks closely at the photograph, exploring the meaning of heroism and looking at the difference between the image and the reality of these men's lives. It is here we see a cruel irony arising. The sad postwar life of Hayes and Gagnon stands in stark contrast to all the positive emotions the photograph brings forth. Perhaps the real intention of this book is that by telling the story of these six men we should read it as a tribute to the many men who served their country well but received no recognition for it. <br />Regardless of the postwar life they led, the men who served in WWII should know that their wartime life is recognized and appreciated for what it means to us today; going beyond tributes like FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS, the reality is:<br />&quot;Books are good enough in their own way, but they are a mighty bloodless substitute for life.&quot; (Robert Louis Stevenson)	2001-05-20
US	50452306	REUXSX6GMMCD3	0691010226	359734547	Birds of Kenya and Northern Tanzania	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Birders paradise	A sign of environmental health and richness of biodiversity is the number of birds that a given area supports. Kenya then qualifies as a rich ecosystem with over 1,000 different species of birds.<br />This book was not around when I was a youngster living in Kenya but thumbing through it as an adult has brought back some fond memories of days out in the bush in Amboseli and Masai Mara or at lakes Nakura, Naivasha, and Victoria. Kenya is a birders paradise whatever your interest. There are fairly familiar Eurasian visiting seabirds and shorebirds and unique and beautiful East African sunbirds, weavers, rollers and bee-eaters. There are multitude birds of prey including the unmistakable tiny-tailed Bateleur Eagle and the most impressive hunting bird i've ever seen - the African Crowned Eagle. I can recall like it was yesterday watching one pluck a male colobus monkey right out of the tree tops. All of the birds are here in splendid color with the most appropriate profile presented to assist in making identification easy. You'll find the underside views of the birds of prey very useful. <br />While you probably won't see a Crowned Eagle on a casual birding visit to Kenya, any guided trip into the game parks will guarantee you at least 100 different species - probably in a single day! In the right locations, prepare to have your head on a swivel as the variety of birdlife you will behold has to be seen to be believed. You will find yourself regularly flipping through the pages of this book. This book is absolutely essential for your Kenyan trip.	2001-05-20
US	50452306	R19OTTGYTAAFK7	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	4	123	129	N	N	How much can man endure?	Disappointment and shame for having to surrender at Bataan; humiliation and abuse from the Japanese captors who treated those who surrendered as less than worthy opponents; starvation, exhaustion, and torture on the 70 mile forced trek, known and immortalized as the Bataan death march; punishing, back breaking labor in slave camps. So it was for US servicemen who surrendered at Bataan or who were captured elsewhere in the Philippines in 1942. For one such Army private - Eugene Nielsen, whose story makes up one of the narratives of GHOST SOLDIERS, the three years of his life spent in the Philippines was a perpetual nightmare.<br />Beginning with a description of the torture and execution of prisoners at the Puerto Princesa Prison Camp on Palawan, Philippines, the book describes the daily ordeal - it can't be called life - that these men endured. By December 1944 the Japanese on Palawan knew that it was only a matter of time before the Americans returned. The officer in charge, the one the men called the 'buzzard' decided to rid himself of his prisoner problem. From their positions in trenches the Americans watched as Japanese carrying liquid filled buckets approached. &quot;With a quick jerk of the hands, they flung the contents into the openings of the trenches. By the smell of it on their skin, the Americans instantly recognized what it was - high octane aviation fuel from the airstrip. Before they could apprehend the full significance of it, other soldiers tossed in lighted bamboo torches.&quot; The details provided by the book are obviously gruesome. That Nielsen and 10 others survived the incineration is miraculous. It was these survivors' accounts as told to Army intelligence that prompted the US to send in Rangers to free the 513 Americans held prisoner at Cabanatuan.<br />The narratives of four other survivors is interwoven with the exploits of the Ranger officer who led the mission. &quot;Little MacArthur's&quot; story and that of the other 120 Rangers and 200 Filipino guerrillas who successfully freed the prisoners, is as heroic and as uplifting a story as the survivors tales are grim and gruesome. <br />The author is correct in calling these men the &quot;ultimate survivors.&quot; We can only be glad that there are a few still alive today to retell their story. The author spoke to 30 in researching his book. Similarly with IN HARM'S WAY, this WWII narrative is written by a young man (the author is 39). These survivors who refer to themselves as &quot;Ghosts&quot; because they felt abandoned should take some gratification in knowing that their story is still of great interest and their courage a source of inspiration to young writers today. <br />&quot;It is with books as with men; a very small number play a great part.&quot; (Voltaire)<br />I salute the GHOST SOLDIERS.	2001-05-19
US	50452306	RRIDMJS85NLU6	0805066322	236286596	In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors	Books	5	85	91	N	N	In Indianapolis' wake	In contrast to the strip of glassy smooth water that is a ship's wake, the sinking of the Indianapolis has left nothing behind but roiling emotions. Still easily brought to the surface after all these years - anger at the navy being the most common expression, and as IN HARM'S WAY shows - it is most appropriate. The 1,196 men who went into the water on the morning of July 30, 1945 were abandoned to their fate by the navy. They were left adrift for 5 days, eventually being spotted and rescued by chance; by this time only 321 were left alive, four of whom died shortly thereafter. The navy then rubbed salt into this open wound by blaming one of the survivors - Captain Charles McVay - for &quot;hazarding&quot; his ship.<br />This book is much more a story of men battling the sea and finding the courage to survive than it is a history of the war. As such it is less about the Indianapolis and its mission but more to do with personal drama of the men. It succeeds by drawing on the stories of three survivors - Captain McVay, ship's doctor Lewis Haynes, and Private Giles McCoy. The facts of the tragedy only put the achievement of survival into its proper perspective.<br />&gt; The ship was sunk by a torpedo from Japanese submarine I-58; the explosion killing about 300 of the crew instantly; the wounded as well as the uninjured jumped into the sea. Escaping a fiery death only brought on other dangers &quot;from dozens of probing bacteria and organisms which, as the men drifted, began gnawing at their flesh. The salt water itself was a caustic brew...not unlike immersion in a mild acid bath.&quot;<br />&gt; Perhaps as many as 200 men were eaten alive by sharks. Morning and evening were the sharks feeding times; twice a day for five days the men were preyed on. <br />&gt; Many faced hypothermia and mental and physical exhaustion; for others suffering was in the form of hallucinations and delirium which caused them to swim away to an imaginary rescue or giving up, they drank down sea water which only guaranteed an agonizing death.<br />The author puts it best when he says what this tragedy means to the survivors; &quot;the disaster of the Indy is their My Lai massacre or Watergate, a touchstone moment of historic disappointment: the navy put them in harm's way, hundreds of men died violently, and then the government refused to acknowledge its culpability.&quot; Perhaps the only good that this tragedy has produced is that it has spurred young writers like Doug Stanton to preserve these stories of human courage before all the remaining survivors slip under the waves of time. The author at 39 is a little younger than I am, but by writing and by reading these books, we, as a generation can honor the men who fought, died, and survived WWII.<br />The only glory in war is surviving.<br />&quot;All the glory of the world would be buried in oblivion, unless God had provided mortals with the remedy of books.&quot; (Bishop Richard De Bury)	2001-05-19
US	50452306	RP1GR50D776AZ	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The machete and masu as tools of state policy	Rwanda, 'the land of a thousand hills' is a beautiful country. Green and mist shrouded - &quot;eucalyptus trees flash silver against brilliant tea plantations; banana trees are everywhere.&quot; Apart from Kigali, the urban capital, the country is largely agricultural. There are also many churches dotting the hillsides. From April to early July 1994 Rwanda was no longer green and there was no pastoral tranquility. The countryside was stained red with blood and churches and schools were no longer sources of the simple life but were instead sites for gruesome massacres of tens of thousands of people. <br />What makes the Rwandan genocide by extremist Hutus and their militia, the interahamwe, so chilling, and the telling of it in WE WISH TO INFORM YOU... so beyond comprehension, is not only the scope of it - 800,000 people butchered in about 100 days, but also the familiarity surrounding the killings. These were &quot;neighbors, schoolmates, colleagues, sometimes friends, even in-laws.&quot; A further degree of revulsion is added when you consider the choice of weapon used - mostly machete, knife, and masu (nail studded club). It shows that the killers cared little for anonymity; the massacres were not, metaphorically speaking, at arms length, but were instead very personal - the murderers wanted their victims to know who killed them.  <br />Obviously the big question this crime poses is why?, and Philip Gourevitch like everyone else when faced with a genocide, struggles with the answer. He says &quot;considering the enormity of the task, it is tempting to play with theories of collective madness, mob mania, a fever of hatred erupted into a mass crime of passion, and to imagine the blind orgy of the mob, with each member killing one of two people.&quot; The book however makes it clear that this is an unsatisfactory explanation. Something else was  at work, sustaining the killing once the initial frenzy had passed, driving hundreds of thousands of Hutus who &quot;workedas killers in regular shifts&quot; to keep butchering Tutsis. Gourevitch says plainly &quot;mass violence must be organized; it does not occur aimlessly. Even mobs and riots have a design, and great and sustained destruction requires great ambition.&quot; <br />Can we then allow ourselves to breathe a little easier now that we know that this evil does not arise spontaneously from within but must first be stoked by external forces? Can we simply blame the state, politics, economics, cultural history, and the ancient memory of injustices? In Rwanda's case add colonialism, religion and ethnicity to the mix. Left as a mere description of the attrocities, this book would simply be sensationalism, but it is far from that. Gourevitch explores the history of Rwanda and while he shows that there are many contributing local factors, his book also shows up the complicity of the international community in two ways:<br />(1) There were very visible signs for all to see that trouble was brewing; the genocide therefore was preventable. Particularly so since there was a history of Hutu persecution of the minority Tutsi and there had been a previous slaughter of 10,000 Tutsis in 1959.<br />(2) Belgium and France were blinded by colonial perceptions and interpretations of the issues, seeing a 'tribal war' and a 'peoples genocide'. The latter being used as explanation in that the Hutus were rising up against attacks by the Tutsi dominated guerilla group - the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). The UN and the US were simply immobilized by policy. In the case of the UN, policy was ineffective, and for the US, there was simply a policy vacuum when it came to Rwanda.    <br />I have read elsewhere that the US position was guided by our previous experience in Somalia and I believe that. What also seems to have been at work here is the influence of two writers and their work on the thinking, and inaction, of the Whitehouse on the Rwandan genocide. Samuel Huntington's CLASH OF CIVILIZATIONS andRobert Kaplan's essay THE COMING ANARCHY, spoke about 'new tribalism' and 'virulent nationalism'; ideas which also contributed to the paralysis that gripped the Pentagon when it came time to contemplate involvement in ENS (ethnic, nationalistic and secessionist) warfare. It's a well known fact that president Clinton quoted Kaplan as defense (contrary to the author's intention) against US involvement in Bosnia. The same thinking was applied here.<br />ENS, new tribalism or whatever other euphemism or jargon jingling sound bites policy makers choose to come up with, genocide is a crime against humanity and there is no obfuscating the issue. Inaction in the face of it is almost as great a crime as the killings. This is the blunt, condemnatory message of WE WISH TO INFORM YOU...	2001-05-18
US	50452306	R3LJQ8N00PL1QZ	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Abandon ship; abandoned by the navy	During WWII, sailors who heeded the command to Abandon ship did so with the assumption that everything that needed to be done in preparation for this drastic measure had been taken care of. Communications had been sent out, last known position had been given out as well as course and speed; usually some indication of when help would arrive would be received. If however the ship went down too fast for confirmation, it was a safe bet that once you were noticed missing a search would be launched. That was the belief, the expectation, the bedrock principle upon which sailors acted when they took the plunge and jumped overboard.<br />ABANDON SHIP is the story of the betrayal of this trust, made all the more poignant when you realize that of the 1,196 men who went into the water, only 317 survived. The ordeal not being enough, the taste of it was made bitter for the survivors when the navy blamed one of their own - Captain Charles McVay for the tragedy. <br />ABANDON SHIP was originally written in 1958 and reissued this year. The new introduction and afterword, we would expect, would tell us about the ways in which the navy has righted these wrongs over the intervening years, honoring the survivors, clearing Captain McVay's name, and telling the tale of the heroic deeds of the Indianapolis and her men. We would expect this. This however has proven to be as false a hope as the sailors had in 1945 when they believed that the navy would rescue them.<br />The story remains relevant not only for the incredible tragedy that befell these sailors but also for their courage and endurance for surviving at all. To survive being adrift for 100 hours in the sea without protection from the salt and the sun and without sustenance is close to miraculous. Spirit alone, it seems to me, is part of the explanation. I can almost imagine the anger when the men realized that they had been abandoned; then their determination to survive if for no other reason than to tell this tale of massive, criminal neglect by a US institution.<br />The book has a list of the names of the original survivors. As time has passed on so have many of these men. Hopefully it won't only be books like this one and others such as IN HARM'S WAY and the readers like us, who pay honor to these men; hopefully the navy will finally sail forward, and do right.	2001-05-18
US	50452306	R25Q0ONPWSV8QQ	0375702431	619985996	The Nature of Economies	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Jane's Dialogue...	...It doesn't have quite the same ring about it as does Plato's dialogues, and obviously, nowhere near the same significance. What THE NATURE OF ECONOMIES and Plato do have in common is the use of dialogue as a structure to allow debate and as a means of getting the point across. Here, the debate is among four fictional characters (Hiram seems to be the stand in for Ms Jacobs). <br />Does it work? Partially. Ms Jacobs methodology allows her to bring in different views from various fields of study: sociology, ecology, anthropology, history and, off couse - economics. I'm no engineer but I recognize when she tips her hat in that direction with referrences to feedback loops, codevelopments, and refueling.<br />Actually, the book reads like it would feel right at home in that specialist subject area known as systems theory. I think that's deliberate. The system that is referred to frequently throughout is nature. Her central argument is that economies behave like natural systems, and they can only be understood holistically and ecologically. As Hiram says &quot;working along with natural principles of development, expansion, sustainability and correction, people can create economies that are more reliably prosperous than those we have now and that are also more harmonious with the rest of nature.&quot;<br />I said earlier that the dialogue format worked partially. It does a good job of bringing the central point across, but not such a good job of developing on it. Jane Jacobs is best known for taking contrarian positions on most traditional theories and this little book, under 200 pages, is too short to provide a proper sythesis, and to explain it sufficiently.	2001-05-15
US	50452306	R1EK7JLB0GIK2F	0312270127	373788620	Dreambirds: The Strange History of the Ostrich in Fashion, Food and Fortune	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Struthio camelus - the sparrow camel	You don't need to know much more than the biological name of the common ostrich to know that this is a weird bird. Sparrow camel!, what is that? Obviously the ornithologists who discovered the bird were confused about it; as confused, perhaps as the ostrich sometimes looks with it's blank, non-blinking stare. Have you ever seen one up close? The term 'bird brain' is appropriate. <br />This is all rather unkind, and in fact, unfair to the ostrich. A bird rumored to be so dumb that it supposedly sticks it's head into the sand when threatened; actually we are the dummies if we believe this bit of folklore - it's a myth. The ostrich is in fact remarkably well adapted to it's environment - the savannas of Eastern and Southern Africa, and has had a close association with man for the better part of a century, providing us with food and making fortunes for us.<br />It is this relationship between man and ostrich that Mr Nixon explores in DREAMBIRDS, specifically his remembrances of the bird from his childhood in South Africa. A town called Oudtshoorn, near where he grew up, was, before WWI, the capital of the worldwide ostrich feather industry. In its heyday it supplied 100,000 tons of plumes to the fashion centers of Europe. The town was then known as the Jerusalem of Africa - a consequence of the large resident community of jewish feather merchants. <br />That's about all the history there is though. The book is a more a biography, and the ostrich is the common theme, the link between Nixons early youth in South Africa and his adult life in his adopted home - the US. We run into the bird at the ostrich races in Chandler, Arizona and again at various ranches throughout the Southwest. It's not only places, but people that are mentioned. There are some interesting characters involved in the ostrich business. One of the central people in the book is Mr Nixons father, and we are treated to a bit of reminiscing about the relationship between father and son.   DREAMBIRDS is a well written and humorous look at this &quot;gawky, boneheaded creature&quot;; gladly it's light on the father and son dynamic, but sadly it's also light on the development and history of the industry.  For lovers of birds and biographies.	2001-05-14
US	50452306	R1Y7YMUKIR2WO3	0674350928	352401860	Germans into Nazis	Books	3	30	39	N	N	The metamorphosis of Germans	The books title, GERMANS INTO NAZIS implies an unasked question - how did this happen? The answer, according to Peter Fritzsche, is quite straightforward. First of all, it had nothing to do with any of the following:<br />&gt; Bitterness over the Versailles Treaty<br />&gt; The inadequacy of the Republic and the ineffectiveness of Hindenburg as President<br />&gt; Economic despair associated with the Inflationszeit or hyperinflation crisis<br />&gt; The Great Depression<br />&gt; Anti-Semitism<br />No, none of these. Fritzsche says &quot;it should be stated clearly that Germans became Nazis because they wanted to become Nazis and because the Nazis spoke so well to their interests and inclinations.&quot; The removal of anti-semitism as a motivator would seem to contradict Daniel Goldhagen's thesis in HITLERS WILLING EXECUTIONERS, where it is argued that persecuting Jews was the raison d'etre for Nazis. Also, Ian Kershaw in HUBRIS, in studying the motivating factors in the life stories of 581 Nazi party members, found that less than 75 were driven by anti-semitism. If Fritzsche is correct and the interests and inclinations that caused Germans to metamorphose into Nazis do not include social and economic factors, then what else is there? Answer - politics. <br />The political organization, the devotion to the cause, the energy, and the message of the Nazis; all are shown to have had significant appeal to the populous. The Nazis were organized if nothing else. They held 2,370 public meetings throughout Germany in 1925 and by 1929 they had 3,400 party branches across the country. Their ideological appeal was based on their portrayal of themselves as &quot;a party that was constructive, that would move  forward and bring Germans together in a militant Volksgemeinschaft&quot; (community of people). <br />Fritzsche is fairly dry and prosaic in the manner in which he goes about making the case that it was the political aspirations of the people that the Nazis most appealed to. Yet he marshals sufficient evidence to be convincing. <br />What role did Hitler play in all of this? You'll have to read about that elsewhere as Fritzsche has very little to say about him in the entire book. This seemed strange at first but it's in keeping with a truism that the great Hitler biographers have recognized. To understand Hitler you have also to look at German society. Fritzsche does not say as much, but his books emphasis on the power of politics in German society is testimony enough to that fact.	2001-05-13
US	50452306	R2396C7JLAR8YM	0375501517	61094722	The Island of Lost Maps: A True Story of Cartographic Crime	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Bland: the name of the thief, not the contents of the book	Gilbert Bland, a Florida antique dealer was arrested outside the Peabody Library in Baltimore in 1995. In his possession were some of the library's rare maps; Gilbert had neatly sliced them out of Atlases with a razor. As Bland's story unfolds we learn that over the years he had stolen nearly 250 maps worth $500,000, and had subsequently sold them to unsuspecting map collectors. For this, the author calls him &quot;the Al Capone of cartography, the greatest American map thief in history.&quot; THE ISLAND OF LOST MAPS is the story of Gilbert Bland and cartography.<br />When the book sticks to cartography it's fine. Especially when we read about some of the quirky behavior of the &quot;curious subculture made up of map historians, map librarians, map dealers, and map collectors - all gripped by an obsession both surreal and sublime.&quot; The story of W. Graham Arader III, the &quot;Bill Gates&quot; of the map world is a case in point. He operates in the rarefied air of map collecting where a single map can sell for $2,000,000. Also, what word but eccentric, could be used to describe a little trick used by cartographers to keep tabs on their work. They draw a ridiculously named cul-de-sac somewhere on their map. If another company's street map depicts this 'trap street', the only conclusion that can be drawn is that the original was plagiarized.<br />The book disappoints when the subject moves from cartography to Gilbert Bland - for two reasons. Look no further than the man's name for the first. Gilbert was...well...bland. A map dealer who knew him is quoted as saying &quot;there was no personality...nothing there.&quot; Therefore when the book spends a lot of time exploring motives, looking at Bland's Vietnam service record, interviewing his family - we lose interest. How else can it be if the subject is a boring person? The second let down comes, when, failing to get Gilbert's side of the story (Bland, while in jail, and after his release, refused to talk to Mr Harvey), the author then engages in a bit of psychoanalysis. According to Mr Harvey, Gilbert Bland is like Sir Walter Raleigh in that they were both motivated by an urge for conquest. Also, do we really need to explore the relationship between Bland and his father? Mr Harvey gets a little bit metaphysical which made me get a little bit queasy. &quot;With each passing month, it seemed that I was searching less for an actual person named Gilbert Bland than for some dark and unexplored part of my own existence.&quot; <br />Read the book for the history and folklore of cartography and for the interesting personal stories of those involved in map making and map collecting....	2001-05-12
US	50452306	R1OZZQWFJPVPV	0609607995	769420448	IBM and the Holocaust: The Strategic Alliance between Nazi Germany and America's Most Powerful Corporation	Books	3	17	27	N	N	The final solutions company?	Very early in IBM AND THE HOLOCAUST Edwin Black says &quot;knowing that IBM has always billed itself as a 'solutions' company...I promised myself I would one day answer the question: how many solutions did IBM provide to Nazi Germany?&quot; Although he then goes on to say that &quot;the Holocaust would still have occurred without IBM&quot;, there is a distinct argumentative structure about the book that strongly implies otherwise. Does Mr Black really believe that IBM provided the Nazis with their long sought for final solution to the Jewish question? To be sure there is a preponderance of data here, sufficient to condemn IBM for doing business with the Nazis. Further, the fees earned by Dehomag (IBM's German subsidiary) and booked as income by IBM in New York are perhaps best described as blood money. There are however other considerations, which, to me, reduce the impact of his book and will ultimately, I think, relegate it to the status of being a sensationalist, short-term bestseller. But, first the indisputable facts: <br />There is no doubt that Dehomag provided IBM punch card machines and a card sorting system to the Nazis. In so doing, Mr Black says &quot;IBM Germany, using its own staff and equipment, designed, executed, and supplied the indispensable technologic assistance Hitler's Third Reich needed to accomplish what had never been done before - the automation of human destruction.&quot; Some of the evidenciary facts supporting this indictment are as follows:<br />(1) In Auschwitz, the SS tattooed 5 digit card-sorting machine numbers on the arms of prisoners. <br />(2) In keeping with its origins as a census tabulating company, Dehomag invented the racial census -&quot;listing not just religious affiliation, but bloodline&quot;. This allowed the Nazis to more effectively identify Jews and compile their lists.  <br />(3) The card-punching machines were used in helping make the logistics systems of the Wehrmacht and Reichsbahn (state railway) more efficient; the same was true for slave labor concentration camps.<br />Now for some of the other considerations. There is no doubt that Mr Black put in a lot of time, effort and expense into his  research, nor can we fault his sincerity and personal interest. Indeed he recalls the moment when he decided to investigate IBM's role in assisting the Nazis; viewing one of the IBM Hollerith card sorting machines in the Holocaust Museum in Washington he remembers, &quot;I turned to my mother and father who accompanied me to the museum that day and promised I would discover more.&quot; He tells us why. &quot;My parents are Holocaust survivors.&quot; With all due respect to Mr Black, compassion and righteous indignation are certainly powerful motivators but they are best put aside when writing a history book. Mr Black remains angry throughout and while it means that he largely ignores the role IBM played in assisting the Allies with code breaking activities at Bletchly Park, this is still only a minor issue of objectivity. More serious damage was done to the readability of the book by his hyperbole and worse yet, as you read on, you get the distinct impression that the thesis went something like this:- 'IBM is guilty of heinous crimes,...let's find the evidence'. <br />Overall the book provides a new perspective on the Holocaust. It is powerful in its depiction of the malevolence of state power; scary in its implications for our cyber age by showing what can happen when technology and information are abused; and sobering in reminding us that corporate motives are seldom humanistic. IBM AND THE HOLOCAUST is a very sad commentary on society and organizational behavior but the main argument of the book - that the IBM Hollerith machines were the key to the effectiveness of the Holocaust - gets lost in a swirl of sensationalism. The final outcome is that I am left with the belief that it's sophistry, not history.	2001-05-11
US	50452306	R3O04B9FB7VVAU	067103605X	925154549	The White Man in the Tree and Other Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	(Caribbean) basin full of personalities	Truth is stranger than fiction. Not always. When penned by Mark Kurlansky both are equally extraordinary. Not satisfied with being a Caribbean reporter for the Chicago Tribune, he became a successful non-fiction writer (COD and THE BASQUE HISTORY OF THE WORLD). Now, with THE WHITE MAN IN THE TREE, it's fiction and very obvious that he is equally at ease in the imagination, and also very much at home in the Caribbean.<br />THE WHITE MAN IN A TREE is a novella and collection of other witty - sometimes wickedly so - short stories; all about life in the Caribbean, principally Haiti, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and French Guiana. What makes the book so enjoyable - besides Kurlansky's easy prose and comfort with the vernacular - is how he tackles the sociologically complex and serious issues that arise in such a potent admixture of people, places and cultures. Miscegnation is frought with portents of political correctness; rather than being shied away, Mr Kurlansky uses it as the theme to explore the misunderstandings and mistakes that are the common denominator of the humanly rich and diverse Caribbean.<br />For anyone who has lived in the area the tales will ring true. The complexity of motives and resulting eccentricity of behaviour that seems so weird to visitors is perfectly captured and explained, with a locals' shrug of the shoulders by Mr Kurlansky. Underlying all is the constant rhythm of the Caribbean sense of humor, which Mr Kurlansky has in abundance and with which he writes with abandon. <br />Misunderstandings and misjudgements aside, a sense of play is the one thing in common in the Caribbean; a necessary ingredient for living there and required of anybody who wishes to understand the region.	2001-05-10
US	50452306	RA17TVYKLJI0M	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	&quot;A catalogue of quirks and superlatives&quot;	That's what David Quammen says island biogeography is all about. Unintentionally he is also describing his own book. Some of the quirks of nature catalogued here are surf-diving iguanas, pygmy hippos, the Kakapo (world's largest parrot - flightless and nocturnal), and the Komodo dragon with its septic saliva. Biogeography is &quot;the study of the facts and patterns of species distribution&quot; and islands are &quot;natural laboratories of extravagant evolutionary experimentation.&quot; The two together then provide us with a scientific methodology for explaining the superlatives of island life. <br />THE SONG OF THE DODO does just that in a very readable and thorougly enjoyable way. Islands have played a primary role in the development of the theory of evolution, so we should not be surprised to find out that pioneers such as Alfred Russell Wallace, Joseph Hooker and, most famously Charles Darwin, were all island hoppers. Mr Quammen takes us on an excursion of islands, retracing some of these journeys of discovery. We visit Indonesia, the Midriff islands in the Gulf of California, the Galapagos islands, Guam, Madagascar and Tasmania. <br />We learn the science of the subject: the &quot;signature features&quot; of island species, their dispersal ability, adaption radiation and size change ratios. One of these patterns is that, on islands, mammals are usually small and reptiles are huge. Case in point of the latter: the 10 foot, 200 lb Komodo dragon. The species/area relationship, and its equation, get a bit of attention. All science has its revolutionary moments and Mr Quammen sees the creation of the equation as island biogeography's moment, leading to a signal event - the publishing of THE THEORY OF ISLAND BIOGEOGRAPHY by Robert MacArthur and Edward O Wilson. <br />The book is part travelogue, biography, history of evolution, and pure popular science writing. The discussion jumps about, not in confusion, but in recognition of the many people and places that havehad an influence on the emergence of island biogeography as a field of study. A corollary of this is that island biogeography has a lot to say about events taking place today in many areas of the world. Extinction events of the past: the demise of the Tasmanian tiger, passenger pigeon, and the Dodo, are all explained. So too are current events such as the massive die off of local fauna taking placing on Guam. Ecosystem decay is its euphemistic name and it's happenening all around us. Mr Quammen closes with a discussion of what island biogeography has to offer for conservation management.<br />&quot;Nature and books belong to the eyes that see them&quot; (Ralph Waldo Emerson)<br />Mr Quammen knows of what Emerson speaks; can we too learn to see nature? THE SONG OF THE DODO is just the book to help us do that.	2001-05-09
US	50452306	RSMYIBD28QCJ7	0684849658	296754979	Taking Wing: Archaeopteryx and the Evolution of Bird Flight	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Ancient flight plan	TAKING WING is the story of Archaeopteryx and therefore it's about the origins of birds and the evolution of flight. Beginning with a history of the 8 fossil remains (7 skeletons and 1 feather) we read about the dozens of people from the myriad sciences (paleontology, biology, ornithology, aeronautics and engineering) that have puzzled over the significance of Archaeopteryx lithographica (Ancient wing from the printing stone). Even the name seems a puzzle until you realize it's named for the smooth limestone slabs that were used in printing. The quarries where most of the fossils were found are in Germany.<br />One of the persons mentioned in the book is John Ostrom, who Ms Shipman gives full credit for reviving the dinosaur to bird hypothesis for the evolution of aves (birds). Arguments over the origins of birds are legion, and with good reason says Ms Shipman. The morphology of Archaeopteryx &quot;is genuinely ambiguous.&quot; Just where do birds belong in the taxonomy of life? Ms Shipman talks about the morphology of hands and wings and provides an interesting synopsis of two different ways of interpreting evolutionary anatomy - homology and analogy. Very briefly, homology looks for evolutionary modifications of some common structure wheras analogy sees similarities based on function, not on common descent. <br />The two, big, bird questions are:<br />(1) Did birds descend from dinosaurs or from some older common reptilian ancestor of both dinosaurs and birds?<br />(2) How did birds learn to fly. &quot;Down from the trees,&quot; parachuting, then gliding, then powered flight or &quot;up from the ground,&quot; running, then hopping, then flapping to get airborne?<br />Ms Shipman, after offering a balanced and detailed analysis of the subject, has her own opinion. She states that predatory dinosaurs known as theropods are &quot;the most probable ancestors of birds.&quot; On the question of flying she says, &quot;I am now convinced that Archaeopteryx was such a large-winged creature that it could take off from the ground, with either a reptilian or an avian physiology.&quot;<br />I'm just as impressed with Archaeopteryx as I am with the vast amounts of scientific research trying to explain its origins. For a little creature no bigger than a crow, that lived 150 million years ago, this book is a rather impressive tribute.	2001-05-09
US	50452306	R3BZRZAIKRXJE4	0393320359	46961500	Hitler: 1889-1936 Hubris	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Heil Hubris!...	...the book, not the attitude. The incredible arrogance of Hitler, when we read here, what he said to the German people: &quot;that you have found me...among so many millions is the miracle of our time! And that I have found you, that is Germany's fortune!&quot; Before we reach this moment of utter self absorbtion that took place in 1936, we have to read through this brilliant biography, HITLER 1889-1936: Hubris.<br />Keeping with the recent tradition exemplified by Peter Fritzsche's GERMANS INTO NAZIS, the new view of Hitler is that he can no longer be seen as the author of his own destiny. Mr Kershaw says plainly that modern biographies of Hitler cannot answer questions about the man by focusing exclusively on him, but only by analyzing German society. He does not go as far as Daniel Goldhagen did in HITLERS WILLING EXECUTIONERS where, unintentionally, Hitler is 'excused', by blaming rabid anti-semitism on the ordinary German.<br />Mr Kershaw has little interest in psychological theories (particularly psychosexual ones), as explanations for Hitler's behavior. He refers to them but generally says that they are incidental to any true understanding, especially since there is insufficient information available. One such theory is that Hitler's anti-semitism stemmed from the illicit liaison of his grandmother which produced Alois - Hitler's father. Proponents say that Hitler's grandfather may have been a Jew, Kershaw simply says that the &quot;baptismal register left a blank in the space allocated to the baby's father. The name of Hitler's paternal grandfather was not disclosed and, despite much speculation, has remained unknown ever since.&quot;  <br />Some of the themes that are developed by Mr Kershaw are as follows:<br />POLITICAL GOOD FORTUNE and OPPORTUNISM. Hitler's portrayal of himself as a man of political convictions in MEIN KAMPF, is meretricious as, Mr Kershaw shows, rather than acting with intent, or being a triumph of the will, Hitler was simply the master of taking advantage of opportunity. The revolutionary incidents in Munich in 1919 and Hitler's attempted revolt against the national government in 1923, are actually &quot;shaped by circumstance, opportunism, good fortune and, not least, the backing of the army...Hitler did not come to politics, but politics came to him.&quot;  <br />GOVERNANCE. One of the consequences of this opportunism is that it had an effect on how Hitler governed. The greatest feat of Hitler's political career was his maneuvering himself into the position of Reich Chancellor in 1933. Precipitously &quot;the 'nobody of Vienna', 'unknown soldier', beerhall demagogue, head of what was for years no more than a party of the lunatic fringe of politics, a man with no credentials for running a complicated state machine...had now been placed in charge of government of one of the leading states in Europe.&quot; The result was that there was a state &quot;without any central coordinating body and with a head of government, largely disengaged...&quot;<br />POWER is the central thread that runs throughout HUBRIS and connects all of Mr Kershaw's themes together. He says, &quot;what has continued in the writing of the book to interest me, is not just how this initially most unlikely pretender to high state office could gain power, but how he was able to extend that power until it became absolute.&quot;<br />'WORKING TOWARDS THE FUHRER.' Mr Kershaw is at his brilliant best in developing this theme. The words were spoken by Hitler's agriculture minister in a speech in 1934. In arguing that it was not possible for Hitler to order from above, everything that was required, the people should therefore cease to await such orders. Mr Kershaw states what was said next. &quot;Rather, however, it is the duty of every single person to attempt, in the spirit of the Fuhrer, to work towards him.&quot; This spurred a new type of voluntarism by the people, and also set off a struggle between state agencies in the competition for influence. There was a concomitant progression towards the primacy of politics and politics also became increasingly violent. This setting &quot;invited radical initiatives from below.&quot; The origins of the final solution for the Jews can be seen in this context. In general, and in conclusion, working towards the Fuhrer enabled Hitler to accomplish things he wanted done without relying on institutional apparatus. This only served to strengthen his personal mastery and power over party, state, and the people.<br />Biography should be written by an acute enemy (Arthur James Balfour)<br />We all qualify as enemies of Hitler but only a few could write a biography to match this one.	2001-05-09
US	50452306	R1QXZS5EE03S03	0226901319	315705049	The Truly Disadvantaged: The Inner City, the Underclass, and Public Policy	Books	4	46	50	N	N	Criticized by both left and right; so well worth reading	A sure indication that you have arrived at an independent, intellectual, and honest position is the degree to which both sides of the ideological fence find fault with your work. Mr Wilson experienced that with his earlier book THE DECLINING SIGNIFICANCE OF RACE, the radical liberal left, excoriated him as selling out his race and lambasted his work as cultural determinism. With THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED, Mr Wilson gives as good as he gets. <br />Cogently he argues that the Great Society architects thought that creating educational, training, and development programs would, by their very existence, simply cause poverty to shrink. There was very little analysis of the impact that changes in the US economy would have - not only on the programs, but on the beneficiaries. One telling indication that his finger is on the correct pulse - economics - is this: in nearly every year that unemployment has risen and wages have fallen, poverty has grown worse, yet &quot;when the economy has picked up, poverty has lessened.&quot; <br />There are a couple of things that are significant about this book, which, even now, 14 years later, makes it one of the more useful and original analyses even done on US urban problems.<br />(1) When it was written, in the late 1980's the economic trends that Mr Wilson so clearly elucidates as the problem were still largely unstudied, especially the interconnectivity and complexity of the issues. Mr Wilson says conservative writers such as Charles Murray are incorrect when they proclaim that because poverty rates were as high in the 1980's as they were in the 1960's, the Great Society programs were failures. This neglects, or conveniently ignores, the fact that there was a doubling of the unemployment rate, which disproportionately affected blacks. The causes of huge unemployment rates amongst young black men are less to do with racism, but more the following: the mechanization of southern agriculture, the large number of baby-boomers and white womenwho entered the labor market in the 1970's, and the profound shift of the economy from manufacturing to service industries. Blacks were heavily represented in manufacturing and the decline in key sectors such as automobile, rubber, and steel had a particularly deleterious effect on black employment. <br />(2) While it can be seen that THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED was in part, a response to conservative analyses of the issues, this book is not a rhetorical rejoinder. There was significant new material brought forward by Mr Wilson and the focus was on an objective assessment of cause; not on ascribing blame to racism, culture, or government policy. I remember reading UNHEAVENLY CITY REVISITED as part of an Urban Studies course at college in the 1980's and what has remained with me, and is heightened when compared with Mr Wilson's book, is the rather shallow analysis of the former, and its emphasis on cultural and social factors as determinants for urban decay. I graduated before Mr Wilson's book was published, so have no idea if it was used as a text. It should be.<br />This book stands as an insightful look into the causes of urban decay and poverty; it highlighted economic trends that were not seen by others and it came out at a time when competing scholars were offering only narrow, single source answers. If you prefer one of the latter, there is non better than LOSING GROUND which lays the blame for black poverty squarely at the feet of government policy. <br />&quot;A book is a version of the world. If you do not like it, ignore it; or offer your own version in return&quot; (Salman Rushdie)<br />We're still waiting for an equally well-reasoned and rounded version as this one.	2001-05-06
US	50452306	R386BCY43JIZG6	046509824X	643996026	The Remedy: Class, Race, And Affirmative Action	Books	4	9	12	N	N	It's what King and Kennedy wanted...	...and I suppose, for some, that automatically means that we should not want it now. Such persons may also be of the view that &quot;all black folk need to do, is change their culture and get jobs&quot;. For the rest of us living in the real USA, it is patently clear that race, poverty, and government (specifically public policies dealing with these issues) will always be with us, whether we like it or not. <br />It is against this background, that THE REMEDY is offered. Its very name is offered as a portent of what is possible if we could dispense with the ideologues and polemicists. The book is actually quite moderate, thoughtful and most importantly - egalitarian. Some of the points that that the book develops on are:<br />(1) Martin Luther King, Jr and Robert Kennedy never endorsed racial preferences; the arguments supporting affirmative action were always couched in terms of it being a compensatory program that would benefit the disadvantaged of all races.<br />(2) Only an affirmative action based on class will provide genuine individual equal opportunity; this for both poor blacks and poor whites. <br />(3) Mr Kahlenberg says that after King and Kennedy, a shift took place in the 1970's; from compensation to diversity - &quot;from racial preferences as a temporary bridge to color-blindness, to racial preferences as a  permanent way of life.&quot; Mr Kahlenberg is considerate of conservative sensibilities by not pointing out that it was under a Republican that affirmative action first bacame race based. John David Skretny in THE IRONIES OF AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, and others, have pointed out that it was used as part of a brilliant wedge strategy by Nixon to drive working class unionized white males, and southern whites, out of the Democratic Party and to the Republicans. It worked. <br />Mr Kahlenberg proposes a formula or method for calculating disadvantage. It is sufficiently encompassing, taking the following into consideration: parental income, occupation, education, net worth, family structure and neighborhood factors.  There are many who would wish this whole affirmative action debate to go away. This book is not for them; they can relax and forget about the poor. Meantime, for more thoughtful persons it may be refreshing to know that, generally, as a nation, we still remain committed to our universalistic ideals. In an opinion poll done by PUBLIC AGENDA in 1998, over 87% of individuals polled said it was essential that there should be equal opportunity for people regardless of their race, religion or sex. Even on the supposedly contentious issue of affirmative action, a GALLUP POLL done in January, 2000 found that nearly 60% of us are still in favor of affirmative action.	2001-05-06
US	50452306	R2PX4TPXD7A06R	0679724176	995209340	When Work Disappears : The World of the New Urban Poor	Books	4	12	19	N	N	Socioeconomic roots of urban rot	It is a bit ironic that a sociologist (as Mr Wilson is) would stress economic causal factors, while economists (such as Thomas Sowell) frequently refer to the sociocultural determinants (emphasis on cultural). Ironic, but understandable, especially if you view all human behavior (including the books that scholars write), as having sociopolitical motives (emphasis on political). That is is what makes this book so refreshing. WHEN WORK DISAPPEARS offers explanations other than the tiresome cant of cultural deterministic causes favored by 'cant'servatives, and the acidic analyses by 'vitrioliberals' who incessantly blame racism. <br />Mr Wilson states that the inner cities have seen the disappearance of unskilled factory jobs; the low wage economy was characterized by stable black neighborhoods, and even with low pay, the situation was sustainable. These neighborhoods are gone and have been replaced by crime-infested slums. The causal factor is global economic reorganization, not racism, nor culture (although Mr Wilson does refer to &quot;ghetto-related behavior and attitudes&quot;). <br />Blaming racism is a meretricios argument, especially when analyses such as Michael Dawsons' BEHIND THE MULE show that blacks are themselves divided on the issue. Upper income blacks are much more likely than lower income blacks to blame poor blacks for their own plight. The complexity of the matter is further illustrated by works such as Jennifer Hochschilds' FACING UP TO THE AMERICAN DREAM where she says that poor, urban, blacks are optimistic about the eventual success of the next generation, and they are often &quot;touchingly gratified by their own or their children's progress.&quot;. <br />Mr Wilson is obviously aware of this complexity, and he shows that he is not politically naive. He rejects the favored term of conservatives - the underclass - when refering to the inner city poor. Some argue that it is used as a euphemism for lumpen. Mr Wilson calls the word an &quot;epithet.&quot; The specious argument that 'racism is to blame' and the cruel 'change your culture and get a job' policy prescription, should be rejected as that of blinkered polemicists.  <br />If the book has a fault it is in its policy prescriptions. Without providing sufficient details as to how the remedial programs will be paid for, there is scope for criticism that Mr Wilson is proposing increased spending by a larger federal bureaucracy. He refers to the role that private sector companies have in hiring former welfare recipients, but he seems pessimistic about the prospects. What else then? Certainly, Mr Wilson knows that the probability of an enlarged government role in a new war on poverty is slim to none.	2001-05-05
US	50452306	R2I881XAEYVTNR	0684844974	842366392	America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible	Books	3	26	37	N	N	No gray areas?	In contrast to the title of the book - AMERICA IN BLACK AND WHITE, it is rare that the subject of race relations can be discussed in such black and white terms. There is definitely a gray area on most issues.<br />The Thernstroms however, argue otherwise. On one hand are their views and on the other is the opinion of the &quot;chattering classes.&quot; Whites who are in favor of affirmative action, in their view, support &quot;policies built on deference to black victimization through which they can display their racial virtue.&quot; The book however is not vitriol, and it does have a central argument. Two of the main points developed on are:<br />(1) Black progress has been substantial; progress began post WWII, long before the civil rights movement. The civil rights movement therefore, has  been given too much credit for the progress blacks have made in this century.  <br />(2) Affirmative action is a mistake and it is &quot;manifestly absurb&quot; that these programs have improved conditions for blacks. <br />The Thernstroms use a wealth of polling data to support their points, and seemingly present a solid case for progress. For instance:<br />&gt; &quot;In 1958, 44% of whites said they would move if a black family became their next door neighbor; today, the figure is 1%&quot;<br />&gt; By  1997, &quot;a Gallup Poll found 83% of whites aged 18 to 34 approved of interracial marriage. (The figure for blacks in the same bracket was 86%).&quot;<br />Yet, there are other data sets that show conflicting views. How do we reconcile data from AMERICAN APARTHEID by Douglas Massey and Nancy Denton with that of this book? Massey and Denton show that there is a high degree of residential segregation still existing with whites having &quot;little tolerance&quot; for residential racial mixture beyond 20% black. Other studies, using data in Stanley Lieberson's and Mary Waters' FROM MANY STRANDS go beyond calculating residential segregation to indicating marital isolation. Orlando Patterson has calculated that the odds that an African-American woman will marry an African-American man are 27,444 times greater than that a non African-American woman will marry an African-American man. Lastly, a statewide special election was held in Alabama last November. The purpose being overturning the state's anti-miscegnation law which was still on the books. Over 40% of Alabamans voted to keep the ban in place; obviously there are still a lot of people that think blacks and whites should not mix blood.<br />AMERICA IN BLACK AND WHITE fully endorses the civil rights acts - the quarrel is with affirmative action. However, while stating that &quot;too much remains&quot; of white racism, they contradict themselves when saying that &quot;haters have become a tiny remnant with no influence in any important sphere of American life.&quot; Perhaps this ambiguity, and the Thernstroms inability to speak with certainty, only serves to underline the reality that in race relations in general, and policy prescriptions in particular, there remains a vast gray area. Other contributions are needed.	2001-05-03
US	50452306	RCEAND34UJCRZ	0684825244	715397462	The End of Racism: Principles for a Multiracial Society	Books	2	16	41	N	N	Hubris and Hucksterism	Dinesh D'Souza is a research fellow at the conservative public policy think tank, American Enterprise Institute. Many of their policy proposals (Robert Borks' excepted) are balanced, but Mr D'Souza's thinking has definitely tanked with this polemic.<br />I am a member of that group that public opinion pollsters describe as 'the majority of white Americans who disagree with preferential treatment for blacks'. For me, this is pragmatic, not racist; it is my conviction that individual effort and merit should be the criteria that decides who succeeds. This is a philosophical position that I find not at all at odds with my support for affirmative action. The fact that I have never experienced reverse discrimination, know of no colleagues that have, and have seen job training programs do wonders in some of the places I've worked, only means some will argue, that my support is narrow and self-centered, or based on angst and white guilt.<br />It's necessary to put the subject into this context - the personal and philosophical, because that is exactly the level at which Mr D'Souza wants to appeal to his readers. He would argue that support for affirmative action is a consequence of white guilt informing public policy. More specifically, only cultural relativists, multiculturalists or more simply, liberals, support the policy. You are not allowed to define your own position.<br />The subtitle of THE END OF RACISM is Principles for a Multiracial Society, which implies that we will be looking at basic truths, laws, assumptions or standards for managing such a society. Instead we are treated to a frontal assault on liberalism as a political philosophy. Fair enough, there are many elements that can be criticized. However, this means that the book's title is camouflage, and a huckster is at work pushing his political philosophy rather than offering public policy prescriptions. What are some of these political and philosophical blocks that the book is built on? <br />CULTURAL RELATIVISM and LIBERALISM. Mr D'Souza says that cultural relativism is &quot;the doctrine that all cultures are considered equal...cultural relativism means that the standards for evaluating a culture come from within...no culture may legitimately impose it's norms or standards on another&quot;. Diversity and multiculturalism are used interchangeably. Mr D'Souza tries to obfuscate the issue by not discussing it in terms of the difference between universal and particular values. The problem of liberalism is a conflict between the principles of equal treatment and worth, which are inherently universalistic values, and a claim to special treatment on the basis of ethnicity, which is patently a particularistic value. Paul Sniderman in REACHING BEYOND RACE says it best: &quot;Liberalism's advocacy of ethnic diversity is rooted in principle...It's very awareness that it is faithful to principle...has blinded it to the fact that it has pledged itself to a principle that is -and in the end ought to be- subordinate to it's own universalistic principles&quot;. Mr D'Souza would not want to highlight this dialectic within liberalism since it implies that change is possible, and he wishes to portray the philosophy as moribund. Further, his comment that &quot;relativism has now imprisoned liberals in an iron cage that prevents them from acknowledging black pathology&quot; is itself, only a relative statement; one which probably only he holds, as nobody argues that that the high crime, drug plagued, culture of the inner city is the equal to that of the white suburbs. <br />RATIONAL DISCRIMINATION. I do not believe that white Americans are more prone to racism than any other group, here or in any other society. Mr D'Souza however, states that it is &quot;universal, defensible and in some cases even admirable to prefer members of one's own group over strangers.&quot; Whereas rational discrimination, (based on a lack of information about the individual being discriminated against)is bigotry and prejudice - it remains a case of immorality at the individual level. Just as white guilt has no place in public policy, neither does 'rational discrimination', where through anonymity at the institutional level, it becomes racism. <br />It would have been preferable to review the book on the strength of it's arguments for race neutral or color-blind public policies but that is difficult. Mr D'Souza dismisses all contending opinions, not with counter analysis but with anecdote. Issues raised in serious works such as THE TRULY DISADVANTAGED are waived aside. As the book goes on the contempt that Mr D'Souza has for those who disagree with him becomes apparent and the condescension with which he views black intellectuals and civil rights leaders is almost palpable. Hubris abounds. Perhaps Mr D'Souza is already familiar with the comment by Columbia University professor Edward Said, who characterized a similar patronizing posture by English novelist V.S. Naipaul, as that of &quot;a white man's nigger&quot; always &quot;looking down.&quot;<br />There may be a moral basis for implementing color blind policies, but THE END OF RACISM comes nowhere close to making that argument. It is definitely not the 'definitive' book on race relations; in fact it's not a even a good starting point. There are many other books available such as REACHING BEYOND RACE, THE UNSTEADY MARCH and FACING UP TO THE AMERICAN DREAM.	2001-04-27
US	50452306	R2XX85NVV9IJ1S	0465045898	444608423	Migrations And Cultures: A World View	Books	4	65	67	N	N	More ammunition for the culture wars...	...and usable by both sides. Nevermind that the subtitle of MIGRATIONS AND CULTURES says that the perspective taken by this book is A World View - thus the US is not the specific subject - there is enough here of relevance to our current debates on multiculturalism and immigration that both the fuzzy-visioned left and the myopic, patriotic, right will have field days. <br />Substantively, MIGRATIONS AND CULTURES looks at six cultures (Chinese, Germans, Indians, Italians, Japanese and Jews) and their experiences as migrants in new countries. A summary of some of his main findings is as follows:<br />1. A fairly common experience is arriving destitute, applying oneself with reliance on family, endeavor, and thrift; emphasizing education for the native-born 2nd generation, and contributing to increasing wealth of their new country. Concommitant with migrant success there is usually envy and/or prejudice from some native populations.<br />2. A clear distinction can be made between culture and race. The experiences of Chinese migrants in many countries is a frequent example used by Mr Sowell. As an illustration of the reality that cultural similarities can transcend race we are referred to the fully assimilated Chinese of the West Indies.<br />3. Cultural capital, which he defines as the habits and beliefs that migrants bring to a new country - is much more important in determining the migrants fate, than is the new homeland's economy, culture, or political system.<br />It is this last point that both sides will debate. It immediately sours the palate of the far right who offer the idea that the goodness of the US as the ultimate land of opportunity, is there to be tasted, if only the migrants would jump into the melting pot. At the same time Mr Sowell scrambles the eggs of the academic left by saying not all cultures are equal. He says plainly that variations in cultural capital account for differences in economic and social outcomes. <br />This is a well reasoned book,satisfyingly light on the polemics. For those who don't like statistics it's a bit heavy with the numbers. He's an economist so maybe you'll understand and forgive this emphasis. Anyhow, you should definitely read him.	2001-04-20
US	50452306	R31X0MF88C5VO6	006095339X	497867283	Explaining Hitler	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A man well studied, yet still a mysterious stranger	Mr. Rosenbaum states very early in EXPLAINING HITLER that &quot;throughout his life, wherever he went, Adolph Hitler was always a Mysterious Stranger&quot;. Following from this statement, and from the title of the book, we would naturally expect Mr. Rosenbaum to definitively shed some light on this enigmatic person. To the extent that he does not, we can be justifiably disappointed in the book.<br />But wait a minute. The task at hand is immense - there are scores of biographies written on Hitler, some dating back to before the war. Furthermore, this book was intended to shine a light on the origins of the man's evil (which it does); hoping however, to fully illuminate that darkness, is a vain hope indeed. Also, EXPLAINING HITLER was not intended to be a historiography of Hitler biographies - for that check out John Lukacs' THE HITLER OF HISTORY. Mr. Rosenbaum offers instead a sythesis of historical explanations of Hitler's evil, specifically as manifested in his rabid anti-semitism. The author is clear in stating that his interest is in what this says about the historians themselves, their views of human nature, and how they see evil - in Hitler and mankind in general. On this score Mr. Rosenbaum delivers as promised.<br />One of the techniques used by Mr. Rosenbaum (an investigative reporter by training) is interviews with these various Hitler historians. Incisive and revealing, especially when the question that is explored is whether one sees Hitler's evil as something unprecedented in history or as a sign of the malevolence of human nature. The assumption being that how one answers indicates perspective. There are two camps of Hitler historians; those that see him as patently evil and individually responsible for the attrocities of the Nazis, and those that see other forces (societal or psychological) at fault.   <br />Mr. Rosenbaum is at his best when providing a sythesis of the various schools of thought on Hitler. We see that within the group that sees evil and responsibility residing in Hitler, the focus is on the connection with his anti-semitism. They are constantly in search of documentary proof; some key turning point; a statement from him initiating the 'Final Solution'; any clear indicator of his turn toward evil. Mr. Rosenbaum calls this the &quot;Lost safe-deposit syndrome&quot;. More well developed are the views that qualify as belonging to the Societal/Psychological school of thought. Strange bedfellows are to be found here. Daniel Goldhagen of HITLER's WILLING EXECUTIONERS fame would be shocked to be grouped with a Hitler apologist such as David Irving but so be it; both find explanations for Nazi attrocities that excuse Hitler. Some of the more pernicious explanations - those that portray Hitler as a victim - are also on offer in this group. Amazingly, some see Jews at fault. The Doctor who treated (or mistreated it is argued) Hitler's mother, failing to prevent her painful death from breast cancer; thus breeding resentment in young Adolf. Mr Rosenbaum explores others such explanations, examples of what he calls the &quot;Menendez defense&quot;. Naturally, if we are going to apply the metaphor of modern legal defenses to Hitler histories we should expect to find versions of two of todays most popular legal appeals on display here. Yes, there are Hitler histories that are examples of the insanity plea and the sexually abused childhood defense. Certainly plausible in general but they make us distinctly uncomfortable when applied to Hitler. <br />Perhaps that is the larger point of this whole analysis of Hitler histories. What do they say about how we view ourseves and culture as a whole? As the author says &quot;Hitler explanations are cultural self-portraits; the shapes we project onto the inky Rorschach of Hitler's psyche are often cultural self-portraits in the negative. What we talk about when we talk about Hitler is also who we are and who we are not&quot;.	2001-04-19
US	50452306	R11XWRXNGPVXZU	0375702628	370402831	The Name of War: King Philip's War and the Origins of American Identity	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Things got testy, very quickly	Settlers had barely been established in New England for a generation when relations with the Native American Algonquin, Nipmucks, Narragansett, and Wampanoag tribes erupted into all out warfare. The Indians were resisting expansion by the English for fairly prosaic reasons - they wished to maintain as much of their own way of life as possible. The English Puritan settlers under the leadership of the Mather's saw things more profoundly spiritual, and if they could not get the 'savages' to forego their heathen ways then, by God!, they certainly were not going to allow Indians to interfere with the proper pursuits of God fearing people. Misunderstandings, mistrust, and missed opportunities for communication; whatever the origins, there is only one thing to call it - THE NAME OF WAR. <br />King Philips War (1675-1676) was the name and it was bloody. Jill Lepore tells us that in a little over a year there were more casualties in this conflict, in proportion to the population, than in any American war since. Although the outcome was an eventual victory by the settlers, this was only after the Indians had attacked over 30 New England towns. <br />In addition to descriptions of the battles, we get insights into the principals, namely Philip (a.k.a Metacom), chief of the Wampanoags, and the Mather's - Increase and Cotton. These individuals are representative of the extreme positions of cultural antagonism that characterized the war. Interestingly, Lepore highlights some of the 'cross-cultural' stories - Indians who became Christians and whites who adopted native customs. Other interesting issues that are explored are:<br />&gt; The story of Mary Rowlandson's captivity and specifically the role that Nipmuck Indian James Printer played in negotiating her release.<br />&gt; The different accounts of the demise of Philip. It's treatment and symbolism for both the whites and the Indians. <br />This differential treatment of history is a point that the author develops on. We are reminded that victors get to tell their history; this is especially true when the vanquished are Indians who did not have their own writing and very few of whom spoke English. The telling of the story with reference to Native American source documents is therefore absent. Nevertheless, there is an awareness of the reality of another perspective, and Lepore does it justice by use of writings by 'pro-Indian' whites.<br />Lepore shows that many of the settlers tried to define themselves through telling their story of the war. The importance of history was not lost on them, nor was the significance of their role in it. This explains Increase Mather's anxiety to finish his history of the war before a rival, and puts his disappointment with the books failure in London into context. Mary Rowlandson's story, which when published in 1682, became our first best-seller is also seen in this light. <br />A tradition of history writing stretching back through the centuries; a tradition that THE NAME OF WAR does nothing but honor.	2001-04-17
US	50452306	R3GWCSZD7P4RHO	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	4	5	N	N	&quot;And pray, sir, what in the world is equal to it?&quot;	This question was asked in Britain's parliament about the hugely successful and wealthly whaling industry on Nantucket Island. It could have been asked about the Sperm whale, or more immediately, about Nathaniel Philbrick's book itself. IN THE HEART OF THE SEA: The Tragedy of The Whaleship Essex is a well written tale of a shipwreck, all the more absorbing because it's no 'fish story' - every word is true. It is history and also travelogue; a drama of human survival; it tells of Quakers, Wampanoag Indians, English settlers and free blacks; we learn all about sailing on the high seas, the whaling industry, and what life was like on Nantucket.<br />A visit to the whaling museum in nearby New Bedford shows how economically important the industry was to the area in the past. It was also culturally significant, providing the background for one of our greatest novels - Herman Melville's MOBY-DICK. The Seaman's Bethel mentioned in MOBY-DICK is still there, just across the street from the museum. The story of the Essex provided Melville with the idea for his main character - not Ahab, but the whale. Not only Melville. Philbrick uses two accounts by Essex survivors - first mate Owen Chase and cabin boy Thomas Nickerson - as sources. He weaves them together with his own writings on the sea and knowledge of Nantucket to provide us with a harrowing but immensely readable tale. <br />Although the central tragedy in this book tempts us to make bon mots such as this being a book that 'you can sink your teeth into', this trivializes it. There are no Epicurean feasts here. The repast that the men sustained themselves on was something not normally considered palatable. After being shipwrecked, they survived by feeding on human flesh; they were forced to resort to cannibalism. Unlike Moby-Dick where the sinking of the ship was the conclusion of the story, here it only marks the beginning of the real tragedy. <br />The Essex was rammed and sunk by a Sperm whale, going down in the SouthPacific. Philbrick tells of how the 20 man crew of the Essex made it into three small whaleboats which they were able to rig with sail. The nearest land were the Marquesas Islands, about 1,200 miles due west, with the prevailing wind. Due East, against the wind and 2,000 miles away was South Amerca. The men decided to head East. That they did so is understandable only in the context of the times and the thinking of the men. Philbrick says plainly, that because of Xenophobic fears and belief in rumours, the officers of the Essex were convinced that the unknown island inhabitants of the Marquesas were cannibals. There was nothing to fear about South America. Heading toward mainland set them on a three month voyage that in a cruel irony of history would see the very thing that the men feared the most - cannibalism - becoming a reality, at their own hands.<br />Philbrick's tale of survival at sea, the desperate situation these men found themselves in, and the final acts of self preservation that they were forced to resort to, is a pretty grim acount. Nevertheless it is a 'can't-put-down' powerful and poignant story and an example of why popular history is so...well, popular.	2001-04-11
US	50452306	R1UI58A0F9PRVE	0374265011	811044930	Big Chief Elizabeth: The Adventures and Fate of the First English Colonists in America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Weroanza whomsoever	'Weroanza' - In a Native American language, a word meaning 'Big Chief'. Perhaps it was, as the author says, the eponymous Queen Elizabeth I of the books title, but it could also have been applied to any of the many Sirs we read about - Sir Walter Raleigh, Sir Humphrey Gilbert. Further, we could certainly use the title for the powerful Powhatan (father of Pocahontas), a Native American who fought to throw English settlers back into the sea. Perhaps, most appropriately, 'Big Chief' applies to Giles Milton himself, for with this fascinating, lively, and colorful book he has surely established himself as Weroanza of the popular history genre. Sobel, Philbrick and Co., now truly have company.<br />We read about English attempts to settle in North America, from the earliest explorations of the 1530's through the half-baked schemes of Sir Humphrey Gilbert (half-brother of Sir Walter Raleigh) to Raleigh sponsored expeditions, especially the fateful John White led Roanoke settlement. 'Trials' is the most appropriate word to use in describing the many attempts that preceeded the first permanent English settlement at Jamestown. Mr Milton interjects qoutes and sentences in the vernacular of old English (veri olde English!) throughout the book. This is seen in the description by a settler of the trials faced from lack of resources. Hunger, surprisingly to me, seems to have been a problem. &quot;If thou wouldest needs know, the broyled meate that I had was a piece of such a man's buttocke&quot;. This was not the bucolic life 'down on the farm' that we oftentimes think these settlers enjoyed.<br />There are many interesting stories here. How did a Native American by the name of Manteo come to be Lord of Roanoke and how did one little known Rebecca Rolfe cease to be the well known Pocahontas. What happened to the Roanoke settlement? Mr Milton posits an interesting theory by way of an answer. He discusses John Smith, Francis Drake, Queen Elizabeth I and King James VI and naturally,if we are talking about the early settlement of Virginia, then we are also talking about Tobacco. <br />BIG CHIEF ELIZABETH is well researched, so it should get positive reviews from historians, and it's written in an easy style so as to guarantee wide acceptance by general readers. That about covers what good popular history is supposed to be.	2001-04-10
US	50452306	R3L0K2O3EFOKBF	0714826529	678334399	The Story Of England	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The story of England, with pictures; in very long sentences	That might actually sum it up if not for the fact that there is actually a lot of research that went into this book and such a glib encapsulation does not do it justice. What is the purpose of the book. Mr Hibbert tells us. &quot;It is intended as a generously illustrated introduction to the history of England for all those readers who have largely forgotten what they were taught at school, or whose history lessons touched upon only parts of the long periods covered here, as well as those looking for a readable book which will help to put the places they visit in their travels about the country into their historical context.&quot; Phew! THE STORY OF ENGLAND in very long sentences!<br />I may have forgotten a lot of the English history I learned in school, and I am grateful for the colorful and interesting presentation of it here by Mr Hibbert. What I do remember from school though is that a sentence should be about 25 words long and a paragraph roughly 75. Here you will run into more than the occassional 75 word sentence! <br />The book is gloriously illustrated with every page having at least one (usually full color) graphic, and the historical period covered is extensive - from Roman Britain to the present. There are chronological tables tracking significant British historical events, genealogical charts of the Normans, Plantagenets, Tudors, Stuarts and Hanoverians. The historical style is descriptive. <br />Suitable for general readers; introductory college level English history. Concludes with the ascension to power of John Major in the 'palace coup' of 1990 when the conservatives found too much rust on the 'Iron Lady' and ousted her as party leader.	2001-04-09
US	50452306	R3FVBTN8LF8T8D	0446670340	434840508	Culture of Complaint: The Fraying of America	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Jeremiad?	From the title of Hughes' book you might think this is a tale of woe; a malady of national discontent. Not so. It's too concise, humorous, and ultimately, optimistic, to be a Jeremiad. Nevertheless, Mr Hughes does spend a lot of time lamenting what's wrong with American culture, politics, and the society at large. His focus, and some of his wittiest criticisms are directed at the political ideologues; in academics, the arts and sciences, journalism, and of course party politics. He is dismissive of both extremes; the politically correct left and what he calls the patriotic correct right. He disabuses both sides of any idea that we are enthralled with their message. &quot;One would rather swim than get in the same dinghy as the P.C. folk. But neither would one wish to don blazer and top-siders on the gin palace with it's twin 400-horsepower Buckleys, it's Buchanan squawk box, Falwell &amp; Robertson compass, it's Quayle depth finder and it's broken bilge pump, that now sits listing on the Potomac...&quot; Mr Hughes trains his critical spotlight on dogma, hypocrisy, biases, and bigotry; the opinion makers, spin-doctors, jargon generators and euphemists that have obfuscated the issues, and worse, have sacrificed consensus on the altar of ideology. <br />He is ultimately optimistic as the problem does not lie with citizenry, as we are 'America' The problem remains squarely with ideologues. &quot;The fact remains that America is a collective work of the imagination whose making never ends, and once that sense of collectivity, and mutual respect is broken the possibilities of Americanness begin to unravel. If they are fraying now, it is because the politics of ideology has for the last 20 years weakened and in some cases broken the traditional American genius for consensus, for getting along by making up practical compromises to meet real social needs&quot;. In a word - balance! Exactly the approach we need, and precisely the type of analysis in this well written and incisive book.	2001-04-08
US	50452306	RKERVMF9UG7O3	0385479433	129609703	In Defense of Elitism	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Square pegs and round holes	A challenge facing some persons claiming the title of liberal; reconciling the egregious errors of some elements of multiculturalism with egalitarian ideals. It seems to have been an issue the late Mr Henry struggled with himself. Who was he? old-style liberal, moderate, progressive, neo-conservative or gainsaying it all - an elitist! This difficulty in definitions and specifically his declaration of his liberal qualifications, provided ammunition for the extremes of both sides. The radical left excoriated him and the book, for not only his views, but moreso for exposing the internecine squabbles of competing liberal ideologies. The far right held the book up as affirmation, and chortled, either with self-satisfaction or in ridicule at this 'confused' liberal. Either way, they missed the point, and the benefits to be gained from a thorough reading of this trenchant and moderate (in the proper sense of the word i.e. balanced) book. What Henry says here will rub salt into the wounds of both the politically correct left, and what his colleage Robert Hughes calls the patriotic correct right. <br />In his DEFENSE OF ELITISM Henry defines what being an elitist is. Someone who believes &quot;some ideas are better than others, some values more enduring, some works of art more universal, some cultures, though we dare not say it, are more accomplished than others and therefore more worthy of study.&quot; Nowhere here does he eschew egalitarianism in favor of elitism. Both are necessary in ensuring societal progress and for rewarding achievement. The problem, he says, is that there has been an &quot;erosion of the intellectual confidence to sort out and rank competing values&quot;. Bravo! In challenging multiculturalism, it's defenders label one as insensitive, and it's opponents read this as support for some pernicious ideologies that are offered as alternatives.<br />Mr Henry insists on what can be called an honest intellectual assessment of the merits of ideas and issues. Actually we could extend this to words also. Mediocrity is, we would agree, inferior to meritocracy but this book would argue refering to oneself as moderate does not mean that you favor mediocrity. Being an egalitarian is also not a defense of the cultural pluralism that is characteristic of multiculturalism. Mr Henry makes these distinctions clear but he stops here. He could have gone on to make the following distinction, which is in keeping with his argument. An assimilated, multiethnic America is not an issue, but a pluralistic federation of multicultural states is another thing entirely. That's the only problem I have with this otherwise excellent book - a failure to provide 'full-disclosure' of his views.	2001-04-08
US	50452306	R325WI3N2KO37N	0395791472	583668950	The Beauty of the Beastly	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Learning to love the cockroach	Natalie Angier admits that she had a childhood phobia about roaches; for me it was spiders; I'm sure it's snakes for many others. Angier writes with this recognition; although she still doesn't love roaches, she respects them and is quite able to get us to admire, respect, and appreciate whatever it is in nature that makes our skin crawl. This book is a collection of insightful essays on nature written in her inimitable style. Pure wonder, and humor in all she sees. If nature were a three ring circus (and some of the antics she describes here makes me believe it sometimes is), then she is it's Ringmaster.	2001-04-08
US	50452306	R1ZWOTHE0QIQTE	0393318540	285805115	The Disuniting of America: Reflections on a Multicultural Society (Revised and Enlarged Edition)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Trenchant, and up from the trenches of the cultural wars	The main point of this book is that the culture wars and the debates about politically correct history are not simply academic issues. They are central to what it means to be an American. Here Mr Schlesinger disagrees with his colleague Russell Jacoby who says that the whole thing is the DOGMATIC WISDOM of academics. Mr Schlesinger is not too concerned about universities; they can sort themselves out. The problem, as he sees it, is broader and deeper - societal. The Ethnic Heritage Studies Program Act is viewed as pernicious; compromising &quot;the historic right of Americans to decide their ethnic identities for themselves&quot;.<br />Central to his argument is the distinction between politically correct history, and 'correct' or more to the point, honest history. It's not honest, he says, to regard the European origins of American culture as something to be excised or qualified. He is harshest when criticising multicultural pseudo-learning which is pushed as an alternative. The truth is Europe as a 'Great Power' or 'Hegemonic' power, (depends on your perspective), will naturally have it's history told, while other histories are omitted. That's the nature of power politics. Multiculturalists argue that this is their raison d'etre, to 'write' these wrongs by giving voice to other histories. What is often overlooked is that this same power struggle between mainstream and minorities exists within multiculturalism itself among contending minority groups. For newly arrived Caribbean or African immigrant groups, their relationship with established African-Americans is the experience of dealing with a 'hegemon', at least in terms of political power. This is a point that Mr Schelsinger missed entirely by lumping all ethnic groups together. He recognizes the importance of honoring one's ethnic heritage and as such has a progressive view of assimilation, he's not talking about a homogenous people after all. At the same time he lost an opportunity to reinforce one of the strengths of assimilation compared to the ethnic pluralism of multiculturalism. It's a fair assumption that immigrants, by their very act of coming here, wish to be American and therefore try to assimilate. The success of the venture to date, has been due more to the actions of native-born Americans than the immigrants. Belief in the individual and allowing newcomers the opportunity to prove themselves legitimizes the immigrant. There's the strength of assimilation.<br />African-Americans, of course, are not immigrants. Native-born, yet still facing a problem more of integration rather than assimilation. If this book has a failing it is here. Under the rubric of multiculturalism all ethnic or minority group issues are seen as a whole. This is simply not the case. <br />Overall the book is moderate in tone and balanced in argument and well worth reading.	2001-04-07
US	50452306	R2VLPDTILKN12W	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	5	11	15	N	N	&quot;Working towards the Fuhrer&quot;	This could be the sub-title of Kershaw's biography because he mentions it so many times and sees it as the driving force and the motivation that explains the relationship Hitler had with his generals, the army, the implementors of Nazi policy, and the German people in general. All were seeking to do their Fuhrer's will; to be in accord with his ideas and to help fulfill his goals - 'working towards the Fuhrer'. Kershaw quickly puts his biography into context. Among the numerous Hitler biographies we can detect three trends (1) revisionists and apologists (David Irving), (2) Hitler as 'modern' 'great' or 'revolutionary' leader (Fest, Lukacs, Zeitelmann) and (3) Hitler and the use of power (Bullock and Kershaw). Kershaw is not in the least bit interested in exploring Hitler's leadership style in the context of a 'great' nor is he much interested in the man's personality. Kershaw defines his job as Hitler biographer. &quot;It is a task which has to focus not upon the personality of Hitler, but squarely and directly upon the character of his power - the power of the Fuhrer&quot;. He achieves this admirably and does not lose this focus throughout. As such this biography can justifiably be referred to as 'definitive'. This is even moreso since along with his earlier 'Volume 1' HUBRIS, these are the first major Hitler biographies in some time. One final note on this historiography of biographies. I am sure that John Lukacs now probably wishes that he had delayed publishing his study of Hitler biographies - THE HITLER OF HISTORY until after HUBRIS and NEMESIS came out. How can you write 'authoritatively' on a subject when two authoritative sources have yet to be published? Bottom line - we can expect more works. <br />Has Kershaw made others still to come redundant? Has he answered all the questions about Hitler? Obviously not, but where the focus lies on the nature of the power that Hitler wielded and how he got it, and why the German people gave it to him and allowed himto use it, Kershaw is without equal in his descriptions and explanations. Points which Kershaw elucidates are:<br />&gt; The paradox between &quot;the emptiness of the private person&quot; and the power wielded by this person. This power was &quot;derived only in part from Hitler himself...[it]...was a social product - a creation of social expectations and motivations vested in Hitler by his followers&quot;<br />&gt; Hitler's power was charismatic and led to the pseudo-religious, heroic, mythic, status of Hitler; the development of a Hitler cult. Hitler's extreme, personalized style of ledership fed this and encouraged followers 'to work towards him'.<br />&gt; The Final Solution for the Jews is seen in this context. It was developed with a high degree of consensus that it was the necessary approach to help realize the Fuhrer's mission.<br />Perhaps equally as interesting as how Hitler used his power is Kershaw's analysis of how he held on to it. Kershaw convincingly argues that following the defeat at Stalingrad, the German people lost faith in the 'heroic' image of Hitler. There was a growing awareness and acceptance that the war was lost and yet people continued with support for Hitler. He remained fully in control, soldiers continued to fight, and people continued to sacrifice and die for his cause. The July 1944 bomb-plot, planned in the belief that there was support for his removal, we know, failed.  Kershaw shows that this brought about an immediate reversal of fortunes for Hitler. His popularity once again surged. Puzzling. A notion which is all too frequent when we investigate any aspect of Hitler's life and his relationship with the German people. Perhaps the greatest puzzle remains, even after this biography. How could a man so patently evil be afforded so much power and be so venerated? Indeed it remains a mystery and a question for others to answer as it is an issue that Kershaw does not tackle.	2001-04-07
US	50452306	R15P6D8CLP76RV	0385425171	530613447	Dogmatic Wisdom	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Class dismissed; dogmatics sent home	There are two primary themes running through this book, both of which are well developed and explained by Mr Jacoby in his usual incisive manner. They are: (1) Multiculturalism is a marketing ploy of corporate America (2) Regardless of which side of the culture war you choose, the only winners are the stakeholders of professional academic life. Mr Jacoby thus places himself firmly in the middle and tweaks the intellectual noses of both the left and the right, pronouncing their positions as DOGMATIC WISDOM. He recognizes that his views are not palatable to either side, but instead of being apologetic, rightly sees this as one of the problems with the debate. &quot;Only in the current ideological climate [are these views] news or heresy&quot;.<br />MULTICULTURALISM AS A CORPORATE MARKETING PLOY. Mr Jacoby sees multiculturalism as a 'way-station' on the road to monoculturalism. He argues that our multiple ethnic groups are not different cultures at all, because we all &quot;partake of a larger industrial society&quot;. Partake and become homogeneous. Higher education, pop culture (t.v., movies, music), professional sports, name brand clothes and consumerism in general are making us all alike no matter our ethnic origins. Jacoby says &quot;inexorable loss calls forth proud declarations of identity&quot;. It is in recognition of this fact that corporations have latched onto multiculturalism, using it as a marketing tool to draw in minorities here, and attract new consumers abroad. While Jacoby is convincing in arguing that marketing is an important element of multiculturalism he does not mention a critical issue. Namely, we can share traits as mentioned above but this is acculturation, not integration. Acculturation is simply conformity to the superficial cultural traits of a society. It is not synonymous with assimilation, and assimilation is what is needed. <br />MULTICULTURALISM, AN ACADEMIC PURSUIT. Mr Jacoby makes the connection with consumerism by stating that theelective system of our universities is the equivalent of the free market; choices beyond reason. &quot;This makes passionate arguments about the curriculum seem like shadowboxing; at least in higher education no punches can be landed, because the object, a liberal education, has vanished&quot;. The 'professionalizers', he says, have triumphed - &quot;a coherent curriculum has disappeared&quot;. Remaining in the middle, he sees no need to join those carping about the radical professors because he sees them as anything but revolutionary. They remain insiders and Jacoby cuts right through their bluster. &quot;They encounter the world as secure employees of mainstream institutions&quot;. Hardly the definition of a radical! This dismissing of the multiculturalizing professors is not only a criticism of the left as Jacoby includes 'right' thinking critics as well, lumping all together and pronouncing on their collective hypocrisy. He sees &quot;a celebration of academic hierarchy, professions and success. Never has so much criticism yielded so much affirmation&quot;. To which I can only add never has one book added so much new and fresh insight into the culture wars.	2001-04-06
US	50452306	R1S2CI11NTQDVR	0385468091	916474891	The Sixth Extinction: Patterns of Life and the Future of Humankind	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Bye-bye Biodiversity	This is not a parting that man would ever wish. In fact, we could never utter these words; if the reality of the the demise of biodiversity were to occur, we would also be gone. The extirpation of mankind. Biological diversity is simply the wealth of the world's organisms - inclusive of genes, species, ecosystems - the web of life which supports us. Leakey shows how evolutionary biology and ecology have helped us understand important new facts - the extreme intricacies of ecosystems for example. Ironically, new knowledge coming at the same time that the rate of man made change on these systems is accelerating. Leakey argues that perhaps as much as 50% of known species will be driven to extinction within the next few decades. This is the sobering message of the book; we are headed towards an abrupt and massive loss of plants and animal life - the 'sixth extinction' of the books title. Leakey traces five previous 'extinction pulses' due to factors such as climatic change and asteroid impact; this one will be our doing. <br />A final note of interest for those who may wish to know the epistemology of the book. Leakey and co-author Roger Lewin are supporters of the concept of 'punctuated equilibrium' - a theory that sees evolution progressing in ways other than as a steady, linear process. An idea first espoused by paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould. Gould and supporters of his theory have their critics, a notable one being Edward O Wilson. Academic rivalry and ideological disputes aside, there is no disagreement on the importance of biodersity and the source of the threat to it. <br />&quot;Virtually all students of the extinction process agree that biological diversity is in the midst of it's sixth great crisis, this time precipitated entirely by man&quot; (E.O.Wilson)	2001-04-03
US	50452306	R14VI81XDZM0Y2	0521585902	626746809	Making Race and Nation: A Comparison of South Africa, the United States, and Brazil (Cambridge Studies in Comparative Politics)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	The 'race' to build 3 nations	In looking at race it's necessary to get perspective. Travel opens up new vistas. We perceive ourselves one way, others around the world see things differently. What countries come to mind when you think about racism? South Africa definitely; but now that the country has majority rule, it's immediately less racist. Austria, Japan and Yugoslavia also come to mind, but they're not multiracial societies. That Anthony Marx has chosen to compare racial policy in Brazil, South Africa and the US, seems to confirm the widely held world view that the US is one of the most racist nations in the world. Is this true? What do these three nations have in common in their history of segregation? <br />Marx states that the US and South Africa practiced policies of segregation principally for the purpose of &quot;state and nation building&quot;. He argues that in both cases the ruling white elite were faced with crises; problems of prosperity and national order. In South Africa, following the Boer War of 1899-1902 there was no chance of unity among Afrikaners and British settlers. In the US, the experience of Radical Reconstruction following the Civil War, was, for some, akin to rubbing salt into fresh wounds. Marx states that in order to achieve accomodation among whites, blacks were made scapegoats. It's not surprising then to learn that the 1870's were when the first Jim Crow laws were passed in the US and the early 1900's saw the first South African Apartheid acts.<br />Where does Brazil fit in? Marx says that racism is as prevalent there as it is here but it's characteristics are different. There is a pervasive preferrence for 'whiteness', seen in attempts to 'Europeanize' the country through encouragement of immigration from the continent. Brazil however did not institutionalize racism as South Africa and the US did; interracial marriages were never illegal in Brazil. Also, because of multiple color categories of Brazilian citizens there was no possibility of the emergence of rigid, 'caste-like', color classifications that developed here. South Africa had 'coloreds' but they were caught in political 'no-mans-land' in the battle between the bantu majority and white minority. <br />It's an interesting and thoroughly reasoned proposition that Marx developes and expounds on in his book. The comparisons between the US and South Africa are nothing new, but the addition of Brazil as a counterpoint to the others is rather unique.	2001-04-03
US	50452306	R3JLMX4BLAH0W7	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Unabashed admiration for Lewis and Clark	You don't have to do any reading between the lines, nor in fact, go far into this book before you realize that the 1803-1806 journey of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark into the unknown American west, holds a very special place in Stephen Ambrose's heart. He says as much; &quot;in short, we have been obsessed with Lewis and Clark for twenty years&quot;. And understandably so. It is a fascinating tale. As told here by Ambrose it is part biography of Lewis, part travelogue, and pure history writing at it's finest. Although Lewis and Clark are central, the journey is as much a story of the vision and ambitions of president Thomas Jefferson, who in fact authorized the trip. &quot;From Jefferson's point of view, the captains [Lewis and Clark] were on an expedition to explore newly acquired territory, to find the water route to the Pacific, to extend commerce, to collect specimens for science, and to establish an American claim on the Oregon country&quot;. From this description of objectives we get a clear picture of the times and the spirit of adventure; the sense of elan and the feeling of optimism that was typical of the young American nation. The unknown west was seen by the intellectual Jefferson as some sort of quest, an eager venture to be undertaken by his explorers.<br />Ambrose describes it all in loving detail and is able to recreate this sense of enthusiasm for the west with it's promises for the future of America. Ironic then, that the instrumental character - Meriwether Lewis is shown to be a man of anything but good cheer and optimism. While a competent soldier and good leader for the expedition, the man was alcoholic and suffered bouts of deep depression. His ending was grim, convincingly argued and poignantly portrayed by Ambrose, as an act of suicide by a demented mind.	2001-04-01
US	50452306	RMNF5V52ZVZ4V	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The most important event in 18th Century North America,...	...most of us would agree, was the American Revolution. After reading this excellent book by Fred Anderson don't be surprised to find yourself thinking otherwise. Certainly you will come away with a new appreciation for the Seven Years War or the French and Indian War as our forefathers called it. The book begins in 1754 in western Pennsylvania with a skirmish between French troops and land hungry colonists led by a young Virginian named George Washington. It is a story about five cultures (English, English colonials, French, French settlers and Native Americans) and the war they fought for control of the vast territory of the Ohio Valley. Anderson tells us it is &quot;a story of violent imperial competition that resulted first in a decisive victory and then in a troubled attempt by metropolitan authorities to construct a new British empire along lines that would permit them to exercise effective control over colonies and conquests alike. It is not, therefore, a story that has the birth of the an American republic anywhere in view.&quot; Anderson brings his narrative to a close in 1766, long before the revolution. There are 2 areas where the book shines, bringing new insight into our pre-revolutionary history.<br />1. HISTORY AND CULTURE OF THE INDIAN TRIBES. One of the cultures Anderson focuses on - Native Americans - we all know, is not one homogenous culture at all. The author is brilliant in showing how the internecine history of the eastern tribes brought about the emergence of the Iroquois nation as the dominant tribe in the northern Ohio Valley area. Tribes such as Mingos, Delaware, and Shawnee were almost subservient client states of the Iroquois and this made it very difficult for both the English and the French to negotiate alliances with the Indians. Also, what becomes very clear is that the use of Indians as scouts, mercenaries, and troops was a contributing cause to the atmosphere of &quot;fear and misunderstanding, miscalculation and mischance&quot;. This was due to the totally different norms under which Indians fought; rules of battle that neither French nor British practiced nor understood. Anderson explains the massacre following the surrender of Fort William Henry in this light. &quot;The only rewards that the Indians -whether Christian or heathen- had expected were plunder, trophies to prove their prowess in battle, and captives to adopt or sacrifice as replacements for dead warriors or perhaps hold for ransom. When it became clear that the man whom they had called 'Father' [Montcalm] intended to do what no real father would and deprive them of of the reward they had earned, most of the warriors decided merely to take what they had come for, and then to leave&quot;. Misunderstanding leading to butchery; the immediate consequences of it being that the English and colonials would never again trust Montcalm. It was not only the French though; such incidents had happened before with Indians in the service of the English. The Indians themselves saw Montcalm's interference in their plundering as cause for concern; &quot;never again would Indian allies flock to the French colors&quot;. The circle of mistrust was now complete.<br />2. NO LINK WITH THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION. Perhaps the greater contribution of the book is the 'not quite revisionist' but certainly an alternative view of the events of the period. In the years 1758-1760, following an English victory and with the demise of New France, Anderson sees a change in the relationship between Britain and her colonies. The British government he says became convinced &quot;that the only rational way to deal with the American colonists was to exert control from Whitehall.&quot; Anderson portrays the Stamp Act, the Townshend Act and even the Tea Act as means by Britain to exert local control. He is convincing with his argument that the reactions by the colonists to these acts &quot;did not reflect a movement toward revolution so much as an effort to define the natureof the imperial relationship&quot;. Despite the focus of the book on the period between 1754-1766, Anderson makes one of the most powerful statements of the whole book regarding the decade prior to the revolution. &quot;Between 1766 and 1775 lay a decade-long effort to deal with the legacies of a great war and a prodigal victory - an effort that instead of solutions generated a constitutional stalemate. Until the shots rang out on that bright spring morning [April 19, 1775 at Concord, Massachusetts], the Britsh empire had remained a transatlantic political community made up of subjects who, despite their differences, questioned neither their common allegiance to the Crown nor their common British identity&quot;.<br />Treat yourself to this thoroughly enjoyable and well written history; it is sure to be a work that is referred to for some time to come.	2001-03-31
US	50452306	R1MRZAA65Y7NPE	0312264291	707311195	The Illustrated Rise and Fall of the British Empire	Books	4	14	16	N	N	no guilt, no tears, and no longer an empire	At 350 pages the book has shrunk by half from the earlier edition. This version is also very heavily illustrated with just about every page containing at least one of the following: photograph, painting, map, or some other illustration of imperial memorabilia. Covering over 400 years of British rule across six continents and geographically covering half the globe, this book is a testament to an empire like no other the world has ever seen. That the British empire played a significant role in world history is beyond dispute; James says &quot;what matters most today is that the British empire transformed the world...the present day demography, economy and political life of North America and much of Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the Pacific owes much to former British rule and influence&quot;.<br />With such an opinion on the importance of Britain, it may be difficult for James to maintain balance. To his credit he does so admirably. He acknowledges that the experience of empire changed the British character - &quot;it encouraged a sense of superiority [and] also fostered racial arrogance&quot;. This, he says, was tempered in that &quot;deeply rooted liberal and evangelical ideals produced a powerful sense of imperial duty and mission&quot;. Ah!, the benevolent colonists and missionaries, but what of rapacious conquerors? James concedes that while the empire exhibited &quot;a moral sense and flexibility&quot; of the British people there was also &quot;ruthlessness and rapacity&quot;. He is quick to soften this blow to British sensibilities by saying that &quot;Britain's empire was a moral force and one for the good&quot;. Even it's demise was handled with grace, a function of the gentility and sagacity of Britain's leaders, rather than as a response to the demand for independence from it's subjects. That seems to be how James sees it. &quot;It was Attlee, Macleod and Macmillan who were, I believe the real heroes of imperial retreat which they handled with considerable political adroitness. Unlike France's, Portugal's, or Russia's, Britain's empire did not dissolve in tears&quot;. <br />While James occassionally falls off the balance beam, landing heavily on the side of the 'positive' morality of empire rather than the evil that men do in the name of God, King and country, he concentrates hard on not slipping on another tricky exercise. &quot;I have been as careful as possible to sidestep the quagmire of post imperial guilt, that peculiar angst which has troubled the British and American intelligentsia for the past 30 or so years&quot;.  Perhaps this is why Mr James seems a little piqued with former subjects apparent ungratefulness with history, especially since they are the direct beneficiaries. &quot;The years which saw the dissolution of the empire witnessed the last great migrations it had made possible. From 1948 onwards large numbers of West Indians, Indians, and Pakistanis and smaller numbers of West Africans, Maltese and Cypriots settled in Britain&quot;. James states that the UK has been multiracial since 1970 and &quot;for this reason alone, it is worth looking at the making and nature of empire&quot;...his exasperation with attempts to multiculturalize history coming through...&quot;the moreso since it's history and that of it's creators is being excised from school syllabuses&quot;.<br />It's interesting how multiculturalism affects texts in the UK - excising that deemed offensive - while the same forces here seek inclusion of all other histories. It's sterilized or diluted history; either way it's manufactured history. Whether we agree or disagree with James view, we should applaud attempts at opinionated history - it's the only kind that remains readable.	2001-03-28
US	50452306	R1UQ3Q4K1NAB96	0375701133	441709531	The Hitler of History	Books	4	6	8	N	N	&quot;We are not finished with Hitler&quot;	Lukacs opens his book with the quote above signifying that our obsession with Adolf Hitler is still very much alive. It's a conflicting obsession; we are repulsed by man and his behavior, yet fascinated by the times. It speaks to motives which Lukacs hints at in his conclusion, but which are not central to his book. This is not a psychoanalysis nor a biography of Hitler; it is instead a historiography of the main biographies; &quot;the history of the evolution of our knowledge of Hitler, apparent as that is in the writings of a great variety of his many biographies&quot;.<br />Indeed, there are many, dozens, beginning with the first by Konrad Heiden in 1936. Lukacs surveys many of the principal ones and tells us his preferences - E. Deuerlein's 'Hitler: Eine Politsche Biographie and Joachim Fest's 'Adolf Hitler: A Biography'. Another of significance was by Alan Bullock - one of the first to use German documents from Nuremberg. Germans of course have written many, and it is out of these that emerged the 1980's Historikerstreit (Historical Controversy) in German academia. Neoconservative histories appeared, charged with attempting to 'rehabilitate' Hitler. Counter charges of character assasination were made, and amid the vitriol moderation and debate departed. Lukacs is critical of the revisionist histories but also of the controversy as a whole because of the shredding of &quot;the acceptance of a general consensus, for which many respected German historians and intellectuals had been aiming for at least 40 years&quot; Despite the attention to methodology and academic disputes, the book is not pedagogical. Teaching strives for balance and history demands it, and wheras Lukacs comes down heavily against revisionists he does a good job of synthesis across a broad range of opinions. <br />Lukacs has written the book for the general reader so we find themes that have broader appeal. Hitler as strategist and statesman; as nationalist and patriot; Hitler's views on arts, architecture and technology. Questions are posed and answers sought. When did he develop his ideologies?, What about racism, anti-semitism, anti-bolshevism? and Lukacs most provocative question - Was Hitler a revolutionary leader? It's provocative because historians understanding of the concept 'revolutionary leader' implies also 'modern' leader. This makes all of us uncomfortable; we prefer not to think of such a leader or leadership style as having any relevance to present day discussions on political science. This is precisely the context in which Hitler is studied in a 1989 biography by German historian Rainer Zeitelmann. Lukacs supports Zeitelmann's view that &quot;Hitler was truly a revolutionary, and that, consequently, his aspirations and visions were modern&quot;. Mildly contoversial initially but heatedly so when it became apparent that Zeitelmann had a political agenda, which he buttressed with his history. In Germany, right wing ultranationalism is  spelt only one way - s.c.a.r.y. Was this a new Historikerstreit that Lukacs himself got entangled in with his support for Zeitelmann? No, Lukacs supports the revolutionary concept but condemns the ideology. However in his concluding statement, Lukacs seems to show some misgivings about even dabbling in support for Hitler as a 'modern'. He warns &quot;If Western civilization melts away, threatening to collapse [Hitlers] reputation may rise in the eyes of orderly people, who may regard him as a tough last architect of an imperial order.&quot; It's a sobering thought to end on and it's depressing that 'we are not finished with Hitler'. Nothing is resolved and we loose sight of the bigger picture with too much attention to written minutiae. The reality remains...<br />...Nothing I wrote in the thirties saved one Jew from Auschwitz (W. H. Auden)	2001-03-24
US	50452306	R1IJZSBOHH8IS6	0809089068	518265730	Strange Victory: Hitler's Conquest of France	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Germany's Plan Yellow, a green light through France	On May 10, 1940 the German armies under the command of generals Bock in the north and Rundstedt in the Ardennes area, moved forward to carry out Plan Yellow. The invasions of Holland, Belgium and France had begun. Although the allies were caught off guard initially, they were prepared - in the north. The majority of French and British troops were in this area, set up in proper defensive formations anchored by the Maginot Line. The German attack through the Ardenne Forest, with armored divisions, was not expected. It was a complete surprise which turned into a very nasty one when it became apparent that the move in the north was a feint; the major attack was coming through France's unprotected eastern flank. <br />The significance of this battle is immense. It exhibited strategic use of armored divisions; there was the presence of general Rommel and Charles DeGaulle (then a colonel of a tank division); the battle developed into the perfect illustration of the concept of 'Blitzkrieg' or lightning war with a long sweeping knife cut by the Germans through France to the Channel. Further, defeat in this battle destroyed the country, plunging the population into a state of internecine warfare - the establishment of Vichy France as it's ultimate outcome. The frostiness that to this day, occasionally characterizes French-British relationships, can be traced directly to the concluding days of this battle. Far from viewing Dunkirk as a miracle, the French see it as abandonment. This puts the events of May 1940 into perspective and explains why yet another book on the defeat of France is not only to be expected, but welcomed. Especially this one. All of the strategic issues mentioned above are developed by Ernest May in his excellent book. <br />One of the immutable facts of the defeat of France has been that it was as a result of poor generalship, inferior equipment and irresolute behaviour of the army. Mr May will have none of that. The faults lie elsewhere - poor intelligence capabilities on the part of the Allies and inferior command and control, specifically communications. May's assessment is a refreshing example of revisionist history. One area of emphasis in the book is on the development of Plan Yellow. He carefully shows how it changed from it's original conception in the fall of 1939 with inputs from the experienced generals,(especially Manstein), to it's final formulation. Contrasted with this is the French General Gamelin who preferred not to use a general staff to assist with his plans. The actual battle commencing on May 10 through to the collapse of France is also recounted in almost 'first person' level of detail. This is a very useful addition to the long list of books written about those days of darkness.	2001-03-24
US	50452306	R38EMWD0LH8BDH	0670884561	732551471	Twentieth Century: The History of the World, 1901 to 2000	Books	5	23	25	N	N	You're in good hands with Roberts	From the first lines of the opening page of 'Twentieth Century' Roberts proceeds to put 100 years into context. Definitions, historiography, illusions, and myths are all discussed. Even our use of the term 'century' is shown to be an arbitrary concept useful for descriptive purposes only. It is very obvious that this is a well thought out and carefully crafted history and like Allstate's advertisement which implies that we are in the hands of insurance experts, this book makes it clear we are in the hands of an expert historian.<br />One of the difficulties with writing a world history is the problem of perspective. With such a broad subject, and a lengthy period of time, you have to be selective; you have to take a stand and start somewhere. As Roberts himself says &quot;history varies according to the position from which you view it.&quot; There must be an emphasis or a theme. The chapter entitled 'structures' quickly draws our attention to the importance of 'human numbers' such as commerce and demographics. Roberts does not try to say something about everything because, at best, it would mean offering general explanations, which he rigthly says are &quot;generally unhelpful&quot;. Perspective is more than an emphasis or starting point; it's also perception. &quot;What must never be lost to sight is the fact that all pasts were once upon a time, presents; all outcomes were once upon a time, peoples futures. History is made by people confronting predicaments [and] we are liable to judge them wrongly unless we try to keep in mind the limits to their own perception of what those predicaments were&quot;. Here Roberts has given us a lucid description of the relativism of history. How our ancestors perceived their world at the start of the century is vastly different from the perspective we take today. It is a point Roberts drives home; &quot;we can only begin to approach understanding by recognizing how much they were not like us. Any history of the 20th century must begin in a world deeply unlike our own&quot;. This justifies the section on 'the shape of things to come' and explains why nearly one quarter of the book concentrates on the period before 1918. A constant frame of reference against which we view some of the revolutionary changes that took place in our century.<br />Robert's explanation of one of those revolutionary changes; the one of my youth, put me in my place. Like most youth of the sixties, the experience of the decade was, I thought, profound. Not so; &quot;although attention-catching [it] was largely froth, the least profound manifestation of a great change&quot;. He's finished with the sixties within 30 pages. To have my youthful existential ruminations so callously dispatched was definitely bubble-bursting.  Roberts is not finished pin-pricking. Although the book is justifiably Eurocentric - &quot;in many ways the world actually was centered on Europe when the 20th century began&quot; - he is quick to point out that those days are gone. Appropriately, &quot;much of that century's story is of how and why that ceased to be true&quot;. One of the indicators of a true Eurocentric perspective is the emphasis placed on the role of the 'Great War'. Roberts gives it short shrift - 30 pages, bursting the bubble of that particular world view.<br />The book takes a truly international view, with historical strands from the periphery being explained, and woven together into larger themes. In the event that an international perspective is mistaken for globalization, Westernization or even Americanization - as in Francis Fukuyama's post Cold War victory of liberal democracy - think again. The Cold War serves as the half-way marker for Robert's history but that's about it's only significance, and although globalization is mentioned, he is not convinced about the effectiveness of international institutions. As for the idea of civilizational and cultural influences usurping the role of nation states; he's ready with his pinsfor anyone daring to float those balloons.<br />Refreshingly opinionated, but very balanced; well written and very educational. A thoroughly enjoyable history of our century.	2001-03-23
US	50452306	R1AJ1HKBNTJKXP	067494836X	843801482	We Are All Multiculturalists Now	Books	4	8	9	N	N	On the frontline of the cultural wars	Mr Glazer has been on the frontline for a long time, as far back as the 1960's when he wrote 'Beyond the Melting Pot' except that back then we talked about the need for 'area studies'. It seems to me that the battle seems to have taken it's toll on Mr Glazer. Here he writes with a fatalistic, almost disillusioned approach; wistful in that he &quot;feels warmly attached to the old America&quot; and yet resigned to the fact that 'We are all Multiculturalists Now'. <br />The book is not a critique of multiculturalism because he allows some of the more egregious examples of it's extremes to go without comment, reporting them as if in acceptance of their permanence. Nor is the book an endorsement; his statement that  &quot;multiculturalism in education ...has, in a word, won&quot; is a simple remark, presented without enthusiasm or rancor, but with fatalism. This switch from optimism of earlier days to a more pessimistic outlook today, comes through in how surprised he is that &quot;we can disagree on what seems to me to be simple truths,&quot; and in the emergence of &quot;a hard institutionalization of differences.&quot; It's unfortunate that Mr Glazer focused on the signs and symptoms of multicultural malaise in his early chapters because it obscures his most profound point. One that although unpleasant, is a truth, and if widely accepted as a starting point, would go a long way to soften some of those hard positions and allow debate to return in place of vitriol. Glazer, on the African-American condition says &quot;where the community of descent defines an inescapable community of fate, where knowledge and moral values are indeed grounded in blood and history...[multiculturalism]...is the price America is paying for it's inability or unwillingness to incorporate into it's society African-Americans, in the same way and to the same degree it has incorporated so many groups.&quot; A great synopsis of what Orlando Patterson calls 'the Ordeal of Integration'. If this recognition is all that multiculturalism demands at it's most basic level then we do not have to cater to it's extremes. There are in fact encouraging signs that many students of the subject are demanding mid-course corrections. I think that Mr Glazer's book is needlessly pessimistic and that there will emerge, again, a proper discourse on the subject. Sane, rational and compassionate voices such as his are still very much in need and it would be a shame if years 'in the trenches' were to take it's toll and quieten him.	2001-03-23
US	50452306	R3TKKCQJJORHZT	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Like medicine, it's hard to swallow, but necessary	There are a few things to ponder before you wade into this tome. At 950 plus pages this book is hard to digest on this basis alone. Added to that is the certainty that you will put it down feeling drained and depressed by the author's elucidation of the evil that characterized Nazi Germany. Speaking of clarity, if you like to read books that require you to have your OED handy, this book should suffice. There are places where one gets the distinct impression that Burleigh, in the (best?) traditions of English academia, intends his work to be accessible to the intelligentsia. Are we, the Hoi pol-loi, to be kept busy looking up entries? The following sentence (which got me twice) is typical: &quot;On the right, an egregious elision of ethnic and political issues gained ground.&quot; Here's one I didn't have to look up Mr Burleigh - your book is too Pedagogical. <br />That said, the book shows that he is serious about his history, and there is a lot to be learned. His 'new history' is more of a new perspective. Rather than focus on Hitler or any of the other Nazis, the view is more useful; it's broad - the German people as a whole. His emphasis is not on culture either. Racism, totalitarianism, forced sterilzations, eugenics, and police brutality hardly qualify as culture. What Burleigh does well is meticuously show how Germany slowly slid into the state that it became; an evil, despotic, system. It's more than that though because this implies that the rot remained at the political level. Not so, Burleigh sees a &quot;progressive, and almost total, moral collapse of an advanced industrial society at the heart of Europe, many of whose citizens abandoned the burden of thinking for themselves, in favour of what George Orwell described as the tom-tom beat of a latterday tribalism. They put their faith in evil men promising a great leap into a heroic future, offereing a 'quick fix' to Germany's local, and modern society's general, problems.&quot; And problems there were. Carefully laid out is a description of the economic and social malaise that followed the country's shattering in WWI. The 'Great War' was only so for the victors; the vanquished felt themselves in undeserved purgatory, and they were looking for someone to lead them out. This partly explains the emergence of a 'Hitler Cult' with all the pseudoreligious trappings; the Nazis promised salvation.<br />The rise of totalitarianism is one of the areas where Burleigh's analysis shines. I had read elsewhere (one of Lukacs's books I think) and come to accept, that for the average German their experience of Naziism was not that of a Police State, at least not before the war. In 1934, Hitler said something to this effect (if my memory serves me); &quot;bayonets do not terrorize the people, the government is supported by the confidence of the people&quot; (please realize, I am not quoting from memory of the experience!, just the book where I read it). Burleigh totally refutes this timetable. He says that &quot;Nazi terror from above and the demise of the rule of law started just a few days after Hitler's assumption of power in January 1933...By 1936, a brutal police state had penetrated virtually all spheres of life&quot;. Burleigh is quite original is his exposition of this brutality. He looks at it from the perspective of two different populations at two different times - the domestic population in peacetime and foreign (and domestic) populations during the war. <br />The book is well researched and very scholarly and as such will be referenced by many historians for some time to come, and just like medicine, if you take it in small doses, it's palatable.	2001-03-19
US	50452306	RG5HFARFTREP3	0300080301	888346679	Five Days in London, May 1940	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Not a holiday weekend	The period in question is the five days beginning Friday, May 24th 1940 through to Tuesday, May 28th. It started with France in rout and ended with Churchill deciding to resolutely fight on. In between there was a weight of implications considered, matters pondered and many people were consulted. What was so significant about &quot;Churchill's weekend of courage and remarkable self confidence,&quot; as Lukacs calls it?<br />Let's look at the preceeding few days to put things into context and to get a better perspective of the issues facing Churchill. The matters were domestic and foreign, political and strategic, life and death.<br />May 10th - Churchill is appointed Prime Minister after the House of Commons revolts and ousts Neville Chamberlain as leader. The Germans overwhelm Dutch and Belgian defences; the huge Belgian border fort of Eben Emael is captured; the conquest of both Holland and Belgium is underway.<br />May 13th - Churchill speaks to the House of Commons delivering his 'victory at all costs speech'. A speech that from this vantage point in time, seems stirring. &quot;I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and sweat...You ask what is our aim? I can answer in one word: victory; victory at all costs, victory in spite of all terror, victory however long and hard the road may be; for without victory there is no survival.' The speech fell flat. Churchill was received coldly by fellow parliamentarians and he didn't stir them at all. Chamberlain, in contrast, was given a rousing welcome on entering Parliament. <br />May 15th - Germany invades France. Churchill learns that German tanks are pouring through the Sedan gap. The French premier tells Churchill that he fears all is lost.   May 21st - Lord Gort, the head of the 300,000+ British Expeditionary Force (BEF), begins a strategic pull back of his forces towards the French coast near a little port town called Dunkirk.<br />Certainly, neither Gort nor Churchill had any notion at this time of the comingnear-disaster-turned-miracle that Dunkirk would come to represent. The rout had not yet begun and the last men would be lifted off French soil in the first week of June. Churchill was attending to problems elsewhere; in England, in Parliament, and right there in his own War Cabinet. Besides Churchill, other members of the War Cabinet were Chamberlain, foreign secretary Lord Halifax, Clement Attlee and Arthur Greenwood; the latter two as leaders of the Labour Party, were there in the interest of national unity. Lukacs' book is focused on Churchill's relationship with this small group of men, specifically Chamberlain and Lord Halifax. To say there was a cabal at work would be overstating it, but only because nothing came to fruition. Lord Halifax's attempts at pursuing possible peace initiatives, and the positioning for places in a government of occupied England, can only be described as Machiavellian. Churchill was faced with pessimists inside his party and in the wider conservative minded upper echelons of British society. The only support for his views were to be found in the general populace. How could he sway important opinion makers to his way of thinking? How could he do this with a minimal support base in his own party? The majority of the conservative members of parliament felt that if not Chamberlain as Prime Minister, then Halifax. Lukacs excells in showing how, first Churchill, and then Chamberlain, began to work to unite party and then people around the cause. Chamberlain's conversion from the appeasor is well developed. His realization and insight into the true nature of Hitler was almost a 'scales falling from the eyes' experience and once achieved, he became an active supporter of Churchill. Ironically, he was motivated by his absolute conviction that if halifax were made PM, he would immediately seek peace. Many historians have speculated on what would have happened had Halifax replaced Churchill or had Churchill himself succumbed. Churchill wrote President Roosevelt on May 15th saying, &quot;As you are no doubt aware, the scene has darkened swiftly...&quot; He was seeking US material assistance for England but he could just as easily have been talking about the pressure he was under when he concludes ...&quot;and the weight may be more than we can bear&quot;.<br />This is an excellent exposition of the inner workings of the War Cabinet and of the men who were it's principals. The book highlights the subtlety of history. Small moments in time are often significant but get lost in the momentous occassions that surround them. Lukacs has made these few days in 1940 come alive.	2001-03-18
US	50452306	RJG90TA2Z2Q1S	0393321088	33787562	One World Divisible: A Global History Since 1945 (The Global Century Series)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	One World Divisible; idea of global society - risible	Tackling world history of course is no laughing matter and although Reynolds exhibits his sense of humor throughout, there is no doubt that he takes his work seriously (based on the massive amount of research that went into this book) and there is nothing frivolous at all about the central theme of 'One World Divisible'. The basic view is that world history since 1945 has been very contradictory. Reynolds sees a &quot;dialectical process of greater integration&quot; but also &quot;greater fragmentation&quot;. He says &quot;the tools of unification...also served as weapons of disintegration - creating new states and sects, reinforcing old cultures and nations&quot;. This view of world history as one of change through the conflict of opposing forces is not limited to the ideological battles of the cold war nor even the armed battles of regional hot wars. Reynolds includes the conflicts arising from &quot;reaffirmation of national culture in the face of globalization&quot;. Forces that act to seperate at the same time that instant communication, technological revolutions and the global economy are shrinking the world; opposing forces that make the idea of a global society ludicrous. Reynolds however is not talking about a 'Clash of Civilizations' as in Samuel Huntington's book; he still sees world history since 1945 as being primarily a story of nations, not cultures. <br />In steering away from focusing on cultural influences in world history Reynolds gives us his own personal cultural perspective. The book, he says, is &quot;a limited and personal view&quot;; personal being that of a white middle-aged English academic. The world view of many historians fitting this description sees the cold war as the fulcrum on which all latter 20th century history rests.  Not so with Reynolds. He sees this as Western self satisfaction and a blinkered view of history and he certainly does not see victory in the cold war as any great portent for the West. There is a much broader viewhere, and a wealth of knowledge about the wider world; other worlds even, such as the 'Third World' or the developing world. <br />'One World Divisible' is encyclopedic; it's full of statistics, tables, dates and mini biographies of world leaders. The amount of data available, strangely enough, is one of the weaknesses of the book. Reynolds has an easy narrative style and a dry sense of humor that make reading enjoyable, but the humor is not able to hold out for the distance - over 800 pages, and the narrative can't quite bring all the data together neatly enough. In the end the book suffers from the same fate as Reynolds' history - coming together but also apart - one book divisible.	2001-03-13
US	50452306	R11P9D2TDOBEV6	0586054472	251309605	Xpd	Books	3	2	6	N	N	e(X)tremely (P)oor (D)ialogue	The usual Deighton staples are here - intriguing and involved plot and deep, well developed characters. The plot centers on the so called 'Hitler Minutes'. Documents uncovered in California after the war which tell of a secret meeting between Hitler and Churchill in 1940. What was discussed, what was promised and what became of the meeting are the subject of the novel. British Intelligence, the Russians and the CIA are all involved and the intricacies of the plot are sufficient to keep us guessing up to the conclusion. The only problem with the book is the dialogue between the characters. It's a big problem though as it's simplicity and banality is distracting. 'Winter', a Deighton novel I recently re-read suffers a little from the same shallow conversations; so similar in fact that I looked to see if they were written at the same time. They're seven years apart. Even good mystery writers can have recurring  dry spells I guess.	2001-03-09
US	50452306	R28BOCB2DLCCXV	0345359313	282852157	Winter: A Novel of a Berlin Family	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Better appreciated if you know Bernard Samson	Although 'Winter' is about the family of the same name and although it reads quite well as a stand alone novel, I appreciated it more having already read quite a few of the Bernard Samson stories. It puts Bernard in historical context and provides background for some of the central characters of the 'Samson series'- most notably Bret Rensselaer.<br />As a novel in it's own right Winter tells the tale of two German brothers - Peter and Pauli Winter. Starting from their childhood in 1899 we see them develop. Peter, the elder blossoming under the care of his father, while Pauli, easygoing and carefree is in his father's shadow - the second son complex - striving unsuccessfully to please his father. We end up liking Pauli more than the serious, staid Peter and this is surprising because Pauli becomes the chief legal advisor to Nazi Germany.<br />The strength of the story is in character development. Pauli is not weak, or evil. There is no basic character flaw here that led him to serve the Nazis. He's not A Nazi himself, nor is he anti-semitic.<br />The book is a good read because he is believable and plausible and is an interesting study of a good man gone wrong. It's a bit long for the story it tells though, and it's not because it details the historical events taking place - these are only mentioned in passing in conversations amongst the characters.	2001-03-07
US	50452306	R11V6BEYJVT8DY	1884822452	629335900	Skyscrapers: A History of the World's Most Famous and Important Skyscrapers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Tall stories	This is a lovely introduction to the architectural splendor that skyscrapers are, with detailed looks at 50 of these wonders. Sampling so few and the fact that the photographs are in black &amp; white might make you want to look elsewhere. Wait. This book does not disappoint. It's not just about the architectural facts of these buildings (although that is done very tidily in little fact sheets). There is much more. Starting with an interview with Philip Johnson (wise old man of Amercian Architects) the author then delves into the sociological, cultural, physical and even the psychological reasons and motivations for this continuous stretching upward of our built environment.<br />After discussing 50 structures in detail, Dupre close with a list of the '100 Tallest Buildings in the World', providing part of the answer as to why we continue to strive upward. Developing countries, growing economically and feeling their strength have naturally enough sought to express this on their landscape and it is therefore no surprise to learn that a large number of the tallest buildings in the world are just that...outside the US and in the world.	2001-03-02
US	50452306	R2KO7I8G26NB9E	0745140823	966099780	Spy Hook	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Hooked on a new Bernard Samson series	The start of the 2nd Trilogy, following on from 'Game, Set and Match'. This story starts with the problem of missing funds (1/2 million pounds). Bernard, ever the gopher and trouble-shooter (or is it just that he get's things done) is sent to Washington to find out what Jim Prettyman can tell London about the missing funds. Jim's not talking. First, he refuses to tell Bernard anything and then, just hours later, is apparently murdered. <br />We're off. On another Deighton intrigue, this one resolving itself in California. Along the way, Gloria (Bernard's girlfiend) introduces him to Dodo, a Hungarian ex-spook that used to work for the West. He seems to know things - about the money's use, about what's going on in the service, about Bernard's father's intelligence work in WWII. All of this has implications for the plot - perhaps the most convoluted and satisfying of the series.<br />Bernard's trip to California reveals surprises, by way of persons, thought gone, but whose appearance here helps explain the disappearance of the money and what it is being used for.	2001-03-02
US	50452306	R7MC7H75U8W5T	0810963914	623947667	Great Auk	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Aukful story of extinction	Ask anyone you know with even a cursory knowledge of birds and animals to name you an extinct species. After the Dodo, the Great Auk will probably be the most frequently mentioned name. The reason the story of the Auk's extinction has remained in our brains, in the recesses yes, but remembered nevertheless, is because of the sheer size and horrific destruction associated with the hunting to extinction of the bird. <br />The book deals not just with the hunting of these large flightless birds (think Penguin) for food but also looks at what their feathers, fat and oils were used for. Other subjects include the history of the trade, a full description of the birds appearance and it's behaviour. Although the last bird died in 1844 the story does not end with their demise. Fuller talks about the stuffed specimens and the eggs and how the greed associated with the Auk's extinction continued in the behavoir of collectors and museums.<br />Plenty of color illustrations. Gift for a bird lover.	2001-03-01
US	50452306	R3GEF9VDH39P9D	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Culture clubbed	It always helps me if I keep a books context in mind while reading it. 'Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order' was written by an individual who was a foreign policy advisor to presidents. As such, it's style naturally is one of offering policy recommendations and suggestions. It is influenced by the times in which it was written. The West was basking in the warmth of it's victory in the Cold War and giddy with the success of the United Nations forces over Iraq in the Gulf War - peace, unity, harmony. It was the 'End of History' as another writer (Francis Fukuyama) had been saying - Western liberal-democratic ideals and values had won. There was nothing more to do, no more history to be written. Along comes 'Clash of the Civilizations' with it's argument that &quot;culture and cultural identities, which at the broadest level are civilization identities, are shaping the patterns of cohesion, disintegration, and conflict in the post-Cold War world.&quot; It's time to let go of our narrow, blinkered, focus on nation states and their geopolitical agendas. Mr Huntington says that &quot;the most important distinctions among peoples are not ideological, political, or economic. They are cultural. Peoples and nations are attempting to answer the most basic question humans can face: Who are we?&quot; Naturally, the question is answered then by referring to cultural factors - religion, language, traditions, customs, values and history. <br />I am OK with his argument so far and even with his categorization of the world's people into 7 or 8 civilizations; the three major ones of most concern in the book are - Western, Islamic and Sinic. He disappoints me though by not having a specific definition of exactly what a civilization is and with his light treatment of the history of civilizations, specifically how they have changed and evolved over time. It's important to know exactly what we are talking about because Mr Huntington's central point is that the &quot;rivalry of superpowers is replaced by the clash of civilizations&quot; and he sees a clash coming between the West and either or both of the other two major civilizations. He says civilizations may be very large, such as the Chinese, or very small, such as &quot;the Anglophone Caribbean&quot;. By birth I am a member of the latter group so naturally I sat up and paid attention to what he was saying...and I found some fault. A civilization such as the Anglophone Caribbean is a civilization of migrants. My Anglophone Caribbean schoolmates were of the following ancestry: African, Lebanese, Syrian, Portuguese, Scotish, English and Chinese. They were Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, Protestant. In short - multicultural. We shared a language in common and a heritage of having come from somewhere else, the majority by force.<br />Mr Huntington is concerned about multiculturalism. He sees it as the spark that will set the civilization clash ablaze or at the very least lead to disintegration and internal warfare. Yugoslavia being an example of what happens to a country where cultural factors become the means for identifying oneself. His concern is that we remain out of such 'intracivilization disputes'. It is in the interest of the US and Europe &quot;to recognize that Western intervention in the affairs of other civilizations is probably the single most dangerous source of instability and potential global conflict in a multicivilization world&quot;. Having said that Mr Huntington states that mullticulturalism at home threatens the United States...multiculturists want to make America like the world. A multicultural America is impossible because a non-Western America is not American&quot;. To me the argument can't cut both ways. If multiculturalism is OK abroad, - intracivilizational wars are caused by denying or repressing cultural expression - then how can it be such a danger in the US? Back to the 'Anglophone Caribbean' argument for a minute. Having migrated to the United States, there is another bit of heritage that my children inherit. Children who are neither 'Anglophone Caribbean' nor 'Western', but simply American. What about my same 'Anglophone Caribbean' Chinese and Syrian schoolmates - Are there children going to be 'Sinic' or 'Islamic'. This argument, by extension applies to every one here.<br />It's a brilliant book, well written and provocative and there is a lot that he says that is worth thinking about. Such as the need to understand civilization disputes before entering them. It's just that it doesn't seem to take into consideration that civilizations are very accomodating and extremely dynamic entities.	2001-02-28
US	50452306	R2BURNHPN0DC9L	0425176428	539869630	What If?: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Counterfactuals - How historians have fun	Counterfactuals are simply 'What if's'. Here they take the form of twenty essays by well known military historians covering significant battles from mankind's warring past - from the Assyrian siege of Jerusalem in 701 BC to Chiang Kai-shek's war with Mao's communists in 1946. When historians use a pretentious term like 'counterfactual' to describe this type of historical analysis it leads us to cringe in anticipation of tedious, fact-filled, starchy descriptions of the battles.<br />Not so at all. First of all the essays are by some of the best military historians writing today - William McNeill, John Keegan, David McCullough, Alistair Horne and Stephen Ambrose to name a few. Secondly and more importantly, it is obvious that each and every one of the essays is a work of considerable research, creative thought and attention to the possibilities of what might have been.<br />Regardless of what battle, era or commander intersts you - ancient Israel, Persia, Greece, the Mongols, Cortes, the American Revolution, the Civil War, Napoleon or Hitler - you'll find an essay describing an alternative outcome. And while it is true what the editor quotes historian E H Carr as saying, that this is not an &quot;idle parlour game&quot;, there is no doubt in my mind that each and every one of these historians enjoyed themselves fully and had fun writing these essays.	2001-02-27
US	50452306	R1KQ560X5QOO4U	0816041245	97843974	Across the Top of the World: The Quest for the Northwest Passage	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Norse by Nortwest	The Norsemen may have been the first to attempt this passage but they were certainly not the last. Over 300 years of trials and bitter, freezing failures were to come and go before Norwegian Roald Amundsen finally conquered the passage in the early 20th century. It is not a coincidence that the only other undiscovered lands and the last of the remaining great adventures was also in a snowy, bitter climate - Shackleton's voyage to the Antarctic on the 'Endurance' was taking place at about the same time.<br />Disimilar to other 'popular history' books, this one does not have the same easy, flowing, narrative style but what it does differently and better than other pop histories is give details. Here you learn all that you could possibly want to know about every unfortunate mission that unsuccessfully sought the Nortwest passage. Crammed with maps, photos and illustrations it's all here. The little sidebar descriptions - mini biographies- of many of the explorers is a nice feature.	2001-02-26
US	50452306	R3287W7JW2JVA4	0060195185	426668709	The Great Arc: The Dramatic Tale of How India was Mapped and Everest was Named	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Arc you kidding me?...	...a whole book about some dusty old surveyors, trigonometric measurements, arcs of meridian and strange measuring devices called theodolites. Yes, and brilliantly done too and immensely readable. It's hard to believe that a book about such arcane subjects as those mentioned above could be made interesting - but Keay has done it. <br />There is no need no know trigonometry, cartography or any '-phy' for that matter. The book is short and so spends very little time on the technicalities of the subject, instead focusing more on where the interesting parts are always to be found - in the people and the places of these historical adventures. But what got the people - firstly Colonel William Lambton and then Sir George Everest (1790-1866), following Lambton's death in 1823, to the place - India, in the first place. An adventure in mapping. At the start of the 19th century cartography was still very basic. There were no standards of measurement or common method for portraying relief features such as mountains. Many parts of the world had not been surveyed and a complete grid of latitude and longitude lines covering the Earth was still decades away. The arc of the story was simply a part (a large part) of one such a line of longitude.<br />Lambton was like many surveyor's of the day in that it was typically the army that undertook these mapping projects, but what was not typical, was the man himself and the size of the project. Mapping India was a mammoth project and underlying it was Lambton's ultimate goal of obtaining an accurate measurement of the Earth. Thousands would be involved, it would take decades and outlast Lambton himself. The task would be finished in 1843 by Sir George Everest who would, along the way, have his name recorded for posterity on a certain Himalayan Mountain.<br />Although Lambton can not match Sir George Everest with a mountain as his public recognition, he might very well be satisfied with knowing that credit for starting The Great Trigonometric Survey, is all his and that even long after his death, his pioneering work was responsible for India being considered the best surveyed country in the world. Being the sort of man Keay depicts Lambton as, that would probably be praise enough for him.	2001-02-26
US	50452306	R8A62QEVMI0TR	0802713432	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Sun and daughter at the center of Galileo's universe	There are three things this book is and two that it is not. (1) It is a biography. The two ancient persons that come to life in this book are Galileo Galilei (1564-1642) and his illigitimate daughter Virginia Galelei (1600-1634). (2) The book is about one of the greatest scientific discoveries of the Modern Era - Galileo's proof of Nicolaus Copernicus's theory that the Earth rotates on it's own axis and revolves around the Sun. (3) 'Galileo's Daughter' is Popular History and in the best tradition of that genre of history writing we have an ending that appeals to us - the 'populous'. Now for the things the book isn't (I) It is not a new scientific explanation of the Cosmos. There is no new theory or treatsie uncovered by Sobel. (II) Although it is science and history it definitely is not dry, boring or hard to read. Sobel writes with a clear, easy narrative style that makes accessible the history of the period and the scientific ideas, and brings to life the warm and loving relationship Galileo and his daughter shared.<br />The science of the book is centered on the following facts: In the early 16th century, Ptolemy's view of the Cosmos - Earth at the center and the heavens revolving around us - still held sway. The concept of a central, stationary Earth was in accord with the Scriptures. The Psalmist says &quot;He set the Earth on it's foundations; it can never be moved&quot; (Psalm 104). In 1543 Nicolaus Copernicus took a more revolutionary view and made our small, humble Earth rotate, rather than have the vast heavens revolving around us. in 1610 Galileo, with telescope pointed heavenward, proved Copernicus correct. The evidence was to be found in the Moons effect on the tides - thus his 'Treatsie on the Tides. In 1616 the church examined the Copernican system and found it wanting - spiritually. Galileo was ordered to give up his support of the idea of a Sun centered Cosmos. Pope Urban VIII later softened slightly and said Galileo could use the Copernican systemas a mathematical tool in astronomical calculations and he could even write about it, with one proviso - it must be treated as a theoretical concept only.<br />Sobel makes one point very clear - one I have obscured with talking about facts - Galileo wrote with great style. It's seen in how he presented sensitive ideas; he learned to distance himself, writing &quot;as though he were an impartial bystander&quot;. Some of it was due to concerns about what the church would think and some of it was because he was equivocal about his own ideas. Sobel says there was a battle in his mind between &quot;the heavens he revered as a good Catholic and the heavens he revealed through his telescope&quot;. This was shown in 1633 with the publishing of his great treatsie &quot;Dialogue On The Two Chief World Systems: Ptolemaic and Copernican'. It took the form of a dialogue between two fictional characters, each discussing the merits of the their positions, yet never making a definitive declaration. The church saw it as a ruse and hauled the old and sick Galileo to Rome to answer to the officers of the Inqusition. Sobel describes the times - the 'Thirty Years' war was raging and the church was on the defensive against Reformation minded Protestants - and the trial - harsh and humiliating. Galileo publicly recanted his scientific beliefs but was nevertheless found guilty of challenging the authority of the church. His books were permanently banned as heretical and he was sentenced to house arrest for the remainder of his life. <br />This is the history and these are the scientific theories of Galileo. Interesting as it may be and well written as it is, the real beauty of the book is the eponymous Galileo's daughter. Born Virginia Galilei she was the eldest of three illigitimate children Galileo had with Marina Gamba. Illigitimate and therefore unable to be married, Galileo placed her at age 13, and her younger sister, into a convent. She took the name Maria Celeste. Seperation did not affect the relationship with her father and Sobel weaves into the book, letters she wrote, beginning in 1623 and continuing up to her death in 1634 at age 33. Her letters are warm, humorous, caring and loving and show that she had a close relationship with her father. Suor Maria Celeste starched his shirt collars and made sweets for him and Galileo in return sent food and money to his daughter. There is nothing significant about this filial affection until you think about the significant events that were swirling around them. Suor Maria Celeste remained affectionate towards her father throughout his trial. The relationship never wavered even when the church she served banned the books of a man seen as an enemy of the church - a man she nevertheless still called lord father. After her death (from dysentry) Galileo wrote a friend saying that he was &quot;filled with immense sadness and melancholy&quot; and even years later, writing to a former student, he had her in mind &quot;I am left with no other comfort than the memory of the sweetness of former frienships&quot;. Sobel then concludes by telling us that 95 years after Galileo's death his remains were dug up for reburial elsewhere, and two skeletons were found in his grave. The second was identified as that of a female who had died young. Sobel says &quot;even now, no inscription on Galileo's much visited tomb in Santa Croce announces the presence of Suor Maria Celeste. But she is still there&quot;.<br />Some may quibble about the ending, but remember, this is 'popular history' and this is about as popular and as pleasing an ending any book can have.	2001-02-26
US	50452306	R4NH3SGM6474E	0140292608	222301968	Nathaniel's Nutmeg: Or the True and Incredible Adventures of the Spice Trader Who Changed the Course of History	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I had a little nut tree...	...and nothing would it bear/save a silver nutmeg and a golden pear. Unlike this children's poem we know that nutmegs aren't silver nor are pears gold; but after reading this fascinating bit of popular history you will see that in 17th century Europe, the lowly lttle nutmeg, &quot;dry, wrinkled and not much bigger than a garden pea,&quot; was worth more than it's weight in silver and gold. <br />How is that possible? How could this insignificant little nut from unknown isles be worth men sailing halfway around the world, enduring a 3 year round trip, facing diseases, and dangers, fighting wars for it and setting up trading empires over it.? The answer lay in one rather prosaic reason and another more enthralling. Nutmegs were excellent preservatives and were in huge demand for preparing various meats. There were however other spices that could do the job and using them as preservatives was nothing new. That may not explain it, but &quot;when the physicians of Elizabethan London began claiming [that it was]...the only certain cure for the plague&quot; then the nut, always costly, &quot;rocketed in price&quot;. It was seen as a cure all<br />The price factor was certainly accentuated by the difficulty in obtaining the spice. It was rare - &quot;a tree so fussy about climate and soil that it would only grow on a tiny cluster of islands, the Banda archipelago, which were of such impossible remoteness that no one in Europe could be sure if they existed at all&quot;. They did. South of a much larger grouping of islands called the Moluccas or 'Spice Islands', which are west of New Guinea. The Banda Islands are now part of Indonesia. <br />What makes this story interesting is the tale of how the Portuguese and the Spanish first started the trade and then how more seriously and significantly the English and then the Dutch took it up. These two nations formed their respective East India Companies - names which although long faded into history still tell of days of vast richesand trading empires. The Dutch were the most determined and the tales told by Milton are not all glamorous ones of riches. There were deeds of treachery and torture especially after the arrival of one Jan Coen, as Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies. He was irascible, impatient and intent on expelling the English from the area. He did not care much for the native Bandanese population either. &quot;They are indolent people of whom little good can be expected&quot;. As such he sold most into slavery and massacred others. He then turned his attention to Run, a tiny English outpost and fortress island at the western extreme of the Banda archipelago. Here we finally meet the book's eponymous Captain Nathaniel Courthope. The Captain who arrived in 1616, marshaled his men and they made a heroic stand, holding out for 4 years against far superior numbers of Dutch. Finally in one last battle at sea Courthope fell, shot in the chest, and plunged overboard never to be seen again. The island was conquered. Not satisfied with victory, Coen wants to punish. He despoils the land by ripping out all the nutmeg trees and in a final act of hate, tortures and butchers English merchants on the faraway spice isle of Amboyna.   The story could have and should have ended here. But on this sour note?, Not where the setting is lush, paradise, spice isles, and the subject is grand - adventure on the seas, riches to be made. There should be a hero! It's no surprise then that Milton was unable to leave the story there and so we get an end that is a bit of a stretch. He argues that Coulthope's last stand allowed the English, some 50 years later to trade their rights to Run for a large island with a tiny town called New Amsterdam (which they were occupying). Nutmegs for what would eventually become the Big Apple. I wonder how many New Yorker's know, or should I say believe, that they owe their good fortune to one Nathaniel Coulthope. The ending doesn't really spoil the book. Buy and enjoyit...you don't have to buy the theory.	2001-02-25
US	50452306	R2GBES780W7K20	0671799320	635706820	The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, & Power	Books	4	52	53	N	N	From 'Rock Oil' through to the 'Age of Oil'...	...'Hydrocarbon Man' rocks on. 'Rock Oil' and the 'Age of Oil' are two descriptive phrases that Yergin uses to 'bookend' his epic story - 'The Prize'. He starts with a vignette about how rock oil - a black, sticky substance found in the backwoods of northwest Pennsylvania and used as a folk medicine came to be made into an illuminant (kerosene); one which quickly supplanted whale oil, camphene and 'town gas' (a distillate of coal) as the preferred means of lighting one's home. Yergin concludes with the prospects for the future of us -'hydrocarbon man' as we continue with our dependancy on oil.<br />From the opening pages it is clear that Yergin is an authority on the subject. We have not travelled more than 10 years along the 150 year history of oil and yet we have already learnt it's origins, it's ancient and alternate uses, the products it was competing with, and we have met some of the early inventors, entrepreneur's and explorers. <br />There are three themes that Yergin develops throughout the book. Firstly, the story of oil is the story of capitalism and modern business. The province of Fortune 500 companies, multinationals and the underpinning of wealth in the industrialized west. Certainly, from as early as the late 19th Century, with the emergence of Standard Oil as the first multinational company (a subject Yergin devotes a fair amount of time to),- it's hard to refute this claim. Yergin does recognize that the late 20th Century was less oil lubricated and more computer chip driven, and it's obvious to all of us that this trend will only intensify in this century. Indeed from the time the first edition of 'The Prize' was published (just before the Gulf War) and even since this edition came out in 1993 -things have changed quite a bit economically. In 1990, seven of the top 20 Fortune 500 Companies were in the oil industry. Today you have to extend the search further, and even then only come up with Exxon-Mobil, Enron, Chevron and Texaco.<br />The second theme he highlights is the role oil had in strategic global geoplolitical decicions and disasters. He lays at the feet of 'oil politics' the Japanese decision to bomb Pearl Harbour and Germany's invasion of Russia. Typically in a classic example of the irony that history is famous for, the eventual defeat of these two empires was also due to oil (actually the lack of it). There are of course other more recent strategic oil wars - what was the Gulf War and the unprecedented United Nations stand against Iraq if not a defense of the 'blood supply' for industrialized nations? This revised edition of the book makes it quite clear that Iraq if successful in it's swallowing of Kuwait, would have been the most powerful nation in The Persian Gulf.<br />The third theme is more sociological and forces us to deal with questions not of history but of our future. Yergin states that we have become a 'Hydrocarbon Society' and thus we are 'Hydrocarbon Man'. What characterizes us as this new species? Basically that our cities, politics, economics, values - in fact almost all things material and of importance to us are lubricated with a concern about oil. This used to be seen as a universal good - but no more, There are some of us, Mr Yergin says, including himself, that are concerned about this dependency - It's impact on our behavior, our health and our environment and our ability to sustain our way of life.<br />I agree with other reviewers in that more could have been said on some issues such as alternative energy sources, the economic and environmental arguments for and against our continued reliance on oil and the spin off activities and other associated industries such as plastics and chemicals. But, in fairness to Mr Yergin, there is so much that you can and should say, especially when you find that it is taking you over 800 pages to say it. For me, as a history book on the oil industry, it's certainly long enough but more importantly - good enough.	2001-02-24
US	50452306	R3B36YGY79ZPYB	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	5	6	7	N	N	No more 'dead reckoning'	Where in the world am I? It's a question easily answered by most of us today - a quick check of an atlas, road map or if we are really confused - we ask someone. Back in the 18th Century though it was a question that had life or death implications. For European mariners who ventured far west or east of their home ports, the ability to tell how near or far they were to home or destination became a matter of 'dead reckoning' - basically an educated guess. It was called 'dead' for a reason as errors in calculating longitude by sight would frequently cause ships to rip themselves apart on land that was not supposed to be there.  <br />The search for an accurate means of determining longitude was spread over three centuries and had beaten the brightest minds of Europe. Longitude as a concept had been known about for a long time and it was even known that time and it's measurement was the critical factor. What science knew then about longitude can be summarized as follows: A spherical earth is equally divided into 360 degrees. A solar day (time sun takes to complete 360 degrees of earth) is 24 hours, so 1 hour equals 15 degrees and 1 degree distance is eqivalent to 4 minutes. At the equator every 1 degree travelled east or west is 60 nautical miles. The issue then was not what constited a degree or even how many miles seperated degrees but the problem remained one of knowing simultaneously, the time where you were and also at a known longitude. <br />An indicator of how serious this subject was taken was that England passed the Longitude Act of 1707 and offered a huge financial prize in order to find a useful means for determining longitude. Along came a simple clockmaker - John Harrison, unschooled in the sciences, neither astronomer nor mathematician, not a member of any of the great academies and unsophisticated in the ways of Parliament. If you like an underdog an outsider or the common man then Harrison is your guy. The solution was supposedly to be found in readingthe celestial map of the heavens and plotting the stars and planets, not in crude mechanical devices. The answer was thought to lie in the minds of men like Huygens and Newton not with a common uneducated clockmaker.<br />Harrison was persistent if nothing else and he kept perfecting his timepieces and eventually developed a chronometer that was given a sea test on November 18, 1871. It kept accurate enough time, not losing or gaining more than 3 seconds in a day, which over the known length of the trip from Portsmouth to Jamaica, provided a measure of longitude accurate to within a 1/2 of a degree or 30 miles. The old man had won! - but wait. The academy of sciences said it was a fluke, he had to prove it again.<br />What Sobel's book does so well is give us a clear description of the man John Harrison. The history surrounding this great scientific quest and the how it came to be seen as such an intractable problem and why the scientists had such a hard time accepting Harrison's solution is also explained. The problems and prejudices he faced were more to do with the fact that his solution demanded of the 'elite' of Europe - a new way of thinking and acceptance of others. As such it was more than a scientific solution it was more akin to a social revolution.	2001-02-21
US	50452306	R1I07R0X3237W9	0679757031	263184134	Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr.	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Patriarch &amp; philanthropist or rapacious Robber-Baron or...	... something in between these two extremes. How should we view John D Rockefeller Sr? There are many biographies of the man and they usually see him as one of these extremes. Chernow explains it this way &quot;like many moguls of the Gilded Age, Rockefeller was either glorified by partisan biographers, who could see no wrong, or villified by vitriolic critics, who could see no right&quot;. Chernow hopes to find that &quot;often elusive voice - neither too sympathetic nor too sharp&quot;. He is a good candidate to do so having previously written an excellent biography of JP Morgan and because he writes with a clear, readable prose and very easy style. Does Chernow succeed in striking a balance between the good, the bad - and I dare say some would argue, - the ugly aspects of 19th Century American business culture and it's leaders, as represented in the person of JD Rockefeller? Yes, I think Chernow does find a middle ground. Let's look at some of the characteristics of Rockefeller mentioned in the book and you can judge for yourself.<br />Rockefeller grew up with a tremendous respect for his mother and later developed an &quot;abiding respect for women&quot; in general. A lot of it stems from what his mother put up with and went through married to a bigamist husband. Rockefeller's father actually brought his pregnant mistress into their home. Rockefeller also learned something else from his mother - a deep love of God. This was strengthened with his marriage to Laura Celestia Spelman (Cettie), a pious, church loving woman. Rockefeller himself became very active in the Baptist church and practiced an evangelical faith which guided his personal and working life. According to him, sacrifice and hard work were the basis of a sound moral charcter. He is quoted as saying &quot;I have always regarded it as a religious duty to get all I could and to give all I could&quot;. This, we all know, Rockefeller demonstrated later in life by donating millions of dollars to charitiesand funding numerous endowments. Chernow also portrays him as a good father who frequently left work early to play with his children. <br />We can't talk about Rockefeller without talking about Standard Oil, which prior to Microsoft and IBM, was the best known case of the US Government and a private company at loggerheads over  business practices. To say that some of Standard Oil's behaviour was 'improper business practices' though, would be like saying Microsoft is a supplier in the computer industry - a vast understatement! Standard Oil has been responsible for some of the most nefarious acts in US business history such as the 'Cleveland massacre' in 1872 and the 'Ludlow massacre' of 1914. The first of these 'slaughters' showed Rockefeller at his ruthless best. Through an underhand deal that would please any robber baron worthy of the name, Rockefeller, in one move, struck down and swallowed up 22 out of 26 of his competitors. The victims in the second massacre were not companies but people. Colorado militiamen engaged in a battle with striking miners - 13 were killed, 11 were miner's children. As an industrialist, Rockefeller had no use for labour unions, nor as we have seen did he much care for competition. Rockefeller's solution to &quot;ruinous competition&quot; was deliberate, straightforward and simple. He &quot;conspired to kill competitive capitalism in favour of a new monopoly capitalism&quot; - a system which he intended to rule and in fact did rule when he reigned as America's most powerful industrialist and the world's richest human. <br />The book is best in describing his early years, the development and growth of the oil business and Standard Oil and also Rockefeller's later years when he became a philanthropist and likable old eccentric. From start to finish a balanced, well written, easy to read, detailed analysis of a man, a company and a time, not so long ago in America's past, but surely none of which we will ever see again.	2001-02-20
US	50452306	R2JWRXJR4RZ5M3	0345332687	643735305	London Match	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wheels within wheels	Previously, in two preceeding Bernard Samson books we found out that Fiona was a deep KGB plant in MI6. 'Game' went to her. Bernard, her husband was the one who exposed her and then got his own back at the KGB by helping with the defection of Fiona's deputy. 'Set' to Bernard. The concluding book in the trilogy and the decider of the 'match' is appropriately enough the most complex plot of the three. <br />It's bad enough that Bernard has not quite won back the full confidence of MI6, still smarting over Fiona's sting; they're naturally enough still suspicious of her husband. What's worse is that Bernard uncovers evidence that there is another 'mole' within MI6. Evidence points to Bret Rensselaer. It could not get more awkward for Bernard. Bret is his supervisor. Bernard suspects him of having had an affair with Fiona, and now that he is under investigation, Bret turns to Bernard as the only person who can clear him.<br />The book brilliantly puts all of this human emotion and drama into play as well as other domestic issues pressing in on Bernard. Fiona may try to take away their children, to live with her in East Berlin. Fiona's father, wealthy, better able to provide, and a doting grand-dad also wants the children and Bernard fears he may attempt a legal move. It's left to Bernard to deal with all of this and still find out who is the mole in MI6.	2001-02-19
US	50452306	R1M040TZUHBM4G	0345418344	114136396	Berlin Game	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Meet Bernard Samson	At the time of reading this book many years ago, I had no idea that this book was the first in a triple-trilogy of Bernard Samson spy novels. Actually I'm not so sure that Mr Deighton himself knew it at the time of writing. Doesn't matter if it ended up being the only one because this one is a good story on it's own and the characters are something else again. Bernard Samson the protagonist is a cynical but humorous middle aged ex-field agent for Britain's MI6. He's married to Fiona who also works in the agency. There is fidgety Dicky Cruyer, supervisor for the German Desk and Frank Harrington, of the Berlin office, preoccupied with his mistress who lives  the near the 'Wall' - (ah! does this mean good old pre 'Berlin Wall collapse', Cold War, East-West spy thriller?, you may ask. Yes indeed! and one of the best of the genre in terms of a complex plot with quite a twist at the end). <br />'Brahms Four' wants out of Berlin, and Bernard, who grew up in Berlin and knows it like the back of his hand, is sent to get him. He takes the mission against the objection of his wife and even though he's at the age where his best field days are in the past. The real danger to him and the mission though is that someone in London is leaking information to the KGB. I'm not revealing too much in telling you that the book concludes with Bernard succeeding in getting 'Brahms Four' and his secret out and at the same time exposing who the mole in MI6 is.<br />Good stuff, and certainly worth a sequel.	2001-02-19
US	50452306	R19I0NVGEURJWE	0345314999	122350546	Mexico Set	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Tennis anyone? 'Game' to Fiona, 'Set'...	...as yet undecided, in this the second book in the 'Berlin Game', 'Mexico Set' and 'London Match' spy trilogy featuring Bernard Samson. And what a contest this is - Bernard's wife - Fiona stunned most of us in the first book by being exposed as the long serving KGB mole inside MI6. She won that 'game' by defecting East, having done her damage and leaving more behind. Bernard is shattered. He exposed Fiona but is now under suspicion himself (MI6 is wondering - can you be married to a 'mole' for over a decade and not know? or is he one himself?).<br />Bernard has a chance to redeem himself  by bringing in Erich Stinnes, Fiona's KGB assistant who is supposedly defecting. Off he goes to Mexico to debrief Stinnes, but soon questions arise and Bernard is again in a fix. Is Stinnes a Fiona 'plant' designed to further discredit Bernard and convince London that he is KGB? or is he genuine? Poor Bernard. Amidst all this he has to contend with political infighting in MI6, unwanted advances from his sister in law, Tessa and deal with self doubt and guilt over Fiona. He often wonders whether the collapse of their marriage and Fiona's betrayal was all her own doing or did he have something to do with it. <br />Suffice it to say the plot unfolds suitably and all the above questions are satisfactorily answered.	2001-02-19
US	50452306	R3CDHPPPMZ3OHD	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	13	18	N	N	A short history of everybody over the last 13,000 years	That's the author's tongue-in-cheek claim for his book. The sub title for 'Guns, Germs and Steel' is 'The Fates of Human Societies' and any study, whether history or science that touches upon the nature of differences amongst people, is potentially frought with danger. Diamond recognizes this and is very direct, not at all tongue-in-cheek in stating &quot;in case...you shudder at the thought that you are about to read a racist treatsie, you aren't&quot;. The different stories of human history have nothing whatsoever to do with human racial differences. <br />This book is truly interdisciplinary and that is both it's strength and weakness. Strength in that it draws upon geography, archaeology, anthropology, biology, genetics, epidemology, physiology and of course history. It's a weakness in that no one person can be an expert in all fields and Diamond certainly is not. Strength again in that he recognizes this and confesses his biases - towards physiology and the influence of geography, more broadly - the power of environmental factors.<br />Very early on in the book we are told about the battle of Cajamarca. On November 16 1532 a small Spanish army met up with an Incan army 500 times it's size. There were 168 conquistadores, (only 62 on horseback) and approximately 80,000 Incas led by their king - Atahuallpa. Before nightfall on the day of the battle, the Spaniards had killed over 7,000 Incas without the loss of a single man. How? Certainly the Spaniards of the day claimed a miracle, afterall it was Atahuallpa's snubbing of a Bible that precipitated the attack. Diamond offers a more prosaic yet equally powerful explanation. According to Diamond there were 'proximate causes' and underlying these are 'ultimate causes' This pattern of causation, some of it purely accidental, was true then and has remained true throughout human history and is the basis for his theory of why people are different. Back to Cajamarca for a minute to explain. The proximate causes were guns,germs and steel - &quot;immediate reasons for Pizzaro's success included military technology based on guns, steel weapons, and horses; infectious diseases endemic in Eurasia&quot;. But why did these advantages come to reside with the Europeans rather than in the new world? Answering that is a matter of developing 'chains of causation' and Diamond spends the greater part of his book discussing the consequences of them. Basically it boils down to the following: food production, unequal distribution of resources, differential rates of diffusion of innovations, domestication of crops &amp; animals and developing immunities to their diseases and finally differences in geography and environment affecting population size and strength. I have given these factors short shrift here but Diamond puts his facts and evidence together in a coherent, plausible and thankfully, very easy to read book. Thoroughly enjoyable and educational.	2001-02-16
US	50452306	R1627ZFMNIX0QU	0679766693	665422023	The Way of the World: From the Dawn of Civilizations to the Eve of the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	16	16	N	N	The eight giant steps of man	There are 8 crucial development stages in the history of mankind identified by Fromkin in this book. Before you can take a giant step though, you have to learn how to crawl. This is especially true if your subject is as large as universal history - the story of the world since the inception of civilization. It's appropriate then that the book begins with the origins of man.'Becoming Human' is the first of the eight steps, quickly followed by 'Inventing Civilzation'. Each step is centered on a significant human achievement; here we learn about the discovery of agriculture and the building of the first cities. Step 3 is 'Developing a Conscience' which focuses on the emergence of religions and moral systems simultaneously in separate cultures. Other steps, in order, are: 'Seeking a Lasting Peace' 'Achieving Rationality''Uniting the Planet''Releasing Nature's Energies' and lastly 'Ruling Ourselves'<br />With such a daunting spread of history, it's quite a challenge for Fromkin to properly explain the main elements of it to readers, to allow us to get a meaning and feel for the whole - especially if you do it in 222 pages.  Fortunately the author is equal to it. He obviously had to 'cut and carve' history to fit in here. In answering questions such as - Why have some societies thrived and others disappeared? What from the past is a reliable guide to the future? - Fromkin obviously had to make some choices in the book. He admits that &quot;telling one story necessarily means not telling another&quot;. The art of good history then is not only being aware of your biases but having sufficient style to be able to tell the story. Fromkin's style is conciseness, clarity and easy reading. He is able to contain complex ideas or events in short sentences - &quot;the war resumed in 1939-1945 and Germany lost again&quot; and he can describe the work of great men and women of culture in a few words. Writing about Galileo, Bacon and Descartes, he says they were &quot;men of skepticismin thought and moderation in action&quot;.<br />Two recurring themes in the book are that change is the only constant throughout history and that the importance of culture (specifically religion and arts), can not be overstated.<br />In the last few chapters Fromkin engages in what is becoming a favorite habit of historians - crystal ball gazing, looking to the future and speculating. It's a very tricky thing to do because history is only history when it's in the past. Anyway Fromkin sounds plausible when he says that the problems of the future will be in the areas of population and the environment. Overall he is rather optimistic about our prospects, - for the US specifically and for humanity in general. The 'Way of the World' is short, concise, easy to read and a useful survey of humanity.	2001-02-16
US	50452306	R11LA6O0OUPAVN	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	2	12	13	N	N	Forgot what I wanted to say about this forgetable book...	...nah, not really. Unlike Dr Claude Lucas -(Luke) to those who know him - I have not suffered CIA induced amnesia. What I have suffered is a serious case of disappointment with this Ken Follett book. Something's wrong. Even with previous novels where the plot was thin and the story fairly light ('Night over Water' for example) the one thing you could count on Ken for was historical accuracy and for getting his facts straight. The man is known for spending years on researching his books. This makes the many factual errors here that much more puzzling and annoying. Quite frankly they take you right out of your reverie, or 'world of suspended belief' and that's bad - It's the one thing a fiction writer most wants from his/her reader. I don't think I'm overstating the case, and like some of the reviewers below, I found myself stopped dead my reading tracks by some of the bloopers. Ford Fiesta in 1958, D.C Police called Washington Police, (repeatedly) and Apollo 11 in 1968!. If you have to make a mistake about the date of an Apollo launch, your best bet is not to choose the mission when man first landed on the moon! And lastly, does anyone believe that the CIA and FBI have such lax security systems?<br />I'll stop with the criticisms because these mistakes do not make the book unreadable. Follett is still good with a plot and the style he uses here -with chapter headings being countdown time to the launch of Explorer 1- provided a nice touch and increased the tension as we approached launch. Overall the premise is plausible, the tension is palpable and the plot sufficiently devious. It's just that it is a book that annoyed me more than entertained me, and I forget why.	2001-02-15
US	50452306	R2G8I8JA33N07C	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Clue for #13 across: 6 letters, A Puzzling thing, riddle	What do you go for first in the papers - sports? business? the news?. It's one or the other for most of us. Not so with Tom Jericho, he reads none of it, he only does the crosswords. <br />We are first introduced to this enigmatic fellow while he convalesces at Cambridge. Young, introspective, sensitive mathematically inclined and recuperating from a nervous breakdown. He's at his crosswords - is it simply a nervous trait, something to occupy the mind or is there a greater significance perhaps? A tool to keep the brain sharp? Jericho, we learn, is a brilliant cryptanalyst and  having broken the German cipher code 'Shark' used by U-Boats, has cracked under the strain. It was a huge success nevertheless, bringing about a 75% reduction in Allied losses at sea.<br />Now he's needed again. The Germans recovered quickly and realizing that the U-Boat code was compromised, they completely redid it, thus once again causing the messages flowing from the Enigma machines to be cryptic. It could not have come at a worse time. A massive convoy has set sail from America with 1 Million tonnes of cargo and thousands of soldiers on board.<br />That's the basis for this intriguing novel. Harris weaves a few sub plots into the mix. What is the significance of the messages about a massacre of thousands of Polish officers near Smolensk, and why was the section responsible for decyphering the messages so quickly shut down? What happened to Claire Romilly? This question is of particular interest to Jericho. Claire another crytanalyst at Bletchy Park, in addition to disappearing, had prior to that, abruptly ended an affair with him. He was puzzled and still in love with her. In addition to all of that Jericho had suspicions that there was a traitor at work inside Bletchy Park. Tom Jericho, smitten was now cryptanalyst and sleuth.<br />The resolution of these mysteries and what happened with the convoy as well as one final twist to the plot all takes place in the last chapter of the book. Ifound this sudden rush to resolution with all explanations coming out in one big push, a bit forced, and for me, was the only weakness in the book. The crossword puzzle completed too quickly.	2001-02-15
US	50452306	R2K9FDYPTOFJRV	0060175869	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Curmudgeonly critical of 20th Century culture	I am not calling Jacques Barzun a curmudgeon. Far from it. Much in this book shows the esprit with which he writes and he is apologetic about the fact that we will find some things in the book less than pleasing. &quot;I do not expect the reader to be steadily grateful. Nobody likes rooted opinions challenged...yet without exposure to this annoyance, one's understanding of our modern thought and virtues is incomplete&quot;. Nevertheless, Barzun's criticism of 20th century culture can't be called anything else but cantankerous. Maybe it's not surprising, afterall he has been writing about the 'Romantic Period' and it's flourishing culture for many years, and as a critic he has been bewailing the mediocrity in our arts and the lack of appreciation for culture in our schools. It does not matter anyway because I have nothing but respect for someone who can retain and recall, much less write about, so much cultural history AND do so at the age of 92. So, Mr Barzun, you can be in whatever mood you wish.<br />As it is, he has gone to a lot of trouble putting together a book that is accessible to readers. It's clearly set out. Barzun splits the Modern era into 4 Periods, each  centered on a 'revolution' of sorts, and each making up one part of the book. Part I is focused on the religious revolution of Luther and covers the period 1500-1660. Part II looks at the monarchy and runs from 1661-1789. Part III focuses on social and economic upheavals spanning the period 1790-1920 and finally, Part IV from 1921 onwards looks at a combination of all that went before. Although encyclopedic and large (800 pages) the book is not dry, dusty or daunting. It's organized for ease of reading. There are no footnotes. Barzun uses small arrows &lt; &gt; followed by page numbers to indicate where, either earlier or ahead in the book, the specific topic is discussed. Small caps highlight themes which are basically ideas that run through time (eg. EMANCIPATION, SECULARISM). Bracketed suggestionsare placed throughout to refer to other works [The book to read is...], and finally, in addition to the normal subject index there is also an 'Index of Persons'.<br />The Index of Persons is necessary because of the style used. Rather than have Chapters organized in a chronological date order, Barzun uses biographical narratives to tell the story.  We learn some interesting facts about great men and women - our cultural heroes - the creators and initiators of the significant ideas and events of the Era. On many pages you will find quotes which are there to give a sense of the &quot;voice of the person&quot;. Woven throughout the narratives are 'Cross Sections' focused on various cities (Madrid, Venice, London, Paris, New York) which provide a snapshot of culture at specific times in history. As if this were not enough, Barzun sweetens the enjoyment of the book by providing some 'Digressions on a Word' giving meaning, origin and alternate uses for some words. <br />Any criticisms? A few. As I said at the start, the book is very critical of 20th century culture. It's as if Barzun feels that nothing of much use has emerged from the century. Part IV begins at the point where he says we started our slippery slide downwards - the end of WWI. The 'Great War' snuffed out progress. &quot;The impetus born of the Renaissance was exhausted, and the new start made...just before 1914 had been cut short&quot;. Perhaps his view is colored by his generation and birthplace - France. Certainly France was devastated by the War and for a young man it may very well have seemed apocalyptic. Another criticism has to do with the last 'Cross Section' from New York. It supposedly is by a historian who writes about his prophetic vision of what human culture will be like in the year 2300. This 4 page section reminds me of another history book that tried and also failed, in it's attempt at a little crystal ball gazing - 'The Rise and Fall of Great Powers by Paul Kennedy, ironically starting in 1500 also. Prophetic History is not only an oxymoron, it simply does not work and is the only blemish on Barzun's otherwise splendid book.	2001-02-14
US	50452306	R399R3KCLY45G7	0671027972	63597638	Single & Single	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Single &amp; Single = Doubly predictable	Early in the novel we find Alfie Winser, lawyer and agent for British investment firm 'Single and Single' - alone, on a hillside in Turkey, realizing, with mounting horror and panic, &quot;a mess of sweat and piss and mud&quot; that he is about to be killed gangland style by Russian/Georgian hoods. We quickly move to a small town near Devon, England where Oliver Hawthorne lives quietly carrying on his trade as a children's magician. Things get complicated quickly. UK authorities want to know how five million Pounds suddenly appears in Oliver's daughter's trust fund. Oliver has no anawer - the depositor is an anonymous, mysterious stranger. Oliver's father disappears. With this fast start you may be forgiven for anticipating another typical convoluted and complicated Le Carre plot. That 'Single &amp; Single' is unable to maintain momentum and fades into a rather predictable plot, with a silly Hollywood-script-like action conclusion is disappointing. <br />Along the way though Le Carre employs his more familiar style - using flashbacks and multiple story lines to flesh out the characters and their history and to weave his story plot. Flashback some years earlier and we meet selfsame Oliver, but his surname is Single and he is working for his father in the British investment firm they own. The firm, and domineering, greedy and arrogant father - Tiger Single - deal with 'specialized' finance - assisting Moscow power broker Yevgeny Orlov launder money from his illegal arms trade. Oliver and Tiger are very reminiscent of Magnus and Rick Pym's father-son, love-hate, relationship from 'A Perfect Spy' but with a twist. Oliver and Zoya Orlov fall in love, get married and with Zoya's urging, Oliver turns informant and blows Tiger's and the firms cover, to Nat Brock from the UK task force investigating black market crime. We are back with Hawthorne now, Oliver angry, guilty, alone tries to start his life over as a new man in a small quiet town. We are also back to where we began - with events unfolding, Oliver with the assistance of Brock begins the search for Tiger. All paths lead to Alix Hoban, Orlov's main man.<br />It's in the straightening out of these paths and in following along to the journey's end, where the predictability and disappointment come in.	2001-02-14
US	50452306	R1WOJLG83ISDWX	0345420438	352579083	The Tailor of Panama	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A cut above the others	Both Le Carre and his central character - Harry Pendel, demonstrate that they are a cut above the others in their respective trades. Le Carre, just when we were beginning to fear that he had lost his touch, reshapes and retools the spy-thriller genre with this book - 'The Tailor of Panama'. It's not that this is his best book, it's just that it takes a totally different approach - satire - and has a lighter feel (at least initially) than his previous darker, sombre and moody novels. As for Harry Pendel, he's the tops in his field - No, not tailoring, definitely not spying, but... lying.<br />Harry a British expatriate Jewish tailor to the rich and famous in Panama City is also a daydreamer and schemer. But most of all he is someone who simply wants to please others. He tries &quot;to say the right things at all times, even if the right things were in one place and the truth was in another&quot;. Harry, we learn had an incredible talent for making things up. This, we all learned as children, will get you into trouble. It should not come as a surprise then to read that after creating an elaborate world of largely imaginary dangers and plots, with  hints of coming revolutions, and passing this on to the British through his handler -Andy Osnard, Harry gets into trouble. What kind and who else and how it plays out provides the surprising conclusion to the book. Suffice to say that the moral lesson in the children's story about crying &quot;Wolf, Wolf&quot; too often has a bearing here and Harry's tales become self fulfilling prophecies that pull in people far and wide with geopoltical repurcussions for Panama, Britain and the US.	2001-02-14
US	50452306	R1O1Y9WAEVUJG2	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Digging up the dirt	A fertile new plot of ground for Le Carre to work on - international big business and corporate ethics (or the lack thereof). The corporate world we venture into here is the international Pharmaceutical industry and it's related spin-off activities of aid to Third World nations and medical research. <br />Tessa Quayle a lawyer and much younger wife to a mid level British diplomat in Nairobi, Kenya is brutally murdered and the African doctor that was with her has disappeared. The investigation into her death by both local and British authorities is quick and nasty. Why was she travelling in her maiden name? what was the relationship between her and the doctor? Justin, her husband, suitably angered by the insinuations and the ineffective investigation and more importantly, armed with the knowledge that Tessa, ever the activist, was onto something - &quot;a great crime&quot; - takes up the cause and the case. <br />So far, So Le Carre. Pretty typical plot setting, with the flashbacks and multiple story lines, two of which seem to be going somewhere. The first, the supposed relationship with the African doctor is a dead end and then there is the love letter from Woodward, another British Diplomat. Woodward, an interesting character seems the type that would make a hidden Le Carre villain. But no, we quickly learn that Tessa had rebuffed the poor man, and any motive or malice is removed -another dead end. The main character we are then left with, unfortunately is Justin. It's unfortunate because he's just not very appealing. Sure, the great George Smiley was described like that but it was only his physical appearance, with Justin it's his character - wimpy. George was also brilliant and I have serious doubts about Justin's intelligence.<br />What makes me think Justin is a dim bulb? It's not revealing too much of the plot to tell you that the pharmaceutical company folk are the bad guys. Tessa knew it, we learn it fairly quickly and Justin figures it out. So, why, afterleaving Kenya does the turnip find himself back there, back there where... well, I'll leave the conclusion alone. <br />Corporate politics and the ethics of big business is certainly fertile soil for writer's in the spy-thriller genre, but Mr Le Carre has hit a very rocky patch of ground with this novel.	2001-02-14
US	50452306	R9W2WK09AJAQG	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	4	26	29	N	N	An explosive (literally) history of civilization	Explosive indeed. There's nothing else you can call a book that states that the origins of modern civilization can be traced to  a cataclysmic volcanic eruption in AD 535 on the Island of Java, Indonesia. More accurately - civilization began in the 100 year period that followed the explosion. According to the author the eruption &quot;blotted out much of the light and heat of the sun for 18 months and resulted, directly or indirectly, in climatic chaos, famine, migration, war and massive political change on virtually every continent&quot;. The mechanics worked something like this: blocked sunlight led to crop failures everywhere creating famines, which promted mass movement of people - migrations and invasions, which helped spread disease along with destruction. The conclusion was massive dislocation of economic, social and political structures throughout the world - plunging it into the Dark Ages. The following events are said to have some connection with the eruption: the Plague, the rise of Islam, the collapse of the Roman Empire, the demise of the great Mesoamerican cultures - Aztec, Maya , Nazca, the rise and fall of the Turkic kingdom and the Jewish empire of Khazaria and finally even the fate of England's legendary King Arthur. <br />With the mention of Arthur, you may be feel that you can now  peg the books' publishing category - 'fantasy' or 'historical novel'. Nope, it's straight science (not fiction) - Archaeology (Keys is the archaelogical journalist for 'The Independent' in the UK), Geology, Climatology and History. Certainly there is some serious research here (ice core sampling and tree ring analysis were extensively used) and many well respected experts in their fields provided input, but it is the author's historical analysis and his overall conclusion that in the end is on shaky ground. <br />A lot of the history is drawn from the Javanese 'Book Of Ancient Kings' which, if I dare put it into another context - is no different that the debates whichrage over the authenticity of Biblical events today. Quite simply, you either take a literal interpretation and believe what the book says or you take a more subjective view and see meanings and metaphors, some of which, through changes in time and culture, are not so easily interpreted and understood today. Keys compounds the problem. Unlike some biblical events, for which scientific evidence not only exists, but has been tested and proven, none of the theories in the book have yet been scientifically proven. <br />Keys does make a good case for a mammoth explosion on Java which split the Island, creating Sumatra and the intervening shallow Sunda Strait. Afterall this is the area where the later Tambora (1815) and Krakatoa (1886) explosions took place, both of which were stated as being much less powerful than the 535 explosion. The best aspects of the book are the descriptive archaeological explorations and the discussions on volcanoes and their power. Indeed the concluding section of the book will be of particular interest to those readers living in Wyoming. Science confirms it and the author says &quot;brooding an estimated 6 miles beneath the scenic wonderland of America's Yellowstone National Park is a vast liquid time-bomb the size (in volume terms) of Lake Michigan...Made of molten rock, this ultra-hot 1652 degree Fahrenheit subterranean reservoir of volcanic magma will almost certainly one day burst forth upon the world...&quot; Have a Nice day.	2001-02-13
US	50452306	R8QANL85KF2UG	0399146539	212960003	Flint (Grace Flint)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This is his first novel?	Many early novels, moreso a first attempt, are usually far from successful. Even great writers have early works that they would rather not be reminded of - Follett's 'Modigliani Scandal, Le Carre's 'Call For The Dead'. That makes this book - a spy thriller in the vein of Le Carre- that much more impressive. Police and money laundering rackets have replaced Le Carre's Spies and Cold War animosities. <br />Detectives Grace Flint and Paul Pendle are on an sting operation hoping to nab serial rapist Frank Harling and his lawyer Clayton Buller. Doesn't happen, What happens instead is Harling smells a rat. Pendle is shot dead and Grace is gunbutted and beaten and stomped to within an inch of her life - the book is violent - but not needlessly so. Buller, overweight and now overexerted from the beating he just administered, collapses behind the wheel of his car, dead from heart failure, Harling escapes. Grace convalesces slowly, physically she heals, mentally she remains seared, her shattered face mends. She is 'Amazing Grace' for her recuperative powers but moreso because of her determination to return to the Major Crimes Division.<br />What is truly amazing about the book is that as detailed and developed a character as Grace is, she's not really the main character. On a case which takes her to Miami, Grace eventually picks up Harlings trail - and disappears. It's time for the equally complex and detailed character - Harry Cohen to make his entry, and find Grace. Cohen is reminiscent of well known characters from this genre - he reminds me of George Smiley or Deighton's Harry Palmer - men who seemed like milk toast on the surface but underneath had some steel strengths. <br />Thoroughly enjoyable. Hurry, write another.	2001-02-10
US	50452306	R2A57QYMB0RJVO	0671042785	158451152	The Little Drummer Girl	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Can a fallen woman sink?	This is a question Charlie writes to a friend, asking about herself. To find the answer you can't go straight at it, you have to take a roundabout route, look at it from all angles, explore various depths and peel away the layers of complexity. It's a Le Carre novel afterall! At the time of asking the question, Charlie was falling in love with Joseph, so maybe that is what she meant. There's another possibility. Although she didn't know it, she was about to fall into a world far removed from her cavorting, drink laced, sun drenched days with her actor friends on Mykonos. A world of international terror - pitting the Isrealis and Palestinians against each other. A world of intrigue, suspicion, passion and violence and a world where - having sunk into it - her acting skills would save her and her love for another would prevent her from drowning. <br />Le Carre, we all know, knows how to create compelling characters, and here is  one of his most complex and well developed characters. Wealthy family, private school education, middle-class English. Rebellious, promiscuous and radical - perhaps in response to her upbringing or just to be fashionable. Not someone we like at first, but as time goes on we see her as caring, funny, and someone who just wants to please others. We start to understand her a liitle. She becomes a convincing, effective and ultimately deadly double agent for the Israelis, yet remains sympathetic and affectionate towards her Palestinian friends. We get to see yet another side to Charlie - a little girl lost, in over her head and having to resort to whatever means she can to save herself from going under, someone in a mess and we feel terribly sorry for her. A 'tour de force' in the exploration of human emotions, and not just Charlies - but our own also.	2001-02-09
US	50452306	R7ZVVEB13PGBZ	0874774241	314200259	The New Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain	Books	5	20	20	N	N	There IS an artist in you, it's time to meet!	It sounds silly but it really is like meeting a new you. I don't know about other users of the book but for me the experience of it was almost therapeutic. My view of myself as an artist - forget artist!, I just wanted to be able to draw - was limited to very basic, crude representations. Stuff I would only show to my pets. The more I tried the more I convinced myself that I couldn't draw. Not so. I was just thinking, analysing and working, not seeing and perceiving. The solution is really that simple yet that far reaching.<br />The book goes on to explain the principles at work - Left side/right side hemispheres of the brain, perception, lighting and shadows and negative space to name a few. It's heavily illustrated (naturally) and easy to read. There are plenty of exercises and dozens of uses for your new skills, it's just left for all of us to take the time to meet somebody new.	2001-02-08
US	50452306	R2TOMZSKWHYPQN	0586054480	256816201	Goodbye Mickey Mouse	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The love of flying, the lovers of flyers	The book starts and ends in the same place - an abandoned and overgrown WWII fighter base in England in 1982. A group of American ex-servicemen are visiting their former base where 40 years ago they flew their Mustangs, fought the enemy, made friends, found themselves, and for our two central characters, fell in love.<br />The story centers on two Mustang pilots, Jamie Farebrother and Mickey Morse - nicknamed Mickey Mouse as in the quote &quot;Goodbye Mickey Mouse&quot;, said by whom and in what context provides the poignant and emotionally powerful conclusion to the book. There are also two British women - the somewhat sheltered but nevertheless self assured Victoria Cooper who falls in love with Jamie and the married Vera Hardcastle who goes for Mickey. They are not in the book simply as the loves of the pilots, they are well developed characters and central to the plot of the story. <br />Besides developing the romance between these couples, other relationships Deighton explores are those between father and son, parent and child, military professionalism and discipline and human compassion and caring. It's all subtle though and does not in any way make this a weighty book. It's a good, fun, easy, straightforward read with the best examples of Deightons writing prowess in the detailed descriptions of the aerial battles. The visual pictures created by his words are so strong you'll be convinced he is writing from personal experience (you'll be wrong). Make that your only mistake and do not pass on this Deighton classic.	2001-02-08
US	50452306	R47ARQPEM01WB	0345318099	95894127	SS-GB	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Churchill dead, the King in Prison and Germans in London	That's the setting for this novel. It's 1941 and Germany is victorious, at least in Western Europe. The US and Germany are not at War. Deighton mentions one of the characters in the book, Barbara Barga, a US journalist (and later the love interest of the main character) having come over to the UK on the inaugural London to New York Lufthansa flight. A flight he slyly mentions Himmler and Goring were on. What business these German power brokers had in the States and who they were meeting the author does not say, nor is it in the least bit important to the story's plot. It's just a neat way of providing information in passing, and to me, shows how attentive to detail and how much fun Deighton has with this 'alternative history' or 'What if' novel.  <br />The story centers on Detective Superintendent Douglas Archer of Scotland Yard and his Sargeant, the elderly Harry Woods who make up the 'Yards murder team, and who are called in by their German superiors to investigate what looks like a simple murder case involving a blackmarketeer. The case quickly develops into something with a wider scope. The SS in Berlin shows interest and sends a senior officer, Standartenfuhrer Huth to supervise Archer. The underground movement, politicians, the German police, the SS, a small resort town in southern England, the King and finally US Marines all have a role to play in the unravelling of the plot.<br />Ambition, greed, love, jealousy, and political plotting are all motives that drive the characters along. The characters are not stereotypical. Huth, far from being evil SS is one of the more principled, sympathetic and even likable characters in the book.<br />The only complaint I have is the rather rapid tying up of loose ends in the last few pages, it feels forced. Also, Archer having proven how smart a detective he was throughout the book, suddenly seems rather naive and daft even, as Huth has to explain all the political machinations and subtleties of the plot to him.	2001-02-07
US	50452306	R1ZLZ4Y1E4CH3W	0684839296	659815894	The Serpent and the Rainbow: A Harvard Scientist's Astonishing Journey into the Secret Societies of Haitian Voodoo, Zombis, and Magic	Books	5	6	8	N	N	To the 'frontier of death'	Wade Davis, anthropologist (Harvard 1977), was working as a graduate assistant for his mentor Professor Richard Schultes in 1982, when his life took a turn for the bizarre. At the recommendation of Schultes he met with two equally esteemed academic gentlemen - Dr Nathan Kline and Professor Heinz Lehman, former heads of departments in psychiatry and psychopharmacology (study of the action of drugs on the mind). They had a proposal for him. &quot;Let me relieve you of any further suspense, Mr Davis. We understand from Professor Schultes that you are attracted to unusual places. We propose to send you to the frontier of death. If what we are about to tell you is true, as we believe it is, it means that there are men and women dwelling in the conscious present, where the past is dead and the future consists of fear and impossible desires&quot;. How's that for an icebreaker! The frontier of death was in Haiti, in the underground world of Voodoo, peopled with bodies without character or will; the living dead; Zombies! That Davis stuck around to hear them out shows that he was an adventurous explorer, that he agreed to go only shows that he had no idea of what he was getting into. What the Professors wanted Davis to investigate was the formula of the natural drug that was used to induce Zombification. The rationale was put this way &quot;If we could find a new drug which made the patient utterly insensible to pain and paralyzed and another which harmlessly returned him to normal consciousness it could revolutionize modern surgery&quot;.<br />Thus was born the 'Zombie Project', a serious, scientific, well funded exploration and study to find the chemical explanation underpinning the whole concept of Zombies, and the subject of this book. It also explores the culture, history and politics of Haiti and we learn about the science of poisons. In contrast to the movie of the same name, Davis in real life did not get powdered poison blown in his face, nor was he buried in a coffin. <br />A poison was found and a substance was identified that was capable of producing the state of suspended animation characteristic of Zombies, but more fundamental to his project was the fact that he never witnessed a Zombie being brought up from the grave. Startling by it's admission is this statement from Davis. &quot;I had, in fact, been offered two promising opportunities to do so, provided, of course, that the cash payment...be sufficient&quot;. He refused the opportunity, partly because if it turned out to be a fraud he would have wasted the money but also because of the following chilling reason. &quot;If, on the other hand, it turned out to be legitimate, I would have no way of being certain that the money had not been responsible for the victim's fate.&quot;  No statement goes further in showing the complete conversion of Davis from the deep skeptic he was when he first arrived in Haiti, to a confirmed believer in the power of Voodoo and it's importance to the culture. <br />Although the subject matter is almost beyond belief, this well written and balanced account handles the subject with ease. No doubt about it - a classic case of truth being stranger than fiction. The glossary of Voodoo terms at the back helps. Well worth a read.	2001-01-13
US	50452306	R127Z7K5ZLSNL9	1880588102	971133091	Warplanes of the Luftwaffe: A Complete Guide to the Combat Aircraft of Hitler's Luftwaffe from 1939 to 1945	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Black crossed planes, star crossed designs	I'm no expert but I am familiar with most of the Luftwaffe planes and I can't seem to think of one that's not represented here. Represented is rather a weak term for what this book provides. 250 pages, most of them with at least two or three illustrations of the various types. Photographs, a few of them in color, color drawings including quite a few 'three views' (front-on, top down and profile) of the more important types. There are also about two dozen 'cut-away' diagrams showing the structural and internal components of the planes. <br />That's just the visual treats the book provides. The written descriptions give the required information - powerplant, dimensions, performance, armament, etc. Where there were prototypes, modifications and variants, details are also given. Of interest to me, and highlighted by the book, is the fact that much of the history of the Luftwaffe is also a story about designs and designers. Experimental designs were almost a rule rather than the exception. The great designers like Willy Messerschmitt, Ernest Heinkel and Claudius Dornier live on through their wonderful planes, even the great 'what might have beens' (Me 262, He 162, Arado 'Blitz' and my personal favorite, the revolutionary Do 335). All are beautifully depicted for us here.	2001-01-10
US	50452306	RBPAB8D1FO0IM	1564582957	588293746	Birds of the World (DK Handbooks)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fine feathered friends	Birds are beautiful and the world of birds is fascinating. It's only fitting then that this is an Eyewitness Book, because that series of books is well known for beautiful illustrations and fascinating, innovative and educational presentations on the various topics that they publish. This book uses annotated photographs rather than drawings and it's size (like an oversized novel) allows between two to three birds per page, making the photos large enough for easy identification. The descriptions that accompany each bird speak to behavior, habitat, what it's nest looks like and sometimes a general remark on some unusual or an interesting trait. The geographic distribution of the bird is also shown by way of a small map. A reviewer below is right. The use of an illustration showing the size of the bird in relation to the book is brilliant! I can't think of a better way of getting a feel for the size of something you've never seen, than comparing it with something that you are holding in your hand. <br />The only quibble with the book is the method of organising the birds. The book is divided into Passerines and Non Passerines which doesn't mean much and doesn't help either, since both of those groups include a wide variety of bird types. Picture this: a bird catches your eye, &quot;Hey that's an owl, I wonder what kind?&quot; You can spend a bit of time going through the 3 step identification key before you find the owls. To be fair though, that really only means that this is not a field guide. It can't be, it's 'Birds of The World' afterall. Enjoy it for what it is - A beautifully illustrated, educational, introduction to the wonderful world of birds.	2001-01-08
US	50452306	R256XBJM1RK0LK	0881335290	940763546	The Unheavenly City Revisited	Books	3	24	30	N	N	Live in a US city? then welcome to Hell	Hell? Yes, that is the general impression of urban America that you are left with after reading 'The Unheavenly City Revisited'. There are a couple of reasons for this. The original book 'The Unheavenly City' was first published in 1970 and then 'Revisited' in 1974. In many ways urban America is quite different today than it was then. It is no coincidence that an entire chapter is devoted to riots. Watts in 1965 and Detroit in 1967 were still very much a topic of discussion by urban planners. The main reason though for the impression of an urban hell is because that's exactly what the author believed we were creating. The main purpose of this book was to challenge and refute traditional approaches to urban planning. One of Banfields main contentions was that &quot;we do not know and can never know what the real nature of the problem is, let alone what might work to alleviate or solve it&quot;. He wanted to make urban planning more multidisciplinary, bring in new approaches and ideas and broaden the debate.<br />He broadened the debate all right. There was such a storm of controversy that surrounded 'The Unheavenly City' that the author had to take the unusual step of publishing the 'Revisited' version only four years later largely to provide clarity and explain some of the more contentious points that he raised. For instance, the chapter entitled 'The Imperatives of Class' generated a lot of heat. Banfield was accused of saying that the lower class was synonymous with African Americans and the poor. He didn't say that. It didn't matter though because by bringing it up and dancing around it for an entire chapter he left himself open to critics who said 'Well it's what you meant even if you didn't say it.<br />Not all the criticism was related to his arguments and certainly not all of it was fair. It is clear that a lot of the criticism has to do with the fact that the book was written by someone who was not an urban planner. Banfield is a social scientist and his book reads like a philosophy of city life or urban psychology.  The professionals did not like this approach, moreso because Banfield was critical of their motives &quot;the reformer wants to improve the situation of the poor, the black, the slum dweller, and so on, not so much to make them better off materially as to to make himself and the whole society better off morally&quot;.<br />The book is recommended because of it's historical significance and because it gives an interesting perspective on the debate about urban policy thirty years ago. Be prepared to reread some sections though because the author does ramble and remember it was a text book so the writing style is dry.	2001-01-08
US	50452306	R22569CE0UMTDR	0844659681	759315767	From Versailles to Wall Street, 1919-1929	Books	3	0	0	N	N	From WWI to Worldwide Depression	This is the second book in a series of economic texts entitled 'The Pelican History of World Economy in the 20th Century' The series starts with 'The First World War, 1914-1918' and finishes with 'Prosperity and Upheavel: the World Economy, 1945-1980' The period covered by this book and it's title - 'From Versailles to Wall Street, 1919-1929' might lead you to believe that this is an insignificant period and that the book would be the least interesting of the series. Not so. It is full of interesting economic tidbits. <br />The cost of WWI was astronomical - $260 Billion (in 1987 dollars I would guess since that's the date of the book). Only a small percent of this was financed by taxation and other revenues. The majority of wartime expenses were paid for by borrowing. (As an aside, this practice is as old as war itself. Barbara Tuchman writes in her book 'Distant Mirror' this was how wars were financed in the 14th century. It's also true then, for WWI and today that the financing of war can do almost as much damage as war itself). Anyway, the deficit financing of WWI didn't have to be inflationary, if it was derived from savings. It wasn't, it was financed largely by bank credit and was it ever inflationary! Price increases experienced throughout Europe in the years following WWI were unbelievable. The experience of Hyperinflation was made worse by the fact that people had no experience of even normal inflation for many decades. In the space of a few years prices had risen 14,000 times in Austria. They were lucky. In Germany prices rose 1 million million (no typo) times when compared to pre-war. <br />Against this background the boom of the 'Roaring Twenties' in the US was a welcome relief. One of the biggest factors driving it (pun intended) was an innovation called the motor car. It stimulated other industries such as steel, glass, rubber, petroleum and metal fabricating. Highways stretched out over the US giving the construction sector a big boost.  Unfortunately all this was only a short lived positive blip in a very unstable and creaking world economic system. The book clearly shows that the origins of the worldwide depression of 1929-32 began right here in the US. The world economic system was vulnerable and weak and was administered two shocks by the US. The first was the drastic cut in foreign lending. Most countries could have withstood this setback but it was quickly followed by the petering out of the boom. Things took a turn for the worse domestically in the summer of 1929. Investment opportunities dried up and there was a severe cutback in consumer spending and a decline in business confidence. Confidence evaporated following the Stock Market crash of October and we were on the way down. <br />It's interesting history and interesting reading. It serves as a reminder of the responsibility that comes with ownership of the worlds largest economy. It speaks to the power of this economy to generate growth worldwide if properly managed  but also to set in motion a downward spiral if we are careless.	2001-01-08
US	50452306	R352EEE7HP9YSQ	0792274512	426421212	National Geographic Field Guide to the Birds of North America : Revised and Updated	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Birders Bible	Just like that holy book, you will find this excellent book by National Geographic is constantly referred to. As you would expect from any field guide, it is beautifully illustrated. That's usually not enough though to help you positively identify some species, regardless of whether you are an expert or casual birder. The field notes associated with each birds' illustration come in very handy. They give vital clues about behavior, habitat or some other factor that can help clinch the identification. Small maps showing breeding, year round and winter ranges are well placed on each page and are there to provide quick geographic checks. Helps avoid situations like this: &quot;I just saw a Louisiana Waterthrush. Oh wait, I'm in South Florida, can't be then, it must have been a Northern.&quot; <br />The only other way I can endorse this book is to say that I have quite a few other guides and reference books and when going out birding with my family and I say &quot;bring the field guides&quot; this is usually the first one grabbed.	2001-01-08
US	50452306	R84YKCVMHSWZ8	0316432385	906077707	The Rise and Fall of the Luftwaffe: The Life of Field Marshall Erhard Milch	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Iron men, steel planes, straw house	Irving met Erhard Milch in Dusseldorf in the late 1960's, and admits that he was intrigued by the life of this old man who was once Gorings Deputy, the second most powerful man in the German Air Ministry, the chief architect and mobiliser of the Luftwaffe, a Field Marshal and the man Hitler said knew more about aviation than any other in Germany.<br />It is obvious that Irving respected and liked Milch (you don't spend four years researching someone's life if you don't respect them and I doubt you can spend four years with someone without ending up liking them) The feeling was mutual as Milch gave all his diaries and notebooks to Irving. It is natural then to expect this book to be the most authoritative, well researched and detailed account of Milch's life. That it is. It is also one of the best histories of the Luftwaffe. The book tells the story of the Luftwaffe from the earliest days with the formation of the Air Ministry in 1933 through to its eventual defeat. Defeat was not by way of battle or any specific incident but was indicated by the Luftwaffe's impotence and total inability to stop the massive allied bombing raids on the Reich beginning in late 1943.<br />Wheras the story of the Luftwaffe is about Milch and Goring it's also about others such as Ernst Udet and aircraft designers such as Willy Messerschmitt and Ernest Heinkel. It's about the successful planes Messerschmitt Bf109, Focke Wulf 190, Junkers 87 (Stuka) and the abject failures such as the Me 210 and He 177. There is discussion of those great 'might have beens' such as the Dornier 355 (front and rear, push-pull design) and perhaps the greatest example of a design that was too little, too late - the Me 262 jet fighter. Armaments, radar, production quotas, innovations and secret projects are all mentioned. So is the politics and infighting (such as the dislike that Milch and Messerschmitt had for each other) and the inefficiencies, bureaucracy and meddling that characterised the Air Ministry. If you have an interest in the Luftwaffe then this is a good item to add to your collection, but be warned, the writing style is very dry and I found it hard to read through.you have an interest in the Luftwaffe then this is a good item to add to your collection, but be warned, the writing style is very dry and I found it hard to read through.	2001-01-07
US	50452306	R25VY81NQWGF20	0553262750	267120493	A History of the Luftwaffe	Books	2	5	7	N	N	His story. NOT History of the Luftwaffe	Killen writes in a florid, flashy and very visually descriptive style. It makes the book a very easy and light read. No problem there because History books should not be dense and reserved for scholars only. It is a problem though when the style is the substance and the historical facts are of secondary importance. Then you have a story, not history. That's what we have here.<br />A couple of broad generalisations and sweeping statements that the author makes are mentioned here. In Chapter 6 'Air Force in Embryo' the author makes reference to German pilots &quot;working with Mussolini's Regia Aeronautica in July 1933, developing the new theory of Blitzkrieg&quot;. Widespread use of the term 'Blitzkrieg' only came into effect following the German invasion of Poland in 1939. The word itself has been attributed to three different sources - Hitler, a British tank expert and Time Magazine. Whichever is correctly credited for coining the word makes no difference here; the point is this - the earliest possible use of the word is 1936, it can't be applied to the battlefield exercises that the Germans and Italians were practicing in 1933. Lightning war as a theory was also not new. The Prussian army had been practicing and developing upon the concept for a long time. <br />The author is no longer making generalisations when discussing the development of the Me 262 in Chapter 21, he's now making errors.  In describing the reasons for the delay in production of this fighter jet, Killen gets his facts wrong. He states that Milch and Goring were indifferent and that &quot;in an effort to arouse official interest, Professor Messerschmitt invited Adolf Galland to flight test an Me 262.&quot; The historical record shows that far from being indifferent Milch, from as early as January 1943 had requested an Air Ministry officer to put pressure on Messerschmitt to complete the Me 262. The Ministry subsequently accorded priority to the completion of a small number of prototypes. Further, it was Milch who requested that Galland do the flight test and it was Milch whom Galland excitedly telephoned with his now famous assessment, that it flew &quot;as though an angel's pushing'. There was a meeting on June 27th, 1943 to which Hitler had summoned the top seven aircraft designers. Messerschmitt was there naturally and the record shows that far from promoting his jet, he actually warned Hitler against the folly of mass producing the Me 262. The reason - it's fuel consumption was higher than piston engined aircraft. Messerschmitt was well aware, but chose not to mention, the fact that the jet used a lower grade fuel than aviation spirit and that it was readily available. What strange behaviour from someone who would be credited with designing the world's first operational jet! One of the reasons behind it had to do with the personal animosity between Milch and Messerschmitt.<br />The bottom line with this book is that to do justice to to the whole story of the Luftwaffe, more discussion on some of the background issues and the personalities, policies and politics involved is necessary. By trying to describe every event of significance in the life of the Luftwaffe - in 300 pages - we are left with a story very light on historical facts.	2001-01-07
US	50452306	R39GIPYEAZGHMT	0671865412	543869927	Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant	Books	3	77	90	N	N	Raiders of the lost Ark?	&quot;Hey, Indy I've found something&quot;, Oh, wait, that's a line from the movie 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' isn't it? and 'The Sign &amp; the Seal' is a serious historical, archaelogical account of the search for, and supposed discovery of the biblical Ark of the Covenant. Yes, one is fantasy and the other non-fiction, although after reading some parts of the book, don't be surprised if you find yourself flipping to the backcover to check on the publishing category. For your reference it's 'history/religion/archaeology' <br />That the book reads like a great adventure novel makes it enjoyable. That it purports to have solved the mystery of not only what happened to the Ark, but also that Hancock says that he knows where it is, makes this a book that deserves serious attention. The author spent considerable time researching this subject and his quest took him to Jerusalem, Egypt, the Chartres Cathedral in France and finally Ethiopia. He read widely and interviewed many  people and discusses a wide variety of topics. The Kebra Nagast (the ancient Ethiopian history of the Queen of Sheba), the Templars, the Holy Grail, the biblical story of Solomon and the Babylonian Exile of the Jews all have some bearing on the wherabouts of the Ark. Hancock weaves it all together with style. <br />Research, genuine interest, enthusiasm and writing style however are insufficient in overcoming the critical flaw of the book. Unlike a movie which can end however it chooses, an investigative history book must prove it's thesis. Hancock neatly dodges producing proof by telling us that the guardian of the Ark won't let anyone see it. In recalling the conversation Hancock remembers saying 'this is a great disappointment for me', to which the guardian philosophically replied 'there are worse things in life than disappointment', to which I say, there are many movies that could use good endings like this but a history book should not be allowed to get away with it.	2001-01-03
US	50452306	R1KJWQK0VNAWYC	0671886746	72199968	WORLD ATLAS OF WINE, 4TH EDITION	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Geography of Viticulture	This is a fantastic book. It is more than simply THE best wine reference guide. It is history, geography, an encyclopedia, an atlas - a work of art. Believe it or not, it was also a college text book. I was lucky enough to have attended a class, 'the Geography of Viticulture', where it was the main text, (wine tasting included with the tuition fee!)<br />No matter what your level of interest in the subject you will find something of value here. Naturally as geography students we were learning about the various wine producing areas around the world and how location, climate, soil, and seasons influence wine growing. Now many years later, as a consumer of the product, the book is just as useful to me in teaching about the importance of grape varieties and how to taste, choose and serve wine. <br />A big thrill for me was driving through one of the wine producing regions highlighted in the atlas. Although I would not recommend you use the maps to plan your route, unless you don't mind getting just a little bit lost driving around beautiful and idyllic countryside (typical of most wine producing areas); the book is still of immense use in teaching about the area you are driving through. A nice touch are the many picture reproductions of the various winery labels. My family enjoyed ticking off the labels in the book as we drove by the wineries. Two more uses for the atlas - travel guide and family entertainment. Cheers	2001-01-03
US	50452306	RAE10F7NAAZR3	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The history of knowledge	This is a hard book to write a synopsis of. It encompasses so much it's hard to say what it's about exactly. It is however very easy to recommend this book. The book leaves you in awe. Awe at man the discover (whom the author states is his hero). This is an uplifting history, man here is creative, brave, inspired and we see the story of ourselves as one of accomplishments and of achieving great things in arts, humanities, the social and physical sciences. The book literally covers the alphabet of knowledge from Astronomy to Zoology. It is the breadth of knowledge the book contains that leaves you in awe of Boorstin. How can one human being know so much?. Almost every second sentence reveals some nugget of knowledge, much of it new to me, even in subjects I thought myself familiar with.<br />A unique aspect of the book that I enjoyed was the frequent interjections of word origins. While discussing a subject, if a particular word came up, Boorstin might stop and take a sentence or two two give the reader a brief history of the Latin or Greek origin of the word. Nice touch. Overall this is an immensely researched and lovingly crafted book. It is an enriching reading experience.	2000-12-31
US	50452306	R2LFE4R2EG0T6A	0805017305	820817223	Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee: An Indian History of the American West	Books	5	230	235	N	N	Wounded knee, broken heart, shattered nation	Be prepared to be affected by this book. I guarantee that you can not read it without being emotionally touched and moved by this account of the loss of a beautiful land, the demise of a conscientious and spiritual way of life and finally the extirpation of a nation of people; or at least their ceasing to exist as free, independent, proud and noble individuals.<br />The  book had a profound impact on readers when it was first published in 1971 for a couple of reasons. Firstly, it took a unique perspective. Reports of Treaty meetings, tribal histories, Congressional findings and interview transcripts have all been distilled to provide the Indian point of view. Indeed the books' subtitle is 'An Indian History of the American West'.  The second factor has to do with when the book was published. Interest in environmental issues was growing and the accounts of the destruction by the settlers of the Eastern forests, the soiling of the rivers and the slaughter of the Buffalo herds struck a chord, especially when contrasted with the practices of the Indians. Readers began to see Indians in a different light, as the first conservationists.<br />The period of history covered is short. From about 1860 to 1890. The first chapter briefly sketches the interactions between Eupopean and Indians from the formers' arrival in Massachusetts in 1620 up to the setting up of the 'permanent indian frontier' west of the Mississippi in 1847.<br />The 'frontier' lasted no time at all. Gold was discovered, land was sought and settlers flocked west. To cover this in legitimacy it was necessary to invent 'Manifest Destiny'. The Indians were now doomed as history has shown that this policy made it manifest that the Indians were destined to be swept aside by the white man. All that we have left is their legends, their magical placenames and some works like this book that provides insights into how the West was really lost.	2000-12-29
US	50452306	RDF8QNNTVEGAU	0061008036	6837061	Blitzkrieg: From the Rise of Hitler to the Fall of Dunkirk	Books	5	20	20	N	N	May 1940. WWII is Over, Germany Victorious	This is a well researched, heavily illustrated and easy to read book on the subject of Blitzkrieg or 'Lightning War'. The specific area of interest is it's application by the Germans in their invasion of Holland, Belgium and France in the summer of 1940. The meat of the book is in the middle. Part 3 (Blitzkrieg: Weapons &amp; Methods) looks at the development of the Blitzkrieg concept, originating, Deighton says with Prussian military doctrines. Ideas by English Tank experts such as J.F.C. Fuller and B.H. Liddel Hart were added later. This section of the book naturally spends a fair amount of time on the emergence of the Tank and it's use as one of the principal weapons of Blitzkrieg.  <br />Blitzkrieg is defined as 'a swift, sudden military offensive, usually by combined air and land forces'. Deighton adds - 'and as evolved by Heinz Guderian and used by his forces', giving credit to the man who perfected the concept. Indeed, the German breakthrough at Sedan in May 1940 (see Part 4 'The Battle of The Meuse') and the subsequent routing of the French army is a spectacular example of the use of Blitzkrieg. Offcourse any discussion about battles in France in 1940 must conclude with the Germans surrounding and trapping over 250,000 men of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) on the French coast near Dunkerque. <br />It is to do with Dunkerque that the most startling supposition emerges from the book. The introduction was written by Gen. Walther Nehring, who in 1940 was Guderians' Chief of Staff and was with him at Sedan. Nehring writes with conviction, and Deighton's arguments seem to support the view, that if not for a precipitous Halt Order by Hitler, the German forces could have captured the entire BEF. It is argued that the prospect of a 'Disaster at Dunkerque', rather than the miracle that we have come to know of, would have been too much for the British to stomach. The opportunity for sueing for peace and of obtaining an end to the war by May 1940, would have beena real possibility in such circumstances.	2000-12-23
US	50452306	RJXA3OICXSRKI	0785811141	892026872	Blood, Tears and Folly: An Objective Look at World War II	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent one volume WWII  encyclopedia	This book is basically a one volume encyclopedia on the early part of WWII (up to 1942), inclusive of numerous illustrations, maps, tables and 17 pages of photographs. Added to that is the fact that Deighton is as good a history writer as he is a novelist. In contrast to his earlier WWII books - 'Fighter' and 'Blitzkrieg' which focused on specific battles, this book looks at the war in it's entirety. We see the war on land, at sea and in the air; in France, the Mediterranean, Russia and the Far East. The principal German, French, English, Italian, Russian, Japanese and American weapons, commanders and leaders are all dealt with to some extent.<br />A trend that Deighton continues from his earlier works is the relish with which he explodes various commonly held myths about WWII. His interest in how science and technology influenced the war is apparent, and this is another topic that is looked at frequently throughout the book. The numerous references to German technological prowess might make you think he has a bias, but the truth is that the Germans were the early leaders in optics, ship and gun laying radar, coding mechanisms and magnetic mines. Even at the end, their supremacy in aeronautics remained; specifically aircraft armament, jet propulsion, advanced aerodynamics and rocketry and guided missiles. Innovations included pressurized cabins, ejection seats and rocket assisted take off.<br />There are many intriguing insights to come out of this book. One that was almost beyond belief was the degree of scheming that took place in the corridors of Whitehall immediately after Churchill came to power. The description of the 'peace feeler' initiatives put out by Lord Halifax to Germany through the Swedes is  Machiavellian in it's scope. It indicates there was a willingness to flout the authority of Churchill and that far from being resolute in the defense of the realm, many of the country's leaders were looking ahead and positioning for their place in a defeated Britain.tain.	2000-12-22
US	50452306	R20JFZDC2KIEAE	0345385764	595177711	The Night Manager	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The Night Manager stalks the 'Heart of Darkness'	This book is a departure from the usual espionage intrigue typical of Le Carre - there is no Cold War, East West undertones. This is a straight fight between good versus evil. Evil here is represented by the drug dealing arms trader Richard Onslow Roper. Good would be Jonathan Pine, the English night manager of a Zurich Hotel.  But here it gets deliberately fuzzy and we have the shifting moral sands that make these characters come alive. Good could also include Roper for after all he is an Englishman and at face value would be included in what Pine calls 'Us'. &quot;Us being Englishmen of self evident loyalty and discretion. Us being the Good Chaps&quot; That's only at face value though, for Roper is evil and Pine volunteers to get evidence to bring him to Justice. It is in this pusuit that the moral sands shift again for Pine shows that he is himself quite capable of brutality and his vengeful unleashing of his malevolence on Ropers' forces hints at the darkness in him.<br />This book and two other earlier novels ('A Perfect Spy' and 'The Honourable Schoolboy') where the titles so perfectly describe and define the central characters would make a nice trilogy of Le Carre's art of character development.	2000-12-21
US	50452306	R1ZZF7UEKCJZCZ	0671042750	25579300	A Perfect Spy	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Poor old soul, Magnus Pym	Magnus Pym could become a synonym for what a person becomes when controlled and manipulated from childhood and taught in a system of rigid structures, high expectations, and  with a false sense of one's place in the world. <br />Le Carre is brilliant in setting a scene, and we very early on see Magnus Pym, senior officer at the British Embassy in Vienna, loving husband, good father, charming, witty, friendly - Perfect, on the run, from his job, friends, family all that is familiar. How can this be!. He was after all &quot;a representative of something. His stride was agile, his body forward sloping in the best tradition of the Anglo-Saxon administrative class. In the same attitude ...Englishmen have hoisted flags over distant colonies, discovered the sources of great rivers, stood on the decks on sinking ships&quot;. The 'Perfect Englishman'. <br />He is also the 'Perfect Spy' and a perfect mystery to those who thought they knew him best. To understand Pym we have to revisit his childhood, growing up under the influence of a con artist, manipulative and domineering but nevertheless charming and 'oh so fun' father. His molding in the 'best' tradition of middle class English boarding school education and finally how he came to be under the control of his two 'masters'	2000-12-21
US	50452306	R1K3UAG1VA80PL	0671042742	364376928	The Honourable Schoolboy	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Schoolboy, Smiley, Drake &amp; Nelson Ko - What Characters!	The story begins in mid 1974 with the pullout of intelligence operatives from Hong Kong, for fear of the how much was compromised, following the uncovering of Bill Haydon as a Russian 'mole' at the highest levels of British Intelligence in London. <br />If that sounds like it has the makings for an involved and intricate espionage thriller then that's only part of the story. It's not the plots or the politics that are the gems in Le Carre novels - it's the characters. Character development is his forte'. No character is as well developed or more complex than the awkward and unlikely superspy George Smiley.  On the other hand no character is as simple to get a grip on as the central character - Jerry Westerby, whose case name - &quot;The Honourable Schoolboy&quot; defines and contains him perfectly. <br />Smiley as head of the Service sends Westerby east to Hong Kong following the trail left by Haydon. The target - two Chinese brothers supposedly in the employ of his arch nemesis 'Karla'. Along the way Le Carre lets us peek at ex-colonial life in East Asia and he misses no opportunity to tweak the nose of the serious British Civil Service.	2000-12-20
US	50452306	ROSY40XSW078Y	0061008028	79792688	Fighter: The True Story of the Battle of Britain	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The last  'romantic'  war	What images come to mind when you think about the Battle of Britain? Maybe you can recall seeing the widely published photographs that are referred to in the book - 'pilots petting their dogs, playing cards or relaxing in deck chairs on neatly trimmed grass' or demonstrating with their hands how they shot down another plane from behind, (like school boys - you can almost hear them going 'ratta tatta tat', firing their imaginary guns). This image, of a great adventure in a romantic era is strengthend when you read about the exploits of the British 'aces' or the German 'experten' and when you realize that there were German pilots that were honourable and brave enough to return to base with unused bombs because they couldn't find a military target to drop them on. How poignant is the following description from the book about the loss of one of these pilots. 'He parachuted down into the wintry waters of the Channel while his men circled, unable to save him' &quot;It was as if a curtain went down and the play ended&quot;' said one of the watching pilots. The events that took place in the blue skies over southern England in the summer of 1940 were indeed, as Deighton says, the last romantic war.<br />The author however makes  it very clear from the start that a lot of what comes to mind when we think about the Battle of Britain is a very deliberate effort to create a 'David versus Goliath' myth. For example, Churchill relied on rhetoric to reinforce in the minds of the British public, the great victory that had been achieved. He also had the US in mind when he spoke, because he knew that people there had now started to believe that with help, Britain might make it. It shouldn't be a surprise to realize that the day of the largest air battle over central London (September 15th) which was therefore witnessed by the most people, quickly became the day celebrated as Battle of Britain day. It shouldn't be a surprise either to learn that this was the day of the largest RAF combat victory claim - 185 German planes shot down! The postwar figure was revised downward to a truer total, 56. Britain was as adept as Germany in using war time propaganda. <br />Political infighting and backstabbing was as common as the air battles and almost as deadly. Politicians, Military men and civilians, both German and British, all had axes to grind. Ernhard Milch, Gorings Deputy hated Willy Messerschmitt and tried to ruin him. Messerschmitt in turn had no use for another aircraft designer - Ernest Heinkel. Churchill didn't care much for his Air Chief Marshal Hugh Dowding. Perhaps the bitterest rivalry is the one pitting Trafford Leigh-Mallory (a deputy of Dowding) and Squadron Leader Douglas Bader (the legless ace) against Dowding and another of his deputies Keith Park. The outcome of this battle was embarassment and humilitiation, loss of jobs and ruined careers for Dowding and Park. Treatment from their own worse than anything the enemy did.<br />Offcourse the book is about more than myths and the historical persons involved, it is principally about the planes and more specifically the Hurricane, Spitfire and Messerscmitt Bf109. The development of the airframes, engines, armament and supporting technologies such as radar are all interestingly laid out in detail. Deighton also has creatively split the air battles into four phases each with a different tactic being employed  by the Germans or different strategic objectives in mind. This is helpful as it leads to a question asked in the book - What was the German plan for the Battle of Britain? It is difficult to answer this looking at the changing tactics, goals and targets. The answer may lie with the perspective you take. Indeed this brings up the most startling revelation in the whole book. Germany and Germans, even 'til today, do not recognise any event called the Battle of Britain. We are therefore right back to where we began - What images come to mind when you think about the Battle of Britain? For Germans it's simply a myth.	2000-12-17
US	50452306	R1B125NFS7M6FW	0679720197	551664662	The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers	Books	4	154	180	N	N	Great theory, but ... book badly in need of updating	The problem with this book (and maybe why reviews are so divergent) is that it tries to be two different things. It succeeds as a historical narrative about the development of various western powers. The Hapsburgs, Napoleonic France, Czarist Russia, Prussia, Germany, and the British Empire are all covered. The Soviet Union, Japan and the U.S. come in for later treatment. The book traces the influence of finance, geography, politics and innovations and shows how advantages in each were strategically applied. It excells in describing the emergence of the western world from Empires and rising and falling 'Great' and 'Middle' powers involved in various alliances and coalition wars, through to the post Vietnam era of a bipolar world ruled by two Superpowers. Where the book fails is in economic forecasting specifically as it relates to the U.S. today.<br />Four fifths of the book is good, as it is devoted to the development of Kennedys' theory, which is - economic wealth and military power is relative. Relative in terms of its distribution among nations and relative within a nation over time. Indeed, the U.K. of the 1980's and today,(a second rank power in comparison with the U.S and Japan) is wealthier in absolute terms than the huge British Empire of the late 19th century. The idea that that there is a strong relationship between economic power and military might, which seems obvious, is also illustrated with historical examples. What is less obvious (until shown by the author) are the variations on this theme. For example, an economic power may not also be a military power at the same time (Japan in the 1980's). There is also a tendency for declining economic powers to spend very heavily on the military, as their sense of security decreases (Soviet Union and U.S in the 1980's). It is this tendency the author states, that is a symptom of what is called 'imperial overstretch' and is a characteristic of ALL declining great powers. It is this argument and it's developmentin the last chapter, 'To the Twenty-first Century', where the book shows how outdated it is.<br />To be fair, Kennedy is very clear in that he knows that writing about trends and projecting how they will play out in the future is NOT history. He states that &quot;many a final chapter in works dealing with contemporary affairs has to be changed, only a few years later, in the wisdom of hindsight; it will be surprising if this present chapter survives unscathed&quot;. That was the most accurate statement in the last chapter. It is ironic that a history book has been treated so badly by history, but when you stop and think about all the events that have happened since the book was originally published in 1987, it's not so surprising.<br />Obviously there is no analysis of the impact of the end of the Cold War, with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the reunification of Germany and most significantly from an economic point of view, the use of the 'peace dividend' to reinvigorate formerly heavily militarized economies. In general it is mostly a good book that suffers at the end from a brave but badly off target projection of what the 1990's had in store for the only remaining 'Great Power'.	2000-12-07
US	50452306	R2D6VGJGBW0V1R	0380713004	593111837	Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Nations as pawns on imperialist chessboard	I enjoyed this book,it covers the period roughly between the late 19th century up to 1922 and is focused on an area much larger than the Middle East of today. It is full of facts and informative and yet fairly easy to read through. At the same time I agree with the reviewer who stated that the historical sequencing of some events is confusing. Fromkin just sticks the emergence of Zionism in at the point when he discusses it's main supporter - LLoyd George. There are other points where he goes back to go forward, which is sore on the brain, and there are some chapters (Afghanistan, Persia, A Greek Tragedy) that seem tangential to his main theme and could probably have been left out.<br />His main theme, as I read it, is that the modern Middle East is the creation of diplomats and military officials of colonial powers playing the 'Great Game' using nations and people as strategic pieces, hoping to checkmate their opponents. The main protagonists were Britain, France, Germany and Russia, and the chessboard was the Ottoman Empire. There are many players mentioned but the three that get the most attention are Winston Churchill, Lord Kitchener and LLoyd George. The author very early on states that 'no man played a more crucial role...in giving birth to the Middle East we live with today than Churchill... there are frontier lines now running across the Middle East that are scar lines from those encounters with him.&quot; Although Churchill is mentioned often, in his many different capacities, ending as Colonial Secretary, it is not always clear how he made such a difference.<br />It is very clear that colonial administrators were clueless about the countries and people that they were making decisions about. At best, decisions were made on incomplete information or based on misunderstandings. At worse, and startling in that it was so prevalent, decisions were made on racist, bigoted and simply ignorant assumptions. There was a degree of anti-semitism in British colonial thinking that allowed them to see international, Jewish, freemasonry conspriracies where there was no such thing, nor has there ever been. It wasn't just the British. The Germans, Russians and French were equally adept at developing and acting on discriminatory, narrow minded and self serving policies. How these competing interests were cynically played out in what is now the Middle East is where the book excells. The picture of the various generals, diplomats, Lords, Prime Ministers and rulers of all types eagerly swaping and trading territories like some game pieces is a very vivid image created after reading this book. I am left with an impression of a gigantic real life game of 'Risk'	2000-11-28
US	50452306	RB4XBPC0C7I9X	0316845221	3737538	Do What You Are	Books	5	36	38	N	N	M(ay) B(e) T(he) I(nsight) all career seekers need	The Meyers Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) is obviously a more involved personality test than the introduction this book provides. 'Do What You Are' however, may be enough for most of us.I have no training in career guidance, nor was I familiar with any of the 'types' or terminology before reading this book. It gave me a good appreciation for the 16 different personality types and provided a simple step method to help me identify my personality type. For me that was sufficient, especially as along the way I have gotten insight into why certain aspects of my current job are pleasing and why others are...well, less than that. For persons contemplating or just starting their careers, the book would be very helpful. For others a little further along and not necessarily able to do a sudden career shift, or in a rut, it can be of significant use in helping adjust attitude and approaches to your job. I think the book opens up a world of possible alternative careers for all of us, you could say were hidden because we didn't know our 'type'. It's just left for us to find and seize the opportunity.	2000-11-24
US	50452306	RBN8KQWCEAMSX	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Liars Poker: Not your ordinary card game	Not a card game at all but a game of bluff and sizing up your opponent. It is very appropriate that the book starts off with the example of John Gutfreund (CEO of Salomon) trying to engage his chief bond trader in a single round of Liars Poker for 1 million dollars, because it is symptomatic of the egos of the players, the money that was being made and the excesses that characterised what is now generally called the greed decade. <br />Lewis's perspective is that of an insider as he was a bond trader for Salomon Brothers in their New York and London offices. It's generally a very funny story with some hilarious descriptions of some of the characters and their behavior. Hilarious that is, until you realise that damage was being done to lives, companies and industries. As the author so succintly put it &quot;the range of acceptable conduct...was wide indeed.It said something about the ability of the free marketplace to mold people's behavior into a socially acceptable pattern...this was capitalism at its most raw, and it was self-destructive.&quot;  That this was true he goes on to illustrate with stories about trades gone bad, deals losing millions, and people skewered for things they had no knowledge of. I guess you could say that this was Darwinian Capitalism, these people had evolved into predators and were at the top of the food chain. Lewis himself says as much &quot;the place was governed by the simple understanding that the unbridled pursuit of perceived self-interest was healthy. Eat or be eaten.&quot; It is no coincidence that one of his colleagues was called the Human Piranha!. Naturally, behaviour like this will lead to a messy ending and so it is, with the story culminating with a description of the Stock Market crash of '87 and Salomon itself in trouble.<br />I read this book at about the same time as 'Den of Thieves' and would recommend both (that is, if you are interested in a historical view of Wall Street; remember these events took place 10-15 yearsago). Liars Poker is good for the witty personal perspective Lewis brings, the other book gives a broader view of Wall Street and an investigative journalistic perspective of the insider trading scandal involving Michael Milken et al.	2000-11-23
US	50452306	R3P1DNADAHW2D4	067179227X	926409967	Den of Thieves	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Not much in common with Wall Street today, I Hope!	Criticisms of this book center around the details of bond trading, specifically the authors miscalculation of commissions. Also, perhaps, some hearsay is included as facts. The author states that no anonymous sources are quoted, but there were un-named and 'not-for quote' sources used.<br />You either believe that the main characters (Michael Milken, Ivan Boesky, Martin Siegel, Dennis Levine)said what they said in the book or not. It's relevant because if true,Levine was a bigoted racist as well as a common thief. Not only did he rummage in associates desk drawers and files looking for inside information but he is quoted as saying that he could not understand a banker friend (who was interested in international lending to Third World countries)because all he wanted to do was &quot;help the niggers and the spics.&quot; How's that for your respectable Investment Banker?! The point of the quote is this - Levine was not representative or typical of the 'new' banker but his comment shows that motives such as self interest and personal greed would certainly have found fertile ground to flourish in.<br />The book accurately portrays the characters (including the seedy ones),their backgrounds and the environment they found themselves in. Wall Street of the late 1970's and early 80's was changing.The Wall Street establishment of old money investment houses (Goldman-Sachs,Morgan Stanley,Kidder Peabody, Merrill Lynch, etc)and stately (maybe even stale)banks such as Citibank and First Boston were being forced to make room for investment brokers and arbitrageurs (Drexel, Burnham &amp; Boesky &amp; Co. etc).<br />New products, new people, new methods were being introduced. The new bankers were not your starched white shirt, conservative, Ivy League trained, WASP corporate types. They were first of all, younger and from different class, educational and ethnic backgrounds.  Many of them  were  from immigrant or Jewish working or middle class families and felt themselves to be ostracised and generally outside of Wall Street. They were not all motivated by greed and certainly were not all Dennis Levines, but for  a few, given the opportunity,the positions of power and the money, and now that they were 'In' they were going to change things around. Sales techniques and hustle was now more important than where you graduated from. Presentations to corporate boards were out, replaced with speadsheet analysis of cash flows and  trades over the phones. The movement was towards allowing some who were previously spurned by Wall Street to get in on the action. They were going to shake up the system and as Milken himself said &quot;tee up GM, Ford and IBM and make them cringe&quot;.<br />I don't find the book villifying Milken as the Devil himself but then again it doesn't portray him in a positive light either. I don't have any problem with that because I am of the view that he was a crook. A brilliant, driven, powerful and extremely wealthy and well connected financial innovator but... still a crook. <br />Overall the book is written with a bias towards the SEC investigation and uncovering of the insider trading scandal and the subsequent arrests of Levine, Boesky and Milken. From the perspective of 10 years on, the book is of more historical interest. All of the principals have served their time and most of the companies are gone (merged or metamorphosed). There are some interesting vignettes of people who since then have gone on to bigger and better things. You can read about Robert Rubin when he was still at Goldman Sachs, Rudy Giuliani when still US Attorney and Chuck Schumer when still only a Congressman who was critical of the SEC. There are also 8 pages of photos of the major players.	2000-11-22
US	50452306	R9NJHRP4TYP6L	0380703882	948818246	Communion: A True Story	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Don't be gullible	There are a couple of important points to note, firstly this book is non-fiction largely because the author BELIEVES that the events that happened to him and his family are true. Upfront Strieber tells you where he is coming from - he would have laughed in anyone's face making the claims that he is now making - contact with 'visitors.' He was/is a skeptic. Later he is most eloquent in asking where the journey will end - for him it can only be in the human dimension - &quot;I do not have it in me to be a true believer nor a true skeptic ... I loathe the narrow and love the broad.&quot;<br />This brings up the second point - the book is brilliantly written. The imagery he creates with the written word is powerful and the reader is carried along while the author moves from terrifying experiences to moments of clarity, insight and acceptance. He argues that perhaps the visitors are from inside the human unconscious and &quot;if they were no more than wind in the eaves or moon lighting the fog... then it was a key to what I mean to myself&quot; That is a lovely lyrical expression of self discovery.<br />He puts forward and explores various hypotheses about the origins of the vistors. The one I loved best was that we are a human 'larvae form' in contrast to them, the adult form - akin to the vast difference between a caterpillar and butterfly, which would explain the difficulty in relating to each other. After all he goes on &quot;we are consuming our planets resources with the avidity of a caterpillar on a shrub.&quot; I found that line hilariously funny.<br />Even if you have had an interesting or unexplained experience of your own and how many of us have not, enjoy the book for what it is - a well written, sometimes frightening story  that will periodically make you go Hmmm - I wonder. Don't be gullible and rush off to send your letter highlighting your experiences to the address provided - after all, authors should do their own work gathering material for their next book.	2000-11-21
US	50452306	R25B78IGIFXZ0M	0679730826	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Stone, Flesh, Iron and Fire	Have you read Carl von Clausewitzs' &quot;On War&quot; and if so do you think it is THE classical text on warfare? If yes, you may want to skip the first 60 pages of Keegan's book which repudiates Clausewitzs' theory that  'war is the continuation of policy by other means.'  'A History of Warfare'  has a unique approach - sweeping the subject up into 4 'themes' -stone,  flesh, iron and fire- each covering a specific period or method of warfare.  In between are 'interludes' on specific subjects - I found the one on  fortification to be very interesting. Although encyclopedic in terms of  scope and period covered, it is  not a dry book. It is actually very easy  to read and serves as a good introduction to military history. The book  dives deeply into the cultural, and social factors behind war. Only where  Keegan ventures into Philosophy in the first interlude 'war in human  history' does he slip a little.	2000-03-26
US	50452306	R24SDMTGERRCHY	0803294379	281428091	Battle: The Story of the Bulge	Books	3	45	49	N	N	Readable research	The book is well researched.It is also a gripping account and hard to put down even though it is written in a scholarly style - reporting the facts only. The author saves his opinions and thoughts on the battle for the  Epilogue which is very refreshing as you get to read the story of the  battle as it really was - history - not explanations, ideas and conjecture.  I have a couple of problems with the book and one is a major disappointment  considering the research material that must have been available - the maps  are too few, poorly illustrated and are poorly placed - they don't flow  with developing battle. The second issue - for those who may need some  guidance with military terms and units - a small glossary would have helped  or a table of units. For instance, how many men are in a task force and  what comprises a combat command brigade? It is relevant when you read that  after a particular battle only  a few dozen or so men were left from a  particular task force. If you have no idea how many men there were to begin  with the impact is lost on you. Some interesting side issues are  mentioned.The author states that Eisenhower knew that German scientists had  almost completed an atomic bomb and felt that maybe the Ardennes offensive  was an attempt to gain time for it's completion. Another interesting case  was the story of Baron Von Der Heyde - a famous German paratroop commander.  He was given a special mission behind American lines in the north. What is  interesting is not the mission itself but the fact that Hitler trusted Von  der Heyde at all - after all he was one of the earliest members in the  conspiracy against the Fuhrer and he was a cousin of Baron Von Stauffenberg  - the captured leader of the plot. Hitler must have known about the Von Der  Heydes connection.	2000-03-26
US	50452306	R3L05UV2ZBPGZ9	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Readability 5, Historical objectivity 1 - Overall 3 stars	An objective, analytical and comprehensive assessment of the military significance and impact of the allied landings in Normandy on June 6th 1944 is NOT what this book is about. The subtitle of the book (&quot;The  climatic battle of WWII&quot;) is simply wrong - there were many other  battles with more military significane than D-Day. That said, this is an  excellent read with lots of first hand accounts and anecdotes from the oral  histories of the participants. It is a gripping account of the confusion,  chaos and carnage that reigned on the invasion beaches. The chapters  describing the 'Omaha' beach landings are graphic and bloody. A comment  made in the book that &quot;war is waste&quot; is well illustrated in the  detailed treatment given to the losses of men and material on Omaha. You  can not help but shudder if you picture in your minds eye what one soldier  saw that morning - &quot;thousands of body parts lined the Omaha  beach...floating heads, arms legs...that was the first wave of the 116th  regiment.&quot; Or the other GI who after struggling ashore flung himself  down, finding a place in a long line of 50 or so soldiers sensibly seeking  shelter he thought) behind a sewall, only to discover with a shock that  every single one of them was a deadman. The book is more like a novel or a  screenplay. In fact the real 'Mrs Ryan' of &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;  was actually a Mrs Niland who received her 3 telegrams on the same day  advising of the deaths of her 3 sons. Another scene from the movie is based  on the account of a soldier who when asked to lend assistance replied that  he could not becasuse he did not know what to do with 'THIS'. This - being  his severed left arm which he was carrying in his right hand. Overall the  book depicts the humand drama of the day. There were some heroes and some  cowards. There were mistakes made by the allies - naval friendly fire  killed 64 soldiers in one incident and the airborne drops at night landed  many paratroopers in flooded fields where some drowned or in towns where  they were hung up in trees or buildings and shot on sight. The point the  author wants to make he makes early on. Namely - It was the intense  training that the allied soldiers were subjected that got them through  during the crises of 'plans gone to hell'. The individual platoon and  company commander used his initiative wheras the German soldier was frozen  by his orders and rigid command structure. Also the deception plans played  a major role in keeping the Germans off guard and giving the allies  critical breathing room. If you can avoid getting upset over some of the  other views that the author pushes repeatedly - 'the US GI's at Omaha won  the day,''the British couldn't fight for an hour without stopping for  tea'then the first hand accounts, excellent maps and overall readability  makes it a book well worth picking up.	2000-03-02
US	50452306	R11F0X9YCT5SYJ	0671734008	279614391	The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Those were the days	Was it the writing or the main character that made this a fascinating read? answer- both! Chernow brought the character and his environment alive(early 20th Century New York merchant society),and what a character JP  Morgan was! I read this book some years ago and what has remained with me  ever since is the image of JP Morgan as a somewhat reluctant Titan. Sure he  was larger than life and his famous piercing stare DOES come through in the  photographs. You can easily imagine people hustling out of his way as he  strode down Wall Street. Yet Chernow does a good job of humanizing the man,  explaining clearly that he really had no choice (family upbringing,  apprenticeship, business inheritance) all worked to make JP Morgan what he  was. What also comes across is the fact that the Financial world at the  time almost demanded and needed a JP Morgan. The early pioneering days of   Wall street are vividly portrayed.JP Morgan's role in leading, cajoling,  directing and bullying where necessary,to ensure that industries and  markets developed - is explained clearly. You certainly get the sense that  the man understood the times and took seriously his responsibility as a  person of influence and power. Greed, surprisingly to me, does not seem to  be a major factor in explaining JP Morgan. All in all an interesting  insight into a bygone era and a fascinating character.	2000-01-20
