US	50467358	R24JZVZW4W7IP3	0300076495	19405998	Modern Art in the Common Culture	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hope for art	Is contemporary art dead?  Amidst the onslaught of all the -isms and in a life-world in which art and life seem so removed: is art dead today?<br />Crow doesn't think so and he offers a selection of observations of specific artistic practices that illuminate the vitality of art in our culture today: yes, it still speaks and it still responds.  There is still hope.<br />There is a great reading of Warhol's &quot;Disasters&quot; in its social and historical context.  You might just take another look at a Warhol after reading this piece.  And against Peter Burger's declaration that the avant-garde is dead, Crow responds that engaged avant-garde practices still exist, if not flourish today: Bleuker and Matta Clark, to name a few.  As an art historian of 18th century France, Crow proves to be a deft observer and critic of contemporary art practices.  <br />Beautiful picture plates alongside brilliantly written essays.  This is art criticism and art history at its best.  What is criticism?  The best, I think, are the ones that appreciate and demonstrate value without the pretenses and the cliches.  This book is such an effort.	2001-02-09
US	50467358	R1VP275LAA54Q0	0679737251	207537873	The Success and Failure of Picasso	Books	4	38	41	N	N	What's a genius anyway?	John Berger is a critic with a real sense of decency: never too high-falutin, smart and responsible.  He asks us to see beautiful objects, not in their staid isolation in the museum setting, but in the context of social history.  It is obvious that Picasso was a genius.  He saw and drew things that evoke wonders and passions.  But is that all?  <br />The central essay here is &quot;The Moment of Cubism.&quot;  Berger paints a general portrait of a distinct era of possibility: artistic and social and political.  The explosion of Cubism is but a moment in a larger moment of real revolution.  Not just &quot;ways of seeing&quot; but ways of living, thinking, hoping.  Berger reminds us that Picasso needed the times (Europe), he also, more specifically needed friends and support.  After all, there were two who brought forth cubism; moreover, there were the likes of Cezanne.<br />Berger asks the question that is overlooked in the constant reverence of Picasso's potency (echoing Benjamin Buchloh on the &quot;ciphers of regression&quot;): was Picasso genius throughout his career or was that moment (historical and aesthetic) the real genius?<br />(For more on Berger, read his two inspired novels: &quot;G.&quot; and &quot;To the Wedding.&quot;)	2001-02-09
US	50467358	R30S4QYUXF1PL4	0671604295	40248722	Hitchcock (Revised Edition)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	elucidating discussions by two masters	this book conveys two fundamental aspects of art: respect and friendship.  it is clear from the opening introductory essay that truffaut genuinely loved, respected, and cared for the works of hitchcock, moreover, for the person behind the art.  and in their discussions, it is all the more clear that genuine friendship and admiration occurred between the two.  truffaut's questions are informed and probing, but above all, his enthusiasm for the films echo throughout.  he carefully balances formal questions with his account of his own first impressions.  hitchcock is lively, never condescending, with an air of immense pride for his works.  <br />reading this book is like sitting in on a great conversation between two passionate people.  it's a hard book to put down as every page is replete with great film stills and engaging discussions.  truffaut covers the entire hitchcock oeuvre.  for this, we should be grateful as he reminds us of the many number of works that are still widely unavailable and unseen.<br />the book opens with a sort of a manifesto by truffaut as to what great cinema should be.  the discussions that follow fall along the paths that truffaut lays down: what is suspense, the role of arbitrary fate, the unreality of the cinematic image, and how to tell a good story.  it ends with a thoughtful tribute, of truffaut's reminiscences of his last encounters with hitchcock.  it's a moving portrait of the last years of a genius.  <br />this book includes a helpful &quot;bibliography&quot; (cinemaography?) of every hitchcock movie.<br />a truely invaluable book for any cinemaphile.	2001-01-16
US	50467358	R19A1P1D677GEM	0872200620	897785786	Leibniz: Philosophical Essays (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	40	47	N	N	A necessary compendium of  a formidable oeuvre	The greatness of Leibniz is undermined by the vastness of his oeuvre.  It stands of no single definitive works.  Like the monads that he espoused, Leibniz's writings are here, there and everywhere, each bit mirroring the  whole--the universe that Leibniz envisioned.  Short of an encyclopedia of  Leibniz's oeuvre, this book can serve as a nearly-comprehensive collection  of the 'goods.'  The major pieces are kept in their entirety.  Included  with the likes of 'Discourse on Metaphysics,' 'New System,' 'Specimen of  Dynamics,' and 'The Monadology' are formidable chunks of Leibniz's letters  and occasional pieces.<br />To do justice to Leibniz is to immerse oneself  in this great labrynth of thought.  Perhaps one day a Renaissance of  Leibnizian studies will flourish on the account of this collection.	2000-05-06
US	50467358	R22ZFIE1VY0ELL	0814751458	268379191	The Women and War Reader	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A decent start	The intersection of women's experience of and in relation to war is indeed an important and mostly neglected field of study.  This book is a positive step towards this direction.  However, the essays here are more cursory  than substantial.  This is a reader, an introduction of sorts, but the best  readers collections most often consist of exemplary passages or works in a  particular field.  None of the essays in this collection have the weight to  stand on its own.  As a collection, this reader presents a sample of the  major issues and areas of study being conducted today.  At best, the book  contains footnotes to more formidable and groundbreaking works.	2000-05-06
US	50467358	RYYGT4HMK2RBW	0226458067	795342322	The Essential Tension: Selected Studies in Scientific Tradition and Change	Books	4	18	25	N	N	More puzzles, please...	These collected essays provide a nice framework for further investigations into Kuhn's groundbreaking 'The Structures of Scientific Revolutions.'  At the forefront are the issues of writing the history of scientific  disciplines.  This is to be contrasted with the philosophy of science, and,  to be sure, Kuhn differentiates the writing of a history from the  philosophy.  What this book provides are more empirical and contextual  essays that serve as details to the theoretical framework of  &quot;Structures.&quot;  Kuhn is and will always be a frustrating but  rewarding thinker.  This book is no exception.	2000-05-06
US	50467358	R2DX7YVN9OXBEQ	0679640118	177682081	The Varieties of Religious Experience	Books	1	15	55	N	N	Tedious	Sorry to throw off the curve... but this book is long-winded and short on useful ideas.  I say 'long-winded' because nearly half of the text consists of citations, most of which are unnecessary.  Rather than making arguments,  James presents passages that illustrate a point, a feeling, a sentiment, an  idea(?).  But what is clear is that you've just read nearly 600 pages that  amount to nothing.  No wonder Wittgenstein allegedly read this book over  and over again.  There's no point!	2000-04-22
US	50467358	R2JEGI39NWVK1C	0679736549	672492879	G.: A Novel	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Perspectives...	What is fascinating about this book is how Berger tells the story of the modern Don Juan (Don Giovanni) from the perspective of the seduced.  Instead of telling the heroic tail of the 'conquests,' Berger focuses on  the reception of seduction.  Rather, seduction is a two-way street.   &quot;He&quot; is the seducer--but so are his partners.  They all come with  interesting stories.<br />The 'protagonist' is uninteresting; he's not even  all that attractive.  Yet, Berger isn't all that interested in why G. would  be attractive for so many women.  Here there are no heroes and no victims.   In sex there is the encounter of two: 'who' they are isn't reducible to  status and power; rather, it is the activity of anticipation, the  clamouring, the lust, the mutual surrender, and the tenderness of fleeting  moments.  <br />Such moments are told against the backdrop of an astute  historical understanding of the role of the sexes.  Berger obliterates our  preconceptions of sex-roles, our unconscious historical memories, by  focusing on the mutual nature of passion.	2000-04-21
US	50467358	R299T8KABINP2E	0226067416	366500324	An Invitation to Reflexive Sociology	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Excellent introduction to a prodigious body of work	This book consists of three parts.  In the first part Wacquant offers a general summary of the key points and works in Bourdieu's oeuvre.  The second part is an extremely entertaining interview with Bourdieu.  Here,  Bourdieu demonstrates that he is far from a cold scientist of social  culture.  Of particular interest, is Bourdieu's reflections on his book  'Homo Academus' which is an internal critique of the French Academy.  In  these passages, Bourdieu's comments reflect his passionate committment to  his work, and in the ways that his own interest and investment in a social  field must (somehow) become an object of reflection.  Also, Bourdieu's  comments reflect his great passion for art despite his own analysis of art  strictly in terms of cultural capital and social status.  At times,  Bourdieu is dazzling.  The final section is a transcription of a seminar,  again, on the practice of sociology that remains conscientious of its  position and limitations.<br />This book also includes an extensive  bibliography of Bourdieu's writings up to 1992, as well as another  bibliography of relevent external sources and commentaries.	2000-04-21
US	50467358	RDMG2GORFAOFS	0060928417	387056977	Slowness: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	His worst offering	A bad Kundera is still better than most.  But this is a regrettable book.  Kundera's worst aspects are all on ample display here: his clumsy, if not indifferent, depictions of women; the valorization of the sexual conquest  (coupled with degradation here); and his philosophical and historical  musings.  At his best, Kundera makes these weaknesses into a plus.  (Don't  ask me how but they work.)  Here, these qualities are all parts of a  carnival of pathos.<br />It is as if Kundera decided to write the appendix to  'Immortality.'  But this time around the structure isn't so surprising.   The originality is, the second time around, presented as farce.	2000-04-21
US	50467358	RLJFQJDRXM1KE	0816625174	768227949	Power and Invention: Situating Science (Theory Out Of Bounds)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Insightful	Stengers is best known for her collaborations with the physicist Ilya Prigogine, these dense, difficult, and topic-specific works.  The collected essays here are indicative of a broad range of topics that will interested  non-specialists.<br />Stengers's reflections on science situate her between  Kuhn and Deleuze, a strange but potent mixture.  Add to this, the work of  Barbara McClintock as an exemplar of the scientist, Stengers demonstrates  her status as the most insightful and relevent thinker of science today,  perhaps the most philosophical of them all.  I say 'philosophical' because  Stengers interest always rises above the issues raging in philosophy of  science, history of science and the sociology of science.  To be  philosophical means to extend the implications beyond the technical and  theoretical domains, to pose the questions in terms of what Stengers calls  the 'ethicophilosophical order.'  It is not to conflate politics and  science, but rather, to suspend judgment, to remain within the tension, to  understand and to stretch the possibility of imagination.<br />To borrow a  metaphor from Feyerabend: how can a gang of thieves ever be responsible?   Stengers does not judge science on moral grounds.  Contrary to Feyerabend's  mistrust of science, stengers regards science as an inherently social and  passionate activity.  Key terms for her are 'jouissance' and 'mutual  arousal' between parties.  Responsibility in science, ethics in science,  isn't to judge it from the outside, but to tease the philosophical  implications of the activities in science.  <br />In all, these sample essays  will demonstrate the originality of Stenger's work.  Furthermore, they are  persuasive reminders of why science still matters to us; why we are still  'interested' in science.	2000-04-21
US	50467358	R340443WAK2U6K	0802135811	828895855	The Invention of Love	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Difficult, Disappointing	Heresy?  Stoppard is, by all means, brilliant.  It's a wonder that he hasn't been awarded the Nobel Prize yet, although, as we all know, this is no indication of greatness.<br />My problems with 'The Invention of Love' is  that it is too erudite.  It is more erudite than 'Arcadia,' another  difficult piece but one that balanced complex concepts from science with  more approachable dichotomies between Classicism/Romanticism, love/science,  truth/error.  <br />Many of the jokes here are immersed in extensive learning.   It is interesting that Oscar Wilde figures so prominently here.   Stoppard's puns and witticisms depart far from the accessibility of Wilde.   One of Stoppard's greatest strengths has always been the ways in which he  balanced profundity with absolute, and obvious, nonsense.  <br />In a way,  this work may be the closest that Stoppard will ever get to Beckett.  It is  an unfamiliar Beckett: the young and proud Beckett who was determined to  establish his erudition and obscure wit at every turn.  But somehow Beckett  always made it work.  Erudition never foresook crispness of delivery.  The  punch was always there whether you knew it or not.  In this work, unless  one is both an historian of British culture and a philologist (covering  Greek, Latin and all of English literature, to name a few), one may not  know when to laugh or when to muse.  And this isn't a good thing in theatre  where the immediate reactions of the audience matters so much...	2000-04-21
US	50467358	R37IOJUJYSRCF9	041592362X	804063498	Religion and Culture	Books	3	24	25	N	N	A mixed bag	As the English speaking world is lacking the definitive collection of Foucault's numerous occasional writings for journals, newspapers and forwards to books, any addition to the ever-expanding oeuvre of  translations is a plus.<br />Most of the selections here have been published  previously in other collections.  However, this collection includes some  interesting pieces that were previously hard to find.  My favorite may be  &quot;Who are you, Professor Foucault?&quot; an interview conducted shortly  after Les Mots and les choses, in which Foucault dismisses the criticism of  anti-humanism by referring to humans as mere functioning species.  Classic.   Also, the essay, &quot;Is It Useless to Revolt?&quot; is a stunning and  conflicting piece of political writing.  Beautifully written (and  translated).  The editor includes a selection of Foucault's final lectures  which outlines the intended fourth volume to the History of Sexuality: The  Confessions of the Flesh.  <br />In all, these essays provide an interesting  contrast between Foucault's aesthetic views and views on spirituality and  religion.  Indeed, the mystical side of Foucault are highlighted in his  essays on Klossowski and modern French fiction when read alongside his  writings on the Church and mystical experiences.  <br />Oh, and this  collection includes a marvellous brief memoir by James Bernauer.  Good  stuff...	2000-03-06
US	50467358	R3QITSCUHWN788	0674387090	230983022	Martin Heidegger: Between Good and Evil	Books	3	13	25	N	N	a good cover...	as far as a work in the genre of biographies, this book doesn't stand out.  but since it is a biography of heidegger, it stands out nevertheless.  safranski depicts heidegger narrow and straight without any recourse to  psychologism or moral condemnation/justification.  this is an intellectual  biography and a fairly successful one at that.  safranski does a good job  of describing heidegger's education and he gives a good, general account of  most aspects of heidegger's philosophy.  <br />the chapter on heidegger and  arendt is particularly illuminating--just because the subject is so juicy  to begin with.  and again: safranski does not put heidegger on trial.  it's  a good thing.  similarly, he depicts the question of nazism that looms over  heidegger with a balanced account.  intresting note: i didn't know that  heidegger was conscripted briefly by the german civilian army towards the  end of the second world war, did you?	2000-02-11
US	50467358	RFQSU44GNUBOB	0375750363	813192898	Confessions of a Philosopher: A Personal Journey Through Western Philosophy from Plato to Popper (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	3	4	11	N	N	excellent travel reading	despite beginning on a sour note with an awful chapter called 'scenes from a childhood,' this book picks up at times and lags at others.  why was the opening chapter so bad?  it is a brief memoir of magee's childhood, of the  period when the first seeds of the philosophical imagination were planted.   it's rather corny and overly pretentious.  and frankly, i don't believe  that one can recall such moments with such clarity.  it's philosophy as  fiction, literally.  <br />successes: 1) magee seriously challenges the  preeminence of linguistic philosophy (anglo-american, or analytic  philosophy to others), whereby he contends that linguistic philosophy is  really a bunch of really smart guys who play clever games without  accomplishing anything worthwhile. 2)magee gives a better account of his  encounters with different philosophies. 3) he gives an even better account  of his personal impressions of russell and popper.  magee has the talent to  be a good intellectual biographer.<br />oh, no, i've said too much: if you  should happen to know in advance that you will be stuck in an airport for  hours, go and pick this up.  it'll pass the time with enough stimulation to  offset the jetlag.  but be sure to buy the book BEFORE you get to the  bookstore, given the nature of the selection at airport bookstores (and  their prices).	2000-02-11
US	50467358	R3F9RJ64YGQVMS	0226025985	16373552	The Human Condition, 2nd Edition	Books	5	39	55	N	N	come one, come all	this book starts off with a breathtaking reflections on the launch of the sputnik.  arendt seemingly places us before the launch as witness, evoking the kind of awe, wonderment, fear and anxiety that must arise from such a  sight.  the prologue is amazing.<br />i could easily come up with at least a  dozen potential research projects from this book that arendt just touches  on the surface.  (as is the case with arendt's philosophy, it is, at its  best, always very suggestive but, at its worst, she never follows through  on the initial offering.)<br />and arendt considered this book as her  response to the influence of heidegger; i think that this is a most correct  assessment.  in fact, this is the great heidegger-book that heidegger  himself never could have written.  in my view, the latter heidegger pales  in comparison (on subjects such as technology, poetry, speech, and history,  arendt tops her former mentor).  heidgger was truely out-foxed by this  book.<br />i suspect that even the amateur (defined here as the lover of an  entity-x) will find much in this book to make this a life-changing  experience.  in philosophy we often talk of such 'life-changing' books but  they are really few in number.  this is one such book.<br />be on the look out  for the moment where the discussion of nietzsche's conception of the  promise effortlessly morphs into the birth of christ as a miracle.  (note:  for arendt, the miracle isn't christ but the birth itself, for that matter  any birth).<br />full of grace, this book will be devastating and ultimately  redeeming.	2000-02-11
US	50467358	R2OA66C4T21TJX	1565843525	276898565	Ethics: Subjectivity and Truth (Essential Works of Foucault, 1954-1984, Vol. 1)	Books	3	34	38	N	N	A decent start...	I'm not too crazy about this inaugural edition of the Essential Works of M. Foucault series in English.  For one, the three volumes are to be collected from the French 'Dits et Ecrits' series; that is to say, the English translations will be a selection from the complete French.  It  blows my mind why they didn't just translate the entire French series.   <br />This volume is divided into two sections: the first is the complete  collection of Foucault's resumes from the courses he conducted at the  College de France; and the second part consists of numerous interviews and  essays that have been gathered around the theme of ethics.  The resumes are  the official submissions by Foucault to the College, meaning that they  weren't meant for publication but rather for administrative reasons.  As  summaries of a year's worth of teachings, covering 1970 to 1984, they only  provide crude chunks of what may have proceeded in these courses and public  lectures.  Thus, they are rather innocuous, and useless for most scholars.   The second part is equally erratic as the theme of ethics just doesn't hold  up: for example, what does the piece &quot;The Masked Philosopher&quot;  have to do with Foucault's study of Greek and Christian ethics?  <br />The 2nd  volume of this series, on aesthetics, methhod and epistemology, is a far  superior collection of Foucault goodies.<br />The best selections from this  volume is a good summary of Foucault's last two projects: on Greek and  Roman sexual practices.  Even the introduction by Paul Rabinow is a minor  disappointment.  <br />And I gotta say this: the cover layout is atrocious.   And why couldn't they just find another photo of Foucault for the back  cover, instead of merely reversing the image?  Which makes me wonder: which  is the original?	2000-02-09
US	50467358	R2ZNZ8DIP2X2QX	0520211014	596042491	Twilight Zones: The Hidden Life of Cultural Images from Plato to O.J.	Books	1	12	30	N	N	What about philosophy?	It's been a while since I begrudgingly, and achingly, plowed through this book.  I recall that most of the essays were really unimpressive critical readings of cultural issues, like O.J., the depiction of women in the  media, etc.  And frankly, Bordo didn't say much...<br />Bordo is best known  for her book on Descartes.  Since then, she's become better known to a  broader audience, and the quality has suffered for this.  As a pop culture  critic, Bordo should know this pattern all too well.<br />Now as I recall,  there is one essay of philosophical (un)interest.  Bordo treads the tired  postmodern versus liberal feminism debate.  She pull the rabbit out of the  hat by doing a Houdini act whereby she criticizes both and at the same time  affirm both.  <br />And here's a short review of her book on women and eating  disorders: mostly good but then Bordo makes her  &quot;nowhere/everywhere&quot; argument.  Her solution to the alleged  contention in feminism is to bring in Foucault as the Deus ex machina of  her silly essay.  <br />In other words, don't take Bordo's philosophical  writings seriously.  You're best served to read the people and the books  that she claims to be arguing for or against.  If you're looking to get a  summary of the current issues and debates in feminism, don't look to Bordo.   Her occasional essays in these areas are so watered down and so high and  mighty that they do a great disservice to the many great works being done  by feminists today.  <br />On the other hand, if you take her pop culture  writings seriously... you probably watch too much t.v., and seriously at  that.	2000-02-09
US	50467358	R32Y3AS0W10FJ7	0791430006	149454144	Nietzsche: A Novel (S U N Y Series in Contemporary Continental Philosophy)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The death of tragedy	Krell is a major translator of Heidegger who, in addition, have contributed to fine books of interpretation on Heidegger as well as Nietzsche.  Krell's previous Nietzsche-outing, &quot;Infectious  Nietzsche,&quot; is a bold, inventive and challenging look at Nietzsche and  the discourse surrounding body, health, and disease.  <br />In this fictional  biography, Krell once again tackles Nietzsche, covering the last years of  the philosopher's life as his body and mind became ravaged by syphillis.   By combining Joycean literary techniques with snippets of Nietzsche's  actual letters, Krell attempts to give voice to the impossible: madness.   <br />At the hands of any other writer, such a project would be an utter  disaster (and not in any good sense) but with Krell's depth of  philosophical as well as philological understanding of Nietzsche as well as  the languages and the cultures that meant so much to him, this book is  surprisingly poignant, stirring and haunting.  <br />The letters which range  the entirety of Nietzsche's sane life, from adolescence to the very final  scribblings before madness overtook him (some such letters have stains of  lunacy), reveal a tender and fragile Nietzsche, that his own persistent  metaphors of laughter, dance, and war often betray.  These letters also  reveal the inner core of Nietzsche: his passion for life despite the  ailments and personal shortcomings--why he came to write such good  books.<br />In the end, Krell's Nietzsche is not unlike the Nietzsche of 'Ecce  Homo,' the half-mad self-invented alter ego of his former self.  In  dissolving the very boundaries between philosophy and fiction, Krell may  have paid the ultimate tribute to the legacy of Nietzsche: for what is a  biography about Nietzsche anyway, but perhaps a profound work of art?	2000-02-09
US	50467358	R3FLPPBE3PSNDB	0520088832	984719961	Unbearable Weight: Feminism, Western Culture, and the Body	Books	2	9	57	N	N	See my review of &quot;Twilight Zones,&quot; also by Susan Bordo	Summary:<br />2/3 good (on body images, eating disorders)<br />1/3 bad (a terrible, god-awful essay on the purported debate in feminist philosophy)	2000-02-09
US	50467358	R1TLCHGQG77PC6	0802151299	464264753	Disjecta: Miscellaneous Writings and a Dramatic Fragment	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Good, rare occasional pieces	The hard to find piece &quot;Dante...Bruno.Vico..Joyce&quot; is included in this collection, and for this piece only, this is valuable for all Beckett enthusiasts.  &quot;Dante&quot; was the leadoff essay to a  collection of essays by James Joyce's peers on &quot;Work in  Progress,&quot; which later became &quot;Finnegans Wake.&quot;  Beckett's  insight into the works of Dante, Vico and Joyce is scary (I'm not sure that  Beckett cared too much about Bruno).  These three figures have come to be  important influences in Beckett's writings, and the fusion of Dante and  Joyce reveals the very core of Beckett's own oeuvre.  (This is the piece  where Beckett defiantly stated: &quot;Here form is content, content is  form.&quot;  Also, the line: &quot;Literary criticism is not  book-keeping.&quot;)  In any case, Beckett the great prose-stylist, a  healthy rival to Joyce, demonstrates his worth as a critic, perhaps the  best critic of Joyce.    Also, included in this book is the &quot;Three  Dialogues&quot; with Georges Duthuit.  This is the classic pseudo-interview  that reveals some of Beckett's greatests remarks on art:<br />&quot;Yet I  speak of an art turning from it in disgust, weary of its puny exploits,  weary of pretending to be able, of being able, of doing a little better the  same old thing, of going a little further along a dreary  road.&quot;<br />&quot;The stars are undoubtedly superb, as Freud remarked on  reading Kant's cosmological proof of the existence of  God.&quot;<br />&quot;All that should concern us is the acute and increasing  anxiety of the relation itself, as though shadowed more and more darkly by  a sense of invalidity, of inadequacy, of existence at the expense of all  that it excludes, all that it blinds to.&quot;<br />Superb.  It's hard to  imagine giving good word to Beckett.  It is better to let these words  trickle, slide, and coagulate on their own.  As Beckett quoted from Freud,  &quot;The stars are undoubtedly superb...&quot;	2000-02-06
US	50467358	R2RZ9WUPEVY1J	0802150667	948189332	How It Is	Books	5	5	12	N	N	&quot;warmth of primeval mud impenetrable dark&quot;	Imagine.  Wallowing, hoping, despairing, sinking, dreaming... then a phrase:<br />&quot;the air thrills with the hum of insects&quot;<br />More mud.  Grovelling, twisting, stumbling, crying... then another:<br />&quot;I listen a  good moment they are good moments&quot;<br />Somehow the mud doesn't seem so  dirty, the darkness doesn't seem so bleak.  For there is lustre even in the  mud.  Such is the beauty of Beckett.  <br />and is there not infinite wisdom  in the following?<br />there are moments they are good moments.	2000-02-06
US	50467358	R3SFCSVFPRSXK3	0802134262	393344734	Nohow On: Company, Ill Seen Ill Said, Worstward Ho: Three Novels	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Stunning...	Beckett, like his mentor Joyce, carried his creative and visionary power through his last years.  This unofficial &quot;trilogy&quot; marks the last great Beckettian moment, which, in my opinion, ranks second only to Endgame  in sheer poetic beauty.  <br />Between the opener, &quot;Company,&quot; and  the closer, &quot;Worstword Ho,&quot; there is the struggle between  creation and annihilation, belonging and forlornness, hope and despair,  daybreak and dawn.  <br />And then, the middle piece, &quot;Ill Seen Ill  Said,&quot; could be the screenplay of a beautiful movie that was never  made (perhaps in the imagination of Beckett himself?).<br />On.	2000-02-06
US	50467358	RGUTCN7ZWPRBK	0804726906	865399763	The Political Ontology of Martin Heidegger	Books	4	16	16	N	N	The place of philosophy	On the misinterpretation of this book, Bourdieu writes in the preface: &quot;All of this was there in the text, waiting to be read, but it was rejected by the guardians of orthodox interpretation, who have felt their  privileges threatened by the unruly progress of the new sciences, and so  have clung like fallen aristocrats to a philosophy of philosophy, whose  exemplary expression was provided by Heidegger, erecting a sacred barrier  between ontology and anthropology.&quot;<br />Surprisingly enough, the seeds  of this book was written nearly a decade before the &quot;Heidegger  contoversy&quot; that swept through the French academy in the late 1980s.   Rather than denouncing Heidegger as a Nazi or defending Heidegger's  philosophy as exempt from his political miscues, Bourdieu offers another  route: forget the singularity of the discourse on Heidegger, rather, we  must look at the historical, cultural, social, and political context that  made Heidegger's involvement with Nazism possible.    Forget the  &quot;man&quot; and let us examine the context...<br />This is a brilliant  insight: we focus on the merits of the individual, even as great as  Heidegger, and forget that individuals are actors in a larger matrix of  culture, politics, economics and history.  To this, Bourdieu discusses the  homology of the three fields of production: philosophical, academic, and  political.  In this, Bourdieu argues that there is no possibility of  reducing the discourse on Heidegger to any specific field.  We must look to  the ways in which Heidegger's activities and writings both reflect and are  determined by the constructs of the three fields.  By &quot;political  ontology,&quot; Bourdieu challenges the statements of pure ontology that  have been circulated by both Heidegger and his commentators.  &quot;Pure  ontology&quot; is contrasted with &quot;political ontology.&quot;  Despite  Heidegger's claims, and despite his enormous philosophical insights, can we  ever claim to notions of the &quot;pure&quot;?  In this, is not Bourdieu  making a stake for himself as a faithful Heideggerian by virtue of opposing  the pure?  <br />Beyond the discourse on the Heidegger controversy, Bourdieu  strongly contends that we must give up notions of &quot;pure&quot;  disciplinary studies whether they be a pure reading of philosophy or a pure  political or social reading of an event.  In the end, as Bourdieu suggests,  this book isn't necessarily about Heidegger in any sense; rather, this book  is a practical exercise--that is, a preliminary exercise for a possible  method, which must always remain reflexive and changing.	2000-02-05
US	50467358	R13IFV6L1FOPHL	0631190953	262826295	A Heidegger Dictionary	Books	2	51	56	N	N	Wost of the series	Anyone familiar with the Blackwell Philosopher Dictionaries series will be disappointed by this edition from Michael Inwood.  As far as I know, Inwood is primarily a Hegel scholar, and the lack of information (breadth and  depth) on Heidegger demonstrates that this edition could have been better  served by someone more familiar with Heidegger.  <br />Now, Heidegger wrote a  lot of books and Inwood doesn't do justice to the rest of Heidegger's  oeuvre apart from Being and Time.  For example, why is there no section on  Heidegger and Leibniz? or Aristotle? or Heraclitus? and so on.  <br />I would  imagine that a dictionary of Heidegger should consist of far more pages  than this volume which falls well short of 300.  For example, Cygill's Kant  Dictionary is replete with numerous entries and references to specific  texts.  <br />This edition of the dictionary series is in need of a dramatic  overhaul.  <br />Heidegger, who was so careful about his works, deserves a far  better treatment than we have before us.  This edition amounts to no better  than a glossery of terms: terse and in many cases uninformative.	2000-02-04
US	50467358	R3I5VD8YS19PYH	0791430081	379301409	The Gift of Beauty: The Good As Art	Books	1	10	10	N	N	What? Why? How?... Who cares?	I must admit that I was unable to complete this book.  Halfway through reading this arduous book, I found myself deadlocked before a persistent question: why go on?  What's the point?<br />This book is heralded as the  first of a series of reflections on the gift.  This seems like a noteworthy  project but in the hands of this author, the project falls flat.  For some,  the conception of a series of studies implies growth at every turn.  For  Foucualt's The History of Sexuality, at every turn, the author was faced  with challenges, crises, and redirection.  It took 7 long years before  Foucault continued the series; I doubt that the author here has ever faced  such crises.  I note that this gift series is well on its fourth edition.   The gift series is on a roll...  it is abundant, as the book repeatedly  says (ad nauseum).<br />If Nietzsche was the greatest philosophical  stylist--well, there is no comparison to Nietzsche here.  Take for example  a paragraph I found on page 167, which follows two quotes from Hegel and  Heidegger (of which no direct link is ever made).  It reads:<br />Only great  art.  Only poetry.  Only thinking.  Only humanity.  Only man.  Only  only.<br />(resumption of the review)<br />What is going on here?  Such  pseudo-poetic turn of phrase appear throughout the book.  By now we are  accustomed to sentences that defy and challenge the conventions of logic  and grammar.  However, we have here just PLAIN BAD WRITING.  This book,  read as experimental prose will disappoint many.  (I suspect that perhaps  no one will be disappointed as no one should seriously consider this book  at any length.  The reviewer fully understands the irony here.)  <br />But  Stephen David Ross is a philosophy professor and this book covers the  entire history of western philosophy from the pre-socratics to the recent  works by Derrida, Butler, and Luce Irigaray.  In its effortless and  unconscienable 300 pages plus, this book does a great disservice to all.   Technical phrases are haphazarously mentioned without explication.   Otherwise, we are left with baffling and insolent phrases such as the  following:<br />I interrupt this interruption before return from it to add  that I understand one of the amrks of the good in our time, perhaps its  most telling mark, to be the question of sexual difference, interrupting  the hold of every category and identity with questions of gender and sexual  identity. (page 12)<br />(resume review)<br />Interruption of an interruption for  an interruption?   Ross takes important themes of sexual difference,  ethics, and justice and whirls them into a single, sprawled  self-referential portrait.  In the end, instead of promoting and drawing us  to task on these issues and themes, the book repels any intelligent reader.   I surmise that, metaphorically, the author paints exclusively in water  color with emphasis on the pastels.<br />This is an incredible (incredulous!)  narrative of a series that is based on the good but which stands without  any real or explained connections.  All is good by the virtue of the good  that is forcefully squeezed out by the author.  Enough is enough! this  reviewer protests.  Mercy, mercy.  Enough of the good already!  But as Ross  repeatedly states: the good exceeds limits, always.<br />In the end, all is  encased in this book as the good.  But rather than challenging the history  of western philosophy, Ross has virtually imposed and reified the very  narrative that this work professes to challenge.  What is the link between  Heraclitus and Braidotti?  The book answers: wht it is the good, of course!   In the end this amounts to saying: que sera, sera.<br />And maybe somewhere  between pages 200 and 300, the author cites from Doris Day as well.  This  reviewer, having said enough, having shunned the abundance of the good, may  have missed this moment altogether...	2000-02-02
US	50467358	R2AKQSJ6H98U9S	0816615985	95282292	The Fold: Leibniz and the Baroque	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A match made in... heaven?	I find Deleuze's earlier books on figures from the history of philosophy (Nietzsche, Kant, Spinoza, Hume) far more interesting and coherent than his collaborations with Guattari.  However, this book finds itself in the  middle of these two tendencies: no, it's Deleuze on his own, he's writing  about a major (but overlooked)philosopher in a manner that can only be  deemed: schizophrenic.  And since Leibniz's philosophy is schizo at times,  the pairing is near perfect (the best of all possible worlds).  <br />The  opening image of the Baroque is a bit vague, but then again, Deleuze has  always been short on precise connections and plentiful on creative and  unorthodox imageries.  Some sections are plain impossible to decipher.  The  are best imagined than really thought-through.  For example, how is Deleuze  using Leibniz's calculus?  I'm still lost.  I'll probably never understand.   But somehow, I think that he may be right about this--whatever he may be  suggesting in evoking the calculus.  The book is also full of other  interesting and elusive scientific theories in the realm of physics,  mathematics, and set-theory.  (I don't know much about any of these  subjects and so I shall remain silent on these matters.)<br />Unlike the  earlier writings on the history of philosophy where Deleuze remained  faithful in his readings, &quot;The Fold&quot; is definitely a performance  of Deleuze-Leibniz--more Deleuze than Leibniz but Leibniz as, shall we say,  a creative inspiration?  In this sense, &quot;The Fold&quot; is closer to  Deleuze's book on Foucault in that he creates a new philosopher: a cyborg,  built out of love, remembrance, and a goal towards the future.  <br />But then  again, does Deleuze top Leibniz in outrageousness?  Who was more out-there?   Somehow, I think that Leibniz was a bit more out there...	2000-01-28
US	50467358	R1C9D7BVDIJ07Z	0195093712	367539922	Saint Foucault: Towards a Gay Hagiography	Books	1	16	34	N	N	Can I give this zero stars, please?	This book stands against everything SACRED in Foucault's oeuvre.  For one, Foucault often commented in interviews that he hated CONFESSION.  For another, Halperin conducts a reduction of a thinker for whom the very parameters of engagement was to avoid reduction in all discourses.  And also, Halperin conducts his EULOGY, I mean 'pentetrating' study, with an  annoying rhetorical style that can only be described as: chatty.<br />For a  more intesting look at Foucault and any possible relationship with the  SAINTS, see &quot;Religion and Culture,&quot; edited by Jeremy Carrette.  One should work harder than to merely  canonize a thinker.  This is not to  say that Foucault's gayness is a non-factor; on the contrary, such  investigation should be undertaken with the utmost care--the kind of care  with which Foucualt wrote his books.  The last thing that gay-lib needs is a SAINT.<br />Throughout his  works, Foucault consistently proposed one important idea: that what is said  is more important than the person; that the effects of discourse is what  must be seized and uncovered over facts and data.  We should undertake a  study of the effects of this little book (and thank GOD that this is a  short book!): for HEAVEN forbid that people should read such  nonsense.<br />But then again, Foucault was an admirer of long-forgotten works  just like this book will be in a few years.  If the SAINTS be willing...	2000-01-28
US	50467358	R1PF35F4R7VGQK	1565845587	202381194	Aesthetics, Method, and Epistemology (Essential Works of Foucault, 1954-1984, Vol. 2)	Books	4	36	38	N	N	For nerds and for new comers	It is not so easy to determine where Foucault is attempting to go with his published books.  In this sense, the books from &quot;Madness and Civilization&quot; to the 3rd &quot;History of Sexuality&quot; can be thought of as practical works that have specific institutional and  discursive aims.  Thus, they are short in explanation of the methodology  and instead such intentions are available as they are practiced in the  texts.  For example, philosophers such as Nietzsche and Marx, to name a  few, are hardly mentioned in Foucault's book; however, they are often  evoked and utilised without obvious references or footnotes.  As Deleuze  once commented: Foucault doesn't say what to do, he just does it.  <br />Thus,  Foucault's occasional essays, covering academic journals, popular press,  lectures, introductions, and so on, serve to clue us, the readers, as to  where Foucault is coming from, and, furthermore, in which direction his  thought is heading.  <br />This edition, covering Foucault's superb writings  on literature, his mentors, music, as well as other philosophical  movements, situates a thinker within an intellectual context from his very  own words.  In &quot;The Archaeology of Knowledge&quot; Foucault begins by  saying &quot;do not ask me who I am...&quot;  To be sure, with this volume,  we can begin to better understand Foucault without the interface of  commentators and scholars.  Directness of discourse is an important element  in Foucault's thought...<br />Although much of the pieces that appear here  have been previously translated and released in a variety of formats, I  predict that any scholar or occasional reader would be pleased to accept  this redundancy for the very convenience that this collection  presents.<br />Some most interesting pieces include, the previously hard to  find Foucault's response to Derrida's reading of &quot;Madness and  Civilization&quot;; Foucault's responses to the Epistemology circle; and an  illuminating interview in which Foucault situates his thought in 20th  Century French intellectual life.  In addition, this collection includes  popular 'staple' such as &quot;Theatrum Philosophicum,&quot;  &quot;Nietzsche, Freud, Marx,&quot; and &quot;Nietzsche, Genealogy,  History,&quot; all of which provide endless insight into Foucault even  despite numerous re-readings.  <br />While serious followers of Foucault's  works would benefit greatly from this collection, this would also serve as  a good introduction to Foucault--maybe second only to the cartoon books on  Foucault!  <br />And to close: if Nietzsche was the greatest philosophical  stylist, this collection demonstrates conclusively that Foucault was a  close second...	2000-01-28
US	50467358	RNQCAU28Z4VF9	0674572874	613275268	Michel Foucault	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Just the facts, ma'am	As the two other biographies of Foucault (David Macey's and James Miller's flame thrower of a biography) are no longer in print, this objective and fair biography will suffice.  <br />Eribon concerns his work primarily with  Foucault's academic activities (a proverbial who's who of twentieth century  French intellectual life) as well as his political engagements.   Surprisingly these two aspects bring out a highly contradictory Foucault:  on the one hand, we find a determined academic who succeeds to the College  de France and becomes an important institutional figure in the French  Academy; but on the other hand, there is teh Foucault who was committed to  social justice, human rights, and a dedicated iconoclast who mistrusted  power, authority, and the institution.  <br />But what is lacking is a  penetrating account of Foucault's last years.  Eribon fast-forwards from  1977 (the year of Volonte du Savoir) to Foucualt's untimely death in 1984.   This comes as a great disservice for in those seven years Foucault's work,  in its absolute silence, underwent a significant and startling change.   Also, missing from this period is Foucault's re-engagement with  Catholicism, not as a practitioner nor a believer, but as an austere  intellectual who felt great affinities with the tradition of the Church and  Scholarship.  <br />On this note, the recent collection 'Religion and Culture'  includes a revealing preface by James Bernauer which reflects on Foucault's  final years as he conducted research for the last two volumes of the  History of Sexuality in a Catholic library.	2000-01-23
US	50467358	R2EZNSJMR9I0PN	0415100933	843623342	Routledge Philosophy GuideBook to Heidegger and Being and Time (Routledge Philosophy GuideBooks)	Books	1	21	41	N	N	Don't even dare!	Terrible.  Mulhall manages to spend 200 pages on Being and Time without saying much of anything.  Does he dare to strike out on his own interpretations?  No.  Does he adhere to a close word by word analysis?   No.  <br />Why then should we read this book?  (We shouldn't.)  <br />Once again,  this book is a perfect example that the British have no business reading  the Germans, and vice versa.<br />One would be best advised to check out  Michael Gelven's &quot;A Commentary on Heidegger's Being and Time.&quot;	2000-01-23
US	50467358	R2G9XRUMU55BX	0226137139	870664112	Foucault and His Interlocutors (A Critical Inquiry Book)	Books	4	23	23	N	N	An essential survey of the French intellectual tradition	The timely element of Foucault's works is that he was an inheritor of a tradition in French academia that had less to do with Baudrillard and Lyotard than with the underrated likes of Canguilhem, Bachelard, Dumezil,  Veyne and Hadot.  Fortunately, Professor Davidson has managed to collect  insightful essays on Foucault by his mentors and peers.  These essays can  be divided into two sets: historical documents and reflections.  Of note  with respect to the former is Georges Canguilhem's report on Foucault's  major thesis, folie and deraison, which is an historical document that  reflects both the value of Foucault's initial work as well as a succinct  and just summary of the work.  Canguilhem supplies two additional essays  that summarize the Foucauldian oeuvre.  With respect to the latter, of note  is Derrida's final remarks on the heated exchanges that occured between him  and Foucault about a handful of passages about Descartes and madness.   <br />But perhaps the most outstanding pieces in this collection are from Paul  Veyne which provide a penetrating insight into Foucault's historiography  (Veyne himself is an eminent historian at the College de France) in  addition to a touching memoire that draws the last works of Foucault on  ethics with a meditation on death.  <br />Other peers who contribute to this  collection include Deleuze (which can be read as an appendix to his own  penetrating study of Foucault), Serres, and the great Pierre Hadot (who but  Hadot could summarize the key points of the latter two volumes of History  of Sexuality any better?)<br />Finally, the much heralded but hard to find  debate between Foucault and Noam Chomsky is included here.  Many will find  it a great disappointment.<br />Foucault and his interlocutors is an important  survey of Foucault's legacy as well as a way into a side of Foucault that  much of American appropriation of his work has failed to grasp: the  austere, technical, and historical work that is a continuation ofa great  French tradition.	2000-01-23
US	50467358	R2JS8TRX1FNWXI	0374521611	390512967	A Lover's Discourse: Fragments	Books	5	23	31	N	N	A manifesto for nerds...	All academic works should be modeled after this one.  To make literature speak: to make the text yearn, cry, fear, love, and affirm.  The pleasure of the text?  <br />Is this a book about human love? Or is it also a book  about loving the word?  Does the lover love a beloved?  Or is the beloved  really the word?  <br />This book is for those of us who cannot participate in  reality as it is, but who are always filtering the lived moment through the  books that we have read.  This book which seeks to affirm at a time of  discontent and irony, affirms us in the end.	2000-01-23
US	50467358	R1AAEQOBI5H4XQ	0679767770	451118892	To the Wedding	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A tender masterpiece	Better known as a latter day Marxist art critic, Berger has always balanced a social conscience with an extraordinary eye for the beautiful.<br />This novel is devestating...<br />Berger's terse and direct style  has never been more appropriate.  This is a heartbreaking story of doomed  lovers who affirm love despite fate and death.  In the end the book  challenges us to say, 'yes, i will, yes.'  but without the obstacles.  as  jeanette winterson once wrote: art invites.<br />This is an unforgettable book  by a writer whose due for a Nobel prize recognition--that is, just so he  can refuse it and go about his merry ways.	2000-01-23
US	50467358	R3PZFGNFM3GQT1	0791442209	729839399	Manifesto for Philosophy: Followed by Two Essays: "the (Re)Turn of Philosophy Itself" and "Definition of Philosophy" (Suny Series, Intersections, Philosophy and Critical Theory)	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Philosophy or Sophistry?	If anything, Badiou's book poses a serious challenge to the dominance of Heidegger in continental philosophy today.  Philosophy can never announce its own end, the end of philosophy.  Neither can philosophy pretend to lose  itself in the linguistic turn, in the shift from logic and reason to  poetry.  Philosophy, Badiou argues, must be distinguished from sophistry.   Just as Plato founded philosophy from the thralls of sophism of his age, we  too must recapture the 'Platonism' of philosophy in an age of  anti-Platonism.  Badiou's middle course between Plato, on one hand, and the  likes of Heidegger and Deleuze, on the other hand, proposes the ideal of  philosophy that is not-yet and, more importantly, not reducible to extreme  conclusions, i.e., the rejection of philosophy as a dead endeavor.   Philosophy is not the antithesis of sophism, and in this the true opposed  to the false, but Badiou contends that sophism is a necessary partner of  philosophy.  In this schema, philosophy must be distinguished from sophism;  that is, we must uphold a conception of truth, or rather, of truths.     Philosophy seeks the truth in the plural, truth as multiple but which is  nevertheless truth and not relative 'truth.'  <br />In 'Manifesto,' Badiou  engages with the dominant currents of philosophy today in order to  reimagine the possibility of philosophy despite the skeptics.  In the  anglo-american vs. continental split in contemporary philosophy, one is  often left to choose two impossible alternatives: logic or poetry.  In  'Manifesto' Badiou opens up another way, a way that is a return to that  which has always been with us all along.	2000-01-03
US	50467358	R1DD5H3UPM8RPT	0679753354	83284681	The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences	Books	5	93	109	N	N	Yes, I like this book very much...	Perhaps this is the most significant (and consequently most overlooked) philosophical work of the twentieth century.  While upon its initial release The Order of Things launched Foucault's international career, it  has been largely ignored in favor of Foucault's analysis of power,  discourse, and subjectivity.  But, above all, Foucault was a philosopher of  history and this book stands as the unacknowledged center of his oeuvre.   It is a book of immense erudition, surprises, mystery, and wonderment.  And  contrary to Arendt's contention that philosophers do not laugh, this book  begins with a laughter and sustains the mirth throughout.  This is the  proper sequel to Nietzsche's 'The Gay Science.'  But this time, it really  aims for science.<br />Confession: even in my young age, I have read this book  8 times.  I hope to read it many more times.  With each reading the book  opens up new and unexplored territories.  Riddles reveal themselves as  words of a sage.  The sheer beauty and economy of the writing moves me.   <br />Perhaps in this book, that is, hidden in this book, the other Foucault  emerges here and there.  The other Foucault who is not reducible as the  theoretician of power, pomo revelry, or the modern heretic but the bold  thinker of history who always has one foot in tradition and the other foot  reaching in the darkness for a new ground.	2000-01-03
