US	50460693	R3EBWM7V0ORJOI	0425196836	971409045	Beauty in Black (Sinclair Family Saga)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	well, good but	John Sinclair, who can not abide the thought of leaving the family estate to his younger brother, Lord Gabriel Sinclair, decides to head to London to take a wife as he need an heir.  He is very scared from a bout with smallpox and had been living the life of a recluse to avoid stares when he is in public. <br /> <br />Miss Louisa and her Aunt Marianne are heading to London for the Season.  Louisa, very pretty and spoiled, decides ahead of time to pursue John when she hears he is looking for a wife, sight unseen. She is hurt from a love affair which ended badly in Bath.  She wishes to make her old love jealous.  She seems oblivious to John's scars and so does John's true love Marianne and here is the issue.  In the early 1800's people still suffered from smallpox.  In the late 1700's many a noble came down with it so it would not be uncommon to see other Lords and Ladies, especially older ones, with the same scars, though less in the early 1800's than late 1700's.  Many a farmer and local merchant would not have afforded the inoculations that the aristocrats used.  So his scars would not have been something so unseen to be that unusual.  And it is strange how Marianne, when she meets him, does not really notice them at all. Are they less severe than John thinks?  And that is the rub of the story.  In romances, a hero with a missing arm, leg or eye is one thing, but a man whose face is so severely ravaged by the smallpox that girls go running from him in fear and disgust, is another.  Certainly not typical hero stuff.  Yes, I am can be superficial with my heroes.  It would take a unique woman to really overlook and fall so passionately in love with him and his scars.  One might fall in love and learn to overlook and really not notice such scars but in the first meeting or so, you would.  So since she does not notice, they can not really be that bad thereby his appearance could not be so terrible.  Also, why not grow a beard to help hide the scars?  Anyhow, there is also little reaction from John's sister-in-law or others regarding his appearance.  His brothers perfect looks contrasting with his stolen looks would make for a lot of Ton gossip, I think. <br /> <br />	2005-09-29
US	50460693	R3Q3CHH8HI76G8	082177851X	258546044	Just Say Yes (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	a nice novel but...	Actually, I liked this story.  Geoffrey, our hero, the faux steward of his brother-in-law's estate, and our heroine, Cassie, the last remaining unmarried daughter (age 27) of the local vicar, was a nice evolving story. Geoffrey, who is to be a Duke when his father passes on, fights his growing attraction to the sweet, sunny Cassie.  He realizes that she knows zilch about society, how to be a furture Dutchess with its responsibilities and in charge of a large estate.  How would she deal with the Ton and his peers in Parliment?  All very important issues for him but love is love and he wants his girl.  While the stories twists, the dogs, the trial, the discovery that Geoffery was not just a steward, were not super exciting, it flowed and the vivid descriptions of the time, place and characters was enjoyable to read.  But I do have an issue with the ending in that it ended to early with Cassie finally saying \\"yes\\".  With all Geoffrey's, his fathers and Cassie's concerns about how she would deal with being a Lady and the Ton, it would have been reasonable for the author to take us say one year into the future in an epilogue and play it out for us, the readers.  Was she a success?  Was she comfortable?  Did she learn to go on and enjoy it or did she hole up in the country? When a reader invests time and money in a story, it should be completed.	2005-09-29
US	50460693	RLZKJJ4G9FBW3	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	3	5	21	N	N	new stories	Like another reviewer, I had not realized how high the FDNY, specifically FDNY Palmer, how gotten and all I can say to that is a big WOW -how the heck to he walk up all those flights, runner or no runner??  What a testement to his strength.  I actually found the stories from inside rather vague and at times unclear who did and did not make it. Of course, there is so much we do not know that remains private amoung the families, which is how it should be.  While the FDNY/NYPD, court officers, security guards, PAPD got lots of attention, the incredible job Frank and company did getting people out was extraordinary. Why not more attention on him and other like him?  It seems from the book that there was zero unity between all the divisons which unfortunatley, probably caused deaths that could have been prevented.  But I am tired of people blaming the builders, the U.S., etc, anyone but the hijakers for what happened.  AS the books says, the WTC was build to withstand a direct hit by a 707,the type of plane that was around when the building was designed - it was built in the late 60's early 70's and hello people - do you really think any building could withstand what it did, two direct hits by huge aircraft fully loaded with fuel?  It is a testament to the builders that it stood as long as it did.  No, it did not stand long enough - that is a given.  I remember one widow saying that she was so involved in WTC hearings because she wanted to make sure it never happened again.  Well, unless she has some direct connection to terrorists in the mid-east, she is barking up the wrong tree.	2005-07-20
US	50460693	R3BV36YBV9PKD	0060006617	908183003	A Perfect Bride (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	good read but...	Actually, I liked this book.  I found it to be an easy read.  Our lass in jeopardy, Devon St. James, of course beautiful, gets into a sticky situation while living and working St. Giles and ends up in the guttter with a knife wound.   Lord Sebastian Sterling, Marquess of Thurston, rescues her but is unsure if she is as innocent as she says she is.  Will she clear his home out of its silver?  The developing relationship between them is very nice.  So why only 3 stars you ask?  A few reasons.  I think a book should rate 5 stars when it is indeed perfect and this has flaws in my opinion.  One,  how did she speak?  Her dead Mother was a governess but they did live in St. Giles so she clearly would be a tad rough around the edges, would you not think?  Yet the story only acknowledges that she does not read and all the dialogue has her speaking very well.  How is this possible?  How did a bar maid learn deportment?  The story describes her as walking in head high, back straight like any blue blooded young lady.  Really?  Seems more than far fetched. Also, the tense relationship between Sebastian and his rake brother, Justin, seems forced.  Justin acknowledges what a hero his brother is, what great care Sebastian took of him and his sister when they were young yet Justin seems to mock him.  Why?  I am guessing that reason is in the next book, The Perfect Groom.  Also, any way you slice it, Devon is a bastard so it would have been better if more time had been spent on what happens after they marry.  As a married couple, did they attend Ton function? Were they invited?  Also, I thought Devon's dismissal of his marriage proposal extreme and unlikely.	2005-06-28
US	50460693	R1643XX87IYN9P	0446606138	793852187	More and More	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Could not finish it	Wow - this book was so boring, the heroine so childish and the hero, well, what was he doing with her??  I could not finish this book!!  I tried so hard but this whole mess of a book, outside of some of the renters, was bland and silly.  Don't waste your time with this wreck.  Perhaps the book would have gotten better but really, who cared anyway?  If the h/h do not grab your attention early on, than it does not matter if one finishes or not.	2005-05-18
US	50460693	R2ZPMAA62XERF7	0449001849	483472324	Lucy in Disguise (Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Effort to Finish	I loved Kit from Celia's Grand Passion so I had looked forward to reading his story.  But this book was so bad that I had to make a real effort to finish it.  Kit meets up with Lucy (who calls herself Luke as she was pretending to be a boy) on the beach on night while smuggling.  He was shot and she helped him escape and bind his wound.  Diana (who I am guessing will figure in the story with the last brother) is the only interesting person in this draggy story.  Nice to see Celia and Kendal again and their baby.  But the romance between Lucy and Kit was flat and had no spark.  The mystery was flat, too.  A good romance has to have wit, romance, spark and an interesting premise.  All these were missing from the regency.  A romance between Kit and Lucy was forced and did not seem real.  The bad guys, if they are such, are also not interesting nor dangerous.	2005-05-18
US	50460693	R2TO24KHX9R8TX	0821777785	763014157	Unlaced (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	92	104	N	N	the positive reviews baffle me	This regency was almost impossible to finish.  Why would ANYONE give this regency a 5 star rating is beyond me. The hero, yes, Alpha hero, Henry, is just a jerk (while stunning looking).  If he is not kissing and trying to get our heroine Lucy on her back, he is busy blaming her for his loss of control.  He also constantly is accusing her of something, being false, trying to snag him for a husband.  He continually tells Lucy she is beneath him so he won't marry her.  Well, why in the world would Lucy time and time again give him the time of day?  Really, women who review these books, don't you want a heroine who has some self-respect?  If any female, you would hope, went out on a date a second time with a cad like Henry, well, you would think she was an idiot!  Lucy's desire to be a veterinarian might be nice but she knows that she can never practice being a vet in the truest sense  so why would she think she could not, in some way, continue to be the neighborhood helping vet hand even if she married?  Really, who cares for a cad like Henry!!!!	2005-05-16
US	50460693	R3550RBVXGYCHV	0373770383	481281511	Shall We Dance? (USA Today Best Selling Author)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	So boring it is painful	Rarely have I read a more boring regency.  Perry Shepard, the Earl of Brentwood, was some sort of spy during the Napoleon war, is crazy gorgeous.  Plain Jane Amelia F. is his new \\"spy\\" target via his Uncle's orders to get gossip on Queen Caroline to enable Prinny's divorce.  First of all, the Uncle is a jerk and why Perry, who is wealthy in his own right would not just tell him to take a hike I do not know...Amelia, while being attracted to Perry, is just boring.  She is not interesting at all.  Why someone like Perry even be attracted to her is a mystery.  She might or might not be the Queen's daughter there-by the heir to the thone instead of Victoria.  Now, all of us know our history so it is really not a mystery.  Amelia is an orphan who the Queen took in as a babe.  Question to wonder is what would happen to Amelia when the Queen died.  She was not employed by the Royal Family, would have no money, references, so what is she thinking she would do?  The \\"mystery\\" of the box goes on too long also.  All in all, not a believable romance and the story dragged on to long. <br />	2005-05-04
US	50460693	RLMZB2VRY7LIB	0425201503	155338924	Mr. Impossible	Books	4	4	5	N	N	I like it!!!!  Yeah!!!	As I really did not like Miss Wonderful, I read this book because a friend said it was a fun book, much more entertaining then Miss Wonderful.  I agree!  I love regencies but have to admit to liking few.  I find most regencies tedious at best.  So I am always happy when I come across one that is a keeper.  This story, which takes place in Egypt in 1821, has Daphne Pembrooke, not quite beautiful but with a killer body, paired off Rupert Carsington, a wonderfully sexy, funny man.  They had great chemistry and I was happy that Daphne succumbed to Rupert's crazy charm.  The story is fast paced, with witty dialogue, interesting secondary characters, and vivid descriptions of both the characters and the places they go.  Miles, Daphne's brother who she and Rupert try to find and rescue, is rather bland.  I loved being inside of Rupert's head, his thinking process was fun.  My complaint with the book, though minor, is what is Rupert's story?  What is his background?  Why is he hunky but supposedly stupid??  And when Daphne and Rupert make their way to Rupert's home to meet his family, having Daphne in the carriage reading is silly.  Really, she would have been to nervous and asking thousands of questions about what and who she was going to meet up with rather than reading, I think. Also, it would have been nice to get a peek at their new life in London, which was not a place Daphne looked forward to going as she felt like a fish out of water there.  With him being, well, him, dashing, etc, it could have been fun to read an epilogue about their first ball together.  That is another complaint I have with so many regency authors - the stories always end with I love you sort of stuff but the real fun in real life marriage and relationships is AFTER the ring is on!!!	2005-05-03
US	50460693	R2D0QQ079UL9ZD	0821777610	204606577	Waltz With A Rogue (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	boring, bland...	I usually love anthologies as the stories can be quick and entertaining.  One does not have to wade through pages of irrelevant storylines.  However...I found in Waltz with a Rogue all three stories to be totally boring and bland. <br />        <br />The Highwayman Came Waltzing by Kathleen Baldwin has Lizzy and her family robbing carriages and, of course, giving some of the proceeds to the poor.  Her Uncle, as a landowner and guardian, is totally inept.  Lizzy and Co. are practically starving and in rags. The Uncle's stepson, Trace, returns home (he and Lizzy had a \\"past\\") and is put to work finding the culpret of these crimes. Of course, we know Lizzy and Trace will end up together - she must find out if he can love a thief...But really idiotic is the Uncle. How could Trace accept the way he treated the women and his tenants?  If Trace had so much integrity, well, he would be apalled! The romance is lacking.   <br /> <br />The Rebel And The Rogue by Mona Gedney, our young, silly heroine, Vivian Woodruff decided to \\"temporarily\\" marry the infamous rogue, Anthony Mallory by blackmailing him into it. Oh, okay. Right.  Divorce was so easy to come by back then, wasn't it... As she was such a silly chit why in the world would someone has urbane as Anthony even be interested in her? <br /> <br />Dance With Me by Lisa Noeli has the Irish Earl to be Neville Dunsleigh pretending to be a dancing master so he can find his true love who must love dancing as he does. As his passion is dancing so it makes sense to him to go undercover as a dance instructor to find this paragon who can dance.  Now, why he would not be able to meet a young lady who could dance and love dancing at the various functions during the Season is beyuond me and why he would think that when the young ladies of the Ton found out who he really was he would not look like a cad as he deceived them.  Neville meets lovely Penelope Spencer. And here the story gets even more boring so I could not even finish it!!!!! <br />  <br />	2005-04-19
US	50460693	R2J9AACTWY853U	0060543256	329679917	Sin and Sensibility (The Griffin Family)	Books	1	9	13	N	N	Could our Heroine be any more immature????	I agree that this book features two of the most immature characters that I've read. Eleanor Griffin, who is tired of being protected by her big brother, Sebastian, spends the entire story proving him right that she needed to be watched because she is not a grown up.  Her method of seeking her \\"freedom\\" is well, dumb.  Valentine, the rake, has \\"issues\\" but why would he even be intersted is such a silly girl?  I started skimming this book after a while.  Don't waste you time!! <br /> <br />	2005-04-14
US	50460693	RF0A9RLTBHEVH	0060528400	547145306	Duke of Sin (The Duke Trilogy)	Books	1	22	29	N	N	How could this book possibly rate  a 5?	I think too many reviewers give away 5 stars like candy on Halloween. This book was flawed in so many ways. Giving 5 stars when there were obvious mistakes makes you wonder exactly who reads these books! How could any editor miss the fact that the author describes H/H both at different times with different eye color?? That is inexcusable. I liked Will, Duke of Trent. But the \\"conflict\\" in the story does not really work. First of all, Will is charged with murder, rightfully gets off with the help of his two best buddies, two other Dukes. But...he lives 11 months of the year in Cornwall alone. This makes zero sense: if they were such good friends, would they not be associating with Will? Would Will not visit with them and them him? I do not get it. Also, Lady Vivian has a legal separation. Well, so what? Plenty of the Ton lived separate lives. The concept that she had to maintain a separate life and not even see her sisters is well, stupid. If the family maintained the illusion she lived in France with her husband, would she not come and visit??? And how could her husband have died 9 years earlier and she not know? He married her for her money and she apparently settled money on him with the legal separation, so if he was no longer looking for funds, what happened to him?  Also, what about Will's family?  He is a Duke so who is his heir?  So, Will supposedly has two valued friends who he never sees.  And another point:  the author is going to continue the series obviously about the other two Dukes.  But his book does not really have them enough in the story to make a sequel about them interesting.  She created zero curiosity about them.  The only reason I would even read the next book is to find out what happens with Vivian and Trent.  They marry I guess, but an heir? His her family?  Visiting London? Society accepting them?  Poorly plotted storyline.	2005-04-14
US	50460693	R2XB5TMPXOSB1B	0060838574	229727476	Blood Brother: 33 Reasons My Brother Scott Peterson Is Guilty	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Why the harshness against Anne?	Usually I do not read these sort of true life crime books but I had seen Anne on some TV show (I think Larry King but might be wrong) and was curious as to what she had to say.  It is funny how people assume she did it for money or are horrified she \\"turned\\" against blood family.  That is part of the problem in our society, family or not, not being held accountable for their actions. So what if they are related?  She is supposed to be on his side just because of that?  She did exactly that in the beginning at the cost of her marriage.  I can understand her husband Tim, since he thought Scott was guilty, not wanting Scott staying in their home with his young children and Anne was sort of foolish to not understand this.  But I can also understand, in the beginning, how she would try to help Scott as that relationship was new and she was happy at having her extended family.  In time, she did see the light but I also think it took a bit longer than anyone who had a brain in their head should have taken.  Jackie and Lee are a real trip but I do not question Anne genuine fondness for Laci.  It is a very readable book, interesting to see how Scott behaved behind the scenes.  In reading the book, it seems that Anne already does come from money so I do not think money was a huge factor.  One thing that I did like about the book was how Anne portrayed the loving adopted family she has.  Adoption gets a bad rap in this country and it is nice to see someone who was adopted have love and respect for their adopted families.	2005-04-07
US	50460693	R1NATCM6SMVSEH	0843953098	474360377	The Spare (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Could the hero be any more unlikable????	I do love a great regency/historical book. That being said, I dislike more than I like. I guess I am particular. But one thing that has to be strong in any book is a desire to finish! And one needs to be interested in the characters. Sebastian Alexander is perhaps one of the most unlikable hero's (and I use that term loosely) I have ever read. Sure, handsome, but there was really not a facet of his personality that came across as likeable so unless our feisty spinster Olivia has a martyr complex, why be interested? And yes, Sebastian spent 12 years at sea but geeze, sorry, having zero manners does not make that much sense. I found him creepy is his coldness.  And the murder mystery just did not hold my attention.	2005-04-04
US	50460693	R1GLHP3O33FNR1	0451213548	8079926	A Rake's Redemption (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Bland and Boring	I am not a fan of regencies that devote almost the entire story to a couple solving the \\"big misunderstanding\\" concept that usually could have been solved in one conversation. That being said, however, SOMETHING needs to happen to make a story interesting.  Lady Sarah Mallory, the Welsh beauty, and Lord Dunnelly, while attractive, were, well, boring. I have to agree that there is really no way outside of Sarah being an idiot, that she would not have realized that her nervous trembling reaction to Dunnelly was attraction.  Yes, I know, some girls were quite shelted but her cluelessness was silly.  The evil twin and the brother were the only interesting people in this story.  I am about ready to give up on Regencies for good!	2005-03-30
US	50460693	R4UL8LRQLUWTT	0451213890	408783716	The Duel (Signet Eclipse)	Books	2	15	17	N	N	a book not quite finished	A Barbara Metzger regency is generally a fun and entertaining read.  Her style of writing is funny, clever and cute.  That is true of this story some of the time but I find I am rather tired of regencies that employ the stragegy of the \\"big misunderstanding\\" to be central to keeping said hero and heroine apart.  Ian is a sweetie, rake and all.  However, how bad a rake can he be with all his charities?  He is a good-looking man who is 30 so would not one expect him to have bedded a few women?  The premise of the duel gone wrong was a good way to start but once Ian lied to Attie, well, you knew she would find out the truth and it would become an issue between them.  I find as a reader that if I know from the beginning of the story the \\"truth\\" about the mystery of said misunderstanding or lie than it becomes rather tedious to the extreme waiting for the other foot to drop.  Also, I hate when authors do not finish their stories!!!!  There were so many lose ends in the story that could have benefited from completion.  Perhaps 50 pages of our hero and heroine being torn could have been deleted and the stories resolved.  For instance, did Rensdale have the a long awaited son or not?  Is Troy still the heir?  Did Ian's Mom get together with Attie's Uncle who liked her?  What about Lady Doro and Carswell?  Also, since the club foot is an inherited trait with the men in Attie's family, was it passed on to hers and Ian's children?  These would have been things readers who are smart would want to know.  The least an author can do for their readers is complete a story to its proper end.	2005-03-30
US	50460693	R200R9CVO11K5F	0451210352	61819808	Miss Whitlow's Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Vague Character Development	This was not a bad read as it kept my attention.  George Clasby, the rake who wishes to reform via help from the well thought of Miss Harriet Whitlow, was some sort of gigolo, I think.  That is my issue with this story.  Was he a gigolo?  Seems that way but the author does not really clarify that point. Also, where is his family?  He has his own estate but with him being a Mr. and allowed to Almack's there must be some noble blood in him but from where?  He must have a sibling who is a Lord of something.  Why the vagueness?  I did not read the first two stories based with these characters, so maybe it is in them but all stories should be stand alone.  Also, why in the world would Harriet's father give permission for a rake to have a pretend association with his daughter?  I mean, George was using Harriet any way you slice it.  Why would he help George??	2005-03-23
US	50460693	R1XDEUCP2G8DMJ	0821776207	216475750	The Gilded Knight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	story not finished	I found this story to be incomplete at best and slow moving.  Almost all the action takes place at Nell Simmons home in the  country at the estate home she must vacate since her husband had died 8 months before and the new Viscount wanted to take proper ownership of the house. Well, it is his home and not hers (which is a fact she conveniently ignores).  Nell was not destitute; she was well off and had another home to go to sort of in London.  Donna Simpson does not really make her reasons for refusing to go understandable.  She was unhappily married, did not have many happy associations with the home so leave!  It was also almost criminal to stay in the country and deny her sickly daughter the London doctors who one would presume were better.  Her country doctor was old and always giving dire outcomes for her pretty, 9 year old daughter. As a mother, would it have have been her responsibility to get her daughter the best care possible?  That leaves Charles.  Lame since birth and taunted by just about everyone growing up, he has not made much of his life, he just drinks and gambles.  His small allowence paid by his brother George is not adequate to cover his gambling losses.  George says he will pay these debts if Charles can convince Nell to leave the home so George can move in.  When Nell finds out Charles would have had his debts paid for this service, she gets very angry.  But why?  She already knew Charles came to evict her but he never did. If fact, he was a nice guest and very helpful.  So what if he would get is debts paid?  Why she become so frosty is unclear.  Having lived her life among the nobility, she would be very aware of how unimportant second sons can be with no income of their own so how else would he get it paid, by working???!!!    But for me, this plodding story fails most at the end.  Charles has a revelation that he might be able to work and support himself after all.  He has a idea to contact an old friend of his family to ask for a job.  Good for him; but does he?  The story ends with them deciding to marry.  Since Nell has lots of money, does he end up working?  Does the little girl get better?  Does Nell have another child since she wondered about her ability?  Did George, who was unmarried and in mid-30's, die and leave the title to Charles?  I think the author could have left out some of the middle draggy stuff and had a last chapter completing the story. Why do so many authors not complete a story?  Any writing class has that as a valuable lesson to learn. So in the end, it is a story which was not finished.	2005-03-22
US	50460693	R2CZ7PDJTO3MVU	0821776428	387047056	Rosamund's Revenge (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	so ridiculous!!!!	This story was almost impossible to read past page 55.  I do wish I could read some of these regencies BEFORE they are published!!!!  The insurmountable problem in this story is the heroine, Rosamund, is a big jerk.  When she was 16, she had a season in Edinburgh and fell in love with an older dashing officer in the military.  She made a fool of herself and was consequently being sent away.  Before she leaves, she has her maid deliver a love letter begging for rescue from our hero, Lt. Rory Buchanan.  I thought Rory handled the situation with tact and kindness.  When the letter gets into the hands of the wrong people due to the fact her maid delivered it to the wrong man, she becomes a laughing stock.  He comes to say good-bye to her and was so nice!!!  He even returned the letter.  He felt she was just a young girl in the passion of her first crush and when she grew up would find the man of her dreams.  Now 8 years later, he reappears and she is bent on revenge and calls him all sorts of mean names to her family.  Why???  She describes him as a \\"hard-hearted, granite creature.  What a block!  What a Villain!  The seeds of hatred were sown...\\"He was not a villan - she was so there in lies the problem with the story.  Rory deserved better than her and she was not very likeable.  There was zero chemistry.  The idea that the book is based on the fact that she wants revenge for her hurt feelings when he was sweet to a young girl is just, well, a bad story with no redeeming characteristcs.	2005-02-24
US	50460693	R16V86MR11E580	0451213726	76828318	The Wagered Bride (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	8	20	N	N	last McCarthy book I read...	I had read Ms. McCarthy's previous book \\"The Rejected Suitor\\" which was terrible! This one, well, I stopped reading half-way through the book. Yes, I know in the regency period or other time in history people were different - different codes of behavior. You might not pay the baker or the person who makes your clothes, but debts of \\"honor\\", i.e. gambling, those must be paid.  It was not unusual for the nobles to refill their banks with money from Cits. Anyone ever notice how all the women who were Cits who marry nobles are all pretty? Anyhow, I now will refuse to finish any more regencies that have silly heroes and heroines. Elizabeth Shelby, the pretty Cit, had her elopement stopped by Stephen Clearbook, the four son of a duke and the brother of the arrogant Duke of Elbourne. Stephen is yet another regency buck addicted to gambling and drink. Of course, the author tries to dress this fact up by telling us Stephen is a war hero. And under that gambler exterior, a good man. Addicts, whether gambling or drinking, have many issues not solved by marrying. But I digress...Stephen foils the attempted elopement of Elizabeth with Fennington, the cad who caused issues for the sister of Stephen and the Duke, Emily. Now, why Stephen would simply not explain to Elizabeth the reason Fennington was a cad is beyond me and here is where I toss the book.  The assumption is that romances need the \\"conflict\\" that must be resolved to create a story so note to romance authors:  make the conflict real! Why have this ridiculous Fennington hanging?  The conflict would have been better served with them marrying and learning to live in each others world.  Also, the fact that Elizabeth was at a house party AND attended Almacks was not really plausible.  Skip this trite and ridiculous story.	2005-02-14
US	50460693	R327KEACZ535M9	006009298X	418464853	Temptation of a Proper Governess	Books	1	6	6	N	N	trust issue too important to smooth over	I actually liked Michael and Isabel but for some reason the author lets Michael keep the real reason he proposed to Isabel a secret and of course she finds out and can no longer trust him, which is understandable.  But the problem with this devise is that it is boring. The reader knows this fact and because Michael actually likes her would lead one to think that he would be honest with her about knowing her connection.  So the reader from the beginning is being set up to have to wade through this garbage.  I just started skimming the book at that point.  Good secondary characters towards the last half of the book.  I do wish, at times, that I could be the editor of these books.  So many mistakes.  But more inportantly, to give the author a heads up in remembering that yes, there needs to be conflicts resolved in these stories but why make the hero be less trusting that he actually  needs to be?  In real life, the fact that Michael so obviouly lied would make this one marriage that would probably not survive.	2005-02-07
US	50460693	R2KK8C3MC28M9	0312995229	957682624	My Scandalous Bride	Books	2	4	9	N	N	so-so at best	As always, anthologies are a hit or miss situation.  The stories are short so there is not much character or situation development which is why the short stories that are about couples who have previous relationships work best.  That was the set-up for most of these stories. <br /> <br />\\"The Lady and the Tiger' by Christina Dodd was a poor story.  Laura's brother, first secretary to Lord Keith Leighton, dies and she decides to find his killer.  Really, I know regency/romance authors go for this sort of spunky heroine sort of thing, but it was sort of silly.  To catch a spy does require some experience but apparently not in romance stories.  Laura is a commoner and Keith a noble.  The romance between the out of place Laura in the glittering regency world could have been interesting but never explored.  But when Laura ties up Keith when she thinks he is to blame for her brothers death and leaves him in a dangerous situation which could have resulted in his death, well, he certainly took it in stride.  I would not have been as forgiving as Keith.  A one star story at best. <br /> <br /> \\"Melting Ice\\" by Stephanie Laurens has our hero, Dyan St. Laurent, Dare, coming home to take his brothers place as Duke and meets up with an old flame at a house party rife with orgies.  Story was better than the others as it was fun to watch him rescue her and I liked her bookish brother.  But refusing to marry him the morning after even after she had realized the miscommunication years earlier made for zero sense.   <br /> <br />\\"Wedding Knight\\" by Celeste Bradley was just stupid.  The fact that Kitty takes her sisters place and marries Knight and when he founds out he forgives her?  It would have been more realistic if she had to fight for him to prove her love not the other way around. <br /> <br />\\"Proposition\\" by Leslie LaFoy has Lord Rennick St. James fighting for his beloved Julia Hamilton, a widow, who is all set to marry yet again a man she does not love.  This story too madeno sense.  It was not as if she even liked the man she was to marry. He was as jerk!!!! He could not remember her children's names and she would marry him?  Why?  She was not poor so money was not a factor. That just was illogical.  Also, she loved Rennick and after the four days, why would she not believe him?  That made no sense.  I did like that she was 33 but really, to already have a 16 year old son was sort of stretching it for me. Also, I think that too many authors fail to properly finish their stories.  If Rennick dies without legal issue, the estates and title would die. He married an older woman so did they have any children or not?  Would be fun to know.  After all, if the story of Henry VIII ended with his marriage to Anne Boleyn, we might have assumed everything worked out!  So as an FYI to authors, finish your stories!!!  <br />	2005-02-03
US	50460693	R2FYT84X2BD6DU	0451213521	746751656	Father Christmas and Christmas Wishes (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	disappointing	First off, I must say that I am a fan of Ms. Metzger's and looked forward to the double read.  But disappointments abound.  In \\"Father Christmas,\\" the book did not make any sense from the get go.  The Duke of Ware needs an heir so he decides he must marry yet again (will be marriage no. 3) He says that if he dies without issue, estates, etc. will fall to the crown since his heir, his cousin, is dead in the war.  But...since the Duke was at his cousins wedding and knows said cousin had twin boys, well, would they not be his heir?  Since this is true, his said need to marry to make sure the estates do not go to the crown is illogical and this is a very bothersom detail as it goes to the heart and beginning of the story.  We all know the next part, when he meets the widow and falls for her and the boys.  Okay - but then she protects her sister and takes on her sister's bastard girl and lets the Duke this it is hers...Why?  Why would anyone want to be thought less of what they are?  But a huge problem in this story is the end. If ever a story needed to tie up ends, it was this one so an epilogue would have been great.  Fast foward to a) birth of the Duke's own child or b) the day he officials bestows the title of Viscount upon the oldest twin.  Why leave the reader wondering? <br /> <br />\\"Christmas Wishes\\" fault lies in that too much of the story revolves around St. Cloud looking for Juneclaire.  A romance novel needs romance and if they are rarely in the same room, well, how can it develop?  I am also one of those readers who found the pig silly after a while. <br /> <br />	2005-01-10
US	50460693	R3MQ7W9H0LAI4J	0451210417	117999722	A Perfect Gentleman	Books	2	4	7	N	N	What could have been...	\\"A Perfect Gentleman\\" could have been a keeper for me, as are most of Ms. Metzger's books.  However, while the love story between the very attractive and nice Stony and rich Elliane was well written and most of the sub-characters were fun,the two subplots, the missing sister and the serial murderer, actually took away from the story.  Ms. Metzger wrote a longer regency than she usually does and this might be part of the reason that the story was not as engaging as it might have been since she might have been just trying to fill up the pages.<br /><br />Also, how could Elliane go from being a scarecrow to a beauty?  Stony liked women, he would have picked up on her finer qualities before he really did.<br /><br />I am also finding the tried and true regency plot of the spinster rich gal who refuses to marry sort of silly. Sure, there were and are are women who do not feel the urge to marry but for Elliane, she actually met someone she really fell for.  If she was so smart, would she not perhaps realize that marriage might not be a bad thing?  Stony, too, was sort of silly with his anti-marriage issue but in a way, his voice against marriage was based on the fact he had an empty title and pockets to let.<br /><br />All in all, love story was good but too maybe weak subplots.	2004-12-14
US	50460693	R29JN02BEJRFGE	0821776231	678027953	On the Twelfth Day of Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	7	7	N	N	Where is the romance?!	I ususally love holiday regency books.  But this one is so boring I had to push myself to finish it because I actually bought it!  If I could, I would return it and get my money back.  The story, one that is not very original, has Violet Leigh, a tall plain Jane compared with her gorgous Mother, sister and brother, who accepts her homliness with good cheer.  She goes off to her first seaon in London and meets a gambler, our hero Travis Halliday, who is as handsome as Violet is plain.  He likes her and since he has to get married fast to gain his inheritance, proposes and she declines as she knows he is not in love with her and just wants her to get his money.  Travis departs the next day to make his fortune in the West Indies.  Fast forward 2 years at a Christmas party and they are all thrown together and not much has changed. He still needs to get married to gain his inheritance.  There is zero chemistry between them nor any fun, interesting scenes between them.  Her two siblings are just silly and the bit with the pet monkey becomes lame.  This story could have used an infusion of holiday cheer.  During this holiday season, don't waste time with this lame, boring and very, very, very unromantic story.	2004-11-22
US	50460693	R2MN2HSW9SGJ1S	0451212894	466601577	The Madcap Heiress (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	what happened to Adam's sisters??	With all of his sisters well married, why was Adam and his parents still poor?  Would not any of his brother-in-laws help their wives family?  Even today one can expect to take care of ones parents to some degree.  Would not one of these men have stepped in to address the issue of Adam's career since being a vicar was not a welcome vocation? It does not make any sense.  Besides, Emma is a drag.  Why do regency authors think that regency misses involved in ridiculous, stupid situations and behave as though they are just plain dumb are seen as smart and spunky?  I have read a few of Ms. Henrickson's books in the past, but this was a disappointing read.	2004-11-09
US	50460693	R1HVCR424VAG1Y	0451213351	514634567	Regency Christmas Magic (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	3	12	N	N	DISAPPOINTING	The early regency anthologies were better as they had stories which were fun and interesting.  The last several releases have had either one or two good stories and the rest, well, were not very good.  When I saw the Barbara Metzger and Edith Layton were included in this issue, I figured I was in for a treat.  But I was diappointed.  All 5 stories were just boring, no real standouts. Edith Layton's \\"Two Dancing Daughters\\" was the best of the 5 with the lame soldier Henry being hired to basically babysit 2 sisters who had unearthly beauty and beau's.  \\"The Enchanted Earl\\" by Barbara Metzger had the typical lyrical writing of Ms. Metzger but the story also fell flat.  If you must read this regency holiday issue, save your money and get it from the library.	2004-11-02
US	50460693	RTJVIY1947DER	0821777211	726608476	A Kiss For Christmas (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	0 if I could	These three stories had no redeeming value or interest.  It was a struggle to even finish the book.  In \\"A Promise Kept\\" the story was illogical.  A street urchin becoming a noble via adoption and accepted in the Ton?  Connor's love interest, who he remembered from the workhouse they both were in as kids, lives with her father-in-law and child with 2 other relatives who make her life miserable.  When Connor wants to marry her, her father-in-law says she can but must leave the child behind.  And she continues to be kind to him!!!!! \\"A Merry Gentleman\\" is the best of the 3 with Lord Henry's home being invaded by 12 girls for the holidays (but where are the men??? any hostess would want even numbers at the table) and he falls for the one who thinks he is cold.  But he never really acts that way so why have that assumption???  \\"Once Upon a Christmas\\" had an elephant thrown in the story for good measure but again, while I love romance and some magic in the air, a lady who was to marry a Duke traveling around the countryside with a baby elephants attracts no attention?????  Just silly...	2004-11-02
US	50460693	RTRXJ5VY9ZHLD	0306809893	655016990	The Sisters Of Henry VIII: The Tumultuous Lives Of Margaret Of Scotland And Mary Of France	Books	1	10	11	N	N	disappointing	I was very interested to read this book about the sisters of Henry VIII having become interested in them when reading Jean Plaidy's stories about them.  I was very disappointed.  The book really is about Henry VIII and a general history of that period.  Mostly the author stresses that one does not know the reactions of either Mary or Margaret to certain events.  But things are known about them. For instance, Mary's husband Charles, married right after she died.  To whom?  The book does not mention this. Also, he was not a faithful husband.  Why not mention this?  Margaret had small pox and was greatly disfigured but where was this fact in the book??	2004-09-29
US	50460693	R2A2048Y3LUQE0	0670033162	884989856	The Doctor's Wife	Books	3	9	14	N	N	good but...	I mostly liked this book but as I got closer to the end, I liked all the characters less and less so thereby not really giving a hoot what happens!  Lydia Haas was off her rocker and her self-indulging husband, Simon, was a creep.  I guess Annie was attracted to the \\"bad boy\\" in him as her husband, Michael, was too straight for her as she approached her middle years.  Michael was also self absorbed.  Of course, to be as good a doctor as he is/was depends a bit on that quality.  But Lydia's ending in the story seems forced with Simon paying more than his share of the cost of two messed up lives.  Annie's thoughts regarding her husbands abilities or lack of in bed make for the ending to be unrealistic.  Sure, she loved him in a way but was no longer attracted to him so really, in the end, they should have got their separate ways.  But it was okay.	2004-09-02
US	50460693	R3KY90SSMUS4IO	0451211707	88486218	Under a Lucky Star (Star Trilogy)	Books	2	1	6	N	N	bland	The romance was only so-so and the Cynthia's mother along with Cynthia's coldness was just not interesting.  I was glad to see the story take place when Derek was a bit older as well as Cynthia and was best pleased by the return of Natalie and Malcolm.  I liked the setting at the Duke's estate awaiting for the baby to be born.  I enjoyed their return but that only heightened, for me, the blandness of Derek and Cynthia compared with Nat and Malcolm.  Also, what ever happened to Derek's and Natalie's Mom?  She was in the last book - where did she go? And what happened to Hector and his wife and their new baby?  I felt these things should have been included to make this story more well rounded.  I had no problem with Derek and Cynthia in the Orange room anticipating their marriage vows.  For a regency, that is not typical but it was a nice surprise in an otherwise bland so-so book.  I notice that this is a star trilogy and I wonder who is next and last up in this trilogy but I hope whoever it is, it is more entertaining!	2004-07-22
US	50460693	R344FLJUSU0YZ4	082177591X	548536256	Courting Trouble (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I fell for St. Fell!	I liked this book much better then \\"The Ideal Bride\\". Arabella Swann was a fun if light hearted heroine and St. Fell was just darn sexy.  Sure, people meet and are attracted right away but not necessarily love right away which is why I liked the fact that the author describes the theatre evening in terms of conversation.  Nola and Garbriel were referred to in this story but frankly, I forgot who they were at first!!  Hint to authors:  if you are going to include previous couples from books already completed, a bit backgroup/review would be helpful.  I do agree, however, that a Cit marrying a Duke, no matter how much money, would cause a stir and this could have been more realistically handled.  It also would have been interesting to include an epilogue on them, especially since St. Fell felt sure they would have boys.  I thought, perhaps, that there would be another sequel about Toby or Compton, but I read that the author is now working on contempory books, which is too bad.  Interesting regency writers are getting rare these days.  I did feel, though, that the author use of the maiden Aunt and St. Fell's Mom too much - they become annoying and a hinderence to the story.	2004-06-22
US	50460693	R2UWJ6NQWY1D6L	0743454529	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel	Books	1	12	27	N	N	could have been great	I had many disappointments with this book after having high hopes. Another reviewer hit it on the head when saying it could have been great but missed and boy, does it.  The subject is Anna, who at 13, has decided not to donate her kidney to her 16 year old sister, Kate, who has Leukemia.  The real why is sort of a mish mash of Kate wanting to end her suffering (she was diagnosed at 2) and Anna, who loves her sister and wants to in a way set her and her sister free from the torture of medicine.  It is Sara and Brian, the parents but especially Sara the Mom, who pushes for every possible chance to cure her daughter and really, who could blame her.  The problem for me in this book was 1) the laywer, Brian, very lawyer slick.  When he side swiped Anna with the court order to remove her from her family's home, what was he thinking, really?  That that is what Anna wanted?  Julia, too, was another problem.  Geeze - they had a high school fling!  Get over it already!!!  For someone who is as smart as she is supposed to be, she is dumb with men and that was, frankly, a bore.  THe dog thing went on to long and was no great mystery.  The parents were more interesting but the author does not do them justice at the end.  So the father finds release in a bottle after the loss of their daughter, after the author almost lets you think at the almost end, that the couple were finding their way back to each other, which would have been nice.  So what happens to Sara after the death?  Is this poor woman left to pick up now after both a sick daughter and a drunk husband?  Jesse, what a loser.  He starts fires and nearly kills a man and his Dad does what - nothing!!!!  And since Jesse had this huge rap sheet, ah, I do not think he would have been accepted at any police academy.  Cops can't have records.  And which daughter dies was just stupid.  To have it set up that way was a loser move.  I would not recomend this book at all.	2004-06-09
US	50460693	R2Y74USSHC504U	0380819090	235379681	A Necessary Bride	Books	2	7	8	N	N	90 pages too long	Meg Stanton-Lynch is an American granddaughter of a Duke.  Justin St. James is a deadly handsome Earl with a ward named Emily and he had been banished from England for 6 years as everyone thought he killed his cousin's fiance.  Well, of course he didn't and of course Meg knows this and wants to help Justin clear his name.  But here is the vastly annoying part of the book - even after sleeping with Justin, she won't marry him.  Her denying his proposal was about a 100 pages and it was about 90 pages too long. She loved him!  She knew he liked her, appreciated her, needed her.  So he did out outright say he loved her, well, it was unrealistic that she would continue to say no even after it was apparent that her refusal caused a rift in his relationship with Pen and her husband.  She was childish and frankly uninteresting.  Also, everytime she did something a tad out of the common way for an English gal, it was always, well, I'm an American!	2004-06-03
US	50460693	R1PUUV8GREVO57	1582432678	467980841	We Need to Talk About Kevin: A Novel	Books	2	9	17	N	N	disappointing	I had picked up this book with high hopes but rather ended up being disappointed.  Shouldn't Kevin's name really Damian (from The Omen)?  Such a bad seed...I do not buy Eva's lack of bonding with him.  I am not sure what she was suposed to bond with.  There was not a single moment anywhere in the story where Kevin acted like a regular little boy.  Not one moment of niceness anywhere.  To say she rejected him when he rejected her breast, is trite.  If as a baby he had moments of cuteness, I am sure she would have felt better about him, like she was with Celia, her daughter.  Her husband, Franklin, was a big boob.  His gee wiz Daddy-O routine was over the top and not believable.  Also, Eva would have received some support from the community. After all, she found her daughter impaled on the arrow target and her husband murdered.  I would have been interested in the aftermath of her discovering the bodies - who did she call, who came to investigate?  What about that funeral? She says she called the victim's families to see if it would be okay for her to go what what her little' girls's or husband funerals? Also, why in the world would she devote Saturday's to Kevin?  He murdered her little girl in such a barbaric way that how could you even want to talk to him, especially after the eye thing? Just because he is her son?  Not reasonable.  Kevin clearly was born with some misallignment in his brain, some defect, that the blame can not be Eva's alone.	2004-06-01
US	50460693	R1G7E5PN0YHF1Q	1582432678	467980841	We Need to Talk About Kevin: A Novel	Books	1	12	24	N	N	born bad?	What I found lacking in this book was Eva and Franklin's role as parents.  Kevin was obviously different, an unengaging, not responsive, emotionally distrubed child yet neither parent seemed to feel therapy was an option or should be something they should check into?  I think Kevin was born bad and therapy would be useless but it still, especially today, been a logical step for a parent to take with a child who is not quite right and it is not as if money was an issue for this family.  But Eva's biggest failure is in being Celia's parent.  She knew Kevin was guilty of harming her in such a terrible fashion yet what does she do to protect Celia in the future?  She stays and puts her child in further danger.  For that crime, and it is a crime, she should bear the guilt.	2004-06-01
US	50460693	R3AJ4U1R80BRG8	0821775065	856481480	The Pleasure Of His Company (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Prossy Heroine	Mariel Bradeon Whitlow, who actually should be called Lady Mariel Bradeon Whitlow, had been disinherited by her family when she married Charles, the good Vicar.  10 years have passed, she is now a mother of Anna and a widow in London with her grandmother.  The problem for me with this story is Mariel, herself.  As one reviewer already wrote, she is very judgemental and not really all that smart but thinks she is.  Sort of prossy.  Her brother, James, the head of the family, was involved in her leaving the family along with her father yet 10 years later, he is &quot;reformed&quot; with a flighty wife, and Mariel forgives just like that?  Most people would have a hard time just saying okay, enough done. After all, she had a daughter who was also ignored by the family.  Seems too trite to just gloss it over. Also, extremely stupid of Edward not to tell Mariel that he had an idea who her other brother, the missing William, was.  It made no sense that when she confided in him, he would not with her.  His reasons were illogical.  Also illogical was her dismissal of his good deeds.  He gave money away but also opportunities for others to improve themselves.  What exactly was her problem - why shame him that way?  I really did not like her.	2004-05-26
US	50460693	R3IKPSRNBC7X73	0821775391	690642327	Miss Milford's Mistake (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	could not even finish it	This book was so bad I could not finish it.  While I can applaud the auther in sort of trying to do something different, i.e. the fact that Eleanor Milford rejected Griffith's proposal not becuase she wanted to but because she wanted to see him do it again and again and again then finally say yes.  Okay - so she was young but he goes off to join the war effort (gee, how noble) and returns 6 years later with a title inherited from his brother, who died.  All this time he can not forget her.  Please - yes, love is great but 6 years have gone by.  She did, after all, reject him, so his I still lover her attitude was out of place.  It would have worked better if she had to work at making him fall in love with her again.  It is illogical that he would try to pretend interest in flakey cousin Priscilla just to get close to her.	2004-05-25
US	50460693	R2680XDT83TQOT	0821775065	856481480	The Pleasure Of His Company (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	to slow	My goodness - could this book have dragged anymore than it did?  The pacing was too slow.  Mariel was priggish, missish and out there pious which led her to be very judgemental, which was not a very nice characteristic in her.  Edward seemed almost too slick to be likeable.  So there you have it - neither was very easy to like therefore not an interesting story.	2004-05-25
US	50460693	R23ZIGH9HKS6DI	082177414X	634312115	The Wedding Affair (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	not that interesting	I have to admit to being disappointed in this story.  It had all the makings for a terrific regency/historical love story but failed on many counts.  Our heroine, Felicity Merriwether, got pregnant while engaged to be married to Captain Anthony Sheridan, but he left for Spain/France in the Army before knowing she was having a baby.  When she wrote to him that she was with child and wanted to come join him, he apparently bled all over her letter so could not make out what she was writing about except that she wanted to come to Spain to join me so he told her to stay in England not knowing why she wanted to come to him instead of waiting.  She thought he knew she was pregnant but did not care.  Soon after he finds out she married someone else while engaged to him without telling him.  Tony finally comes home 6 years later and she is a widow and he is involved in a murder investigation.  There really is no sexual tension between them because she, Felicity, refuses to except or understand that Tony did not know she was pregnant.  She basically refuses to except his story.  Which does not really make any sense - didn't she love him at one time?  Was he not trustworthy enough for her to lose her virginity to? Her husband is portrayed in the book at not being a nice guy but didn't he leave her son, Tony's son not his, his money knowing he was not really his son?  He was not a noble with entailed lands - a Cit really - so he could do anything he wanted with his money.  Might have made more sense for Tony to return to England with Felicity and her son Charles without any funds.  The story of Diana/Meg was not that interesting either. Could have been fleshed out more.  One of the reasons Felicity keeps giving in not marrying Tony now was that men can be dominating and she does not wish to be dominated and her fear is related to her marriage. Well, there are 2 women in the story who seem to have happy marriages indeed so Felicity can not be so stupid to believe all marriages were like hers.	2004-05-20
US	50460693	RXKD98MHYOW9A	0451208595	606864129	Wedded Bliss	Books	1	7	12	N	N	disappointing	Clearly, I am in the minority writing a negative review of this regency.  Yes, this story does contain Ms. Metzger's hallmark use of humor, her distinctive wit, and entertaining style.  So why only 1 star?  The &quot;wit&quot; gets in the way too often in telling the story.  I noticed the same thing about Judith Lansdowne's recent regencies - they try to get too cutsey with dialogue and the situations the hero and heroine find themselves in to be really entertaining.  For examply, Robert and Alissa's lack of marital consumation was not entertaining but boring.  Just as he is about to finally get the job done right - and I mean right at that moment - yes, a sick child comes to the bedroom door. The secondary romance with Robert's sister Eleanor and the Duke are a tad more interesting except the Duke's reasons for deserting Eleanor all those many years ago right at the entrance to the Church are really poor!!!  Would most women be so forgiving??!!! I think not.  Alissa's little sister, Amy, was a washed out character who was really wasted in this story.  Really, who cared about a gal who was always blushing?  While Robert had a heir and a spare, why would he not share his bride's bed in the beginning?  That made no sense.  All in all, a waste of time. Thank goodness I only checked this book out of the library and did not buy it.	2004-05-12
US	50460693	R2KKS9M2Q658C9	0821774239	315109472	Just Impossible (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	disappointing	Judith Lansdowne books have a similar feel to them.  Her characters and dialogue are full of whimsy and this can be fun to read (as in her earlier works i.e. Camilla's Fate) but now her books are just too long and the whimsy factor is frankly tedious.  The Duke of Berinwick is missing an eye - big deal.  In the Regency era, no one would bat an eyelash at marrying a Duke with tons of money whose eye was MIA.  Small pox scaring was all over the place so an eye, covered by a patch, would not have been that distressing.  Also - he talks in what the author perceives as being cute or, again, whimsical, but becomes confusing at times as the reader is like what the heck are you saying!!!!  Julia is rather boring.  Emma too much an empty headed miss to be interesting but Lansdowne always includes empty headed misses in her stories.  This story also had zero sex appeal.  I am not referring to bedroom stuff, just no chemistry.  A Duke who seems as dicked in the nob as Berinwick is not sexy.  Julia came across as cold.  There was a time when a Lansdowne book was eagerly awaited, but alas, that time is over.	2004-05-04
US	50460693	R1FB9KBPME4B7C	0451209974	250700082	AN Encounter With Venus (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	disappointing	I had looked forward to reading this regency.  Regencies about older women and younger men are not very common in the regency circle.  But it was terrible.  When George, Lord Chadleigh, first spies Livy, she is stepping out of her bath looking oh-so-gorgeous.  George was 17 and she would have been 25; ten years later, he is 27 and she 35 and no longer looking like his dream venus.  When he first meets her, he is shocked at how much she looks like a dried up spinster.  The romance between them does not work.  She not only is dried up, but is rude to him - and bossy.  If she had a great personality and was not so sour, maybe, but what was there about her that would would peak his interest? Nothing!!!!  Also, George had promised his friend Bernard that he would be back to London in time to take him to a ball sponsored by the family of the girl Bernard likes and she him.  Bernard is in a wheel chair so meeting women (he is homely as well) had been difficult.  So why in the world would George willingly escort Livy home to Scotland when he was supposed to go home to London to help George get the the ball?  Livy's carriage was coming to get her the next day and that would have sufficied to get her home.  The cover also make Livy more attractive than she is.  This story was just a bore which is too bad - great subject and I hope some other regency writer tries it too but with a better story	2004-04-21
US	50460693	R1GSV8VZBU6L1P	0060092971	763359005	The Seduction of an English Lady (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	oh, please....	You know, I have been having trouble lately finding quality regency/historical novels to read.  This one, with the plot of the famous marriage of convenince thing, was very annoying starting on page 22.  Our hero, Colin Mandland, a war Colonel, buys a home from George, Rolalyn's cousin and real owner of the house she has been living in.  Her father, the Earl, had died without a son of his own so the title and all that goes with it went to the cousin George.  George sells the property to Colin legally.  Colin goes to move into his new home and comes upon Rosalyn.  The reality is that the deed was in Colin's possession as he showed her.  Her companion also told her she recieved a letter from George that the companion forgot to give her so she goes and reads it that also lets her know George sold the property to Colin.  The property was noot entailed.  So all of this is legal; so what does she do?  She slams the door on Colin for him to leave.  So he goes to his brother, the vicar.  Again, unreasonable actions on the part of the heroine seems to many writers and, unfortunately for me, too many readers equal with being entertaining, spunky or smart...which is too bad as it is annoying instead.	2004-02-25
US	50460693	RRRXJXECE79K	0821775650	623382825	Love Match (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	10	N	N	awful!!!!!!!!!!!!!	Gosh, I am starting to realize that all the good regency romances must have already been written.  This story, focused on the oh so popular theme of a marriage of convenience, is almost unreadable.  Our hero, a Duke named Lord Charnwood, marries the inspid and boring Elizabeth.  He figures she won't give him trouble or be troubled by her.  I hate when regency writers try to make the women spunky usually, it seems to me, to make up for them not being attractive so they suddenly appear more intersting to their mates.  Of course, being a regency, they do not consumate their marriage.  As we all know, then the marriage is not legal - even Elizabeth realized that. Charnwood is not likeable nor is Elizabeth.  The author tries to spice things up with the addition of a first wife for Lord Charnwood, a gorgeous French woman whom he divorced.  Apparently, Elizabeth nor her cronnies knew that the eligible Duke had been married once before.  How would that be possible in the gossip capital of London where everything is knows about potential mates? Everything Elizabeth does she says well, Mama said this or Mama said that.  Just Boring!!!!!!!!!!!  This is one author I won't try reading again.	2004-02-18
US	50460693	REKPKWP2SOEWG	0821774514	423062241	A Fifth Avenue Affair (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	uneven	Why in the world would very rich, pretty Clara fall for skinny, sick, out of work Stone?  More to the point, Stone was rarely nice to her.  It really was unpleasant to think that a young lady would allow a man like Stone such physical closeness.  Why let him kiss and fondle her when he was not nice?  Yes, as the reader you understood why he was so cold - India war and all that, but why would she like or love him?  Too implausable for me.  Also, the reason he was so down on himself, making poor decisions in India which resulted in death to the men who served under him, does not make him a better person but rather show an arrogance that is unattractive.	2004-02-10
US	50460693	R3587QBSDLEFE9	0821773917	940791533	The Love-Shy Lord (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	kiddie love	...&quot;Clarissa was returned to the bosom of her family the previous August, 4 months short of her 17th birthday...&quot;<br />I hate regencies that have as their female hero girls under 17.  This story either Clarrissa was just 17 or almost 17. Marcus was older, more worldly.  He himself describes her as homely.  Of course, when one falls in love, ones physical appearance can be enhanced.  But it is foolish to think of a man of his experience falling for a 16 year old or there abouts.  Yuk...	2004-02-03
US	50460693	R3PW4WFEQH8DTV	0451209788	832981665	Under the Mistletoe	Books	3	5	7	N	N	something old and new	Every holiday season I always purchase the regency christmas novella and each year, it is with mixed results that I finish.  Some of the stories are interesting, good and just plain bad.  I ususally like Mary Balough's stories.  I had read 3 of the 5 before, so I was okay with buying it. Sometimes I feel the authors of these short stories do not complete them.  It always seems an extra page would do to complete the story.  For instance, in The Star of Bethlehem, was Estelle pregnant or not?  Why leave it up in the air.  In &quot;The Best Gift&quot;, I enjoyed this story but what happens?  Yes, the Viscount will marry Jane and keep Veronica, but they were both born on the wrong side of the blanket so were they accepted by society and his family?  Even just a paragraph describing their chistmas 5 years down the line would have helped.  I enjoyed &quot;A Family Christmas&quot; best.  I like the Cit and the Noble family intermarrying but more could have been made of the class difference.  All in all, not terrible.	2003-12-02
US	50460693	RAFMG4C9A4PGW	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	1	20	22	N	N	whine whine whine whine...	Gosh - I really did not enjoy this book.  I love Elizabeth George's books but Deborah St. James is the biggest baby and what a schmuck her husband, Simon, is.  He needs to tell Deb to grow up.  Okay - so she can not have a baby. Hello, adopt!!!  It is not like money is an issue for them.  This books was long and made longer by having the reader suffer with the unsufferable (is that a word??) Deb.  Lynley and Havers and their relationship with London is what makes George's books so entertaining and interesting.  When she writes a story with boring and silly characters throughout the whole story (like Adrian's Mom)it is just too tedious for words...<br />I wonder what Ms. George has to say to all the critism regarding her leaving out Barbara.	2003-10-09
US	50460693	R2Q0BIR7Q85CKM	0373292554	576110461	Beauty and The Baron	Books	1	5	14	N	N	really bad...	I have to say I am surprised as the 4 and 5 star ratings reviewers gave this book. Deborah Hale is not a bad writer; I have read several of her other books and thought they were okay.  But this story is just, well, stupid. Yes, I know the whole beauty and the beast thing is supposedly fascinating to some women.  Here, in our story, Lucius, wounded in the face (of course) and now lives like a monk and in the dark. His once famously gorgeous face is badly scared and he also has vision issues regarding daylight.  So he has this black S&amp;M mask that covers 1/2 his head.  Now, an eye patch I can live with but this?  It is not romantic to fall in love with someone who you can't see.  Also - in this time period, the regency period, beauty was somewhat irrelevant for many.  Marriages were made for practical reasons and with 1000's scared from small pox and most people with really bad teeth, especially women who averaged to lose one tooth per pregnancy, beauty is indeed in the eye of the beholder.  I could not get into a story where this silly Anglea falls for a masked man. Too gothic...	2003-09-16
US	50460693	R1W4WZTOEBIRM8	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	1	9	10	N	N	Fan:  Skip this one	I read the reviews that wrote that Havers and Lynley were MIA in this book and the books main focus was on Deborah and Simon St. James - who are uninteresting characters in the best of times - but I refused to believe I waited like 2 years for a new Lynley George book and I got stuck with this!  For shame Ms. George - to deprive your readers of one of the great mystery characters, especially a woman, to have come around in a long time.  Hint:  the PBS series is based on Havers and Lynley, not Deborah!!!  Take my word for it George fans:  skip this book as it might put you off for good!!!	2003-09-09
US	50460693	R2QKFOGL38E23V	082177249X	694176925	A Fallen Woman: The Brides of Bath (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	silly	I have to agree with a previous review that mentions that it made no sense for Carlotta Ennis to Marry James Moore, the Earl of Rutledge, an honorable man, and not sleep with him right away.  She could have risked all by not having a legally, binding, marriage. She was more than a bit of a schemer for her to not realize that.  During that time, a MOC was pretty standard and those wives consumated their vows.  Marriage was more about security, standard of living than love.  Carlotta needed safety, money adn in return, James would get her and a heir.	2003-06-16
US	50460693	R1AVQ10SUUXA2U	0821774212	207526336	Just In Time (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	former fan...	There was a time for me that when a Landsdowne regency was coming out, I would count the days until I could run out and buy it.  Then something happened.  The Nightingale series came and with it, for me anyway, went much of the joy and just plain fun I used to find in Judith's novels.  It is funny how many of the reviewers for this book say Judith Lansdowne is back which is an indication, I think, on just how many of her devoted fans feel that she has left in the first place!! Just in Time just is not that intereting a story and really lacks in the romance department.  I do not mind the 40-something romance.  But the real romance and fun that can be found in some of her best books, The Bedevilled Duke, Annabella's Diamond, Balmorrow's Bride and Camilla's Fate, is missing.  These books could be read over and over again and still enjoyed.  I hope that I too someday can say She's Back!	2003-05-27
US	50460693	RT6J85OS70MY5	0843951869	42750780	The Mad Marquis	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Just Awful...	Marriage of convenience stories have been done so many times they need a new take on them to be interesting.  But this one does not.  Yet another story of the virgin bride lusting for her husband, who also lusts for his wife.  It seems our lusting hero, Lord Henry, can not keep his hands off is new bride, Julia. But why?  On page 100, \\"accepting his lips with a curious questing as her supple, big-boned mannish body...\\"  At every turn, Henry thinks she is not attractive.  The author goes out of her way describing all the reasons why Julia is mannish.  So what is up with the attraction thing?  And I did not like Henry.  He refers to Julia is his thoughts at his virgin bride and a virgin bride she will stay.  That is, actually, cruel.  Of course, they get together, but this reader had no respect for Henry or Julia, for that matter.  Also, way to much horse stuff in the book.  Frankly, Julia was a bit batty re. her horses.	2003-05-23
US	50460693	R3TD985KVF43Q	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Billy's Book	II loved Billy Blade. He was the best part of the story. His story, how he came to be in the slums of London, was really good. The problem, however, was Jacinda, who was just a silly, self centered, spoiled girl. At 18, she seemed much younger then that. Actually, Billy deserved better! But Billy's Dad, the mad Marquis, was an incredibly cruel man and the rush to finish the book really does a disservice to the issue of child abuse. One can tell from Billy's dialogue, that he does indeed have a warped perception of his self-worth. In addition, felt unworthy. However, Billy's Dad was over the to cruel. I thought Jacinda, who almost forced Billy's hand to go home after the wedding, was wrong. After all, she spent one evening at a dinner staring daggers at him. What he did to Billy was almost murder. The Mother too was a creep. It was unrealistic to expect him to go home because his Mother wrote his Dad was sick and dying. Then...silly little Jacinda seems to see though the ...., and calls his cruel taunts his attempt at friendship. Then she tells him to tell Billy he is loved. If I met someone as cruel at the Marquis, my skin would crawl and I would not be as accommodating as she was. Also - did they ever go on their honeymoon? Children?	2003-05-21
US	50460693	R3NHSK0QS221SR	0821773763	768313207	A Scandalous Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	3	N	N	predictable	Yet another regency with a rake who is obsessed by a wife who is a shrew and vastly immature.  There is no earthly reason why Lord Claredon, Julius, would find Victoria mallory attractive.  Her personality fails on all accounts.  Debbie Raleigh takes great pains to paint a vivid picture of all the attractive physical qualities of Julius.  And also lets the reader in on why perhaps Victoria is such a managing female.  But no rake of Julius's stamp would take Victoria barring him from the marriage bed.  Pages of the story are devoted to Julius lusting after his wife, going crazy at the sway of her walk.  How stupid.  Again, her personality, her over the top poor treatment of him lends the reader to ask what in the world would he find attractive about her to begin with?  She is not an incredible beauty, he notes.  Just a silly ploy by the writer to keep her heroine a virgin.	2003-05-13
US	50460693	R3GISYT56EUPVO	0821773763	768313207	A Scandalous Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	2	N	N	fussy and silly	Yet another married, virgin bride.  It is just not believable that any noble would marry and have no plans to having an heir.  Any regency gal who was raised in the Ton would know that is almost her primary role.  Both Victoria and Claredon would know that any marriage  not comsumated would not be binding or legal.  I wait for the day when some smart regency writer will incorporate that certain truth into a much better story.  Also - Victoria's constant anger towards Claredon was overdone.  He did not know who she was when he went to her room; she was the one using a false name and he did marry her.  She was the real problem.  Again, regency authors try to make their chits feisty, like that is supposed to make them interesting or smart when all it does is make you want to cringe!	2003-05-12
US	50460693	RW0EJ7XA7A0DT	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Actually, 0 stars	This book was awful.  Susan Johnson franky makes sex boring.  I fail to understand her legions of fans.  Come on women = is sex realy like anything she writes?  Her sex scenes are the same in every single story I have read; a well endowed, tall, dark man makes his women wet and ready before a hand is laid on her.  All Sam really does is penetrate Alex Ionidesen.  And that is is - all they have is sex, penetration.  If that was my husband, I would buy him a technique book!	2003-05-06
US	50460693	R2OHFLZROHWGXX	082177249X	694176925	A Fallen Woman: The Brides of Bath (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	too flawed	James Rutledge has had a crush on Carlotta Ennis, wife of his captain, for years.  Her husband died with James feeling responsible, so when he inherited a title and money, he tracks down the widow and her son to make amends.  Carlotta is still grieving it is true but not for her husband, but her lover, Gregory Blankenship, who married another.  I gather there were two previous Brides of Bath books, which include the story of how Gregory marries Glee and leaves Carlotta.  But not having read that book, one has to wonder why he did leave the beautiful Carlotta.  It was not as if she would made a poor choice of a bride; she was respectable.  So why make her his mistress and not wife?  Again, maybe it is in the other book but it could have been alluded to in this story as it would help the reader.  Anyhow...James turns up and befriends both she and her son (who she had sent to live with her grandmother from age one month to 6 years).  Now all reunited, James asks her to marry him and she accepts as she is desperate for money. And what better source of money than a honorable man?  My issues with this story are many, but major ones include James incredible love for her.  Sure - she was gorgeous and sexy, but even he must have realized she was less than a stellar mother.  Of course, she improves under his guidance.  And while she certainly is valuable once they move to his family seat, in Bath before marriage what exactly did he love about her?  And all the signs of her being cast from society were there to read he was too stupid to question all these things?  He who everyone says is so intelligent?  Also, Carlotta is marrying him for money and safety and wisks him from Bath before he can hear about her past.  Yet, she won't sleep with him?  How is that?  If she was so concerned about money and having a place as his wife with her son taken care of, she would make darn sure it was a fully binding and lawful marriage.  A marriage that goes unconsummated would not hold up incourt so it was too illogical for someone as smart and as calculating as Carlotta to miss that.  Why would she risk it?  In the end, once James finds out, he runs into Greg who lies and says he did not sleep with.  What was that all about? Greg comes across as an idiot.  Made no sense.  All in all, too flawed to not be disappointing.	2003-05-02
US	50460693	RGI4VCQ1P4AC7	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	3	7	N	N	disappointing ending	I also loved the first two thirds of the story; the ending was poor.  Harvey's death was disappointing as well as Susie not being found, but perhaps alluded to being found in the future.  Also, if Ruth really had sixth sense, why could't Susie help point her to her own body parts?  Hey - if Susie could come on down for a quickie with Ray, why not fill him in?  She could talk, after all.  That made zero sense.  And her charm bracelet being found in the end was unnecessary. After all, the person who found it had no idea whose it was thereby...not evidence as to what happened to Susie.  I found the author leaving Susie's not being found disappointing, to say the least.	2003-04-25
US	50460693	RSBZ1Y1XSANUC	0743223543	460904465	The Bone Vault: A Novel	Books	1	9	12	N	N	Could it be any more Boring	While, after five books, there is finally the potential of a relationship between Alex &quot;Blondie&quot; Cooper and Detective Mike, this book was sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo boring!  I had to struggle to finish it.  The whole plot with the museum was boring.  I live in NYC and visit the museums frequently but this just did not hold my interest.	2003-04-09
US	50460693	R1N6ADZZU4O19Y	0843951117	244593378	The Willing Wife	Books	1	5	13	N	N	hated it.	...  This book was just awful.  The plot has already been summed up.  Having to wade through over 250 pages for some action was boring.  I fail to understand Nicolaa.  ...  Nicolaa was just plain ridiculous in refusing to believe that men could not love..... Sure, as a reader, you might get some glimpse of why she was so cold, but how could he?  He more than tried to please her, yet she was unaffected.  Her coldness, her reckless disregard for the women in her \\"court\\" and not making marriages for them, made her unlikeable. ...Nicolla's not so very logical views were to distorted to be realistic.  Poor Rowland.  Daine portrayed Nicolaa to severe in her inability to imagine that love was a possibility. Her very coldness was a turn-off for this reader.	2003-01-16
US	50460693	R3RYG9EDETC42U	0451205898	359119946	Second Thoughts (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	too much magic	Ms. Heath write well and is great when it comes to descriptions of places and characters.  And she does not shy away from married couples having relations, without going into much detail, which is taboo in most regency romances, unfortunately.  Why most regency authors think that regency misses are cold in unrealistic to me. But this story did not work for me, unlike a similar story, Marigold's Marriages.  This story is just too overloaded with magic.  The cukoo bird was everywhere and it was annoying following Kate ahd Lord Carismont trying to have a conversation with flying colors, lights, fire places, birds, voices...too much of a distraction so I really lost interest early on.  After all, as one reviewer pointed out, not much romance to be discovered when the romance is provided, in the end, via magic.	2002-12-12
US	50460693	R2KOM1BYW43NBT	0821773747	4975068	A Proper Marriage (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Vastly Entertaining	I really enjoyed this story.  Adam, the vastly proper husband of the once vibrant and dashing Adele, is that rare hero in romance novels who is rich, handsome and does realize fairly early on that he has made a mistake or two in dealing with his young wife.  The visiting vicar helps on that score.  Adele too learns to appreciate the husband she thought was too proper.  My complaint would be that Adele was too immature and really did make for a silly wife early on.  But she changes her tune pretty early on so it was not an endless reading of mistakes and missed chances.  Good story and I look for the rest of the trilogy.	2002-12-12
US	50460693	R3AF0H4QDUPDUP	0821771760	345513720	A Rather Necessary End	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Warming - not a romance!!!	Just a quick work of advice:  this is really not a romance, but a mystery and not a very interesting one at that. Romance is in the background.  SInce this is the first in a series of stories about the couple solving mysteries, I would save my money and wait for the last book to come out since I would guess it will be during that book that the romance will really bloom.	2002-12-03
US	50460693	RNWCS1MQI10CU	0743419162	604430790	Fanning the Flame	Books	1	5	7	N	N	boring...	This book was boring.  I like some of Kat's books.  For me, they are hit or miss.  Frankly, the tortured hero and the virgin but passionate miss are getting boring.  The &quot;issue&quot; at the end of the story should have been settled early on.  Extreme sub-par story.	2002-11-26
US	50460693	RAGPAEGOCQK5Z	0312962436	994782512	Nothing But Velvet	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Keeper	Some romance novels are keepers because they can be read again and still enjoyed.  This is one of them.  I have read several Kat Martin books and perfer her historicals, though I was vastly disappointed in \\"Nothing but Velvet's sequel, \\"Silk and Steel\\", which is the story of Lucien, Jason's friend and helper in clearing his name.  I am not one who gives 5 stars often; to me, a 5 star rating is perfection, and this story did have a flaw or two, but still, I feel, a much better read then tons of romance books in stores today.  Jason and Velvet make a great couple.  In so many romances, the heroine is always fighting or tries to deny her sexual needs.  That, thankfully, is not the case here.  Velvet finds Jason as sexually appealing as he does her.  I liked Lucien and he is a noble friend to Jason.  At times, however, he is much smarter than Jason and so sometimes Jason appears to be like the classic gorgeous but dumb guy!  Of course, to survive what he had to takes brains as well as brawn.  My main issue with this story is the ending.  Jason ends up with a noose around his neck and is saved.  Well, that is okay but it is so rushed.  It is like, hah?  What is happening?  Why is Lucien rushing to save him; what happend to bring the law down to save him when he was just convicted?  It was too rushed and unclear.  I hated when Velvet gave money to the poor semi-blind man and he tells her that her husband was innocent, yada, yada, yada.  That was stupid.  So the end was not great.  I liked the epilogue, though.  Nice way to end, knowing they had children, etc.	2002-11-25
US	50460693	R2NROLEQML21SL	0451205510	705895903	A Reckless Bargain (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	sort of blah...	The other reviewers did a nice job describing the plot so I won't do it again.  I just wanted to add that I had no issue with Nicholas trying to seduce Kit.  Sometimes regencies are too sweet, the heroine being too innocent.  Kit here knows a thing or two which is interesting in a regency.  However, Nicholas seems a bit slimmy.  A rake sure, most regency heros are rakes. So that is nothing new.  But the impression of him being a slim never goes away.  And, yes, a week to prove to Kit that he is trustworthy?  The Duke and his wife and sister-in-law are also typical, the evil nobles and all that.  So really, nothing new in this book.	2002-11-22
US	50460693	R2Q8RYFJKIHBPH	0821773607	399218586	The Impertinent Miss Bancroft (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Romance?	I have to wonder if I missed something reading this book. Was it a romance????  While the author tries to be clever in making our heronie feisty, yes, yet again another feisty smart heroine, the theft story takes front and center over the romance.  That is too bad.  I don't mind mysteries in romances, however, let us at least have a romance too!	2002-11-22
US	50460693	R23DDPB1UPBC37	0821773232	568497750	A Gift For a Rogue (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	good with one issue	This is a much better book then Ms. Park's previous efforts.  Alex, an Earl, has decided, after some years of being a widow, to marry again.  He has become a confirmed rake, but a likeable one.  However, he discovers he is no longer considered eligible due to his rakishness.  In steps Belle, his sister-in-law Grace's friend.  She too is a widow with a small daughter and for the past 5 years, as sponsored misses for the season and has an excellent reputation.  She is also going to possibly sponsor Alex's 2 wards for their upcoming season.  He sort of hires her to help him polish his act so he can court a potentional wife.  He holds a holiday house party and together they invite many eligible ton figures and matrons to see how well he has shinned up.  Of course, they fall in love and are really a nice couple.  He even becomes a more doting father on his two boys due to her influence.  The extra characters in the story add to the  mix in a positive manner.  My main issue with the story is Belle herself.  After being seduced 5-6 years earlier and having to marry as she was &quot;increasing&quot;, she swears off rakes.  She will not marry Alex since he is one. Well, that is true. But was so obvious was the fact that for all the years he was married, he loved his wife and was a faithful husband.  So one would conclude he became a rake almost to drown his sorrow.  Since he had been a faithful and loving husband once, why would he not again be one to a new love?  While others in the story, including their own children, were trying to tell Belle he changed for the better, this one omission of his past marital fidelity, which should have been mentioned and discussed, was not and it was very annoying...	2002-11-18
US	50460693	R1OFYZECU6N2C5	0373290837	576911778	Lady Sarah's Son (Harlequin Historicals #483)	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Stupidity runs rampid in this tale	I find it hard to believe so many women gave this story 5 stars.  I guess it is like the old perfect 10 in gymnastics, too many until people wised up.  I have no complaints with the writing of this story.  It is a darker regency, no belle's in their evening glory, giggling, at Almacks. But the premise of this story is just to ridiculous to believe.  Lady Sarah, whose younger sister ran away from home to marry against her father's wishes, gets a message from the same sister to come to her aid.  She dies in childbirth and makes Sarah, the older sister, promise she would not tell the real story of her bastard son's birth.  And Sarah does this at a ridiculous cost.  She breaks off her engagement to a man off fighting because she realized no one believed that the boy was not hers.  Like dahhh...4 years later, her former love returns a wounded war hero.  She offers herself in marraige to save his estate and to give Drew, this boy, a father.  He excepts but it is a marriage of convenience.  Why in the world would he agree to that?  Why go through the bother of mending his estate when he would have no one to pass it on to?  Seemed crazy.  And why in the world would Sarah refuse to tell him the real story?  Hello Sarah, your sister, a child herself, is dying in childbirth.  It was the sisters mistake, not Sarahs, and she kindly took the boy in but the point - not to betray her sister - was way overplayed to the point of stupidity, hers.  I am sure her sister would have not minded her telling the story to the man she was to marry.  He would never have deserted Sarah.  AFter all, she was a virgin so obviously not her son!!!  So it was all incredibly stupid.	2002-10-16
US	50460693	R36L9GND99DGP0	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Really Fun Read	I am a grad student in european history and loved this book.  Of course, it is not totally historically correct; as pointed out, Mary is the older sister, not younger, and Henry was born before her daughter.  But the impression of romance - correct, from what historians can tell, is true about her marriage with William, her second husband.  They did live happily ever after, as far as one can tell.  Story, while a long book for some, I read in two sittings and will read again.  What a great movie this book would make!	2002-09-18
US	50460693	R2MPR0R2COXBZB	0821771809	229635486	His Heart's Delight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	ending subpar	Tregatt pretty much sums up the plot well.  I will just add that while the book was, at times, entertaining, there were issues. What exactly do they all look like?  I know exactly what Christy's sister, Joanna, looks like as well as her intended.  Physical descriptions were too vague for me.  Christy also had a never ending supply of giggles.  Was that supposed to make her appear more interesing or fun loving?  It was rather boring and made her appear flighty and younger than her 17 years.  But the biggest disappointment is the ending. Lord Morgan Braedon declares his love but Christy, after a moment, also declares her love, but the story does not end with them planning a wedding but rather Morgan declaring that &quot;I am going to wait until you are ready to accept the future but I am going to be impatient&quot;.  What?  While, as readers, we can assume they will get together, leaving it unspoken is really cheating the reader.  The reader had to wade through 250 pages to an incomplete ending.  Not well done.	2002-09-06
US	50460693	R7F9NQBYJVCK0	0821770403	199729728	Belle Of The Ball (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Really, really, bad...	Wow - getting through this book was painful.  I have read many bad regencies but this (almost) takes the cake.  I have no issues with the writer, Donna Simpson, making this story a bit more contemplative then typical regency fare.  I love when regency authors try new and different things as regencies, in general, have grown old.  Issue here is that Arabella Swinley, the awful, mean but oh so beautiful cousin from \\"Miss Truelove Becksons\\" must marry and marry fast as the family has no money left.  Okay - where did the money go?  Neither she or her Mother seem interested in finding out.  If Arabella is so smart, wouldn't she try to figure it out?  Arabella's best friend, Eveleen, the really interesting person in the story, disappears and no mention is made of that either.  Where did she go?  This book was written in 2001 and as we grow closer to 2003, no follow-up to her disappearance is yet on the shelves.  That is not appreciated by this reader.  What is the point of leaving so many loose ends?  I am thinking...Miss Simpson needs a new editor or reader.  Arabella meets handsome, wilde Marcus Westhaven, who is in town to claim his inheritance.  Arabella is does not know that it is a big one so contemplates marrying an old geezer for money.  Not that unusual from those days.  However, the author goes on and on and with such drivel as what follows:<BR>\\"But it was not right that a blooming girl like Arabella should wed this man, this cretinous old aristocratic lout.  He refused to believe she held him in any affection.  No, she was going for the biggest money pot she could find. And he did not know why he cared. If she was as money-grubbing as all that, then he should just abandon her to her fate.  But he couldn't.  And he wouldn't.  Whether she liked it or not, she had a champion.  He would save her from herself, and from making a mess of her life, if he could.\\" <BR>Geeze - Marcus, get over it!!!  Sure, she was pretty but so rude to him why would he be interested? Why???  It makes him into a doormat, frankly.  It defies logic.  That is the basis of the problem - Arabella consistently shows her mean side to him yet he comes back for more.  It can only be he has fallen for her face and figure, not her inner beauty as she does not display any!!!  No real man, in his right mind, would be bothered with her.	2002-08-14
US	50460693	R37VQVQPKWUIVJ	0373292074	250304136	Her Dearest Sin	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Where was the romance?	Perhaps because there was so many things going on outside of a budding romance that the romance aspect, for me, was lost.  I like both characters but I never got a firm grip as to what they actually looked like or why they got together.  There did not seem to be much relationship development.  How disfigured was Sebastian anyway? Pilar is nice enough, proud enough, etc, etc, etc.  But I found no sizzle between the two.  I hope their son, in the next installment, finds a bride with more fire.	2002-07-23
US	50460693	R2522EVA1CIVC4	038080901X	564087049	The Bride Sale	Books	1	14	26	N	N	Boring...	Gosh - how many ways can I say boring?  This is a historical novel, it is not supposed to be one of the typical sweet regency romances that Ms. Hern writes.  Only this is really a longer version of a sweet regency.  The book is 375 pages of sweetness.  Verity is sweet.  Her love for the dark forbididng Lord Harkness is sweet, his feeling that he is too crazy/dirty to offer his love is sweet.  Yada, yada, yada...I don't know - the village folks are terrified of him yet no one leaves.  He gives them homes, jobs, food and they are cruel to him.  And he stands for this?  His mother-in-law, well, she is a nut case and he puts up with it?  Yes, there is the whole guilt thing but did anyone else note he never, ever mentions his dead son? Does he visit the grave?  It was like a non-event.  And he is Lord of what?  Is he an Earl, Viscount, what??  Only diehard sweet regency readers should read this one.	2002-07-23
US	50460693	RQ04DYOE6PRLW	082177039X	230895506	Miss Truelove Beckons (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	4	N	N	boy this story dragged	I really thought this story was so-so.  The characters are all so ordinary.  Anyone who reads regencies knows these characters well: the handsome hero, who is wounded on the inside and outside; the selfish beauty; the silly, pompous friend; the scheming prospective mother-in-law; the incredibly, naive, sweet heroine and the mother who only wants what is best for her child, who goes about it in the wrong way.  Yep - that sums up our story here.  Nothing new in this story. No clever writing or characters.  Just so bland.  Obviously, the author takes pains to make Arabella, Drake's (our hero) perspective wife, both mean and, underneath her selfishness, actually nice, as I am sure she too will have her own story.  Almost every page has a moment where Truelove bites her tongue over something Bella says.  Please...while she might be a Vicar's daughter does that mean she has to be a doormat?  Also, Drake's Mom.  She proclaims that she wants him to marry and be happy.  She is concerned for his mental health.  Yet, even after she witnesses the peace he has with Truelove, she tried to get him to ignore True and make a match of it with Bella.  Why?  Sure, True was not a Baron's daugher but she was respectable, noble blood in her veins.  Any real Mom, seeing how happy he was with her, would have pushed True in his path, not out of it.	2002-07-17
US	50460693	R1KWU1UGVX99YH	0451201671	415828245	A Regency Christmas Eve (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	10	N	N	Disappointing	The Regency Christmas anthology that comes out each year is a treat.  However, this year, the stories are rather boring. The problem with anthologies is that there usually good stories and bad and one just hopes the good outweigh the bad. Not in this case.  Boring, boring, boring and sooooo unromantic.	2000-10-31
US	50460693	R391ZD8ZX9WO25	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	1	20	31	N	N	Expected better	Am I the only reviewer who did not think it very admirable for Daphne to deliberately try to have a child, knowing Simon did not want one?  And they she blames him??? I was amazed.  Simon, who had a stuttering problem as a child, is a dark, brooding man who does not want to get married as his own childhood was awful.  He is afraid to pass on his &quot;defect&quot; or perhaps fears too he will be a father like his father, which was not good.  Daphne and Simon hatch a plot together to fake an engagement to a) have the women leave Simon alone and b) this will somehow make Daphne more marketable on the marraige mart.  The story is okay the first half but, once married, is not very good.  Can you please explain to me how it would be possible for Daphne, practically raised in the stables, is so ignorant about marrital relations?  And she leaves Simon, thinking she might be pregnant with a Duke's heir, after she tricks him.  I thought that was so shabby.  And how in the world could her brother, Anthony, fault Simon for her leaving him?  That too was illogical and was one of the many reasons the book was a loss.  Simon frankly deserved someone better than Daphne.  She should have gone to him and apologized, not the other way around.	2000-10-31
US	50460693	R1V16643BT59V2	0821766074	567421019	Lady Serena's Surrender (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Disappointing	In short, Serena, who was previously engaged to Ian, who dies, marries Ian's brother, James.  Ian, on his deathbed, was making a request to Ian regarding Serena, but before he finishes, he dies.  Serena is one of the most insecure women I have read in a regency. She spends practically the entire book trying not to fall in love with her husband.  Why, is the logical answer.  I think it be really be the thing to love one's husband. And there was no reason for her not to. Just her insecurities and weird characteristics that got in the way of the story.  Pass this one by	2000-10-31
US	50460693	R333143P2VB8WK	0821766740	201673319	Lady Delafont's Dilemma (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	0 stars if possible	While it seems that most romance novels, especially regencies, have one or two misunderstandings in the book to keep the central romantic couple apart, this book was just unending with the misunderstanding. For a couple to be so in love and not even discuss the situation in some fashion was just plain silly.  And as a reader, very frustrating.  And why did not any of the other people milling around in the story step in?  It just did not work.  Page after page it just baffled me that they were separated and for what?  It just turned me off to the whole story.	2000-10-31
US	50460693	R2828GW2FZ1IL8	0380786443	774233488	Beast (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	1	8	16	N	N	0 stars if I could...	... I have rarely disliked a heroine as much as Louise, a much sought after beauty, who must go off to Europe and marry a disfigured, famously ugly Charles.  I thought it was sort of creepy to fool Louise by always being in the dark. ...  And, again, I found nothing likeable about Louise.  Perhaps a romance with an 18 year old girl who really behaves more like a 14 year old was a bit immature for me.  After all, I am 31 years old...	2000-10-24
US	50460693	R2IXNH0IL90MYZ	0425174816	437954918	My Fair Lord	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Maybe I missed something...	Caroline must marry by her 25th birthday or lose the estate of father left her.  It seems that ever since her 18th birthday and a prank she pulled alleging a ghost at the house, all her prospects for marriage have fled.  If she does not marry, the house goes to her nasty brother George and his even nastier wife.  So, with the help of her Uncle Teddy and her campanion, Amanda, she had delivered to her a horse thief from the goal and decides to marry him.  She figures with the help of Teddy and Amanda, they can turn him from a seven dial thief to a gentleman.  Along the way, she falls in love with him and he learns the role of a gentleman in surprising time.  I know one must suspend belief in order to enjoy some stories, but this was tooooooo far fetched.  Then he turns out to be an Earl?  And his grandmother goes along with his return, after all those years of snobbery, just like that?  Lucas was a cutie, Caroline naturally pretty, but there was a lack of sexual tension between them.  Rather mudane, I would say.	2000-10-19
US	50460693	R9QHVICXRROUJ	0743407059	568855770	The First Time	Books	2	12	17	N	N	pathetic	I read all the glowing reviews after I read the book.  And I too read the book in one sitting.  So why not 5 starts like everyone else?  Mattie and Jake married when they were in college after dating 2 months or so because Mattie was pregnant.  She tells Jake she is pregnant just after he tells her he wants to cool it. After 16 years of marriage and a daughter, Kim, she once again discovers he has been cheating.  Apparently throughout the 16 years he has been cheating.  And she always ignore it.  Always.  She gets into a car accident and he practically brings her home from the hospital, battered and bruised and then telsl her he is leaving her for another woman.  What a schmuck!  And her friend the doctor, Lisa?  Lisa calls Jake in, knowing he left Mattie for another woman, when she needs to give Mattie the deadly diagnosis of Lou Gehrig's disease.  I did not like that.  Lisa had no right to do that to Mattie.  So, Jake decides to leave his lover and come home to be with Mattie not because he loves her but because he thinks it is the right thing to do. Throughout his marriage, he avoided her and his daughter.  When he comes home, he does the same so finally Mattie says to leave  as she does not want to spend the remaining months of her life with someone who does not love her.  Then she says, he can stay if he can pretend to love her.  Geeze, that was awful.  To have so little self love that you would ask that was awful.  Ask someone to pretend to love you?  I would never want that for my daugher.  Or anyone of my family.  Yes, I can hear all those women who game it 5 stars saying that he did fall in love with her in the end.  I guess.  My pity was for Mattie.  I would bet the house Jake would go back to Honey when Mattie died.  He was a creep and Mattie deserved more.	2000-10-19
US	50460693	R2AFKVZGYQL25V	0380802686	126377001	A Rogue's Embrace (Restoration Series, Book 2)	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Awful...	Sir Richard Blyth, who lost his family's estate while he was out of the country with the king when the king is exiled, is told by this same king to marry Elissa, whose husband was the person who bought Richard's family estate, as a way to regain his home.  Several things are wrong with this book.  For starters, Richard was the heir to the family's estate so how could any transaction of sale be legal if it was done without his authority?  It was his to sell, not his uncle's.  Besides that, as a reward for Richard leaving England with the king and his support, wouldn't you think a king could get his home back?  So the king forces Elissa to marry Richard.  So now Richard can go home, of sorts.  For Richard is not legally the owner nor would any children of his and Elissa become the new heir as she already has a son.  Then Richard is forced to sign the marriage agreements moments before the wedding without reading it.  It bascially emasculates Richard, gives him 0 dollars and no authority as his wife's advisor or any say so in the running of the estate.  Please, the king would not have the ability to overturn that agreement either?   Then, it seems that Richard's parents were orgy loving folks.  And everyone from his old neighborhood, including Richard, thinks he is evil because of that.  And, someone is trying to kill Elissa's son and she tells Richard that she thinks it is!...	2000-10-17
US	50460693	R287TPJ4SC6147	0373290276	675110448	The Last Rogue	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Awful	I have read several of Deborah Simmons books have they are ususally very good.  This one, however, was awful!  Raleigh with is a dandywith a capital &quot;D&quot;.  While visiting a friend, he, by accident, compromises his friend's sister-in-law, Jane, one of the most humorless, dour, sour, unattractive women in regency history.  There is nothing, I repeat, nothing, likable about Jane.  Jane so resents her husbands easy going manner and effortless grace and good looks that she, throughout the entire book, is nasty to him at every turn.  What, I ask, is romantic about that?  Frankly, Raleigh deserved much better than Jane. It defies logic that Raleigh would fall in love with Jane, not because she is that all that attractive, but because of her personality.  Yuk.	2000-10-17
US	50460693	REAIISPUJRRCO	0446606944	931288665	Someday Soon	Books	1	0	4	N	N	So disappointing	How could a romance book, written by Joan Wolf, be disappointing?  Read this and you will find out.	2000-10-16
US	50460693	R9AV46R2XLSX6	0380802899	89425013	Never Trust a Rake	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Awful!	Boy, this was one of the worst books I have ever read!  Louisa, a man-hating woman, by accident rescues Gabriel Sinclaire from the hangman.  She was there to rescue another woman who was to hang.  Gabriel was to hang for the crime of raping nuns in a nunnery!  oh, and it was the testamony of the nuns that do Gabriel in.  Of course, he was innocent.  He was there only on a bet - to obtain a snippet of hair from the head of a virgin.  Well, a nunnery sounds good.  One wakes and all hell breaks loose.  The nuns lie to send a man to his death?  Then at the end of the book, they become his friend?  hello - he almost died!  Louise is an idiot.  She was married for 6 hours to a man who wanted in marital rights in a rather brutal way.  She hates men and after the endlessly nasty way she treated Gabriel, I was at a loss as to why he was even interested in her.  The love scene was not even all that interesting.  The first time, in the stable, when she approachs Gabriel already naked to &quot;give herself to him&quot; so that he might help her rescue some more women, was creepy.  I don't like her at all and I did not, in the end, care for him either.  Zero chemistry.	2000-10-04
US	50460693	R200U5GMU3HU72	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	1	7	21	N	N	Hated it by the end	Whatever reedeming qualities this book had were ruined by the last several chapters (that seem to never end)in which Jane, our heroine, refused to except Jocelyn, our hero and Duke, back into her life.  Jocelyn was mad at Jane and lashed out at her because she masqueraded as a serving girl to hid her true idenity, an heiress on the run from an evil cousin.  She also becomes his mistress.  Jane refuses to except his apology and really is mean.  I was hoping he would meet someone else.  Oh, yes, Jane was also was mad at Jocelyn made her fall in love with him!!!!  It was so juvenile.	2000-09-25
US	50460693	R34XXI7PWKKDRV	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	1	11	23	N	N	Ludicrous	There were parts of this book that were enjoyable, especially for a regency.  I am a bit tired of &quot;sweet&quot; regencies where women seem to be lacking in sexuality, though the men seem to have an excess of it.  In this book, we see the development of a relationship, both in and out of bed, between Jocelyn, a Duke, and Jane, a heiress running from the obligatory evil cousin, who is trying to marry her to his heir to get her money.  But the book is absolutly ruined the last 100 pages or so when Jocelyn finds out that Jane is not the maid she she told him she was but rather the daughter of an Earl and a heiress.  Jocelyn hurts her when he discovers her true identity and she, for chapter after chapter after chapter after chapter, refuses to except his apology.  It was totally ludicrous and, for me, ruined the story 100%.  Sure, she was mad at his behavior once he found out. Of course, it was not unnatural that he would be mad as she did deceive him.  But for so long?  I hated the book by the end.  This endlessly exasperating behavior by Jane to punish Jocelyn not only for his treatment of her when he found out her real idenity, but because of her anger at him that he made her fall in love with him.  Hello - what was that all about?	2000-09-25
US	50460693	R7PT2GIXG91F7	0821764675	815244513	One Wicked Night (Zebra Splendor Historical Romances)	Books	1	12	19	N	N	Was this a first draft?	I was bored, bored, bored with this book.  After seeing so many 5 stars  from reviewers, I looked forward to a good read.  Unfortunately, the  formulic plot, inspid heroine, dashing but tortured hero made for a long,  long, read.  Lady Serena, who married an old geezer who can't consumate  their marriage (now in its third year) asks her to take a lover to beget a  heir.  Serena spend practically the whole book prosing morality and that  was boring.  Anyway, she and Lucien meet and get together (physically) in a  good scene but that is about it.  Her husband is murdered by his heir, the  evil Alastair.  Lucien marries Serena and even though it is obvious they  have more than great physical chemistry, the book is one scene after the  other of mis-communication and their inability to relate as a couple.  Oh,  let's not forget Alastair and his never ending sting of attempts to kill  Serena.  Don't adle you brain with this book.  It would have been a much  better book had Serena and Lucien married and tried to build a marriage  together, and then try to deal with Alastair.  In the end, Serena is not  very bright and really, quite the shrew.  Also, Lucien's ex-wife was just  another waste of story line.  Should have left her on the continent.	2000-09-19
US	50460693	R2Z4KMVYX0FKNF	0821766716	767721598	Lord Nightingale's Debut (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	5 Stars?  Forget it...	I must have missed something in this book that people would give it 5  stars. I have to agree with some of the other reviewers who did not like  the book.  I found the story and characters inspid.  The bird, Lord  Nightingale, detracted from what might have been a good story.  I just  don't know.  This book was quite inferior compared to Ms. Lansdowne's  previous works.	2000-09-14
US	50460693	RVODMDVREEMK6	0451150422	829556516	The Diabolical Baron (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Uneven at best	I find Mary Jo Putney's book usually either hit or miss.  This book, while  it had some potential with the mismatched couples, faultered because of  inspid characters.  The match between Caroline and Jason would have bored  him to tears.  Why would he have even pursued it.  It's silly to think that  Jason would have married such a spineless creature as Caroline over horses.   Richard was a pretty boring guy so he and Caroline went well as they were  both boring.  It was a hard book to finish because who cared in the end who  ended up with whom.	2000-08-11
US	50460693	R2R6P3VR98JM9V	0312969937	554035045	Vespers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Beach Book	I really had a good time with this book. Sure, the romance angle was a bit  out of place.  But what a hoot to have Manhattan attacked by big bats.  The  details of that alone are worth the read.  I have recommended this book to  many people and they all game it a thumbs up.	2000-08-10
US	50460693	R2M957GFTBLT4N	0821766716	767721598	Lord Nightingale's Debut (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	8	N	N	Not one of her best...	I ususally enjoy Ms. Lansdowne's books.  This book, however, was a major  disappointment. One thing Ms. Lansdowne usually does well is to describe,  physically, the characters in her books.  In this book, I could get no  clear idea of what the Earl looked like, though he seems rather homely.   Referring to his face was all planes and hollows, well, what is that  exactly? She used the same words to describe Jason in &quot;Camilla's  Fate&quot; but went on to say how terribly handsome he was. She also  describes cousin Eugenia's walk as rolling - and that means what?  The  names, Delight and Serendipity were plain silly.  I could not figure out if  Delight was mentally slow or just had a facial birth mark for a few  chapters.  From the way she was hiding in the carraige, I thought she might  have Down's, especially with all the nonsense of Glorianna's kiss, magic  and being &quot;special&quot;. The romance between the Earl, Nicky, and  Serendipity, did not exactly scream passion.  What little romance there was  in this book was overshadowed by the nonsense of having the bird learn to  sing in order in inherit the money from an aunt who supposedly adored  Nicky. Well, if she so adored him, why that dumb will?  At the end of the  book, Ms. Lansdowne outlines her next book as the story of Eugenia (who is  this book is described as spinsterish and plain) and a marquis who  apparently will get together because of something to do with the bird.  I  gather this story takes place before the marriage of Nicky and Sera.  Too  bad.  The only intereting plot I can think of that would induce me to read  the next book would be to see how Sera and Nicky make out in London,  especially with Nicky's farm manners.  Of course, he now has lots of money  so maybe he would be seen as an ecentric.  And maybe we would find out what  he looked like outside of planes, angles, frog eyes...	2000-08-10
US	50460693	R39ZO9YNDL99NG	0821766295	200375456	Seeking Celeste (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Had promise but...	It was a nice change of pace in the beginning of the book that the two  main romantic characters, Anne Derringer and Lord Edgemere, were attracted  to each other and the attraction was even acknowledged.  But the novel fell  apart for me, and bored me to tears, after page 107 with the ridiculous  situation with Lady Caroline, who claimed that Lord Edgemere must marry her  as he supposedly asked her to marry him when he was in his cups.  Do  regency authors consider regency readers unsophisticated?  That we must  have to read about broken hearted folks to enjoy a romance?  To spend the  next 150 pages reading how miserable Anne and Lord Edgemere are over his  engagement to Lady Caroline is plain stupid.  And one must wait practically  to the last page to have the situation resolved.  Don't waste your time.	2000-08-07
US	50460693	RD3C9CA7NK43G	0451199529	14887786	A Perfect Scoundrel (Lords of Love)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Trite	Quintin and Jane, a bride Quintin did not want, have a disasterous wedding  night. How familiar.  It would have been far more interesting if they had a  rip roaring wedding night instead of the usual maidenly disaster.  What a  bore.  A disappointing read.	2000-08-04
US	50460693	R2I0IG8TLKFIVZ	0451199537	115606246	Jack of Hearts (Lords of Love)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Easy Reading	This book is sort of a sequal to &quot;Red Red Rose&quot;, the story of  Val and Elspeth.  I enjoyed this book more than &quot;Red Red Rose&quot;.   Jack is a dandy of a man and Annie is a very practical lass from Yorkshire  who thinks Jack is too much of a rake to marry.  The fact that Annie keeps  calling and thinking of Jack as a rake, when he clearly is not, was  annoying.  Jack was not a rake, just very charming, and Annie's attitute  towards his charm was silly.  I also wish the book had let us know if Val  and Elspeth's baby was indeed a boy to be named after Charlie.  Again, the  book was easy reading, not great, but enjoyable.	2000-08-04
US	50460693	R2AI0OLIWSWDL4	0451200381	259612325	Saved by Scandal (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Boring Boring Boring	Is anyone besides me tired of romances where the characters marry for reasons not relating to love then spend the next 200 pages in love but unable to tell their partner or have sexual relations?  It is soooo  boring!   I ususally love Ms. Metzger's books but this book was  overdone and it was unreasonable for Galen and Margo to have not  consummated their marriage much sooner. The reasons for the delay just got  plain silly.	2000-07-31
US	50460693	R2QNZUACWE5HN0	0451200365	475233324	The Grand Hotel	Books	1	2	13	N	N	A Big Miss all the Way Around	Anthology series are indeed hit or miss and the stories in The Grand Hotel are a miss all the way around.  Romance and humor was seriously lacking in this book.  There was little to recommend or differentiate one story from  the other.  If I had to pick one story that was at least semi-enjoyable, I  would choose Barbara Metzger's story as there was at least some attraction  and humor between the love interests, though not as amusing as amusing as  Ms. Metzger can usually be.  Why does Carla Kelly always right such somber  romances?  For me, somber and romance are two adjectives that should not  mix in a romance novel.	2000-07-31
US	50460693	R4BRX3LTL9DHN	0821750135	945816297	Amelia's Intrigue (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	14	N	N	Disappointing	After reading the other reviews, I expected another wonderful Lansdowne regency.  I love Judith's book and have read each and every one of them.  This book, which I finally found in a used bookstore after much searching,  I found hard to finish.  I did not find either Anthony or Amelia the least  bit interesting.  Anthony does have a rather sweet relationship with both  his disabled brother, the Earl, and his mother.  Amelia, who I found to be  rather silly and arrogant in her opinions, suspects Anthony of hiding away  his brother for evil intent until about half way through this long and  ploding novel.   There was zero chemistry between the Anthony and Amelia,  unlike, say, Jason Fate and Cammy in &quot;Camilia's Fate&quot;.  Some sex  appeal, even in a Regency, is helpful in furthering along a romantic story.  Also, I did not like the handling of the brother, Georgan, the Earl.  When  he was 9 or 10, he was in an accident and sustained a head would that left  him slow.  Regardless of the time period, 1800's or 1900's, slow is slow  and the sweet relationship between the brothers was really all that was  necessary.  Throwing in a romantic element for the Earl, who obviously  behaves like a young boy was in poor taste.  There would have been nothing  wrong with the brother ending up with Anthony and Amelia. I just did not  find the book interesting.	2000-07-25
US	50460693	R1NGPU5VX3AV8	0451178734	786884821	Dancing with Clara (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	21	44	N	N	Creepy...	Tis is by far one of the creepiest books I have ever read.  I felt like I needed a shower after reading it.  Yuk...Clara, an unattractive, crippled heiress agrees to marry handsome, fortune hunting Frederick, who lies and  schemes, as she feels it is her only shot at a chance to marry.  Frederick  does not really have any friends left as he kidnapped a girl who he grew up  with (that story is written about in a previous regency), before she was to  marry his friend as he needed her money.  Then he has to leave town and he  runs into Clara, an easy target for Frederick to charm with his good looks.   The scenes in bed were awful, Frederick is a creep, Clara is a fool.  The  book was one of the most unromantic books I have ever had the misfortune to  read.	2000-07-14
US	50460693	R35284XVUQ2LXW	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	1	11	16	N	N	This is Love?	Julia, kidnapped by Alec to keep his inheritance, is a reformer who demands half of Alec's inheritance to help her in her Women's Society efforts.  Alec should have sent Julia packing.  She supposedly loved him  for years but instead of behaving in a friendly manner, loving I guess was  too much to ask for, is always a shrew to Alec. Why?  It is logical to  assume that the more shrewish and unreasonable, yes very unreasonable, she  became, the more problems they would have.  This is not a good love story  in that I wish Alec would have found someone else.  Lucien's story, which  comes out in 2001, I look forward to and I hope he choses more wisely.	2000-07-06
US	50460693	R34PTDOU3C514Q	0451200454	710057943	The Nabob's Daughter	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Enough Wild Antics!	Anjalie Cantrell, a rich merchant's daughter from Jamaica, crosses words with an unbelievably arrogant and stuffy Viscount, Lord Chance (who is not even good-looking).  And she tries to make everyone dance to her tune, even  Lord Chance admits to that and not very interesting or reasonable tunes at  that. Was she supposed to be smart because she gets people to do what she  wants?  It was tiring to have to read 230 pages of what is supposed to be  considered wit and good writing.  Anjalie and Lord Chance were both  arrogant, his sister just simply stupid and the plot ridiculous.  Where was  the humor?  Darcy wearing a foot-wide cravat? While most regencies or love  stories in general need a plot that enables the the characters to develop  their relatoinship,one where the hero and heroine constantly aruge seems a  waste of space. THey do not even seem to like each other and why should  they?  I wounld't.  Fortunately, most people do not conduct their courting  that way.	2000-07-06
US	50460693	R3D1YEJY0ST8N1	0451200454	710057943	The Nabob's Daughter	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Enough Wild Antics!	Anjalie Cantrell, a rich merchant's daughter from Jamaica, crosses words with the homely, arrogant and stuffy Viscount, Lord Chance.  Anjalie tries to make everyone dance to her tune.  Even Lord Chance admits to that and,  too bad for the reader, they are not very interesting or reasonable tunes  at that. Is Anjalie supposed to be considered smart because she gets people  to do what she wants?  It was tiring to have to read 230 pages of what is  supposed to be considered wit and good writing.  Anjalie and Lord Chance  were both arrogant, his sister just simply stupid and the plot actually  boring.  Where was the humor?  Darcy wearing a foot-wide cravat? While most  regencies or love stories in general need a plot that enables the  characters to develop their relationship, one in which the hero and heroine  constantly aruge seems a waste of space. They do not even seem to like each  other and why should they?  I wouldn't.  Fortunately, most people do not  conduct their courting that way.	2000-07-06
US	50460693	R2TORSB3JX29F1	0821761536	614745129	The Widowed Miss Mordaunt (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	I thought it would never end....	The reader will have to plod through 250 pages of contrived situations (and not very interesting ones at that) for our &quot;hero&quot;, Jack Durrant, to tell Constance that he, oh yes, loves her.  For some reason, he  did not think he had to and that is why he wants to marry her.  Now,  thankfully, this book which I thought would never end, does.	2000-06-27
US	50460693	R194QITOD8SKFA	0451197941	333179522	The Reckless Barrister (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Tedious in the extreme	This was one of the most tedious books - and poorly told/written - that I have read in a long time.  It took forever to finish and if I had not wasted my money on buying the book, I would have returned it to the Library  after the first 20 pages.  Save your money as I can not think of one  amusing or interesting thing about this book!	2000-06-27
US	50460693	R1BAC49HPNPOUQ	0515091758	926992744	Passing Fancies	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Disappointing	Pippa, our female lead, is blamed for all sorts of events that take place in the home she is visiting, which all turn out badly and wreck her promising relationship with the head of that family, William.  Pippa, as  our lead female character, I found to be either very stupid or a door mat.   She takes the blame for everything!  That is not endearing. It is not  funny. She steals, gets engaged and spends lots of money for members of a  family that are not a) hers or b) appreciative.  Sybil, her friend and  daughter of this family who invited her to visit, is so self-centered that  as a reader I found her behavior towards a friend positively unredeemable.   Pippa needs to get some backbone.  It is not &quot;madcap&quot; to steal,  gamble, etc.  I mean, to get engaged to prevent Sybil from getting into  trouble?  Isn't that a bit silly?  And the man she ends up with, the second  brother, Simon, well, what did he even look like?  Besides looking  disheveled and with dark red hair always falling in his face?  Who knew!    This book was tedious.  Smart female characters are not to be found in this  book.  It is not even vaguely funny.	2000-06-27
US	50460693	R3I6FGVZZQC0KP	0451200039	938953327	The Gold Scent Bottle	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Disappointing	Max Waring, who lost his fiance to his father, returns home after the wars.  Max enlisted after this betrayal by his father.  His ex-fiance, now his stepmother, the beautiful Felicity, invites him home to visit this  father and new stepsister at the family home.  Why would he go to visit  these people?  He goes but feels he must bring along his own fiance,  Abigail Monroe, as a buffer for his feelings for Felicity and his father.   Abigail is not really his fiance, just playing this role to get back an  item that Max has possession of.  Isn't this stretching it a bit?  This  book might make me give up reading Regencies for good.  If your parent  steals your fiance, would you be pleased at visiting their home and saying,  hey, it's okay?   No. This man, Max, went to war to get away from the  situation and could have been killed! As a parent, to do that to your  child, well, was pathetic and so wrong that how could it be forgotten.   Almost as pathetic as the &quot;romance&quot; between silly Abigail and  Max.  This was poorly done.  In fact, the book was poorly done and I  usually like this author.	2000-06-27
US	50460693	R2EE95KNIKUBIX	0821751743	631969974	The Vigilante Viscount (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	doesn't anyone proof these books?	While the story had some promise, Faith, pretty, poor and in trouble, is rescued &quot;from a fate worse than death&quot; (and I leave you to figure that out) by the handsome green eyes Lord Vigilante, Lord Carrington.  But  the story was so predictable and there were several literary mistakes  (wrong names, titles, etc...) that it was not an especially good read.  How  on earth Faith did not realize Lord Vigilante and Lord Carrington were one  in the same was silly.	2000-06-23
US	50460693	R1UBJDUG67XK3S	0449000176	263102702	One Perfect Rose	Books	1	5	26	N	N	Did not like it...	By page 37, Stephen, the Duke of Ashburton who thinks he is dying, lies about who is to pretty (sort of pretty) actress Rosalind, the adopted daughter of an acting family.  Has not this been done before to death, this  hiding of ones noble family lines - why bother again?  It is such a drag to  have to flip pages in a book when the first misunderstanding happens so  quickly.  There will be the &quot;betrayal&quot; she will feel when he  reveals himself.  I also found it ridiculous that a man of his rank would  not set his affairs in order and especially that he would not let his  brother Michael know the situation.  These books are beginning to be very  tedious.	2000-06-23
US	50460693	RQ30PP8F2CI1I	0821765817	287686264	Miss Chambers Takes Charge (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Almost unreadable	Actually, it was unreadable.  One of the worst regencies I have ever read.  Claudia and Rexford were the main love interest.  Rexford is homely and boring, and Claudia is just plain dull.  It also does not make sense that  the estate would have been left divided between the two parties.  Entailed  property can't be divided.  And as Rexford had other places to live, why  was he living there under such circumstances and living in the gate house?   Illogical.  I could barely get through the book.	2000-06-19
US	50460693	R2O8VKI2SO4AFZ	0451408179	980095422	Red, Red Rose	Books	1	3	20	N	N	Not exactly a page turner	I did not enjoy this book at all.  Val, our main romance interest, had such a chip on his shoulder because of his birth and was so dour (the man never smiled) that he was not an enjoyable male lead.  His personalty was  poor, and while he had a terrific body, he was not even good looking with a  huge nose.  Yuk.  And the female main character, Elspeth, homely, too, was  not interesting, either.  I liked Val's brother, Charlie, and James.  But I  would not bother with this one.  Very boring.	2000-06-19
US	50460693	R2R5SM2C87PDOQ	0821756885	615228650	Camilla's Fate (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the Best Regencies I have yet to read	I loved this book and have read it several times.  I enjoy the Regency time period, but have found too many regency romances with silly females characters and was bored.  This book was a wonderful romance with passion  and humor and characters I liked!  I loved Cammy. And Jason is adorable and  wonderfully sweet.  I love when she kisses him in the ballroom.  Sure, we  figure out before the rest who he really is, but was a fun treat to geet  there.  When Cammy assists Jason in getting dressed to rescue the children,  she does not blush or stammer but enjoys the view of him, which apparently  is quite a sight.  I also enjoyed the epilogue which fills us in on the  romance of Clare and Aurora.  My only complaint would be - what happend to  David? He loses the title but we need to know his story so Judith, please  write it!	2000-06-16
US	50460693	R3FPDOSKU3TCN7	0451404459	492297334	Petals in the Storm (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Hard to Finish...	The only character I even liked in this never ending book, wasRobin.  Our two &quot;romantic&quot; figures, Maggie and Rafe, by page140, have kissed heavily several times yet each time she pulls back and say &quot;no&quot;!  What was the point?  She was no maiden.  It was a bore.  And when Rafe suspects Robin of spying, I was ready to throw in the towel and skim to the end of the book.  But I didn't and should have.  All this hand gripping and fury with one another laced with latent desire was way overplayed.  There was not one line of humor in the book.  Passion was negligible because Maggie and Rafe acted so silly.  Too many pointless starts and stops don't necessarily add passion or interest, but create an aura of stuipdity and disinterest!  I had read The Rake, which I enjoyed and then Robin's story, which was okay.  Maybe Ms. Putney does not realize that passion does include humor and also, believe it or not, compatibility. Nothing wrong with having some nice qualities in a hero or heroine! Rafe can take his &quot;Duke's stare&quot; - I prefer Robin!  Have to wonder about Maggie letting him out of her bed.  Don't bother with this book.	2000-06-16
US	50460693	RSE69OB30C2EZ	0821762281	235152948	Annabella's Diamond (Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	not quite as good as some of her others...	I usually love Judith Lansdown'e regencies.  Her characters are usually warm, funny and appealing.  I enjoyed the romance between Bella and Diamond.  I loved the funny situations, especially when the Diamond takes too much medicine.  But I found the \\"mystery\\" in the story too  overplayed and that actually took away from the romance that was so  enjoyable.  Certainly a good read but missed the mark.  Sometimes it is  okay to write a regency love story without all the secondary stuff that  tends to be added to these sorts of stories.	2000-06-16
US	50460693	R2DUBD8D7OPEHM	0821752960	195842908	The Bedeviled Duke	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of her best	I enjoy Judith Lansdowne's regencies because they are funny, light, warm, appealing characters and enjoyable reads.  This one was a delight.  I loved Abbercrome.  What a darling of a man.  His children are a delight and  reading about Olivia with them is fun.  I took this book out of the library  to read it and had to buy it in the end.  It is a keeper	2000-06-16
US	50460693	R32AFA46QC39WK	0821752960	195842908	The Bedeviled Duke	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of her best	I usually enjoy Judith Lansdowne's regencies because they are funny, light, warm, appealing characters and enjoyable reads.  This one was a delight.  I loved Abbercrome.  What a darling of a man.  His children are a  delight and reading about Olivia with them is fun.  I took this book out of  the library to read it and had to buy it in the end.  It is a keeper	2000-06-16
US	50460693	RR5UKF9TSKJL6	0821765353	170323653	A London Flirtation (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Thow the book in the Thames	Let's see, our &quot;heroine&quot;, Marianne Pamberley, is so beautiful that her shallow character, her incredibly self-centeredness and meanness, is overlooked because she is beautiful.  Sir Jasper, who appeared so well  in Ms. King's previous book about Constance, appears as a wimp in this one.   Marianne is determined to take London by storm.  She is beautiful and  well-dressed.  She now has her sister's connections to be a success.   However, she loves to kiss Sir Jasper.  Sir Jasper follows her to London.   Why?  Marianne tells him time and again that she will not marry him.  Real  people do not behave in his manner and yes, I realize it is a romance but  still...Does he not have any pride, intelligence?  Respect for himself?  He  should have fallen in love with Annabelle, who was both pretty and nice,  and have give up his almost stalking behavior of Marianne.  It was creepy.   Another ridiculous plot in this book has Marianne's fiancee, Lord  Crowthorne, so distraught that he is not part of Lord Ramsdell's  (Marianne's brother-in-law)inner circle, that he decides to marry Marianne  in the hopes that by being related by marriage to Ramsdell, he will gain  entrace to this inner circle.  However, it appears that his ticket in was  the fact that he shots Sir Jasper in a duel, in which Sir Jasper delopes,  then confeses to Ramsdell his misery at not being part of this circle and  that gains Ramsdell's respect and welcomes him.  Well, hello...he  practically killed someone!  This book was awful. I did not end up liking  anyone in the story.  I wish I could have returned it back to back to the  book store. There was not one redeeming page of the book.  Don't waste your  time.  It is because of regencies like this book that the hey day of  regencies is fast fading...	2000-06-15
US	50460693	R13U9KMNR4164S	0821765833	926914524	Lord Langdon's Kiss (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	3	12	N	N	Endless drivel of a regency	I thought this book would never end...What a silly story about people I could care less about.  James Mayland, our hero, is a drip.  Nell, our heroine, is sanctimonious, homely and boring.  James' brother, Darcy, is  found kissing James' fiancee after hehad proposed to Nell and was waiting  for her answer.  He says, well, sorry.  That is supposed to be okay?  James  really love Nell, Nell really loves James, Darcy loves James' finacee,  Constance, Constance loves Darcy.  It gave me a headace and this book was  not in the least amusing.  I never even smiled once while reading it!  What  a waste.	2000-06-15
US	50460693	R2RYOOPPFYWWC5	0515114812	154190458	The Accidental Romance	Books	1	9	13	N	N	Don't Bother!	I have rarely read a regency book where the story is so poorly done.  Our main female character, Lucy, is apparently so beautiful that the marked defects of her characters, she hits people, yells at people, is rude,  blames others for everything even when it is obvious it is her own fault,  that it is wondered at that Percy, our &quot;hero&quot;, falls in love with  her at all.  Outside of her face, there was not one redeeming quality about  Lucy.  Percey, while homely, is a very nice man, who Lucy ends up caring  for but why would he care for her?  There was not one scene in the book  where they have any interaction that would lend itself to love.  The book  is is not a plus for women if all they need to be is beautiful.  I mean,  she hits Percy and he just smiles like a simpleton!  Don't waste your time  on this book.	2000-06-01
US	50460693	R2PLFZCNUTE821	0451195183	28135071	The Second Lady Emily (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	what is to like?	Considering that the 18th century is vastly different than our own, this book was a wasted opportunity to show the differences.  How would a 20th or 21st centry miss cope with things such a chamber pot, foods, how about  deodorant and tooth paste!  One would think the Emily/Candace grew up with  none of these things!  What a silly book where no one is especially  interesting.	2000-05-31
US	50460693	R5GC2GWLKEL6S	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	1	11	14	N	N	Absurd beyond words...	I enjoyed the book until Elizabeth discovers the real identity of James then the book become absolutely absurd.  Her reaction to his real identiy borders on psychotic.  While I was pleased to see Blake and Caroline enter  into the story, their treatment of their friend, James, was horrible.  Why?  Blake becomes a parady of a man who lives in Carolin'e pocket.  The story  totally lost me here and I struggled to finish the book.  Of course James  and Elizabeth get together in the end but it took about 100 pages of  stupidity from Elizabeth to get real.  If I was James, I would have gone  back to London and forget about her and his so-called friends.  Boy, was  this book ridiculous.	1999-12-17
US	50460693	R3AE5SBOA6TXWS	0449001717	531683692	Lord Heartless (Regency Romance)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	What a Read!	This book was absolutely delightful.  I found Viscount Hartleigh to be an original, and Carissa, thankfully, not one of those ridiculous missish women regency books seem to favor. The dialogue was wonderful and witty.   This is the book that should have won the 1998 RITA award.	1999-12-17
US	50460693	RXYKGZLAHGDAO	0449002330	363963985	His Grace Endures (Regency Romance)	Books	1	6	10	N	N	What was RITA thinking?	I was so disappointed in this book.  Since it was the 1998 RITA award as best regency, and beat &quot;Lord Heartless&quot; for that win, I was expecting a terrific novel.  Instead, the book drags and the characters act  in such an unrealistic ways.  As far as the Duke goes, our hero, he has no  family or friends.  The heroine, and I use that term lightly, plays at  being a spinster and dressing as a drab.  For some reason, delights in  hiding her beauty.  In the ballroom scene, she behaves in such a manner  that loses me entirely - as well as any interest that she should end up  with the Duke in the end.  He deserved better!  The dukes only friend  betrays him.  He is a miserable man who society now scornes when he did  nothing wrong in the first place!  He should have packed his bags and came  to america.  I usually like Emma Jensen's books. There was nothing romantic  about the book.  Only a creepy feeling at the way society ended up treating  the Duke.	1999-12-17
