US	50475679	R2YBCKZWSUNIDD	1841620351	372769349	Ethiopia, 3rd: The Bradt Travel Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great guide, fairly easy to find	There are few up-to-datea travel books for Ethiopia, but this is as good as any other country guide. The author, Philip Briggs, does a nice job of covering the major tourist attractions as well as focusing on the more quiet areas.  If you are going to Ethiopia, this is a great guide to bring along!	2004-01-07
US	50475679	R1WLCZKJF81UNE	0465070108	859733432	High Noon: 20 Global Problems, 20 Years To Solve Them	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Great intro to 20 global issues	J.F. Rischard does a fabulous job of compiling his knowledge into a great introduction of twenty global issues that the world is currently facing.  As the subtitle indicates, these issues are steadily becoming problems that we, as a global community, must reckon with. Rischard says that they must be solved in the coming twenty years.  <br />Most of the twenty problems are not surprises, but some are.  The author spends time mentioning that his list is not all-inclusive, and that certainly other issues could have been added (or taken off).  But his list is all-encompassing and includes the following classifications and then the actual problems:<br />Sharing our planet: Issues involving the global commons<BR>1. Global warming<BR>2. Biodiversity and ecosystem losses<BR>3. Fisheries depletion<BR>4. Deforestation<BR>5. Water deficits<BR>6. Maritime safety and pollution<br />Sharing our humanity: Issues requiring a global commitment<BR>7. Massive step-up in the fight against poverty<BR>8. Peacekeeping, conflict prevention, combating terrorism<BR>9. Education for all<BR>10. Global infectious diseases<BR>11. Digital Divide<BR>12. Natural disaster prevention and mitigation<br />Sharing our rulebook: Issues needing a global regulatory approach<BR>13. Reinventing taxation for the 21st century<BR>14. Biotechnology rules<BR>15. Global financial architecture<BR>16. Illegal drugs<BR>17. Trade, investment, and competition rules<BR>18. Intellectual property rights<BR>19. E-commerce rules<BR>20. International labor and migration rules<br />Yes, this list is QUITE long and extensive!  But Rischard does a wonderful job of giving a brief (3-5 pages) introduction on each issue.  If you are looking for a more in depth study of these issues, then you should look elsewhere.  But note that the footnotes are great places to look for sources on these issues!<br />In the end, the purpose of the book is to present a brief summary of these problems, then propose a method for world leaders to usein solving the issues.  The author's method is a good one, and he does a nice job explaining it simple terms with &quot;pretty&quot; pictures, charts, and graphs.  My only complaint is that -- although the method is somewhat sound -- the book left me wondering what I could do (an average American citizen) to help solve these problems.  I would have liked a chapter on what types of careers -- or even small daily tasks -- can be pursued to help fight these issues on a grander scale.<br />This book is recommended to any individual interested in economics, finance, environment, health, etc. on the global scale.	2003-07-31
US	50475679	R346A0CNUMESE1	0812062809	699571206	Asap: The Fastest Way to Create a Memorable Speech	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good book for speech-writing method	This book does a great job of presenting in simple and clear terms &quot;how to write a speech.&quot;  The method described is quite effective, as the authors recommend using implausible props to grab the audiences attention.  In the past, I have unknowningly used this method and it is very effective.<br />The strengths of the book are that: 1) The method is simple and easy to follow; 2) The authors use a running example throughout the &quot;how to,&quot; so in the end the reader has gone through an entire process of creating a speech.  In this case, it is a speech that &quot;John&quot; will give at a PTA meeting.  3) The method is repeated several times, including a great summation in chapter 13.  Thus, the reader is able to remember the method without taking many notes.  4) The book provides other useful tips on speechwriting, and has many examples of &quot;props&quot; to use for you speech.<br />This book is recommended to those that make a lot of speeches, as the method presented is one in which you can use it over and over and over...	2003-07-14
US	50475679	R2F49538J3RX0K	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting and light read	Armistead Maupin does a brilliant job in intertwining the lives of nearly a dozen people in his internationally-acclaimed \\"Tales of the City.\\"  The book is quite a quick read, interesting, and also provides a great commentary on life during the 70s.  Maupin, who is himself a homosexual, also does a good job of using the story to paint a picture of the gay community.  Similarly, he does a fabulous job of describing San Francisco and the interesting culture that exists there.  This book is recommended for all, especially those that are looking for an amusing book to read on a nice afternoon.	2003-07-07
US	50475679	R33FDZM8YOS0LM	0312289146	992034516	Notes from the Hyena's Belly: An Ethiopian Boyhood	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting and insightful look at Ethiopia	This memoir by Nega Mezlekia is a great personal account of what life was like growing up in rural Ethiopia during the later part of the twentieth century.  The stories and vivid memories provided by Mezlekia are quite interesting, and help to paint a picture of what life was like growing up in the small town of Jijiga.<br />The author does a marvelous job of intertwining history throughout the novel.  For that reason, this book is recommended to all that are planning to travel to Ethiopia.  But as aforementioned, this book is a great read and is truly recommended to all that are interested in personal narratives.  My favorite parts of the book were the colloquialisms that Mezlekia included.  For example, his description of time is quite hysterical, as he seems to greatly exaggerate the moments that dragged on during his life.  I also found it amusing that &quot;camels don't understand Amharic.&quot;  The description of the flies as part of the community was also quite funny.<br />In the end, the book was a great one and anyone with an interest in Ethiopia should check it out.  At first, I thought the title was a bit of a stretch...then I visited Ethiopia and saw the hyenas firsthand!	2003-07-03
US	50475679	R2SN6B9PHIOZUQ	0673523896	247193995	Agendas, Alternatives, and Public Policies (2nd Edition)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Great, just a little expensive	John Kingdon attempts to answer very difficult questions in his work \\"Agendas, Alternatives, and Public Policies.\\"  What makes an idea's time come?  What makes people in and around government attend to some subjects and not to others?  In short, Kingdon explores how ideas become policy in his 1994 award-winning book.<br />The book makes many interesting conclusions, as Kingdon uses scientific research methods to discuss how ideas become policy.  It is amazing that Kingdon is able to quantify how influential certain groups are to policy formulation and implementation.  In doing this, he looks at the influence of groups in and outside of government.  Kingdon then goes onto his major two concepts of the policy primeval soup and the political stream.  Both of these are wonderful illustrations of how policymaking happens.<br />In the end, this is a great book for public policy students.  My only complaint is that Kingdon is oftentimes too wordy.  It seems that he could have written a much more effective piece by summing it up in a 40-page journal article.  In any event, the book is worth the read, even if some chapters are only skimmed.	2003-01-07
US	50475679	R39H399XYG7XK4	0691090831	85299297	The Presidential Difference: Leadership Style from FDR to Clinton.	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great intro to U.S. presidency	Fred Greenstein explores the leadership style of the presidents from FDR to Bill Clinton in  his piece \\"The Presidential Difference.\\"  In the new edition, Greenstein includes an updated afterword on George W. Bush.  The book is a great introduction to the modern day presidents and is recommended to the amateur historian to the most serious public policy students.<br />The organization of the book is wonderful.  Greenstein spends a chapter on each president.  The format is the same for each chapter.  Each opens with interesting quotes from the respective president, and then goes into a brief biography.  Greenstein then spends time describing the major events of the president's tenure, and closes the chapter with the significance of the president's leadership.  In doing this last bit, Greenstein analyzes five areas of each chief: public communication, organizational capacity, political skill, cognitive style, and emotional intelligence.<br />There are other aspects of the book that are praiseworthy.  Greenstein scatters wonderful pictures throughout; my favorite is of LBJ in the face of Senator Theodore Green.  The appendix is also a wonderful tool, as it in effect shows the resume of each president.  It outlines important life events and information, election results, the political composition of Congress, appointments, staff, and key events.<br />This book is recommended to all as a great introduction the the U.S. presidency.	2003-01-07
US	50475679	R17DEZERBQQZCI	0815769512	374332511	The White House Staff: Inside the West Wing and Beyond	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Great White House reference	\\"The White House Staff: Inside the West Wing and Beyond\\" serves as a wonderful organizational guide of the White House, principally describing the responsibilities of the major policy offices and how the senior personnel discharges these responsibilities.  In doing this, author Bradley Patterson makes his major argument that policy implementation and coordination is being drawn away from line departments and centralized in the White House.  <br />From national security advisor to press secretary, Patterson does a great job describing in detail what each position does.  Patterson divides the book into four parts.  The first part, a short two chapters, tries to position the reader atop the \\"White House gates\\" by showing the overall organization and how post-war presidents have all strengthened power in the White House.  The second part takes up the bulk of the book, as Patterson goes into detail about the \\"not-so-bashful bureaucracy\\" and explores each position and office.  Part three is one short chapter about the professional staff of the White House, including information on Air Force One, Camp David, the Secret Service, and more.  This chapter is quite interesting.  The final part of the book is spent looking to the future of White House service.<br />In the end, this book is a thorough description of what goes on in the White House.  It is a long read, and I do not recommend reading it in one sitting (unless you are about to work in the White House!).  Instead, this book is a great way to read about the broad organization of the White House (part 1).  The reader can then explore the offices or position that he is interested in.  This is perhaps the most beneficial quality of the book - it is organized in such a way to allow the reader to jump around from topic to topic.  \\"The White House Staff\\" in effect is the \\"Dummies guide\\" to the White House and serves as awesome reference material.	2003-01-07
US	50475679	R1S1XW8LVQ2VG7	1568021526	11188566	Rivals for Power: Presidential-Congressional Relations	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good collection of essays on U.S. president	Rivals for Power is an interesting collection of essays edited by James Thurber with the intent of exploring what the roots of rivalry between the president and Congress are.  The chapters in the book present original research organized around several themes and written from a variety of perspectives.  Political scientists, legal scholars, historians, journalists, former White House and Capitol Hill staff, and former members of Congress all contribute.<br />The essays are quite appropriate and do a great job in helping to improve the understanding of presidential-congressional relations by combining firsthand experiences with academic analyses.  This book is recommended to all interested in the U.S. presidency, especially as it relates to Congress.	2003-01-07
US	50475679	R1S31RKBGFOM4G	1568024967	426199546	The Presidency and the Political System	Books	3	2	4	N	N	In depth collection of essays on U.S. presidency	The Presidency and the Political Stream is a collection of twenty essays edited by Michael Nelson, who is a professor at Rhodes College.  Each chapter explores a different aspect of the relationship between the presidency and the U.S. political system.  This book is recommended to serious scholars of the U.S. presidency.	2003-01-07
US	50475679	R11F46442NVBQA	0670030864	236581519	The Last American Man	Books	2	19	32	N	N	Interesting premise, but in the end lacks punch	Elizabeth Gilbert starts out her book The Last American Man with a bang, summing up the adventurous accomplishments of Eustace Conway. At seven, he could hunt down chipmunks by accurately flinging a knife.  At twelve, he went into the woods and survived on his own for a week.  At 18 he conquered the mighty Mississippi in a canoe and the following year it was the Appalachian Trail.  Conway is the subject of Gilbert's telling of the &quot;last American man;&quot; rather, the last person in this country to live off the land with Davy Crockett-styled energy.  <BR>The first few chapters certainly set the stage for an exciting and interesting story, yet in the end the reader is left angry at Conway as he is anything but American.<br />The book begins by outlining Conway's goal in life, which is quite different than the typical 21st century Internet-savvy American.  Simply, he wants to &quot;snap his countrymen out of their sleepwalk.&quot;  Conway wants to do this by reintroducing Americans to the concept of revelatory communion with the frontier.  This communion comes in the form of visits to local high schools, and particularly in people coming to stay with Conway on his land in North Carolina.  Unfortunately Conway is not too successful in accomplishing his goal, as he drives away most that are initially interested in the frontier plans.<br />Before describing the actual apprenticeship program, Gilbert sets up the credibility of Conway as the 21st century Davy Crockett.  These moments are the most interesting in the book -- descriptions of Conway in college at Appalachian State are humorous, and the adventures that he finds later in life are amazing.  In particular, Conway's horseback voyage across America is quite interesting.<br />In the end though, the book shines a light on the fact that Eustace Conway is about as un-American as they come.  He does not embody the ideals that many of the great American leaders held.  Conway is a selfish and egotistical man that is more interested in his own welfare than the original goal he set out to accomplish.  Even Gilbert, who is a close friend of Conway's, admits to his vanity and says that he should loosen up.  Conway admits that his frontier image is an act and that he would prefer to live a simple life alone in the woods.  Instead, he has commercialized and glamourized his life accomplishments, becoming what he strived to fight in the first place.  Conway is a confused man with serious emotional problems (which are explored in detail throughout the chapters about his childhood).<br />The adventures of Conway are interesting, but the book is absent of any real lesson or insight.  If it is Davy Crockett adventure that you seek, rent the movie or get the biography.  I do not recommend this book to those looking for portrayal of the last American man, as its merits cannot stand ground based solely on the interesting storyline.	2002-12-16
US	50475679	R2GSDJXHL9TD7I	0679774025	504166475	All over but the Shoutin'	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wow, wonderful and touching story of southern living	In this memoir, Rick Bragg opens wonderfully.  \\"This is not an important book.  It is only the story of a strong woman, a tortured man and three sons who lived hemmed in by thin cotton and ragged history in northeast Alabama, a time when blacks and whites found reason to hate each other and a whole lot of people could not stand themselves.\\"<br />This is a touching and amazing story.  It's a story of sacrifice, hard work, loyalty, heartache, and poverty. It's a story of Nascar, black-eyed peas, sweet tea, religion, and football.  It's the story of any person - rich or poor - that was raised in the south and all will relate.  <br />Bragg, who was raised in utter poverty and described himself as white trash, grew up always afraid that the good things in his life were temporary, that someone could take them away, because as a poor man he had no power beyond his own strength to stop them.  But through a little hard work and a lot of luck, Bragg is able to validate his years of poverty and his mom's life of sacrifice.  A Harvard Nieman fellow, Bragg uses his Pulitzer Prize as validation of his mother's hard work.  The story of his taking mother to New York City to accept the prize is unbelievable, as the reader has formed an allegiance with the family and understands her wonder at elevators, escalators, and revolving doors.<br />The story of his mother's sacrifice is great, as she waited to eat until all three of her boys were done.  When Ricky left for Tampa, already an accomplished journalist, his mom slips him ten bucks even though he was supporting her financially. Working countless jobs and suffering from an abusive husband that left her time and time again, the woman is a symbol of what a mother should be. <br />Being from the south, I especially enjoyed the accounts of the area, which often took me to the beautiful rolling hills of northeast Alabama and reminded me of scenes from the popular film \\"O Brother Where Art Thou?\\"  In writing about great southern footballlegends like Shug Jordan, Bo Jackson, and Bear Bryant, Bragg says, \\"Football is cliché down here.  I do not believe that sport is the very essence of Southern life - I know God and work and family precede football, except perhaps on Alabama-Auburn game day - but what it is is the greatest escapes of that life.\\"  How true those words are.<br />I highly recommend this to all and especially to those from the south.	2002-08-09
US	50475679	R2OYGV17CXKZEN	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Interesting, easy read, but lacks depth	Using analogy and scripture, John Eldredge sets out with a purpose of understanding man's wild heart - why we long for adventures, battles, and a beauty to rescue. The book is good, but not great. In the end I was left wanting to be a man, revved up on testosterone and eager to fight the good fight.<br />Eldredge is a \\"guy's guy,\\" and herein lies the fallacy in the book. The problem is that Eldredge fills the entire work with stories and clips from guy movies, including Braveheart, Perfect World, A River Runs through It, Indiana Jones, Jerry Maguire, Good Will Hunting, The Natural, Gladiator, and more. He uses the Tim \\"The Toolman\\" Taylor approach, grunting as page upon page is filled with quotes. In the end the book offers more fluff than it does Eldredge's ideas.<br />In any event, I know many that love this book and there are many good points. Eldredge opens with man's desire. In every man there is a desire for a battle to fight, an adventure to live, and a beauty to rescue. Analogically, we are the \\"Tristan's\\" of Far and Away, adventure putting us to the test. I would argue this point - because I know some wimpy guys - but I found the observation true to myself. From here, there is a question that every man asks: can I come through again? Do I have what it takes? Eldredge observes, \\"Most of us are faking our way through life, fighting battles we know we can win.\\"<br />The middle of the book focuses on past wounds and relationships with women and fathers and is mediocre at best. It is the end of the book in which Eldredge provides his greatest analysis. After hammering out over and over the idea that man seeks adventure, Eldredge comes through with his best point. \\"Life is not a problem to be solved, it is an adventure to be lived. ...Don't ask yourself what the world needs. Ask yourself what makes you come alive, and go do that, because what the world needs is people who have come alive.\\"<br />The book is an enjoyable, quick read, but as stated above is repetitive and fluffy.	2002-08-09
US	50475679	R2SQERKD7DEWSI	0871089114	964568063	Hiking Trails of Southwestern Colorado	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Directions to trailheads leave you confused!	Beware, although the descriptions of the actual hikes are average, the directions given to the trailheads are terrible!  <br />I used this book to climb Mt. Handies, Redcloud, Sunshine, and Sneffels (all 14,000' peaks) and was utterly confused on how to find the trailheads!  Located in the Alpine Loop that connects Ouray, Silverton, and Telluride, we spent many precious hours searching in four-wheel drive terrain for the trailheads.  In the end, the trailhead was a simple location and could have been described in a much better way.  The result was that we nearly ended up stuck in the mountains due to running out of gas! We only made it because of a kind stranger.<br />To Pixler's credit, the description of the actual hikes are good, although the distances seemed consistently off.  I especially appreciated a few hints on shortcuts for the Redcloud hike, as it saved about a mile and a half of hiking!<br />There are definitely better books out there, but this will do if you can't find anything else.	2002-08-09
US	50475679	RRG0N927GNK99	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not life altering for me, but for others perhaps...	Shattering the perception that men are unable to control their thought lives and roving eyes, Every Man's Battle shares the stories of dozens who have escaped the trap of sexual immorality and presents a practical, detailed plan for any man who desires purity -- perfect for those who have fallen in the past, those who want to remain strong today, and all who want to overcome temptation in the future.<br />The book opens with an introduction that most men can probably relate to, followed by verses and scripture on sexual purity.  The remainder of the book is laid out into steps one can take to win the battle, each step fittingly called a \\"victory.\\"  Whether victory with your eyes, mind, or heart, the author Stephen Arterburn breaks down the steps with specific goals and stories and scripture to go along with the entire process.  <br />His outline is nice, but unfortunately is has two problems.  First, many of the stories are about lust and thus might cause the reader to lust in his thoughts (it did for me and several friends).  Second, although the steps are specific, I still found them rather generic, especially when related to the mind and heart.  <br />The best point made in the book is that men truly lack a sense of urgency when it comes to sexual purity and we must \\"choose victory\\" now.  As Arterburn states, we are only sexually pure when no sexual gratification comes from anyone or anything but  your wife.  Sounds tough, huh?  This book helped me a bit, and I have known several guys that it helped a ton.  It is quite an easy read, and I recommend it to those men out there with a desire to choose victory.	2002-08-09
US	50475679	ROX2WEGB5QIF7	0385494785	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magnificent story of man's pride and selfishness	This is the terrifying story of what happened on journalist John Krakauer's trip down Mount Everest on May 10, 1996, which would turn out to be the deadliest season in history.  Krakauer takes the reader along with his ill-fated expedition, step by precarious step, from Katmandu to the mountains summit where, plagued by a combination of hubris, greed, poor judgment, and bad luck, they would fall prey to the mountain's unpredictable fury.<br />This story, which reads like an exciting fiction novel, is truly unbelievable and will make those who have thought about attempting Everest (or other high peaks) second guess themselves.  Man's selfishness is put under a magnifying glass in this story, as time after time the climbers display an absurd amount of poor judgment due to their desire to tackle the top.  Some of these events include a South African team that would not share a radio, guides not using supplemental oxygen, and a determination to reach the summit and refusal to turn around at the specified cut-off time of 2:00 p.m.<br />Certainly much of the poor judgment is due to the tough conditions of the altitude -- not just temperature -- but lack of oxygen.  Amazingly, the climbers get half as much oxygen as sea level when at base camp, and only one-third when at the summit.  The side effects that Krakauer describes of these conditions is dizzying, and certainly lead to incoherent and often delusional behavior.  For instance, Krakauer himself mistook a member of his team (Adams) for another climber (Harris), telling a whole family that he was the last to see Harris.<br />The end of the book stirs up controversy, as Krakauer uses a prologue to battle Anatoli Boukreev's account of the events.  Krakauer seems to have not learned his lesson, as his excessive pride leads to this boring and pointless section on whose account is correct, with minute details being debated.  <br />All in all, this book is magnificent and should be read by all outdoor enthusists!	2002-08-09
US	50475679	R32IQQ4WNHITHZ	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Awesome - adventure, love, politics, mystery	Although the cover looks like a romance novel, this book is fascinating and a work of enormous power.  Conroy opens with this:<br />I have need to bear witness what I saw [at the Institute.] ...I want a murderous, stunning truthfulness.  I want to find my own singular voice for the first time.  I want you to understand why I hate the school with all my power and passion.  Then I want you to forgive me for loving the school.  Some of the boys of the Institute and the men who are her sons will hate me for the rest of their lives.  But that will be all right.  You see, I wear the ring.<br />The book is murderous and stunning truthfulness.  In fact, this reader is left wondering if the story really did happen, as Conroy attended the Citadel during the same years described in the book.  In the \\"Author's Note,\\" Conroy notes that the work is fiction and he is trying to write a story about the idea of a military school.  After interviewing many from schools all over the country, he presents the idea in amazing fashion.  There is certainly a mystique to the work that leaves the reader wondering if it is true.<br />Without giving too much away, Conroy brings us into the life of rebel Will McLean and his struggles through the Institute.  Vivid descriptions of Charleston invade the text, with the beautiful plantation style houses described in several passages.  The plebe year is presented in a terrifying manner, as the hazing is discussed in wretched detail after another.  Out of 700 entering freshmen, 100 would leave the first week and 300 by the end of the year.<br />In the end, this novel of heartbreak, politics (Vietnam), pride, betrayal, and intrigue is a true winner.  I recommend this one to all.	2002-08-09
US	50475679	R1MT3K0RQ2UJ12	0895263203	774984233	The New Birth of Freedom: Vision for America	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Read Forbes' 200-page platform?	Steve Forbes claims at the start of his book that the goal is to show how &quot;we&quot; can launch a new birth of freedom that will help all Americans achieve their dreams.  He should have just come right out and say it: the goal of this book was to publicize Forbes' presidential platform!<br />I agree with most of Forbes' platform.  In fact, initially I was dead set against a flat tax but Forbes' presentation actually got me thinking about the possibility.  He is very good at explaining the simplicity of the tax, and it is quite compelling in that regard.  Of course, multi-millionaires like Forbes would be the ones getting the biggest cuts.  <br />In any event, this book is totally unnecessary.  Forbes should have typed up a little brochure and spent his money on publicizing that instead of the book.  The format of each chapter is quite consistent -- Forbes presents pages upon pages of background information to an issue, and then outlines his opinion/ideas.  This makes for a slow (and often dull) read, as the introductory material is generic and most readers are probably aware of what Forbes outlines.  This 200-page platform could definitely be edited down to a 20-page brochure.<br />I only recommend this book to the biggest Forbes' enthusiasts.  My favorite part of the book did not even come from Steve Forbes, rather in a quote on success from his grandfather B.C. Forbes.<br />&quot;Business was originated to produce happiness, not to pile up millions. Are we in danger of forgetting this?  Too often in talking with so-called &quot;successful&quot; men I cannot but feel that they are making business an end and an aim in itself, that they regard the multiplying of their millions and the extension of their works as the be-all and end-all of life, life itself.  ...They are so obsessed with the material that they cannot enjoy the immaterial, the intangible, the ideal, the spiritual -- quiet thought, self-communion, reflection, poise, inward happiness, domestic felicity...&quot;	2002-03-13
US	50475679	R3N5T9885KKRMA	0684862360	819251496	Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Not Matthews' best	Why should I care what Chris Matthews' really thinks?  The purpose of this one is to tell people how he feels about certain issues, to show people whether he is a conservative or a liberal.  But I found that although the book was interesting at times, it lacked the true opinions of Matthews' on huge issues and focused more on his path to his current status instead.  Pages at a time were spent on Matthews' opinion on political leaders like Nixon, Kennedy, and Reagan. True, Matthews really did say what he thought of these men, but who cares?  I wanted to hear the dirt -- the real issues that affect Americans' daily lives like Social Security, taxes, etc.  Matthews oftentimes appears as a fence rider, especially in his commentary on current politicos like Clinton, Bush, and Gore. <br />Published soon after the attacks on the World Trade Center, it often seemed that Matthews rushed this book to the presses with a few obvious grammatical errors that editors missed.  In short, this book seems like a weak attempt to make a buck for Matthews.  The book is listed by publishers as 256 pages, but it only goes to page 215, and the first chapter doesn't start until page 19!  Additionally, a title page between each chapter knocks an another 20 pages off the book.  In the end, the actual 175-page (or less) book lacks substance and appears more like fluff.<br />My favorite two parts of the book actually were quotes/commentary of other men.<BR>1)  &quot;All men dream; but not equally.  Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find that it was vanity; but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dream with open eyes, to make it possible.  This I did.&quot;  T.E. Lawrence, Seven Pillars of Wisdom<BR>2) Matthews on Winston Churchill: &quot;Churchill took charge of his own destiny.  He placed himself at the center of the action.&quot;  Placing oneself in the center of action is key.<br />Looking over the notes that I tookfor each chapter, it is very apparent that this is not Matthews' best attempt at a book.  &quot;Hardball&quot; is a wonderful insight to politics and I highly recommend it, but &quot;Now, Let Me Tell You What I Really Think&quot; leaves the reader with little to reflect on and much to be desired.	2002-03-11
US	50475679	R3J1ZOBX8YFKIA	0300087012	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave Written By Himself	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Applicable even today	In his work Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave, Frederick Douglass outlines his purpose in writing the piece:<br />&quot;Sincerely and earnestly hoping that this little book may do something toward throwing light on the American slave system, and hastening the glad day of deliverance to the millions of my brethren in bonds - faithfully relying upon the power of truth, love, and justice, for success in my humble efforts - and solemnly pledging my self anew to the sacred cause.&quot;<br />Certainly Douglass' \\"little\\" book shed tremendous light on the slave system that existed in early American history and he successfully accomplished his purpose.  The description of how slaves were treated was interesting and enlightening, and provokes compassion in the reader.  Additionally, Douglass wonderfully explores the issue of knowledge and power, as he describes the many occasions in which slaveholders tried to keep slaves from learning to read.  Finally, Douglass raises a concern about the hypocrisy among southern Christians based on the way that they treat slaves.  True Christians treat all humans with love, respect, compassion, and indiscriminately.  This final point raises a relevant issue in today's society - does this hypocrisy still exist?<br />Several statistics indicate that although the problem that Douglass addresses is not as drastic, it still remains a serious challenge that the United States must wrestle:  16.2 percent of American children are living in poverty (United States Census); 54 percent of African American families say underachievement among black students represents a &quot;crisis,&quot; 33 percent of white parents agree (Public Agenda); 10.8 million children in the United States have no health insurance; 1 in 4 Hispanic children are uninsured; 1 in 11 Caucasian children are uninsured (Children's Defense Fund); 3/4 of teachers in public schools do not believe that schools should expect the same from students in low-income areas as students in high-income areas (Education Watch); in recent years income has decreased in the bottom, second, and middle 20% sectors, while increasing slightly in the fourth sector and substantially in the top sector (United States Census).  .  If American Christians were truly loving and sharing like Jesus teaches, the social stratification that is prevalent in the United States would not be nearly as extreme.  The Christian Church should not allow such tremendous economic and educational differences.  Although this is not nearly as glaring a problem as slavery, Douglass' narrative is applicable even to today's social problems and is well worth the read for that and many other reasons.eas as students in high-income areas (Education Watch); in recent years income has decreased in the bottom, second, and middle 20% sectors, while increasing slightly in the fourth sector and substantially in the top sector (United States Census).  .  If American Christians were truly loving and sharing like Jesus teaches, the social stratification that is prevalent in the United States would not be nearly as extreme.  The Christian Church should not allow such tremendous economic and educational differences.  Although this is not nearly as glaring a problem as slavery, Douglass' narrative is applicable even to today's social problems and is well worth the read for that and many other reasons.	2002-02-20
US	50475679	R1CE4EQGT1N1SX	034536273X	737418108	Hail to the Chiefs: Or How to Tell Your Polks from Your Tylers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Witty	Initially, the blatent sarcasm of this book is kind of annoying.  But after reading the entire work, it kind of grew on me and I found myself enjoying author Barbara Holland's sense of humor.  For example, one of my favorites was about Woodrow Wilson: &quot;Historians say he was a great genius because nobody had ever thought of the League of Nations before, but this is probably not true.  It's the kind of thing small children think up all the time, and their parents tell them to hush.&quot;<br />The only problem I had in the end with the sarcastic comments was that Holland was so loud that she sometimes came off with a &quot;better than you&quot; attitide.  For instance, she railed Jimmy Carter for his southern accent.   Perhaps I'm just defensive because I'm from the south, but the comments were sometimes quite disrespectful to our nation's highest officer.  <br />Although the author spends an unnecessary amount of time talking about the presidents' wives (especially Mrs. Madison), she makes up for it with her witty closers at the end of each chapter.  My favorite was Rutherford B. Hayes -- I'm afraid I really don't have anything more to say on the subject.  I've already said far too much, and if you want to know more you'll have to go look it up for yourself.  When youi find something exciting, give me a call.<br />This book only covers through Ronald Reagan, but it is a quick and enjoyable bedside read.	2002-02-20
US	50475679	R2Y20T2J64IHRN	1891620924	345054687	One Day, All Children...: The Unlikely Triumph of Teach For America and What I Learned Along the Way	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Inspiring, interesting, quick read	Like the rest of the world, I was profoundly touched by the heroics of the New York police and firefighters during and after the terrorist attacks.  I see their self-sacrifice as the ultimate example of public service and a moving reminder of the American spirit of service to one's fellowmen.  I could never presume that my commitment could rise to the level of the heroic actions of the people in New York, but I have been inspired by the example.  Although I am eager to fully explore policy issues in graduate school, I strongly desire to serve Teach For America prior to furthering my education.  <br />Teach For America is Wendy Kopp's brilliant idea to recruit, train, and place the nation's best college graduates in inner-city teaching positions.  \\"One Day, All Children...\\" is Kopp's story of the development of this non-profit organization that upholds the mission statement of, \\"One day, all children in this nation will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education.\\"<br />Nearing her graduation from Princeton University in 1989, Kopp faced a problem many idealistic young people face, including myself: wanting to have an immediate impact on the world.  The idea of Teach For America was originally Kopp's senior thesis, but becamse a reality when she decided to pursue it upon graduation.  The opening chapters of the book focus on the hard work it took to raise funds, recruit applicants, select teachers, plan and implement training, and survive on a day to day basis.  These chapters are fascinating, explicitly detailed (with memos and letters included that Kopp wrote to CEOs for funding, etc), and paint a beautiful picture of the hard work that Kopp and others put in to TFA.<br />The following few chapters focus on the younger years of TFA, and these chapters drag a little bit (and are a little repetitive).  But the chapters are well worth the read, as Kopp closes nicely with what she learned from the experiences.  Kopp learned two important lessons to running abusiness, and they are closely tied together.  First, Kopp realized that TFA had to have effective management and leadership.  Although TFA was able to survive initially on its own merit, good ideas will not keep a company going in the long run.  Second, TFA had to set goals for its finances and plan business accordingly.  Early on Kopp started other programs that worked in conjunction with TFA, like TEACH! which worked to recruit excellent college graduates into teaching positions.  But TFA tried to move on this idea before the funding was there, and this created a world of trouble for Kopp, as she works long hours every day just to make sure that TFA makes payroll every two weeks!  In the end TFA is able to become a viable program not only through the impact it creates and the hard work and motivation of its employees, but also because of its connection with the Americorps program.<br />The next section deals with the success of TFA and is inspiring to all those that are thinking of serving the country.  Kopp tells the stories of many TFA teachers, and outlines the key to their success: good leadership.  Kopp closes this section with a vision for the future, which has become TFA's mission statement, and a challenge to all recent college graduates to consider applying for the program.  I read this book after already having applied, but am even more inspired to serve now!  I read this book in no time at all and strongly recommend it to recent graduates, all involved in education, and any idealist out there that is ready to make a difference to this country.	2002-02-17
US	50475679	R31WJD7ZIR62J8	0140433627	655343360	Frankenstein: Or the Modern Prometheus	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A timeless classic	Published in 1818, Mary Shelley's best-selling novel Frankenstein has become famed and celebrated annually as thousands of children dress in various monster garb for Halloween, depicting themselves as Dr. Frankenstein's creation.  Although Shelley's story is sometimes slow and explicitly focused on minor details, the work presents many issues that are still being analyzed today in literature and society.  This is a testament of the timelessness of this great book.<br />Like other authors of the time, Shelley comments on the innocence of childhood when Frankenstein says, \\"I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind, and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self.\\"  Frankenstein's childhood was something that was precious and dear.  This thought has remained popular in current literature.  For example, in the television show Ed, the main character has this to say about the early days:<br />\\"Explain to me why we're always so condescending towards our younger selves.  We should be looking back in awe of who we were...all that passion, all that fire, all those dreams.  And then it all fades and people say, `Oh well, that's just part of growing up.'  I think that's tragic.\\"<br />The fascination of the idealism of children is still quite popular, not only in modern sitcoms but in blockbuster movies like Big or classic fairy tales like Peter Pan as well.  Although Shelley does not fully explore this matter, she addresses an issue that still gains press today.<br />Another theme of Frankenstein is equivalent of the modern day sociological issue of nature versus nurture.  The creature begins his life full of love and cannot even conceive of why someone would murder another person.  But as he faces constant abandonment and bitterness, the creature turns to acts that he once could not imagine.  Placing the blame on his nurture, or lack thereof, the creature exclaims, \\"I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.  Was there no injustice in this?  Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all human kind sinned against me?\\"  Shelley's answer to these questions is not all too clear, although the fate and doom of Frankenstein sends a message that the scientist was partially at fault.  But the answers that the creature would get in modern times are lucid and concise.<br />A final issue that is still prevalent in society is mankind's attempt to govern the physical world through science.  The results of Frankenstein's experiment indicate that Shelley strongly believes that man should not try to play God.  Stephen Hawking is currently trying to unify physics, or combine the theory of relativity with the theory of quantum mechanics.  Others try to clone life using DNA.  Hawking recently said, \\"\\"If we find the answer to [cloning or the unification of physics,] it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason - for then we would know the mind of God.\\"  Like Frankenstein, scientists are still trying to discover the mystery of life, and Shelley's commentary on this absorption is appropriate even today.<br /><br />This book is slow at times but in the end worth the read.exclaims, \\"I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned.  Was there no injustice in this?  Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all human kind sinned against me?\\"  Shelley's answer to these questions is not all too clear, although the fate and doom of Frankenstein sends a message that the scientist was partially at fault.  But the answers that the creature would get in modern times are lucid and concise.  <br />A final issue that is still prevalent in society is mankind's attempt to govern the physical world through science.  The results of Frankenstein's experiment indicate that Shelley strongly believes that man should not try to play God.  Stephen Hawking is currently trying to unify physics, or combine the theory of relativity with the theory of quantum mechanics.  Others try to clone life using DNA.  Hawking recently said, \\"\\"If we find the answer to [cloning or the unification of physics,] it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason - for then we would know the mind of God.\\"  Like Frankenstein, scientists are still trying to discover the mystery of life, and Shelley's commentary on this absorption is appropriate even today.<BR> <BR>This book is slow at times but in the end worth the read.	2002-02-11
US	50475679	R3E8AV2LYZMLHF	0393020371	601624284	Next: The Future Just Happened	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Interesting but fails to bring good connection	In \\"Next: The future just happened,\\" Michael Lewis opens by stating that in the long run the Internet will become invisible and ubiquituous and no one will think of the social effects anymore than they think of the social effects of electricity.  This is a rather obvious statement if one thinks about it: the reason that electricity has had zero social effect on me is because it has been a part of every facet of my life for my entire life.  This is the idea that Lewis sets out to explore through stories that he has investigated.  The stories are quite interesting, but are not interestng enough to make this book worth the read.<br />The first chapter, entitled \\"The Financial Revolt,\\" tells the fascinating story of Jonathan Lebed in great detail.  The story stretches for the entire eighty-page chapter and relays the inside scoop on the 15-year old kid that made $800,000 by going into chat rooms and giving financial advice.  Lewis's analysis of the Lebed story is that stock prices respond to the public's perspective.  Lewis also hints at what might be the future of the stock market: millions of small investors plugging becoming in essence professional analysts, generating little explosions of unreality in every corner of the capital markets.  But Lewis fails to further explore this idea, providing many pages of story, but no bang to back it up.<br />The book follows the pattern of the first chapter: a long, very detailed, interesting story with very little analysis.  But the book is only four chapters, so really you're only getting four stories.  Marcus Arnold and his rise in legal advice on AskMe.com is discussed in chapter two, Lewis's point being that if one reduces the law to information then anyone can supply it.  Sounds like Will Hunting's claim that anyone can get an education with a library card and $1.35 in late fees.  In chapter three, kid-whiz Daniel Sheldon and file sharing application Gnutella are explored.  Lewis's major point through these three stories and chapters is that the Internet undermined all the old sources of insider power: control of distribution channels, intellectual property, and information.  Chapter 4 is about the effect of TiVo and Knowledge Networks on opinion surveys and advertising.  This is the least interesting chapter and Lewis is at his lowest in analysis.<br />In the final chapter, Lewis explains that he has interviewed and explored many more people and stories, but selected only a few to tell that fairly represented the whole.  Perhaps Lewis should have just told all of the stories in brief, because then the reader would have been left with a bunch of stories to draw conclusions from, instead of just four or five like there are now.  Lewis closes his book with a quote from Leded: \\"I feel that it is very important to focus on the future right now.\\"  Lewis's closing remarks are icing on the cake for the breakdown and in depth explanation he misses throughout the book.	2002-02-04
US	50475679	R2K70QWRVZP3JK	0841498520	661719613	Shelley's Defence of poetry and Blunden's lectures on "Defence."	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Truly an offense for poetry	The title of P.B. Shelley's A Defence of Poetry implies just that: a defense or justification of the art form in which Shelly best expressed himself.  Nevertheless, it is my contention that the essay is more of an offense than a defense in that Shelley asserts not only the immortality of poetry, but also that poetry is the best voice of society.<br />A fascination that can be seen in present-day television shows like Highlander and age-old quests for the Holy Grail is mankind's search for life.  Although many would claim (including myself) that the only way to find immortality is through God, Shelley argues that poetry can last forever in his line, \\"Poetry thus makes immortal all that is best and most beautiful in the world.\\"  Shelley can make this statement because he is arguing for the endlessness of words and ideas; certainly this could be.  For instance, many of the psalms in the Bible are poetic and have lasted thousands of years.  But in saying that \\"poetry redeems from decay the visitations of the divinity in man,\\" Shelley is declaring that by writing poetry, one is able to in a sense claim immortality because he lives on forever in his words.  Although people all over the world are still reading his words, Shelley is not alive.  He was mortal.  This is quite a small redemption, yet poetry is a way to make one's ideas live evermore and this is certainly an offense for poetry.<br />Shelley writes, \\"The most unfailing herald, companion, and follower of the awakening of a great people to work a beneficial change in opinion or institution, is Poetry. ...Poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the World.\\"  Strom Thurmond might challenge the last statement, but Shelley's words ring true in that a poet's ideas concisely express the values and feelings of the society in which she exists.  Shelley was himself a critic of English society during the nineteenth century.  Although a poet is not really an \\"unacknowledged legislator\\" because she is not making the finaldecision, this notion is an offense for poetry in that a poet shapes the perception the public has of the world. <br />Shelley says: <BR>Poets are the hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration, the mirrors of the gigantic shadows which futurity casts upon the present, the words which express what they understand not; the trumpets which sing to battle, and feel not what they inspire: the influence which is not moved.  <BR>Shelley was really defending poetry here, yet taken out of context the description above could easily paint a picture of a great book or many other works and art forms - Benini's film Life is Beautiful, Lennon's song Imagine, my father's weekly editorial, Dostoyeski's Crime and Punishment, Matthews' television show Hardball, Edwards' Broadway musical Rent.  Shelley's essay can be seen not only as an offense for poetry, but a beautiful and enlightening offense for all literary art forms.	2002-01-30
US	50475679	R2OBNDE9C1PVO	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	2	14	17	N	N	Very little of this is worth your time	I find it hard to believe that so many copies of this book have sold.  Perhaps it is because of Bill O'Reilly's successful show.  In any event, unlike the show, I found this book slow and not worth the read.<br />The book is basically O'Reilly's take on everything in life, from relationships to marriage to religion and the book is divided up into twenty chapters entitled &quot;The _________ Factor.&quot; How clever of O'Reilly to use a play on words from his cable television show's title!  Now I get to read about &quot;The Family Factor.&quot;<br />The major problem that I have with this book is that it is solely written as O'Reilly's opinion.  Sure, every now and then he throws in a statistic, but that is not too often.  There is nothing wrong in writing a book that voices your opinion, but at least throw some bones out there every now and then.  It seems that O'Reilly set out to write a book that outlines his views about everything.  It's not that I disagree with him, because most issues I agreed.  But it's just boring reading!  There is truly no meat to his opinions.  Throughout the book, &quot;Ridiculous Notes&quot; are weaved in and out; these  notes usually were completely pointless or irrelevant.<br />Although I have lambasted the work thus far, I did give it two stars, so here are the parts worth reading about:<br />In &quot;The Class Factor,&quot; O'Reilly asserts that class is not about race like Jesse Jackson is always yelling, but about money.  The discussion that follows on this topic is good.  &quot;The Money Factor&quot; outlines basic principles about money.  In brief, they are: money doesn't buy love or happiness, the commercials lie, we need to set a good example for our children, and don't forget that most of  us had to be taught to share with others.  The final installation that I found worthwhile dealt with the drug problem.  O'Reilly says that laws should be vigorously enforced in this area, and actually goes into some detail on what should bedone to help the problem.  The required drug rehabilitation program that the state of Alabama uses is discussed in depth, and it is truly a novel idea.<br />In short, I do not highly recommend this book, as there is much better commentary reading out there.	2002-01-18
US	50475679	R1C47AAZB1CFUY	0393321134	938238788	The Missing Middle: Working Families and the Future of American Social Policy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good, but sometimes general and repetitive	I believe that the biggest problem that our nation is currently facing, aside from the recent issues brought about by the terrorist attacks, is social stratification. Early on in The Missing Middle, author Theda Skocpol points to glaring statistics that back this up. For instance, in 1987 only 14.8% of the U.S. population excluding the elderly were not covered by private or public health insurance. In 1997 the number had increased to 18.3%. Generally speaking, one-third of our nation's impoverished are uninsured despite the booming economy of the 90s. A quote from Lester Thurow, who wrote the bestseller \\"Head to Head,\\" points out that the bottom 60% of the population could not benefit from the economic explosion because they are not the ones that own stocks. The bottomline is that the really rich (top 1%) are getting richer while everyone else is staying the same or declining.<br />This book addresses the many problems that social stratification brings about to the \\"missing middle.\\" Of course, the two biggest issues that Skocpol addresses are national-level public policy that deals with social security and healthcare, making clear from the outset that most Americans expect to receive these benefits from the government. The book, in short, deals with not only the societal trends and public policies, but also with the conflicts and possibilities of American domestic policy.<br />This book is divided into five chapters and the topics include: the missing middle, background on successful social policy, the security of our grandparents, social security for today's generation, and what it will take to build a successful system. The first four chapters are sometimes general and repetitive, but the final chapter is well worth the read.<br />In the last chapter, Skocpol outlines what she thinks can be done to \\"reach for the missing middle.\\" Claiming that the best defense to social security is an offense, the author suggests that the social security trust fund be used for post-high school loans for education and job training, with the loans repaid at a slightly higher interest rate. Another recommendation is to start a Child Support Assurance system, in which the absent parent in a single-parent family is automatically deducted a set percent from each paycheck. Other suggestions include a bigger charity movement, an increase in the earned income tax credit (EITC) for low-wage working families, and increasing the minimum wage. Three other general suggestions are to push for universal health care, paid family leave, and affordable child care. All of these recommendations are mere suggestions, and the weakness of the chapter is that Skocpol does not address the positive and negative effects of these policies.	2002-01-13
US	50475679	RCPZYVBRFCRF3	0553801821	208460173	The Man Who Ate the 747	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting story that beautifully captures the idea of love	I don't read many love stories, but this one is by far the most unique and interesting I have read.  This is the story of J.J. Smith, who is the &quot;Keeper of the Records&quot; for The Book of Records.  He travels the world in search of records -- like the longest continuous kiss (30 hours, 45 minutes), the lengthiest single unbroken applie peel (172 feet, 4 inches), and the farthest a champagne cork has flown (177 feet, 9 inches).  The catch is that J.J. doesn't believe in true love, until he meets a small town called Superior in Nebraska in which a man is trying to prove his love by eating an entire Boeing 747!<br />Throughout the story, quite interesting records (that are true) are spouted out by J.J.  This makes for good reading in itself, but  the author, Ben Sherwood, is able to weave this into a realistic love story and in the end leaves the reader with some powerful ideas.<br />The first gem that the book addresses is the beauty of the &quot;small town.&quot;  J.J. comes to Nebraska from the Big Apple, but through all of its quirks and unique people, J.J. begins to truly appreciate the Superior.  This is reminiscent of the Doc Hollywood story.  Sherwood does a wonderful job making the reader feel like he is a part of Superior and in the end this small town represents any unique little town in the &quot;middle of nowhere, or the middle of everywhere.&quot;<br />I always enjoy when an author came capture the joy and feelings of what it means to be a kid.  Sherwood does this by illustrating several instances in which children flock to see the &quot;Keeper of the Records.&quot;  Whether they come to try to break records on pogo sticks or with yo-yos, Sherwood shows that &quot;kids are the same all over the world.&quot;  I love this idea!<br />And of course, the final issue that the author tackles is love.  Claiming at the outset that this is the &quot;greatest love story ever,&quot; the reader in the end is left with a warm, fuzzy feeling when J.J. -- who spent the entire story engrossed in statistics -- claims that each one of us can claim the record for the greatest love if we recognize it when we find it, pure and true.  Wow, that's awesome.  As Sherwood points out, love isn't about finding someone that is perfectly compatible for you, someone that provides grand gestures, or a person of selfless sacrifice.  Certainly these things are great in a relationship, but true love is just a feeling.<br />My few reservations about this book are not worthy of mentioning here.  This is a good book and a great love story that is well-worth the read for all those romantics out there!t the entire story engrossed in statistics -- claims that each one of us can claim the record for the greatest love if we recognize it when we find it, pure and true.  Wow, that's awesome.  As Sherwood points out, love isn't about finding someone that is perfectly compatible for you, someone that provides grand gestures, or a person of selfless sacrifice.  Certainly these things are great in a relationship, but true love is just a feeling.<br />My few reservations about this book are not worthy of mentioning here.  This is a good book and a great love story that is well-worth the read for all those romantics out there!	2002-01-08
US	50475679	RHM9ROSM02TIK	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Entertaining yet often biased	First off, let me say that, like James Carville, I am a democrat from Louisiana.  That said, although I enjoyed the always colorful personality of Carville, this book should be read critically.  <br />In this book Carville sets out to prove that liberal democrats &quot;are right,&quot; and conservative republicans are wrong.  This poses my major problem with the book.  Carville is too much of an &quot;us versus them&quot;-type of guy.  Certainly it is okay to argue that you are right, but no matter what, the conservatives are always going to have to work together with the liberals.  Carville is very opinionated and has no problem making claims on certain issues; be wary of this and read this book realizing that there are always two sides to the story (one side is usually right, I'm just saying to be aware that Carville may not always be right).<br />I did find this book quite enjoyable.  Carville weaves funny stories throughout, and the tone of the book is very amusing.  One feature of the book that I especially liked was how Carville throws random little &quot;lagniappe&quot; (Cajun word for &quot;extra&quot;) throughout.  For instance, he includes a recipe for some backyard BBQ, five tips on successful potato salad, and the five worst republicans.<br />One other problem with the book is that because Carville tackles specific issues in politics, it is more often than not outdated.  Nevertheless, one can still learn about key issues by reading this work.  Topics include welfare, tax design (flat tax too), size of government, school privatization and the voucher system, and Carville's take on race, which is especially good.  Carville often uses statistics to back up his democratic ideals on these issues, and although he does not take his analysis to the next level, his defenses are often quite good.  The best chapter in the book discusses succesful government programs (for those that question the efficiency of government).  An appendix to the book includes even moreprograms, and I found these very informative.<br />Carville spends one chapter discussing Clinton's healthcare plan that failed.  Although the chapter begins by saying that &quot;losers deny responsibility and dole out blame,&quot; Carville spends fifteen pages blaming the press for the failure of something he worked on.  Perhaps the press and they're &quot;editorial goops&quot; were to blame, but Carville loses a lot of credibility when he opens with that quote, and then goes on to dole out blame.<br />Overall, the book is a quick, enjoyable read and I recommend it to all interested in politics, regardless if you are a democrat or a republican.	2002-01-02
US	50475679	R2V6M87NR26V0T	1555534406	953132692	Checkbook Democracy: How Money Corrupts Political Campaigns	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good but not required reading	Another reviewer claimed that this should be required reading for all political science students. Although the book and ideas put forth are clear, concise, and powerful, I would only recommend this work to the scholar that is interested in campaign financing. All others would be fine to just read a few articles in Slate or the New York Times on the matter.<br />The book is basically divided into three sections. The first section (chapters one through eight) deals with &quot;how money corrupts political campaigns,&quot; which is fittingly the book's subtitle. Here the author Darrell West, who is a professor at Brown University, addresses this topic wonderfully, providing not only the &quot;how&quot; of money in political campaigns, but also the &quot;who, what, when, and where.&quot; Each chapter discusses in detail various incidents that have either led up to the current situation in campaign finances, like the 1976 Supreme Court decision in Buckley v. Valeo to among other reforms create the Federal Election Commission, or incidents that have recently contributed to the problem. Illegal financing and sneaky financing are explored from both sides (Democrat and Republican) and this is perhaps the biggest strength of the book. <br />The chapters include the following topics: The Willie Horton Independent Expenditure, Issue Advocacy and the Christian Action Network, Contribution Limits, Foreign Nationals and the DNC, the Teamsters and the Clinton White House, Big Tobacco and the RNC, and Non-Profits, Foundations, and Tax-Exempt Organizations.<br />The second part of the book (beginning of chapter 9) deals with why campaign finance is not a hot topic in Washington. The reasons are fairly obvious, but the author does do a nice job of exploring them. The only critique I have is the media factor that West thinks plays into the current system. He argues that journalists make the problem worse by reporting even the slightest campaign blunder, and that this creates cynicism inthe public. The cynicism is there because of corruption by many politicians (Clinton, Nixon, et al) and the media's influence is little at best. <br />The final part of the book (end of chapter 9) is West's suggestions for campaign financing. Reading through the first eight chapters, I was shocked to read about the corruption in campaigns, and kept asking the question of &quot;what can be done?&quot; About fifteen pages is addressed to this question, with West outlining 13 points that could help. The ideas are good; the only problem is that they are mentioned as afterthoughts, when the &quot;what can be done&quot; question really could encompass an entire book. Regardless, this book was a good read, and I do recommmend it to any interested in campaigns.	2001-12-30
US	50475679	R8JRSIV639IMM	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	And so Frodo's adventure begins...	The Lord of the Rings trilogy was my favorite reading as a child, and so with the release of the movies I decided to reread the classics.<br />The Fellowship of the Rings, although slow at times, is the timeless introduction to Frodo's ringbearing adventures.  The story is truly wonderful and original, and I highly recommend this book to all!	2001-12-26
US	50475679	R3AJDWNGXYEN94	0393050629	415694356	Fuzzy Math: The Essential Guide to the Bush Tax Plan	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Highly recommended	I recommend this book to anyone, even though the tax cuts Paul Krugman argues against have already come.  Krugman, who is a New York Time od-ed writer and also a policy professor at Princeton, presents clear reasons why the Bush tax cuts are not a good idea.  <br />Conservatives will find the book biased, which it is since Krugman is pretty democratic.  Although conservatives might be able to argue the political philosophy of progressive versus regressive taxes, they will find it very difficult to challenge the numbers that Krugman presents.  The end conclusion is that Bush has used &quot;fuzzy math&quot; to propose a tax cut and that the money is just not there for such a huge cut.  Krugman is right.<br />Even though the cuts have already come, this book is a great (and quick) read because it gives a clear explanation of social security, medicare, and other issues related to the national budget.  Clear, concise, and easy to understand.	2001-12-20
US	50475679	R2HL7AWBEOHFAE	0684845598	273724840	Hardball: How Politics Is Played, Told by One Who Knows the Game	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Wonderful insight on politics	The back of this book has a self-description: How politics is played by one who knows the game...<br />Yep, this is a &quot;how to&quot; book on politics, and Matthews does have the inside scoop.  He is currently Washington Bureau Chief for the San Francisco Examiner and a syndicated columnist, but has run for office and was the righthand man for years for Speaker of the House Tip O'Neal.  <br />Matthews' Machiavellian approach to politics is evident in the title and throughout the book in the points he makes.  Those points are concise, and can be summed by the titles of most of his chapters.  But by weaving wonderful, insightful, and often humorous stories and quotes throughout, the book is entertaining and a quick read.<br />My favorite chapters were:<br />--It's not who you know; it's who you get to know<br />--It's better to Receive Than to Give - With the opening quote from Ben Franklin, &quot;If  you want to make a friend, let someone do you a favor.&quot;  Or, as Matthews put it, the best way to win a supporter is to get someone to do something for you.  People love to be asked.<br />--Keep your enemies in front of you - With the quote from Lyndon Johnson, &quot;Better to have 'em inside the tent pissin' out than outside pissin' in.&quot;<br />--Don't get mad; don't get even; get ahead - With the quote from Ronald Reagan, &quot;I always throw my golf club in the direction I'm going.&quot;  <br />--Only talk when it improves the silence - &quot;Silence is the ultimate weapon of power.&quot; Charles deGaulle<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone, regardless if you are interested in Washington politics. The hardball lessons that Matthews offers are practical in any real world job, from business to academics to politics.	2001-12-19
US	50475679	R1L0NK388K4MQ8	0262611333	283878317	Pop Internationalism (MIT Press)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Good, concise, but sometimes repetitive	I am no expert on economics, having only taken basic classes in college, but Paul Krugman SEEMS right in his book &quot;Pop Internationalism.&quot;  Krugman, the op-ed columnist for the New York Times and Slate magazine and also a professor at Princeton University, published this collection of essays, articles, and speeches back in 1996.<br />Perhaps the publishing date brings about the only weakness, as much of the talk seems less appropriate for today's economy.  But the reviews of old topics like NAFTA and the Eastern economy is still good information, and presented clearly and concisely.<BR>Krugman put this collection together to inform people of the latest trend of beliefs in international economics, a trend that is dead wrong in Krugman's eyes.  And so we have his term of &quot;pop internationalism.&quot; <br />The basic idea of pop internatiolism is that the U.S. does not depend on international trade as much as the &quot;experts&quot; portray.  Very little of our GNP is actually in exports, and we are seemingly doing just fine as the world market becomes more &quot;global.&quot;  Krugman is so concise in this point that many of the essays actually repeat the point over and over.  This is okay though (at least for me), because I understood it better reading it again.<br />The book is a quick read, and is divided into four secions: A Zero-Sum World, Economic Theory -- Good and Bad, The Emerging World, and Technology and Society.<br />As far as Krugman being correct in his economic thinking, get back to me after I read some of the &quot;pop internaitionalism&quot; literature from the likes of Reich and Thurow.	2001-12-17
US	50475679	R1F73V8E2L6P3M	0674940520	868457889	The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business	Books	3	43	51	N	N	Good information, but not too &quot;edge of your seat&quot; reading	This is basically the business history of the United States (in fact, I read this book for a class entitled that).  It traces the story of how the visible hand of management in business replaced what Adam Smith called the invisible hand of market forces.  The content is very in depth and only the most serious economic historian would find this a good book to read.<br />The book is divided into the following sections:<br />--The traditional processes of production and distribution (plantations, textile mills, factories, etc.)<br />--The revolution in transportation and communication<br />--The revolution in distribution and production<br />--The integration of mass production with mass distribution<br />--The management and growth of the modern industrial enterprise<br />It should be noted that Alfred Chandler, Jr. won the Pulitzer and Bancroft awards for this book.	2001-12-09
US	50475679	R3P8IFSJ3A54IU	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	4	22	26	N	N	Everyone should read this before taking the next step	Although Joshua Harris is a little more conservative than I, the theme of this book is outstanding.  In sum, Harris proclaims that the intended relationship for a man and woman is marriage, and that this union should be God-blessed, God-honoring, and God-centered. As Harris says,<br />&quot;A godly marriage is a man and a woman, side by side in the hand of God's providence, gazing up to Him.&quot; Beautiful.<br />Harris blends very interesting love stories with topics that are vital for people thinking about marriage. These include dating, communications, man and woman's role, sex, past relationships, community involvement in the relationship, and ten questions to ask before you get married.  One major point that Harris weaves throughout the book is that marriage should be the goal in the relationship, not just &quot;dating to date.&quot; <br />Some of what Harris says might sound shockingly conservative.  Harris waited until his wedding day to kiss his bride.  But Harris makes a point to say that this may not be for everyone.  What is important is that you make rules and guidelines to follow so that in your relationship you are not overcome with lust.	2001-11-07
US	50475679	R3807L0ZKVHTU	0789435683	337501435	Complete Bible Handbook: An Illustrated Companion	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great, simple presentation of Bible	This reference book is great for people that are interested in learning more about the Bible.  The book traces the history and culture of the entire Bible, and includes short descriptions and analyses of each book in the Bible.  The best part about the book is the pictures and maps.  Very colorful and informative book!  Great to keep by the bedside or on the coffee table for the occassional read.	2001-11-07
US	50475679	R3SBJ972JIT4HE	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Good fantasy work with Christian parallels	This is the second book in C.S. Lewis' popular Space Trilogy about the adventures of Dr. Ransom of Cambridge, which includes &quot;Out of the Silent Planet,&quot; &quot;Perelandra,&quot; and &quot;That Hideous Strength.&quot;  <br />Set on the planet Perelandra, which we know as Venus, Dr. Ransom must battle the greatest of all human vunerabilities -- temptation.  The story is very similar to the story of the Fall in Genesis, and Lewis twists his story a little bit to add many of his own philosophical and theological views.  This book is recommended for all C.S. Lewis fans as it is one of his more important works.	2001-08-12
US	50475679	R3RUQRPS9YECID	0060162937	188986349	Why Do Dogs Have Wet Noses?: And Other Inponderables of Everyday Life	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very interesting information!	This books provides the reader with answers to questions he might have always wondered about, but didn't know where or who to ask (or even to ask to at all!).  David Feldman has written several other books of &quot;Imponderables,&quot; which is actually a trademarked name for the types of questions posed in the book.<br />My favorite questions included What is the purpose of the orange balls on power lines, Why are there no photographs in the Wallstreet Journal, Why do eyes sometimes turn out read in pictures, Why do so few houses in the south have basements, Why is a piece of tissue paper included in wedding invitations, What function does the necktie serve, Why does soap yield white suds. How do kangaroos clean their pouches, Why does the groom carry the bride over the threshold.<br />This book is a great read.  I would especially recommend keeping it in the bathroom, as it is an ideal book to read a page or two at a time.	2001-08-09
US	50475679	R3AUO1P17XI05R	0553103741	135474617	The Illustrated Brief History of Time, Updated and Expanded Edition	Books	5	28	51	N	N	Awesome!  Easy to understand!	Stephen Hawking's, who is considered by many to be the most brilliant theoretical physicist since Albert Eistein, presents the material from his bestselling work &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; in a format that non-brilliant people can easily comprehend. Hawking's says that just flipping through the book and looking at the pictures will help anyone to grasp many of the fundamental concepts of physics. This is a testament to the wonderful illustrations and diagrams throughout the book that truly help the reader understand the principles outlined. But I would strongly recommend that everyone read this book in its entirety, as it is an important work that will most likely influence one's thinking about the universe. The beginning of the book is spent outlining the ideas and people that have brought the science theories to where they are today. Material includes information on the theories of gravity, mechanics, relativity. Next, Hawking spends time discussing black holes and the big bang theory. I found both of these chapters fascinating and very easy to understand. The chapter about the big bang, entitled &quot;The Origin and Fate of the Universe,&quot; really supported my belief that God created the universe, i.e. &quot;In the beginning...&quot; From the start, Hawking explains that all of science is merely theory and cannot be proven. This has as of late been my problem with science; how do we actually know anything that happened in the past when we can't and never will be able to observe it? Towards the end of the book I found Hawking's &quot;theories&quot; farfetched and unbelievable, although they were interesting. The information on wormholes and time travel seemed absurd to me -- how can time travel be possible when it is impossible to travel at speeds faster than light? Wormholes are not a reasonable explanation. Hawking's suggestion of a ten-dimensional world also went a little beyond science. In any event, these chapters did not take away from the book.<br />An interesting added feature of the book outlines the personal lives of three great scientists -- Einstein, Galileo, and Newton. I found this short section very insightful.<br />Throughout, Hawking weaves the concept of the quest for the &quot;unification of physics,&quot; or combining the theory of relativity with the theory of quantum mechanics. Hawking's closing words in my opinion imply how futile our attempts to fully understand the world we live in are. &quot;If we find the answer to [the unification of physics,] it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason -- for then we would know the mind of God.&quot; Perhaps this is the strongest message Hawking delivers, and ironically it has nothing to do with science, rather the vast greatness of God.BR>An interesting added feature of the book outlines the personal lives of three great scientists -- Einstein, Galileo, and Newton. I found this short section very insightful.<BR>Throughout, Hawking weaves the concept of the quest for the &quot;unification of physics,&quot; or combining the theory of relativity with the theory of quantum mechanics. Hawking's closing words in my opinion imply how futile our attempts to fully understand the world we live in are. &quot;If we find the answer to [the unification of physics,] it would be the ultimate triumph of human reason -- for then we would know the mind of God.&quot; Perhaps this is the strongest message Hawking delivers, and ironically it has nothing to do with science, rather the vast greatness of God.	2001-08-09
US	50475679	R1JRZZ8JS0VYY	0891077642	352388591	Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics	Books	4	19	26	N	N	Great philosophical apology	In his introduction, William Lane Craig explains that apologetics is the branch of Christian theology which tries to rationally justify the claims of Christian faith.  Craig does this in an easy-to-grasp manner, concentrating on the philosophical issues rather than the hard evidence (for an apology with hard evidence, check out Josh McDowell's &quot;The New Evidence&quot;).<br />The book is broken down into eight parts: <br />--How do I know Christianity is true?<br />--The absurdity of life without God<br />--The existence of God<br />--The problem of miracles<br />--The problem of historical knowledge<br />--The historical reliability of the New Testament (by noted scholar Craig Blomberg<br />--The self-understanding of Jesus<br />--The resurrection of Jesus<br />My favorite two sections were &quot;The absurdity of life without God&quot; and &quot;The existence of God.&quot;  In these sections Craig tackles many of the philosophical questions about God, and he does it in a simple and succinct manner.  Another thing that I really liked about this book are the sections at the end of each chapter called &quot;Practical Application.&quot;  In these sections, Craig supplies ways you can use the information in the chapter to share in an evangelistic contact.  Simple and specific dialogue is provided for the reader to use in spreading Christianity.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone that is looking to build his faith.  Craig's final words, the &quot;Ultimate Apologetic,&quot; challenge Christians to use their own life as an example of the best apology.  To do this, follow the two great commandments: &quot;You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind.  This is the great first commandment.  And a second is like it, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.&quot; --Matthew 22:35-40 The ultimate apologetic is: your life.	2001-08-02
US	50475679	RXWBK43D1JVG9	0687168953	627640630	Here I Stand: A Life of Martin Luther (Abingdon Classics Series)	Books	4	45	51	N	N	Good biography of a great man	Time magazine labeled this book &quot;the most readable Luther biography in English.&quot;  This description isn't exactly flattering, but nonetheless, I did find this biography of Martin Luther &quot;readable.&quot;  In fact, I very much enjoyed this book.<br />Martin Luther is truly an amazing man.  For those that know little or nothing about Luther, I would highly recommend this book.  The book traces the life of Luther, from his 95 theses criticizing the Catholic church and the papacy to the Leipzig debate to the Diet of Worms.  Along the way, Bainton outlines in detail the players and ideas of the Reformation.  All angles of the movement are considered, including the different sects that break off from Luther's movement and also the ideas of Erasmus.<br />The parts of the biography that I most enjoyed were about Luther's personal life.  Luther had a wonderful family and home that he led, and it was very interesting to read about his relationship with his wife and children.  The chapter about Luther's struggle for faith and his bouts with depression was also very intriguing.  The theme and title of the book is &quot;Here I Stand,&quot; and by reading this book one becomes fully aware of how hard it was for Luther to stand up for what he believed, but also that what he stood up for is truly amazing and unbreakable.	2001-07-31
US	50475679	R38BDP0SIDCOGS	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	18	24	N	N	The funniest thing I've ever read!	I tried explaining to my friends as I read this book how funny it is, but I truly cannot do it justice.  The only way for a person to understand how funny John Kennedy Toole's Pulitzer Prize-winning masterpiece is to read it for himself. <br />The story revolves around the bumbling, egocentric, slob-like, wordy but intelligent Ignatius Reilly.  The things that Ignatius said made me laugh out loud on countless occassions; I could just picture his lines being spoken in a movie and not being able to contain myself.  Perhaps the book can best be summed up in Toole's own words -- &quot;Goodness only knew what Reilly's personal life was like.  One crazy incident after another, insanity upon insanity.&quot;  Along this insane path that Ignatius constantly follows, the reader meets many other characters that are typical of New Orleans.  The description of the French Quarter, Bourbon Street, and other areas is very fitting.<br />The weakness to the story is the end.  But Toole delivers some serious underlying messages in his work about 20th century society.  Although many of Ignatius' ideas are absurd and satirical, I often found myself thinking that some of his ideas did make clear implications about the society we live in.<br />The bottomline is this book is too funny not to read.	2001-07-31
US	50475679	R15YSAKX7AZISZ	0942637925	765434538	The Complete Book of U.S. Presidents	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Read for a great intro to our country's leaders	This book is a great introduction for all of the U.S. presidents.  The information for each president is presented unbiasedly (as unbiased as information can be at least) and includes a detailed summary of each president's administration, childhood, religious views, education, family, retirement, career before the presidency, military experience, and death.  <br />Two features of this book that I especially liked were the portraits of each president at the beginning of each chapter, and also a ranking of the first 32 presidents (compiled by noted historians in 1962).  Another thing I liked about the book is the section where each president is praised and criticized by his other noted colleagues.  <br />This book is a necessary reference tool for anyone interested in U.S. history or presidents.  I would recommend reading about one president every night before bedtime; that's what I did and now I know all 43 presidents of our great nation.	2001-07-30
US	50475679	R2WMKN79E3NPS2	0375420673	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Great insight on Chinese culture	Ha Jin, who wrote the award-winning book &quot;Waiting,&quot; has a nice collection of short stories in this book.  The thing that I loved about this book is that it illustrated beautifully what communist China is like socially, economically, and politically.  I would recommend this easy read just for that reason.  The stories themselves were not that intriguing; many of them did not even seem to have a plot, but again the insight on Chinese culture made it worth the read.<br />My favorite story in the book is entitled &quot;Saboteur.&quot;  It provides the reader with an O. Henry-style ending, with the climax not coming until the very last sentence.	2001-07-25
US	50475679	R28K2ZXMXI6UFU	0684823756	273762432	George Macdonald: An Anthology : 365 Readings	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Gems from George	Although I have never read George MacDonald before, I figured if he is one of the more influential writers for C.S. Lewis, that I could certainly check out his &quot;best of&quot; book.  <br />The intro from Lewis is wonderful, and explains his regarding MacDonald as &quot;his master.&quot;  Lewis says that he has never written a book in which he hasn't quoted from MacDonald, and one can see after reading this book how many of Lewis' thoughts may have been shaped by MacDonald.<br />My favorite entry in the anthology is entitled &quot;The Knowledge of God,&quot; and reads:<br />To say Thou art God, without knowing what the Thou means -- of what use is it?  God is a name only, except we know God.	2001-07-23
US	50475679	RB2FYIMFUX3Q4	0310449510	385348117	Classical Apologetics	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Good, just a little wordy at times	This was a rather intense read about classical apologetics.  I would highly recommend it to those that have an interest or prior knowledge and understanding of apologetics.  The book is divided into three sections: <br />--Classical Natural Theology, an overview of problem and method --Classical apologetics, the theistic proofs, the deity of Christ, and the infallibility of scripture --Classical critique of presuppositional apologetics<br />The first section seemed very wordy to me, and I had a hard time getting through it.  The second was very interesting, and providing a great summary of different arguments, including the ontological, cosmological and teleological arguments for God.  This chapter also has chapters dealing with the Spirit and Word of God.<br />The third section is probably the best section (although it still lacked brevity).  Chapter 11 is the best chapter in the book; it has great summaries of Luther, Calvin, and Augustine's views on reason as it relates to faith.  All should check out this chapter.	2001-07-20
US	50475679	R5ASJV62YM7XZ	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Timeless story	Although Pearl Buck's story was written seventy years ago, the lessons about mankind are timeless and especially applicable in today's society.  The culture of China presented in the story is always quite interesting.<br />The story is very captivating, as the life of Wang Lung is traced from his youth to old age.  As Wang Lung grows older, he becomes richer and richer through his hard work, and this in turn is amazing to read how he changes.  It implies the concept that Lord Acton speaks of when he says, &quot;All power corrupts and absolute powers corrupts completely.&quot;  Buck is able to show the innate and natural quality of man to always want more.  This concept of greed comes full circle at the end of the book, when Wang Lung's sons have become exactly what brought Wang Lung wealth -- greedy lords that do not remember the value of the land.<br />This idea has deep implications in our own life -- how much do we really need to survive? Oftentimes, as portrayed in the story, it is so easy to want things, but really all we need in a day's wage is enough to put food on the table and shelter over our heads.  Buck does a wonderful job in the Pulitzer price winning work of threading this idea into a story set in historic China.	2001-07-19
US	50475679	R3FIY8ZGXYO9U7	0809238217	804529027	Why Nothing Can Travel Faster Than Light... : And Other Explorations in Nature's Curiosity Shop	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Simple and interesting	This book addresses many intriguing scientific questions.  The Zimmerman brothers address the various topics in a way that non-scientific minded people can easily understand the explanations.<br />My favorite essays included:  Earth Without a Moon, Why is the sky blue, What is the most venomous animal, How did it all begin, Are we alone, What happens to us when we die, Can people be put in cold storage, and of course the essay from which the books gets its name: Can anything travel faster than light?  This book is highly recommended for those curious minds out there that might not have quite the scientific background.	2001-07-15
US	50475679	R2749UQAE1WH3Y	0891072926	940952346	How Should We Then Live? The Rise and Decline of Western Thought and Culture	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Great summary of western world history	&quot;How Should We Then Live?&quot; is a wonderful summary of western world history written from a Christian perspective by Francis Schaeffer.  The people and events presented throughout the work reminded me of my basic European history class I took in high school, but throughout Schaeffer adds his views.<br />Schaeffer is able to discuss many different topics because of the large time range he covers in the book (Roman days until present times).  My favorite issues addressed included: --The concept of charity, in which Schaeffer talks about how the older churches were very compassionate with wealth, but since the Industrial Revolution, many Christians have forgotten this and focused on personal accumulated wealth. --Open vs. closed systems --Evolution and in turn the purpose and meaning of life --La Boheme, which I found very interesting because of the recent movie &quot;Moulin Rouge.&quot;  This popular opera by Puccini presented the fundamental concepts of Rousseau -- autonomous freedom leads the hero to fight all of society's standards, values, and restraints. --Origin of life (i.e.  &quot;In the beginning...&quot;), including the idea of pantheism. --And perhaps my favorite came on the topic of existentialism.  Friedrich Nietzsche wrote,  &quot;Oh man! Take heed of what the dark midnight says: I slept, I slept -- from deep dreams I awoke: The world is deep -- and more profound than day would have thought. Profound in her pain -- Pleasure -- more profound than pain of heart,  Woe speaks; pass on. But all pleasure seeks eternity --  a deep and profound eternity.&quot;<br />Yes, it is the idea that we all seek the pleasure of eternity.  Nietzsche said that God is dead, and thus he believed man is dead.  It's not surprising that Nietzsche went insane!  Without God, what are you left with?  Nietzsche said that you are left with &quot;systems.&quot;  In today's world we might call them &quot;game plans.&quot;  Schaeffer probably can summarize the implications a lotbetter than I can:<br />&quot;A person can erect some sort of structure, some type of limited frame, in which he lives, shutting himself up in that frame and not looking beyond it.  The game plan can be one of a number of things.  It can be filling your life with material possessions.  Or it can be a scientist concentrating on some small point of science so that he does not have to think of any of the big questions, such as why things exist at all.  It can be a skier concentrating for years on knocking one-tenth of a second from a downhill run.&quot;<br />The final chapter of the book answers the question of &quot;How Should We Then Live?&quot; and although Schaeffer's suggestions are not that specific, he does get to the very heart of living, culture, and our world's future.	2001-07-13
US	50475679	R1Z5IY9W5KX287	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful love story	Sparks beautifully captures what we all long for -- a relationship so complete that it spans everything -- time, sickness, distance.  He truly makes us see what a special, powerful, and eternal gift love is.  This story is touching and is a great read on a lazy summer Sunday, lying in a hammock under a tree with a cool glass of sweet tea nearby.	2001-07-09
US	50475679	R3RFAVRIFAWVDY	0520225015	648491370	Discovering Dinosaurs: Evolution, Extinction, and the Lessons of Prehistory, Expanded and Updated	Books	3	3	15	N	N	What do we really know about dinosaurs?	After visiting the National Musuem of Natural History, I wondered about many of the claims that the museum made.  So I decided to read a book about the &quot;terrible lizards&quot; and found out what I had guessed -- the study of dinosaurs and their fossils is not an exact science and many of the fundamental questions we have about them cannot be answered, including:<br />How old are they?  How fast were they?  How big were they?  What did they look like?  What color were they?  What is their relation to birds?  How are fossils aged?  Do we have any dinosaur DNA?<br />The authors of this book do a good job at trying to answer many of these questions about dinosaurs, but in the end their explanations merely lay out the science of guesswork.  The first part of this book is fifty questions about dinosaurs, and I would recommend this section to anyone interested in the subject.  The next two sections are about dinosaurs digs and specific dinosaur species, and is a little bit extensive for the &quot;casual dino reader.&quot;	2001-07-08
US	50475679	RSOYNK0Z42RHI	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful story with deeper meaning	After reading a few of the other reviews for this book, I realize how great this book really is because of the lessons it implies, but mostly because of the audience the book has the power to touch.   Written for children, this Newberry award winner is a truly wonderful story.  Similar to the classic &quot;Brave New World,&quot; the story idea is quite original, but the themes are what make the book so important. A ten year old reader commented that the book is confusing, and although I do not agree, I would say that the short book packs a powerful punch!  This would be a wonderful book for family discussion, class assigned reading, or even a bible study.  Recommended to audiences of all ages and of my favorites!	2001-07-06
US	50475679	R3S7AMC4RDKQI8	0785243631	698530272	The New Evidence That Demands A Verdict Fully Updated To Answer The Questions Challenging Christians Today	Books	4	176	215	N	N	Great reference	This is a great reference book &quot;to answer questions challenging Christians in the 21st century.&quot;  The book is divided into four parts.  Part 1 deals with the historical reliability of the Bible and it is probably the best section of the book.  McDowell does a great job establishing the reliability of the Bible.  Part 2 and Part 3 are the case for Jesus, and the case for and against Christianity, respectively.  Although these sections were good, the evidence was not as powerful as in part 1.  Part 4 is a section entitled &quot;Truth or Consequences&quot; and explores other philosophies such as agnostism, atheism, mysticism, etc. <br />McDowell does a good job quoting other experts throughout his book, and the reader is sure to find other books that you will want to explore further.  I would not recommend reading this book in one sitting; I read a chapter every night before bedtime, and even that was too much at times. Perhaps the best way to read this book would be using it as a reference tool.	2001-07-06
US	50475679	R2Q1CUMVMROA07	0310219221	73938127	Finding God at Harvard	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Wide array of topics	This is a compilation of essays from various Harvard alumnus and is quite an interesting read.  Although I ended up skipping a few of the essays, I generally found most of the topics enjoyable and enlightening.  Monroe edited the book to show that Harvard is not the godless institution that it sometimes gets labeled as, and the personal testimonies and stories are a great display of the university's true spirit.   My favorite essays were: Questions in a Quiet Moment; After the Gang, What?; Disillusioned; A Professor Under Reconstruction; Facing Death, Embracing Life; Perfectionism, Shame, and Liberation; Christ and Karma: A Hindu's Quest for the Holy; Power and Gender at the Divinity School; In Sorrow, Joy; and Feasting at the Table of the Lord.	2001-07-06
US	50475679	R3MIOZFSQPLNK6	0486272842	843663556	Great Love Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good read from many greats	I would not consider myself a big fan of poetry, in fact this is the first book of poetry I've ever read.  But I would highly recommend this book because it contains many classic love poems and authors.  There are many poems in this little collection that will move anyone who has experienced love.	2001-06-28
US	50475679	R1WXUN0YFAEIXX	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Gatsby wants what we all want	I decided to read The Great Gatsby because it is a classic, and when I was supposed to read it in high school, I got the Cliff Notes instead.  The story still did not impress me much, but it is a short read and well worth it in the end because the message is one we can all learn from.  Gatsby is in search of his true love, which is something all of us look for in life - that relationship of heroic proportions that seems almost surreal and timeless.  Perhaps the last page is the best clincher of the book: \\"Gatsby believed in the green light (true love), the orgiastic future that year by year recedes before us.  It eluded us then, but that's no matter - tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther...and one fine morning ----- So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.\\" How true it is...beat on my friends.	2001-06-28
US	50475679	RD8QM950ABCJE	080280036X	809238569	Studies in the Sermon on the Mount	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Read it over and over and over...	This book is absolutely amazing.  I had studied the sermon on the mount a little bit prior to reading this, but Lloyd-Jones collection of sermons will truly inspire and challenge you in your daily life.  Everyone should read this, and read it again.  I read this in one sitting for the first time, but I would recommend reading it at a slower pace, perhaps a chapter per week because it is very profound and challenging material.  Great book for a bible study.	2001-06-28
US	50475679	RH86WPIJRBCOQ	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Classic work that should be read by all	I read this book because it is a classic, and I'm very glad I read it. At first I didn't like the book that much; the story is not that captivating.  But wait until the last chapter -- it will truly knock you on your bottom!  The book is a translation from Russian, so I often times found the language a little dull (or perhaps it was just straightfoward). I would recommend reading the last chapter of the book at least several times. It is here that Dostoevsky drives home an important point for humanity -- Jesus died for our sins, no matter how great they are. If we accept him in our hearts and repent, then we are cleansed and made new again. This is what Raskolnikov realizes at the end of the story, and thus the &quot;subject of a new story&quot; can imply his rebirth in Christianity. Looking back on that lesson, the book is worth the read, even if you have to trudge through it at times like I did.	2001-06-25
US	50475679	R1U8MJR8DED1LM	0404162401	985957394	Holy Bible by John Wycliffe and His Followers	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Truly amazing	I was fortunate enough to read through the original version of this bible at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.  and it was truly unbelievable.  The bible measured about 12&quot; by 18&quot; and came in four very stout volumes.  I flipped through checking out my favorite verses, in both the Wycliffe and Purvey translations, which appear side-by-side.  My favorite verse, 1 Cor. 3:11 read like this, &quot;For no man may sette another foundement, outtaken that that is sett, which is Crist Jhesus.&quot;  Anyone interested in the history of the bible should check this version out if you are in the D.C. area.  Also, just a plug, but the Library of Congress also has the Guttenburg bible on display. And just as a side note, I do not agree with the previous review.  I will not try to woo the masses, but I urge anyone who happens to read these reviews to research and decide for themselves if Jesus claimed to be the Son of God.  Recent authors to check out would be Strobel and McDowell (very simple).  More thorough works are of course available.  Don't forget to research the Dead Sea scrolls!	2001-06-23
US	50475679	R3DQZU7OFBA15M	0764562495	152338771	The Unofficial Guide to Washington, D.C. (Unofficial Guides)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Best book on D.C.	I just took a trip to D.C. and checked out all the books out there.  This one is the best. Simple, concise, and informative.  Nice features such as rating different sites for different age groups.  Also has great explanation of subway systems, tellig you the closest station for all sites.	2001-06-23
US	50475679	R24I92YPC8LLYD	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Slow at times but well worth it in the end	Lewis continues to amaze me in all of his works.  This is his autobiography, but actually his account of his conversion from agnostism to Christianity.  The first few chapters are a little slow, although it is interesting to find out how this genius grew up.  It also neat to find out who Lewis' greatest influences were -- his teachers, Chesterton, Tolkien, Johnson, Herbert, MacDonald.  The chapter &quot;Checkmate&quot; contains the meat of the work and if one were to read any of the book, this portion is exceptional.  In fact, I read that chapter over and over and over.  Yep.	2001-06-23
US	50475679	R1LT3OVCT7GWJ8	0761519645	910224725	God: The Evidence: The Reconciliation of Faith and Reason in a Postsecular World	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Much better apologies out there	This is evidence provided by the author that he studied to go from an atheist to a Christian.  Although there are many interesting facts and points, the book lacked any connection and Glynn should really try his hand at something besides writing.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R2FL2YLX85A933	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	My favorite book	Amazingly creative story that brings up huge questions about the meaning of life, happiness, and God. Bernard Marx lives in the &quot;perfect&quot; new world and visits New Mexico and ends up bringing back a savage. The savage poses many of the questions that the reader must ultimately wrestle with.<br />The story is based off of Aldous Huxley's theory that drugs are the solution for mankind; give healthy, normal people drugs and they will derive the true meaning of life.  In short, drugs can help people have a great experience anytime they wish.  The drug in Brave New World is called &quot;soma,&quot; which in ancient East Hindu myths was the drug used to keep the gods content.  It is interesting to note that Huxley was a firm believer in the concept presented in Brave New World -- he made his wife promise to give him LSD when he was dying so that he could reach a truth in his own head.  Ironically, it is Huxley's view of life that tells me that there must be a higher purpose, and this point is truly driven home through the Savage in the story.  The Savage sees the fleeting and meaningless moments in the &quot;brave new world,&quot; and this really makes the reader think about what truly matters in life.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	RQ5KSMHEA6FZD	0553275976	678579754	The Bonfire of the Vanities	Books	3	1	2	N	N	80s commentary	The frank story delivered by Wolfe has a powerful message that rings true in today's society, it was just a little long - 700 pages (I often found my self sifting through meaningless paragraphs).  Sherman McCoy, who is a rich Wallstreet aristocrat, runs over a Bronx city hoodlum after being threatened.  It is a commentary of 1980s society, and can be extended into the present time.  Materialism, egotism, hypocrisy...even the middle-class assistant D.A., Kramer, is subject to these human flaws as he uses the case for personal gain and glory, as does the DA in his re-election.  McCoy sums up a major point in the book in saying to his lawyer, &quot;Your self -- I don't know how to explain it, but if, God forbid, anything like this ever happens to you, you'll know what I mean.  Your self...is other people, all the people you're tied to, and it's only a thread.&quot;  Of course, if this thread is cut, like it is for McCoy, what becomes of that &quot;self?&quot;  Wolfe's story becomes a Greek tragedy on the major flaw of humans -- finding their identity in people, possessions, and power.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R1I58HB9A51YIN	0688174418	123493690	A Charge to Keep	Books	2	15	26	N	N	Perhaps I should check out what Molly has to say	W's autobiography leading into the 2000 presidential election.  Good insight into Bush's heart and I like him a lot better now (I voted for Gore), but I was never sure what I could believe.  At times it seemed like the book was one big endorsement for his campaign.  Additionally, I didn't take much from the biography as far as lessons about life go; Bush was good at bouncing around randomly from various events in his life.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R14LRB31S44SM0	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good evidence for Jesus	This book is a Chicago Tribune editor's personal investigation on the evidence of Jesus. The great thing about the book is that Strobel interviews many experts in various areas of study - theology, archeology, and more. This not only provides many insightful and expert opinions, but it also leads to other books to read.  <br />The book is a quick read for an apology, and Strobel captures the reader's attention by telling different legal cases he has covered in the past, and then relating the case to the &quot;case for Christ.&quot;  In the end Strobel provides much evidence and proof to Jesus Christ.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R3IGPRRH2A9DIO	0802806414	864999995	The Pilgrim's Regress	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Wonderful, but not Lewis's best	This is an allegory to the road Lewis traveled in becoming a Christian.  The traveler on the road encounters many different views represented as characters, like Ms. Enlightenment or Reason.  In the end John comes to a huge canyon and must take a dive - a leap of faith - which is representative of a person's repentance.  The journey back is very different than the journey that he took, obviously representing the different life of a Christian.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R2CZ0R3EFLUGNM	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great classic	Traces life of convict Jean Val Jean.  Wonderful story of humanity and compassion.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R1BYTHH0OQXTX6	0898704448	236877231	The Everlasting Man	Books	3	6	21	N	N	Deep, deep, deep	Chesterton, who was part of the group known as the Inklings (C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, Charles Williams, among others), provides his apology for Christianity.  Although some of his ideas are easy to grasp, much of the book is hard to get through and even incomprehendable at times.  Perhaps this is because of the age of the book (it was published in the early 20th century) or maybe I should just read it when I am older?	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R2PA3R7J0GADFF	0306809907	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, A Team, And A Dream	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Old football players read this	The book that the teeny-bopper film Varsity Blues is based off of, this is a must read for any former high school football player that played in a traditionally strong football program.  Bissinger vividly and realistically paints a picture of what it is like to be an immortalized 18-year football star.  Although he is sometimes wordy in his accounts of menial details, like the West Texas oil industry, his segments on football are amazingly accurate and allow someone who has never experienced it firsthand to see the work, emotion, bond, and joy from the sport at the high school level.  Many times I found myself taken back to the locker room, experiencing those magical nights that grown men dream about once more	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R341Z7IN8J5FG8	0890510377	57759054	Scientific Case for Creation	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great intro to scientific creationism	The title says it all.  Morris's introduction to the science behind creation is brief, simple, easy to read, and understandable with a little bit of a science background.  Morris is concise with his strong points, and although the book was written in the 70s and new evidence is certainly out there, his points seem eternal and really make the case of evolution seem doubtful.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R1BE4SV2FAZUMX	0060688246	74501038	A Severe Mercy	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A definite read for young lovers	Van and Davy fall in love and they follow the \\"Shining Barrier\\" until both become Christians.  Davy dies tragically and Van grieves, but comes to understand her love for the Lord and her death actually saved him from one day hating God and Davy because of jealousy (her love for God was stronger and interfered with the Shining Barrier).  This is a wonderful story and should be a must read for all young couples, married or not.  We all strive for the \\"inloveness\\" that Davy and Van have; their relationship provides insight on how to go about it.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R1CSMNFYAT907U	0691048746	809229684	June 8, 2004--Venus in Transit	Books	3	1	8	N	N	Interesting, simple astronomy	This book traces the history of the Venus transit, which is when Venus transits between the sun and earth, thus casting the planet's shadow on the sun.  Happening only every 121 years, Maor explores the lives of the many scientists that studied the Venus transit in order to come up with an estimation of the astral unit (the distance between the sun and earth...about 93 million miles), including Galileo, Hell, Copernicus, Kepler, Brahe, and more.  The book is very good, and one is left marveling at astronomy and eager to the coming of the transit, but Maor is very extensive in his history at times.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	RAG30P3C8Q114	0385483724	683164590	Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus (Hinges of History)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	very interesting and thorough	This is a very detailed historical account of the world before and after Jesus.  Starts with Romans and goes into Greeks, and then goes into the lives of many of the apostles, including Paul (Saul), Luke, John, and more.  The section on Paul is a must for all Christians interested in Paul's works.  Drives home the point that Christians are held together by a bond because of Jesus Christ, a bond that makes us brothers (\\"koinonia\\" in Greek) and should make us give freely to each other.  For this reason, Christianity is a sort of communism; a great example of this is the group Cahill describes in Italy.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	RQ91CHCXLRBK7	0743411463	538304275	The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Good tech book	Berkeley astronomer tracks a German spy through a maze of computer espionage.  Interesting information about computer technology and security, but the suspense of the chase was not all that good.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R2T22RX765MAC4	0060670770	420203629	The Mind of the Maker	Books	3	35	40	N	N	fresh	Sayers claims this is not her apology, and it is not, but she deals with many theological concepts in this work.  Sayers wonderfully depicts the idea of the Trinity by comparing it to literature.  The ideas are fresh, and profound, which makes the book tough to get through at times.  The chapter on God being analogical is great and should be read by all.  It perfectly captures the idea that God is truly unknowable until we die, which is why so many of us are on a quest to grow closer to him throughout our life.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R3O9GNL1DEN6GU	0785273425	888112834	The Sacred Romance: Drawing Closer to the Heart of God	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Looking for something amazing?	A deep work that explores the desire in man for something of heroic proportions, whether a beautiful sunset, an awesome relationship with the opposite sex, or one's walk with the Lord, the book lays out how to walk the road to find the love we all yearn for.  Many profound ideas make this a good book to read through once and then study a few months later.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R17FNXK68ITLIV	0006240682	35633643	Fern-Seed and Elephants and Other Essays on Christianity	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Wide area of topics from Lewis	Different essays about Christianity, including evolution, the efficacy of prayer, and more.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	RWM2J1PTZ7UZG	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A must read for all Christians	This is the meat of Lewis's apology for Christianity.  One of his main arguments is that we all have something inside of us that makes us know what is right.  This cannot be taught by our parents, but is inherent and innate.  There must be a higher power - God.  All of Lewis's works are extremely profound; he has the knack for saying so much in so few words and this is especially the case in this book.	2001-06-17
US	50475679	R2CCRG82YCYBRZ	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gaines at his best	This is the story of a lost young kid wrongfully put to death in a small Louisiana town in the late 1940s.  Grant is forced into visits with Jefferson by his aunt so that Jefferson can die a man, but it turns out doing both of the men good as they learn an important lesson about life - the hope in Jesus.  A memorable analogy that Grant describes to Jefferson involves that of an old piece of wood turned into a slingshot by a whittler; Jefferson needs to be that old piece of wood and become something new.  Of course, sometimes we are all that piece of wood and in order to become the slingshot, we have to decide on our own to do it.	2001-06-17
