US	50475218	R1KE3QB4TAPIBJ	0553576488	709020030	Stolen Hearts	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	In light of the reviews already written on &quot;Stolen Hearts,&quot; I thought it would be a really great book.  I was disappointed.  At best,this book is mediocre.  Michelle Martin is not at all like SEP, as one fellow reviewer suggested. And while this story does have an interesting premise, Martin did not spin the story in a way that really caught my attention.  Moreover, Tess Alcott is a highly unbelievable creature, and to make matters worse she is incredibly pretensious.  As for Luke Mansfield, he is a static character, boring and completely lifeless.  On the other hand, &quot;Stolen Hearts&quot; is a great improvement from &quot;Stolen Moments,&quot; also written by Michelle Martin.  So for anyone reading this review, I suggest you get the book from the library.  Don't waste your money on this one.	2001-03-23
US	50475218	R2T4ZILBLFNAIF	0553576496	250802869	Stolen Moments	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Please, take up a new profession!	I am sorry to say that I have to disagree with the majority of readers.  I found &quot;Stolen Moments&quot; an absolute dud.  While Harley Jane Miller is an interesting character, Duncan Lang is a whiny nobody who keeps making references to some comtess so and so.  Jeez, who cares?  More importantly, Michelle Martin cannot write!  Her syntax is terrible.  And for me to notice is a pretty big deal, since I'm usually easy to please.  From the looks of it, nobody edited this book before it went to print.  Furthermore, the premise of this story was so improbable it made me want to gag.  About half-way through the book I put it down in favour of something else.  That's how much it had me enthralled.  If Michelle Martin insists on writing, she should stick to lesbian erotica...as for the mainstream, please spare us.	2001-03-23
US	50475218	RDR4XSSRRTJU	0380975726	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful!	The worst thing about reading an SEP novel is that eventually the story ends.  Really, it's the saddest thing and I am always left wanting to know more.  But SEP outdid herself with &quot;This Heart of Mine.&quot;  She really stretched her creative juices by creating a parallel dialogue between Daphne and Benny and their little friends.  Although Molly and Kevin aren't my favourite characters, this story was really sweet.  And it reintroduced Phoebe and Dan to readers!  I heartily recommend &quot;THOM&quot; to readers, you will not be disappointed!	2001-02-11
US	50475218	RBGST8U9XGSAW	067165831X	786049421	Hot Shot	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent!	Nobody can say that SEP takes it the easy way out.  Every one of her books is written with love and care.  In addition, &quot;Hot Shot,&quot; is just wonderful!  Watching Suzanne's growth is painful and emotional as she shifts from suppressed daddy's girl to corporate leader.  Yet I just wanted to root for her the whole way.  It was especially interesting to see how Suzanne and Sam fell in love and then grew out of it.  The relationships twist and turn and show real growth.  It's not like the typical romance where the hero and the heroine fall in love and stay that way forever.  Moreover, Paige was an interesting addition to the story.  I couldn't help disliking her at the beginning, but she too was a little girl suffering inside.  And Yank, oh Yank, what a sweet dweeb.  But he has a happy ending too.  I only wish that there had been more written on Suzanne and Mitch.  I didn't want this book to end.  As for the ending, it is sheer wit!	2001-02-07
US	50475218	R3BZ4GDKTQXCX4	0373287917	939233342	Bargain	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fluffy, but interesting	This film is the archtypical regency romance.  There is the playboy duke and of course, the beautiful and virtuous heroine - subordinated and yet spirited.  Although the premise of this story is highly unrealistic, this novel is a diversion from everyday work and allows the reader to drift into the fantasy world.  There are, however, a few problems with this story that prevented me from giving it five stars.  The lovers lack cohesive communication.  Call me a 90s girl, but I definitely think that the misunderstanding between Ashleigh and Brett was prolonged unnecessarily.  If the two understood an inkling about each other a lot of things in this story would not have taken place.  Moreover, there were a couple of scenes that were reminiscent of the era when romance writers incorporated bodice-ripping scenes into their work.  However, put all these flaws aside and let your mind drift into an unreal world...it is a pleasant adventure.	2001-02-01
US	50475218	R2B9UJG9PDDW5	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Wonderful World of Susan Elizabeth Phillips!	This story was very interesting because it challenges the political structure of the American executive.  Specifically, Dennis Case, former fictional president of the United States was gay!  Imagine that.  I wonder how America would handle a gay president?  Moreover, the main character Nealy eventually becomes president, which is even more gender-bending.  While, &quot;First Lady&quot; was a little far-fetched, it was nevertheless, filled with witty dialogue and more importantly, wholly entertaining!<br />Nealy Case needs a break, desperately.  Thus, she plots to escape the White House, which has become her prison.  She does this by walking out, plain as day - only she is disguised as an old woman.  Of course, the story would end if she was not confronted with a major obstacle.  That is, her Chevy gets stolen...maybe because she left her keys in the ignition n'est-ce pas?  This leads Nealy into hitching a ride with Mat Jorik, who of all things, is a journalist, albeit a somewhat tarnished journalist.  Anyways, I don't want to spoil the story for anyone.  Simply put, this story is very lovely.	2001-01-25
US	50475218	RURUPW2XHRA0B	0826212875	149999795	The Reagan Reversal: Foreign Policy and the End of the Cold War	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Very interesting and informative	I've never been a Reagan fan, but Beth Fischer portrays this former president in a way that explicates Reagan's many complexities.  Essentially, Fischer debunks the myth that Reagan was an ignorant and passive president.  While, he did make his share of mistakes, especially in foreign policy, Fischer nevertheless, argues the leader-driven theory.  She supports this assertion by attributing the reversal in American policy toward the Soviet Union solely on Reagan.  By the same token, she blames Reagan for the belligerent and hawkish approach America took toward the Soviet Union in the early 1980s.  She does not, however, ignore the part that anti-Soviet hardliners such as Weinberger and Richard Perle played in forming Soviet policy.  Instead, Fischer argues that Reagan played the determing factor within the National Security Planning Group, which was responsible for forming American foreign policy.  Specifically, this committee was split down the middle by two factions.  On the one hand, there was Schultz and his coalition, which supported a conciliatory approach toward the Soviet Union in addition to favouring arms control.  On the other hand, there was Weinberger and Perle who charged the Soviets with the intention of conspiring to military and strategic superiority.  In addition, she cites the Iran-contra affair as one of the many examples in which Reagan played a dynamic role in forming foreign policy.  After all, this affair went against the good sense of his advisers.  And the Strategic Defence Initiative was definitely a presidential initiatve.  More importantly, Fischer argues that the turning point in Soviet-American relations was not set into motion by the Soviets, but by Reagan.  She pinpoints the Able Archer 83 incident as the point where Reagan realized that his aggressive stance might precipitate a nuclear war with the Soviet Union.  Moreover, this occured near the end of 1983, whereas many other analysts argue that Gorbachev (who came into power in 1985) was responsible for decreasing tensions between the two superpowers.<br />Conversely, Fischer's analysis cannot help by highlight some of Reagan's political mishaps.  He did indeed seem to be a well-intentioned, but uninformed loose cannon.  SDI wasn't as well received as he might have liked it because he failed to consult the scientific community save for Edward Teller and people loyal to his vision.  In addition, he failed to consult America's NATO allies, whose very existence depended on the existing nuclear strategy of MAD.  Moreover, the Administration was somewhat confused and lacking cohesion with regard to SDI because the president failed to consult the DOD and the State Department.  For instance, Fischer points out how Reagan did not even notify Schultz until two days before his speech and as for the rest of his cabinet, they found out the day of.  Furthermore, his spontaneity, or so it seemed to be, caused him to make promises or suggestions which contradicted the very essence of SDI.  For example, he insinuated that the United States might share SDI technologies with Europe and the Soviet Union.  However, he initiated SDI because it was something the United States could do unilateraly.  Moreover, he later said that he would not give anyone the veto over SDI, which defeated the purpose of multilateral sharing.  <br />While, I have gone on for long enough about &quot;the Reagan Reversal,&quot; I must say that this is a well researched piece of work and more importantly, it was a pleasure to read.	2001-01-25
US	50475218	R1E9GBM3Y9WP2X	055329315X	4390139	Reckless	Books	5	26	27	N	N	If only there were more like these...	Au contraire, &quot;Reckless,&quot; is by far one of Amanda Quick's better novels.  While she has gained a large following in the past years, it is her earlier novels like &quot;Reckless,&quot; which inspires me to try her newer books, which, by the way always disappoint me.  Who was it that praised quality versus quantity?  Well, whoever said it, kudos!  Quick aka JAK seems to churn out book after book, but her newer releases have just lost the lustre of her old books.  At least &quot;Reckless&quot; centers around something different than mystic jewels and ancient arts.  Jeez, the same theme gets boring after a while.  On the other hand, &quot;Reckless,&quot; deals with a defiant lady determined to make her own way in society.  Although this is not a new theme, the premise of ancient Arthurian legends is a breath of fresh air.  Sigh, if only there were more books like this one...	2001-01-25
US	50475218	RY5XX0SCXW4HU	0380807149	969713177	All Shook Up	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Anderson's &quot;All Shook Up&quot;	I found &quot;All Shook Up&quot; a little disappointing.  This, however, is because I was comparing it to one of Susan Anderson's earlier novels entitled &quot;Baby I'm Yours.&quot;  So far, her latest two books just haven't lived up to it.  But on the scale of good and bad books, &quot;All Shook Up&quot; definitely passes with flying colours.  There is something to be said about Anderson's writing which is very attractive.  She writes with humour and candour, which I find rare in the romance genre.  So many authors simply cannot write, or get caught up in the research that their end product reads like a boring dissertation.  I simply cannot believe the amount of garbage which gets published.  This, however, is not the case with Anderson!	2001-01-17
US	50475218	R2G9W08A16XS2D	0679750169	605770214	The Romance of Tristan and Iseult (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Exhausting and Emotional	Wow!  This is a story that will touch your soul!  Bedier takes the reader away into a mythical world of lords and ladies, dragons, giants and fairy bells... In addition, the story of Tristan and Iseult challenges common concepts of loyalty and love.  How can Tristan claim loyalty to King Mark when he commits adultery with his wife?  And how can the lovers be blamed when they fell in love through deception?  Is God really on their side?  I felt so many emotions when I read this.  Indeed, I felt a sort of revulsion and yet, admiration for the hero.  And finally, despite the lovers deaths, I realized that love does conquer all.	2001-01-17
US	50475218	R290BYIUGKEVV0	0226264017	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Persuasive	&quot;Capitalism and Freedom&quot; is certainly a comprehensive and cohesive piece of work that any person, including non-economics majors could pick up and read.  Milton Friedman writes in such a straight-forward, minimalist manner that I am looking forward to reading other books by him.  The thing that impresses me most with regard to Friedman's work is that he views every issue from all angles, he puts forth the argument and the counter-argument and allows the reader the freedom to choose the best approach.	2000-10-23
US	50475218	RQUVDPTJTGMSC	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	4	12	24	N	N	Fairly Good Analysis with a Few Minor Problems	I'm not sure to what extent Samuel P. Huntington actually believes his thesis.  Or if he's merely posing a provocative question for students to think about.  However, he hypothesizes that future conflicts will not be ideological or economic, but conflicts between nations and groups of different civilizations.  <br />A problem with his analysis is that he assumes that civilizations begin and end with clear fault lines, when this is not so.  Moreover, as Fouad Ajami points out, Huntington assumes he has found &quot;his civilizations whole and intact, watertight under an eternal sky.&quot;  In truth, there is no place on the Earth that has not been permeated by Western influence.  Joseph Conrad understood this when he wrote &quot;Youth.&quot;  The young Marlowe knew that even the most remote civilization had been made and remade by the West, and taught new ways.<br />Indeed, Huntington has an unusual idea of what constitutes civilizations.  He divides the world into eight major civilizations: Western, Confucian, Japanese, Islamic, Hindu, Slavic-Orthodox, Latin American, and possibly African.  If civilization is defined by common history, language, traditions and religion, then why isn't Latin America part of the West?  Latin America like North America was settled by Europeans who brought with them European languages and a European vision of Judeo-Christian religion, law, literature and gender roles (Kirkpatrick et al).<br />Huntington writes off the importance of states in favour of civilizations.  From a realist point of view, this is surely ludicrous.  The international system is about struggle for survival among states, not civilizations.  Furthermore, civilizations do not control states, but rather, states control civilizations.  In addition, while Huntington identifies civilizations as more than one nation state, it is important to define terms correctly.  Arguably, there are no nation states.  It is more a matter of nations within a state.<br />In favour of Huntington's argument, he does astutely point out that there is an increasing movement against Westernization.  Specifically, one hears references toward &quot;Asianization&quot; in Japan, &quot;Hinduization&quot; of India, &quot;re-Islamization&quot; of the Middle East and most recent, &quot;Russianization&quot; of the former Soviet Union.  But the problem that exists within Huntington's argument is that he underestimates modernity and the power of secularism.  Secularism like westernization has been internalized in even the most remote places (Ajami).  And the West, is certainly not a unitary or homogenous body with regard to religion and culture.  <br />Huntington's essay shifts gears when he starts to criticize the West.  He is right in pointing out that the West uses a double standard with regard to allies and enemies.  Why did the West fail to protect the Bosnian's against the Serbs?  And why did Israel get away with violating UN sanctions?  The truth is there is no universal citizen.  The norms and laws of the West are not of much relevance to the rest of the world.  There certainly is an &quot;us&quot; versus &quot;them&quot; dilemma in world politics.  The Security Council does not represent the world, and the IMF and the World Bank reflect the interests of the West, which are not necessarily to help Southern states.  Moreover, the US is undoubtedly the economic and political hegemon of the world.  When the US collaborates with Britain and France in security issues and collaborates with Germany and Japan in economic issues it certainly looks like a case of Northern hob-nobbing and exclusion.<br />While America is a proponent of nuclear nonproliferation, it can afford to be in this position because it already possesses all the cards.  On the other hand, Third World states argue the case for self-defence.<br />In refutation of Huntington, he misreads the Gulf War and attributes it to a sinister Islamic movement.  He actually buys the argument put out by Saddam Hussein and his supporters; it is the West against Islam.  Of course, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei didn't help when he proclaimed a holy war against the West.  But scholars are well aware of Iraq's reasons for invading Kuwait and the reasons for the West' reaction.  As Kishore Mahbubani points out, of all the conflicts between Muslims and pro-Western forces, the Muslimes are losing badly, whether they be Azeris, Palestinians, Iraqis, Iranians or Bosniaks.  With so much disunity, the Islamic world is not about to coalesce into a single force.  Further, the West is not the target of Islamic fundamentalism, but their own governments.<br />Another problem with Huntington's thesis is that while he proposes that civilizations will be a threat in the future, why haven't they been a threat in the past?	2000-10-23
US	50475218	R1YXBFUCTZVFCT	0521638801	400372399	The Political Economy of NATO: Past, Present and into the 21st Century	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Analysis	&quot;The Political Economy of NATO&quot; is aimed towards a broad audience.  It is a comprehensive analysis that students of both international relations and economics will understand.  Although there were parts that were a bit akward and points reiterated quite a few times throughout, it provided me with a better understanding of burden-sharing, free-riding and the advantages and disadvantages of NATO expansion.  I found the economic models to be interesting and helpful as well as the charts relaying information on budgets and accounts.  I'm not sure if the cost of the book if worth the actual read, but if you know anyone who has this book or if you can get it from the library, I would recommend doing so!	2000-10-23
US	50475218	R3BADXTUWYX10S	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	She Never Fails to Make Me Laugh and Cry!	Laughter and tears are the two best ingredients essential for a great novel.  SEP never fails to deliver!  &quot;Nobody's Baby But Mine,&quot; is a real tear-jerker.  Dr. Jane Darlington desperately wants a child, but she's a brainy physicist who thinks she's a sexual dud.  Au contraire!  Jane meets Cal Bonner, or more specifically, targets Cal Bonner to be the unwitting father of her child.  Who would have thought that America's top physicist and a football player would get together?  At first, I found Cal to be very juvenile because of his preference for young brainless women, but the reader will discover the reason behind his silly preference and it really just makes you laugh.  This, along with other incidents add humour to the story.  Although Cal seems brash and inconsiderate towards Jane, I think that he loved her almost from the start.  There was definitely an attraction!  It was just a matter of revealing truths and growing to trust each other.  I've read &quot;Noboby's Baby But Mine,&quot; about three or four times.  This surely predicates a great novel!	2000-10-21
US	50475218	R1BUYNPWNAJ04C	0380776847	400994620	Heaven, Texas (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Keeper!	Plain Jane, Gracie Snow.  That's how everyone views her, but maybe that's because that is the way Grace views herself.  She plays the role to the hilt by dressing in drabby clothes and getting bad 80s perms.  However, Gracie is recalled to the living!  Her life starts once she leaves her home town and resolves to look for adventure.  She meets adventure all right, in the form of Bobby Tom Denton.  At heart Bobby Tom is a sensitive simple guy.  But he's been conditoned to think that what he needs is a gorgeous bomb-shell when he's really satisified and happy with a cute equally simple girl like Gracie.  Unfortunately, for Bobby Tom to realize this, Gracie must go through a lot of pain and heart-break.  But despite previous passivity, Gracie knows that she deserves more than second best and forces Bobby Tom to make a choice.  And oh boy, he does!  Gracie, who knows nothing about football passes Bobby Tom's NFL test with flying colours...a true testament of how much Bobby Tom cares about Gracie.	2000-10-21
US	50475218	RPTRCYJO4OZTS	0380782332	489354413	Kiss an Angel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wonderful!	Susan Elizabeth Phillips is one of those rare authors that you can pick up and know without a doubt that you have a winner!  &quot;Kiss an Angel&quot; was the first SEP novel I read.  And now, I've devoured almost all of her books and wait with bated breath for the next release.  Specifically, with regard to &quot;Kiss an Angel,&quot; Daisy and Alex have a special story.  They are thrown together through the wily political maneuverings of Daisy's father.  But love blossoms between the pair even though there is a painful history behind Alex.  Daisy manages to bring Alex out of the box and gives him life and joy.  In the end, it is Alex who manages to return the gift after the way he hurts her and chases her off.  I think that every great love story has a poignant moment where love that would normally be taken for granted is challenged and the lovers have to face that challenge in order to make for a future.  Daisy and Alex have to face that challenge, and of course, like every romance novel - love prevails at the end of the day!  For those who have never read and SEP novel you are surely missing out!	2000-10-21
US	50475218	RGHHGR6FU0TCL	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SEP, arguably the best romance writer!	There is just something about Susan Elizabeth Phillips that makes her writing so great!  I'm not sure if it's her rhetoric or if it's the plot or what it is.  But there is a quality about her work that defines it as a level above the regular romance writer.  Since reading &quot;It Had to Be You,&quot; I am now a football fan!  Phillips takes an approach towards football that views the game as somewhat sexy, and I guess that viewpoint has rubbed off onto me.  Although Phoebe Sommerville and Dan Calebo aren't my favourite SEP characters, they're fun and there is a special chemistry between the pair.  I think it is interesting how Phillips takes two characters that are completely different from each other and throws them together.  Moreover, Phillips creates each character as sort of an anomaly.  Because Phoebe is beautiful, one would naturallly assume that she's just another &quot;dumb blonde.&quot;  It's a pretty stupid stereotype, but prevailing regardless.  Instead, Phoebe's not only beautiful but she's smart and she's artsy and sort of Bohemian and sensitive and artlessly unaware of how beautiful she really is.  Furthermore, Dan, although a former jock and the &quot;Stars&quot; head coach, consists of much more than just the &quot;dumb jock&quot; persona.  He's intelligent and wears glasses and he's not into wild and kinky sex.  Okay, maybe the kinky and fun part.  Anyways, I don't want to give away too much of the story, but this is another winner.  I definitely recommend &quot;It Had to Be You.&quot;	2000-10-21
US	50475218	RKYH6YWQX46IK	0811815862	574687172	The Journey is the Destination: The Journals of Dan Eldon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amazing	Wow, how does one do justice to a person's work that provokes feelings beyond words?  Dan Eldon is someone that inspires me.  He exudes a youth and exhuberance that exceeds even death.  His journals are uninhibited and I am honoured to be able to glimpse even a tiny glance into his heart and soul.  His journals are more artistic, but for students of economic development and international relations, Dan Eldon's story told through the video &quot;Dying to Tell the Story,&quot; is truly poignant and a must see.  This video had me in tears and I admire Eldon for going out there and revealing a truth of the world economy and violence that most people are unwilling to do or simply, ignorant of.  For those hardened cynics, Eldon's story will surely break your heart.	2000-10-21
US	50475218	RPJNYRI87HV1L	0380810484	244602149	How to Trap a Tycoon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	cute!	this is by far the best book by bevarly that i've read.  she is obviously a writer that is well educated and witty, proven by the rhetoric of &quot;how to marry a tycoon.&quot;  now, although i'm not really into the  capitalistic and corporate scene and would never pick up a book with this  kind of cheesy title, don't be fooled!  bevarly's heroine defends her  gender and proves that those left of center can mix with those on the  right!  this book is sexy and cute and i read it in one night!	2000-07-30
US	50475218	RL6JPNFF7BHQP	0380800209	147811921	Her Man Friday	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Witty Repertoire	This is a great novel and I can't wait to get my hands on other works written by Elizabeth Bevarly.  However, there are a few discrepancies that keep me from rating this book five stars.  I feel that the characters are not fully developed and that there are a few holes in this story that are  plugged, so to speak, with bad escapes by the writer.  Examples of these  poor &quot;holes,&quot; is the incredibility of so many people in Bevarly's  story possessing IQ's of over 140.  Let's get realistic, Bevarly conveys to  the reader that she's created a think tank.  This is not very romantic, and  not necessary to make the story stand.  Furthermore, how Lily and Leo end  up in bed is a little rushed and the script before they land in bed seems  empty and just a filler for them to have sex.  I can't help being critical  of these small mistakes by the writer, but the only time that I find it  worthwhile to be critical is when the writer actually shows promise of  something good.  My last and only complaint is the premise of $50 million  dollars being missing.  I can't help but question why would the billionaire  Kimball care if people knew that his secretary was donating money to  charity?  Finally, what I really enjoyed about Bevarly's writing is her  ability to create humour and describe the steamy lead up to lead couple's  &quot;tango.&quot;  Bevarly shows a lot of promise for future works, so get  out there and buy &quot;Her Man Friday!&quot;	2000-04-27
US	50475218	R2V2AQO4P7QQ7O	0395771846	753673336	CURE FOR DEATH BY LIGHTNING CL	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful	I think that a lot of other readers missed the point of &quot;The Cure for Death by Lightning.&quot;  This is not a novel about the solution to the problem of a dysfunctional family.  It is merely a journey that relays things how they happened.  Unfortunately, aspects of this story happen too  often in reality then most people would like to admit.  By  &quot;aspects,&quot; I am referring to sexual abuse, violence and confusion  of the soul.  I'm not sure if this is a sort of autobiographical account  from the writer or what motivated her to write this story.  However, I  suspect that these things did happen to her.  We are so used to reading  things that deal with issues of sexual abuse and violence and expect a  remedy or some sort of therapeutic message to be sent, however, this is not  necessary.  Simply telling the tale tells a lot.  As for Gail  Anderson-Dargatz' writing style, it is surely a masterpiece.  She starts  off with a suspenseful beginning by making the reader wonder what it is  that the main character hears.  I appreciate the Indian folklore, or should  I say First Nations' folklore that she includes in her story.  When reading  &quot;The Cure for Death By Lightning,&quot; just stop and absorb the  poetry of her words and appreciate the subtle message sent and remember  that there is always redemption.	2000-04-27
US	50475218	RB5SMKHIVEBJ1	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Excellent!	I've never read anything by Susan Anderson before, but if &quot;Baby I'm Yours&quot; is an indicator of how she writes, I'll be snapping up all of her books without a second thought.  I especially like the cover art on her books.  They are snappy and sharp and suit her writing style.  I like how  Anderson situates normal people like Catherine MacPherson and Sam McKade  into her novels and bases her story not on an overly fantastic plot, but  more a journey of two people who fall in love.  I find that a lot of  romance novels get caught up in the setting, regency England, for example  and the history of the period and completely lose the characters.  Without  giving away too much of the novel, this is a writer not to be missed!	2000-04-26
US	50475218	R2ALQC7B6B43BX	0714838152	672201971	Inferno	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A Terrible Beauty	I find that the words &quot;a terrible beauty&quot; sum up this masterpiece by James Nachtwey.  These pictures deeply affected me beyond the written word.  Sometimes a simple picture can portray so much.  As a student of economic and international relations these images are what keeps  me going, I want to be the idealist that believes that I can make a change  too.  Every time I see Nachtwey's images I can feel his appeal to the  reader to make a difference or at the very least to be aware of global  issues.  People get so caught up in their own pain that one forgets the  harsh reality imposed upon others in countries ravaged by war, ethnic  genocide and famine.  The picture plate of the skeletal man crawling on his  hands and knees left a deep impact on me as well as the plate of the  Rwandan man ravaged and violated by a machete from his own people.  Indeed,  as the Italian poet Dante described in &quot;Inferno&quot; these images  describe the nine cirlces of hell.	2000-04-26
US	50475218	R3PBGGGJLMHOCR	0553563343	755856344	Breath of Magic	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One word; wow!	I read the series backwards; first I read &quot;Touch of Enchantment&quot; and then &quot;Breath of Magic,&quot; but it didn't really matter in what order they were read.  At first I was a little wary about picking this book  up because of the not so positive reviews I had seen.  However, I disagree,  this is a wonderfully imaginative and captivating novel.  Furthermore this  novel can be viewed in a much broader context than cheesy romance.  I've  just finished reading &quot;A Room With a View&quot; and &quot;Satanic  Verses&quot; and am feeling philisophical and completely inspired by  everything I read.  This novel has the common theme of good versus evil  with Tristan Lennox and Arthur Finch, also known as Reverend Linnet.   Tristan reminds me of Neo from &quot;the Matrix&quot; as the  &quot;christ&quot; that liberates mankind; &quot;free your mind!&quot;   Actually I think I'm getting a little carried away; the other major theme  is that Arian Whitewood makes the transition from holier than thou  &quot;Puritan&quot; to a free-love girl.  Just like &quot;Touch of  Enchantment,&quot; there were parts in this novel that made me crack up.   Hmmm...I was reading it in the bookstore and I'm sure that some people  wondered what I was reading?   Just a piece of advice for those who read  romance; this is purely fiction and a lot of impossible things can happen  because of the genre, so when I read romance I try to concentrate on the  emotions that develope, not the storyline:)...because we all know that  witches don't exist?	2000-04-09
US	50475218	R35QQLBE7QM2BC	0451403665	8448932	No Sweeter Heaven (Topaz Historical Romances)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Heavenly!	This was a book that I could not put down; I cried at thebeauty of Pascal's faith and his ability to transform Lily from aspoiled shrew to a woman awakening to her sexual and spiritual desires.  I am always impressed by Katherine Kingsley's ability to bring religion into her novels without portraying it in an evangelical or obsessive way.  This is a novel that deals with more than just the heart.  It deals with violation of Lily's body when she was molested by her priest.  But Kingsley shows that one person's sickness does not affect the whole church; that violation does not stop Lily from being able to love.  Furthermore, Kingsley proves that family is not only flesh and blood, but also adopted.  The disparity of Lily's family which is her flesh and blood and the love lacking there is evident when compared with Pascal's adopted family.  This novel is highly recommended!	2000-04-08
US	50475218	R1OKC263U9Q7GO	0553283545	918991557	Seduction	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Amanda Quick at Her Best!	What happened to the Amanda Quick novels that we have grown tolove? (ie. Seduction, Surrender, Scandal...)  Recent Quickpublications are just not what they used to be.  However &quot;Seduction&quot; is by far one of Quick's masterpieces.  I have read this novel probably about twenty times and everytime I read it I am thrilled.  This is feminism at work!  Sophy is a &quot;blue-stocking&quot; who has read voraciously the works of Mary Wolstencraft; she challenges a high society harlot to a duel in order to empower herself and prove that male &quot;honor&quot; is dead; she holds her body and her spirit above bartering her soul for materialistic comforts.  Sophy is a heroine, but always a woman.  She is an example that feminism is not the raging woman seeking power but the improvement of life for oneself and gender.  Furthermore, Quick employs a witty rhetoric that allows even the most daft of readers to appreciate her sense of humour and view on life.  There is not much more that I can say except that those who have not read Quick's early works, especially &quot;Seduction&quot; do not know what they are missing.  Like the quote on the back of the book, &quot;I consumed Seduction like a valentine box of chocolates, in one sitting, and thoroughly enjoyed it!&quot;	2000-04-08
US	50475218	R3TUUV5R2XL8NT	0553575007	826575056	Touch of Enchantment	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Truly Enchanting!	I've read several of Theres Medeiros' books and have been disappointed by them because of what I considered to be false acclamation.  However this definitely proved my theory wrong.  Once in a while a good book is found  amongst all the garbage being published.  This is definitely one of them.   Medeiros spins a fairytale that is impossible but utterly romantic.  I  enjoyed her ability to use comic relief in tense scenes and found myself  laughing out loud.  My only criticism is that the heroine's personality is  so strong that it almost overshadows that of the hero.  However I was  impressed by Colin; he is depicted as honourable, passionate, and conscious  of guilt and responsibility.  Therefore, without expecting too much from a  romance novel other than a pleasant diversion from studying and papers,  this was definitely a well written book and worth keeping!	2000-04-08
US	50475218	R1AU8HX3G2QQTN	0440224403	123095852	Cold Night, Warm Stranger	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Chalk up another one for Jill Gregory!	All right, so maybe my motivation for buying this book was rather silly, but it had the model John desalvo on the cover, who is the most gorgeous man I've ever laid eyes upon.  As I delved into the story, I couldn't put  it down.  I thought this book was more about the human condition, than a  violent western.  It's interesting to see these characters take on very  human qualities of saying one thing but really meaning the other.  For  example, Maura claims she is marrying Quinn only for the baby's sake, but  soon she wants more even though she must deny those yearning according to  the pact made between them.  Quinn, on the other hand is not as cold as he  makes himself out to be, he can't help but want to be fiercely protective  of Maura's vulnerability.  It is because of the way the characters  developed that made the book realistic.  Actually, the violence in it was  overdone.  Quinn kills at least six or seven people throughout the course  of the book.  The deaths he inflicted raise totally different questions.   It is interesting to see how an author can make the &quot;hero&quot; kill,  but the deaths caused are for supposedly justifiable reasons.  Well, I  guess this is what makes romance, and what keeps the novel entertaining, so  who am I to judge?  I thought overall, this was another fantastic novel for  Jill Gregory.	2000-02-04
US	50475218	R9VFO3GT4FYSZ	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	2	12	23	N	N	not what i expected	after carefully considering the reviews of the other people on this site, i decided to give julia quinn a try.  i find myself agreeing with the minority here by being disappointed with &quot;how to marry a  marquis.&quot;  the things i found most absurd about the novel was that it  was mostly dialect, and little description.  what little description  existed were all clichs and very boring.  because the novel was almost all  dialect, i read this book in about two hours, and i found myself at the end  feeling as if there was no substance to it.  the characters were really  quite stupid, and if they really loved each other, they wouldnt have  deceived each other the way they did.  the ending was horrible, elizabeth  and james were immature, and i certainly dont understand the relevance of  bringing in secondary characters from a previous book.  really, they served  no purpose other than to make the situation more absurd than it already  was.  lastly, the title marquis of riverdale?  it makes me think of those  archie comics, not very romantic.  however, i admit i cant judge an author  alone on one book, so ill give &quot;the duke and i&quot; a try, but if  that one is as bad as this one was, ill be saving my money for better  authors like katherine kingsley or amanda quick.	2000-01-18
US	50475218	RI0IL14D8AM9Q	038078145X	15276320	Stranger in My Arms	Books	1	13	17	N	N	save your money on this one	although i am a fan of lisa kleypas, i found it really hard to finish this book and remain a loyal reader.  this book just didnt make sense, it was just so implausible, it was ridiculous.  for example, the man who was  so-called &quot;hunter&quot; described to lara a mark that she had on her  body that only her husband would know.  however, this does not make sense,  because first of all, the real hunter probably didnt take the time to stare  at lara's behind when he was practicing his marital rights.  furthermore,  even if he had, how would &quot;hunter&quot; have known?  after all, the  secret journals were filled with secrets that the real &quot;hunter&quot;  would have deemed important, but certainly not what his wife's backside  looked like.  it is also highly unlikely that a half-brother would look so  much like his brother that he could fool his sister in law. i say this not  only because of the looks, but also because of the mannerisms.  how would a  mercenary in india know how a quintessential english gentlemen would  behave?  i guess only someone really stupid woldn't know the difference,  but maybe lara was exactly that.  anyway, save your money on this one,  rather, buy lisa kleypas's &quot;then came you.&quot;  that one is worthy  to remain on your &quot;keepers&quot; shelf.	2000-01-18
US	50475218	R1VUTSNYJRVSY4	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	5	3	5	N	N	another winner!	this is another one of those books that will go on my prized shelf next to &quot;bewitching&quot; (barnett), &quot;the bargain&quot; (veronica sattler), &quot;no sweeter heaven&quot; (katherine kingsley), &quot;then  came you&quot; (lisa kleypas), and &quot;seduction&quot; (amanda quick).   &quot;wicked&quot; was utterly romantic, although I find the title a little  bit off the mark.  I don't think there was anything wicked about this  story.  It was heart wrenching, and I thought it was brilliant the way  barnett cast the story dialogue into parts.  One part when lady sofia was a  young girl, then the next section when she was fifteen, finally to the part  where she became a woman and betrothed to sir tobin.  It was also wonderful  how barnett throughout the entire story allowed the reader to see that this  story was a reminiscence of lady sofia.    Barnett uses the past and  present to make her story more personal. Despite the humor in this story I  felt that there was also great sadness.  There were parts where I was  really touched and felt close to tears.  Again I have to say this is  definitely one of the most truly romantic novels that i've read.	2000-01-09
US	50475218	R394A5N5JZD94I	0440220769	581656459	Once Upon a Dream	Books	3	5	6	N	N	katherine kingsley's &quot;once upon a dream&quot;	I've read all of Katherine Kingsley's novels and lately I've been really disappointed with them.  I'm not sure what it is about her stories that disappoint me, it's not her writing style, I know.  In fact, the language  she uses is sophisticated and her plots intricate and well thought out.   It's just that I feel the same emotion which compelled her to write  &quot;no sweeter heaven&quot; is missing.  I suppose that success is hard  to live up to and that previous success puts pressure on the author to live  up to these higher expectations.  All I know is that with &quot;once upon a  dream&quot; I felt that the characters were not as strong as they could be.   Lucy Kincaid is a beautiful woman forced to become a menial in her own  household.  How clich is that?  And then the handsome dashing duke spots  the lovely Lucy and falls madly in love with her.  How about lust?  I know  this is a romance novel and the characters are prone to wild fits of  passionate emotions.  However, I think it is a bit shallow that Raphael  would fall in love with a woman he does not know based on her looks.  It  was after all the vision of Lucy walking near the cliffs which drove him to  look for her.  Anyway, I didn't mean to be so harsh on this novel, I still  enjoy Katherine Kingsley's novels.  I just wish that the characters would  be more real like they were in &quot;no sweeter heaven.&quot;	2000-01-09
US	50475218	R1Q3AK37ANIY64	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	5	33	36	N	N	the witty and incomparable jill barnett!	you know a book is really good when you can pick it up after years of it just lying there and laugh as hard as you did the first time you read it!  this was the case for me.  my favourite part of &quot;bewitching&quot; was  when Joy was &quot;cooling&quot; off her face by plastering her lips onto  the carriage window!  I love how barnett described them like &quot;pink  leeches.&quot;  A part of me wanted to cringe in mortification for Joy, but  another part of me just thought it was too funny!  this humor is continuous  throughout the story and it provides comic relief for the staid and all too  duke-like Alec Castlemaine.  I think it is wonderful how his character  develops from cold and unbearable to downright loving, foolish and  sentimental.  It's not as though those feelings didn't exist in Alec, it's  just that they had been suppressed so long by his family and his sense of  honor for his family.  Best of all I like Beezle, Joy's familiar.  This is  a wonderful story and barnett employs a rhetoric that is uniquely hers.  I  would consider &quot;bewitching&quot; her best piece of work to date.	2000-01-09
US	50475218	R360LJB4DGW3AG	038077013X	689464190	Then Came You (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Wow! What a great book!	I've read other books by Lisa Kleypas and have been disappointed, but this is one book that I read years ago and stupidly gave away.  Now I have a new copy and I love it! It's something that can be read over and over again.  Although I find Lily's attitude and her highly independent nature somewhat  implausible especially for the time period that the book is being written,  it's still a great book!  I think it wouldn't be romance is all the  characters actually behaved and thought true to the time period.  It would  be more like a Jane Austen novel, although I love Jane Austen her novels  just don't make me feel all soft and warm. And Alex Raiford!  What a sexy  creature!  Although some may claim that his character can't change from  being hard and cold to the rash and love driven man in the end of the  novel, I disagree.  Lisa Kleypas never meant to portray him as cold, merely  in pain.  It is this mutual feeling of pain that brings Lily and Alex  together to form the love that they learn to share. This book had all the  components that I think makes great romance novels: it included friends and  family; danger; excitement and two strong-willed characters! I definitely  recommend this to readers!	2000-01-09
