US	50484457	R8X3PU4I7W77S	0689828772	272188685	The Raging Quiet	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Amazing	From the beautiful cover by Kinuko Y. Craft to the very end, this is a wonderful book.  Marnie is a young woman, married to a much older man who turns out not to be much like she thought.  They move to a new town, down by the river, in a house he owns.  After he dies in a freak accident, she does her best to fit into the community, but the people are set in their ways and don't want a new person.  She makes friends with the priest, who is in his own way an outsider, and with the village 'lunatic'.  Problems ensue when she and the 'lunatic' (who turns out to be deaf, not crazy) become closer and closer . . .<br />The best part about this book was probably the characterization.  No one is completely good.  No one is completely evil.  Everyone has human traits.  The priest, while essentially one of the most compassionate people in the story, still lost his patience with the 'lunatic' (Raven) often.  Marnie herself does.  Raven, the deaf young man, isn't miraculously transformed into the Model Citizen after Marnie and he invent a sign language -- he changes, yes, but not all at once, and not always progressively forward.<br />It's completely recommended for anyone over, maybe, twelve years of age, and that involves all adults.  It may be a 'children's' book, but that's not for lack of maturity.	2004-02-10
US	50484457	R3R0QVZNN19IXJ	0804106320	552086443	Settling the Score	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Simplistic, but hilarious	A slightly non-musician outlook on musicians, but the book's incredibly funny to anyone who's ever worked in a musical capacity nonetheless.  It's rather too bad that it's been out of print for so long.<br />The plot's sort of complicated, for all that takes place over two days.  Donald, the ex-child-prodigy-turned-choral-conductor, apparently discovered a lost Mozart Mass.  His track record for conducting orchestras is extremely poor, so they ask someone else to conduct the premiere: his ex-best friend from conservatory, who also happens to be married to Donald's ex-fiancee.  Add to this mix the ex-best friend's ex-fiancee, a mint-green tuxedo, security problems, and Leonard Bernstein, and you get some interesting reading.<br />The stereotypes about musicians are fairly . . . well, fairly stereotypical, but the author contrives to explain everything that it makes sense.  Honestly, most of the stereotypes are those that non-musicians are somewhat familiar with: the soprano who's trying to sleep her way to the top, the fruity choir director . . . just the usual. <br />It's worth it for the first chapter of the book (a choral rehearsal) alone.	2003-01-30
US	50484457	R3KF3EDBDZ3YYK	0373250193	686455358	Loose Screws (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute, fluffy, but at least rang true	The plot's cute: a woman goes through the three or four weeks from hell; everything in her life gets turned upside down, and it all manages to fall into some sort of order in the end.  Ginger Petrocelli (half Italian, half Jewish -- did she stand a chance?) has a great job, a nice apartment, a NORMAL fiance -- who leaves her standing at the altar . . . and it all goes wacky from there.  She ends up living with her mother and grandmother.  She ends up with a corgi named Geoffrey.  Can anything get worse -- or better?<br />Although everyone knows this is a romance novel disguised as fiction, that's no reason to ignore it.  Even though the theme's a little trite and well-worn, the humor is worth it.  Ginger is a witty narrator; the characters around her are interesting and wacky, and the whole book doesn't seem to be obsessed with her being secretly beautiful and not willing to admit it.  <br />The views on mother-daughter relationships, while not entirely new or ground-breaking, at least ring true.  Most children go through the whole \\"I'm going to be nothing like my mother\\" stage, in the end, to decide that there really were some good things about their mothers, and that they might like knowing that those same things were true about themselves.<br />For a little light reading with some interestingly quotable lines, this is well worth it.  I've never read any other RDI books, but if the outlook on the world is similar, I might.	2002-10-30
US	50484457	R1US869D6Y2QZZ	0765300346	214429954	War for the Oaks: A Novel	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Fey, death, and Rock 'n' roll . . .	I read this book about three years ago, back when it was still out of print, and I was very excited when I heard it was being reprinted.  I can't exactly decide whether I like the cover, but it's certainly better than the old one.<br />Eddi McCandry is the guitar player for a lousy band.  They're not really going anywhere, and neither, particularly, is her life.  One night, everything changes: the band splits up, she breaks up with the lead singer, and she gets chosen to be the mortal talisman for a war between the Seelie and Unseelie fey.<br />This is all okay, though, because she gets to put another band together, and they're good.  Really good.  Especially the other guitarist . . . and let's not forget her bodyguard, the phouka . . . Oh, yeah, she needs a bodyguard because the Unseelie fey are trying to kill her, in between band rehearsals and battles . . . <br />One thing that really made me laugh about this book was the setting.  It's the eighties.  Eddi's clothing, which is REALLY COOL by the standards of the book, sounds like something off of Saved by the Bell.  <br />This is definitely a book for fantasy-punk geeks: the music mentioned includes bands such as Boiled in Lead (Celtic Rock) and David Bowie (self-explanatory); the fashions, albeit eighties, are the same; and the general demeanor of the book is rather Borderlands-y.  (Which makes sense, considering Emma Bull was one of the co-creators of the original Borderlands series.)<br />However, even if you aren't a fantasy-punk geek, you can still read it.  It's engaging and has very likable characters; the plot takes a couple of not-precisely-as-expected turns; the description of the fey is interesting and fits fairly well with the expected fantasy fey-canon (she didn't try to rewrite the Sidhe as bloodsucking ugly vampires, for example).<br />So, to end, elements of fantasy, realism, eighties-punk, romance, and humanity make it accessible and readable by anyone.  Even those who don't remember the eighties.	2002-10-16
US	50484457	R1049V08HA3OOA	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beautiful, brilliant, shattering	I don't honestly know if I would have understood this book quite as well if it weren't for the fact that I actually followed pop culture at the time that this book is set.  I'm assuming it is from about 1996 -- I don't remember whether he said or not -- and I was fourteen that year.  That background knowledge of who people like Sophie B. Hawkins (one-hit wonders from that year?) are certainly helped.  I'm not saying that this book will be totally outdated in around ten years, but it's a consideration.<br />That said, I very much liked it.  It was, quite simply, one of the strangest things I have ever read and well worth every minute I spent on it.  Bret Easton Ellis's style is vivid, jarring, cinematic (hence the attempts to film his other novels); and yet it is is some of the most beautiful, fluid language I have ever read.<br />I wish I could describe the plot with any accuracy, but as it goes, we have Victor Ward, the model, his business associates, his 'friends', his lovers, etc.  We also have parties, clubs, photography sessions, organizational sessions, trysts, ATMs, a cruise to England, a search, violence, murder, movies, a missing ex-girlfriend . . .  Superimpose all this on top of each other and you get something resembling Glamorama.  <br />As it compares to his other novels -- I liked American Psycho better; I felt it had more overall coherency and more cohesion.  (Although I must admit that I prefer Victor overall as a narrator to Patrick Bateman.)  The characters, as someone else pointed out, tend to recur: Victor Ward (Johnson) we've seen before, and Lauren Hynde, and some other minor characters.  I'm still waiting to see what he does next with his world -- but I do NOT anticipate a movie of this book.  It would be too much.	2002-10-15
US	50484457	R1J2PTZZUCCQ98	0886779758	755881554	The Second Summoning (The Keeper's Chronicles, No 2)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Aluminum	Unlike some other reviewers, I found this book to be just as witty as the first.  In some cases, the humour is a little more obvious, as there is some . . . well, the verbal equivalent of slapstick.  Maybe there isn't a talking Elvis, or much of a hole to Hell, but there ARE teenagers . . . Speaking as a teenager, which I should think I'm certified to do, the teenagers in this book are frighteningly accurate.  Diana's speech, that of her schoolmates, their phrases and pet words . . . Too close to the real thing.  I mean, I didn't even know what the phrase &quot;going commando&quot; meant until about three weeks ago . . . So in brief: it's a week after the end of Summon the Keeper. Stuff may or not be happening.  What with and all that, problems arise with teenagers, cats, and the Word of God.  I can't get any more specific, lest I give away major plot points. Good things:  More Diana.  I thought she was amusing last time around.  If you hated her, well, then . . . And there's still a good deal of Dean and his unmistakeable Newfoundland turns of phrase. There are also more Canadian/American jokes (which I guess you have to live close to the border to get) and hockey references.  *I* know the difference between icing and offsides, thank you very much! Bad things: the plot doesn't make as much sense.  If you miss one little thing, well, then, you're kind of messed up for the rest of the book.  And things that seem incidental, aren't.  Vice versa occasionally. I still think it's worth five stars.  I annoyed all and sundry by reading the funny bits aloud -- which amounted to enough of the book that I didn't have to re-explain who everyone was by the end. So, in summation, it's definitely a worthy successor to Summon the Keeper.  Get it!! :)	2001-03-17
US	50484457	R3UB80U7VT0KP6	0679724494	368350214	Kiss of the Spider Woman	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Don't read this, read the book!!	This book was recommended to my by a very enthusiastic friend, and I must say, having finished the book, I understand why.  Roughly, the story is about two men in prison: Luis Molina, the homosexual window dresser, and Valentin Arruiga Paz.  That, however, only begins to describe it.  It's also about movies: Molina tells the plots of movies, partially to pass the time, partially because these movies -- living these movies -- is his escape.  He prefers the movies from the forties and fifties, with the real divas, short hair, lots of blood-red lipstick . . . The movies aren't just time-passers, either: they reflect the events of the book.<br />The style is one of the most outstanding features of the book.  It is almost entirely in dialogue, with some brief spates into play-format and a couple of police reports.  It varies with the setting.  There are also a couple of sections in stream-of-consciousness, where one receives Molina's movies as he thinks of them, no bothering with sentences.  It all contributes to a wonderful effect.<br />I have, however, heard, that although this is the only translation available, it isn't the best.  For example, Molina refers to himself as a woman throughout the book in the Spanish version.  Although this isn't as possible in English, one could have made more of an effort, to preserve the feel of the original.<br />So go learn Spanish (if you don't know it already) -- but read this first!	2001-01-18
US	50484457	R1ARXW8ZX89HP	0345306449	709623780	A Winter's Love	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Dreamy, like moonlight on snow	Do you know how awful it is that this book is out of print?  I found a copy at the library, and read it in one night -- it's wonderful!  The writing style is definitely early L'Engle, reminiscent of The Small Rain.  The theme isn't quite as evident as it is in later novels . . . but it's still a delightful read.<br />The characters are interesting -- both the &quot;younger incarnations&quot;, Virginia Bowen Porcher and Mimi Oppenheimer (wasn't there a Renier in there somewhere?), and the characters whom we haven't seen before: Emliy Bowen, Abe Fielding, Kaarlo . . .<br />The plot in brief: Emily's husband Courtney used to be a professor at a university, and he resigned.  They're spending the winter holidays in France, not many years after World War II ended.  From there, it's the usual L'Engle family-in-conflict.  Vee, their daughter, is also struggling with adolescence and that whole L'Engle-style conflict . . .<br />It combines the best of many of her novels: the adult conflict and the children's conflict.  Not that this is exactly a book for children: it's as heavy as anything else she writes.  But in this book I see beginnings of most of the novels that came after it, both for adolescents and for adults.<br />Highly recommended!  That is, if you can find it . . .	2000-10-23
US	50484457	R1BIB9ZP9D8WK6	0451199634	426097580	New International Dictionary of Quotations, 3rd Edition	Books	5	9	10	N	N	I adore this book!	Not only do I use it to find quotes for uses in papers and things like valedictory addresses, but I've gone through it and just read it for the sheer delight of finding new witticisms, new quips, new works of literature I should be reading . . . <br />For anyone who has ever or ever will take an English class, this is the best place to start for quotes.  For anyone who loves words, this is the best place to start.  For anyone who wishes to sound like they've read all these books &lt;grin&gt;, this is the best place to start.  When you really want *more*, there's the more specialized dictionaries, like the _Dictionary of Quotes from Shakespeare_ from the same two editors.  <br />Other than that, I can't explain enough what a delight this book has been to me.  Maybe some quotes: &quot;Next to the originator of a good sentence is the first quoter of it.&quot;  Ralph Waldo Emerson, *Compensation*<br />&quot;Intellect does not gain its full force until it attacks power.&quot; Mme de Stael.<br />&quot;Everything in life is somewhere else, and you get there in a car.&quot; E.B. White<br />And that's only a start . . .	2000-10-14
US	50484457	RZRVBDV62CRQV	0590972189	721605233	Book of Enchantments (Point Fantasy)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Worth every page, and every chocolate chip!	This is a wonderful collection of short stories.  Don't let them fool you with the &quot;Grade 5-8&quot; thing -- the stories are ageless.  It starts out with the cute and silly ones, involving chipmunks, bizarre wizards, and arrogant unicorns, and then moves on to what I consider the real meat of the book: the story whose title I can't remember either, a retelling of Sleeping Beauty from an odd perspective, and the Rose Garden story.  Those two are haunting, hard-hitting, Wrede at her finest.  It then meanders through other various fantasy worlds (the Earthwitch story is wonderful, for being one of her early works), including the &quot;Cruel Sister&quot; story, based on the ballad with which most fantasy readers are familiar.  It ends with a delight for all of her readers, a story called &quot;Utensile Strength&quot; involving Cimorene, Mendanbar, and Daystar (no Shiara, unfortunately).  It was great, and the recipe to which others have alluded: it's great, too.  I made it for my birthday a couple years ago.  It's kind of similar to brownies, but I would definitely recommend it to anyone with a little patience (it was a trip to the store to get all the ingredients).<br />So: buy the book, make the recipe, and have a wonderful day!	2000-10-14
US	50484457	R3T3GPROPZKWP0	0761919864	267739064	Communicating Unreality: Modern Media and the Reconstruction of Reality	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting ideas, flawed presentation	This book, which is a major study on the impact of media on what we refer to as reality, is interesting.  The ideas are set forth in a very logical, matter-of-fact fashion.  It covers first the methodology, the historical (such as it is) ideas, and then it presents the data, and finally the conclusions.  For those interested in media studies, this is invaluable as a starting place and for a general overview.<br />That said, this book is flawed.  It spends a lot of time repeating itself.  In one chapter near the beginning, it makes a statement, and in the next chapter, it repeats itself ad nauseum.  When a whole chapter can be summed up in less than a paragraph, there's a problem.  <br />The other major flaw is a definite lack of examples.  Weimann makes blanket statements and then neglects to back them up with sufficient description.  It's nice to say that cop shows convince people that there are many more policemen in the world than there really are, but does this happen in other fields?  How does this affect people?  Are they less likely to go into police work because they feel there is a surfeit of policemen?  Do they feel safer at night, knowing that there are more police around?  <br />Too often, the book neglects those questions.<br />However, as a general overview or textbook (with the implication that the student must find the answers or examples him- or herself), this book works very well.	2000-10-13
US	50484457	R2KEGSJX323ZQ	0399234667	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Really, really cute!	I finished it in record time.  I adore McKinley's writings, and her retellings best of all.  This one had the witty tone of a fairy tale, with the poignant humor that McKinley is known for.  This, as with all the others, breathed new life into an old story.  (Cliched, but true.)  Who else would figure that just because someone was gifted with a beautiful singing voice, it didn't mean she had to be in tune?<br />What I liked the most was the array of characters, especially the  more minor ones like Barder the wheelwright and Narl the farrier, and all the animal characters.  Coming in a close second was the very detailed description of the land and the magic and the customs.  I feel that I could move there and know what people were talking about!  The dja vines, the fairies, the royalty . . . It was all logical and it jumped off the page into a life of its own, as if it had been sprinkled with its own magic.<br />What I liked least was the fact that it ended!<br />Comparisons to her other books are inevitable.  I liked it fully as much as Rose Daughter.  The tone is similar, if I remember right (maybe a little lighter).  It's definitely a lot lighter than the Damar books or Deerskin.<br />Whatever it is, if you like fairy tales, and humor, and new takes on old stories . . . BUY IT!	2000-10-12
US	50484457	R2O7J4FBW3Y9KJ	0671319507	881956228	Chick is in the Mail	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Addicting . . . but in a good way	I've been reading this series since the original &quot;Chicks in Chainmail&quot;, and they're all wonderful, addicting.  Here's the thing: they've almost gotten so that you have to read them in order.  Several stories in this won't make as much sense unless you know the setup -- especially the Ladies' Aid and Armor Society one and the one about Riva Konneva et al.<br />I won't say this is a terrible thing.  You really should read them all.  (In other words, this is a great book, but not the place to start.)<br />That said, the stories in here are witty beyond belief.  They've stereotyped the stereotype.  They've also exploded the stereotype.  There's nothing the authors leave sacred involving the Xena-type warrior, the hulking male barbarian, what REALLY happened in fairy tales . . .<br />My favorite story out of this bunch has to be &quot;The Case of Prince Charming&quot;.  It's obviously a rewrite of the fairy tale, but the extras thrown into it, and the pun in the title, make it wonderfully amusing.<br />In summation: get the other ones first, but DON'T FORGET THIS ONE!	2000-10-10
US	50484457	R2QQGV7V6OU7SN	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Yeah, there's a lot of sex.	If you think the Anita Blake books just keep getting better and better, buy this. If you think Guilty Pleasures was the peak of the series, don't. That's the simple rule of thumb.  If, however, you've never read any LKH and you're considering it, don't start here.  It's a good book, but Guilty Pleasures is better.<br />What I liked about KoS: the setup.  It's very detailed, with logical characters, logical motivations, etc.  The guys.  They're sidhe.  She can be outrageously gorgeous (i.e., green hair, blue, etc.) describing them.  I also like the fact that I pretty much noticed a theme in there (it has something to do with the openness of the Unseelie Court). <br />What I didn't like: It felt like too much setup for so little book.  It's the kind of book you shouldn't really read until you have the second one sitting beside you.  I can't wait until the second comes out; I feel it will fulfill all the promise of the first.<br />In reference to the sex: there's a little more in here than there was in Blue Moon, and it's a little more overt, but it's integral to the plot.  As a matter of fact, without the sex, the plot wouldn't hold together.   I won't say it's her best work, but it's got some really memorable characters.<br />LKH's distinctive writing style obviously shows through.  There are a lot more similarities between Merry and Anita than another reviewer said, but I can't enumerate all of them without giving stuff away.  They both look good in jewel tones (red, royal blue, etc.) and black, though, and they both have a thing for men with long hair, and looks aren't quite everything.<br />That said, Merry doesn't sound quite like Anita.  They're different people, with different childhoods, different situations.  The worlds they live in are NOT the same; they don't even seem to be related.  The fey are fascinating, especially the sidhe and the half-breeds.  If anyone wondered, &quot;Rhys&quot; sounds the same as &quot;Reese&quot;.<br />I think, however, that I prefer Anita at this point.	2000-10-09
US	50484457	R2G8BSQ8Z0BBA	0312860390	462526793	The Sun, the Moon, and the Stars	Books	5	14	14	N	N	I'm not sure I got it all, but it was beautiful	&quot;Beautiful&quot; is a pretty good description of this book.  It's part of the &quot;Fairy Tales&quot; series, all of which I love.  The main character is a painter, but his creational experience (with a &quot;big canvas&quot;) applies to any sort of artist (the creative types).  The writing style rings as true, every single page.  The minor characters are intriguing and fleshed out enough to be human; I found a couple of them humorous.  It gives a very good insight into the craft of a painter (speaking as a musician) as well as the mind of a creator; the juxtaposition of the modern story, the fairy tale, and the incidents in the past of the narrator is fascinating. <br />When I say I'm not sure I got it all, I wasn't kidding.  While it resonated on all those levels, I don't think I fully understood the relationship of the Hungarian fairy tale to the painter's story; I'm not sure I caught all the symbolism within the painting, either.  I'll just have to go reread it . . . darn!	2000-10-03
US	50484457	R1C44CSOAUKOFV	0312859708	487574206	Juniper, Gentian, And Rosemary	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Reread it before expounding upon it	I've read it three or four times, and each time I recognize a few more quotes, see a few more things hidden in the plot.  In brief, the book is about a very intelligent family, focusing specifically on the middle daughter, Gentian.  Genny is fourteen and all her relationships are going through a lot of changes -- especially the one with her next-door neighbor, Dominic.  I did not find the characters unrealistic; not to be egotistical, but they are rather like my group of friends and myself: interested in quotes, literature, and being intellectuals.  I even have a friend named Becky who wants to be a writer when she grows up.  (I, however, bear no resemblance to the Stephanie in the novel.)  The most poignant parts in the novel, I feel, are those dealing with the friendship between Gentian and Becky.<br />That said, I don't find it a perfect book.  I continually compare it to _Tam Lin_, and it does fall short of that.  They do have something in common, however; a very long exposition and rising action, and the entire plot of the ballad in the last forty to fifty pages.  I happen to like it, because it gives the side-plots a much better chance to develop: the friendships, the maturing, the literary references.  What I didn't like was that there simply wasn't enough about certain characters: Genny's parents, for two.  I do adore the style, and the feel, and I would recommend it to anyone who likes any of the following: literature, intellegentsia, Pamela Dean, literary fantasy, coming-of-age stories, books with nifty purple covers . . . (Ok, the last was a joke.)<br />But my point is taken.  Buy it, but try _Tam Lin_, too.	2000-10-03
US	50484457	RAE2ZG10VUPBY	0316291161	474944569	The French Lieutenant's Woman	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The kind of book you reread a thousand times . . .	. . . or maybe two thousand.  I am another person who read this book because a friend had read it, and was so enthusiastic about it that I could not bear not knowing what she was talking about.  That was two months ago.  I've read it twice since then, and started college, and any myriad of other things.<br />In brief:  It's a traditional tale; young man of means (Charles) is engaged to socially acceptable, safe young woman (Tina).  He meets enigmatic, enticing other woman; finds her incredibly attractive; his life changes utterly and completely because of this.  (Sounds a bit like _The Age of Innocence_.)  Ah, but as a reviewer said about another eminent author, describing the plot does not begin to describe the novel.  The plot is to the book as noodles are to tuna noodle casserole: important, but not half of it.<br />The book is set in Victorian England; it is rife with philosophical speculation, but not in such a way as to make you feel that you are reading a textbook.  He sets forth Charles's experiences and his changing worldview in such a sensible way, letting you draw Charles's conclusions with him.  Fowles does an amazing job of showing you his mind, as well as those of lesser characters.<br />Which brings me to another point.  Even if you do not like the philosophical side of it, TFLW is worth reading for the language and the style.  It is written in Victorian English, with a strange twist of modernity (mid-twentieth century and ageless modernity).  Fowles is amazing at showing-not-telling (as the English teachers counsel) and his descriptions will blow you away.<br />On top of all that, it is a good story.  It is not a happy story, really, but it is not, in truth, depressing.  It's romantic, it's elating, it's sad, it's powerful . . . It is the kind of story you want to reread immediately.  Which I did.	2000-10-03
US	50484457	R20B301O0Q10J8	0812544501	137004441	Tam Lin (Fairy Tale)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Amazing, wonderful, beautiful	I reviewed this book two and a half years ago, when I first read it, and I feel the urge to re-review it and give a more mature perspective.  (or, &quot;How Tam Lin Impacted My Life&quot;)<br />Since reading this book I have read so many works of great literature (like the poetry of Keats, and _The Lady's Not for Burning_, and _Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead_, and the poetry of Pope) that I wouldn't have been introduced to, otherwise.  Besides that, I've reread the book itself a thousand times, recommended it to everyone I know, and looked for everything else she wrote.  (This is still my favorite.)<br />The plot in brief: Janet Carter (of Carterhaugh) goes off to college; discovers friends, literature, magic, mystery, and politics.<br />How realistic is it?  Rather. I go to a small Midwestern liberal arts college (it's in Ohio, though); I reread the book two weeks after arriving here, and I knew exactly what Janet/Pamela Dean was talking about.  Ending up with roommates (well, only one) you don't know a thing about, becoming friends with them, meeting large groups of guys . . . and in my experience, Theatre majors really do talk like that, except my theatre major friends are more likely to quote Sondheim than Shakespeare (being the musical variety).  My father went through a physics class altogether too similar to Janet's; my friend's fencing class is altogether too much like Janet's; and there are people here who *would* set bizarre things like &quot;The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock&quot; to music. (Does this make you intrigued?)<br />The ballad plot, for the sticklers, comes in on page 73.  There are hints and other ideas of it before that, but the actual opening of the ballad is page 73.  That doesn't mean you can skip the first 72 pages of the book, however.  They're just as vital, just as amusing, just as interesting as the next 72 pages, or the last 72 pages.<br />My first recommendation is: Read it! My second recommendation is: Read ANYTHING Janetdoes that sounds interesting. &quot;If it Doesn't Work, It's Physics&quot;	2000-10-03
US	50484457	R29D2D64IN31X4	0671876872	344308070	The Fire Rose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cute!	I reread this book recently (two days ago) and it occured to me, when I was reading it, what a delightful book it really is.  The characters, while occasionally stereotypical, are fairly well-fleshed out, and the main love story is intriguing.  What I really liked was how well they thought everything out before doing anything -- it showed their trains of thought admirably well.  The mix of history and fiction was nice, as was her &quot;creation&quot; of a &quot;new&quot; type of magic, involving mythical being that the magician controlls -- Salamanders, Undines, Sylphs, and Gnomes.  It, of course, did what historical fantasy loves to do: come up with supernatural explanations for historical events.  This comes highly recommended, not as James Joyce style fare, but as a very amusing and &quot;aww, isn't that cute! &quot; read.	2000-09-26
US	50484457	R1UCDR938Y6SVA	0060245379	687112129	The Hanged Man	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Beautiful, amazing, inspiring	Francesca Lia Block writes half in poetry, half in prose.  This story incorporates the Tarot deck into a girl's life, a girl who is searching,  like many of her characters, for her sense of self.  Rather than having  never had it in the first place, Laurel lost it when she was young, having  been traumatized.  The way this story unfolds little bits of Laurel's life,  showing her past and finally building up to a point where it cannot stay  hidden any more, is done masterfully. The quote used on the outside, when  Laurel is rationalizing her anorexia, &quot;I will be thin and pure like  spun glass . . .&quot; or something similar to that, is one of the most  haunting and evocative quotes I have ever read.  I found this book very  inspiring, not as someone who had a traumatized childhood (I didn't, not  like this) but as a reader who has found the magic and poetry of the  nineties and &quot;pop&quot; modern culture in the writings of an author,  finally.	2000-09-19
US	50484457	R31JXC7QECXDQB	0312865198	1724295	Forests of the Heart (Newford)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Really different -- but similar	I enjoyed this book a great deal.  As I said in the title, it was  different from all his other books, in that it included the Native  American/Hispanic point of view a good deal, instead of his usual  Celtic/European.  It also was much darker than many of the previous books.   The characters have wretched family lives, like many of his characters, and  in some cases, in this book, they can't overcome that.  Most of the time,  they do. The darker overtones do not take away from the book; rather, they  add a dimension that one never knew was missing.  The characters are  intriguing as usual: the multitude of petite female characters, usually  with short hair; the owner of Gypsy Records, a place that has been  described but infrequently entered; Musgrave Wood, a thoroughly enigmatic  character (down to gender); and Ellie, another one of his artists.<br />Being  able to see his usual patterns does not make this any less of a book; no,  rather it adds a dimension of familiarity to a story that is otherwise new.   I enjoyed reading it a good deal, and would certainly recommend the book  to any Charles de Lint fan.<br />However, I do feel compelled to admit, this  is not the best place to start.  Read _Dreams Underfoot_ or _Memory and  Dream_ first to get the feel of the theme before trying the variations.	2000-09-19
US	50484457	RGYL5WUWT1SB1	0345414365	849379565	Merro Tree (Del Rey Discovery)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Amazing	This book is a must-read for artists of any genre.  It explores many  facets of the life of an artist: the need for self-confidence, the  relationship of a work to the artist itself, the need to explore and break  boundaries in art.  It also explores Mikk's experience with these, and with  his own talents. Besides that, this book is a coming-of-age story,  interspersed with a very odd courtroom drama.<br />For the non-artists, this  might give an insight into an artist's mind.  It's also, plain and simple,  a good story, a love story, a multi-world space opera.  There are millions  of interesting characters, from Maya to Hom to Ahvi to Thissizz; as well as  interesting alien races: the Vyzanians, the Droos, the Somalites, the  Kekoi, the Freen . . .<br />Every time I read this book (I've read it five or  six times) I become hooked first by the characters, the world-building, the  plot, then the deeper implications of everything.  A wonderful read.  I  also heard that she might come out with a sequel.  One can only hope . . .	2000-09-18
US	50484457	R2B0HID80KJECY	038532720X	647228297	Demon in My View (Den of Shadows)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Um . . . interesting	I'm a &quot;teen&quot;, still (I'm 18) and I read this book because I do like to read children's fiction, and well, frankly, I was disappointed.   Her language attempts at having a poetic cadence which it cannot always  match in maturity.  Her world-building is decent but inconsistent.  The  story was okay; there was one plot wrinkle I didn't guess ahead of time,  but her attempts at foreshadowing did not work.  I spotted her token  symbolism, and her characterization was maudlin, juvenile, and underdone.   Stock characters are okay, but not when every single character is a stock  character: the black-haired misfit anti-social type, the religious wanna-be  do-gooder, the gorgeous vampire who can't HELP but fall in love with the  strong-willed female protagonist.  She kept reusing the same phrases over  and over: &quot;the weakest of all&quot; or something along those lines  recurred innumerable times.  I seriously hope Miss Atwater-Rhodes has  invested in a copy of _The Elements of Style_ (Strunk &amp; White), because  I saw flaws in her writing style which could have been corrected by a  little patient application of this book. Another reviewer made the comment  that it was too short, and I agree: had she used more &quot;showing&quot;  and less &quot;telling&quot;, as the English teachers say, I think it could  have gone over two hundred pages. All in all, I probably will read the  other books she writes, but I don't think I'll take them seriously until  Miss Atwater-Rhodes hits twenty-one or so. As for whether one should invest  in this book or not: if you are an aspiring writer, and under the age of  college, this book is a must-have, partially for the inspiring story of the  fifteen-year-old writer, and partially to see what works and what doesn't  work.  I think I would wait until the paperback came out, though, too.	2000-09-17
US	50484457	R1TQYBFM3RIC1W	0312873786	321397327	Sister Emily's Lightship and Other Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Really great!!	I love Jane Yolen, anyways, and her previous short story collections are  amazing.  She writes so poetically . . . but I have to admit, my favorite  story in the bunch was &quot;Tess and her Adequate Dick; or Dick W. and his  Pussy&quot;, which was a rather bawdy retelling of a completely innocent  fairy tale.  Laden with double-entendres, silly puns (Dick lives by a pier,  and &quot;after much pier counseling&quot; took the name of the pier --  &quot;Whittington Pier&quot; -- as his own), and other things one does not  expect from Jane Yolen . . . She said so, herself, in her afterword, but  her notes about the first public recitation of this story are hilarious.  Much recommended, provided you have an odd sense of humor . . . and if you  don't, there are plenty other stories in this book, one of which must suit  your tastes . . .	2000-08-10
US	50484457	R3Q8UKT6HUKPP1	0571169341	810206933	Arcadia: A Play	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Many different views	I just recently attended a performance of this play by a local theater group.  During the intermission, I overheard many people talking about how badly this play was written and how it was completely unrepresentative of  Stoppard, and it wasn't even funny at all.  I thought about explaining the  concept of &quot;thoughtful laughter&quot; to these people, but refrained,  because my age is approximately one-third to one-fourth of theirs.<br />I  don't agree.  I found this play exceedingly entertaining, if I listened  only for the puns, jokes, double entendres, and other language  manipulations.  On a level beyond that, the stories of the characters  themselves can be wittily playful one minute and poignantly touching the  next.  Deeper still were the philosophical implications of what Stoppard  said, how the intellectual and the emotional have to meet (as they did, in  one character).<br />Basically, the play is about two groups of people, one in  1809, and one in the present.  Those in 1809 are dealing with scandals,  schoolwork, and sitting rooms, while those in the present are researching  the characters that appear in the other part.  It is nice to know a bit  about chaos theory, thermodynamics, Lord Byron, and botany (can you  recognize a dahlia on sight?) when reading or seeing this play, but it's  not necessary.  (I.E., if you've read Jurassic Park, that's all you need to  know about chaos theory.  If you know what a reversible equation is, then  you're fine there, and, well, Lord Byron was a English Romantic  poet.)<br />The person with whom I attended this play made a very cogent  comment about the play: &quot;If you only get one joke in five, then that's  enough to think it's funny.&quot;  But if you're one of those lucky people  like me who understood a lot more than that, then this is a witty,  poignant, suspenseful, and intelligent play, quite like _Rosencrantz and  Guildenstern are Dead_.  It is, in my opinion, neither unrepresentative of  Stoppard nor badly written.  Go see it!badly written.  Go see it!	2000-03-28
US	50484457	R1CEBQEOSZ6HGL	0553377876	479446374	Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bizarre, fascinating, wonderful!	I loved this book.  I've read all six books that Tom Robbins has published (so far! ) and I have to say, it's the only one that I liked as much the second . . . or third . . . or fourth time through.  _Woodpecker_ came  close . . . but no.  The first time I read it I was confused out of my  mind the first time through.  It's in second person -- not first, or third,  or both like _Roadside_ -- and it takes a while to get the info everyone  likes to know about the main character -- name, what she looks like, etc.  But the flaws so evident in _Skinny Legs and All_ -- to me anyways -- are  absent in this book.  An overly broad focus seemed to be his downfall in  _SLAA_, and in _HAIFP_, the focus is so tight that . . . well, it's very  tight.  Let's just hope that the new one is as good (or better?).	2000-02-05
US	50484457	RI5DDE9NGYMWX	031286518X	502372960	Moonlight and Vines: A Newford Collection	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not as bad as others think	The first time I read this book I was a bit disappointed.  I loved the first story (Saskia) and liked the others to varying degrees, but I really didn't think many compared to my favorites (Timeskip from Dreams Underfoot,  the one about Sophie's mom in Ivory and the Horn).  I've read it several  times since, and I really must say that I feel much differently.  There is  one story I still don't like much, but the others have -- grown on me?  Not  exactly.  It's more like I'm able to appreciate them more after a second or  third or fourth reading.  I think in colors sometimes, and while Ivory and  the Horn was mostly shades of purples and blues, this ranges from shades of  green and grey to blood-red and black and taupe and other browns.  (I don't  know if that's at all helpful, but maybe if you think like I do, it  is.)<br />With some of the stories, if you know where they came from, they  make more sense.  There is one that came from a horror collection -- two,  maybe -- and one is from a collection about castles (that would be the  title story) . . . <br />I suppose if you're looking for the same characters  (Jilly, Sophie, Geordie, etc.) you'll get some of them, but Christy has  really been expanded, and many new people vaguely associated with the  regulars are similarly changed.  This new crop is at least on the level of  his usual characters.  There is a bit more of a concentration on the fringe  element than usual, though.<br />No, as other people have said, this isn't the  place to start.  To understand the characters, you have to read Dreams  Underfoot and The Ivory and the Horn -- and to a point, Memory and Dream,  Trader, Someplace to be Flying, and The Dreaming Place.  One really must  discover the characters as he did.<br />But it isn't an unworthwhile book.   Quite the opposite, really.  From the first sentence of Saskia (&quot;I  envy the music lovers hear&quot;) to the end of the author's note (wherein  he tells you his webpage -- find it if you're atall interested!) it is  quite thoroughly de Lint.  I can't wait for the next book (June 2000, I  think) to come out.	1999-12-15
US	50484457	RTOEWRPEP1HZ8	0812534077	513391749	Memory and Dream	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Beautiful book	This rates on my all-time favorites list, near the top.  The book basically explains the past and present of a painter, Isabelle (Izzy) Copley, and how it is affecting her now.  The basic idea of the book is the  relationship between the artist and their creation: does the artist have to  protect their creation, or should they bless it, release it, let it go?   And on the side, it explores the ability we all have to rewrite reality --  when has it gone too far, and are we living in a world of our own creation  instead of facing life?  The book is very symbolic, can be read on many  levels, and is a must-have for anyone who likes literary urban fantasy.	1999-09-03
