US	50499876	R3KD48GI7NND6L	1590170342	653955479	The Fountain Overflows (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	52	53	N	Y	Quite Simply One of the Best Books in English Literature	I had heard of author Rebecca West, mainly as the young woman who had a long term affair with a much older H.G. Wells and produced a child out of wedlock, back when things like this were considered shocking.  I stumbled across a copy of this book and decided it might make an interesting read.<br />I never imagined that I had found a true classic, a book that uses the English language to a degree unsurpassed by any other author I have ever read.  The story of is simple, that of a down on their luck family, living in London during the early 1900's.  Their trials and tribulations are faithfully described, as are the multitude of characters they befriend.  Actually to describe the plot, one might assume that not much really happens and to be honest, the plot is not the main attribute of this novel.  But the language!  I have often thought that I would some day like to write a novel but after reading this book, I would not even attempt it!  This is how language should be used...clear and concise but also able to convey atmosphere and emotions.  Page after page of luscious words, all combining together to create an unforgettable reading experience.  If, like me, you wanted to read more, please note that the sequel, This Real Night is almost as good.  A third book, Cousin Rosamund is much weaker since it was not completed at the time of the author's death.<br />Please do yourself a favor and read this book.  I think this ranks with Pride and Prejudice and Wuthering Heights as books which define the best that the English language can offer.	2003-08-15
US	50499876	R4OFPVF0G7BTF	0316782262	563997838	All He Ever Wanted	Books	4	4	5	N	N	And What Happens When He Gets It	This is my first introduction to the works of Anita Shreve.  I was drawn to the book because of the time period, turn of the century America.  In addition, the plot of the novel seemed reminiscent of Edith Wharton's most famous works.  After finishing the book, the characters stayed with me throughout the evening and this is always the sign of a good book!<br />Nicholas Van Tassel is a professor at a small college in New England.  One evening while escaping a fire, he happens to see Edna Bliss and is immediately captivated by her.  Later they meet and Nicholas falls in love with the young woman.  However, from the very start Edna is honest with Nicholas and tells him that while she will marry him, she will never love him.  To me this is the crux of the novel.  Edna never lies about her feelings.  Nicholas of course assumes that this will change and this sets the tone for the remainder of the novel.  On a feminist level, one could argue that the woman is simply not being heard.  But whether the character is a man or woman, I don't think really matters.  The book is about one person trying desperately to create another person whom they can love.  Not accepting this person, with their flaws and human frailties, but demanding that they conform to the expectations, desires and wishes of another.  Other reviewers have commented on the coldness of Edna's character.  I found Nicholas, the narrator, to be much colder.  He is a man willing to do anything to have his way in this world, regardless of who will suffer.  I would recommend this novel to anyone interested in the workings of the human heart.	2003-07-08
US	50499876	R3KEJTXM9CRO4A	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wonderfully Imaginative	I have seen this book on the best sellers list for quite a while and I must admit I hesitated when a copy became available at the library.  The entire plot, a young Indian boy trapped on a lifeboat with a tiger, just seemed ludicrous.  I could not understand how the author could ever pull such a concept off.  Well thankfully, I picked up the book and started to read over the Fourth of July holiday.  When two days later I had finally re-read the last 10 pages for the third time, I put the book down and thought, Well Yann Martel has managed the impossible!  He did make the story not only credible but has written a beautiful story about love, loss, courage, and struggle.<br />Expertly written and plotted, I especially enjoyed the small chapters which made the story flow so much better and the interjected narrative, revealing Pi's life after he endured his hardship.  But what struck me the most, was the beautiful narrative voice of the author.  He made humans and animals come alive.<br />But the last ten pages of the book!  How much different would the book be perceived without those last ten pages?  Hard to tell, except for me, they made the book much more than just a struggle to endure.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking for something a little different.  Take a weekend and immerse yourself in a book that is a joy to read and then recommend it to everyone you know.	2003-07-07
US	50499876	R2MEPUTU3QLIPD	1842124196	274189849	Ivan the Terrible	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Medieval Stalin	Lately I have been reading a lot about Russian and Soviet history and one thing that becomes very clear, is that for centuries the Russian people have had to endure some of the most barbaric, inhuman rules ever to roam the earth.  During the mid-1500's, Ivan the Terrible decimated cities simply out of boredom or jealously.  People around him died for no other reason than he wanted them to.  The Russian populace endured almost unbelievable cruelty, yet always believed in their \\"father\\" and never really questioned his authority or even his sanity.<br />Author Troyat does a magnificent job of making Ivan a real person.  Orphaned at a young age and mistreated by the boyars around him, Ivan spent his adult life as a pious mass murderer.  Ordained by God to rule as he pleased, Ivan never questioned his cruelty and went to this death blaming others for the events that he himself caused.  I have read several other Troyat biographies of famous Russians, and his is one of his best.	2003-06-13
US	50499876	R3BUHUXWOE1TNF	0140185151	331648920	The Fixer (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Man's Ability to Endure, If Not Triumph	Author Malamud has created a character, Yakov Bok, who embodies the definition of endurance.  Living the in the early part of the twentieth century under Czarist rule, Yakov is imprisoned for a crime he did not commit.  Because Yakov is a Jew, his plight is not just about the crime but about the state of persecution which existed in the Russian state.  Malamud writes convincingly of what life must have been like in a Russian prison, living for years at a time in solitary confinement, not even being tried for the crime until the state can manufacture enough evidence to convict an innocent man.  Bok is a three dimension character, full of faults yet also able to stand up for a principle.  In some ways, the prose is painful as Malamud does a masterful job of describing the suffering of not only Bok, but of those others who try to help him.<br />My only complaint (and the reason it did not get 5 stars) was the ending which was so abrupt that I actually checked to make sure that the copy I had did not have any ripped out pages.  I didn't need a complete wrap up but felt that at least some hint of the future for Bok was needed.  I am sure that Malamud felt that his ending allowed the reader to write their own, but I would have liked at least a better conclusion.  Overall, however, I would still rank this book as a must read.  I have studied a lot of Russian history but this viewpoint is usually from those of wealth and power.  Reading about the trials if the everyday Russian Jew was fascinating.	2003-06-06
US	50499876	RQ1960IM988ZJ	0393964582	655343360	Frankenstein	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not What You Think!	If you think you know Frankenstein because you have seen the classic 1930's Hollywood movie, then you really don't know Frankenstein.  The short novel upon which the movie is loosely based (so loosely as to be almost a different story)is a morality tale on the creation of life and the obligations of the creator and the created.  Mary Shelley was only twenty when she wrote the novel, begun when a house party attended by the poet Byron and Shelley's husband, the poet Percy Shelley decided to swap \\"ghost\\" stories one evening.  Only Mary Shelley completed her story and this is the 1818 text presented in this book.<br />One main objection I have about this book (and the only reason that kept it from getting 5 stars) is basically the plot itself.  If you think that a tight plausible plot is needed, then this is not the book for you.  There are too many holes and too many times I found myself asking, Why would the character do this?  But if you read for language and philosophical thought, then Frankenstein is a perfect short read.  The monster is very erudite and able to express his emotions perfectly.  Why was he created and how can he endure if all he receives is the scorn and hatred of those around him?  What is the obligation of the creator-to please his creation or keep him from doing harm to others?  This is the true core of the story and the contrasting feelings between Victor Frankenstein, the creator and the monster fill the pages.<br />While not a difficult read, it is one that is totally unexpected if you have no prior knowledge of the novel's difference with the movie.  While the movie is rightfully a classic, the book delves more into the spiritual and emotional realms of creation and its affect on all.  I would highly recommend this book for those who are intrigued by the beauty of language and thought.  J	2003-02-06
US	50499876	R3PTRJB7Q1OHE8	039395904X	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Psychological Portrait of Repression	I had long heard of Henry James and his short novella, The Turn of the Screw and decided to read it, thinking that at only 88 pages long, it would not take more than one evening.  Three evenings later, I finished the text and I must admit slightly confused.  I had to reread the ending several times to truly understand what had happened.  Thankfully, I had the critical edition, which included several essays on the story, one in particular by Edmund White which profoundly changed my opinion of the story.<br />A simple ghost story on the face of it, but in reality a pre-Freudian tale of sexual repression.  Narrated by an unnamed governess who ventures to a country house to take charge of two young orphaned children, it soon becomes a tale of ghosts, mysteries and secrets.  Always alluded to and never talked about at face value, the governess becomes convinces that the ghosts are after the children and she alone can save them.  But are there really ghosts?  The reader must go beyond the plot and carefully read the language...all the language.  James writes like no other author I have ever read.  The best word to describe it is \\"dense\\".  With almost no dialogue, the narrator can spend pages describing her thoughts and feelings, yet these are so \\"coded\\" as to decipher her real meaning takes much concentration on the part of the reader.  I know that James himself thought the story an amusement only, but the critical essays I read after the book deeply impressed me that the story has hidden depths which make it all the more interesting.<br />I would recommend this novella to anyone with the patience to read it thoroughly and with an open mind as to its meaning.  I would strongly recommend the critical edition which helps the reader better understand the story's meaning and importance in literature.	2003-02-03
US	50499876	RST2WTTOUPLG7	0306806193	834218148	The Fall Of Berlin	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Fall of Berlin	Starting with the Olympics of 1936, authors Read and Fisher chronicle the history of Berlin during the years prior to World War II and ending with the Battle of Berlin.  Focusing not only on the known historical players such as Hitler and Goebbels, but including excerpts from diaries of every day Berliners, the book reads almost like a novel with a cast of thousands.  At first, Berliners are stunned that Hitler is able to conqueror most of continental Europe through sheer bravado alone.  The general consensus seems to be that eventually the world will see Hitler and the Nazis for what they really are and sanity will once again prevail.  But of course, we can now look back in hindsight and realize that the complacency of the general population and the other world leaders is precisely what led to Hitler wreaking havoc on the world.<br />Most of the chapters are very short, no more than 3-4 pages long.  This help keeps the pace of the book from bogging down into too much detail.  Much information is given on the daily life of Berliners, how ration cards worked, etc.  In addition, the authors do an excellent job of describing how different groups, Jews, immigrants, forced laborers, Hitler Youth, etc. reacted to the changing world as eventually Berlin spiraled into chaos.  The innumerable bombings, which nightly rocked the city, are described in detail and how the city reacted, as first stunned and then eventually immune to the terror.  The first 200 pages of the book cover the years from 1936 until March, 1945 while the remaining 250 pages detail the Battle of Berlin.  Through complicated political considerations, the Soviets are allowed to conquer the city while the British and American troops hold back.  Because the Soviet Union suffered so much during the war, especially the siege of Stalingrad, it is deemed only fitting that they make the first attempt on the city.  The first wave of soldiers were professionals while the second wave of soldiers-former prisoners of the Germans, took out their hatred in raping, looting and pillaging.  In the first 8 weeks after the fall of Berlin, over 90,000 German women had seen doctors due being raped by the Soviet soldiers.  How many never reported this crime cannot even be estimated.<br />I would highly recommend this book to any student of World War II history who wants a good grasp of the social and political effects of war on a major industrialized city.  Well written and well documented, the book allows readers to relive one of the most horrific time periods in modern history.  It also allows the reader to better understand how the Nazis maintained their power until the very end over an educated populace.  Hopefully lessons such as these will not go unheeded for future generations.of the Germans, took out their hatred in raping, looting and pillaging.  In the first 8 weeks after the fall of Berlin, over 90,000 German women had seen doctors due being raped by the Soviet soldiers.  How many never reported this crime cannot even be estimated.  <br />I would highly recommend this book to any student of World War II history who wants a good grasp of the social and political effects of war on a major industrialized city.  Well written and well documented, the book allows readers to relive one of the most horrific time periods in modern history.  It also allows the reader to better understand how the Nazis maintained their power until the very end over an educated populace.  Hopefully lessons such as these will not go unheeded for future generations.	2003-01-27
US	50499876	R10NWZHKUB45HT	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Definition of Passion	If I were a contributor to a dictionary and was asked for a definition of the word passion, I would simply write....\\"See Wuthering Heights\\".  All the basic human emotions- love, hate, jealously, pride, are on display in this novel but at their penultimate height.  Cathy just doesn't love Heathcliff- he is  part of her very being.  Heathcliff just doesn't hate his son Linton- he must fully destroy him.  In real life, no one would want to meet, let alone spend any time with any of these people (except perhaps for Ellen Deane, a housekeeper who recounts the story to her new employer-good eye for detail as she spins her tale).  But to live with them through the pages of a novel-pure heaven.  No other book I have read from this time period even comes close to the modernity of this novel.  Heathcliff and Cathy are not destined to be together, because Cathy is unable to forgo the warm pleasures that money can bring.  She marries Edgar Linton, a good man devoted to Cathy and for a time Cathy settles in to this life.  But as soon as Heathcliff re-enters her life, she is determined to possess him as she did before and Edgar must just understand.  Why should he be jealous? Cathy asks.  There is not hint of a sexual relationship between Cathy and Heathcliff but something deeper, deeper than even love.  Edgar, like most human beings, feels unable to share his spouse in this kind of relationship and being thwarted in her desires, Cathy pines and eventually dies.  But this happens in the first half of the book-what are the remaining 150 pages about?  Since Heathcliff can never be happy since Cathy is gone, then he decides that no one will be happy and he takes his revenge.  And what revenge!  Just from general knowledge, I knew what to expect in the first half of the book but the second half was a revelation.  Emily Bronte has created a character in Heathcliff that breaks almost every moral code of the time and yet the reader sympathizes with him, no matter how monstrous his actions.  I can't think of another writer alive or dead who could have pulled off this feat so well.  The writing is beautiful and the dialogues between Cathy and Heathcliff are richly poetic.<br />If you haven't read Wuthering Heights, do yourself a favor and run to find a copy.  Reading experiences such as this are rare- a perfectly written novel with characters you will remember forever.  The world lost a great novelist with the death of Emily Bronte after only one novel.  It makes the reader wonder what else she could have produced.ns.  I can't think of another writer alive or dead who could have pulled off this feat so well.  The writing is beautiful and the dialogues between Cathy and Heathcliff are richly poetic.<br />If you haven't read Wuthering Heights, do yourself a favor and run to find a copy.  Reading experiences such as this are rare- a perfectly written novel with characters you will remember forever.  The world lost a great novelist with the death of Emily Bronte after only one novel.  It makes the reader wonder what else she could have produced.	2003-01-27
US	50499876	R3BRBGQJ4DB3TG	0192837028	368367935	Germinal (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Zola's Masterpiece	Germinal is generally considered the greatest of Emile Zola's twenty novel Rougon-Macquart cycle.  Of these, Germinal is the most concerned with the daily life of the working poor.  Set in the mid 1860's, the novel's protaganist Etienne Lantier is hungry and homeless, wandering the French countryside, looking for work.  He stumbles upon village 240, the home of a coal mine, La Voreteux.  He quickly gets a job in the depths of the mine, experiencing the backbreaking work of toiling hundreds of feet below the earth.  He is befriended by a local family and they all lament the constant work required to earn just enough to slowly starve.  Fired up by Marxist ideology, he convinces the miners to strike for a pay raise.  The remainder of the novel tells the story of the strike and its effect on the workers, managers, owners and shareholders.<br />Zola weaves a strong plot line along with a multitude of characters.  The hallmark of this novel is the wealth of people who populate the pages.  The miners are not the noble poor but men and women who live day to day, cruel in some ways, generous in others.  The managers are owners are not evil, greedy men but complex characters who in some ways envy the freedom of the miners from conventional morality.<br />As with most Zola novels, don't expect a happy ending.  But the reader can expect to be transported to a world and a way of life almost unimaginable for its brutality and bleakness. Like other great works of literature, the novel explores the thoughts and actions of people who suffer the daily indignities of poverty and injustice.  Germinal is different however because the thoughts and actions are not noble and the consequences of their actions are felt by all.  I would strongly recommend Germinal as one of the major novels of the 19th century but one that transcends time and place.  The issues evoked in the novel regarding labor versus capital are just as relevant to today's world.	2003-01-23
US	50499876	RABN6HN6SUE07	0385489498	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Scapegoat of the Revolution	Marie Antoinette has fascinated countless generations since she met her untimely death at the guillotine during the height of the French Revolution.  Was she a wanton woman concerned only with her own pleasure or was she loving wife and mother, caught up in circumstances beyond her control?  The general consensus now seems to be the latter and biographer Antonia Fraser makes a strong case for this perception.  While Marie Antoinette had many faults (reckless spending chief amongst these), Fraser points out that Antoinette was only fourteen when she married Louis Auguste, the Dauphin, heir to his grandfather Louis XV.  Never properly educated by her mother Empress Marie Therese of Austria, Antoinette did her best to fulfill her number one purpose in life-to produce an heir.  Unfortunately, the Dauphin had almost no sexual drive at all, and the marriage would be unconsummated for years.  It was during this time, that public opinion seemed to form its worst opinions of Antoinette.  Seen as a reckless gambler, more concerned with parties and spending, Antoinette did court disaster with her own behavior.  However, as Fraser points out, the inability to produce an heir was not her fault entirely but rather simply two very young and inexperienced people who had no real idea of what was expected of them.  A visit from Antoinette's brother, the Emperor Joseph II led to a frank talk with both and soon after that, the marriage was finally consummated.  It was not long before a child was born (a daughter), followed in turn by two sons and one more daughter (only two children would survive Antoinette).<br />At this point, Marie Antoinette the mother becomes dominant and she no longer occupied herself with frivolous past times.  But the die had been cast with the French people who could never see her than anything else but a pleasure loving seductress, living off the misery of others.  Fraser does an admirable job of point out that Antoinette's expenditures were no more than the others around her and she possessed a real desire to help the French people.  Those who knew her intimately thought her a kind and loving person and these qualities were put to the test after the French Revolution left her and her family at the mercy of the mob.  It is in the last three years of her life that we see the real Marie Antoinette, a woman devoted to her husband and her family, a woman willing to do whatever she could to avoid bloodshed.  But events moved too swiftly and hundreds of years of oppression by the nobility had focused the hatred of the French people on perhaps the most innocent of victims.  I think it is interesting to note that Louis XVI had no mistresses, unlike his previous two successors, and that this allowed the French people to concentrate their hatred on Marie Antoinette since they felt no on else could have swayed his decision making.  In previous reigns, the mistresses had been accused of leading the king astray.  Madame Montespan, Madame de Pompadour and the Countess du Barry had been seen as the villains in early times and they bore the brunt of the ill feelings against the court.<br />While Marie Antoinette is the main focus of the biography, many other lives are illuminated.  Maria Therese, Empress of Austria and mother of Antoinette is a stern woman, bent on ruling over the lives of all her daughters, regardless of their location or position.  Louis XVI is a weak man, unable to make decisions when needed yet never cruel or vindictive.  Count Fersen, the only viable candidate as an actual lover of Marie Antoinette, who never stopped trying to help her and her family during her final years as a captive of the revolution.<br />Antonia Fraser has done a marvelous job of making Marie Antoinette come to life, portraying both her good and bad qualities yet ultimately demonstrating that she surely never deserved what fate finally had in store for her.  I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a fuller understanding of the eventsleading up to the French Revolution and how a scapegoat was made of a young wife and mother unable to control the events around her.nts leading up to the French Revolution and how a scapegoat was made of a young wife and mother unable to control the events around her.	2003-01-21
US	50499876	R2J93LU250E6C6	0142002267	437745521	Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players	Books	4	5	6	N	N	It Takes All Kinds!	While this book is the tale of a professional sports writer who decides to try to become a competitive Scrabble player, it is really a tale of obsession.  The players detailed in the book have no other goal in life except to win as many Scrabble games by the widest margin as often as they can.  And in order to achieve this goal, the players must spend an immense amount of time studying word lists, and analyzing prior plays to determine how best to play the board.  Some of the players spend more time studying and playing the game than any full time job would require.  Since most of them don't have a job, they are able to commit huge word lists to memory.  The funny thing is that very few of them actually know the meaning of the words they use, only that they exist as words.  And any outside person to the game would probably not recognize 70% of the words played.<br />I remember reading a study years ago that eccentrics, people who become obsessed with an hobby or pastime, often live longer than other people because their single minded devotion actually gives them more of a purpose to live.  If that is true, then many of the players highlighted in this book should see one hundred years at least.  While it is hard to understand their obsession, I did some to admire the players.  They are truly doing what they want to do.  They have not conformed to the 9-5 working day, with a spouse and 1.8 children.  While most players have very limited funds, none of the players seemed to moan about the lack of money.  As long as they had enough to provide for the most basic needs, Scrabble fulfilled the rest of their life.  Since Fatsis interviewed very few family members of the players, it was difficult to see the impact that this lifestyle had on the family.  But one father did bemoan the fact that this two sons, both in their 30's never seemed to be able to hold a job and were content to do nothing else except play Scrabble and live at home with their elderly father.<br />Author Fatsis does a wonderful job of describing the players and their motivation.  He asks hard questions and doesn't hesitate to point out how odd their viewpoints are when compared to the rest of society.  Yet he also wonders at the way their brains work, the amazing ability these players possess to see words out of a random set of letters.  He stands in awe of the immense amount of work that players have devoted to the game and wonders how much it would take to lure him into this sub-culture.  I would recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in the game because much detail is given about its origins, and the various strategies employed to become a competitive player.  But I would also recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand obsession and how one single purpose in life can shape that life.r Fatsis does a wonderful job of describing the players and their motivation.  He asks hard questions and doesn't hesitate to point out how odd their viewpoints are when compared to the rest of society.  Yet he also wonders at the way their brains work, the amazing ability these players possess to see words out of a random set of letters.  He stands in awe of the immense amount of work that players have devoted to the game and wonders how much it would take to lure him into this sub-culture.  I would recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in the game because much detail is given about its origins, and the various strategies employed to become a competitive player.  But I would also recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand obsession and how one single purpose in life can shape that life.	2003-01-21
US	50499876	R29WL1K9XGCLQY	0679454810	937658431	Seven Ages of Paris	Books	5	77	79	N	N	Ahhhh Paris!	One of the most beautiful cities in the world has finally found a worthy biographer in A. J. Horne.  Paris has always held a fascination for most, being a center of not only political and commercial interest, but also home to the art and culture known throughout the world.  Horne's book describes the history of the city, with particular interest on the architectural changes, by highlighting seven different time periods, beginning with an introduction of the early beginnings of the city culminating in the late 1960's riots which shook Paris.  Wonderfully written, with snippets of information hard to find elsewhere.  For example, I often wondered by St. Genevieve was the patron saint of the city.  Horne supplies that information that very early during the history of the city an attack was feared from the invaders of the west and as the city prepared to flee, young Genevieve had a vision that the attack would not take place and halted the evacuation.  It's little pieces of information such as this, which made the book an exceptionally fun as well as educating read.<br />Special attention is also paid to other significant historical events, especially those after the 1600's.  What really strikes the read is one thing: the number of uprisings (the French Revolution of 1789 was only one in a series) that had struck the city, most of them organized on a grass roots level.  This also helps explains why the cobblestones of the streets have been cemented into place...these make very good missiles for those fed up with the weak administration of the city.  That is another point that the author stresses...sanitation and city planning came very late to Paris, and this led to unimaginable squalor in various quarters of the city.<br />The reader is also introduced to some of the great figures of French history, particularly Henri IV (famous for his \\"Paris is worth a mass\\") and Emperor Napoleon III (who fled the country immediately following the defeat of the French in the Franco-Prussian war).  Other notables include Haussman who reinvented the look of the city we now see.<br />The writing is crisp and flows wonderfully from chapter to chapter.  Not at all a technical march of statistics, but a story of one of the most beautiful cities in the world.  Highly recommended for everyone who ever dreams of Paris.russian war).  Other notables include Haussman who reinvented the look of the city we now see.  <br />The writing is crisp and flows wonderfully from chapter to chapter.  Not at all a technical march of statistics, but a story of one of the most beautiful cities in the world.  Highly recommended for everyone who ever dreams of Paris.	2003-01-10
US	50499876	R1T1Q4QGWQX1Q	0393974987	573665066	The Mayor of Casterbridge (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For?	Since I have decided to dedicate part of my time spent reading in 2003 to the classics, I started first with The Mayor of Casterbridge, not the most famous of Hardy's works but seemingly a good place to start. I will definitely read the other works by this author since I was so captivated by this book.<br />The novel begins with the sale of Michael Henchard's wife and child to the highest bidder at a local summer fair. Henchard is drunk and his wife, tired of his habits, decides to leave with the sailor who bids on her and her daughter. Henchard wakes up the next morning, somewhat remorseful for what he has done and vows not to drink for twenty-one years.<br />The very next chapter picks up the story nineteen years later, with the return of the wife and child into Henchard's life. Henchard is now quite wealthy and is such an important man in his community, he is now Mayor of Casterbridge. From here, a series of wrong decisions and misunderstandings lead to the devastating conclusion.<br />Hardy is well known for his tendency towards gloomy endings and this book certainly fits the mold. But he is also well known for his lyrical descriptions of the English countryside and describing a way of life which had disappeared even in his own time. There were beautiful passages about the hay carts being driven through town, loaded so high that people on the second floor of homes could reach out and touch the top of the hay. Small details abound, describing the sound of rain on trees and the smell of the local foods. But perhaps the most significant aspect of the novel for me was the feeling that Henchard had wished for everything that had happened to him, and all of his wishes came true, and thus ultimately his downfall. These wishes were almost all made in a rash moment, when perhaps a minute or more of reflection could have produced a clearer head. Yet Henchard lives by his instincts, since for almost twenty years they seemed to serve him well.<br />I would recommend this book to any serious literature lover and I believe it serves as a good introduction to his other works. His books serve as a bridge from Victorian literature to modern literature, with no happy endings guaranteed.ok to any serious literature lover and I believe it serves as a good introduction to his other works. His books serve as a bridge from Victorian literature to modern literature, with no happy endings guaranteed.	2003-01-09
US	50499876	R303C9K5QP3HQ2	0786710276	616174365	The Revenant	Books	5	19	26	N	N	And You Thought You Were Having A Bad Day	Author Punke does an excellent job of presenting the true story of Hugh Glass, a scout for a trapping party exploring the Missouri River area in 1823.  During this expedition, he was horribly mauled by a bear but managed to survive even though severely wounded.  Unfortunately, the two men assigned to wait with him until he either got better or died, deserted him with no weapons or tools.  The remainder of the book tells of Hugh's story of survival and revenge.<br />Excellently written with vivid characters, the story demonstrates again just how unforgiving nature can be but how one man can survive even against huge odds.<br />I would definitely recommend this book.	2002-10-24
US	50499876	R3V728VWM5PMHT	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Epic Tale of Sacrifice	Set the days before and during the French Revolution, Charles Dickens wrote an epic tale of love, friendship, courage and sacrifice.  The opening and closing lines are some of the most famous in all of literature and while other reviewers have commented on the slow start of the story (which I do agree), the last two-thirds move at breakneck speed.  Other reviewers have also commented on the length of the descriptive prose but this is one of the most beautiful parts of the story.  The plot itself could have been easily condensed but then it becomes nothing more than a television show.  It is by the words that the author employs that makes the reader become part of the story, so much so that you can see the streets and feel the wind cutting through your bones.<br />While the main female character (Lucie Manette) is rather a cardboard cut-out of an idealized Victorian woman, the other female lead Madame Defarge is a study of bitterness.  Her cruelty seems to know no bounds until we find out the reason for her feelings, then it is easy to understand and in a way sympathize.  The male characters of Dr. Manette and Sydney Carton are extremely well done, the very embodiment of human frailty while Charles Darnay remains something of a female version of Lucie, almost too good to be true.<br />I would recommend this book to all readers and hope that they can enjoy the prose as it was meant to be enjoyed, long before the 5 second sound bite and the 30 minute sitcom conditioned us to expect immediate gratification.	2002-10-07
US	50499876	R3HJ5DRRRKX2VI	0715311700	284670217	A Cross Stitcher's Oriental Odyssey	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	By Far the Best	I love cross stitch and needlepoint and I also love oriental designs.  This book fits both criteria and then some!  You will find wonderful designs, some very small and quite a few large ones.  Two things are really appreciated...very few colors are used (which is amazing given the depth of the designs) and very few fractional stitches are used, which again makes the stitching that much more enjoyable.  Three large designs of geisha's are included and several designs focus on oriental plants and calligraphy.  I would definitely rate this as one of the best cross stitch books I have ever purchased.	2002-07-08
US	50499876	R772CF06LTFOR	0312875819	678428119	The Sand-Reckoner: A Novel of Archimedes (Tom Doherty Associates Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Relive the life of a Genius	A beautifully written story about Archimedes of Syracuse, one of the most famous engineers and mathematicians of ancient times.  The story begins with the return of Archimedes and Marcus, his slave, from Alexandria back to his home in Syracuse.  He finds his father close to death and now must assume his role as head of his small family.  His brilliance attracts the attention of the king, Herion, who quickly realizes the value of a engineer for his defense of the city against the ever present Romans.<br />The story concentrates on the first attempted invasion by the Romans and how Archimedes and his tremendous catapults are used to keep the city safe.  However, a major plot line also details the story of Marcus the slave and his feelings for his adopted city versus the land of his birth.  This story is beautifully told and adds immeasureably to the story.  One of the most fascinating characters is also the king, Herion who seems to enbody the best of all leadership skills.  His relationship with both Archimedes and Marcus is interesting to read.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in this time period.  The reader actually feels like they have been transported back in time to the streets of Syracuse.	2002-02-14
US	50499876	R3CYPOEVQK8W15	0060932953	426668709	The Great Arc: The Dramatic Tale of How India Was Mapped and Everest Was Named	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting Science Biography	Similar scientific biographies such as this book have become quite common.  Longitude and Riddle of the Compass are two that come to mind.  I personally enjoy such books as they usually take something that most modern people take for granted and explain the work and effort that went into various types of discoveries.<br />The Great Arc is an interesting story of a very difficult subject.  A survey of the Indian sub-continent was not only difficult due to the distances and the lack of computers to crunch the unbelievable amount of data, but also the weather and the various illnesses that seem to decimate these kinds of endeavors.  William Lambton, who most people have probably never heard of, takes it upon himself as an officer in the British Army, to begin a survey of the Indian sub-continent done on an amazingly precise and accurate scale.  The years that he spends battling the elements and the lack of help are well told.  His successor, George Everest is an extremely difficult man to work for but he does yields some vast improvements to the surveying process.<br />Very little time is spent on Mount Everest, other than to explain the origin of the name and some of the debate about calculating the height of the mountain range.  Overall, however, this book was an excellent story on the quest to survey with almost fanatical precision a large piece of the earth and the men, many of whom died in the process, whod dedicated their lives and careers to thsi endeavor.	2002-02-11
US	50499876	R2748VTTMKQRXD	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Beginnings of theHundred Years War	Having read the excellent Warlord Chronicles, a three book epic of Arthur, written by the same author, I eagerly looked forward to his latest work.  Set in the mid-14th century, it is the tale of Thomas of Hookton, the illegimate son of the local priest.  His village on the coast of England is sacked by French pirates, who seem to have a particular goal in mind, of stealing a relic, a lance, which hangs in the local church.  Angered at the loss of his family, Thomas enlist in the army as an archer.  The remainder of the tale takes place in France, where Thomas is involved in some of the major skirmishes and battles which begin the Hundred Year Wars. There is a very interesting sub-plot involving a young widowed noblewoman and the search by Thomas for the family which his father shunned years ago.<br />The characters are memorable and well drawn out.  The battle scenes are easy to follow and yet convey what it must have been like in such primitive conditions.  I really enjoyed the book and look forward to what surely must be a sequel since while some loose ends were tied up, others remain open.	2002-02-11
US	50499876	RPURKOGN9YRAS	0805033203	365181304	A Short History of a Small Place: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of My Favorite Books!	After reading the other reviews on this book, I decided that I must give it a try and I am so glad that I did!  What is really a very simple story of an older spinster who kills herself by jumping off the local water tower, is actually a side-splitting yarn about life in a small Southern town.  The narrator's voice is pure and authentic, telling tales told to him by his daddy, about the local inhabitants.  Yet every character will become etched in your memory.  This book reminds those of us who really love to read, why we love it so.  While this book could easily be filmed as a movie, only a book can relay the more subtle emotions which not only make it funny but indeed wistful.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Whatever you do, treat yourself to his masterpiece of American literature.	2002-02-11
US	50499876	RQIM0DL2MBB7X	0743412338	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	And Now For Something Completely Different!	As much as I love fantasy novels, I find that many follow a very similar formula and can become very repetitive.  Whast a joy to find something totally different.  Imagine a heroic epic which is narrarated by the sidekick, not the hero.<br />Apropos is born of a violent gang rape and is lame at birth.  Fighting every step of the way to improve his life, he finds a friend in Tacit, who is everything that Apropos is not.  But about half way through the book, you see Apropos decide that he will be the hero of his life, and things quickly start to happen.  The most sigificant difference in this book is that the character does not grow.  He remains true to his own thoughts and feelings, for better or worse.  The usual elements of fantasy, i.e. kings, princesses, unicorns, phoenixes, populate the story but serve to really enhance the action, not just simply to create elements of fantasy.<br />I really enjoyed this novel and look forward to a sequel.  The humor is especially welcome and yet I think the author makes some very serious comments on how to live to one's own destiny.	2002-02-04
US	50499876	R3EQG9416IM6YP	0679779175	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Apply Philosophy to Your Everyday Life	After reading How Proust Can Change Your Life, also by author Botton, I searched out his other works.  This book is an attempt to highlight the works of six famous philosophers and to apply their writings to everyday experiences.  Socrates and Epicurus represents the works of the ancient Greek and Roman philosophers.  I especially found the information on Epicurus to be useful in life.  The word Epicurean has come to symbolize lavish living but actually Epicurus writes that wants can be pared down to necessities, such as friendship, and that everyone can \\"afford\\" to be happy.  The most interesting chapters to me dealt with philosophers Montaigne and Nietzsche.  Montaigne was one of the first to write of the total human experience, not just the \\"pretty\\" parts.  My favorite observation in the entire book comes when Montaigne must pay homage to his best friend, who has just died suddenly.  \\"He alone had the privilege of my true portrait.\\"  It is difficult to find another human being who you can truly be yourself with, warts and all.  The chapter on Nietzsche deals with preparing for the difficulties of life and how by only experiencing discomfort or suffering can we truly achieve our dreams.  If one constantly avoids pain, the greatest achievements available to humans cannot be obtained.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in philosophy, especially a beginner.  It spurred me to read Montaigne's essays.  Complete with illustrations and pictures which serve to illuminate the text, this is a wonderful book.	2001-08-23
US	50499876	R1D6HB7INUNS2P	0451171357	85902037	The Agony and the Ecstasy: A Biographical Novel of Michelangelo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Captures the Spirit of an Artist	One of the best biographical novels produced, author Stone does a tremendous job of capturing the life of Michelangelo.  Born into a family that has seen better times, Michelangelo is eager to pursue a living as a sculptor.  However, any work, no matter how creative or artistic, is seen as manual labor.  He defies his father and at age 13 becomes an apprentice to a fresco painter.  The scene where Michelangelo realizes that not only can he not afford to pay his teacher but must ask for pay is a strong indication of the character of the artist.  His determination to overcome the obstacles set by his family enable him to achieve his dreams.  His obsession with his work and the total lack of material wants exhibited by the artist also single him out, even compared to others in his day in age.<br />Author Stone moves quickly through the events in his long life, from his work as a young teenager for Lorenzo de Medici (the Magnificent), to his first sculptures.  His work on the Pieta and David while still a man in his early twenties is astonishing.  It is pointed out several times in the book that sculpture such as Michelangelo created had not been attempted since the times of the Greeks and Romans.  While trained as a painter, his true love was marble.  However, when the Pope request the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel be painted by Michelangelo, he reacts as always, ready to give it only his best, since nothing else would suffice.<br />After the creation of the Sistine Chapel masterpiece, his life becomes mired in political conflict, which causes his art to suffer.  While still creating masterpieces, such as the tomb for Pope Julius II and his other fresco masterpiece, The Last Judgement, the remainder of his years are spent on fruitless tasks, such as developing ways to quarry marble, etc.<br />I would recommend this book highly to anyone with an interest in the arts, especially one of the great masters.  Michelangelos private and artistic life are both fully explored and leave the reader with a greater understanding of the time period.lly explored and leave the reader with a greater understanding of the time period.	2001-08-23
US	50499876	R1RZSRNB6WVJKL	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining and Quick	Usually I read history and biographies but every once in a while I like to read a mystery or thriller.  Something that I can read quickly and not have to invest too much of myself in.  This book fits that qualification well.  The main characters were well thought out and very interesting.  They have more dimensions that most books of this genre usually endow their characters with.  The story is very fast paced and carefully plotted.  A young doctors loses his wife and while not adjusting well, has come to accept the fact that she is gone.  The without warning, he receives e-mail messages which leads him to believe she is still alive.  This sets off an interesting search.  Other characters, such as the lesbian lover of the husband's sister and the friends who try to help him in his quest, are also very well captured.<br />I would recommend this book highly to anyone looking for a bit of a diversion.  This is the perfect summertime &quot;beach book&quot;.	2001-08-09
US	50499876	R22DX7ZBRNME1P	0060192364	330150179	Katastrophe: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting Premise Followed Through	This book hooked me from the very start.  What would happen if a happily married father of one was hyponotized and recalled an earlier life as Adolf Hitler?  Author Boyll puts together a chilling tale of how the media will take an incident and create news and what this can do to the life of a family.  While far fetched in some aspects, you can quite literally picture seeing this on &quot;Current Affair&quot; or &quot;Hard Copy&quot;.  The writing is extremely well done and the characters are fully realized.  I would recommend this book highly.	2001-08-09
US	50499876	R1WQJ044N1AMMJ	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Wonderful history but light on the mystery	Historical mysteries are gaining in popularity and this book is a good example of how well this genre can be done.  A beguiling main character, Captain Abel Jones is a recent immigrant to the United States.  His past army career has led to an position in the United States army.  Due to injuries, he is sidelined but called upon one day to investigate the murder of a young, well known abolitionist.  His investigation unearths the secrets of many but ultimately finds the truth concerning the death of the young man.  The Civil War element is very well done but the mystery itself seems too inconsequential.  I was not particularly surprised at the uncovering of the real killer.  However, I would read the second in the series because of the great writing and character development presented in this book.	2001-08-09
US	50499876	RW9BWRE3KTXD2	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Small Treasure	I admit that I have never read Proust.  Having heard of the books collectively called &quot;Remembrance of Things Past&quot;, I had also heard that they were quite long and involved.  However, after reading this slim volume I believe I might pick up Proust's masterpiece.  What struck me the most about this book is the ability of the author Botton to find those small snippets of prose which seem to speak the loudest.  One of my favorite parts is the attack on hackneyed phrases used by authors to describe things like the &quot;shimmering moon&quot;.  Proust argues that by reducing complex thought to such a rote phrase, man looses to ability to see the true object and make his own observations.  I have actually started to apply this to my own life.  I try to look at objects I see everyday and think how I could describe this.<br />I enjoyed the book and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in not only Proust but on the effect of literature on our lives.	2001-08-08
US	50499876	R2TLAM9U3CGDGI	0465067611	544791997	Queen Victoria A Personal History	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Not as Victorian as you might think!	Author Hibbert has done a fine job of relating the life story of Queen Victoria.  The woman who lent her name to an age characterized by prudery comes across surprisingly open minded.  Her views on childbirth and religion certainly don't seem to fit in with the times.  She gladly accepts drugs to help with the pain of childbirth and encourages others to do so also.  While a religious woman, she didn't seem particularly anxious to press her views on others.  Her relationship with her children is detailed and her concern that her grandchildren make happy marriages, rather than dynastic marriages is touching.  I particularly enjoyed the chapters on her relationship with John Brown, the Scotsman who served her faithfully after the death of her beloved Albert.  Like most woman, she seemed to enjoy the company of a man.<br />The only small complaint I have with the book is the order.  The chapters focus on various parts of her life, rather than chronologically.  I prefer a chronological order because then you can view various actions in their total context.  It helps to know what else was going on in her life during her struggles with her eldest son for example.  However, I would recommend the book to anyone with more than a passing interest in the subject.  Queen Victoria has found an admirable biographer and she comes to life as a dynamic woman.	2001-08-06
US	50499876	R39BJ4KD1GFJ6J	039331376X	956056365	Frederick Douglass	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Uninspired Examination of a Monuemental Life	Looking for a biography of the former slave turned lecturer and abolitionist, I came across this work by author McFeely.  The first section regarding the birth and circumstances of Douglass' flight to freedom was full of what I consider &quot;psychobabble&quot;.  The author makes too many conjectures concerning the relationship of Douglass with his owner, including possible latent homosexual feelings but never includes any information to back this claim up.  The story picks up when Douglass moves to New England and becomes involved in the abolistionist causes.  His travels to England and his relationship with women working for the cause of women's suffrage is particularly interesting.  However, the remainder of the book seems to meander with no purpose.<br />I am still searching for a biography which puts this man's life into context.	2001-08-06
US	50499876	R1EYZCA44MLMHB	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Could have been great....	After seeing the mess of a movie called &quot;The Ninth Gate&quot;, I thought perhaps the book might be better.  In many cases, a fine novel is turned into a poor movie.  In this case, a mediocre book was turned into a horrible movie.<br />The book had all the ingredients of a thriller, satanic cults, mysterious deaths, etc.  The characters were appealing, such as the main character Lucas Corso.  But it never fully jelled together.  Some major gaps remained unexplained and the ending was not dramatic enough to have sustained the previous pages.  I would not call reading this book a waste of time as it can be read fairly quickly but I would not recommend it highly.	2001-07-24
US	50499876	R2ATC4Q1CAWX9X	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Read this book!	This is perhaps the finest story of World War II I have ever read.  After the early defeat on the Philippine islands, a large number of US forces were stranded and forced to surrender to the Japanese.  The march of these men to their final POW camp has been enshrined as the infamous Baatan death march.  Once they reached their destination, many men were later sent to work in mines or factories in Japan but many remained in the horrible conditions of the camp.  As the war neared its conclusion, the American forces undertook to rescue the remaining soldiers in the belief that the Japanese may slaughter them rather than let them be rescued.  The book ends with this rescue.<br />Heroes abound in every page.  All with human failings, yet still one is overwhelmed with the simple decent humanity of these individuals.  The writing is excellent and the story moves at a breakneck speed.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Please read for yourself and realize the sacrifies of these men and women.	2001-07-24
US	50499876	R26FTQI48PZ806	0385067593	945744777	The Lost Queen	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Hardships of an English Princess	An emotional telling of the story of Princess Caroline of England.  Sister to King George III, she, like most royal daughters of that time, was forced to leave home and marry the King of Denmark.  Unfortunately, Christian of Denmark was insane as a result of contracting syphillis.  Her life with him was almost torture and before long she fell in love with the court physician who wanted to rule Denmark more along the lines of the English.  Of course, it ends disasterously.<br />Lofts does a very good job of conveying the feelings of the main characters and the reader develops an emotional attachment to their very sad lives.  Only one complaint, I wish the author would have given a brief epilogue about the characters, especially the children of Caroline.  I wondered what happened to her son and daughter.	2001-07-09
US	50499876	RFOS1RVXOCI1Q	0297781022	259333151	Emperor and the Actress: Love Story of Emperor Franz Josef and Katharina Schratt	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting Love Story	After reading a book about Empress Elisabeth of Austria, I noted in the bibliography a book about her husband Emperor Franz Joseph and his long term paramour, Katharina Schratt.  Because of the mental problems experienced by his wife, his relationship with her left the Emperor deeply unsatisified.  He was able to find love with an Austrian actress.  The emperor was in his 50's and the actress in her 30's and their romance lasted for the rest of their lives.<br />Author Haslip does an excellent job of describing the times in Vienna during the later half of the 19th century.  The affair is touching in that it was carried on discreetly but left both participants with some measure of personal happiness.  I would recommend this book to anyone interested in this time period and the personal lives of various historical figures.	2001-05-07
US	50499876	R20Y0YHKAJF0YM	0531150003	889163969	Lady Jane Grey and the House of Suffolk	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Study of Tudor England	Author Plowden is very well known for her books concerning the Tudor dynasty of England.  This book traces the story of Henry VIII's sister, Mary who first wed the elderly King of France.  Upon his swift demise, Mary pursued and won the man she wanted, Charles Brandon.  For a while she was banned from court for daring to marry for love, instead of dynastic reasons.  From this marriage, her offspring and their descendants would be tightly controlled by the subsequent Tudor monarchs, Edward V, Mary I and Elizabeth I.<br />While focusing on primarily Lady Jane Grey, the granddaughter of Mary Tudor, all other descendants (primarily female) are also discussed.  The complication succession to the throne made a minefield which ruined many lives.<br />The book is very well written and quotes extensively from original sources.  I would recommend it and any other Plowden books to anyone interested in Tudor England.	2001-05-07
US	50499876	R1C4IKCWO5DQI8	0201408236	733679103	Divorced, Beheaded, Survived: A Feminist Reinterpretation Of The Wives Of Henry VIII	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Excellent Reinterpretation of the Women in Henry's Life	Author Lindsey does a fine job of describing the Tudor time period and what being a women meant during that time.  All of the wives are examined in detailed, with Catherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn standing out compared to the others.  Especially Catherine who is portrayed as a very sympathetic character, with her unwavering love for her husband, no matter how fouly he has treated her. But it is not this undeserving love on her part which makes her stand out.  Of all of the wivesm Catherine defied him most openly and with such bravery and conviction that she seems the most modern of the wives. Henry VIII is not dealt with kindly but he does not seem to deserve any kind of credit for his treatment of these women.  His cold and calculating manner with Anne Boleyn is hard to fathom.<br />The title of the book is a little misleading.  While clearly a critique of the manner in which these women were treated, it is also clear that many women of this time led enriching and productive lives.  The text is lively and flows very smoothly.  After reading this book, I feel that I have a much better understanding of the time period.	2001-05-03
US	50499876	R2WYFM9NCXNNK7	0151983704	904810342	Women of Power: The Life and Times of Catherine De Medici	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Excellent Biography	Before reading this book, I knew very little about Catherine de Medici and how her reputation as an evil queen came about.  Author Strage does an excellent job of explaining young Catherine's life and how she came to be Queen of France.  For the first twenty years of her marriage, she lived under the shadow of her husband's mistress Diane de Poitiers and again the author does an excellent job of explaining this strange relationship.  After ten years of marriage, Catherine finally begins to bear children and these children will become the key players in the latter half of her life.  Three sons will succeed their father as kings while one daughter will marry Henri of Navarre and eventually he will succeed to the kingdom of France.  However, the religious wars of the period (between Protestants and Catholics) must first be fought.  Catherine has a major part to play in the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre and this infamous act will color all the rest of her life as perceived by future historians.<br />The books is very well written and especially accessible.  You do not need to know a lot about the time period to understand all the characters and their motivation.  I would recommend this book as good for someone just beginning to review this time in history.	2001-05-02
US	50499876	RLK5T5NRJ7O5M	0394537173	605358869	The Reluctant Empress: A Biography of Empress Elisabeth of Austria	Books	5	51	54	N	N	Wonderful Biography of a Difficult Woman	Elisabeth of Austria has held a strange fascination for many people, because of her reknown beauty and her strange relationship with her husand and children.  Married at 15 to the emperor of Austria, Elisabeth was under the domination of her mother in law.  Her first two children are virtually raised by her mother in law and she has very little impact on their life.  Feeling oppressed by the court atmosphere, Elisabeth escapes through numerous diversions, including exercise and horseback riding.  Supporting a constitutional monarchy, she alienates herself from her husband, who nevertheless continues to love her desperately.  Finally they are reconciled and she gives birth to her last child, a daughter who will be &quot;her&quot; child.  Elisabeth becomes increasing erratic until she finally removes herself from court life completely.  Her final years are marred by unhappiness with the suicide of her only son and her own death at the hands of an assassin.<br />Author Hamann does an excellent job of portryaing the life of this woman, who has often been compared to Princess Diana.  What really becomes clear is that Elisabeth must have suffered from some sort of mental breakdown and without help, she chose to life a life that brought unhappiness to quite a few people, including her husband and children.  The book is well written and captures the time period perfectly.	2001-05-02
US	50499876	R303RH9RDHI59R	0688060870	327718196	Bonnie Prince Charlie	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Overview of a Sad Life	The eldest son of James, the Old Pretender, Bonnie Price Charlie was raised to believe that the throne of England and Scotland was his destiny.  Born in Italy and used as a pawn of Louis XV against George II, Charles was seen as a promising young man.  In his early twenties, he sailed to Scotland and was able to convince several Highland chiefs to support his cause.  Numerous victories came swiftly because the English were unprepared for the various attacks.  However, once the English determined that the threat was real, Prince Charles and his troops were quickly over run.  He returned to France where he was asked to leave and again settled in Italy.  With no ambitions left to him, he quickly dissapated into an alcoholic daze.  He fathered one child by a Scottish woman and later married a German princess but that marriage quickly soured.  His later years were redeemed somewhat as his daughter Charlotte came to his aid.  He died, leaving his youngest brother Henry as the last Stuart pretender to the throne.  Henry was a Cardinal and therefore fathered no children so with his death the Stuart dynasty came to an end.<br />I enjoyed the book and found it useful for someone with limited knowledge of this time period.  Not very detailed with but a good overview of events.	2001-04-24
US	50499876	R3R9LJGZTBUPWL	0449910067	661337944	The Oracle Glass: A Novel	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Transport yourself to 17th century Paris!	Author Riley does a magnificent job of recreating the life of a young girl in Paris during the reign of Louis XIV.  Abandoned in her early years, Genevieve is finally brought home by her kind, scholarly father.  Events bring about a change which force her to abandon her family in fear of her life and she is suddenly helped by the mysterious La Voisin.  Well known throughout Paris as a fortune teller, La Voisin also has more pratical methods of helping her clients, such as poisons and back room abortions.<br />Blending fictional characters with historical characters, the author really evokes the time period and it is easy to imagine yourself living during this time.  I did think the story was slow to start but after about fifty pages, moved much more quickly.  I would recommend this book to anyone who loves good historical fiction.	2001-04-23
US	50499876	R2H67OH0ZXLECP	0393320391	494808707	A Rage to Live: A Biography of Richard and Isabel Burton	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Don't Get Too Close to Your Subject	This book should be read by all biographers as a warning as to what happens when an author becomes to close to their subject.  Richard Burton is a fascinating man and his exploits in India, Africa, South America, and the Middle East are truly epic in some cases.  His wife Isabel loved her husband, there can be no doubt.  But author Lovell blunts every criticism lodged against the couple, and portays those who critize them as petty and vindictive.<br />For example, Burton travels through Africa with a fellow Englishman, Speke. Both men are terribly ill throughout this trek which seems to be comprised of these two being dragged through the interior of Africa by their porters.  Speke regains his health somewhat to make a side trip which discovers a large lake in the interior of the country.  Once they return, Speke tries to take credit for the success of the trip and Burton becomes almost an outcast because of some issues over payment of the porters.  While Burton never returns to Africa, Speke makes another journey and discovers Lake Victoria which will be determined as one of the main sources of the Nile.  However, Lovell points out that Speke could not prove this at the time.  Speke is portrayed almost as a cruel and vindictive man, who rages against Burton for no apparent reason.<br />Later in his life, Burton works for the Foreign Office and becomes a consul at posts in Africa, Middle East, South America and Europe.  He never seems to actually do anything besides use these jobs as a convenient way to pay his bills.  He requests an inordinate amount of sick leave and then uses this time to journey to such places as Iceland to check on mining possibilities.  Yet the author insist that Burton was unfairly treated by the Foreign Office.<br />On the subject of Isabel Burton, the author goes to extremes.  It seems as if other biographers have been very critical of Isabel and her determination to nag to death everyone she knows for the sake of her husband's job promotions and in addition, she burns a manuscript at the time of his death which she considered pornographic.  The author makes every excuse for Isabel and defends her as working on the orders of her husband.<br />Overall, it seemed like the author became so entranced with both characters that she could not abide to write anything critical of them.  Yet it colors all of the information in the book to such a degree that the effect is to make both Richard and Isabel seem petty.  Indeed, the whole effect of the book to me is to belitte the efforts the Richard Burton because of the pettiness that both he and his wife seemed to revel in.ons and in addition, she burns a manuscript at the time of his death which she considered pornographic.  The author makes every excuse for Isabel and defends her as working on the orders of her husband.<br />Overall, it seemed like the author became so entranced with both characters that she could not abide to write anything critical of them.  Yet it colors all of the information in the book to such a degree that the effect is to make both Richard and Isabel seem petty.  Indeed, the whole effect of the book to me is to belitte the efforts the Richard Burton because of the pettiness that both he and his wife seemed to revel in.	2001-04-23
US	50499876	RLY30814ZC12	0674479408	801476517	John Quincy Adams: A Public Life, a Private Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Brilliant Study of a Difficult Man	Concentrating more on the character of John Quincy Adams rather than his career, author Nagel does a brilliant job of bringing the 6th President of the United States to life. His relationship with his famous parents, John and Abigail Adams is fully explored and the reprecussions of his difficult relationship with his mother is felt thoroughout his life.<br />Accompanying his father to France as a youngster, John Quincy is viewed somewhat as a prodigy.  His other trips during this time when he was between 10-16 are remarkable.  He comes back to America and finishes his education and then begins to read for the law.  Learning to quickly despise the law, he becomes involved with politics.  All the while however, he is more interested in his scholarly pursuits.  After travelling to London as a diplomat, he meets his future wife, probably the only woman who could have lived with John Quincy and not lost her sanity.  John Quincy was subject to deep depressions which left him unable to function for months at a time.<br />The author also does an excellent job detailing the problems with his children.  The two older sons became alcoholics, probably because he subjected them to the same kind of stresses that his parents did.  He seems to have realized this at one point but was unable to make any significant changes.<br />I found this biography much more interesting than just a pure recitical of his political accomplishments and really felt that I got to know and begin to understand the complex character of a prodigy unable to live up to the high standards set by his parents.	2001-04-23
US	50499876	R3M1J5SCFVKJW3	094032265X	353716317	Madame de Pompadour (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Outstanding Biography	Author Mitford has does an excellent job detailing the life of Madame de Pompadour, the long time mistress of Louis XV, King of France.  Born into an upper class family (but not noble), Jeanne Poissons is adored by all.  She marries young and has a daughter but longs for the attention of the King.  Her home is close to his hunting lodge and she makes every attempt to come to his notice.  Once she does, a love affair ensues.  Most think that the relationship will not last because of her common origins, but Madame Pompadour proves them wrong.  She makes a comfortable home for Louis XV inside of Versailles and quickly becomes the love of his life.  Her influence on the court is profound as she introduces luminaries such as Voltaire to the King.  Her taste and style is well regarded and her behavior to the Queen is exemplarary.<br />The book is well illustrated and the writing is wonderful.  I would strongly recommend this book to anyone who loves French history.	2001-04-23
US	50499876	R2648YZZHPS7MA	0684863316	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Character Study of a Founding Father	Author Brookhiser's high regard for Hamilton is on display with this latest biographical effort.  Of all of the Founding Father's, Hamilton is one of the most interesting because of his background.  Born on the wrong side of the blanket in the West Indies, he comes to America in his early teens.  Already displaying a remarkable intellect, he quickly becomes immersed in the affairs of his adopted country.  Serving as an aide to Washington, he gets an insider's view of the American Revolution.  Much has been written of Washington's view on Hamilton (the son he never had) but it is curious that Hamilton doesn't seem to return the sentiment.  After the war, he returns to New York City and quickly becomes a successful attorney.  But his real genius lies with finance.  He realizes that the new country must have a stable financial system to ensure trade and prosperity.  Unlike Jefferson, Hamilton views manufacturing and finance as the cornerstones of the new country, not farming.  It is interesting to note how modern some of his ideas are.<br />But always in the background is the nagging thought that Hamilton was a bit of a snob.  Coming from an impoverished background, he quickly identified himself with the elite of the new country after he had made his fortune.  He never embraced the democratic principles of Jefferson and was always suggesting that the national government be stronger in the powers allocated it, versus states rights.<br />His last days and his infamous duel with Aaron Burr are not fully explained.  However, after reading other books on the subject, I think that the dueling death of Hamilton's oldest son, Philip, left Alexander Hamilton with something of a &quot;death wish&quot;.  The duel could have been so easily ignored and yet events seemed to march on to their inevitable conclusion.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone interesting in the lives and thoughts of Alexander Hamilton and the role he played in the founding of the United States.	2001-04-10
US	50499876	R3GLAUXMWJDOLA	0809016214	835567046	A Fatal Friendship: Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Interesting Historical Effort	Author Rogow presents a well crafted dual biography of Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr, trying to piece together the events that culiminated in the duel which left Hamilton dead and Burr an outcast.  More emphasis is laid on Hamilton and his life, with Aaron Burr becoming more of a cipher.  Burr seems to never have committed his thoughts to paper so his stand on various political issues isn't clear.  Hamilton on the other hand, wrote volumes about all facets of his political life.  The two came from a very different background yet both ended up as successful attorneys in New York City.  Hamilton never stopped trying to sabotage the political rise of Burr and the reasons never seemed very clear.  Many political figures of the time commented on questionable ethics and morals of Burr yet Hamilton himself was immersed in one of the first major political sex scandals.<br />Rogow tries to analyze both men and provide various ideas about what could have led to the duel.  It is interesting to note that Hamilton seemed to possess a &quot;death wish&quot; in the final years of his life, after his eldest son Philip had been killed in a duel.  This seems to be the only context in which the duel makes any sense.  Hamilton could not end his own life but dying a noble death and making Burr an outcast too boot was simply to enticing.<br />The book was very well done and I especially liked the fact that the author didn't seem predispose to agree or disagree with either man.  The men were shown with all their faults and yet their contributions to the founding of the country is richly demonstrated.	2001-04-10
US	50499876	R3V5WZ2R2WCSRP	0060194391	388626932	The Keys of Egypt: The Obsession to Decipher Egyptian Hieroglyphs	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Uncovering a Civilization	The wonderful story of the French savant Champollion, who in the early 1800's discovered the secrets of Egyptian hieroglyphics. Born in obscurity in Grenoble, France during the beginning of the Revolution, his genius was discovered early but never really nurtured, except by his older brother.  Indeed, had it not been for the brother, Champollion would probably never had the time to concentrate on his Egyptian studies.<br />The book wonderfully illustrates this story of a man obsessed with deciphering this new language and the level of genius required to open the secrets to the Egyptian civilization.  The authors present much additional information on other savants who were in competition with Champollion (most notably Thomas Young of England) and the political turmoil which forever kept Champollion busy.  Indeed, you get the feeling that is a stable government had been in place and Champollion had the time, he would have much sooner discovered the key to the language.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in language and history.  The authors write in an economic style and yet convey their story quite well.	2001-04-02
US	50499876	RPXJPCCZA9YQW	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantasy Doesn't Get Any Better!	The first book in the series was fantastic and I eagerly looked forward to the second in the series, A Clash of Kings.  I only hoped the same high standard would be applied in the second book and I was not disappointed.  Character development continued on a high level and the political intrigue that ran throughout the book kept you continually guessing what would happen next.<br />I had read most of the major fantasy series but this book and all the others in the series seemed destined to stand with other greats of the genre.<br />The author's style is very evocative with sights and smells of battle almost jumping from the page.  I would recommend this book highly to anyone, not just those familiar with the fantasy genre.	2001-03-27
US	50499876	R3GQM280S9WISI	0684868865	192819313	Boone's Lick	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautifully Written!	If I could possess any talent on earth, it would be to write as author McMurtry.  His previous Lonesome Dove series ranks as my all time favorite books and I looked forward to reading Boone's Lick based on my experience with his earlier works.  I was not disappointed.  While much shorter than his previous novels, it nevertheless contained a beautifully written story about love and family.  Set against the American West after the Civil War, it is the simple story of a woman taking her family westward to find her wayward husband.  The characters of Mary Margaret Cecil and her brother in law Seth were wonderfully drawn in the sparse but evocative prose of the author.<br />I read the other reviews posted and most seem to comment solely on the brevity of the book.  Size should not matter if the content is good, and once again I found McMurtry delivers a story better than anyone.  While the price is steep for such a short novel, the story is worth it.  I only hope that this is the beginning of a new series for the author.	2001-03-27
US	50499876	R1WDGZ5ZB0GGI3	0571199895	309653111	Sister Revolutions: French Lightning, American Light	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Explores Why a Revolution Succeeds	Author Dunn explores the French and American Revolutions of the late 18th century.  She does an excellent job of describing the differences between the two political systems, one based on concensus but with a loyal opposition (American) and one based on total unity (French).  The most interesting idea developed is that the French Revolution served as a harbinger of the Russian Revolution.  The will of the people would be served by an elite few who remained convinced of their leadership even when deserted by the people they served.  The French leaders are portrayed as idealist who tried to create an impossible system while the American leaders were politicians who knew that to create a workable system, some ideas had to be sacrificed.<br />I would strongly recommend this book to any reader with an interest in history.  Well written and well researched, the author ends the book with two chapters about the revolutions in Russia and Vietnam and how these revolutions borrowed ideas from the French and American revolutions.	2001-03-20
US	50499876	R30J5Q6J1LYCI3	0446525871	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Thriller!	Having read other books by the authors, I knew it would be good but I was surprised at how good!  A large cast of characters, an extremely interesting premise and expertly told, the story leaves you breathless. I turned each page in anticipation and was never disappointed.<br />A large meteorite is found in the southern tip of South America and one of the world's richest men decides he must claim this trophy for this museum.  An engineering firm is hired to retrieve the rock and the adventure starts.  All of the characters were very well drawn with my favorite being the head of the engineering company, Eli Glinn.<br />I can't recommend this book highly enough and eagerly await the sequel (there must be a sequel!).  In addition, I agree with other reviewers that a movie would be fantastic.	2001-03-12
US	50499876	R2YL65R4BKDST0	0804616566	718773463	First lady of the Revolution;: The life of Mercy Otis Warren,	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Biography	I first read about Mercy Otis Warren in a biography of John Adams.  The sister of James Otis, one of the first American patriots unfortunately silenced due to illness caused by a severe beating over politics, Mercy married James Warren and had six sons.  She was involved with the politics of her time and spent much time with John and Abigail Adams.  She also was a political writer and during the American Revolution penned many pamphlets crusading for the cause of freedom.  Her relationship with Adams was temporarily disrupted during the dispute over the Constitution and her epic history of the American Revolution further served to facilitate this break.<br />This story is particularly interesting because Mercy and her husband James were relatively minor characters during the war and the reader gets a well presented viewpoint of what it was like to gamble so much on the new government.  Neither Mercy nor James were personally rewarded for their efforts and yet their strength of character and perserverance helped shaped our country.  Mercy was able to function as a beloved mother and wife and yet maintain a role in the intellectual life of the new country.  I would strongly recommend this biography.  Yet I would also hope that someone current author would undertake the project of a new biography on this interesting woman and her times.	2001-03-07
US	50499876	RLUG7ATD7M5J4	0801861640	483145573	Brother to the Sun King: Philippe, Duke of Orleans	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent study of Philippe, Duke of Orleans	As only brother to the Sun King, Louis XIV of France, Philippe, Duke of Orleans lived forever in the shadow of his older brother.  Because of the numerous uprisings in France by a younger brother of the King, Philippe was taught from birth that he could never outshine his brother or be given any prominent place in his government.  Because of this, Philippe led a fairly &quot;wasted&quot; life, perhaps best known for his flagrant homosexuality.  Yet author Nancy Nichols Barker points out that when allowed to shine, the Duke was a competent soldier, lover of fine arts, good father and the founder of the Orleans dynasty which eventually ruled France.  While the progeny of Louis XIV died out with the revolution, the descendants of Philippe populated the great Catholic thrones of Europe.<br />The author does a good job with source material and especially the &quot;psychological&quot; background of her characters, such as Philippe and his two wives, Henriette of England and Elizabeth Charlotte of Palatine.  The first marriage was a disaster but the second marriage flourished for a long time.  Elizabeth Charlotte or Liselotte is given a major part of the biography and her background is presented in a very interesting manner.  I would recommend this book highly to anyone interested in French history.	2001-02-25
US	50499876	R2MO6NDEJGHYGA	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Simply the Best Fantasy Epic in Years	After reading the reviews, I picked up a copy of this book and began to read.  Four days later and many sleepless nights I have finished and stand in awe of the author.  Most epic fantasy series (for example Jordan) are so repetitive that while the story is interesting it takes forever to get to the point.  Not so with Martin.  From the very beginning you are in the action and the pacing is superb.  The writing is also exceptional for the fantasy genre.  It was a pleasure to read the descriptions of the places and people.  The characters are multi-dimensional and a fully realized &quot;otherworld&quot; is superbly created and populated.<br />I highly recommend this book to readers of the fantasy genre...Mr. Martin has taken this genre to new heights and readers will not be disappointed.  I can't wait to start the next book and only hope that the fourth book is soon published.	2001-02-21
US	50499876	R6803G3U7O34G	0060152176	504274345	Louis XIV: The Other Side of the Sun (English and French Edition)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Brilliant Biography of the Sun King	After visiting Versailles, I had searched in vain for a &quot;good&quot; biography on Louis XIV, King of France.  I saw this book in the public library and gave it a try, not expecting much after the several other newer biographies I had tried and yet had been so disappointed in.  Amazingly, this turned out to be a top notch biography of the man who dominated European culture for the last fifty years of the seventeenth century. The author clearly demonstrates a detailed understanding of the time period and spends most of his time on Louis, the man.  He develops the section on his childhood to foreshadow later events in his life, making it a clear that a lack of affection and security as a child had major reprecussions on the adult years of his life.  His marriage and his affairs are chronicled well as well as his spiritual life.  Most interesting is the author's knowledge of France during this time period and the horrible conditions that both the rich and the poor lived under.  Sanitation was clearly not a priority and the medical practices of the time leave you horrified.  The medical history of Louis XIV is presented in such a way that you believe that it would have been better never to have seen a &quot;doctor&quot;, let alone suffer under their care. I would recommend this biography highly.  Even if it is out of print, second hand copies are not difficult to find and the reader will be rewarded with an excellent study of a complicated man and his times.	2001-02-19
US	50499876	R2WK3OV7BQJBXQ	068483474X	271307471	Unwise Passions : A True Story of a Remarkable Woman and the First Great Scandal of 18th Century America	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Brief and Unsatisfying	The story of Nancy Randolph and the scandal which surrounded this young member of the famous Randolph family.  Set in the 1790's in Virginia, this book recounds the story of Nancy who bore a child (fathered either by her dead fiance or his married brother) who was either stillborn or murdered shortly after the birth.  Connected by birth or marriage to the great Virginia families, Nancy and her brother-in-law survived the inquest held to determine whether a crime was committed yet gossip surrounded them for the rest of their days. What should have been a fascinating study of a possible murder and family intrigue is poorly served by this author.  Very few conclusions are drawn and the reader is left with very few facts.  Chapters are only a few pages long and the type face is large and spaced very far apart.  Without illustrions and printed normally, the book would barely be more than one hundred pages.  This fascinating story was better served by Robert S. Bloom in the fictional account, &quot;A Generation of Leaves&quot;.  I would highly recommend this far superior account which also covers Nancy's subsequent marriage.	2001-02-19
US	50499876	R2B8VM9FW0MHQE	0345433785	646178453	Newton's Cannon (The Age of Unreason, Book 1)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Original Alternative History	What would happen if Sir Isaac Newton, one of the greatest scientific minds in human history, actually discovered the secrets of alchemy and magic?  What if other historical figures, such as a young Benjamin Franklin and Louis XIV, King of France, were affected by this discovery?  Author Keyes presents a fascinating story, obviously well researched, which demonstrates that humankind's inability to mature morally as fast as it does scientifically, leds for horrifying consequences. The story weaves around numerous historical and fictional characters and the pace is kept lively.  In particular, the author does a good job with the female characters, making them much more than simple cardboard cutouts.  The ending is particularly good and I immediately read the sequelA Calculus of Angels&quot; to find out what happens next.	2001-02-19
US	50499876	R2WPFMIXA7N5HA	0345406087	935307326	A Calculus of Angels (The Age of Unreason, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not as Good as First Book in the Series	Introducing several new characters (Cotton Mather, Blackbeard, Tsar Peter the Great), mankind is now reeling from the effects of the &quot;magical&quot; discoveries of Sir Isaac Newton.  Benjamin Franklin continues to be a central character and numerous other fictional characters are introduced. Hinted at in the first book of the series, the &quot;angels&quot; or other spirits/lifeforms play a bigger role yet I am still unsure of their purpose in the storyline.  While not as interesting as the first book, it was nevertheless an interesting diversion.  I will read the third book in the projected four part series.	2001-02-19
US	50499876	R32QOASBRVTKKK	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining but I Expected More	Given the author's background in economic history, I thought this book would be centered around the development of the stock market in 18th century London.  While this played a central role in the book, it was never really explained how the stock market developed or how it worked.  The central character is the younger son of a Jewish broker, who has made a name as a boxer.... The writing was extremely well done but the plot seemed to meander all over the place.  The novel didn't remain focused enough to keep my full attention.  I would read another novel by the author since the writing and the research was well done but hope that in the future he uses his background to give the reader some interesting background on the development of the modern economies.	2001-02-19
US	50499876	R2SCX2N0CGQQCN	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Compelling Study of a Founding Father	Of all the historical characters I have ever read about, Thomas Jefferson by far is the most complex.  His entire life seems to be a contradiction.  The writer of the Declaration of Independence, yet he owned slaves all his life, refusing to free them even in his will.  Opposed to any kind of centralized federal government, yet under his presidential administration, the US doubled in size with the Federal government purchase of the Louisiana territory.  Author Ellis does a superb job of noting these contradictions and many other weaknesses displayed by Jefferson throughout his career.  A Francophile, Jefferson was totally unable to predict the violence of the French Revolution, even though he was living in Paris during the time.  During the American Revolution, Jefferson wrote the Declaration and then disappeared to Monticello, then leaving men like Adams and Washington to put his ideas into action.  This particularly charactertizes the actions of Jefferson- his thoughts were so idealistic as to be incompatible with reality.  This is opposed to Adams, a thoroughly pragmatic man.  Time and again, author Ellis contrast Jefferson to Adams and in the majority of the instances, Jefferson loses.  Yet, the American public is still drawn to Jefferson while Adams does not seem to generate that kind of esteem.  Why?  Jefferson was an idealist, who talked about the moral goodness of man and thought the human race able to function with very little in the ways of laws, government oversite, etc.  These ideas were portayed by Jefferson in his writings which fed the higher nature in all of us.  Men like Adams were much more pragmatic- ideas are fine, but what can we make that will actually work in the real world?<br />This book does a wonderful job of trying to define the character of Jefferson and the title American Sphinx is more accurate.  I don't believe we can truly know Jefferson and perhaps that's what makes him one of the most interesting of the Founding Fathers.	2001-01-24
US	50499876	R2TP6R4NZ2LPCA	0385313489	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory, 1874-1932	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Great Biography of a Great Man	I truly believe that Winston Churchill should have been named Time magazine's Man of the Century.  No other person in the 20th century affected the lives of so many.  Author Manchester has attempted a three volume biography (volume 2 ends at the start of World War II and volume 3 has not yet been published), which succeeds magnificently.  The author brings Churchill alive, and like any great man, he is also flawed, and these are presented without apology.  Manchester's style of writing and organization is superb.  The story of Churchill's youth and young adulthood is thoroughly explored.  The author puts special emphasis on Churchill's childhood and the effects of his relationship with his parents which became obvious throughout his life.<br />I would recommend this book highly.	2001-01-24
US	50499876	R1VF5VFBRIX89	0385493282	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Outstanding Biography	When I first saw this book available for sale, I could not wait to read it.  Other founding fathers, such as Washington, Adams and Jefferson have had numerous biographies devoted to them and their role in the American Revolution.  Benjamin Franklin was long overdue for a new biography and H.W. Brands has supplied an excellent chapter on one of the most illustrious founding fathers.<br />The book demonstrates the rise of Franklin from a younger son in a large family in Boston to a well known and respected printer in Philadelphia.  Based on extreme hard work, frugality and ghe ability to impress power men, Franklin quickly becomes a force in the city.  The most interesting think about this point in his life is the agility of his mind.  Never content to simply wonder why, Franklin educates himself in such diverse areas as philosophy, science, mechnical engineering, etc.  The classic American dream of rags to riches is truly demonstrate via the life of Franklin.<br />Later in his life, Franklin spent many years in England as the colonial agent for Pennsylvania.  His fame as an amateur scientist through his experiments with electricity meant he was already well known in England.  Franklin himself loved England during this time in his life and the author points out that it took quite a bit of abuse from the English politicians to turn him away from pursuing reconciliation with the Mother Country.<br />Once he knew that America must achieve independence and at the age of 70 (!), Franklin returned to Philadelphia and began the exciting process of fighting for independence and setting up a new country.  Soon after, he went to France to persuade the French government to help the fledgling country.  Later still, he worked on the development of the U.S. Constitution.  In the history of man, it is difficult to find a man whose life encompasses such a wide range of achievement.<br />The author does a fine job of drawing upon Franklin's own words to illustrate his life.  The writing flows smoothly and covers most areas of his life in sufficient detail.  Only one small complaint- I wish more would have been discussed regarding his private life, especially his marrige.ng flows smoothly and covers most areas of his life in sufficient detail.  Only one small complaint- I wish more would have been discussed regarding his private life, especially his marrige.	2001-01-23
US	50499876	RXOKSNXZZRV1Q	0300086539	888673023	Portraits by Ingres: Image of an Epoch	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Favorite Painter!	Always my favorite painter, I was lucky enough to see an exposition of his work at the National Art Gallery in London in 1999 and his more famous works on constant display the Louvre in 2000.  While his historical and allegorical paintings are impressive, his talent with portraiture is unmatched.  I am particularly struck by the detailed imagery.  It feels like you are looking at a photography, the realism is so intense.  Yet as the book demonstrates, numerous studies were done before each painting, trying to determine how best to capture the subject.<br />The book is a large format, with numerous full color, full plate images.  Personally, I did not find the accompanying essays particularly interesting but thought that the notes on each specific work more compelling.  The choices of artwork included in the book is primarily restricted to portraits, but not only paintings but paper drawings and minatures also.	2001-01-23
US	50499876	R2EZHCTMIJS06J	006019197X	375391184	Pilgrim	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Never Really Seemed Finished	A very enigmatic tale of a man at the turn of the century who is committed to a mental asylum because of his desire to commit suicide.  Dr. Carl Jung is his doctor and his research into Mr. Pilgrim's past and his current life bring up ideas of past lives which still seem to haunt Pilgrim.<br />I thought the book was written in a very interesting style and I liked the character of Emma, Jung's wife and her relationship with her husband.  However, I did not feel that the end of the book tied up anything.  I still didn't understand the main message of the book.  I don't necessarily need a clear cut ending however I like to get a sense of what was trying to be conveyed throughout the story.	2001-01-15
US	50499876	R2JVEOVRFWM5CS	0345440773	552837090	The Redemption of Althalus	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not One Of His Best	I picked up this book thinking I was in for a treat.  An author I enjoyed and a compact novel, without having to read through an entire series to see how thing ended.  What a disappointment!  The character of the gods in the stories is really a disappointment.  They give humans the abilities to do all of these great things (time travel) but why do that? Why not just take care of things themselves?  The evil characters are so stupid as to be totally unbelievable.  The other characters are very one dimensional and very much sterotypes.  About midway through the book, I simply gave up.  I usually hate to do that after I had already invested so much time but I just did not see any benefit to finishing the book.	2001-01-15
US	50499876	R139Y6NKXK9SEY	0140275002	249467690	Angel in the Whirlwind: The Triumph of the American Revolution	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Dry Retelling of the American Revolution	I found the book to be an excellent resource for straight facts but the writing style failed to hold my interest.  Not enough time was spent on giving background of the major players in the revolution and some of the conclusions were suspect.<br />I would recommend the book for a cursory overview of the American Revolution but believe that the books by John Ferling and Joseph Ellis are much more interesting.	2001-01-07
US	50499876	R79N8PXZUVW97	1853260517	554191539	Three Men in a Boat	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Funniest Book Ever Written	Like other reviewers, I first heard of this book after reading the wonderful novel by Connie Willis, To Say Nothing of the Dog.  That wonderful book inspired me to read Three Men in a Boat.  A simple story set in Victorian England of three young men taking a boat ride down the Thames, and yet I laughed so hard and so often that I actually had to stop reading to catch my breathe.  The writing is wonderful, with characters that everybody can identify with.  The story of uncle Podger hanging the picture is priceless.<br />I can't believe that this book was written over one hundred years ago.  The story is timeless.  But the humor is such that few readers will be able to come away without loving this book.  Already, I am trying to get hold of the author's other books.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Whatever you do, READ THIS BOOK!  If not, you are truly missing one of life's greatest pleasures!	2001-01-07
US	50499876	R35480UW0BZHYY	0375404031	295818442	The Endurance: Shackleton's Legendary Antarctic Expedition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Incredible Voyage	A story of a journey to the South Pole in 1914 which never came close to the stated ojective (to traverse the continent on foot) yet lives in history because of the hardships endured by the crew of a two and a half year period.  Author Alexander uses the diarities of the various crew members to illustrate their thoughts and feelings.  Most impressive are the photographs taken by the expedition photographer, Hurley.  All in black and white, their clarity and composition are remarkable.  They deserve to be recognized at the same level as Ansel Adams photographs of the American National Parks.<br />The leader of the expedition, Ernest Shackleton is portrayed as a remarkable leader, aware of just how much he can push his men without being cruel or unfair.  His leadership style can serve as a lesson to all who try to manage people under difficult circumstances.<br />I would recommend this book for the crisp pace but above all, the beautiful photographs.	2001-01-07
US	50499876	R3DHDS3YFEUREZ	0525241817	200763189	Lafayette: Hero of Two Worlds	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Hero of Both Worlds	An interesting biography of Lafayette, the young French nobleman who served with Washington during the American Revolution and then went back to France to help usher in the French Revolution.  A long life spent extolling the virtues of liberty, Lafayette is portrayed in the book as a generous man who seeked fame only.  When presented with a chance to actually take action and change the course of history, he would retreat and allow others to make the decisive actions of the time.<br />The author is not particularly kind to the Lafayette and does not hestiate to point out his flaws.  However, the writing is well done.  The only major problem I have with the book regards referring to many major historical characters without giving us some background before they are introduced.  For example, many of the leaders of the French Revolution are referred to without any explanation of their politics.  The author assumed a fairly wide understanding of the various personalities.  I would have preferred a little more exposition.	2001-01-02
US	50499876	R2W6FSM8FJ0ZJN	0385333633	960444184	The Heir Hunter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Premise But...	Nicholas Merchant is a sort of private detective, who finds the relatives of wealthy individuals who leave no immediate relatives and no will.  One case in particular, involving an old man with a multi-million dollar estate leads to government cover-ups and Nazi millions in secret Swiss Accounts.  While the story seemed rather derivative (Nazi hidden treasure), I also had a difficult time keeping all the villians straigh.  And quite frankly, the secret that was being protected just didn't seem that big.  I would read a sequel because the writing was good and the premise sound but hopefully the plot would improve on another outing.	2000-12-31
US	50499876	R20D7SD3XUWPF9	0674004108	982015570	The Adams Women: Abigail and Louisa Adams, Their Sisters and Daughters	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Fascinating Study	Author Nagel has done a wonderful job of bringing the lives of the Adams women to life.  The first part of the book concentrates on Abigail Smith, wife of John Adams and her sisters.  Their letters describing their daily lives are fascinating.  The various daughters of these women are also highlighted.  The only daughter of John and Abigail, Abigail (nickednamed Nabby) is a particularly heartbreaking story.  Pushed by her mother to marry a &quot;promising&quot; young man, she becomes the abandoned wife of a cruel alcoholic, living in near poverty.  Unable to break away because of the strict moral codes of the time, she succombs to cancer, dying in her father's arms.  Almost all of the women of the family were tortured by the alcoholism of either their husbands or sons.  Louisa Johnson, the wife of John Quincy Adams is also highlighted.  Her unhappy marriage to a difficult man is portrayed sympathetically.<br />Even though thiese women lived almost 200 years ago, their stories are timeless.  Unable to contol their own destinies, these women nevertheless contributed greatly to their families and communities.	2000-12-31
US	50499876	RUBQEEHGTBIH3	0393311333	972450072	Passionate Sage: The Character and Legacy of John Adams	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Outstanding Character Study	Of all the Founding Fathers, Adams is perhaps the least respected.  Washington and Jefferson are safely memorialized on Mount Rushmore and Franklin is regarded by all as the quintessential American.  Yet even a cursory reading of a history of the founding of America shows time and again of the importance of Adams.  Very early in the debates regarding the future of the colonies, Adams knew reconciliation would be impossible.  He worked on over 30 committees of the Continental Congress, was a foreign minister to France and then later served as our second president.  Yet popular history has not served him well, something Adams was quite aware of even in his own lifetime.<br />Author Ellis does an admirable job of portaying Adams as probably the most human of the Founding Fathers.  Unable to control his temper or hide his true feelings, Adams always seemed to do the right thing yet in such a way that he received no credit for his actions.  Ellis points out how Adams seemed to divine the future better than his contemporaries but his personality was such that few could admit he was right.<br />The book is not a biography but a thought provoking character study.  The only quibble I have with the book is that the relationship between Adams and his nemesis, Alexander Hamilton is never fully developed.  Adams only truly despised one person and even after the death of Hamilton was unable to write about him in any kind of conciliatory manner.  I wished this relationship would have been explored further.  Otherwise, I gained a great deal of respect for Adams and even began to like him.  It is easy to identify with Adams, a work horse who said what he thought, no matter how unpopular.  Studies like this will hopefully resurrect his reputation and restore him to his proper place in the history of the United States.	2000-12-31
US	50499876	R2XQ61HNL26QFY	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Original, Funny and Delightful	What a wonderful book!  An intricate story of time travel, Ned Henry goes back to Victorian England to help prevent a possible &quot;incongruity&quot; when fellow time traveller Verity Kindle rescues a cat from certain (?) drowning.  Dozens of characters, multiple story lines and an extremely well thought out plot highlight the book.  The humor is laugh out loud funny and the writing is crisp.  I recommend this book highly.  It would definitely be on my &quot;ten best&quot; list.	2000-12-31
US	50499876	R1GLO669T52G88	0345405404	144974062	Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Grandmother of Medieval Europe	The author Weir does an admirable job fleshing out the few established facts known about Eleanor of Aqutaine.  A great heiress in her own right, she first married King Louis VII of France, later divorcing him to marry the much younger King Henry II of England.  Bearing nine children, she sided with her adult sons against her husband Henry and the most interesting part of the book concerns the incessant plottings of her sons against their father. What is most remarkable is that very little contemporary evidence exist regarding Eleanor but the author takes what is available and weaves it into an interesting story.  The writing is clear and concise with much information given on all the major historical characters of the time.  In addition, the author does a fine job of debunking most of the myths regarding Eleanor (her conduct on the Crusades, her involvement in the death of Rosamund, lover of Henry II)and instead concentrates on explaining the political and clerical revolts of the time.	2000-12-18
US	50499876	R3JSQ2HCOH29X2	1567310141	763666725	Caesar and Christ: A History of Roman Civilization and of Christianity from Their Beginnings to A.D. 325 (Story of Civilization)	Books	5	38	43	N	N	Fascinating and Detailed	What a wonderful book!  The history of the Roman empire has always fascinated me but I never found a good overview that was detailed enough without being boring.  Finally, I found the Will Durant series and began working my way through the volumes.  This has been one of the best.<br />It is amazing the level of detail that the author is able to incorporate into the book.  You not only get a sense of the historical events but also what it was actually like to live during this time period.  Literature and art are covered in detailed.  The background on the founding of the Christian church was the most comprehensive and interesting that I have ever read.<br />I strongly recommend this book for anyone wanting to understand the early beginnings of the Christian church within the context of the time.  I look forward to reading the future volumes.	2000-12-06
US	50499876	R3NQM5E7G0DR4U	0393047164	423928723	The Abyssinian : A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Kept My Interest Throughout!!	A wonderful book drawing on a little known fact regarding Abyssinia and it's relationship without the outside world (particularly France).  The main characters of Poncet, Juremi and the Negus (King of Abyssinia) were exceptionally well drawn.  The plot moved at a great pace, never getting weighed down with too many details yet not skipping over main points. I was surprised that it was originally written in French because the translation seemed flawless, as I had no problems whatsoever in understanding the text.  Even subtle nuances seemed to be present in the story.<br />I would definitely recommend this book for other fellow historical fiction lovers and liken its style to Gary Jenning's Aztec.	2000-12-05
US	50499876	RP3MASXBI6NI7	0425173585	782673302	Giotto's Hand (Art History Mysteries)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good read on a cool winter's day	This is the first book in the Art Mysteries series that I have read.  I enjoyed the characters of Jonathan Argyll and his fiancee Flavia and found the English countryside setting to be a good setting for this mystery.  The various characters in the book were interesting and well drawn but the main characters were only very quickly fleshed out (perhaps the series should be read in order to understand the main characters better).<br />It took no more than 4-5 hours to read and the ending was good and not entirely forseeable.<br />While other mysteries have stayed with me longer, I did enjoy the time spent reading this book.	2000-12-05
US	50499876	R28LS38NU7VEW2	0374199388	97405856	Marie Antoinette: The Last Queen Of France	Books	4	32	35	N	N	Harrowing look at the life of Marie Antoinette	A very good biography of Marie Antoinette, which mixes both the politics of the time along with the many mistakes made by Marie Antoinette.  It is fascinating to read about a woman who when presented with two choices, almost always made the wrong one.<br />The last few chapters of the book, about the time period after the King and Queen are imprisoned by the revolutionaries is presented in a very harrowing manner.  It is hard to imagine living through what Marie did in the final years of her life.  The constant turmoil and apprehension and the pure misery that must have accompanied her final days is well documented and excellently written.<br />I would highly recommend this biography.	2000-11-27
US	50499876	R2A6FD13727TCS	0451450957	529934329	Blue Moon Rising (Hawk & Fisher)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable and fun!	I picked up this book after reading the other reviews and found an interesting and funny take on the fantasy genre.  I have read a lot of fantasy and usually find them following the same formulas.  The best thing about this book is that it takes the typical fantasy elements (i.e. dragon, unicorn, gobblins, etc.) and gives them a totally new look.  I also enjoyed the humor in the novel, which was very refreshing.<br />The main characters of Rupert and Julia was very well drawn and I especially enjoyed the other characters such as Sir Champion and Prince Harald.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who wants a different type of fantasy novel, with just as much excitement as others yet doesn't follow the same traditional storylines.	2000-11-25
US	50499876	RNVYOVE37H3LI	0312969287	708800249	Skeptic	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Science was interesting but...	I decided to read this book because of the intriguing idea of explaining a scientific viewpoint of ghosts.  While I found the sections of the book that dealt with this aspect very interesting, I was dismayed with the cardboard characters.  Why do all main characters have to be incredibly good looking, young, extremely intelligent, etc.?  Especially the character of Amber, the CIA agent?  Tall, beautiful, smart, fearless, you name it.  Just once it would be interesting to have an action novel where the characters were a little more &quot;normal&quot;.<br />Otherwise, the book was paced well but I agree with the other reviewers that the ending left much to be desired.	2000-11-20
US	50499876	R2VF61OE06O358	0553579606	14890872	Ashes to Ashes: A Novel (Sam Kovac and Nikki Liska)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nothing Out of the Ordinary	Deciding to take a break with some &quot;escapist&quot; fiction, I decided to read Ashes to Ashes based on my previous experience with the author's books.  The story of a serial murderer and the hunt for the killer was  interesting but written like hundreds of others.  The main characters, Kate  Conlan a victims advocate and John Quinn, an FBI profiler, were somewhat  poorly fleshed out.  I kept thinking that maybe they were featured in a  previous book and this book was the second in a series.  Other supporting  characters, such as the various police detectives assigned to the case were  more interesting.  Overall, a quick read with a surprise ending (I must  admit I had no idea who the killer was until the very end).	2000-06-30
US	50499876	RQ43YY2YX6XGT	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Fascinating Subject	Dava Sobel has written a beautiful book about a subject that in a lesser author's hands could have been exceedingly boring.  The need for a clock which would accurately keep time while on a sea voyage in order to help  mariners determine their longitude and thus accurately determine where they  would land doesn't seem like it would be that exciting.  However, Sobel has  given a wonderful account of the problems that were encountered without  this device and how John Harrison, a clock maker, was determine to solve  this problem with an accurate time piece that could be used even on ships.<br />The tremendous difficulties that Harrison had in convincing the British  government authorities that he had indeed solved the problem are  interesting and yet his endurance in solving this problem is almost heroic.  Apparently, red tape and professional jealously are timeless qualities of  human nature.  This slim book provides an interesting glance into a subject  which probably few have ever thought about.  I would recommend this book  highly to anyone who likes to know the story behind scientific discoveries  which now seem almost quaint	2000-06-27
US	50499876	R1301YDHC6H85D	0394499735	933385853	The Years of Lyndon Johnson: The Path to Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Best Political Biography	I wasn't particularly interested in Lyndon Johnson when I started reading this book but thought it might be an interesting diversion.  How surprised I was to find that I was riveted.  Caro's writing is flawless and truly  gives an exceptional portrait of Lyndon Johnson as a man consumed by the  need to achieve greatness, no matter how.  Yet Lyndon Johnson is portrayed  as pursuing power for the sake of power, destroying anybody who gets in his  way.  The naked ruthlessness he displayed to get his way, in everything  from his political to his private life is almost frightening.  How such a  flawed man could have achieved the presidency is truly a mystery.  As soon  as I finished reading this volume, I devoured the second and am eagerly  awaiting the third.	2000-06-19
US	50499876	R3BSTIZXRMQAK6	0140094601	916276485	Eleanor Roosevelt, Vol. 1: 1884-1933	Books	4	48	51	N	N	Explores New Ground on a Famous Woman	Most books that I have read on Eleanor Roosevelt stress that no matter how revolutionary she might have seemed, she lived her life within certain bounds for her time.  Yet this book demonstrates that the historical  character and the real woman are very different. The author portrays  Eleanor as a woman who did not find herself until her mid-thirties and then  was determined to live as she wanted.  Her marriage to Franklin was not  fulfilling and she needed more.  She found this with various life long  friends who shared her passion for politics and social change.  The author  does an excellent job staying on track, and keeping Eleanor in the  forefront.  This is definitely not a biography of Franklin!  I found the  information on the early life of Eleanor to be especially interesting, in  how so many of the obstacles that she faced as a youth played a large role  in how she dealt with others the rest of her life.  Her childhood is  hearbreaking and I can't help but think that even for all her wealth and  priviledge, how sad her childhood was.  She seemed to search all her life  to find a home and finally decided to create her own with her friends, not  her family.  Even though she had five children, their lives were controlled  by her mother-in-law, Sara Delano Roosevelt.  Rather than become depressed  at the various obstacles presented by her life, she rose above them and  ultimately became a very fulfilled and happy person.	2000-06-19
US	50499876	R16C120QF2QGXB	0425170411	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hero or Villian?	As a teenager, I admired Charles Lindbergh for his heroic accomplishments, knowing only of his solo voyage across the Atlantic.  When I read this biography, I was surprised to find that the man I had thought so heroic was  instead deeply flawed.  His association with the Nazi party during the  thirties and his work with the America First party is hard to believe.  Perhaps in retrospect it is always easy to identify evil.  Many  accomplished people during the thirties were taken in by Hitler.  Even  more revealing is the story of his marriage.  Again, I had always thought  of his relationship with Anne Morrow as a fairy tale, a joining of two  soulmates.  Yet the misery that Anne experienced during her marriage was  heartbreaking.  She was able in her later years to live as she pleased but  gave up so much to try to win the affection of a man totally incapable of  showing his feelings. The author did an excellent job of detailing  Lindbergh's  life in a vivid and interesting manner.  I found his writing  style flowed easily and he never tried to gloss over the unpleasant periods  in Lindbergh's life but instead explained them in the context of the time  and the background of Lindbergh.	2000-06-19
US	50499876	R2F3KW8OL32LF6	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Summer Read	Fabulous old masters looted by the Nazis during World War II start to surface after 50 years, followed by a series of murders.  Smack in the middle of this is Ben Rever, part time &quot;art cop&quot;.  Through a  number of twist and turns leading Revere from his home in Boston to Vienna,  Budapest and St. Petersburg, the story unfolds fast.<br />Write Elkins does a  skillful job of creating memorable and believable characters.  His  descriptions of the European cities and their various inhabitants are  especially appealing.  In fact, some of his character descriptions had me  laughing aloud.<br />While not a great work of literature, it kept my interest  all the way through.  I will definitely seek out more books by Elkins.	2000-06-17
US	50499876	R3NSITTZGJP4TM	0380810646	695572073	Lord of Sunset	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Confusing and Stilted	I really wanted to enjoy this book because of the subject matter.  This critical time period in British history offers many memorable characters.  I did enjoy the story being told through the eyes of the different  characters but at times I was very confused about exactly who was related  to who and how they were related.  A genealogical table would have been  very helpful.  The writing seemed stilted and the relationship between  Harold and Edith didn't seem fleshed out enough.  Why exactly did he love  her?  I found the characters of King Edward and his queen Eada must more  interesting.  Overall, I enjoyed the book but felt more exposition on the  characters would have improved the flow of the story.	2000-06-15
US	50499876	R2RIP02ZX0F3VO	1567310133	834867328	The Life of Greece (The Story of Civilization, Vol. 2)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Beautifully Done!	As an avid history buff I have heard all my life about the series of books by Will Durant.  I started reading them only recently and I can't believe what I have been missing.<br />Durant writes beautifully and even though some  of these books were authored over 50 years ago they still hold up.  He  doesn't just cover the political activity of the time but includes much on  the way that people lived, loved and died.  His sections on the development  of art are extremely interesting.<br />After reading this book, I had a much  greater understanding of the Athenian culture and especially the idea of  democracy and how it developed.  His sections on the great philosophers of  the time have led me to read several others books about this topic and to  me that is the sign of a great book...when it makes you interested to read  even more.  I would have never attempted Plato's Republic without reading  this book.	2000-06-15
US	50499876	RZVP7V02ZVWQB	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Great American Novel	Quite simply, this is the best book ever written.  I read this book originally 3 years ago and have re-read it at least once a year since then.  I laughed aloud at the musings of Gus and cried as many of the characters  faced difficult circumstances.  The story is deceptively simple: a crew of  cowboys led by two ex-Texas Rangers lead a cattle herd from Texas to  Montana.  Other sub-plots abound, all of which could stand alone as a  single book.  Yet everything is combined in such as way as to present a  coherent story of human struggle and triumph.<br />I work for a Japanese  company and one Japanese expatriate asked me to recommend a book I felt  represented &quot;America&quot;.  I suggested this novel.  He was  mesmerized and said that after reading this book, he felt that he  understood the history of this country and the character of the people.<br />The development of the characters is unparalled in literature.  Gus and  Call, the two ex-Rangers are brought to life so vividly that you actually  feel that you have spoken with them.  Gus especially is wonderful.  If I  had to pick my favorite character in all of literature, it would be  him.<br />The sequels and prequels are also equally good.  I keep hoping that  the author will write another as these characters deserve to be kept  alive.<br />If you have not yet read this book, I envy you because of the  experience that you will get by reading it for the first time.	2000-06-15
US	50499876	R3DFNDGYVG5UBH	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant and Unsettling!	A short novel without very much in the way of plot yet it stays with the reader for a long time.  After reading the book, I kept going back to the characters and the situations they encountered.  The use of the English  language was absolutely brilliant and in my mind's eye, I could  &quot;see&quot; the story as it unfolded.  Yet, the novel was unsettling  because of the barreness of the life depicted.  Could such a life be  considered full and productive or was Stevens merely deluding himself and  unable to face the emptiness of his life and more exact, the pointlessness?  Many of us devote our life to a profession which after all is said and  done, means very little in the scheme of life. The book does not offer any  solution except to say that we still have &quot;the remains of the  day&quot; to live, however that may be.	2000-06-05
US	50499876	RY3B7JN3RCAPY	0812551389	705935030	The Skystone (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	It Came Close to Being Very Good!	Like other reviewers, I too picked up this book thinking it would be a different slant on the Arthur legend and it certainly delivered from this standpoint.  However, I must agree that the characters were two  dimensional, at best.  The sex and violence of the book did not bother me  as sex and violence are part of the human experience but the portrayl of  women as simply &quot;cheerleaders&quot; for their men was a bit too  simplistic.  I did find the information regarding the collapse of the Roman  empire fascinating and wonder about how people at this time must have felt  with their society starting to crumble around them.  Overall, I enjoyed the  book and hope that in the sequels the characters are fleshed out a little  more.	2000-06-05
US	50499876	R3PWNN3OCNIFL4	014024364X	933995871	A People's Tragedy: The Russian Revolution: 1891-1924	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Detailed Look at What Makes a Revolution	The author does a splendid job of giving the reader a detailed look at the different political parties which existed during the twilight of the tsar's rule.  What sets this book apart from most other history's of this time  period, is the author's explanation as to why the Russian revolution was  different from others (i.e. French or American).  Detailed statistics on  land ownership and other factors help the reader understand why Russia  turned towards such a harsh and unforgiving political system.  The only  problem with the book is that it is assumed that the reader has some  detailed knowledge of the time period and the various historical  characters.  Otherwise, it is an excellent detailed view of the period.	2000-05-31
US	50499876	R2L6SDHND066R8	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Different Slant on Oz	Author Maguire has come up with a delicious plot twist...since we only see Dorothy's side of the story in the Wizard of Oz, how accurate of a portryal is that?  The author manages to create a complex woman (the Wicked Witch)  who turns out to be more revolutionary than witch.  The twist and turns of  the plot are fascinating and the writing is crisp and paced well.  The cast  of supporting characters is well done.  The ending of the book seemed a bit  hurried but overall an excellent job of &quot;spinning&quot;.	2000-05-26
