US	50493251	R20S0G2RJZ7E6E	0091794633	811190455	The Sense Of Being Stared At	Books	1	32	89	N	N	The Sense of Being Snookered	I bought this book thinking it was going to be about consciousness and how our brains interpret our experiences--why our \\"mind\\" does seem to be more than just our brain. Was I disappointed to get a few pages in and realize it's spiritualist mumbo-jumbo about on a par with The Amazing Kreskin and Uri Geller! Nevertheless, I continued reading, thinking it could still be interesting. It wasn't. People's subjective experiences don't add up to facts, Mr. Sheldrake. And obviously you don't cut apart a brain and expect to see a miniature photo of an image inside, because our brains are neural tissue, not film. Anybody with even a cursory education and the ability to think critically will not buy what Mr. Sheldrake is saying. I think it is most telling that he never even addresses the obvious question: If the mind is not a product of the brain, then why is personality changed or destroyed when the brain is damaged?  To sum up: if you're into Edgar Cayce, Sun Signs, UFO's, chakras, etc., you'll probably love this book. If, however, you care to analyze your world rather than swallow whole what children, primitive societies, and credulous religious believers consider to be the truth, you will not want to waste your money. Go spend it on something by Carl Sagan or Michael Shermer to enhance your education rather than trashing it!	2005-08-01
US	50493251	R3RBNJ8FSV6I5N	006054094X	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	1	29	43	N	N	How Do You Say "Schlock" in Chinese?	Remember *Chariots of the Gods?* Well, this is Book Two in the series. The author's hypothesis is that in the 15th century the Chinese sailed all over the world, transplanting features of their culture everywhere they went. Then they went xenophobic, cut off all contact with the outside world, and destroyed all evidence that they'd ever set foot (or sail, as the case may be) out of Asia. Convenient, isn't it?  <br /> <br />The first \\"proof\\" of this is based in a mind-numbing and ridiculous examination of old maps, navigation, and cartography. If the author really was a sea captain, I sure wouldn't want to be on his ship! It was enough for me to read that \\"con ymana\\" is supposed to be medieval Portuguese for \\"a volcano erupted there.\\" Now I'm not an expert in medieval Portuguese, but I do speak modern Portuguese, and this phrase is translated \\"l entrou em erupo um volco.\\" I know languages change, but that much in 500 years?  <br /> <br />Then there are the supposed parallels between Chinese and New World cultures, which are less than impressive. If you look hard enough, you can draw parallels between any two cultures. For instance, does the fact that the word for \\"earth\\" is \\"eretz\\" in Hebrew mean that the Hebrews colonized England? Or that both the Egyptians and the Incas made mummies mean the Incas hopped the next available spaceship to the Middle East?  <br /> <br />As well, when cultures intersect, there is ample documentation. People are always fascinated by the otherness of different civilizations, and they write, draw, and tell of them in detail. And when ideas are exchanged, the process can be traced via the archaeological, mythological, and sociological evidence. If somebody as different as the Chinese were in the New World only 500 years ago, there would be tons of evidence. A few scanty straws doesn't cut it.  <br /> <br />I can't imagine that even the author believes what he's written. I keep expecting him to pop up on Oprah or David Letterman confessing to the world that the whole thing was a snow job. I have to give him this: As a yarn, it's a five-starrer. But if you think it's in any way related to real history, give yourself zero stars for not thinking critically. Then get out there and read some real history so you won't have the wool pulled over your eyes next time. :)	2005-07-03
US	50493251	RGXEZ7K8XON2I	0771085087	419137508	Farewell to God: My Reasons for Rejecting the Christian Faith	Books	4	21	29	N	N	From All Vantage Points, I Agree!	I found this book extremely interesting, though knowing that people evolve all their lives, I would like to suggest that readers take it as a view of where Mr. Templeton is at this moment and not as the final word on his or their own spiritual life.    One of the tasks of a thinking person's life is to deconstruct the views they were raised with and then reconstruct their own personal beliefs. And I have been where Mr. Templeton is and beyond. I stopped believing in the Bible and the Church, but there is life after that, and eventually I have come to a place where I feel that the Bible was never even intended to be taken as the literal word of God but as a compilation of metaphor, legend, and myth that is still, however, of value to those who wish to continue growing and learning. It might be thought of as various versions of scripts for a miniseries: some ideas don't mesh, there are differences between the writers' visions for the stories, and some episodes never make it into production--but what remains can still make food for thought.    As I grow older, I am less inclined to believe there is a literal anything in religion. But that doesn't negate its power to give people signposts on the way to leading a good and fulfilling life, and to bring people together into supportive, caring communities to reinforce the best in each other and be there during the worst to encourage and hearten each other. And this is why I think this book is a good read for Christians. If you never get beyond your Sunday-school-level beliefs, you will find it hard to mature in your faith. This is a good deconstruction manual, but it doesn't shut the door on reconstruction. Neither do apologetics enable you to reconstruct: they're founded on literalism too. For the Christian, I might recommend books by intellectual and mature Christians such as Harry Emerson Fosdick that will help you on the journey to a balanced, satisfying faith. A nonbeliever might want to follow up with Robert Buckman's*Can We Be Good Without God?*. But realize that eventually it's down to you, and after thinking for yourself, you will come down where you ought to be. As the Shaker hymn says, \\"By turning, turning, we come out right.\\"	2005-07-03
US	50493251	RV06LQUY4EKES	0312283229	977747247	Hair Story: Untangling the Roots of Black Hair in America	Books	5	147	161	N	N	Who Knew?	I'm not black, but I am a hair junkie--wanted to go to beauty school but was forced by my parents to attend college (WRONG CHOICE!). So I probably knew more than the average marshmallow about black hair, but this book was really enlightening! By the time it got to the text of the \\"My hair, your man\\" ad--which left me completely perplexed and clueless up to now--I felt like that ad was a personal slap in the face. It took me that long to realize what a personal issue hair is for black women. Don't get me wrong, most white women hate their hair too, but it's not such a hot-button topic. <br /> <br />But just if anyone's curious, having white hair does not equate to having good hair. We need industrial-strength shampoo to get out the natural and very nasty grease our scalps pump out like OPEC nations, then conditioner because we f**k our hair up with dyes, perms, dryers, curling irons, etc., then about five tons of gel, mousse, styling glue, hairspray, and spritzes because it won't hold a set more than three minutes without them. And water, humidity, and wind are The Enemy for us too. In fact, if I had the right kind of hair, I'd love to just lock it and forget it. But mine's so slippery it won't even stay in a ponytail. <br /> <br />It would be so nice if hair could be not a separator but a unifier for women everywhere. Maybe in about five centuries...	2005-07-01
US	50493251	R25YNFN4HRMG2L	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	12	16	N	N	My Will Be Done	I was horrified by this book. The premise--that if you just repeat this prayer often enough, God will give you exactly what you want--is so not Christian. It's on a par with amulets, charms, and spells, which the New Testament strongly condemns. The idea that you can manipulate God by uttering the magic words is superstitious and selfish, not to mention the complete antithesis of everything Jesus taught. Remember, \\"thy will be done\\"? \\"Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will\\"? And what about that famous Evangelical phrase, \\"Let go and let God\\"? The prayer of Jabez is a step backward, not forward!	2005-06-29
US	50493251	R3H72SG7YI3GPT	0743238249	255507131	Two Nations: Black and White, Separate, Hostile, Unequal	Books	3	49	66	N	N	What If the Shoe Fits?	First, I would say that this book is refreshingly dispassionate and un-overheated, both qualities that have been sorely lacking in recent discussions of race. Also, there is plenty of truth in it--some explicitly stated, some not quite so obvious. But truth is a two-edged sword, and Mr. Hacker doesn't come clean about all of it. I think he truly believed he was presenting an objective discussion, and he actually came pretty close, but for a few caveats.  The book does a good job of showing the daily trials black people face, and includes a clever exercise that can jolt you into awareness of just how much you do value your white skin. It also talks straight about how much racism runs deep underground or happens behind the façade of political correctness, and about both sides of the slavery issue. But it runs into trouble in a few ways. First, the author theorizes that other minorities such as Asians and Jews, become \\"honorary whites\\" by virtue of their achievements. He thinks the dichotomy is white/nonwhite, but I think it's just the opposite: black/nonblack. Nobody thinks Asians or Arabs are white, but because they're not black, they get more openings and more respect than black people do.  Then there is the statistical data. In every chapter, Hacker gives plenty of it, but then explains or excuses away what the numbers say. And some of his arguments are pretty specious. He says that blacks do less well in school because the oppressive presence of whites makes them feel so hopeless they just give up before they start. Well, that's on a par with my saying that I never did well in math because the fact that there were Asian kids in my class made me feel so insecure I didn't even try. If I'd tried that excuse at home, my parents would've laughed in my face and then told me to quit blaming everybody else, get off my hind end, and either hit the books or go to my teacher for extra help. Hacker never connects the dots, but the data say that blacks have sex earlier and less responsibly; do poorly in school and are more likely to drop out; and commit a disproportionate amount of crime, usually on each other.  Hacker offers the usual explanation for all this: It's white people's fault. I'm willing to grant that it's probably not a lot of fun to be black, and that blacks have suffered some unbelievable injustices that still sting and probably leave a psychological residue. But Hacker leaves unsaid the problem that blacks keep digging their own graves in a lot of ways. He seems to think white guilt is some kind of solution to the problem; but what would feelings of guilt really accomplish without action? And I mean action on the part of both whites and blacks. Nobody's saying pretend all those terrible things never happened--but nobody's holding a gun to anyone's head telling them to start having babies in their teens, drop out of school, start dealing drugs, and commit crimes on their fellow citizens either. At some point you have to take some personal responsibility.  How to achieve a real solution? I don't know. I felt unsettled after reading the book, like only half the story had been told. I understand that the author is a journalist and that presenting current reality is his job, and he does it very well. I hope he will write a follow-up where he explores possible solutions, because an intelligent, even-handed, level-headed discussion could only benefit everyone.	2005-06-22
US	50493251	R2ORDB4R7CZ2H3	0761529241	83762458	Triumph: The Power and the Glory of the Catholic Church: A 2,000-Year History	Books	3	12	36	N	N	The Party Line	There are two ways you could read this book. Way #1 is as a factual, truthful history of the Catholic Church. Way #2 is as an accounting of what the Church believes and promulgates as its own history. Being that the book is endorsed by Sean Hannity and Pat Buchanan, I'm guessing the author would prefer Way #1, but you, the discriminating reader, are better advised to go with Way #2. Essentially it's a strictly orthodox recounting of the evolution of Church doctrine. That can be an interesting read, as long as you balance it out with more objective and less agenda-bound books on the same subject. This one is definitely not written from a neutral perspective, so you need to keep that in mind. But it will show you the view from Rightist Rome. <br /> <br />With that in mind, it's hard to give it a rating. The writing isn't bad, and if you allow for the bias, it's fairly cogent too. But it does tend to overreact and blitz everything that's not strictly orthodox or that has any hint of change in it, which is unfortunate because it makes the writer look reactionary. So three stars kind of sums it up. Not bad, but not good, either.	2005-06-22
US	50493251	R45PH0IMNZW2K	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well Done!	I did not read Girl with a Pearl Earring, so I can't comment on whether this book is better than that one or not, but I really liked The Virgin Blue. The portrayal of both women's (Isabelle and Ella) surroundings and lives read realistically, and the gradual buildup of the links between them worked just fine, sweeping me along until at the end I suddenly realized there were even several connections I hadn't thought of till then. Like another reviewer, I felt that Etienne Tournier was kind of sketchy and would've liked a little deeper of a portrayal of him. But that didn't diminish my enjoyment of the book. I literally couldn't put it down, and neither could a friend I gave it to to read. If you want to get lost in a story that draws you along and constantly keeps you fascinated, I highly recommend this book.	2005-05-22
US	50493251	R2J3B1OPVPM0B9	0964631601	351045863	Pierced By A Sword	Books	1	10	49	N	N	A State of Disgrace	I picked up this book because it was on the literature rack at my (Catholic) church. It sounded interesting, and I had high hopes for it at the beginning, but about 1/3 of the way through I couldn't read anymore because it was hopeless.    Just for starters, the writing is about on the level of \\"My Darling, My Hamburger,\\" and the plot is a throwaway. Two couples meet and (1)Poof! fall into deep, abiding love instantly, and (2)the nonreligious member of the couple immediately embraces wholeheartedly every last scrap of official Catholic doctrine ever promulgated by any pope, past or future. Uh-huh? So why do we need RCIA?    Next, the author doesn't know his history, which to me makes every other statement in the book suspect. He says that during the Great Depression, \\"social unrest wasn't a problem.\\" Really? I hate to bust his bubble, but massive, violent labor protests, veterans marching on Washington and camping out for weeks demanding their bonuses, bank riots, and shooting matches over repossession of property does qualify as social unrest, and it WAS a problem--that's why FDR slammed the New Deal through Congress like a freight train running through a crossing. Also, Catholic doctrine is not the unchanging, monolithic edifice Mr. McFarlane makes it sound like. It's all been up for grabs forever: the creeds weren't finalized till centuries after Jesus; priestly celibacy only dates to the early middle ages; the immaculate conception of Mary and her whole Mediatrix shebang are only recent innovations (19th century, if I'm not mistaken).    But what really bothers me about the book is how mindlessly it adheres to ultra-orthodox Catholic theology. For instance, a man has a near-death experience in which he is shown that he will go to Hell for using contraception. And people are praying \\"to\\" Mary right and left, leaving Jesus and God as marginal figures--if you weren't Catholic, you'd begin to wonder if Catholics even know who Jesus and God are. If I weren't Catholic, I would read this book and think, \\"Holy Hell, there's no WAY I'm gonna be part of anything this freaky.\\"    And frankly, if I didn't know from the inside that Catholicism is wide open and that virtually nobody cares about the Church's official teachings, I wouldn't want to be part of it either, so I really can't see how this book could convince anybody they would.	2005-05-15
US	50493251	R23RRAG9TVTFBT	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Enjoyed It, Till the Last Page...	I love travelogues, but I've never read any of Bryson's books, so I can't say whether it's one of his best or not. But on its own merits, I enjoyed the writing and his views of the different parts of Europe. He comes up with some wonderful metaphors, and the book held my interest throughout. At age 42, I no longer feel I have to read every word of a book--life's too short, so skip the parts you don't care about--but I did read every word of this one.  BUT--on the last page, when he decides to go home, he reveals that his wife is pregnant again and he really thinks maybe he ought to get back. WHAT??!! What kind of lowdown leaves his pregnant wife and kids fending for themselves while he gallivants around Europe for a couple months? What kind of idiot woman stays married to such a schmuck? I lost all respect for Bryson then and there.  But still, you can't deny the writing is good and enjoyable. So read it, just skip the last page. :)	2005-04-23
US	50493251	RP87N97FKKY95	029274322X	18628871	Breaking Out of Beginner's Spanish	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Eat This Book Like Candy!	This book is an invaluable resource for the person who knows the basics of Spanish but wants to be able to converse more colloquially and fluidly. I bought it to use as a reference, but I sat down and basically read it cover-to-cover like a novel--it's that well-written and fascinating. It contains great advice on common pitfalls English speakers make, uses of words that the dictionaries don't tell you about, and particularly helpful, translations of those verbal tags you put on sentences in normal conversation--\\"y'know,\\" \\"well,\\" \\"and so on,\\" etc. I found this to be extremely valuable because, as the author says, you can throw these phrases in while your brain is grinding into 1st gear and throwing together the sentence ahead.  However, I can't give it the full 5 stars because:  *I wish the author would have treated the \\"trilled rr\\" issue a little more fully. Other than TV and radio announcers, I have never heard an actual Hispanic person use the trilled rr. To me, accustomed to the speech of Puerto Ricans, Colombians, and Dominicans, it sounds stilted and affected. Also, like a lot of people, I can do the trilled rr as an isolated sound, but I just can't get it as part of a word. It would've been neat if the book had given alternatives for the rr-impaired--at the very least, a quick review of how to make the \\"flap\\" r sound so you at least won't be using an American English r.  *The book doesn't have an index, which it really should. Yes, you should read the whole thing; but an index would really be handy when you are practicing your Spanish and you can't remember how to say \\"no wonder\\" or what verbs you should use instead of \\"coger.\\" This is the major reason I have to dock them a star. I would definitely go up to 5 stars--6 if I could--if the next edition would have an index.  But buy the book, because it's terrific and it will take you up a level in your spoken Spanish!	2005-03-04
US	50493251	R90PKGCWXO9JZ	0785270868	710208668	The Ultimatum (Reluctant Prophet Series #2)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Yeah, but...	I picked this book up at a Goodwill store, so from that and reading the back cover, I had a pretty good idea what the political/religious slant would be. But the plot sounded really interesting, so I figured I'd take a gamble. Well, the plot *is* really interesting, but the writing and some of the ideas don't do it justice. To start with the ideas:    (1)\\"This country is going to the dogs\\" is an old, old lament. You can read it in the literature of every civilization. Think for a moment that if it were true, the societies of Sumer and Akkad would have been heaven on earth--which they weren't. I believe, however, that this feeling of entropy is the basis for the Eden/Paradise myth. Anyway, back to the subject.  (2)No Constitutional amendment is needed to protect religion, since the first amendment reads: \\"Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\\" But this cannot be read as a protection of Christianity only. In fact, this country was founded on the idea of giving free space to all beliefs and not nationalizing any one particular belief--regardless of what the Evangelicals may say.  (3)Only Evangelicals are represented as Christians, when in fact there are not enough of them to force a Constitutional convention, even if every one of them supported it. So presumably mainline Protestants and Catholics would have to be pushing the amendment, yet they are not even mentioned.    Now, to the writing:    While the book is very readable, Mr. Bunn makes some grammatical mistakes (mainly using a comma where a semicolon is required), and the writing is uneven. For some reason, he uses the contractions characteristic of normal speech (\\"They're thinking he's going to support it\\") sometimes, but forced-sounding full words in others (\\"I am afraid he is not going to support it\\"). Some characters are well-delineated (Royce Calder), while others are either mere sketches (Molly Korda) or stereotypes (James Thaddeus).OK, you probably get the drift of what I'm saying. To sum up, this would be a good read when you're looking for something that doesn't make a lot of demands--at the beach, say, or when recovering from an illness. The plot is a great idea; I would like to see it handled by an author with no agenda and greater descriptive powers. To treat it properly would probably require the book to be twice as long as it actually is. And the ending would be 180 degrees from what it actually is. However, if you spot this one at a used book mart, I'd say go for it, because it will get you thinking.	2004-12-12
US	50493251	RFEC13A0N60QX	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	1	12	31	N	N	zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...	This is the most boring book I was ever forced to read (for an English class). I cannot describe how mind-numbing and pointless it was. I couldn't have cared less what happened to the old man, the fish, the boat, or Ernest Hemmingway. It was a titanic struggle to get through the book--way harder than anything the old man had to face. James Joyce does stream of consciousness a whole lot better--and I hate Joyce's writing too. Don't waste your time reading this one when there are plenty of books out there with an actual plot.	2004-12-12
US	50493251	R1NTL036RGOJMG	0684837374	612083066	Home from Nowhere: Remaking Our Everyday World for the 21st Century	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Ideas: B+. Writing: C-.	I bought the book after reading the back cover copy, thinking it would be interesting because cities have always fascinated me. Well, it is hard to describe exactly how I felt reading the book. It was very incisive and eye-opening in explaining why suburban life creates the disconnectedness, the apathy, and the isolation so many people feel--and how the cities in their present state induce the rage and crime typical of those environments. In that respect it was interesting, but I didn't make it to the end of the book because:  (a)All of this was so depressing I wanted to curl up in a little ball and die; and  (b)Kunstler's writing is way off the charts--hyperbolic, strident, and slightly hysterical. I found this very off-putting. He could've said the same things in a normal, calm, in-control way and probably gained a wider audience and opened the subject up for more objective consideration. When people get freaked out, there's no room for actual discourse, so I think Kunstler did himself and his subject a disservice by writing like such a chihuahua.  To sum up, I would like to see other books about this subject written by cooler heads.	2004-10-29
US	50493251	R267SLZURMHMCI	0452284554	111902659	Riding the Bus with My Sister: A True Life Journey	Books	2	13	24	N	N	Thank God I Have a Car	I got this book from our office \\"library,\\" where people leave off books they've finished for others to pick up. Opening it to the middle and scanning a few sentences, I thought it would be interesting. And it was, for a while. It's about the author and her retarded sister, who rides the buses in her city all day, every day. The author is trying to discover her sister by riding the bus with her. It holds up for about half the book, but after a while you realize the sister is lazy, obnoxious, and socially indifferent. She gets really tiresome after a while, and therefore, unfortunately, so does the book. I ended up being much more interested in the vignettes from the sisters' past life experience, especially about their mother. Now that would be a story worth writing--and reading. Better luck next time, author.	2004-10-08
US	50493251	R3NWJSDJ98Z1VI	0471214175	462531098	Capital Instincts: Life As an Entrepreneur, Financier, and Athlete	Books	1	53	58	N	N	GAACK!	I am in a unique position to comment on this book as I was the copyeditor on it. Previous to this I could not reveal my opinions, but I am no longer employed by the company I worked for at that time, and ever since I read this piece of puke, I've wanted to tell somebody--anybody!--how horrific it is. Thom Weisel is a royal b**tard with an equally king-sized ego, and about 99% of the book is him bragging on himself. Don't think Brandt is the author--Thommy boy had his hands firmly on the reins the whole way through, BELIEVE ME BECAUSE HE MADE FIFTY THOUSAND CHANGES AT EVERY STAGE OF THE PUBLICATION PROCESS!!! Note also that almost every one of these changes was to make the book even more self-aggrandizing than it started out. If you love reading the inflated-headed ramblings of a narcissistic egotist, this one is for you, but if bloated self-smooching turns you off the least bit, prepare to never stop throwing up.<br /> <br />And now, for my final question: Why doesn't he just sleep with Lance Armstrong and get it over with?<br /> <br />I feel so much better now!	2004-07-25
US	50493251	RSSP9FVZNX3P2	093636954X	380651923	Jack Lambert: Tough As Steel	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Bless Me, Howard Cosell, for I Have Sinned...	Let me start off by saying that, whatever else you may think of Howie baby, he was right when he railed against what he called the &quot;Jock-ocracy.&quot; Suffice it to say that the closest I will ever get to playing team sports is singing in my church choir...but I was a Steelers fan back in the day, and I thought this book would probably be a good light, entertaining read. And it basically is, within the parameters of the kind of book it is. Ron Rotunno is limited as a writer, and he approaches his subject with a gee-whiz kind of reverence that will break up anybody who ever read *Ball Four,* but still this book would be a good gift for a die-hard Lambert fan as it would give them some insight into his background.<br />   Having said that, though, I find the whole idea that Jack Lambert is so sacramentally private to be pretty uproarious. Living in PA, I have center seats to the drama, or should I say melodrama? If you can picture a skinny male Greta Garbo, you've got the goods on him--&quot;I want to be alone, but only if everybody notices.&quot; Jack, honey, the flight has left the tarmac. You have to either admit you're a media ho and go with it, or stop vamping yourself and respect your own privacy. I mean, if we could all have it both ways, wouldn't we all be both rich AND beautiful?<br />   But I digress. Back to the subject at hand. In all seriousness, this is a decent read for a Steelers fan, within its limits. And to be honest, I actually think Jack Lambert is worth writing a book on. Who cares if he wants one or not? Just hire Frank Deford to write it! Frank's unflinchingly honest and fair, humorous, and he can put together a hell of a paragraph. That's my opinion, and you damn well better believe I'm stickin' to it.	2004-07-25
US	50493251	R17HAQM05X4F7S	0767903323	452949371	Buddhism Plain and Simple: The Practice of Being Aware, Right Now, Every Day	Books	1	23	52	N	N	Huh?	I had read several other books about Buddhism before I picked up this one, and I have to say it did not live up to its title. After reading it, I still found Buddhism to be bewildering. (Of course, that could also be due to the fact that its practitioners seem to be in a tooth-and-nail competition to show how enlightened they are by being as obtuse and incomprehensible as possible.) Anyway, this book did nothing to clear things up for me.    It has been a few years since I read the book, and my spiritual journey has taken me to a way different place than where I was at the time...so maybe I should thank Mr. Hagen for keeping me from pursuing Buddhism any further. Personally, I think there are better basic explanatory books on Buddhism, like *The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching* by Thich Nhat Hanh. Mr. Hagen's book will leave you just as puzzled as you were before you read it.	2004-07-25
US	50493251	R23PY05OJGLYD8	158501043X	152746908	Beach Blanket Atheism: The Beginner's Guide for the Non-Believer	Books	2	10	12	N	N	needs a professional edit	As a professional editor, I must agree with preceding comments--if this book was edited, I hope the publisher fires the editor. There are too many spelling and punctuation errors to count, errors with font changes (things set italic that should be roman and vice versa) and just a lot of sloppiness that should be really embarrassing to the author and publisher. I was embarrassed for them! This stuff detracts so much from the actual text of the book that it makes it virtually unusable. I hope that if it ever comes out in a second edition, they spring for a professional edit to eliminate all these problems. What should be a fun, useful book ends up being a pile of crap because of the poor (or lack of) editing.	2003-12-04
US	50493251	R2AR7BZM6D42E6	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	1	39	78	N	N	new age piffle	I bought this book with high hopes after reading all the glowing reviews, but I didn't find much to recommend it. It's a rehash of typical New Age doctrine in all its reality-contradicting, wishful-thinking, anti-white, anti-Western, I-must-be-enlightened-because-I-speak-on-such-a-high-level-you-can't-understand-me glory. I found it very off-putting and self-contradictory, and it completely doesn't match up with my experience of life. In my opinion, it ridiculously oversimplifies the human condition.  But here's what I really want to know: during the two years Mr. Tolle \\"sat on park benches in a state of bliss,\\" as he states early on in the book, with \\"no job,\\" what the hell did he do for food? Is he a trust fund baby? Did he hit the lottery? Was he independently wealthy long before that? Or was he eating out of dumpsters? Just this little chunk of the book cemented its lack of contact with the reality of most people's lives. And if you're not speaking to the reality of people's lives, you're only talking to your navel. In my opinion, your money is best spent elsewhere.	2003-03-22
US	50493251	R2TP2MIRUH9XYI	0826459455	803362423	Secularisation (New Century Theology)	Books	1	6	60	N	N	Eeeeeeekkkkkk!	The book is subtitled \\"New Century Theology,\\" but forget about that--the author seems to be living in a past millennium. He pines for the good old Inquisition days when Christian dogma was shoved down everyone's throat, people despised themselves and \\"live[d] in terror of hell\\" (his words), and those uppity women weren't making pests of themselves by desiring some kind of status in the men's-club Church. He even speaks positively of the Islamic countries because they put serving God ahead of human welfare. Yeesh! If he thinks reverting to this kind of society is an improvement, I suggest he take a look at all the videotapes of Taliban-style executions and harrassment in Afghanistan, because that's the ultimate result of the kind of doctrinaire fundamentalism he seems so eager to force on everyone.  The only thing he got right, in my opinion, was that most people are turned off by the \\"passing the peace.\\" (I know I personally am.) All I can say about the rest of the book is that: (a) he's a cleric in the Anglican church, so he's got a financial stake in whether it survives, and (b) if he's so hyped up on hating yourself and fearing hell, he's never really tried it. As someone who was brought up with these doctrines, I can tell him they are a horrible way to live, and if you truly believe them you will end up pretty close to insane. I would suggest Mr. Norman take a long, logical look at the bizarrity of Christian doctrine (and the results of strictly applying it: Calvin's Geneva, perhaps) before recommending we go back several hundred years to the \\"good old days.\\"	2002-07-20
US	50493251	RGE2CYMCADU6A	0465086284	322831478	To Pray As A Jew	Books	4	40	45	N	N	Beautiful, perplexing	I gave this book 4 stars mainly on the strength of the translations. Hebrew is not my native language, so although I know what the prayers are talking about in Hebrew, I'd rather pray in the language my heart, soul, and mind speak (English, in case you haven't guessed). And this is where Donin excells. His translations of the prayers are poetic, inspiring, uplifting--simply splendid. This contrasts with the situation of the average siddur, with translations that are pedestrian at best and stupefying at worst.  But I could not give the book a 5th star because it gets so bogged down in legal minutiae that it could give you a migraine--or scare you away from investigating Jewish spirituality. Jews of all branches should be able to use the marvelous translations of the prayers, but the heavy-handed halachic emphasis would probably be scary and/or freaky to someone taking the first steps into Jewish spirituality. If you are Conservative or Reform (not to mention Reconstructionist or nonreligious), just remember to take the stringent approach to halacha with an appropriately sized grain of salt. But buy the book, and use the magnificent translations of the prayers--you will be wishing that Donin had published his own siddur so you could have them with you everywhere.	2002-06-18
US	50493251	R2NC3S1XLCCZIV	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A mesmerizing read	As soon as I started reading this book I could not put it down. It's the best thing I've read in a long time! I can't give it 5 stars because to me the dialogue comes off as kind of stilted and unnatural-sounding--but the dialogue is by no means the most important aspect of the book. It has the kind of propulsive plot that makes you wish you could read faster so you could find out what happens next, and Ayn Rand's descriptive writing is peerless. It really blows my mind to think she only learned English when she was in her twenties. I highly recommend this book to everyone. It is fabulous! I now plan to read everything else Ayn Rand ever wrote.	2002-03-07
US	50493251	R1QAHXR9UQN5LP	0312965788	546505387	All Creatures Great and Small	Books	5	1	1	N	N	These books are good medicine	I got the set of all 4 of James Herriot's books in paperback when I was a teenager (a long time ago--okay!), and I have read them many times since. It is no exaggeration to say that in the darkest times of my life, these books have helped me to pull through. I could laugh and cry with the stories, lose myself and my problems for a while, and come out feeling somehow heartened and renewed. I always wished I had written Mr. Herriot to tell him this. Anyway, I recommend these books to everybody. They're fabulous stories that will crack you up and pull at your heartstrings. What more could anybody want? Herriot is a master storyteller, and the characters he creates are at once universal and unique. I defy anyone to read these and not be touched.	2002-02-03
US	50493251	RJXMU7KC0MDXK	0062516477	344099532	The Four Witnesses : The Rebel, the Rabbi, the Chronicler, and the Mystic -- Why the Gospels Present Strikingly Different Visions of Jesus	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good stuff to say, bad way to say it	I read the reviews while trying to decide whether to buy this book, and I couldn't decide whether all the comments about it being hard to read meant it was written in an obtuse way or just that the sentences were too long for present-day taste. Having bought it, and as a professional editor, I can say that Griffiths-Jones could really have used the services of a pro. One of two things happened: Either Griffiths-Jones refused to let an editor look at the manuscript (or rejected any suggestions his editor had), or his publisher hoodwinked him and gave him a second-rate hack. Not only did I see some typos--which there is no excuse for, especially in a book aimed at a thoughtful audience--but the author seems incapable of staying in the correct verb tense for even one sentence. It is extremely distracting! I found myself mentally editing as I read, putting everything in the correct tense so as to be able to make some sense of it. This is very unfortunate, because the points the author makes are interesting and thought-provoking. What a shame to wipe that out due to the poor/lack of editing. Author, next time avail yourself of an editor!	2001-02-08
US	50493251	R2NW9GLOLEKVKO	0830816968	675657711	A Generation Alone: Xers Making a Place in the World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	it makes sense to me	Born in 1962, I'm on the early edge of GenX (some would say I'm a Boomer--till I slap 'em!), and reading this book made some things fall into place for me. Like why I want to go to church, but when I do, I can't stand being there. It's not a place where people gather to support one another and to learn by confronting the hard things about life--it's a religion mill where people go to plaster over the hard things about life. That is not what I want or need. The previous reviewer is right--until there are churches that are willing to preach to people's despair and doubt and the apparent pointlessness they feel--NOT to talk around it or try to make everyone into Up With People clones--there's nowhere for us to go. And that does s--k because WE NEED GOD. Hopefully this book will open some eyes, though since I'm only the second reviewer I'm not too hopeful.	2001-02-02
US	50493251	R3NUL7GICFDQ0P	0060675322	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks To Believers In Exile A New Reformation of the Church's Faith & Practice	Books	5	88	105	N	N	Faith without Reason = Superstition!	This book is awesome! I had only gotten a few pages into it and already I felt like Spong must have somehow tapped directly into my brain! He speaks to the many, many people out there who feel disenfranchised by a  Christianity that keeps serving up ancient fairy stories that are  impossible for anyone with a critical (no, make that functioning) intellect  to accept. He asks a lot of the questions we are asking; dares to speak the  truth about the anger, defensiveness, and politicism that have  characterized the Church; and liberates Jesus from the doctrinal  straightjacket the Church has encased him in.   No, Spong doesn't really  provide *answers*--but I think that's the point. So often people who  question are told, basically, to shut up and believe because shutting up  and believing is what faith is all about. Spong replies that questioning  and reformulating is healthy. I agree with him wholeheartedly that unless  Christianity wakes up and starts reexamining itself, it is going to die.  Thinking people will dismiss it as a useless relic because it will be so  inadequate for their everyday lives. It's happening that way now.   I  highly recommend that anybody with any spiritual life whatsoever read this  book! It is extremely thought-provoking (which is probably why the fundies  can't stand it), and no matter what belief system you arrive at, you need  to arrive there informed.	2000-04-11
