US	50506686	R277MTHA2WEA97	0385495048	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism, and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Revelations	In ONE MARKET UNDER GOD, Thomas Frank brilliantly unpacks the self-serving ideology of the corporatocracy.  As he did in CONQUEST OF COOL and WHAT HAPPENED TO KANSAS, he examines the many self-serving narratives of the corporate state, showing how each story supports a pseudo-populist philosophy designed to whip up anti-elitist sentiments in order to better serve the interests of that elite.     Legitimacy, since the Great Crash, had, until fairly recently been a fairly daunting problem for business.  Now, as Frank points out, with the children of the Depression passing away, the corporatocracy and its junior partners in government have been emboldened to portray themselves as the heirs to Populism, Progressivism, and the New Deal, to advertise themselves as the vanguard of a revolutionary movement, a movement which through the millennial workings of the market is clearing the way for a new birth of freedom in the U.S.A., and throughout the world.      Frank notes, for instance, that throughout the 90s Americans were told that average working stiff could easily become the \\"millionaire next door,\\" and further, that the average guy was much better off owning stock than relying on his pension or Social Security to see him through his golden years.  So pervasive did this free market farrago become in the media, that even now, well after the New Economy bubble burst, many still hear it as gospel, believe that inevitably everything must be privatized.  So cunning has the pro-business rhetoric of the corporate state become that the average American blames himself for not being \\"entrepreneurial\\" enough, when instead Frank says he should be working to reverse the corporatocracy's 30-year rollback of worker's and citizen's rights.      A profoundly funny writer with a razor-sharp satiric edge, Frank will have you laughing out loud at the transparent self-serving cant of the corporatocracy and their handmaidens in the media, academia, and government.  Frank knows his history,and clearly sees through the latest lies of that great unregenerate beast, redder now in tooth and claw than ever before.	2005-10-12
US	50506686	R1DVE4X65WUDFD	088784524X	710108747	Ivan Illich in Conversation	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	Common Sense	The New York Times has been of many minds about Ivan Illich, beginning with its review of \\"Deschooling Society\\" in 1971. According to The Times' December 4, 2002 obituary of Illich, the Times reviewer found the book to be \\"'a mind-bending litany of abstraction' and a distraction from schools' all too real problems.\\"  In that same year however, Anatole Broyard found Illich's critiques \\"illuminating.\\"  But this was apparently  a burst of youthful enthusiasm, for twenty years later in 1989, Broyard repented his earlier endorsement of Illich: in an article about winnowing down his library he said he would \\"especially\\" discard Mr. Illich's works.      It's not surprising Illich's project flummoxed the NYTimes.  As progressive advocates of the modern project, and now the last outpost of bourgeoisie brownstone liberalism, the Times' promulgates a kind of idealist pragmatic middle ground where technocrats can dispassionately design and administer systems that will promote the Good and the Beautiful.  Illich, on the other hand, ultimately rejected the modern project, whatever its political orientation, because he viewed it as inherently corrupt.  In his earlier writings in the early 70s, such as TOOLS FOR CONVIVIALITY, he believed that it might be possible to stop, rethink and humanize mankind's relationship with man and the earth.  But by the end of his life he saw that the modernist project could not be arrested in its destructive disenchantment of the earth and humankind.     The socio-philosophes employed by the Times were more willing to hear these critiques during the high-water mark of radical politics in the late 60s and early 70s.  The center of political gravity was left of center then, pulling the pragmatic middle of The Times along with it.  Now, of course, the Times employ liberal idealist philosophers like Thomas Friedman who preach the neo-liberal creed of economic expansion as the means to usher in a democratic millennium.  Or David Brooks, the liberal's favorite conservative, who, like Friedman, routinely spouts tendentious and intellectually dishonest examples to buttress his dogmatic assertions on the moral rightness of the invasion of southern or eastern nations by Western powers.  It's not surprising that in the current environment the NY Times obituary would characterize Illich's critique as \\"watered-down Marxism.\\"  In fact, Illich's critique is actually considerably more radical.  Marx believed that once the expropriators were expropriated and the state withered away a worker's paradise would ensue.  He didn't want to arrest industrialization, he wanted the workers to have control over their destiny.  Illich thought the whole project was monstrous, no matter who owned or ran it.      Illich believed that the penetration of systems logic into the lifeworld had to be opposed on an individual basis.  One way to do this was to engage in deep compassionate friendships.  Another was to be sensitive to and eschew the kind of infernal comparisons technocrats make between people and technologies, i.e., that humans are systems consisting of software and hardware, inputs and outputs.  As part of this, he also attacked the technocratic reconceptualization of mankind through new definitions of old words and their former meanings, e.g., the new notion of \\"life\\" as some general entity that can be nurtured on some general level, presumably by a technocrat or politician, i.e., the \\"culture of life.\\"  Rather he insisted that life is embodied in and inseparable from biological entities -- that there is no life, only lives.   Illich also suggested reading history, especially the writings of key monastics from the 12th century, as a way to defamiliarize oneself the hegemonic power of the current version of \\"common sense\\" and so understand that other ways of living and interacting with each other and with the world were possible, and necessary.   He sought by such readings to demonstrate that beyond a certain level of institutionalized expertise, most experts and their expert systems are actually counterproductive.    Illich's critique cannot be countenanced these days when the ideology of technical progress has so permeated us that the notion of organ repair kits (from our clones) seems like a good idea.  It seems clear now that the desacralization of the lifeworld cannot be stopped.  The spark of hope that it might was extinguished by the counterrevolution of the bosses in the mid-70s.  The NY Times meekly fell back into line along with just about everyone else.  Illich was a conscientious objector to modernism to the last, preferring to let a cancer on his jaw take his life slowly and painfully rather than surrender himself and his dignity to the anti-human ethos of the medico-technologico community.    IVAN ILLICH IN CONVERSATION is an excellent introduction to Illich's radical humanist perspective.	2005-04-10
US	50506686	R1DO2P466LO4J	1565847369	212323616	The Unfinished City: New York and the Metropolitan Idea	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Reading New York	What most interested me in this brilliant collection is Bender's periodization of New York cultural authority. In line with other works on New York, but more cleanly and clearly articulated and supported with well chosen facts, Bender identifies three cultural authorities loosely suceeding one another after the Revolution.      First, The Patrician as exemplified by De Witt Clinton as both a powerful politician who 'qualified' as an authority, and who was a member of and directed cultural institutions. Next, the Common Man came during the Jacksonian era where cultural authority was seized by the common man a la Whitman. During this period, Barnum's American Museum offered all citizens the opportunity to visually inspect a 'promiscuous' collection of artifacts and allowed them to decide on its significance and importance. Commercial values predominated and, at least early on, this approach was a renuciation of the patriciate.       Then came as the Civil War drew closer, the era of the 'Professional Authorities' such as F.L. Olmsted and Samuel F.B. Morse (who as founder of the National Academy of Design as a professional organization in 1826, an early example of the doings of the \\"metropolitan gentry' who endorsed and promoted the Professional Authority.   Other examples include E.L. Godkin, founder of The Nation and who decried the 'large body of persons' taught by common schools, lyceum lectures, small colleges,newspapers \\"who firmly believe that they have reached in the matter of social, mental and moral culture, all that is attainable or desirable by anybody, and who, therefore, tackle all the problems of the day.\\" The result he insisted was \\"a kind of mental and moral chaos,\\" presumably of the middle class.  The Metropolitan Gentry who founded the Metropolitan Museum, by contrast, established clear categories on its objects -- unlike Barnum's populist American Museum.  One supposes we're still in the era of the Professional Authority and the Metropolitan Gentryhere in New York. More's the pity.      Bender's periodization was of particular interest to me, but there is much more here than the historical, including architectural, cultural and political perspectives, all of which Bender intersects in fascinating and original ways.  Highly readable and insightful.	2005-04-08
US	50506686	R1YB52T5NIKD9Q	0060560525	427463058	The Debt Threat: How Debt Is Destroying the Developing World	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Plague	Back in the good old days of Western imperialism, Western powers used the same tried and true approach over and over again to extract wealth from and subdue non-Western peoples: invasion and/or colonization, and/or enslavement. This method was effective for a few hundred years, until subjugated populations after living in close quarters with their masters and learning their weaknesses, mounted various successful forms of resistance against them, e.g., the Algerians' violent resistance of the French, or Gandhi's non-violent resistance of the British.  After the First World War, the Western powers (although with much backsliding, evident now in Iraq), began to withdraw their armies and close up their colonial shops.  After the great bloodbath of  WWI the old cover stories -- \\"The White Man's Burden\\" - were so threadbare that the average Westerner could at last see imperialism for the nasty racket it was.   <br /> <br />But wait. It turns out that was just the opening chapter of imperialism.  There's a new chapter, or in business-speak a \\"new paradigm.\\"  Through the relatively abstract miracle of debt, rich countries since WWII have been able to reclaim their hegemony. The beauty part for the West has been that invasion through debt does not require much in the way of armies and colonists.  In fact, what is really sweet about the new way of doing business is that invaders get to dictate terms to poor countries and don't usually have to back up their threats with armies.  Instead there's the threat that global traders will lower poor nations' bond ratings, squeeze their economies, and, by extension, their people, until they see the light.   Kind of like loan sharking when you think about it. <br /> <br />Loan sharks, contrary to the stories told in movies and books, generally like to keep their customers alive, because after all, they want to get their money back.  In this new form of colonialism that's pretty much true, too.  But still, people do get killed like they did during the traditional imperialist paradigm.  Hertz shows in chilling detail, for instance, how a cholera epidemic swept through Peru because Alberto Fujimori, following the dictates of the IMF and World Bank, sent every nickel he could get his hands on to pay the interest on Peru's national debt so Peru would get back into the good graces of the financial markets.  Healthcare services, welfare and other human services were curtailed or cut to pay the debt.  When Peru and opened up its economy to the international market as per the IMF just as commodity prices dropped, unemployment and poverty rates went through the roof.  Rural dwellers moved to the city seeking work.  Work was not available; unsanitary conditions were.  So desperate was their poverty that these Peruvians couldn't afford soap to wash their hands or kerosene to boil their water.  And so cholera killed nearly 4,000 in less than a year.   <br /> <br />Ms. Hertz provides much needed insight into the history of the debt threat.  It began in the Cold War - the era of the \\"chessboard and the checkbook\\" in Thomas Friedman's phrase - when the U.S. and the Soviets were buying allies.  Few restrictions applied to these loans.  Dictators and oligarchs could spend it any way they wanted as long as they remained friends.  Then in the 70s came the commercial U.S. banks, awash in petrodollars, making loans and betting that Uncle Sam would reach into the pockets of the U.S. taxpayer to bail them out if necessary.  After the Soviet collapse ended the era of checkbook diplomacy, a newly invigorated IMF and World Bank began its recent career as a lender of last resort.  Their one size fits all free market approach placed the same onerous restrictions on every nation they did business with.  Debt enslaved nations meekly agreed to more enslavement lest these agencies tighten the screws further. <br /> <br />Ms. Hertz takes us through this history at a brisk pace and shows through examples that though the approach mayhave changed, the result is the same: poor countries in thrall to rich countries.  She shows with gripping examples not only how the racket works but, more importantly, how these practices put the West in danger by promoting dangerous conditions around the world.  For instance, disease can now board an airplane and land in any Western nation in a matter of hours.  Poor people grown even poorer because of their nations cannot afford basic health services and so grow weaker, more susceptible.  Their afflictions mutate and metastasize, and soon the entire body of humanity is at risk.  Then, of course, there is the wholesale destruction of the environment as poor countries rip up their forests and sell their oil to the West so it may be burned or turned into toxins.  And, of course, there are terrorists who find an ever expanding pool of ready recruits among the poor, a whole new class of young men who are boiling with resentment and rage.  Tragically, in the narrow Western ethos of profit and loss, payment of debt must override all other concerns, because profit-making is the only goal, and capitalism the best of all possible alternatives. <br /> <br />With THE DEBT THREAT,  Ms. Hertz's continues to demonstrate how the forces of global hypercapitalism that she explored in her first book (\\"The Silent Takeover\\") put the lives of everyone in physical, and at the very least, moral jeopardy.  As in that book, her personal story gives one hope: an economist trained at Wharton (she was there to help \\"jump start\\" the Soviet economy in the early 90s and was witness first hand to the anti-human ethos of the free-market fabulists), she has switched her allegiance to the other side of the barricades.  On a positive note, global protests and activism has managed to arrest some of the worst abuses of the World Bank and IMF, the commercial banks and ECAs.  One can only hope that this cogently argued work will awaken more and more people to this latest, and perhaps even more deadly strain of imperialism. <br /> <br />	2005-02-21
US	50506686	R3PFBGHV59GEJA	0761525262	304809369	How Capitalism Saved America: The Untold History of Our Country, from the Pilgrims to the Present	Books	2	19	122	N	N	When The Saints Go Marching In	\\"There is no document of civilization which is not at the same time a document of barbarism\\" said cultural historian Walter Benjamin in \\"Theses on the Philosophy of History.\\" Benjamin knew something of barbarism -- fleeing Germany in World War II, trapped at the border, he preferred to end his life himself rather than allow the Nazis the opportunity of taking it.    The National Socialism project promised a prosperous society based on the American model.  The promise shrewdly spoke to two groups necessary to the party's success: 1) the money power of German and other capitalists (such as Prescott Bush and Herbert Walker) who would stand to profit from the contracts for the manufacture of Volkswagens, dive bombers and gas pellets, and 2) the German Volk, who would prosper not only materially but also spiritually, ensconced at the center of a nationalist mythology proclaiming their imminent resurrection within a pure and virtuous community retrieved from an heroic past.    The mythic materialist paradise, although alluring, was not sufficient to motivate the invasion of Europe and the destruction of the fascists' internal enemies. So, in addition, this ideology promised an end to the humiliations suffered in the defeat of the First World War, presented a checklist of villains responsible for the current national calamity, and an action plan for dealing with various evil-doers. The first bullet point on the plan was the formation into paramilitary units murderers who would mercilessly terminate those vermin who would dare to smother the realm of revelation that was struggling to be born into world. It was from this demonic underside that the ideology derived its true power.     The same revanchist program is everywhere evident in HOW CAPITALISM SAVED AMERICA.  Fueled by a resentment of anyone who might question the omnibenevolent energies of capitalism [...], DiLorenzo offers a vision of a coming consumer society blessed with do-gooder capitalists -- economic angels --who, once hellish government restraints are removed, will give birth to a similar materialist heaven on earth. Yea, once those regulating liberals stand aside and allow the eternal laws of supply and demand to properly engage -- under the gentle but irresistible pressure of Mr. Smith's Invisible Hand -- the mystical machine will inexorably and (inexplicably) guide capital in such ways as to bring forth, well, the millenium. (It's not surprising that a free marketeer like DiLorenzo cavils about the interference of the state in capitalism but that he is insensible to the interference of his free market religion into what he believes is a work about capitalism.)    Capitalism, in its popular neo-liberal form, employs a somewhat subtler ideology than did National Socialism. Its barbarity is submerged beneath the slick surface of a state which offers a checklist of individual rights, e.g., the freedom of speech, religion, the right to a jury trial, etc. Of course, these rights have never been well defended in the public sphere, and in the private sphere, contested at every turn. Mr. DiLorenzo would probably be unwilling or unable given his prejudices to admit that the liberal state in actual fact identifies its interests as congruent with the money power and that both work strenuously to suppress or discredit alternative views or organizations. The suppression of such views in Germany was violent; in the neo-liberal state where the press is \\"free,\\" opposing views are typically not treated at all, or treated with incredulity, disdain or mockery.  (Think of the many neo-con shills, who, in their interchangeability, belie their Darwinist defense of capitalism that it raises up rugged individualists -- never was a party line so slavishly followed as by these appparatchiks).     There is one good thing about this tendentious tissue of half-truths and outright lies, however. In one volume is distilled the pandering creed of the so-called Austrian School and their Chicago School followers. Like his idols, DiLorenzo fails to respond to the fundamental observation about how neo-liberal capitalism really functions: that the state and business work as partners in plunder. Instead, like his idols he believes that because there is a word for \\"business\\" and another word for the \\"state\\" that these are separate entities with separate endpoints.  He clearly believes that if so-called free market capitalism could be granted its infantile wish of a night watchman state that the cabalistic prophecies of consumption everlasting will finally be made flesh.     Readers will have to make up their own minds about whether America has been truly saved, and whether this book is yet another brutal document of barbarism.	2005-01-19
US	50506686	R3PQPM8BG4WC0A	0195170253	778071638	In Defense of Globalization	Books	2	29	62	N	N	The Best of All Possible Worlds	In 1964, sociologist Jacques Ellul in his prophetic book THE TECHNOLOGICAL SOCIETY wrote:  \\"The human being is changing under the pressure of the economic milieu; he is in the process of becoming the uncomplicated being the liberal economist constructed\\" (pg. 219). Readers of IN DEFENSE OF GLOBALIZATION are certain to recognize in its pages the latest neo-liberal incarnation of that theoretically necessary, but historically implausible construct, \\"homo economicus\\" not only in Bhagwati's view of humanity but, perhaps, in Bhagwati himself. <br />In a nod to those legions of philosophers and writers who over the past two hundred years have attempted to arrest the career of this reductive model of humanity, Bhagwati's updated version of homo economicus is imbued with some non-rational characteristics, envy for one, and, culture, for another.  In this Bhagwati, to his credit, is more up to date than his contemporaries from Chicago.  He recognizes that not only does man not live by bread alone, but that globalization did not invent bread, ancient non-capitalist cultures did.  Eventually, however these concessions to the many critics of homo economicus are revealed as strategic concessions only, because ultimately Bhagwati believes that all humans, though they are not necessarily born to be rational wealth maximizers, must become so.  Those who do not comply will hold humanity back from the best form of goodness that can be achieved: economic prosperity through global capitalism.  For him other forms of prosperity, such as spiritual or moral prosperity, while noble, are necessary only insofar as they promote and support wealth creation.  We certainly have not achieved the best of all possible worlds yet, Bhagwati replies to his critics, and we may never achieve it, he concedes, but of the means at our disposal the neo-liberal economic system is the best there is.  Sure, there are \\"externalities,\\" he admits, but on balance, of all the possible systems that are known, it works best.<br />The strategic concession is by far Bhagwati's most effective rhetorical strategy.  Yes, he agrees, pollution is bad, but, he insists, pollution can be fixed (blithely overlooking the fact it has not yet been fixed, seems to be increasing to the point where it threatens our existence and that those who have power are disinclined to undo the mechanisms that brought them into power). Yes, he acknowledges, people's societies are becoming emptied of their old meanings by the techniques of global capitalism.  But, he argues, in this best of all possible worlds  the omnibenevolent energies of global capitalism have stimulated the genius of writers like Salman Rushdie who meld the ancient and modern together in a bold new hybrid (a rationale which overlooks the fact that much of modern literature, including Rushdie's, is an attempt to find meaning in a world that is everyday upended through the \\"creative destruction\\" of capitalism). <br />So using the technique of the strategic concession, the critics of global capitalism might say, yes, we agree our standard of living has risen in the past hundred years (but the disparity between rich and poor is wider now than it has ever been, a disparity that means greater influence accrues to fewer and fewer people who have more and more say about how the world economy will be structured.)  Sure, we in the United States live as kings could not even conceive of living 200 years ago (and consume 25% of the world's energy and in so doing, endanger the present environment and the lives of generations to come).  Yes, the promotion of literacy is a good thing (except that it generally it takes a generation or so for a people to learn that they will never be as prosperous as those who imposed the technique of capital upon them and another generation to understand that their old ways of life have become emptied of meaning, ancient human meanings that can never be fully recovered). <br />The cultural critique of globalization is particularly difficult for Bhagwati to manage.  Indeed, it's a critique that has been around since the early days of the Industrial Revolution in the works of Carlyle, Morris, Dickens, and those other Englishmen of that time whom Bhagwati is perversely fond of quoting.  These Englishmen saw the evils of the dark satanic mills in a time before such evils were reclassified as externalities by business schools and their wealthy donors, before the mills and their more distressing byproducts were moved out of sight and out of mind.  Yes, he agrees that capitalism can be destructive of community, but maintains that that older beliefs about the nature of humankind can live peacefully together with global capital as in the Rushdie example above.  Here he leaves the realm of the disingenuous argument and passes into dissembling.  [The] \\"Technique\\" [behind globalization] \\"worships nothing, respects nothing.  It has a single role: to strip off externals, to bring everything to light, and by rational use to transform everything into means...The sacred cannot resist.\\" (Jacques Ellul again, pg. 142, The Technological Civilization). <br />Those wary of globalization have seen enough of its antecedents to know that this newest manifestation of capitalism turns once functioning societies into compost, and sometimes dangerous compost.  Perhaps many societies, as Bhagwati asserts, are worthy only of the garbage heap of history.  Agreed.  There are traditional societies and beliefs which are repressive, cruel, or which have been radicalized to become so when they are touched by globalization. The difficulty lies in the fact that globalization does not make distinctions -- it does not pass over worthy societies and undermine only the less worthy.   It is a technique and as such simply cannot understand or go easy on societies where people are defined as other than rational wealth-maximizers.  It has no answer for those once culturally rich and fertile cultures which are now only the stilled poetry out of which grows the prosaic apologetics of the neo-liberal economist.	2004-05-22
US	50506686	RA3VGE2EGF9A4	1400042216	392206348	Reason: Why Liberals Will Win the Battle for America	Books	4	199	244	N	N	Piercing the Cloud Of Unreason	A good and noble project is REASON, but one which ultimately fails.  Not because Reich is not reasonable.  Not because he is not clear-eyed, prudent, and good-humored as well.<br />No, REASON fails because fair reason, that powerful engine of the Enlightenment and a mainstay of the Founding Fathers, has been short-circuited by 1) the socially corrosive bought-and-paid-for cant of the right-wing libertarian think tank crowd, 2) the intolerant and divisive fulminations of Christian Right and their self-appointed public scolds, and 3) the tendentious free-market fables told by the Chicago \\"School\\" to serve and protect the prerogatives of the wealthy.  Perhaps most threatening of all to sweet reason is 4) the trillion megawatt transmission system carved out of the public airwaves that stuffs this quasi-philosophic farrago of half-truths and outright lies into the ears of a stunned American public.<br />Reich intends REASON as a kind of handbook for the politically moderate American who knows that the grand egalitarian tradition is under siege, wants to understand how the Radcons have done it, and wants to do something about it.  Reich knows that many Americans who grew up in a more optimistic, yes, a kinder and gentler liberal America are at a loss in trying to understand and counter the manipulative rhetorical tricks and absolutist dogma of the Radcon crowd. (Radcon is Reich's shorthand for the new model conservative  -- the radical conservative -- a species of political animal bearing little resemblance to either the traditional Burkean conservative,or to that moderate, fiscally conservative Republican who until just recently held the Radcon's revanchist tendencies in check.)<br />With REASON, Reich shows how the Radcons have stacked the deck of public discourse through various debating club stratagems -- the classic argument from authority (because I said so and I'm in charge) and perhaps the even more favored \\"slippery slope\\" argument (if we let one person spit outtheir car window, then everyone will spit out their car windows and soon no one will be able to drive because all the spit will make it impossible to see out the windows and chaos and anarchy will ensue and that mustn't be allowed to happen, and so more police must be hired and more jails built).<br />Reich also shows how Radcon absolutism works, too.  He shows that the seemingly contradictory Radcon \\"philosophies\\" -- libertarianism, \\"objectivism,\\" fundamentalism -- do share one simple idea: that man and womankind are evil.  Further, generally speaking, evil is in these philosophies anything that might give more power to those who traditionally have had less power.  This means more power given to women, gays, and people who are not white is evil.  It means that more power given to people who are not religious in the way that they ought to be religious, and people who are poor are evil. It means that people who do not believe that the Market God and His biblical counterpart form a perfect interlocking machine that impartially sorts humanity into the deserving and undeserving are evil.  It means that anyone who believes that humanity can and should make decisions about what is good for humanity is evil.  This, of course, describes a core liberal belief.  It is also a core tenet of democracy which believes with some optimism tempered with some reasonable amount of pessimism that through discussion evil might avoided, that the common good might be found and that provision might be made for it.<br />REASON ultimately fails to do what Reich acknowledges must be done to stop the Radcon threat to American society: light a fire in the reader, a burning, all consuming fire of commitment to the tenets of liberalism that surpasses the absolutist Manichean view of the Radcon.  Unfortunately, Reich's belief in and reliance on reason is exactly why traditional liberalism is fast disappearing as a viable political philosophy in these United States.  Reason, at its heart is merely reasonable and as such is a weak argument against the overwhelming moral absolutes of the Market God,the other God, and their handservants, dissembling and deception.  In this contest, REASON is overmatched, overwhelmed and overturned.  When the liberal says \\"let us reason together,\\" the Radcon cries \\"60s radicals almost destroyed this country, and you're just like them!\\"<br />Still, perhaps there is hope for Reich's cause.  In books like REASON and MORE EQUAL THAN OTHERS (by Godfrey Hodgson) one can begin to see a slow recovery of Liberalism's strength, i.e., its coherent philosophy of equality and justice and its abiding belief that man is more or less good, and capable of doing good through institutions in addition to churches, the market and the military which are the only institutions the Radcons endorse even as they have taken over the government, the one institution which is intended to be by the people, of the people and for the people, and which in the Radcon view is responsible for much of the evil in the world.  Through such books, liberalism's condition has perhaps been stabilized.   What is necessary now is a bold new prescription, a prescription building on a new COMMON SENSE, one that will cleanse and bind up the many wounds the Radcons have inflicted upon the American body politic, that will contain a message of hope and freedom that will lift its spirit, arm it properly against its powerful foes, and send it marching bravely into battle against this terrifying and unreasonable enemy of democracy.	2004-05-11
US	50506686	R30AINUKXVXRX2	0691117888	530787095	More Equal Than Others: America from Nixon to the New Century (Politics and Society in Twentieth-Century America)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Ruling Class Holiday	In this densely factual and amply documented explication of the conservative counterrevolution in the U.S. over the past quarter century, Godfrey Hodgson demonstrates how this brew of Christian cowboy populism and free market absolutism has undermined the United States' historically tolerant, egalitarian culture, installing in its place an unnatural system where the measure of every person, every motive and every institution is the dollar almighty. <br />Full of counterexamples to the works of conservative think tanks, Hodgson deftly explodes the many myths manufactured by this melange of Ayn Rand \\"objectivists,' neo-liberal economists and reactionary sociologists.  He shows, for example, how these apparatchiki provide the justifications and tools to blame and marginalize the poor for their poverty and non-whites for their non-whiteness.  He also shows how as part of these efforts the think tankerites have used the 'objectivity' credo of journalism to insert erroneous, vicious \\"facts\\" into the so-called marketplace of ideas, e.g., that the U.S. is much \\"freer\\" in terms of economic mobility between the classes, a mobility created and supported by free-market capitalism.  Hodgson shows this story, often used to justify the global spread of American capitalism is a patent falsehood.  <br />Citing a study of the top 16 industrialized nations, including, of course, Rumsfeld's \\"Old Europe,\\" he notes the U.S. ranks dead last in this regard.   All the right wing rhetoric is revealed as mere assertion. Hodgson shows how since  mid-century the conservative ideology has replaced the liberal consensus and turned the U.S. into an increasingly brittle oligarchy whose citizens are now more polarized and class-bound than citizens in those countries America rebuilt after WWII. As Hodgson notes toward the end of MORE EQUAL THAN OTHERS: \\"Over the twelve years of Republican occupancy of the White House, from 1981 to 1993, the median American wage earner's income fell by 5 percent in real terms.  The income of the top 5 percent of taxpayers rose by 30 percent, while the income of the top 1 percent rose by 78 percent. Inequality reigned\\" (page 291).  Hodgson further contends the polarization is evident in a two party system that once sought consensus but is divided with one party now clearly aligned with the haves against the have-nots.<br />Again, in Hodgson's words: \\"The politics of the past quarter century have been dominated by the reaction against the idea of a Great Society.  There has been a racial dimension to this shift.  There have been other dimensions, too: anger at American humiliations abroad; disgust at perceived moral decline, especially in sexual behavior and in the family: resentment of taxation, inflation, and economic change generally.  All of this added up, a little perversely, to a rejection of government as the instrument of democracy and the elevation of unregulated free-market capitalism to share democracy's throne at the apex of the American system of belief.  (Perversely, because if government failed to win all of its battles against communism in the Third World, free markets were hardly likely to have proved more successful; neither the Coca-Cola Corporation nor Disney was equipped to have won the battle of Ap Bac [in Vietnam] or rescue the Tehran hostages.  Perversely, too, because the \\"social issues\\" were scarcely the fault of government: if anything, they should be blamed on the market capitalism in the shape of Hollywood, Madison Avenue, and the entertainment industry\\" (pg. 291).<br />Hodgson is clearly upset at what has happened over the past few decades in the U.S.   A transplanted Englishman who has spent a good deal of his life in the States, he asks us to recall the real American virtues: a relatively classless society, an optimistic and charitable national spirit.  To his mind, the racialized rhetoric of the deserving and the undeserving has no place in this shining city upon the hill.  In the past, he notes, the wealthy may have \\"dined on gold plates\\" and collected priceless artworks, but they also kept quiet about their luxurious lives, observing of the egalitarian credo that to do otherwise would be to ape the behavior of the royalist or aristocrat.  Now millionaire populism has swept over the land and the true republican American value of classless civil interaction has been turned on its head -- quoting Rush Limbaugh in this regard: \\"Do you realize that if wealthy people are not secure in the enjoyment of their property rights, no one is?\\" (From Limbaugh's \\"See, I Told You So,\\" pg. 314).  Hodgson would argue that the security of a wealthy elite has been the driving force of this anti-American  counterrevolution, a movement which has sought to force-feed contingency and insecurity to those citizens not fortunate enough to have been born or to have otherwise become (a rare phenomenon according to Hodgson) a member of the new ruling class.	2004-05-01
US	50506686	RSCCE5HJTVG8G	1400040949	788802096	The Anatomy of Fascism	Books	5	157	167	N	N	Whose Reich Is It Anyway?	The Marquis de Morés, returning to 1890s Paris after his cattle ranching venture in North Dakota failed, recruited a gang of men from the Parisian cattle yards as muscle for his  \\"national socialism\\" project -- a term Paxton credits Morés' contemporary Maurice Barres, a French nationalist author, with coining. Morés' project was potent and prophetic: his national socialism was a mixture of anti-capitalism and anti-Semitism.   He clothed his men in what must have been the first fascist uniform in Europe  --  ten-gallon hats and cowboy garb, frontier clothes he'd taken a shine to in the American West.  (Author Paxton suggests the first ever fascist get-up was the KKKs white sheet and pointy hat).   Morés killed a French Jewish officer in a duel during the Dreyfus affair and later was killed in the Sahara by his guides during his quest to unite France to Islam to Spain.  Morés had earlier proclaimed:  \\"Life is valuable only through action.  So much the worse if the action is mortal.\\"   <br />Here assembled together are all of the elements of what Paxton would classify as first stage fascism: \\"the creation of a movement.\\"  Most fascist movements stall in this first stage he notes -- think, for instance, of the skinheads, the American Nazi Party and Posse Comitatus.  Paxton's other stages are 2) the rooting of the movement in the political system; 3) the seizure of power; 4) the exercise of power; and 5) the duration of power, during which the regime chooses either radicalization or entropy.  He notes that although each stage \\"is a prerequisite for the next, nothing requires a fascist movement to complete all of them, or even to move in only one direction.  The five stages permit plausible comparison between movements and regimes at equivalent degrees of development.  It helps us see that fascism, far from static, was a succession of processes and choices: seeking a following, forming alliances, bidding for power, then exercising it.   That is why the conceptual tools that illuminate one stage may not necessarily work equally well for others.\\" pg. 23. <br />Paxton also tentatively offers a definition of fascism, but only after tracing the rise of various movements from their beginnings in the 19th century through the present day.  Other historians and philosophers, he suggests, have written brilliantly on fascism, but have failed to recognize that their analyses apply to only one stage or another.  He also notes that often definitions of fascism are based on fascist writings; he maintains that fascist writings while valuable were often written as justification for the seizure of power, or the attempted seizure, and that what fascists actually did and do is more critical to understanding these movements.  Indeed, the language of fascism has changed little since the days of the Marquis De Mores. <br />He hesitates in offering both his definition and his analytical stages, saying that he knows by doing so he risks falling into the nominalism of the \\"bestiary.\\"  He demonstrates that this is a common failing of definitions of fascism which are often incomplete or muddled as they typically describe only one or two typically late stages.  Other historians, for instance, split fascism into Nazism or Italian fascism, avoiding the problem of understanding their common elements by concentrating on their differences, insisting that they are incommensurable.  Finally in the last pages, Paxton offers up this fairly comprehensive and useful definition: \\"Fascism may be defined as a form of political behavior marked by obsessive preoccupation with community decline, humiliation, or victimhood and by compensatory cults of unity, energy and purity, in which a mass-based party of committed nationalist militants, working in uneasy but effective collaboration with traditional elites, abandons democratic liberties and pursues with redemptive violence and without ethical or legal restraints goals of internal cleansing and external expansion.\\"<BR>  <BR>Paxton is particularly strong in showing how the circumstances in post WWI Germany and Italy -- the demobilized mobs of young soldiers, sent to war by elites who had no conception of the destruction and suffering they had unleashed upon the younger generation -- were ripe for fascism's appeals.  For many, liberalism, conservatism and socialism all seemed equally complicit in the crack-up of Europe in the Great War.  Fascism, rising from the ashes, employed the socialistic tools of mass marches, the military techniques of terror learned in the war, and as they gained power, the new tools of mass communication and propaganda developed in the US during WWI.  Fascists also reacted astutely to public discomfort toward the mass migrations from southern and eastern Europe coming in the wake of political and economic distress in those regions, using that fear to increase their power through scapegoating and its attendant rhetoric of purity.  <br />Fascism is both charged and blurry word these days, used by both the left and the right to assail their critics and enemies.  The Nazi remains the evildoer par excellence in popular and political culture, invoked for a thrill of fear or the disciplinary scare or emotional incitement. In this masterful synthesis of writings in politics, history, philosophy and sociology, Paxton untangles the vast literature fascism has generated, establishes some essential ground rules for coming to grips with its many expressions, stages, and manifestations, and clears a space for further, better focused research.  Although academic in its orientation, it is well and clearly written.  Finally, for the reader who is not familiar with modern European history, it is a very useful and informative text as it takes into its scope by necessity much of European and American history over the past one hundred years.   Absolutely required reading.	2004-05-01
US	50506686	R1MXO0WUYAXM3F	1400061644	454274354	A Chance Meeting: Intertwined Lives of American Writers and Artists, 1854-1967	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Geneaology of Genuis	Welcome to an astonishing new literary form -- an interlocking \\"family tree\\" of American writers, poets, photographers, musicians, editors, and critics that is part literary gossip, part biography, part cultural history, history of ideas, and, finally an unexpectedly moving elegy of a vanished era whose echoes still sound in our own.  <br />A CHANCE MEETING recounts, elaborates and meditates upon the personal connectedness of some of America's greatest artists, connections which range from correspondences and friendships that last more than 40 years (William Dean Howells with Mark Twain and Henry James) or chance meetings which go no further (William Dean Howells and Walt Whitman's meeting at Pfaff's on Broadway in 1850s and once more during Whitman's last years).  Starting with its headwaters in Whitman and Hawthorne, Cohen takes us on a voyage down the grand stream of American artistic and literary life, down thickening tributaries unleashed by Henry James and Twain, the shifting crosscurrents of activist W.E.B. DuBois and modernist Gertrude Stein (both students of William James), down new streams from Sarah Orne Jewett and contemporaries Hart Crane, Hurston, Hughes, and Baldwin.  She brings in also the rich poetic and artistic contributions of Robert Lowell, Marianne Moore, Joseph Cornell, Elizabeth Bishop.  Key networkers and artists include photographers Matthew Brady, Stieglitz, Steichen, and Avedon, the insightful and supportive critic from the New York Times, Carl Van Vechten, the brilliant Marcel Duchamp - and this list is nowhere near exhaustive.<br />Henry James once said there is not one but a million windows in the house of fiction. What A CHANCE MEETING remarkably gives us at the end of the journey is the news of the goings on inside that great house, the rivalries, the disagreements, the love affairs, broken friendships, feuds, reconciliations, but most importantly and persistently, the long, looping intimate conversation that flows through and bindstogether these generations of American artistic life.  In so doing, Cohen examines obliquely the alterations in the reportage on the American character, the re-examination of the American character in each generation, revisions which never lose sight of the conversations that have gone before.  Profound and playful, Cohen takes some imaginative risks that might unsettle those with strict ideas of what is acceptably told as history. In this regard, Cohen quoting James' insight that Americans have trouble \\"seeing through to the reality of others\\" is appropriate: Cohen can and does see through to the reality of these most remarkable others, and we are much the richer for her wise and stylish audacity.	2004-03-10
US	50506686	R1QCYCHTQWB6K9	0375506241	737818210	A Scream Goes Through the House: What Literature Teaches Us About Life	Books	5	41	43	N	N	Modernity and the Doom of Consciousness	As a real fan of Arnold Weinstein's terrific lectures on both American and World Literature (from the Teaching Company, but which I borrow from my library), I had high expectations for this book.  My expectations were exceeded.  That's because in the lectures, Dr. Weinstein focuses almost exclusively on literature.  That's not a bad thing.  It's a solid traditional approach.  But in this text he is also free to draw in art, theater and film where appropriate, and to treat his material thematically, instead of on a book by book basis, a practice which tends to marginalize overall thematic observations.  Also, in this format Dr. Weinstein can engage in digressions, and not worry about taking up too much time doing so, as he might in a lecture situation.  <br />Here's an example of a short digression that I found particularly insightful: \\"One of the ironies of modern culture is its peculiar treatment of high art.  Either we subject it to the rigors of modern critical theory, so as to disclose the hidden ideological arrangements it contains; or we piously commit it to the scholar's care, with the implicit view that we \\"laypeople\\" do not have the tools of access to frequent such work with any degree of profit.  It would be better if we taught our students to view all art as fair game, to approach the most formidable and hermetic works as an aspiring thief might; with intent to break and enter, to discover, steal and possess what is there.\\"   Page 334.<br />Summarizing his insights at the end of this highly engaging text, he meditates on the tragedy of modernity, which he sees as a surfeit of consciousness combined with a lack of human connection.  Weinstein illustrates this observation most dramatically through Faulkner's Quentin Compson.  First, he cites Robert Penn Warren as having gotten it right when he said that it is not that Quentin suffers from a consciousness of doom, but rather the doom of consciousness.  Hamlet was perhaps the first hyperconscious modern, andWeinstein does a fine job of showing how Hamlet and Quentin are connected, too.  <br />Implicit in this, at least in my opinion, is that hyperconsciousness has been promoted by the consumer society.  It has filled the world with things, variations of things upon things, filling up our lives with endless vexed choices and in so doing both stokes and attempts to put out the fire of hyperconsciouness.  In either case we are seduced into ignoring the fast beating heart of our own humanity as this world of things muffles the scream that goes through the house of our bodies and consciousness.	2004-02-26
US	50506686	R3NHVC5PQPN2JQ	0375706534	837021134	Life: The Movie: How Entertainment Conquered Reality	Books	4	23	23	N	N	"When I Crashed the Car It Was Just Like a Movie!"	A good, often acid analysis of  \\"entertainment state,\\" Gabler's main thesis is that under the influence of the movies and the concomitant rise of the consumptionism, we have created an entertainment state where everyone is constantly considering how their performance is going -- which amounts to a new kind of discipline as Foucauldians might say.   Further, these \\"roles\\" require props (material goods), which in turn supports the consumer society and the entertainment state at the expense of nearly everything else.  To lay the basis for his theorectical claim, he cites the early 1960s thinking on the phenomenon of celebrity and the changes it has wrought in the American psyche.  Here cites Boorstin's \\"The Image,\\" and Riesman's \\"The Lonely Crowd.\\"  But he's not averse to cites postmodernists to serve his thesis, Umberto Eco, and Baudrillard come in for brief insights, too. <br />Some might say Gabler overstates his case.  Have we really become so infused with \\"lifies\\" projected at us on a billion screens that we no longer know where we begin and where we end?  Compared to the post-mods who can't resist hyperbole and grand gestures, though, he grounds his case historically, culturally and economically.  Moving from a quick periodization of the rise of mass entertainment in the U.S. in conjunction with Jacksonian era during which elitist amusements were challanged and overthrown  -- in 1849 29 b'hoys in NYC were killed during a riot where protested the English actor MacCready's reading of Shakepeare as a disparagement of the American style of Edwin Forrest -- he shows how entertainment has always been contested terrain.  He also suggests that popular entertainment and diversion are as American as apple pie with supporting examples of the popularity of the political speech, the Great Awakenings, the Lyceum and Chatauqua. <br />Most chilling is his description of the two Americas: those who live behind the glass (TV) and those who don't, and how those who don't know thatbecause they don't live behind the glass are lesser citizens.  That people fight to obtain some type of stardom, or at the minor forms of celebrity, that CEOs now bestride the world like Hollywood stars of old, that brands now have personalities, are cited as evidence of celebritization of the world. The section of the dark side of celebrity-seeking -- e.g. Mark David Chapman, the Unabomber, and Arthur Bremer -- is effective in showing how these individuals' quest for celebrity was rewarded by the media in wall to wall coverage.  The slippage of mainstream media into the gutter once occupied by the tabliods is also of related interest, though it cites the usual examples: e.g. Gary Hart, Monica, O.J. <br />Gabler's larger point is that all these \\"lifies\\" take up space in our collective consciousness, that they distract us, circumscribe our lives by setting norms, casting us in roles, and both limit and expand whom we might be and how we might behave: the affable talk show host, the news anchor, the family man, etc.  These norms and role models now live behind the screen, he says.  There is no \\"backstage\\" where we think our private thoughts and a \\"frontstage\\" where we interact with the world.  It's all \\"frontstage.\\"  Observe an average Californian for awhile, he suggests.  Steeped in movie and entertainment culture, they have no \\"backstage.\\" <br />Gabler cites evidence that those who have ability to positively delude themselves, to \\"act\\" as if they are the center of our own postively scripted, headed- toward-a-happy-ending movie, do better in their lives and occupations.  He notes that Prozac's popularity may be connected with this phenomenon.   All in all a good, solid, and dare it be said, \\"entertaining\\" book.	2004-02-05
US	50506686	R251RHU85GQ7HT	1565847709	706360630	After the New Economy	Books	5	16	20	N	N	When the Whip Comes Down	For years, Doug Henwood's newsletter -- \\"Left Business Observer\\" -- has served as a corrective to the triumphalist nonsense that passes for business journalism in the U.S., (and just about everywhere else for that matter). Now, with AFTER THE NEW ECONOMY, Henwood, pithily exposes the flashy mummery behind the bubble economy of the late 90s. <br />Henwood's particularly good on the years leading up to the boom.  He shows how the New Economy was whipped to a high froth with profits expropriated from American in the preceding two decades. Here's Henwood in his own words on the subject: \\"It's not hard to figure out what caused the fifteen-year profit boom (in the 80s and 90s) -- a reversal of the forces that produced the sixteen-year bust that preceded it.  The conventional story is that excessively stimulative and indulgent government policies led to a great inflation, compounded by the oil-price shocks of 1973 and 1979.\\" (Pg. 204) <br />\\"There's some truth to the standard story, but it also needs to be translated into political language.  The long post-World War II boom had fed the expansion of the welfare state.  The sting of unemployment was lessened and workers became progressively less docile.  Wildcat strikes were spreading and factory workers were smoking pot on breaks and sabotaging the line.  Internationally, the U.S. had lost the Vietnam ware and discovered that is conscript army was an undisciplined horde that was not shy about shooting commanding officers.  The Third World was in broad rebellion, demanding global wealth redistribution and a new world economic order, a point that OPEC made forcefully in 1973 and 1979\\" (Pg. 204).<br />Henwood notes that it was at this time that the conservative movement, which had been fairly quiescent in the 50s and 60s, gained a new impetus as the ruling class began to feel the pinch and search around for an ideological tool to stem the rising democratic tide. It came to a head when the top 1% which had traditionally controlled about 40% of the wealth in the United States found their share reduced to approximately 20% in the early 70s (Pg. 121). The counterrevolution began in earnest. It was then that the Chicago School boys sharpened their neo-liberal apologia for capitalism, and their retooled 19th century theories were embraced by the denizens of the Business Roundtable, their friends in the Treasury Department and the White House.  And so, in Henwood's words \\"...through benefit cutbacks by employers, outsourcing, speedup, permanent downsizing, cutbacks in regulation, the central-bank-led class war succeeded in more than doubling the profit rate for nonfinancial corporations between 1982 and 1997\\" (pg. 210).<br />Henwood is a numbers guy, and he uses them to debunk the capitalism's cheerleaders as well as its undisciplined detractors. Particularly refreshing is his analysis of the wooly-headed maunderings of the weird left who wish the turn the clock back to some imaginary proto-capitalist time where the nation state was the beneficent conduit of citizen's wishes and cultures were seamless, nurturing and healthy. These ideologues, he notes, are more than matched by those idealist economists who posit the existence of a perfect economic machine that someday (once the distortions of governments and people are eliminated) will bring forth a new millenium. <br />Henwood knows every move of that great unregenerate beast, and shows how it grows more red in tooth and claw with every upper-class tax cut, every gutted education and healthcare program, every downsized and rightsized American worker.  Yet, admirably, in the midst of all the darkness, Henwood strikes sparks of furious, wicked laughter.	2004-01-25
US	50506686	R1CMKG439NTOP6	0805044566	708715465	The Unconquerable World: Power, Nonviolence, and the Will of the People	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Power In The People	Schell's identification of the phenomenon of \\"people's war,\\" the<BR>bottom-up fight for freedom waged by colonized peoples over the last 250<BR>years is nothing short of revolutionary. The basis of the analytical framework he builds to explicate the different varieties of colonial oppression and local resistance, Schell historicizes people's war in its most important incarnations starting with the Spanish resistance to Napoleon's invasion, moving through Gandhi's non-violent formulation which he developed in South Africa and employed against the British in India, discussing how this form of resistance taken up by Martin Luther King to fight the people's war against the squalid Jim Crow regime in the American South.  He notes that over time, \\"people's war\\" has been successful more often than it has not, that colonial regimes cannot win against forces which refuse to fight using oppressor's tactics, or use the narrow forms of redress, such as \\"working through the system,\\" which are offered by those in power under the head of democracy.  <br />He begins by examining the great military strategist Von Clausewitz's theory of warfare.  In a section that it perhaps somewhat overlong, Schell takes apart Clausewitz in light of the changes in warfare since Clausewitz's time.  Clausewitz did witness the first examples of total war in which every citizen was enlisted in the war as either a soldier or as a possible target of war -- the great \\"democratic\\" army of Napoleon, and wrote about it in contrast to prior European wars where relatively small forces of men fought limited conflicts for their aristocratic masters.  What Clausewitz could not see was that with the emergence of the atomic bomb, total war was extended beyond competing nations, their peoples and ideologies, to include the entire world and the possible destruction of humanity.  He notes, as does Jeremi Suri does in his history of the post-nuclear age, POWER AND THE PEOPLE, that the possession of nuclear weapons andthe protests such weapons engendered (including the proxy wars fought by client states which became a feature of the post WWII landscape and were much more likely to end a global conflagration than skirmishes before the bomb) ultimately served to push together the Soviet Union and United States out of fear of their own people.<br />Schell also discusses various theories of power, including the Hobbesian justification of power, the Weberian observation that the state holds power by reserving the right to violence.  He upends a lot of this theory by noting that fear and intimidation only work for so long. Eventually people begin, like water freezing in a crack in the sidewalk, to break apart the structures of such regimes.  He discusses how Vaclav Havel and his friends during the Soviet occupation initiated a small scale alternative \\"government\\" which sought to deliver minimal social goods, a stop that worked to give citizens a way to see they could exert control over their own lives even in the shadow of the totalitarian state. This strategy that has been used since the American elite formed the Committees of Correspondence and the Continental Congress to throw off the oppressive economic policies of their colonial masters.  The \\"people's government\\" was in place and thus Washington's task was to outlast his opponents so that this government could take its rightful place -- a strategy which has been used in successful \\"people's war\\" ever since.  Once the state is made irrelevant, it ceases to exist, an analysis growing out of Hannah Arendt's discussions of power.<br />It is hard to do justice to a work like this in a short review. Schell advances a fairly radical theory here, but his evidence is sound, his argument is clear and straightforward (although a bit repetitive).  Perhaps most compelling in this age of \\"terror,\\" Schell helps us see that resistance against colonial powers and homegrown totalitarian regimes has a long history, and that for the most part, thatpeople's war has been successful.	2004-01-17
US	50506686	R27M3UVX1CLHBB	1565848071	809863654	A People's History of the Vietnam War	Books	5	24	31	N	N	Making Sense of Vietnam	Using a Marxist class perspective, Neale makes sense of the post WWII history of Vietnam in all its complexity.  In fact, having read Neale's history, the standard nationalist histories which insist on nation states as the central actors, seem not just inadequate, but misleading.  By emphasizing the clash of Vietnam's many masters and would-be masters, both colonial and local, including Asians -- Japanese and Chinese -- French, and U.S., Neale gives us compelling and instructive insights into time and a place that is now remebered by most Americans as the first war the U.S. ever lost, a war that created a syndrome that could only be overcome by winning the first Gulf War.  Particularly good on how the French colonists and the Vietnamese landlord class ruled amicably for a number of years, the insurgence of the Marxist inspired North Vietnamese, followed by the arrival of the U.S. to prop up the French Catholic Vietnamese dictatorship in the name of global anti-communism.  An excellent and even awesome achievment.	2004-01-16
US	50506686	R2FTAMOEWSG5W2	0226876071	498454983	Rough Rider in the White House: Theodore Roosevelt and the Politics of Desire	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Cowboy Soldier Sets The Stage	In ROUGH RIDER IN THE WHITE HOUSE Sarah Watts unravels the contradictory strands of Theodore Roosevelt's character, a character forged at the first flexing of America's imperial muscle, and in so doing uncovers the roots of the United States' bipolar political discourse of the twentieth century. She amply proves her thesis that \\"Although Roosevelt was progressive and optimistic his political vision encompassed his darker, emotional, anti-liberal worldview of men and nations struggling against the forces of evil\\" (page 2).<br />This political vision would serve, and to an unlikely extent, still serves as America's domestic and foreign policy, she suggests.  Watts makes this argument implicitly throughout most of the work, however, late in the book she does allow this ghost assertion to manifest itself:  \\"For the remainder of the twentieth century, modernism continued to deprived men of viable lives and to force them into compromises that many consider feminizing and emasculating.  As the middle class searched for meaning in a world of bureaucracy and consumerism, and as purchasing power and real wages began their long decline after 1972, men still needed a muscular proving ground on which to inscribe their anti-modern revolt, and the appeal of violence on an official level never diminshed\\" (page 240).<br />Indeed, she suggests that the conservative backlash of the past 25 years has borrowed much of the bellicose rhetoric and militaristic ethos of Roosevelt, as well as the sorting of citizens into the deserving and undeserving groups by wealth, ethnic and racial background, and social position.  As Watts says with respect to non-white, non Anglo-Saxon males, \\"Roosevelt's exclusionary language had helped to create an intolerant social milieu and a punitive psychological one\\" (page 240). As Watt's points out, \\"(Roosevelt's) vision of manhood rested on the notion of a once strong, but now fragile and ever weakening male self, a notion that arose from his own emotional preoccupations, particularly his disgust for his own and other men's physical inferiority, his pervasive sexual priggishness, his anxiety about future sexual and racial degeneracy, and his fears of an interior cowardice that might be exposed to the outside world\\" (page 4).  And, further, she notes that \\"Throughout his life, Roosevelt met every appearance of this weakened self with aggressive disciplines and punishments,\\" and that \\"\\"No matter how he toughened himself, however, he could not escape living in a Victorian world in which normalcy was at stake and monstrosity was everywhere\\" (page 4-5).  This Victorian world, she claims, has been recently been resuscitated as a political dreamspace in our political discourse.<br />Watts clearly shows that \\"Roosevelt was the first president to articulate the shared anxieties of his generation, and he provided its first seemingly coherent response to the current dislocations of modern society\\" (page 2).  In retrospect, the bipolar extremes that Roosevelt practiced as the embodiment of its new \\"manifest destiny,\\" from gentleman Patroon and cowboy soldier, now seem so extreme that they could not have co-existed in one man.  Indeed most modern biographers have difficulty explaining these extremes and tend to focus on one side or the other.  And so most accounts are usually are just recitations of his activities, while this most contradictory of all presidents, who led us out of the era of the frontier and into the American Century seems lost to our comprehension.  Watts makes TR make sense because her contextualization of his life in his times is completely convincing.  Excellent illustrations.preoccupations, particularly his disgust for his own and other men's physical inferiority, his pervasive sexual priggishness, his anxiety about future sexual and racial degeneracy, and his fears of an interior cowardice that might be exposed to the outside world\\" (page 4).  And, further, she notes that \\"Throughout his life, Roosevelt met every appearance of this weakened self with aggressive disciplines and punishments,\\" and that \\"\\"No matter how he toughened himself, however, he could not escape living in a Victorian world in which normalcy was at stake and monstrosity was everywhere\\" (page 4-5).  This Victorian world, she claims, has been recently been resuscitated as a political dreamspace in our political discourse. <br />Watts clearly shows that \\"Roosevelt was the first president to articulate the shared anxieties of his generation, and he provided its first seemingly coherent response to the current dislocations of modern society\\" (page 2).  In retrospect, the bipolar extremes that Roosevelt practiced as the embodiment of its new \\"manifest destiny,\\" from gentleman Patroon and cowboy soldier, now seem so extreme that they could not have co-existed in one man.  Indeed most modern biographers have difficulty explaining these extremes and tend to focus on one side or the other.  And so most accounts are usually are just recitations of his activities, while this most contradictory of all presidents, who led us out of the era of the frontier and into the American Century seems lost to our comprehension.  Watts makes TR make sense because her contextualization of his life in his times is completely convincing.  Excellent illustrations.	2003-12-11
US	50506686	R2ZNPFOG8WFKOZ	0375414169	819323264	Reading New York	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not Just for New Yorkers	This book is a rare gift: the work of a truly thoughtful reader and a terrific writer.  Of the New York writers whom Tytell treats, he does a particularly excellent job on Melville, although his readings of Poe, the Henry's (Miller and James), Whitman and Kerouac are marvelous, too.  Perhaps it's because he began reading Melville against his eye doctor's orders during an illness when he was 12 (reading in general not just Melville), that his recreations of and commentary on Melville's \\"Billy Budd,\\" \\"Benito Cereno\\" and \\"Bartleby\\" seem the most deeply felt. <br />In any case, Tytell's \\"dialogue\\" throughout his life with these New York writers is what makes this work truly memorable.  He notes that he seemed to find each writer just as his life began to open up to the possibilities of the worlds they described: Poe in late adolescence when life can seem particularly fraught and frightening; followed by Whitman and then Miller in conjunction with his burgeoning sexuality in his later teens; followed by James as he became more sensible of James' place in the academy (James was a writer who he sensibly chose to study as a prelude to getting his Ph.D as opposed to Miller), and then, as he became radicalized in the 60s, the work of the Beats, primarily Kerouac and Ginsberg.<br />He does a great job on each writer's bio: succint but always relevant, and always a telling detail that you probably have not encountered elsewhere.  Tytell's command of this material is always impressive, his judgments fair, and his style always engaging.  And we meet a number of literary folks face to face: the abovementioned beats, but also Leon Edel, James' biographer and Tytell's teacher, and some other remarkable New Yorkers such as his immigrant family, denizens of the New York diamond market, various lovers and friends.  And of course, there's New York which also plays a central character in this warm and often piquant work of memory and criticism.	2003-12-05
US	50506686	R12P02YK8W065K	0375756566	316489894	Austerlitz (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Resurrection	AUSTERLITZ is an oblique and terrifying journey into the machinery of the Nazi death state.  Its true subject becomes apparent only slowly; and as such one could say that the narrative strategy mimics and comments upon the slow unfolding of the grotesque design of the Nazis, of the diabolical destruction of European Jewry as a means to world domination...   Poised in the realm of remembrance and loss, this astounding work of literature seeks through Austerlitz to show how the grotesque brutality and vicious efficiency of the Nazi regime continues to reverberate throughout time and space.  Brilliant.	2003-11-27
US	50506686	R1A2VVCYC3IQ1S	0520229851	584558835	Shooting Kennedy: JFK and the Culture of Images	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Camelot Rewritten	Of the books that have been published on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the Kennedy assassination on display in my local bookstore, which include memorial editions of LIFE and LOOK magazine that compile all the iconic photos of that time (and sponsored by the History Channel in one case), SHOOTING KENNEDY is a bracing antidote to the lachrymose nonsense posing as historical insight and edifying remembrance that litter the publishing landscape.<br />In SHOOTING KENNEDY, Lubin employs a process that in post-modern cultural critique has become the prevailing strategy: the Dadaist practice of placing on the dissection table the sewing machine and the umbrella and reporting on their encounter.  SHOOTING KENNEDY may, thus, for some readers, seem a bizarre and desacralizing example of the kind of \\"relativistic\\" post-modern cultural criticism that upends and sabotages the \\"milestone event\\" narrations of history by treating everything as a cultural text, everything as grist for the cultural critique mill.   <br />As an example of this technique, Lubin, late in the book, examines a LIFE magazine spread showing a liquor ad featuring a dandy tipping his hat in salute on the page facing the famous photo of John John's salute of his father's passing coffin.  He then offers a disquisition on the suggested birth of the salute in the era of the knight errant, who it is believed, lifted up the visor on his helmet to show another knight his eyes to show he intended  no harm.  He then goes on to discuss the notion of Camelot as a metaphor for the Kennedy presidency, and then ties in JFK's boyhood reading during his sickly childhood of romantic tales of knighthood by Sir Walter Scott and others. <br />To the average reader of political history, this will seem an inappropriate invasion of one discipline into the precincts of another --  in this case materials of history and politics examined with theories and tools of art criticism. The similarities Lubin finds between notable paintings from the Western canon and news photos of the Kennedy's and JFK's assassination will seem superfluous, beside the point.  So will the parallels he finds between the structure of the Zapruder film and the standard Hollywood movie both now and then. Average readers will be more comfortable with coincidence as the principle behind the suggestive links he finds in history and art,(e.g., Oswald jumping onto the stage in the Dallas movie theater where he sought to hide from the police, John Wilkes Booth jumping onto the stage of the Ford Theater after shooting Lincoln, the Nazi villain in Lubitsch¹s \\"To Be or Not to Be\\" being chased onto the stage before being captured and killed), and less comfortable with the idea that life and art are inseparable and dialogic.  This approach may seem destabilizing and even decadent.  Lubin admits as much.  Indeed, he often recognizes that his approach may serve to cast dirt on the icons whose images and histories he examines.  He explains that this is not his intent; one's reaction will depend entirely upon whether mentioning Camelot and the Beverly Hillbillies in the same breath seems appropriate.<br />The post-modern argument has come to prevail in the academy, although in fact it was never really all that radical a position to begin with: reasonable readers of history always recognized that whatever claims to the contrary, historians came to their work with agendas (even \\"objectivity\\" is an agenda).  Historians, like art historians and art critics develop followings depending on both their skills as a storyteller as well as by how well they support their version of history in their selection of and retelling of facts.  In both cases, what emerges always is the sensibility of the critic.  There are schools of history in the same way there are schools of art and art criticism.<br />Still, even accepting the post-modern notions of the text, Lubin's selection of facts and materials has something of the magpie about it -- meaning that his choices, while mostly hits are occasional misses.   For instance, how relevant is it that Marat's assassin was the same age as Lee Harvey Oswald?   This \\"insight\\" is one of those stray facts that pose as enlightening but are not.   It is the same kind of quasi-fascinating fact that conspiracy theorists yoke together in their fantastic farragoes.  Incidentally, Lubin does an excellent job on the cultural output of these re-writers of the circumstances of the assassination.  He takes no sides, he only examines their output in conjunction with that of other forms of reportage, history and journalism.<br />Altogether an illuminating, creative, and corrective work of criticism.	2003-11-26
US	50506686	R2ZGS6GXCAMB8V	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Wine Dark Buick	MIDDLESEX is the social novel par excellence, a multigenerational family epic, a comic Bildungsroman, a picaresque novel, and ultimately a profound meditation on the nature of identity, and specifically Greek identity.   Perhaps the most compelling parts of the novel are the descriptions of the Stephanides' family's struggle in Detroit to realize the American Dream in the midst of the violent social ferment of the 60s, and prior to the that, in the vast industrializing juggernaut of the automobile industry in Detroit.  So rich in its conception, so right in it choices, so dead-on in its characterizations, and so accurate in its observations, MIDDLESEX tells us more about the 60s and 70s than any sociologist or cultural critic could ever hope to.	2003-11-25
US	50506686	R1JD3CYDK8Y23K	0333900812	451433368	The Story of American Freedom: The Reality and the Mythic Ideal	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Free and the Unfree	Eric Foner's THE STORY OF AMERICAN FREEDOM traces the shifting meanings and practices of freedom thorough American history.  As Foner notes, \\"A morally charged idea, freedom has been used to convey and claim legitimacy for all kids of grievances and hopes, fears about the present and visions of the future.\\"<br />His approach to the history of freedom revolves around three interrelated themes: \\"the meanings of freedom; the social conditions that make it possible; and the boundaries of freedom -- the definition, that is of who is entitled to enjoy it.\\"  With respect to the first theme he starts with American Revolution where freedom was equated with a community's right to self-determination.  He notes that in \\"the post-revolutionary period, political democracy...became central to the meaning of freedom, and it was in the language of freedom that excluded groups that claimed the right to vote.  Even today, when more privatized meanings prevail, the idea of freedom as active engagement in public life has not entirely disappeared from our political culture.\\"   With respect to the notion of non-interference in the lives of its citizens, Foner writer: \\"governmental power has been seen by some Americans as a danger to liberty, and by others as a means toward what John Dewey called 'effective freedom'-- the ability to shape the institutions that determined the lineaments of freedom. Another dimension he explores is economic freedom tracing the idea of economic autonomy enshrined in early America in the idea of the small producer, and then the notion of \\"free labor.\\"  As Foner notes: \\"As the industrial economy matured and the goal of proprietorship faded for most Americans, alliterative definitions of economic freedom came to the fore: 'liberty of contract' in the Gilded Age; 'industrial freedom' (a say in corporate decisionmaking) in the Progressive era; economic security during the New Deal, and more recently the ability to partake of mass consumption within a market economy.\\"<br />With respect to the second theme, the social conditions that make it possible, Foner suggests that Americans \\"have identified as obstacles to the enjoyment of individual freedom governmental authority, social pressures for conformity, bureaucratic institutions, 'private' arrangements like the traditional family, and concentrated economic power.\\"   Further he goes on to note that even \\"those who adopt a purely 'negative' view of freedom as the absence of external coercion, rather than, for example, economic autonomy or political empowerment, must identify what constitutes illegitimate coercion.\\"  In the antebellum era, influenced by Jefferson and other political thinkers such as Locke, ownership of property was seen as an essential condition to political autonomy, while in the 20th century \\"feminists sought to recast gender relations in order to afford women the same freedom as men, and Americans divided over whether poverty and lack of economic security should be seen as deprivations of freedom that the government had an obligation to alleviate.\\" <br />With respect to the third theme, the picture of the battleground for the meaning of freedom is complete--the definition of those entitled to enjoy its blessings.  Here he notes that the Founding Fathers were not the authors of the universalistic American Creed, Gunnar Myrdal's name for \\"a belief in the essential dignity of all human beings and their inalienable right to democracy, liberty and equal opportunity.\\"  Rather it was the abolitionists who fought to extend liberty to compass blacks, slave and free.  Similarly, women seized upon the rhetoric of democratic freedom to demand the right to vote; and immigrant groups who insisted that nativity and culture ought not to form the boundaries of exclusion.\\"<br />Foner tells us that the title of the book is meant to be \\"ambiguous or ironic,\\" even postmodern.  Noting that over the course of our history, \\"American freedom has been both a reality and a mythical ideal -- a living truth for millions of Americans; a cruel mockery for others,\\" Foner shows in this engaging and insightful history the struggle to create, reinstate and elborate the meaning of this most cherished of American ideals.  The past 30 years or so,  Foner notes the word's meaning has more and more controlled by conservatives in service of capitalism, or as this group tendentiously came to define it, the \\"free-enterprise\\" system.  Foner notes that while in office Ronald Reagan used the word freedom more than any other American president.  It was this redefinition of freedom that has redrawn the  boundaries with respect to which groups are worthy of freedom and to castigate those who fail to take advantage of the opportunity to freely contract with employers, that has reset the clock to the predatory anti-labor, pro-business  era prior to the New Deal.  Calvin Coolidge's reductive tautology -- \\"The chief business of the American people is business\\" -- has once again come to define the true meaning the American Creed.	2003-10-31
US	50506686	RJNLYP4OM0MP	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Once There Were Wars; Now Only Conflicts	Profane, outrageous, sick, bitter, vomitous, grotesque, ruthlessly honest, scathingly funny  -- this has the stink of war leaking out of its binding.  Combining a nearly faultless storytelling strategy with piercing insight and no-holds barred reportage, Swofford relentlessly draws the reader into his desperate tale of gathering despair with precisely timed shocks, strategic backcasting and foreshadowing to rachet up the tension until the final explosion of war.   A writer with a gift for the well-honed description -- his description of the smell of death is the best I've ever read: \\"the hollow smell of death\\" -- as well as the ability to artfully render conversation -- wild, outrageous profanity in particular -- Swofford also obviously labored over JARHEAD for years, honing to just the right edge of gut-wrenching bleakness, cynicism and compassion.<br />A few examples.  Keenly observant, Swofford knows as soon as he lands in Saudi Arabia for the Gulf War that he's just a chump who's working for Cheney and his pals, happy to fight and even die for a few cheap medals and ribbons -- just like the foreign workers in Kuwait who do all the heavy lifting for their Kuwaiti masters.   He makes the startling observation that all war movies -- even the classic antiwar movies -- are underneath the proselytizing, pro-war movies for these post-modern soldiers.  For instance, when his unit is told they're going to ship out, they rent videos of Vietnam and WWII movies, drink beer for three days, butt heads, fight and wrestle, and pump themselves up with Hollywood versions of war, a version of war which Swofford comes to see has very little to say about his experience in the Gulf.<br />Swofford is the master of the bizarre vignette, the sick twist.  He tells, for instance, the story of how the Barrett .50 caliber sharpshooter rifle was introduced to his unit of sharpshooters for the Gulf War, hurried into the field after years of development.  Swofford notes that soon thereafter, this obscenely powerful weapon made bullet-proof glass in limousines and around presidential podiums obsolete, became the weapon of choice for men like Timothy McVeigh, and was the main reason why the ATF were using heavy combat vehicles when they went to arrest David Koresh.  Nothing is lost on Swofford, especially the scary and unpredictable machinations of the human heart.  His ruthless honesty about himself is almost shocking: no failure, no sore spot, no wound goes unreported or unexamined.   <br />JARHEAD is fine, important, and, especially now in the prop wash of Gulf II, a particularly necessary book.	2003-10-31
US	50506686	R1QR0BOBO75ZAQ	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	125	145	N	N	Topsy Turvy And All Too True	To read Chomsky's HEGEMONY OR SURVIVAL is to visit a world turned upside down.   A world where the characterization by U.S. elites of the 90s as the \\"decade of humanitarian intervention\\" is sharply questioned, it's also a place where interventions in the name of the \\"war on terror\\" are shown to be just the latest manifestations of an expansionist U.S. administration determined to hold onto long-range strategic imperatives, to disable rival systems and people that threaten its imperial objectives, and to strictly enforce its true animating principle -- the pro-market, anti-human ethos of the neo-liberal economic system.  In other words, it's not the fumigated middle-school version of US foreign policy offered to Americans on TV <br />Readers accustomed to the usual sycophantic justifications of U.S. foreign and policy may have a difficult time with Chomsky's remapping of recent political history.  Those on the right will reject it as a Chomskyite confabulation. Moderates will wonder why he seems to hate America so much.  Those on the left will be upset that the policies of Democrats are seen as little different from that of Republicans. Chomsky sees the two parties as nearly indistinguishable, calling them the two \\"business parties, one slightly less reactionary than the other.\\"  And here's Chomsky quoting Dewey on the narrow U.S. political spectrum.:  \\"...John Dewey scarcely exaggerated when he described politics as 'the shadow cast on society by big business.'    <br />One of his main themes is that the United States, like its imperial predecessor, Great Britain, employs an idealizing and utopian language (the language of democracy and freedom) to justify its opposition to and extirpation of any countervailing force, even those founded upon the democratic or populist impulse, e.g., Nicaragua, Guatemala.  This is not, of course, an insight original to Chomsky.  But what is so disorienting and unique about Chomsky's renarration of recent events is that he is exquisitely alive to the efforts of those in power to efface the historical record, to enforce forgetfulness and unknowing through a steady diet of fear and triumphalist propaganda.  Reinscribing history, he quotes mainstream sources, official records, military and diplomatic experts, many of whom are unsympathetic to his point of view, and builds a compelling case to support his thesis that even the \\"exceptional\\" United States unexceptionally behaves like powerful states typically do: enhancing their power through violence, and legitimizing their policies through whatever discourses are available.  And while its not original to Chomsky that absolute power corrupts absolutely, what is fine and bracing is the way he marshals legions of facts to show how those in power, unchecked in our \\"open society,\\" move to stifle or subvert the will of its citizens in favor of the money power it truly serves.  <br />One of the more memorable examples he cites in making this case is the special wrath of the present administration for \\"Old Europe\\" when it failed to march in lockstep into the war in Iraq.  Chomsky notes that, in fact, the leaders of France and Germany by refusing to along were giving voice to and representing their citizens, great majorities of whom were against the war.  He notes that the citizens of \\"New Europe\\" were even more opposed to the war than citizens of \\"Old Europe,\\" and futher, notes that public opinion polls in South America showed more opposition than \\"Old Europe,\\" too.<br />Chomsky does not simply offer a counternarrative of facts in his recovery of the historical record.  He offers insightful interpretations of facts to attack that seemingly endless supply of elite apologists who offered cool intellectual frameworks for deciding whether the war in Iraq was \\"just or unjust,\\" reminding us that their bloodless formulas fail to take into account the experience of people in the \\"New Europe\\" and South America who lived through other \\"just wars\\" and the installationof \\"democracy.\\"  He suggests that citizens of South America, are just a tad more gun shy than most of \\"Old Europe\\" after having experienced liberation at the hands of the United States in the form of secret terroristic training of death squads and the support of military dictators and anti-Castro insurgents during the Kennedy and subsequent administrations.  And the citizens of Eastern Europe, having experienced the creative destruction of the free-market system under the Reagan-Bush I and Clinton regimes -- an exercise in freedom which has pauperized them and made them dependent upon the goodwill and largesse of the international bankers -- have seen first hand the discrepancy between the liberatory promise of  Western democracy and reality of the neo-liberal economic system, a system which has served to mightily prosper the upper echelons of the ruling class<br />Chomsky does make the case he begins with: that humanity is now situated at the brink of biological destruction, and the survival of the species depends upon worldwide resistance to the U.S. regime.  Concentrating on the murderous antics of nation states and their elites, he shows how the U.S. is creating enemies around the world, enemies who, through the example of North Korea, have come to see that states with nuclear weapons need not fear US invasion.   He shows how our policies conjure new and more powerful enemies out of the ground, enemies who will perhaps help us achieve the nuclear Armageddon our leaders appear to so badly want for us. <br />Here's Chomsky at his best on the neo-liberal agenda: \\"We are instructed daily to be firm believers in neoclassical markets, in which isolated individuals are rational wealth maximizers.  If distortions are eliminated, the market should respond perfectly to their 'votes,' expressed in dollars or some counterpart.  The value of a person's interests is measured in the same way.  In particular, the interests of those with no votes are valued at zero: future generations, for example.  It is therefore rational to destroy the possiblity for decent survival for our grandchildren, if by so doing we can maximize our own 'wealth' -- which means a particular perception of self-interest constructed by vast industries devoted to implanting and reinforcing it.'	2003-10-28
US	50506686	R5XLRKZE1DX9P	0807043206	895134207	DON'T THINK, SMILE!: Notes on a Decade of Denial	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Surviving Austerity	In \\"DON'T THINK, SMILE: Notes on a Decade of Denial,\\" Ellen Willis offers penetrating insights into the \\"new austerity,\\" the anti-democratic, anti-radical ethos that has come to be the prevailing and controlling ideology of American life.  From her perspective as a left libertarian, she offers a compelling critique of social conservatives on both sides of the aisle: on the right the neoliberal economists and right-wing libertarians (Bennett, Boaz Murray), and on the left, those who seek to revive the mass politics of the era of the liberal consensus (Rorty, Gitlin) by stifling as politically inastute the \\"balkanizing\\" multiculturalist thrust of the post-60s cultural left. <br />Willis makes a good case for cultural politics as the more successful of the two strands leftist practice.  She notes that no American has been untouched by the changes in \\"sexual mores, male female relations, the breakdown or taboos on public experession, the demand for a cleaner environment and a healthy diet, the new centrality of paid work to women's lives, the icreasing racial and ethnic heterogeneity of mainstream American life\\" ---- all of which grew out of 60s cultural radicalism -- and which has \\"after three decades and more of ferocious backlash, actively supported by the federal government, accomplished the social equivalent of the putting the toothpaste back in the tube.\\"<br />She suggests that Americans lack of interest in the agenda of the traditional left may be due to the fact that it is a pale echo of the conservative social agenda of work, more work, family values and upright \\"Christian\\" living.   That is certainly at least partially true, but it could also be argued that the relative popularity among the mainstream of the messages of cultural radicals can also be traced to their support by advertisers who found, starting in the 60s, that wild, sexy, carnivalesque, forever young, and alternative lifestyle advertising appeals worked, reviving a flagging economy whose plodding, adult-directed mass market 50s sales techniques no longer worked.  Willis tends to discount as too neat the theory that the rise of the \\"consumer republic\\" as instituted by corporate marketers depoliticized many Americans in the deft substitution of the rights and responsibilities of consumership for those of citizenship. This argument does, however, more than hold its own in explaining the lack of engagement among many Americans with the traditional liberal goals of economic equality as a quasi-material version of this goals can be instantly achieved through the use of credit cards.    <br />Willis is at her best perhaps when she personalizes her politics in stories about her own life.  For instance, her reaction to no parking signs in New York which tell drivers, quote: \\"Don't Even Think of Parking Here\\" make her want to plaster a bumpersicker over them that reads: \\"Don't Even Think About Telling Me What to Think.\\"  She notes that such signs are emblematic of the \\"one-way coversations carried on by driveway guards who call themselves journalists: \\"Dont even think about questioning the need to balance the federal budget.  Don't even think about workers getting a fair share of the wealth they produce. Don't even think about the problems with the institution of marriage that punishing unmarried mothers won't solve.\\"   <br />As the subtitle says, Willis takes on the issues that defined the 90s: \\"The Majoritarian Fallacy\\" (traditional liberals who believe the average American will sign up for redistrubitive tax policies because it is, after all, in their own best interests -- a bloodless theory shorn of any animating cultural values), \\"The Decade of Denial (Don't Even Think About, etc.), \\"Race and Ordeal of Liberal Optimism\\" (the belief by even liberals that no alternative to the mystical power of capitalism can ever be imagined in the amelioration of racism), \\"Beyond Good and Evil (views on the runaway criminal justice state and the inculcation of fear), \\"Freedom, Power and Speech (the wrong-headed philosophical formulations of anti-porn feminists, and their subsequent colonization by the right wing values crowd), \\"Intellectual Work in the Culture of Austerity\\" (the imposition of the discipline of the market into every aspect of intellectuals, and everyone else's lives), and, finally, \\"Their Libertarianism -- and Ours\\" (a discussion of the bizarre justifications of reactionary social policy under the philosophical heading of libertarianism by Charles Murray and David Boaz, executive president of the Cato Institute).<br />Willis' discussion of her intellectual journey and the economic hurdles placed in her path from the 70s on by the imposition of the neo-liberal economic regime is particularly engaging.  She tells of a 60s New York where jobs were easy to come by, where a person could support themselves on a small salary and had plenty of time left of social and cultural events.  Then, New York, which had been the experimental site of liberal, faintly socialistic programs -- free education at City College, subsidized housing -- was told to \\"Drop Dead\\" by President Ford.  The city's leaders buckled to demands for fiscal \\"austerity,\\" and within ten years New York became a place where artists and writers, the city's lifeblood, could not afford to live. <br />Willis's perspective might be seen to be an artifact of that earlier period when radicalism was possible, socialism was almost acceptable, where radical left-wing intellectuals ruled the roost in New York.  After all, how many liberals actually have the nerve to think, must less to say these days, that workers should get a fair share of the wealth they produce?  Emerson, aphoristically observing the anti-human outcome of the early industrial revolution in America, said: \\"Things are in the saddle and ride mankind.\\"  Willis, in her radical left libertarianism, her refusal to accept either the halter of the \\"free-enterprise\\" system or the saddle of the liberal left's majoritarian fallacy, is indispensible in this right wing age of compassionate conservatism, and left-wing conservative compassionism.	2003-10-28
US	50506686	R3P8RSJAD85I5Y	0060155094	389869022	Free Spaces: Sources of Democratic Change in America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Hopeful History of Democratic Spaces	FREE SPACES, which came out around the same time as Bellah's HABITS OF THE HEART, is in many ways a perfect companion text in that it lays out the history of a variety of democratic and populist movements in America while HABITS OF THE HEART concentrates on the (then) present expression of the such movements (as well as the increasing number of Americans whose only community is the community of the self).   The last chapter of FREE SPACES s perhaps the most compelling.  It begins:  \\"In 1849, one of Herman Melville's characters in his novel MARDI prsented to the people of Vivenze -- the United States -- a document that reminded them 'freedom is more social than political,' meant to suggest that democracy depended upon the virtue and intelligence of the citizens themselves.  The book's dismal sales in the mid-nineteenth century seemed to Melville a disgusting confirmation of his warning.  Today the same idea sounds to some a distant echo from the past.\\" Pg. 182. <br />And so is the project of Evans and Boyte as they tell the story of how Americans' political lifeblood and its engagement in the great issues of the day often bubbled up through religious and non-relgious organziations  such as the black church, specifically, the African Methodist  Espiscopal denomination, farmer's alliances like The Grange, labor movements such as the Knights of Labor and the IWW.  They note that community, as characterized by the agons of democracy during the past two decades,  is a reactionary conception, a construct that describes community as conservative, a vessel that contains family values, and whose subaltern members include wives and children who know their place and gratefully accept their roles.  The actual communities of the past were often radically democratic, Evans and Boyte note, including blacks, whites and women in their attempts to regain control of their lives in the shadow of the rising corporatization of America.<br />Melville, that great democrat,  for the most part fell silent after MARDI, and to a large extent the great waves of national people's organizations that bloomed in reaction to the era of the Robber Baron and the corporatization fell silent, too.  Boyte and Evans note that the Red Scare in the aftermath of WWI, the employment of propogandistic techniques developed during the mobilization for the war, the arrest and execution of labor and political activists,  effectively scuttled these freedom movements in the late nineteenth and early 20th centuries.  The movments arose again, although the next time under government auspices, and in a kind of whites only version of socialism, during the FDR and Truman administrations.  Given a seat at the table in the post-war concensus, labor, business and government put together a compromise in light of challenge of the Communist sphere, and poured oil on the waters of discontent until the civil rights, women's, and anti-Vietnam war movments bubbled from the wellspring of the people up and demanded a new birth of freedom.<br />Wisely, Boyte and Evans avoid the trap that Robert Putnam fell into in the first edition of BOWLING ALONE: they note that not all populist movments seek equality, social harmony or justice, but in fact, often promote just the opposite, as in the case of the KKK.  Similarly, the Silent Majority was \\"movement\\" invented by Nixon and his pollsters, which, not surprisingly, upheld their anti-liberal, anti-democratic agenda.   This \\"movement\\" is now called the \\"American people,\\" a group which is regularly invoked in justification of whatever program that the oligarchy has decided upon in its forced march toward world hegemony.   Now, as Evans and Boyte might observe,  Americans have been impressed into the ranks of the demobilized and the de-politicized, whose only desire is to maintain their social station.  Hopeful, historically grounded, FREE SPACES was written in a more hopeful time.  Still, it is worthwhile reading for those interesed in the history of people's movements in America.	2003-10-26
US	50506686	R1R0EKT9OCNQOU	1576752607	583677001	Gangs of America: The Rise of Corporate Power and the Disabling of Democracy	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Putting the Dog to Sleep	GANGS OF AMERICA is a penetrating account of how the corporation came to claim the same rights and freedoms as citizens. In retelling the history of this slow-motion grab for power -- it takes place over a hundred and fifty years through a variety of decisions and (mis)interpretations of the 14th amendment (among others) -- Nace shows how the corporation grew from a mistrusted, highly regulated entity into a virtually unregulated shape-shifting bacteria which, claiming to be human, has now subsumed many of the civil rights of Americans, and, further, through international agencies such as the IMF and WTO, the rights of citizens around the world. <br />Two insights Nace offers are particularly noteworthy.  The first is the rise of the counterrevolutionary corporation in the 1970s.  According to Nace, corporations in late 60s early 70s were caught \\"flat-footed\\" by rise of environmental and consumer movements, both outgrowths of the 60s social justice movements.   Bending to the popular will, government legislation like the Clear Air and Water Acts, the establishment of oversight agencies like the EPA, limits on tax shelters, and strengthened occupational safety and health bills were passed. The \\"revolt of the bosses\\" was activated by Lewis Powell, a corporate lawyer whose memo to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, \\"Attack on the American Free Enterprise System\\" laid out the reactionary agenda for business.  In a key passage he wrote, \\"The day is long past when the chief executive of a major corporation discharges his responsibility by maintaining a satisfactory growth of profits.... If our system is to survive, top management must be equally concerned with protecting and preserving the system itself.\\"  Powell, who later served on Supreme Court, planted with this memo a seed that sprouted into right wing think tanks, massive corporate political lobbying, and the became battle plan of the Business Roundtable and Conference Board.  CEOs, who before had only defended the\\"rights\\" of business in a piecemeal, industry by industry fashion, now signed on to long-term commitments through these umbrella organizations. Powell's memo, Nace notes (along with other recent historical accounts), was a key turning point in recent political and social history.<br />A second related insight he offers is in a comment made describing the recent change in the conception of corporate actors -- from bureaucrats in the 1940s through the 1970s to entrepreneurs in the 80s and since.  Taking up the laissez faire rhetoric of the Chicago School, preening themselves in the din of cheerleaders Reagan and Thatcher, CEOs in the 1980s began to step onto the national stage and tout the glories of capitalism as the purest expression of democracy.   They eschewed their previous role as one of three legs of the post WWII liberal business, labor, government consensus, an agreement designed to answer to the threat to capitalism posed by the governments of the Soviets and Chinese Communists.  This agreement was born in the long shadow of possible alternative political and economic arrangements, served to provide a fair and living wage to employees and reasonable profits to shareholders during the long post-war boom.  Moving away from this cooperative bureaucratic model of governance to the entrepreneurial model (which students of history will recognize as a version of Carnegie's \\"Gospel of Wealth\\" and the myth of the Rugged Individualist), Nace suggests that Lee Iacocca was the avatar of the new CEO.  So thoroughly has this reconceptualization of the CEO taken hold 20 years later that half of the shelf space in airport bookstores is now packed with triumphalist B-School cant from \\"dynamic\\" CEOs and their consultants.  Not uncoincidentally, the other  shelves are stuffed with the vociferous defenders of the conservative political order.  <br />During the Reagan revolution the notion of the entrepreneur was buffed to a high gloss.  Its was burnished to a blinding sheen in the dot com era when entrepreneurs were hailed as heroes and an overwhelmed public was fed a high-fat media diet of swashbuckling venture capitalists, code jockeys, and those fabulous rule-breaking, hyper-innovative MBAs.   The shift from bureaucrat to entrepreneur ran parallel to the shift in America from the bureaucratic state with its small safety net to the new night watchman state where business prerogatives became the only prerogatives and profit the only possible goal.  Despite their recent bad behavior in the business scandals of 2001-2002 we remain enthralled to these super-empowered, and loudly trumpeted individuals. Our ever compliant media continue to fail us in their fawning coverage of the business elite, an elite who manage economies that are larger than most nations, who unlike nations are not accountable to citizens, who play governments off one another for better tax breaks, who lay off middle managers at home to the cheers of Wall Street, and sell manufacturing jobs off to the highest overseas bidder when no one is looking.<br />Other interesting insights along the way: the wrong-headed ACLU defending corporations \\"right\\" to speech, erroneously accepting the definition of the corporation as a \\"person\\" with the same rights as persons. Nace also suggests that the American Revolution was not so much a revolution against the English government as an anti-corporate revolution against the British East India Company's monopoly on tea in the U.S. colonies.  In other words, not a political revolt so much as an economic revolt which finally gained traction when the merchant class began to find that their pecuniary interests were being trampled upon.  <br />Nace suggests the legal fiction of the corporation can be undone through citizen action, that the corporation can be housebroken and that if certain corporate actors continue to terrorize their neighborhoods that they should be put down by their true owners: the citizenry.  His last chapter, which narrates theactions of people who are attempting to do so may give some hope to a population who has all but given up on putting this power-mad conjuration back into its once solid, and now almost non-existent legal vessel.  A helpful summary of key Supreme Court decisions included.	2003-10-20
US	50506686	R2CO8LRB1PERZ9	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Work on the Haymaker, Al	Thank you Mr. Franken for refuting the scurrilous, anti-democratic cant of the oh-so-many assorted tools of the rich and powerful, the murderous mouthpieces Coulter, O'Reilly and Hannity, et. al.   Murdoch's Molechs have gotten away their vicious innuendo, distortions, and lies for far too long.  With &quot;Liars,&quot; Mr. Franken, you, with the help of your Harvard-trained research staff, have put the lie to the hoohah of this hydra-headed beast.<br />But really, Al, I wonder, do you really think reason and point-by-point refutation, no matter how accurately executed, will have the slightest effect on the beast and its minions?  It's a shame that it's gotten this bad, but the bought-and-paid-for rhetoric of the hydra has so polarized America, so marginalized, circumscribed, and even criminalized any other point of view that one wonders if there really is any hope for book like yours actually changing anyone's mind.  Yes, it's a shame the so-called liberal media has been missing in action like in the old McCarthy days, and your valiant attempt to throw a monkey wrench into the well-oiled attack machine is laudable, but, really, maybe you should consider doing what so many Americans have already done: relax into the warm bath of slander and take the draught of diminished hope.  <br />Think about it, Al.  Maybe it's time to get your heart into the right place, if you know what I mean. Harden it.  Stop the bleeding.  As we have been told so many times by the Coulter O'Reilly Hannity hydra, there are only two kinds of people in the world: the deserving people who own and run everything because they deserve to, and the undeserving people who are lazy and will never have anything and therefore don't deserve to.  You're successul.  You deserve your fame and money.  You worked hard for it.  Luck had nothing to do with it.  Not your family either.  It was all you, you Rugged Individualist.  So why not gratefully abandon yourself to delicious knee-jerk patriotism and flag reverence of the Fox Network?  Remember that war is the health of the state.  Punch your fist in the air as the Fox tools toadie to the cynical oligarchy which has swallowed up the once-honorable Republican party.  Shout huzzahs to the perfection of the cabalistic policies of George Jr., Cheney, Perle, Rumsfeld, Wolfowitz, Bremer and the corporatist state.  It'll feel great. Really, Al.  And you deserve it, Al.  You're proof that the American system works, aren't you?<br />Whew!  Boy that feels good, that &quot;us&quot; and &quot;them&quot; stuff.  The deserving and the undeserving thing.  You can almost see how the Coulter's and Hannity's get carried away with that stuff.  Kind of gets you all puffed up, don't it?  But anyway, seriously, Al, by engaging in this dogfight, this parsing of truth and untruth, you're in mortal danger of becoming a pawn in their game of one-upmanship.  This is a hard game to win.   I'm not saying you shouldn't have done it, or shouldn't continue to, but consider this, too: the best parts of your book are not the sections where you talk how the conservatives have shredded the social safety net and made off with the family silver, or  the parts where you show how Americans have been sold down the trickle-down river, but rather those humane and decent parts of the book where you, for instance, talk about your long and abiding friendship with Paul Wellstone, or talk about the inspiration you find in the American government programs of the New Deal when social justice and equality were embodied in the social safety net, the one that was there for your wife's family when her father was killed in the war.  It is the language of compassion, of community and love that best refutes the devil-take-the-hindmost ethos of  Supply Side Jesus.   (By the way I suspect that's one of the reasons you like Clinton so much -- he knew how to strike the chord of compassion in most decent Americans, whether Democrat or Republican.  This was the gift that drove hisenemies wild with hatred: the common touch conservatives claim to have, but don't).  <br />So what if Hannity doesn't have the number one show on television as he claims?  Or that O'Reilly never won those two Peabody he claims he did? Until someone with similar bandwidth can get up and slap down that hydra, head by head with the human language of real compassion -- and short-circuit the sound-bite, tough-love, focus-group language of compassionate conservatism -- we're going to be forever treated to Murdoch's Manichean world of good and evil: it simply plays so much better on television.  <br />You're right, someone has to put the lie to the liars, and this is a good start, and we appreciate it.  But the other, and, perhaps the more powerful weapon you have at your disposal is your decency and humanity, especially your gift for admitting your own zealousness might sometimes have led you astray.  This weapon is powerful because, as you point out, Americans prefer moral persons to scoundrels and liars.  And Americans very much want to act morally toward their neighbors, their communities, their country and the world.  They are beginning to awaken to the deceptions of these venal and vituperative hacks and their political puppet masters.  The weapons of humility, decency and humanity are powerful too because those who have arrayed themselves against the best interests of America are people who are sorely lacking in these estimable traits.   You and TeamFranken have the good left jab;  use it to keep the bums off-balance while you work on the haymaker.	2003-10-13
US	50506686	R32PKM7V3KQ9JI	0807050075	754357842	The Many-Headed Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History of the Revolutionary Atlantic	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Empire Begins	In 1741 at Hughson's, a waterfront tavern in New York City, a motley crew of men and women, members of what Linebaugh and Rediker call the Atlantic proletariat planned a rebellion against the New York ruling class.  They included among others radical Irishmen and women, Africans slaves, the wretched refuse created by the enclosure of the commons, the plantation system and the slave trade.  The rebellion was uncovered by the authorities, its leaders were tried convicted, lynched or broken on the wheel, or sent off to slave in plantations in the West Indies. Newspaper accounts of the time described vast crowds gathering from all over New York and elsewhere to view a peculiar, emblematic and perhaps even prophetic phenomenon.  The lynched bodies of two leaders of the rebellion, Hughson, an Irishman, and John Gwin, an African, were left to rot as a warning.  In death, the white's body turned black, and the black's turned white<BR> <BR>According to the authors, this resistance in New York was not unusual. It was just one of many, many rebellions and uprisings in the Atlantic colonies by what the authors call the \\"hydrarchy,\\" appropriating Francis Bacon's scurrilous metaphor of the many-headed hydra which he borrowed from the myth of Hercules and used to characterize dispossessed and extirpated peasantry of the Atlantic, a characterization used thereafter by the ruling class to describe those whom they enslaved to the exigencies of capitalism.  As the authors say in their conclusion on pages 327-328: \\"In the preceding pages, we have examined the Herculean process of globalization and the challenges posed to it by the many headed hydra.  We can periodize the almost two and a half centuries covered here by naming the successive and characteristic sites of struggle: the commons, the plantation, the ship and the factory.  In the years 1600-1640, when capitalism began in England and spread through trade and colonization around the Atlantic, systems of terror and sailing shipshelped to expropriated the commoners of Africa, Ireland, England, Barbados and Virginia and set them to work as hewers of wood and drawers of water.\\"  <br />The authors go on to say that in the second phase, 1640-1680, \\"the hydra reared against English capitalism, first by revolution in the metropolis, then by servile war in the colonies.  Antinomians organized themselves to raise of a New Jerusalem against the wicked Babylon in order to put into practice the biblical precept that God is no respecter of persons.  Their defeat deepened the subjection of women and opened the way to transoceanic slavery in Ireland, Jamaica, and West Africa.  Dispersed to American plantations, the radicals were defeated a second time in Barbados and Virginia, enabling the ruling class to secure the plantation as a foundation of the new economic order.\\"<br />They describe the third phase in 1680-1760 as the \\"consolidation and stabilization of Atlantic capitalism through the maritime state, a financial and nautical system designed to acquire and operate Atlantic markets.\\"  They note it was \\"the sailing ship -- the characteristic machine of this period of globalization -- combined features of the factory and the prison.\\"  Consider in this regard the famous 'tryworks\\" chapter in Moby Dick.  They go on to say \\"In opposition, pirates built an autonomous, democratic, multiracial social order at sea, but this alternative way of life endangered the slave trade and was exterminated.\\"  They note that connected with this counterrevolution from above, \\"a wave of rebellion ripped through the slave societies of the Americas in the 1730s, culminating in a multiethnic insurrectionary plot by workers in New York in 1741.\\"<br />The final phase of their history tells the story of how the \\"motley crew\\" with Tacky's Revolt in Jamaica and a series of uprisings throughout the hemisphere created \\"breakthroughs in human praxis--the Rights of Mankind, the strike, the higher-law doctrine--that would eventuallyhelp to abolish impressment and plantation slavery.\\"  He suggests these rebellions also helped to produce the American Revolution, which, they claim, \\"ended in reaction as the Founding Fathers used race, nation and citizenship to discipline, divide and exclude the very sailors and slaves who had initiated and propelled the revolutionary movement.\\"  <br />After reading this eye-opening leftist history, the polyglot streets of New York, indeed of any port city on the Atlantic, suddenly make a lot more sense.  Caught up in the brutal, enslaving machine of capitalism starting in the 1600s, the Atlantic and (and eventually) Pacific proletariat fought back against this deadly system of terror, enslavement and extirpation.  And it clearly appears, with the assistance of this people's history of the American colonies, that the sons and daugthers of the hydrarchy are caught up now in just the latest model of Blake's dark, satanic mills, trapped and impressed into the vast, destructive combine of the corporate hegemon.<br />Too programmatically left wing in its somewhat idealizing potrayal of the rabble as a motley crowd who sought freedom from their enconomic enslavement, who practiced democracy and rebellion in reaction to the vicious disciplinary system of the ruling class?  Perhaps, but not as tidy as those histories told from the top down which use the fumigated version of the historical record to tell those grand and increasingly obtuse stories of the birth of freedom, equality and opportunity for all.	2003-10-12
US	50506686	R3Q730LU87C68M	156584825X	808515856	Chimes of Freedom: The Politics of Bob Dylan's Art	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Vanguard Into Rearguard	In &quot;Chimes of Freedom: The Politics of Bob Dylan's Art,&quot; Mike Marqusee treats us to a full-on analysis of the cultural, political and historical significance of Bob Dylan in the context of the early-to-mid 60s when Dylan was at the height of his powers.  But even more, he shows how Dylan, at the vanguard of the social protest movement, was in the vanguard of the next development as well -- the turn away from the mass politics of the left, the social patriotism of Guthrie, toward the private politics of expressive individualism, the search for &quot;authenticity&quot; in an increasingly inauthentic world. With psychological nuance and sensitivity, he explores Dylan's defensiveness and arrogance, his sometimes convoluted and confused politics and his attempts to cope with nearly overwhelming fame and notoriety in the midst of social and political turmoil.<br />Essentially, Dylan is the core around which the story of the decline of the American Left is told. Marqusee provides insight in the factors that gave rise to the sense of hopefulness of the early 60s, a hopefulness that could not be sustained by most of the new white college kid converts to the civil rights and other social justice movements. Dense, packed with insight, this is a cogent corrective to the many misconceptions and platitudes that have come to describe this turbulent time in American history. In Marqusee's reading of the time, in the contextual backdrops he weaves, rescues a complex era from the oversimplifications of the media, e.g., the Woodstock Nation. <br />Emblematic of Dylan's break with the Old Left was his adoption of rock and roll instrumentation at Newport.  Launched into new sonic and social spaces, Dylan cleared the way for all kinds of experimentation, the explosion of creativity that ensued in such performers as Hendrix.  But in the explosion, Marqusee insists, the consumer state, sniffing around for new game, created an entire new marketing segment out of the excitement andwild extravagance of the ethos of personal freedom.  Soon, he shows, protests were uncool. The struggle did not provide the instant gratification that young white America had come to expect from the consumer state. Soon, the enormous wave of civil disobedience and protest against the Vietnam War subsided into the cynical selling of rebellious culture and its many accoutrements.  <br />Marqusee suggests, perhaps a bit too patly, that consumer culture and its mechanisms swamped the last vestiges of leftist New Deal politics.  Still, he convincingly defends the notion that Dylan after emulating the social patriotism of the folk-singers in the generation before his, began to form a more profound and more withering critique of the &quot;system,&quot; a critique which eventually pitted him against the Old Left, who still believed in the possiblity of the Popular Front.  Eventually, the New Left took up the notion of a revolution in consciousness as the only way to defeat the Establishment -- and as they did mimicked Dylan's search for the authentic.  A vexed notion, authenticity, as Marqusee notes, all the more sought after as it become harder and harder to find in the midst of the expolsion of the consumer state.  He shows us this tension in Dylan, who, after his early anthemic songs in the style of Guthrie, moved toward the imagistic, the satirical, the non-sequitur, the private hipster moves of Kerouac and Ginsberg and their in-crowd critique of (consumer) society as a way to distance himself from the Seeger and Baez crowd. <BR> <BR>Another strategy Marqusee employs well is the examination of Dylan's evolution against other music and other performers.  He does a particularly insightful job with Curtis Mayfield, showing how the music of protest came from gospel and was given new life by artists like Mayfield.  He also contrasts Phil Ochs with Dylan, who remained until the end a protest singer in the more generally accepted mold. In the epilogue, he cannily examines Dylan's decline through the rise of one of John Hammonds &quot;New Dylan&quot; -- Springsteen.  He suggest that Springsteen started out by aping the moves of the imagistic, stream-of-consciousness era Dylan, then, after studying some history and the some of the roots of popular music, began to align himself with the older stream of social protest music in the &quot;Tom Joad&quot; album.<br />No book of left social criticism is able to avoid mentioning Adorno and the Frankfurt School.  Thus Marquesee cites Adorno's views on popular music in his analysis.  Quite rightly disputes Adorno's views on the exploitation by capital of &quot;popular&quot; music in the case of early Dylan, but suggests Adorno's view of the impossibility of popular music remaining truly of the people in a consumer state. Adorno's grand and paranoid theories still a bit redolent of the determinism of his Marxist heritage, but there is more than a little truth in his theory. Still, more to my taste are the citations from Adorno's sometime friend and colleague, Walter Benjamin.  More Dylanesque, more elliptical, more paradoxical, less programmatic. <br />Dylan, an unwilling accomplice of the exploitation of rebel culture, troubled by his fame and its implications, grew conservative after &quot;John Wesley Harding.&quot; His great period came to an end just as the mass of young people began to experience the 60s, to &quot;question authority.&quot;  Marqusee has gone deep into this chaotic, watershed time, and pulled from it through his examination of Dylan, an historical and cultural vision which is bracing, balanced, and thoughtful.  Incidentally, a good companion read is &quot;Power and Protest&quot; by Jeremi Suri which shows how the leaders of both the free and unfree worlds after promising good times in the late 50s and early 60s, all moved toward conservative agendas in the face of a protest movement among youth, a movement in some ways fueled by the grand gestures and promises made -- &quot;TheNew Frontier&quot; and &quot;The Great Leap Forward&quot; -- and upon which they had not been able to deliver during the nuclear stalemate.	2003-10-06
US	50506686	R2Q0V1YUY9CMZJ	0684859750	682557686	A Fierce Discontent : The Rise and Fall of the Progressive Movement in America, 1870-1920	Books	5	32	39	N	N	Building a Middle-Class Paradise	In A FIERCE DISCONTENT, Michael McGerr, has written compact history of progressivism -- the wide, complex river of reform that began to overrun the constrictive banks of Victorianism in the 1870s, gathered force and power with the tacit and sometimes outright approval of the administrations of Teddy Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson, and then vanished into the great cataract of the Red Scare in the immediate aftermath of WWI.  Through a narrative of the social and economic cross-currents which progressives attempted either to control or unleash, a narrative interwoven with a terse biographies of reformers as well as those whom they hoped bring into confluence with their vision of the \\"middle-class paradise\\" (in William James' scornful elitist characterization), McGerr tells a story of epic sweep. <br />\\"To change other people; to end class conflict; to control big business; to segregate society\\" were, according to McGerr, the four quintessential battles of the progressive movement.  With this formulation he thus includes Carrie Nation as a progressive, making a strong argument that in her attacks on drinking and barrooms she was attempting to change the behavior of men, and in so doing, improve the lives of women, and change society for the better.  He also includes Frank Lloyd Wright, who in his \\"destruction of the box\\" and the creation of the prairie style attempted to refashion the very spaces that people lived in.  Along the way, we fall in with Jane Addams, Roosevelt, the Wobblies, Bill Haywood, Eugene Debs, and less well-known people such as Rahel Golub, a young girl from New York's Lower East Side who develops the \\"double vision\\" of the immigrant daughter -- one eye seeing the middle-class America as embodied by the settlement workers, and the other eye seeing the inside of her tenement, her workbench and her suddenly constrained life.<br />By concentrating on the extra-political activities of the progressives, such as the anti-divorce and Chatauqua movements, McGerr shifts the emphasis away from usual story of the Progressives later political interventions. What comes across most clearly in this history therefore is the evangelical zeal with which the reforming middle-class attempted to change not just the economic and social arrangements of America and the American state, but the American people.  They sought to spread their \\"Social Gospel\\" among both the lordly \\"upper ten\\" at the top and the working classes who slaved at the bottom in the sweatshops. Believing that if these undisciplined classes at the extremes of the spectrum could be made to see the error of their ideological assumptions and adopt the progressive ideal of \\"association,\\" (as opposed to the creed of individualism among the \\"upper ten\\" and the mutualism of the working classes), then these groups would come to see the wisdom of the progressive approach. <br />Progressives attempted to bridge the social distance between the rich and poor through the mediating ideology of association. An ideology probably more socialistic than they would care to admit, the progressives of the middle-class, their lives transformed by the dislocations caused by rampant industrial capitalism of period after the Civil War, attempted, in turn, to transform society at large, to domesticate its protagonists and harness its chaotic and often violent energies.  As McGerr points out, for the poor that meant such programs the establishment of settlement houses in their neighborhoods, such as Jane Addams Hull-House, where the poor could be gently brought into contact with their social betters, and indoctrinated into the ways of the progressivism.  (Indoctrination is perhaps too strong a word here for the progressives never had one single absolute agenda, which turned out to be both one of its strengths and its liabilities).  <BR>For the wealthy they first used the weapon of public remonstrance, raising a hue and cry over the immoral extravagance of the lifestyles of the hyper-rich during the Gilded Age. The ultra-rich were taken to the woodshed by such progressives as Thorstein Veblen; eventually they learned never to expose themselves to such scrutiny. Later, as reformers grew in power and influence, political strategies were instituted: the progressive income tax and, depending on Roosevelt's political needs, trust-busting, and labor negotiations. <br />We can now see that in the last of the four battles -- to segregate society -- that the \\"good\\" intentions of Progressives had in this battle actually caused harm to the American promise of equality of opportunity and social justice. Under the spell of eugenics as elaborated by sociologists and anthropologists, progressives encouraged segregation as a means to avoiding conflict.  Progressives looked away as African Americans, two generations after the Civil War and increasingly unwilling to toe the racial line any longer, were viciously \\"put in their place\\" by lynch mobs and a revived KKK across the South.  McGerr notes that the politics of exclusion were reversed for the Indians. The Federal government worked hard to assimilate American Indian tribes. The difference?   Land.  To get Indian land the government under Roosevelt passed legislation that gave Indians individual title to parcels of land.  Then, the ten of thousands of acres stolen through this process were then were sold to speculators and ranchers.  <br />Nearly overwhelmed by the assault of modernism as it broke down categories of time and space, the rise of individualism in the modernist movements in art, architecture and literature, and by the pleasure principle of early consumer society, progressive morality shifted to include the possibility of both collectivism and individualism. But when the Red scare broke, when even a secular saint like Jane Addams was suspected of being a Bolshevik, the death knell for progressivism was sounded.  McGerr suggests that we live in the disappointed wake of the progressive era, and in the flotsam andjetsam of gutted programs, half-funded reforms and rhetoric.  Poisoned by the relentless stream of invective poured out on liberal reform and big government by conservatives from Coolidge on, the epic attempt to reform America has resulted in the \\"less-than-epic\\" politics of today where we are skeptical of both government and of reform.	2003-09-15
US	50506686	R24WH3DQTK0GPR	0801848180	269039487	The Machine in America: A Social History of Technology	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Pretexts, Motives and The Valid Human Life	Pursell's acknowledged primary debt to Leo (The Machine in the Garden) Marx says a lot about his perspective in this nicely paced, often fascinating work of U.S. social history.  <br />Perhaps the best way to encapsulate the book is cite Pursell's citation of two quotes: one at the beginning of the book, the other at the end.  In the beginning, Pursell cites another historian (whose name escapes me) who noted the period of European Discovery could be explained in terms of this dynamic of exploration: \\"the pretext was religion, the motive was gold.\\"  From this Pursell's view of technology can be extrapolated as well: the pretext is efficiency, but the motive is hegemony.  At the end of the work, he cites Lewis Mumford, who in a review of Nader's \\"Unsafe at Any Speed,\\" wrote that people had become too accepting of the abstractions that are used to justify the unblinking acceptance of technology, e.g., money, power, etc.  Mumford suggested that until some consensus could be reached about \\"what constitutes a valid human life,\\" that humanity would continue to be subject to the intended and unintended consequences of technology and the technocracy that creates it.  (Incidentally, unintended consequences are often called externalities in business school, a word that neatly sets these depradations outside of the corporation in the same way they are channeled outside the corporation in the form of pollution, unemployment, and other forms of socially irresponsbile behavior.) <br />In between Pursell discusses the rise of the technocratic class from the imposition of Taylorism to regime of Fordism and into the postmodern age of production. It is a big subject, and Pursell, admittedly, has to carefully choose his examples to quickly advance his fairly familiar thesis; that from a nation where technology was early on fairly democratically distributed, technologies were introduced which placed technology and therefore power into the hands of fewer and fewer people. Not just material technology, of course, but the technology of the scientific approach.  <br />Pursell does a particularly good job on the rise of the technocratic class of civil engineers around the time of the Civil War through the present, men such as Herbert Hoover, who, for their clients built mines, canals, dams, roads, bridges, railroads all over the world.  In so doing, they spread the gospel of science as embodied in the instrumental uses of capital.  In addition they also managed to pocket a good deal of gold.  Pursell suggests that these technological imperialists were backed up and supported by the U.S. government from fairly early on, and, that they continue to be, now as then, helped most forcefully through the generous funding of the military industrial complex <br />Pursell also covers the reaction against the technological elite in the 60s and 70s -- the era when \\"Silent Spring,\\" \\"Small Is Beautiful,\\" and other influential works began to question the so-called \\"success\\" of the modern technological world.  Pursell suggests that the environmental and other allied movements, while important, have done little to arrest the trajectory of the Megastate -- to use Sheldon Wolin's characterization of the snug relationship between government and the corporation.  Jerry Brown's tenure as governor of California and his founding of the Office of Appropriate Technology (OAT) is used to good effect as an example of the hopeful spirit of that time when Americans were beginning to question the top-down technology solutions that prevailed, e.g., nuclear power vs. solar power.  Pursell notes the backlash against such programs was quick and brutal: Ronald Reagan as governer of California immediately pulled the plug on all eco-friendly initiatives.  Never one to let facts get in the way of his pro-business program, he once charged that \\"trees cause pollution.\\" <br />An admirable performance, this work neatly and with insight gives the general sweep of technological history in the U.S.  Very good illustrations are featured, many from the author's collection, and the captions for these are particularly good as they have considerably more sting than the generally neutral and sometimes muffled language of the text.  For those who wish to explore the subject further, the book also features a very good bibliography and notes section.	2003-09-04
US	50506686	R36BM8TZ9J4RD5	0674010310	414202103	Power and Protest: Global Revolution and the Rise of Detente	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Fear of Demos Makes For (Not So) Strange Bedfellows	The main thesis of POWER AND PROTEST is best summarized by author Jeremi Suri himself at the end of this brilliant and original exploration of post WWII international relations and their impact and continuity with domestic policy:  \\"In previous decades [the 40s through the early 60s] the Soviet-American rivalry had provided a simple bi-polar framework for both competition and cooperation.  This inherited architecture now proved inappropriate for a world in which citizens besieged their leaders, small nations challenged the influence of larger states [France and West Germany; Hungary and Czechoslovakia in the East] and China acted as an independent great power [dealing directly with France, for instance, instead of through their \\"big brother states, the U.S. and Soviet Union].  The international environment had grown multipolar, but the United States and the Soviet Union desired the continued power and standing they had possessed in the earlier bipolar setting.  What Kissenger called a new 'structure of peace' would protect the benefits of order and stability for the largest states despite the fragmenting trends in world affairs.  This was the conservative core of detente, and the drive behind the central accomplishment of the superpower summit [between Brezhnev and Nixon in 1972]\\" P.256.<br />His supporting thesis that \\"The strength of detente derived from the fact that it addressed the fears and served the interest of the leaders in the largest states,\\" is well and amply proven with reference to original source material from each period he explores.  With state documents and memoirs, he dramatically shows the panic of the world leaders as they confront their suddenly, inconveniently active citizens, who, given reason to hope in the early 60s with their leaders' charismatic rhetoric about the \\"New Frontier,\\" the \\"Great Society,\\" \\"Great Leap Forward,\\" \\"Communist Construction (and DeStalinization),\\" ironically had their rising expectations dashed by the very same menthose who activated these hopes.  In their tussle for power, and in their attempts to prove their systems or their insight into world and domestic politics were superior, Mao, DeGaulle, Kennedy, Johnson, Krushchev, Willy Brandt, and others came to fear the chauvinistic idealism they had unleashed in their charismatic rhetoric.  Ironically, this leadership cohort, especially the most powerful actors, the U.S. and Soviet Union, felt compelled to reach out to each other, put aside the inflammatory anti-communist and anti-capitalistic rhetoric, and demonstrate to their unruly citizens and client states that as nations they could and would work together in peaceful coexistence.  Suri likens these two states to \\"overmuscled wrestlers\\" who were constrained by the potential of mutally assured (nuclear) destruction to muzzle their client states' inflammatory rhetoric.  The exception that proved the rule, according to Suri, was Vietnam.  It was seen by Kennedy and Johnson, as well as by Chinese and Soviets, as a proving ground that would show which set of political arrangements was superior.  Far enough away from the U.S., China and the Soviet Union, it met the requirements of a showcase war for all.<br />As Suri says: \\"Each of the great powers gained from stability when confronted with the prospect of wide-spread disruption.  D?tente assured that the international system would operate smoothly so long as policymakers adhered to their objective 'national interests.'  The problem, Suri suggests, is that national interests are \\"not objective laws, but instead contested ideas,\\" and that \\"Detente's fatal weakness grew from its inability to address the claims of citizens and small states that refused to accept the status quo because of its perceived injustice.\\"   By this he means \\"From the day that Nixon and Brezhnev signed the Declaration of Principles through the end of the 1970s, the leaders of the great powers suffered repeated criticism for ignoring concerns about national self-determination, human rights, economic fairness, and racial and gender equality.\\"<br />He notes that \\"Agitation around these issues had triggered the global disorders in the 1960s that initially  made detente appear necessary as a source of stability.  Ironically, political leaders reacted to the criticisms of injustice voice in the previous decade by isolating and containing dissent rather than by creating new sources of popular consent.\\"  \\"Detente reflected traditional balance-of-power considerations, but  also included a set of policies that deliberately constrained domestic dynamism.  Instead of eliminating the suffering and dissatisfaction in the Cold War, it tried to make it all seem 'normal.'\\"<br />Global protest, Suri suggests, was given impetus by state programs.   College loans and grants, necessary to build a new technocratic citizenry who would through science demonstrate the superiority of  their respective political systems, backfired as thousands of young people were herded together in colleges and universities all over the world.  There they found a literature of dissent waiting for them by such authors as Solzhenitsyn, Marcuse, Galbraith, and Harrington. Armed with these anti-state and anti-\\"system\\" discourses, students around the world developed a common language of dissent and protest, a language soon taken up by the disspossessed all over the world.  <br />Summing up, he says, \\"Skepticism toward authority is now a global phenomenon\\" that has grown out of the conservative core of detente and its stepchild, globalization.  \\"Leaders are no longer loved or feared.  In some of the largest democracies they are ignored by as much as half of the electorate, which refrains from voting.  Leaders are frequently profaned by international media that play on public distrust of politicians.  In this cynical environment, we are still living with the dissent and detente of a previous generation.\\"<br />POWER AND PROTEST is a landmark work of history.  Scholarlyand highly readable, it is unsurpassed in tracing the roots of dentente as a  conservative reaction to the political engagement of the demos across all types of states.	2003-09-01
US	50506686	RD8Y7KZRI9UB7	0805044213	32809898	The Culture of Defeat: On National Trauma, Mourning, and Recovery	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Sore Losers Make Bad Medicine	THE CULTURE OF DEFEAT, an appraisal of the sociocultural similarities apparent in the American South after the aftermath of the Civil War, France after the Franco Prussian War, and Germany after WWI, is an extraordinary performance.  Much more than mere sociology or social psychology, it ranges with bracing erudition and insight across the realms of intellectual history, cultural criticism, and political and economic history, synthesizing across these disciplines to elucidate its main thesis: that these \\"losing sides\\" went through nearly the same stages of national consciousness as they sought to come back from defeat, that each put forth an explanation of their failure in similar terms, and each, in the fullness of time, came back as more powerful after their defeats.<br />Dreamworld, scapegoating, revenge -- these are just a few of the parallel stages these defeated states went through.  For instance, Germany, France, the American South, all cultivated a \\"dreamworld\\" in the immediate aftermath of their defeats, a period of time where leaders are blamed for misleading the people into a war that could not be won, a time when the defeated nation looks to the victors for recognition of their true goodness and their unfortunate victimization by a corrupt elite.  In licking their wounds, new more powerful \\"us vs. them\\" discourses were created and served to bind the defeated together in seeking their redemption among nations.  The Southernization of U.S. politics, for example, over the past 25 years is emblematic of how the South has indeed risen again.   In the short term, it took only a few years (with the rise of the Ku Klux Klan as the enforcement arm of Southern elites) to rewrite the Reconstruction codes as Jim Crow laws and the \\"lawful\\" suppression of the African American to be de facto reinstituted against the early injunctions of the victor.  As Schivelbusch points out, in a terrible irony, the Nazis looked to these codes for instruction as they planned the demonization and destruction of the Jews. <br />Unlike Kubler-Ross' famous (and in danger of becoming as trite and omnipresent as the 12 step program) stages of grief, nation states do not apparently move toward acceptance.   In the nation state new discourses must be hammered together out of the wreckage of defeat, and new goals and national purposes must be forged out of the ashes.  One assumes it is difficult to mobilize a citizenry under the banner of acceptance.  Schivelbusch, to this point, interestingly, takes issue with the notion that the cycle of defeat and revenge was broken at last after the Second World War through American munificence with Japan and Germany.  Schivelbusch suggests that a form of revenge has indeed been in play in the economic arena.  <br />In his conclusion, Schivelbusch notes it is not much of a stretch to suggest that these same patterns may hold true in the wake of the current U.S. war and that a new, more virulent culture of defeat may be created in the Middle East.  In less interesting and compelling fashion, other recent books suggest this has already come to pass.  Importantly, what Schivelbusch does is show how Western states, too, use the same language of dreamworld and revenge, and shows how they have embarked on the same paths of retribution and domination.	2003-09-01
US	50506686	R3S4EGOI1PWCW5	0226467961	495656080	Moral Politics: What Conservatives Know That Liberals Don't	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Pasteboard Mask of Metaphor	In MORAL POLITICS, cognitive linguist George Lakoff explores the metaphorical language behind politics, &quot;deconstructing&quot; the emotionally powerful, and unconscious &quot;common sense&quot; discourse of family ties and their inappropriate but ubiquitous application to politics. It is quite a remarkable performance, often thought provoking, insightful and even revelatory.  Once he gets through a too long disquisition on the science of cognitive linguistics (which, despite the trappings of scientific method has much in common with literary criticism) and gets down to cases, his sharp, often cutting insights into what he calls the tendentious, self-righteous, self-legitimizing discourse of the Right, crackles with acute observation.<br />His introductory example of the distorting power of metaphor discusses an editorial in the Washington Post.  This editorial, written when Washington, D.C. was suffering budget problems, likened the city to a &quot;poor mother&quot; who overcharges on her credit card because she is too softhearted to deny her child the things she thinks the child requires.  Lakoff points out that instead of employing logical argument about budgets and economics, the &quot;argument&quot; in this column proceeds from metaphor, comparing the city to an undeserving, prolifigate welfare mother, which most readers will recognize as a stock character in conservative dramaturgy.  Thus, the columnist is able to reduce the problem to a stock situation with the appropriate stock conservative remedy: &quot;just say no.&quot;  Lakoff countering in the liberal vein, points out that the city's budget deficits were incurred for a variety of reasons, not the least of which is the flow of suburban workers in and out of the city each day, commuters who do not pay city taxes but still require and demand city services. Further, he suggests that the seat of state power might be considered especially deserving of the largesse of Congress by virtue of the fact that itis our nation's capital, the city of the people, and of important symbolic value.  Using these arguments, he suggests Congress could be characterized by liberals as a &quot;deadbeat dad,&quot; as a way to counter the conservative metaphorical system, fighting metaphorical fire with metaphorical fire. <br />His analysis of moral accounting and moral credit is at the heart of both the conservative and liberal metaphorical systems. The difference between the models is a difference in emphasis and within each system a difference of focus, Lakoff suggests.  Liberals, when they open the books to examine moral debits and moral credit accruing to various people, groups, and classes, factor larger social forces into the balance.  They call into the accounting notions of fairness and equality of opportunity as factors that have a decided effect on the chances of each citizen or group to prosper.  When conservatives do their Moral Accounting, no social factors -- poverty, race, gender -- are allowed to muddy the calculation.  In the atomistic conservative accounting system, every individual is already equal: equal to succeed by dint of hard work, self-reliance, and self-denial or to fail because of laziness, dependency and irresponsibility. The conservative ideology, which Lakoff describes as Calvinistic, then expands the individual moral accounting to society at large claiming that wealth is a signal of moral superiority on earth, and a sign of one's election to life everlasting in Heaven.<br />Lakoff offers two metaphorical models to explain the difference between conservatives and liberals, both of which are based on conceptions of the family.  He notes that conservatives wield their metaphorical model -- The Strict Father -- much more effectively than liberals because they have studied its innerworkings more rigorously.  Also, he notes it is more rhetorically effectively because unlike the liberal model -- The Nurturant Parent model -- The Strict Father model offers a complete explanation and justification for those who are either powerful already, or for those who wish to support and emulate the powerful.  The Strict Father program of top-down ideologically reinforced hierarchy -- a disciplinary program where punishment is more important than reward --  is a program which believers are told flows out of the natural moral order established of God.  Not surpassingly, the Strict Father model supports and reinforces the Free Market model, offering its Chain of Bein moral ethos as a natural legitimization of the &quot;discipline&quot; of the &quot;competitive&quot; market. The Nurturant Parent model, on the other hand, supports mutual respect, mutual aid and tolerance, and according to Lakoff is ineffectively articulated by liberals and mischaracterized by conservatives as communistic, socialistic, destructive of individual initiative. <br />The problem with both metaphorical systems Lakoff realizes is the primacy of place given the parent, whether Strict or Nurturant.  Both imply hierarchy, one an Old Testament hierarchy where the Father is firmly ensconced as the ultimate arbiter and disciplinarian, the other where the Nurturant parent, modeled after the Son of the New Testament, which offers forgiveness and compassion.  Democracy, on the other hand, is a political system that is intended to promote lateral relationships and mutuality of governance.  Lakoff's depiction of liberalism as the Nurturant parent, though descriptive of the current ethos of the Democratic Party, tends to legitimate hierarchy -- a kinder, gentler hierarchy, but a hierarchy nonetheless.   The anarchist Emma Goldman, raised by a strict father who beat and terrorized her, yet whose bold and dashing character she admired in spite of the abuse -- an embodied version of the conservative ethos -- saw all kinds of power as self-reinforcing and self-legitimating.  While the therapeutic state is probably more humane than the patriarchic model offered by conservatives, itmust ask itself for whose benefit it exists, and whose well being it really promotes.  It is a party that is, in its past incarnation as the Party of Hope, is in Lakoff's formulation and to its credit, more willing to entertain the question than the Party of History.   While Lakoff does us a service by encouraging us to see behind the pasteboard mask, an older Democrat, Melville, a Young American Democrat, encouraged a far riskier and dangerous project: to burst through the mask into a new  and unpredictable moral space.	2003-08-10
US	50506686	R2WNVJCYNCMEOE	0199257019	883580651	Making Globalization Good: The Moral Challenges of Global Capitalism	Books	1	7	14	N	N	The Usual Suspects	In this volume we hear first from Deepak Lal in his essay &quot;History, Morality and Capitalism,&quot; a tone-setting essay where the historians such as Louis Dumont and Michael Oakshott are cited in a condensed narrative of the worldwide history of mankind.  Here we find Lal takes for granted man's inherent nature as a creature who wishes to &quot;truck and barter,&quot; the Smithian assertion that much twentieth century ethnographic research has called into question.  Yet Las makes this assertion as confidently as those made for centuries in the West that women have no souls, and that blacks have no right to their bodies, and in the East that Untouchables are unclean.  <br />He moves to the &quot;moral&quot; and &quot;historical&quot; part of his essay by tracing the split between the Western and the Eastern traditional beliefs to the rise of capitalism to the restrictions of the early medieval Catholic Church.  The church he claims changed the rules around the traditional distribution of patrimony by creating new laws and moral injunctions with respect to the distribution of wealth to heirs, injunctions which created a widow class who, because they were enjoined to follow the new law against remarriage after the death of a husband were ripe fruit for importunate priests who drew their fortunes into the church treasury.  A very lucrative practice, this resulted in fabulous wealth for the medieval church according to Lal.  <br />Lal also explores the Western moral and economic philosophers starting with St. Augustine's vision of the shining city on a hill, then moves to the high Enllightement with Kant's universalistic moral creed which sought to demostrate that man was naturally moral and that that God (though still alive) was not necessary to moral behavior. Lal notes that once Darwin declared &quot;God is blind,&quot; and later Nietzche proclaimed that &quot;God is dead&quot; the confusions wrought by ultilitarianism and consequentialism thoroughly dis-enchanted the world.  Through one of Nietzche's aphorisms -- &quot;moral sensibilites are nowadays at such cross purposes that to one man a morality is proved by its utility, while to another its utility refutes it&quot; -- the end of idealist philosophy is demonstrated.   <br />Toward the end of the essay he suggests that any movement that would seek to undermine the trajectory of the capitalist economic ethos through a communalist or cooperative approach is &quot;atavistic,&quot; and with that one word attempts to dismiss any evidence of or hope for less destructive arrangments among mankind.  He uses the word at least three or four times, as if in its repitition it might become the more true.  Another word he likes is Ecofundamentalists, a word he takes credit for inventing, and with which he attempts to discredit groups and people around the world who do not readily accede to what business theory eumphemistically calls &quot;externalities,&quot; but which most people more simply call &quot;pollution.&quot; <br />He finally ends the essay by suggesting international business consider a Humean common sense perspective.  Hume, he says, saw that families have raised children to certain standards of behavior and &quot;golden rule&quot; beliefs for thousands of years without recourse to the potential divisiveness  caused by different beliefs of followers of the various world religions diand.  He maintains that it is these home truths of human behavior which should be invoked in global economic arrangements as they best represent the most common arrangements of humanity worldwide, a strategy which would avoid the misunderstandings generated between followers of various religions.   <br />Similar to his earlier advancement of the universal creed of &quot;truck and barter,&quot; is the practice of the universal home truths.   Even if this assertion is to be granted, it prompts one to ask why capitalism should be allowed to piggy-back on these home truths, these relations which are generally altruistic or famlial in nature.  Further, one could ask whether it is appropriate for capitialism to rely on these human arrangements given the self-seeking behavior promoted by capitalism.  Will it not destroy the very arrangements it is piggy-backing on, or, more pointedly, isn't there ample proof that it has already?   This essay is fairly representative of the essays in this volume; a dry, and supposedly &quot;objective&quot; manual designed for international business class and governmental and academic technocrats who have recently been forced by protests all over the world to examine the potential snarls they might run into as the world is remade in the image of the almighty dollar.	2003-07-13
US	50506686	R2FOQZ66JDRX9X	0813305497	163352642	Television And The Crisis Of Democracy (INTERVENTIONS--THEORY AND CONTEMPORARY POLITICS)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lost in the Funhouse	In &quot;Television and the Crisis of Democracy&quot; the most valuable service postmodern popularizer Kellner performs is a quick but fair summary the major leftist theories of media over the past century.  Then taking elements of each, he attempts to build a more comprehensive, realistic model of the media and its effects on social, economic, and political life.  He shows that each theory tends to focus too narrowly on one cause, for instance that the Frankfurt school theorists represented by Adorno and Max Horkheimer, true to their Marxist backgrounds, tends to view media economistically as a tool of the capitalist, the means to upholding the bourgeoisie state.  He also discusses the radical critique of Chomsky and others which charges that the media is almost purely a tool of government.  He discusses Habermas briefly, noting his view that the images and stories in the media now constitutes most peoples' understanding and of the world.  He touches on Baudrillard, neatly stating this theorists' view that in the postmodern world we now inhabit in which we hear people on television describing events they have witnessed personally as being like something they &quot;saw on TV.&quot;   A philosophical theory, which though interesting Kellner notes, fails to analyze it in economic or any other terms for that matter.<br />Then, after his summary, noting that television has never been &quot;theorized&quot; completely, he then attempts a synthesis of these various critiques, one that is reasonable and fairly straightforward: the media is captive to economic forces, but not entirely so.  It does tend to broadcast and thus sustain the arrangements of both the economic and the political elite.  At the same time, the media will give voice to counter opinions.  Kellner points out that these counter opinions are usually other elites whose bull is being gored by the another set of elites and thus the &quot;balanced&quot; reporting technique so prized by journalists for its &quot;objectivity&quot; reinforces a fairly narrow discourse and leaves out any other non-elite or even radical elite viewpoints.  Rather, the media prefers mainstream discourse from trusted representatives of the power elite to bolster their own authority and to curry favor with that elite.  At the same time Kellner notes, certain stories sometimes arise, scandals, for instance, that do not serve the interests of any elites.  He notes, however, that such events are relatively rare.<br />Kellner also gives a brief history of the hijacking of the public airwaves by big business, discusses Paul Lazarfeld's insight that what is &quot;not seen&quot; in the media is just as important, if not more so than what is seen, and shows with careful research how the conservatives scared the &quot;liberal media&quot; to a conservative center position during the Nixon, Reagan and Bush era while at the same time the deregulatory policy of the government with respect to the media transformed the media business into bottom line focused entities which quickly failed to uphold the public interest but instead upheld the interests of the corporations that own them.   Those corporations desire profit, they do not desire lawsuits, nor do they wish to offend those who buy ads or those who control those who really control the broadcast licenses, the FCC, not the citizenry.  <br />More than ten years old now, some of the examples Kellner employs here, as one might expect, may seem a little musty to some.  But others may find, provocatively, that the examples he cites of the previous decades media mendacity, misdirection and misrule during the Reagan/Bush era are just as apparent, if not more apparent now.  In fact, Kellner's last section in the book which discusses strategies for the public to take back the public trust of the airwaves is almost poignant now.   The discussion that he had hoped for, where citizen groups would demand re-regulation of the airwaves that would involve more local controland more say in what is covered and not covered in the media, has not come to pass. Kellner in a postscript would have to say its only been more of the same since this book was published, more deregulation, more media agglomeration, more of the same non-coverage of real political scandal or alternative views of how society might conceive of itself.  This &quot;business as usual&quot; activity in the intervening decade actually goes to his larger point that the media is closely aligned with conservative business and political elites more so than at anytime in the past century.   See also Gitlin's Media Unlimited for another good take on the media as entertainment culture.	2003-07-12
US	50506686	R1XBAEDD4CEBEV	0375413073	999728497	Being America: Liberty, Commerce, and Violence in an American World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Counseling Moderation in an Immoderate World	For those who may have found Purdy's \\"Common Sense\\" entirely too earnest, and too impressed with his own high moral seriousness, \\"Being America\\" may come as something of a welcome surprise.  Purdy's earnestness is still there, but it has apparently been tempered by its more complex and confounding subject: the American Empire.  <br />Taking Edmund Burke as his philosophical muse, believing Burke's positions on the American colonies and India are appropriate for today (pro-independence for the American colonies, and against the British exploitation of India), he uses Burke as a compass to help guide him through the confusing and sometimes dangerous waters created by American foreign policy over the past generation.  Giving voice both to those who have been bounced around and/or sunk in the wake of America's exercise in gunboat and cultural diplomacy, as well as those who have been manning the bridge, Purdy does achieve useful insights. <br />He clearly hopes his readers will find this view unusual, an antidote to the noisome cheerleading of the pro-globalization crowd who, he says, believe that all nations and cultures, for their own eventual good, should stop throwing up sandbags against the flood tide of the liberal economic system and instead, welcome its flows of capital and the disciplinary virtues of the commerce that come along with it.  Or their opposites who maintain that cultural and political diversity are being ravaged by the imposition of the liberal economic ethos through agency of the WTO and its powerful sponsors, who see globalization as just the latest version of colonialism as practiced by a new public relations conscious class of blood-sucking imperialists.  <br />Purdy does steer a steady course between these extremes, partly because he has a searching, almost novelistic perspective that attempts to see the essential humanity of those who are not American and who are attempting to come to terms with the new \\"American\\" world they inhabit.  In oneinstance, for example, he talks a member of an environmentalist group in Indonesia which has taken up the strategies of Green Peace to expose logging firms' illegal harvesting in the rain forest, who admits that he likes Osama Bin Laden because he is \\"confident\\" -- the kind of personal quality that a pundit here in the States might use to describe a presidential candidate.  More and more, Purdy seems to be suggesting, image politics, born in the U.S.A., has become the politics of the world. <br />Another riveting interview is with Beka Economopoulos, who works for the Rainforest Action Network (RAN), and who thinks of herself in the same way a McKinsey consultant might think about corporate branding, except of course, that she and her associates wish to turn the power of the brand against itself.  By using the media to spread the word about Home Depot's purchase of timber from old growth forests, RAN forced Home Depot to swear off such purchases and institute new policies.  These kinds of guerilla attacks, Purdy notes, have been very effective in the new brand-driven economy.  But as Purdy also points out, it has also served to make the corporation more covert and cagier.  Further, groups like RAN are forced to use the strategies and tactics of the public relations firms to get heard.  Without putting people on the street as the left once did, such groups remain captive to a media system that may or may not cover their latest publicity stunt. <br />Purdy also discusses the fickle sovereignty of the media and the post-modern interpenetration of commerce and image politics in his re-telling of the tale of the Zapatista insurrection.  So effective was this made for TV guerilla \\"army\\" that they forced the Mexican government -- with the media eyes of the world upon them in the wake of NAFTA -- to parley with them on substantive landholding issues whereas in a former era they would have been rounded up and shot.  Purdy notes with irony that when the Zapatistas marched toMexico City for the meeting with the president (guarded by Mexican troops) they were met with crowds of people wearing their movement's signature black masks -- which were being sold as souvenirs by street vendors.  Purdy points out that another South American revolutionary group took up the Zapatistas PR strategies (such as mailing gifts to reporters with snappy revolutionary sayings enclosed), only to find the media would only cover one PR savvy revolutionary group at a time. <br />Purdy, turning his eye on America, suggests that America should try to stop being both so \\"universalistic\\" and \\"parochial,\\" and rather, adopt more humane, more cosmopolitan views.  America, which took its mission to be the exemplar Enlightenment's project of liberty and equality, which thinks of itself as occupying and exporting the \\"realm of revelation,\\" can be blind to the way it imposes these views on peoples who have no wish to be enfolded in its embrace.  Another difficulty Purdy notes is that American foreign policy has become so captive to the free market ideology that it has substituted for its banner of civil freedom the banner of consumer freedom.  He believes we have done, and can do better.<br />At the end of \\"Being America\\" Purdy places himself on the political map as a \\"democratic nationalist\\" in acknowledging his debt to Michael Lind as an initial critic of his manuscript.  Lind, the former associate of Wm. F. Buckley, abandoned what he felt was a morally compromised movement interested only in power, to expound a position of \\"democratic nationalism,\\" a worldview exemplified by such antecedents as Alexander Hamilton, Teddy Roosevelt, and Truman.  Like Lind Purdy believes American power must be used, and Purdy's counsel of moderation, of America acknowledging past mistakes in foreign policy while setting a future course which more truly reflects America's older civil religion of liberty and equality, is a welcome one.  Conservative, yes, but in the tradition of Burke, notthose radical interventionists who would falsely sail under those colors today.	2003-07-07
US	50506686	R36UJYOQAH9719	0742522504	329745468	Boats Against the Current: American Culture between Revolution and Modernity, 1820-1860	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Real American Revolution	In \\"BOATS AGAINST THE CURRENT: American Culture Between Revolution and Modernity 1820 to 1860,\\" Lewis Perry's thoughtful and engaging cultural history, we encounter the oligarchic post-colonial culture swamped by the ideas and cultural practices of a newly expressive citizenry.  Busily creating and enacting the idea of democracy in word and deed, the unfettered multitude, according to Lewis launched America into the modernist current well ahead of the rest of the West.   He shows how with the frame of traditional colonial society cracking apart, a new performative space opened up, and was filled with a chaos of new subjectivities.  <br />Perry convincingly describes this era as a time when new ideas met with new audiences, a time when evangelists like Charles Finney, Lyceum lecturers including visionaries like Emerson, abolitionists such as Garrison, circuit ridingMethodist ministers, mountebanks such as the Twain's fictionalized \\"King\\" and the \\"Duke,\\" beggars and Yankee peddlers, co-created with the people a new kind of democratic theater in a new national imaginarium. Perry shows how the contentiousness between rival groups as to what constituted American culture, a contest which has continued throughout American history, began in this era.  For instance in the expanding urban of New York \\"b-hoys\\" (antecendents of \\"b-boys?\\") invaded the new Astor Place theater (which catered to a newly self-conscious upper-class) and shouting the name of their hero, American Shakespearean actor Edwin Forrest, pelted a high-toned English actor with rotten vegetables in a gesture of cultural defiance.  The conflict ended the next day when the police shot and killed 15 of the rioters. <br />His main thesis is that in this creation of the new popular culture, the beginnings of \\"modernism\\" are visible.  Modernism is a slippery term, of course, which he readily admits, but does go to some length to define what he means by it, noting how different disciplines employ different definitions.  He notes for instance that most historians draw the line according to economic acitivity positing the  beginning of modernism in the immediate aftermath of the Civil War and defending this view by citing how the war sped up the process of the consolidation of capital and the centralization of the industrial economy of the United States.   But an economic basis for judging the onset of modernism, he argues, is not sufficient.  He suggests that in the performative culture of this era, in the radical individualism of this post-revolutionary era, the new subjectivity of modernism was also evident.  Free to clothe themselves in new ideas, to invent new livelihoods (evangelist, abolitionist, missionary, democratic politician, etc.) or to move between occupations as necessary (lawyer, doctor, farmer) Americans, during this time when boundaries between professions and careers were not as well policed as they later became, were subject to the same anxieties and radical discontinuities we experience now. <br />Some of the texts he uses to support his thesis includeWhitman's individualistic and democratic poetry such as \\"Song of Myself\\", Melville's adventure novels, the elegaic romances of Hawthorne (who through such works as \\"The Scarlet Letter,\\" attempted to drive a stake through the still-beating heart of the Purtinanical past).  Perry also gives us new readings of works of European visitors such as Toqueville, who often negatively reported on the expressive individualism and economic self-interest unleashed by \\"democracy in America\\" to European aristocrats and bourgeious as a way to warn them of what the inevitable democratic wave might look like when it washed up on their shores.   <br />Based on Perry's research and readings, it appears DeToqueville's writings do need a fresh look.  Perry shows how DeToqueville was biased by his aristocratic past, and his initial sources in New England, most of whom looked down their noses at the new democratic culture.  Too, DeToqueville, although often praised for his objectivity, was sentimental and attached to the life of the ancien regime.  Perry, for instance, tells us how DeToqueville, moved by a an account he had read as a young man of a French aristocrat who lived in exile on an island in a lake in Massachusetts, took a special trip there to revel in the fine wistful sentiment of it all.  Perry tells us DeToqueville also took a special trip into the \\"frontier\\" (near Detroit at that time) to see real \\"noble savages.\\"  On the way he enountered town Indians, miserable, poor, sick and drunk.  He was appalled by their \\"degeneracy,\\" blind to the role of the American settlers in creating such suffering, but thrilled when he met Native Americans on the frontier who had yet to be conquered and fit his idealized picture of the noble savage he'd encountered in books.  <br />Another key work for Perry is Hawthorne's  \\"The Seven Vagabonds,\\" and some striking passeages from Hawthorne's letters reporting on a trip during which encountered peddlers, performers (one with a wagon featuring a model of the wonders of the ancient world), who are later fictionalized in the story.  He also does a nice reading of a passage in James Greenleaf Whittier \\"Yankee Gypsies\\" in which Whittier tells of a man who knocks on his door and wordlessly hands him a \\"soiled piece of parchment, whereon I read what purports to be a melancholy account of shipwreck and disaster, to the particular detriment, loss, and damnification of one Pietro Frugoni, who is, in consequence, [is] sorely in want of the alms of all charitable Christian persons...\\" Whittier tells us that this was the beggar's fourth or fifth incarnation, that he had been begging in different guises for years, and that, actually, they had grown up together as boys. <br />Other examples of the rise of the mass and mass culture he cites are Matthew Brady's photography studio and P.T, Barnum's Musuem, (which were incidentally located across the street from each other inNew York).   He shows how through all these new \\"circuits,\\" the great chaotic experiment of freedom began, and how the Jacksonian republic of the multitude set off into with blithe unknowing into the uncharted waters of modernism.	2003-05-14
US	50506686	R2RYFM4D7UHAM4	0743227298	656228007	The Influentials: One American in Ten Tells the Other Nine How to Vote, Where to Eat, and What to Buy	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Real Insight	For one simple, powerful reason THE INFLUENTIALS stands head and shoulders above the field in the marketing trends book sweepstakes.  Its insights are based on data, long-term empirical data, judiciously considered.  Facts.  Numbers.  A real departure from most books about the American consumer which base their hypotheses, and thus their recommendations, on anecdotes, renovated B-school doctrine, all plumped up with a few chunks of data culled willy nilly from any variety of sources. (Has anybody else noticed that the same warmed-over statistics show up again and again in the most marketing books?  Shall we blame the Internet and Lexis/Nexis searches for this sudden homogeneity?). THE INFLUENTIALS, on the other hand, shares primary research data on the American consumer going back 30 years or more.  Berry's and Keller's  insights and recommendations are shaped by the evolving opinions of Americans. The horse is before the cart where the horse belongs.  <br />Interspersed with the data and trend analysis, Berry and Keller introduce in mini-bios to actual  Influentials.  These particularly well-written sections serve to  embody the data, (the data sections can get a little overwhelming at times) and show us how an Influential lives, thinks and leads.  Most are local community leaders, or have real involvement in their communities, and and as such are the nodes of wide personal networks.  They are the people who get things done, the people to whom others look to for advice or counsel.  By the way, over the years, about 10% of Americans have ?qualified? by their behavior to be counted as Influentials.  The definition of an Influential is based on a question about people's political and other civic behavior that Roper has been asking since the 1920s, and has been updating ever since to reflect changing times.  <br />Now it could be argued that the Roper definition of what constitutes an influential American is antiquated, no longer applicable in the post-modern era.  Forinstance it could be said that the influence of super-empowered individuals (to use Thomas Friedman's term) has been magnified in our hypermediated age to such an extent that \\"celebrities\\" now have exponentially more sway over how we choose to think, to live, to dream than any local influential.  A good point, but Keller and Berry do not reject the influence of the celebrity and celebrity brand culture.  They answer that that Roper Influentials are not only leaders in the sense that others look to them for political or community leadership, but that non-Influentials also look to them for guidance on most consumer goods and entertainment because Influentials also tend to be early adopters of  new goods, services and culture.  In other words, Influentials serve as an early warning system for those trends that other Americans will get to a six months to a year or so later.  <br />What's really impressive about THE INFLUENTIALS is that Berry and Keller share so much data.  That runs counter to another kind of marketing book that readers in this field will recognize -- the marketing books as  \\"teaser.\\"  In this type of marketing trends book, the reader is told that the insights offered in the books are based on years of trend data, presumably similar to that found in THE INFLUENTIALS.  This type of marketing trends book then indicates that the real information is only available to the clients of the writers. They go on to cite case studies where organizations have used the data to effect stellar marketing programs and boost profit.  In other words, now you?ve got to buy their consulting services to get the real information and the real help you need.   In THE INFLUENTIALS, it's all there - sometimes actually too much is there - but that's certainly better than books that are empty shells, \\"door openers\\" for standard consulting services.   <br />All in all a solid, well-conceived, time-tested and amply proven marketing paradigm.  A rare treat.	2003-05-06
US	50506686	R3IAUQLFCC9YE	0809041189	112013987	1831: Year of Eclipse	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Uneasy Equipoise	In 1831 YEAR OF ECLIPSE, Lewis Masur suggests that 1831 was perhaps the pivotal year between the post-revolutionary era when America was busy enacting the promises of its great contracts, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and enjoying its new freedoms inscribed therein, and the pre-Civil War era, when all the underlying social and economic tensions submerged in those documents boiled to the surface. <br />Skillfully he shows how these tensions were manifested in Nat Turner's rebellion, the founding of THE LIBERATOR by William Lloyd Garrison, the radical religious fervor of Charles Finney, the evangelist, and the industrial utopianism of Robert Dale Owen. He shows the rise of the anti-elite democrats as exemplified through Andrew Jackson's fight with the Federalists over the Bank of the United States, and the power of social censure as practiced by Washington's social elite when they forced Jackson's \\"firing\\" of certain cabinet members who condoned another member's too hasty remarriage after his first wife's death. The Anti Masonic convention in Baltimore in 1831-1832 is emblematic of the seizure of power from the Federalists. He shows us how the genocide of the Cherokee's Trail of Tears was prompted by designs of speculators for their land, and how Marshall and the Supreme Court acceded to those expansionist desires through a peculiar reading of the status of the Cherokee status as a \\"nation\\" was revised to \\"citizens\\" so they could be removed at will. The Nullification \\"movement\\" over tariffs also came to head, and though the South did not withdraw from the Union, the States Rights doctrine which became the ideology of the slavocracy was put definitively into play. <br />The chapter covering abolition and slavery, especially the pithy telling of the Nat Turner story and the furor and fear this small \\"revolution\\" set off is particularly well-told. Particularly striking is that Turner (who had taught himself to read) saw in the 1831 solar eclipse aportent from heaven that it was time to kill his oppressors. Using the lessons of the Bible, he cast himself as a redeemer who would free his people through a conflagration and bloodshed. Although the revolution was short-lived, Turner's rebellion had an enormous impact on Southern fears, serving to reinforce and justify the prevailing military and concentration camp culture. At the same time, Garrison's \\"Liberator\\" began to become a thorn in the side of slavers who considered such tracts as direct interference in their business. The Liberator and other abolitionist newspapers, books and tracts are banned from circulation by the slavocracy.<br />Masur amply shows that America in 1831, the promises of the revolution were being enacted in ways the Founding Fathers could not have foreseen and would not have endorsed. Contrary to their program, where a benevolent oligarchy of elite planter and merchant families would administer America to the obedient masses, a new more democratic America was taking shape. Max Weber, according to Lipset in \\"American Exceptionalism\\" believed changinng liberal societies be likened to a game of dice where the dice were \\"loaded\\" by tradition. And as time went on the dice became more and more \\"loaded\\" as the accretions of time and custom were sedimented into the society, eventually creating framing stories and commonsense views that closed the foundations of society to debate. 1831 was a watershed year, a year in which some sluices were opened and others closed, a time when the roiling waters of liberty and democracy were undermining the foundations of elites, when the promises of revolutionary America were being extended to, revoked from, or taken up focibly by its people. It is a fascinating time, and \\"1831 Year of Eclipse\\" lays out the key events of this era with admirable clarity.	2003-05-05
US	50506686	R3FMCK1TFREALP	0674009134	356837728	The Anarchy of Empire in the Making of U.S. Culture (Convergences (Cambridge, Mass.).)	Books	4	61	63	N	N	Installing the Circuits of Empire	In THE ANARCHY OF EMPIRE IN THE MAKING OF US CULTURE Ms. Kaplan has put together a number of illuminating readings of selected American texts as a way to explore the beginnings of empire, its expression in the U.S. in the mid to late 19th century.  Her sources range from women's magazine's such as Harper's, works by Twain and W.E.B. du Bois, through \\"Birth of a Nation\\" to Welle's \\"Citizen Kane.\\"  She shows how the boundaries of empire were drawn, and how no one was were untouched by its discourse whether they recognized its contours or not.<br />She begins with a discussion of Mark Twain's first real assignment as a newspaperman: writing \\"letters\\" from Hawaii that were published in a San Francisco newspaper intended to promote the island to mainland businessmen and settlers.  These letters and his observations later formed the basis of his first lectures and thus served as the springboard to his later career as a novelist.  Twain, she notes, in his personal letters to friends and family is drawn to and repelled by the exotic, anxious to witness the rites of the dying Hawaiian people before they pass from history, and at the same time scandalized by their cultural practices, such as their lascivious dancing. Known generally now as an anti-colonialist because of an article he wrote during the Spanish American War(s), she demonstrates how he, knowingly, and with no little anxiety, early on recognized he was implicated in the colonial project.  On the sea voyage to Hawaii, for instance, he comes down with a bad cold, and mordantly writes to a friend that the illness he bears may kill off a few more thousand more Hawaiians.  Kaplan maintains that Twain's exposure to empire in the color line in Hawaii and the exploitation of that people, (a quite different experience from how he experienced the color line in Missouri), laid the foundation for his later perspective and production of \\"Huckleberry Finn\\" some twenty years later.<br />Other key readings include the first full-length films produced during the \\"Spanish-American War Mania\\" when documentary footage of U.S. soldiers was mixed with some staged battles and scripted domestic scenes drew huge audiences to the movies.  She suggests that the public happily participated in the jingoistic pursuit of empire through these films, and that these productions laid the groundwork for not just the war movie genre, but the full-length film.  Prior to these movies, shorts were the order of the day.  She notes these films influenced the structure and visual imagery of \\"The Birth of a Nation\\" in 1915, which, if you haven't seen it recently, presents African Americans as the lords of misrule in the American South.  Encapsulated in all these cultural productions are the portrayals of non-white men as stupid, power-crazed savages who in their grab at power, attempt to deflower the flower of the white womanhood, while non-white women are seen as exotic and erotically destabilizing.  The Birth of a Nation casts the Klan as heroic figures who must preserve civilization through lynching, terror and mayhem.  The Rough Riders were seen as masculine white heroes who swept away the decadent vestiges of a cruel empire, freeing Filipinos and Cubans who as non-whites and subjugated peoples could not understand or appreciate the boon of freedom that had been conferred upon them.<br />Orson Welle's \\"Citizen Kane,\\" the fictionalized life of Henry Luce, is also examined as critique of the circuits of imperial power.  She notes that it is one of the few films that even touches on the Spanish American War as a subject, but that this war was central to Luce's creation of his own media empire.  Making the point that the yellow press grew to prominence during this era, repeating the story that Hearst started the war in Cuba to sell newspapers, she shows how the media supported the drive toward empire, and in their cultural productions assigned roles to citizens.<br />Her larger point is that empire is not a one way street, but rather is complex circuit through which the dreams of the imperial power are modified and altered through contact with the Other.  Through her examination of W.E. DuBois, she summarizes his view that WWI was not centered in a dispute between European powers but that it grew out of Africa.  By decentering the standard narrative, he rewrites the conflict as the history as growing out of the contact of Europe with Africa.  This chapter nicely resonates with her introduction She relates through a Supreme Court decision how Puerto Rico was both a possession, and not a possession, holding it through law at arm's length -- a place in which it still resides, in a limbo as both dependent and quasi-independent.  A similar judgment was made during the 1830s by the Supreme Court when they ruled that the Cherokee was not a nation in the strict sense, but a dependent population so that they could be uprooted and sent forth on the Trail of Tears.  (See the book \\"1831\\" Year of Eclipse\\" by Louis Masur for the history behind that similarly ambiguous decision.<br />This is a thoughtful book to which full justice cannot be given in a short review.  Her location of the Spanish American War as a key node in America's consolidation of its colonial aspirations is important and convincingly done.  As a chapter in history, the Spanish American War(s) has always been dismissed as a minor episode, portrayed as the U.S. trying on the role of the colonizer during the colonial era's last gasp, an activity for which as a democracy it was ill suited.  What Kaplan shows is that it was a rehearsal for a different kind of imperialism, the stimulation of the American middle-class through narratives of power as presented through the media, and the later colonization of the world through the globalization construct put forth under the rubric of democracy and free trade.one way street, but rather is complex circuit through which the dreams of the imperial power are modified and altered through contact with the Other.  Through her examination of W.E. DuBois, she summarizes his view that WWI was not centered in a dispute between European powers but that it grew out of Africa.  By decentering the standard narrative, he rewrites the conflict as the history as growing out of the contact of Europe with Africa.  This chapter nicely resonates with her introduction She relates through a Supreme Court decision how Puerto Rico was both a possession, and not a possession, holding it through law at arm's length -- a place in which it still resides, in a limbo as both dependent and quasi-independent.   A similar judgment was made during the 1830s by the Supreme Court when they ruled that the Cherokee was not a nation in the strict sense, but a dependent population so that they could be uprooted and sent forth on the Trail of Tears.  (See the book \\"1831\\" Year of Eclipse\\" by Louis Masur for the history behind that similarly ambiguous decision.<br />This is a thoughtful book to which full justice cannot be given in a short review.  Her location of the Spanish American War as a key node in America's consolidation of its colonial aspirations is important and convincingly done.  As a chapter in history, the Spanish American War(s) has always been dismissed as a minor episode, portrayed as the U.S. trying on the role of the colonizer during the colonial era's last gasp, an activity for which as a democracy it was ill suited.  What Kaplan shows is that it was a rehearsal for a different kind of imperialism, the stimulation of the American middle-class through narratives of power as presented through the media, and the later colonization of the world through the globalization construct put forth under the rubric of democracy and free trade.	2003-05-03
US	50506686	R1XDZZLTG2L1BC	0300090005	485312245	Enemies Within: The Culture of Conspiracy in Modern America	Books	5	32	43	N	N	Power Tools	ENEMIES WITHIN affords deep insight into the gothic \\"conspiricism\\" that has infected our public discourse in the United States. Countersubversives such as Robert Welch, founder of the John Birch Society, Louis Farrakhan, Pat Robertson, and various writers like Whitley Strieber all have used conspiricism to rally the troops (or consumers) to their various causes, to suppress or destroy rivals, to form power bases through an insurgency against the mainstream, and to make money. American as apple pie, they are enacting the same \\"paranoid style\\" first described by Richard Hofstadter in the aftermath of the McCarthy era, a style which was initiated by the likes of Thomas Paine, Jefferson, and in later generations by the Anti-Masonic movement in 1820s New York, and the Know Nothings a generation later. <br />Goldberg argues that Hofstadter's theory looks in retrospect too bound to the ideas of deviant psychology popular after WWII. Instead, he sees conspiricism, rightly, I think, as a struggle for power. To demonstrate his thesis, he takes five well-known recent examples of conspiracy thinking: the \\"master conspiracy\\" (i.e. the Birchites Robert Welch's fabrication of the New World Order which postulates an elite who run the world through the Trilateral Commission and the Council on Foreign relations, \\" \\"The Rise of the Antichrist (exampled through Pat Robertson's take on Revelations), \\"The View from the Grassy Knoll\\" (the Kennedy assassination), \\"Jewish Devils and the War on Black America\\" (a brief history of the exploitation of the exploitation of the ill-feeling between Louis Farrakhan and Jews, and \\"The Roswell Incident\\" (the \\"cover-up\\" of the alien invasion in 1947, and the mainstreaming of these theories through TV -- the X-Files, Independence Day, etc.)<br />What's fascinating is that Goldberg shows how these various conspiracy often borrow from and reinforce each other. The KKK, Farrakhan and Robertson, for instance, all point to the \\"Jewish banking conspiracy\\" orZOG of running the world, pulling the strings behind the scenes, duping the masses into thinking the governments they live under have any real power while the real masters start wars, and kill national leaders like Kennedy when those leaders interfere with their grand designs. Farrakhan, like those who accuse the government of a disinformation campaign over the so-called Roswell incident, teaches his followers that there is \\"mother plane\\" circling the earth, ready to pick up the faithful when the time of tribulation ends, a strand of belief that links them also to the revelations scenario of Robertson and other millenialist preachers. <br />Goldberg summarizes all these discourses with admirable clarity, showing how all use using circular logic, exclude other explanations, and, in the process form dense self-referential webs of commentary that cannot be breached by reason. Whether its the Illuminati, ZOG, the hand-picked members of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Masons, or aliens who have infiltrated the highest reaches of power, the story is always the same: a powerful elite whose only scruple is the preservation of power, and the making of profits is behind everything. Conspiricism, in Goldberg's view, offers the faithful complete and seamless explanations for the radical discontinuities and fragmentation of modern and post-modern existence. <br />He also shows how the entertainment industry has found this all very profitable. The mainstream media has learned from Oliver Stone's remake of the Kennedy assassination, that rewriting history to conform to fringe theories can capture the public imagination, and more important, loose the purse strings. Conspiracy theories have also been mainstreamed by U.S. corporations notes Goldberg, such as U-Haul, which uses the standard bulb-headed, big-eyed alien icon on the side of its New Mexico trailers and moving vans as emblematic of that state. <br />Goldberg notes with equanimity that there have been cover-ups fostered by government bureaucrats, and that these cover-ups have eroded the public's faith in its institutions, i.e., the infiltration of the FBI into the Black Panthers, the Black Muslims, or the paranoid scrutiny of Martin Luther King by Hoover's men, the black men whose syphilis was never treated in Tuskegee as part of an \\"experiment,\\" etc. Given these abuses of power, Goldberg says conspiricism gains in credibility and influence. At the same time, he argues that this conspiricism is serving to debilitate belief in government to an unwarranted extent. When Ronald Reagan expressed the idea that \\"government is not the solution, but that it is the problem,\\" he gave voice to a group of countersubversives that later managed to make David Koresh a hero, who spun a web of egregious nonsense about Vincent Foster's suicide to support and extend their attacks on the Clintons and, in the process, driven nearly mad with hatred, turned the U.S. government into a machine to wreak vengeance on a too-amorous young woman and her prevaricating paramour. <br />He notes the proliferation of \\"Gates\\" from the original \\"Watergate,\\" to include such \\"conspiracies\\" as \\"Whitewatergate,\\" \\"Travelgate,\\" \\"Irangate,\\" has blurred them all into one messy symbol of the business-as-usual corruption of the U.S. government, when in fact some of these events did constitute abuses of power, while many more did not. What countersubeversives know is that if you can get your label to stick to an issue, a label that either contains the seed of your side of the argument or negatively characterizes your opponents side, you have already half won the battle. Thus the jockeying around such phrases as \\"Tort Reform,\\" which more correctly should be called \\"The Liability Ceiling Law.\\"<br />Conspiracy thinking is not new in America. But, Goldberg notes, the intensity of this type of thinking has picked up considerably the past five decades. Most recently, he says, driven by an insatiable desire for profits, the purveyorsof infotainment have raised the volume of conspiricist claims to such a pitch that it is difficult to advance less scabrous theories against them. Reasonable theories don't draw audiences, he suggests. They can't sell ad space. They don't foster fanaticism, build mass support, or scare into submission citizens or politicians who hold opposing views.	2003-03-09
US	50506686	R2HMAW3SZ8VC6P	1890951323	737384358	Solitary Sex: A Cultural History of Masturbation	Books	4	39	50	N	N	Only the Lonely?	If you can have sex by yourself, and you're not either procreating, or making money at trying to arrest or rechannel such behavior, you pose a threat -- or at least you did back in the 17th and 18th centuries.  Heck, even the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries.  Exploring how masturbation was viewed in different eras according to the ontological horizon of each era, LaQueur gives a kind of x-ray of the politics, morals, and economic assumptions of each age.  In the early Enlightenment days when Bentham's utilitarianism held sway, for instance, there could be no justification for solitary sex as it did not lead to anything \\"productive\\"(except, of course to pleasure). Four hundred years later, it is still policed as a \\"guilty pleasure,\\" but since pleasure has been liberated as a virtue unto itself in the consumption society, thus masturbation has been transformed.  And if it has not been fully transformed into a social good, then it has been been promoted as a valid personal choice, though still suspect.  Well and simply written for an academic title with great illustrations.	2003-03-04
US	50506686	R85S3HW9HAZT3	0691089825	115625930	After Liberalism: Mass Democracy in the Managerial State.	Books	2	12	41	N	N	Yesterday's News	Warmed over Weber.  The usual \\"nice\\" distinctions between liberalism and democracy, and the endorsement of populism a la the neocons and Leo Strauss. You can almost mistake it for a postmodern lefty critique. And in many ways there are overlaps in the conservative agenda which celebrates localism and tradition, and the post-modern left which celebrates the same thing under different and catchier names. But there's a few early tip-offs that the map given in the intro is not the territory covered in the book.<br />There's the apparent acceptance of the bad science behind the \\"The Bell Curve\\" coming early on. It seems like muddy thinking or maybe just a slip. But then there's the discussion of Carl Schmitt's ideas. Gottfried's discussion of Schmitt makes him seem like an interesting theorist, but he never mentions Schmitt was a poster boy for the Nazis of the \\"good intellectual.\\" Not an automatic disqualifier, but still something Gottfried should have mentioned. Then, the very careful discussion of Le Pen. Which I enjoyed and thought had some good insights, but still was not completely honest in its assessment of Le Pen.<br />I picked up this book partly because of the positive blurb by John Lukacs on the cover (and also quoted here I see.) I like John Lukacs as an historian and read his autobiography. One of the things I was attracted to in Lukacs was that he (as a European conservative) truly despised Reagan's policies. <br />I can see therefore why Lukacs would like some parts of this book, especially Gottfried's characterization of the therapeutic managerial state as an entity that both the Left and Right endorse and use to advance their agendas. In Reagan's case, the welfare part of the welfare state was squeezed, and the military-industrial part of the managerial state was given a big bonus. In either case, he used the mechanism of the managerial state to enforce his will regardless of ends -- the means of the managerial state is the same. <br />There's some thought-provoking stuff in here, and I appreciated the attempt to find some larger framework to discuss the biggest problem confronting politics today -- that no one is very interested anymore, a problem which Gottfried I think lays properly at the door of the managerial state. And I appreciated that he found some of the old lefty sociologists and historians of value such as C. Wright Mills and Christopher Lasch. But all in all except for the one insight of the existence of the managerial state fleshed out with the usual suspects, this is pretty thin gruel. Worth the $...I paid at a used book store, but just barely. If you really want to understand the history and power of the managerial state and its adoption of the therapeutic mode, read Kafka.	2003-02-18
US	50506686	R5QKPUORNDQCA	0520205685	919518910	Habits of the Heart: Individualism and Commitment in American Life	Books	5	48	53	N	N	Sorting It All Out	HABITS OF THE HEART is a tour de force whose insights into America are as relevant today as they were nearly twenty years ago when the book was published.  It was hailed at that time as an instant classic of sociology, and compared to such influential works as MIDDLETOWN and THE LONELY CROWD.  If anything, its insights are even more pertinent now. <br />The subtitle \\"Individualism and Commitment in American Life\\" is the main trope guiding the book, a bipolar perspective that neatly describes the American inability to reconcile the \\"utilitarian individualism\\" of Hobbes' \\"war of all against all\\" as exemplified in the liberal economic philosophy that grew up with America, with the \\"expressive individualism\\" of Whitman and Emerson which developed as a reaction to (in Henry James'' words), the \\"grope of wealth.\\"  The final chapter which elucidates \\"Six American Visions of the Public Good\\" describing them as three pairs of conflicting visions: \\"The Establishment versus Populism,\\" \\"Neocapitalism versus Welfare Liberalism\\" and \\"The Administered Society versus Economic Democracy\\" is the best example of this dualist view of America, but as Bellah and his fellow authors describe it, these competing visions often hold as many similarities as differences.  <br />Specifically, from the latter 19th century until the depression both The Establishment and Populists recognized there was and needed to be a moral component in American public life.  The Establishment side was represented Andrew Carnegie's \\"Gospel of Wealth,\\" while on the Populist side were economic socialists such as Eugene Debs.  The mores of the that time, de Toqueville's \\"habits of the heart,\\" were still moralistic, still partaking of the ideal of the legacy of Jefferson's freeholding citizen even capitalism shook America off its foundations.  <br />Of the next pair, Neocapitalism (which rose to its greatest heights in the form of Ronald Reagan) and Welfare Liberalism (exemplified by FDR), while they have different means look to the same ends according the authors.   The first seeks to empower citizens through the \\"war of all against all\\" and keep the country competitive by unraveling the safety net.  Slackers and failures must not be encouraged to take advantage of the winners because it is morally debilitating for society as a whole.  Welfare Liberalism on the other hand believes that the net should be stronger because it has less confidence in the Market God believes in better chances and social justice, but still views Americans as individuals who must be encouraged in the Hobbesian war. <br />Of the last two visions,  Felix Rohatyn, is the poster boy for the Administered Society -- a continuation of the Progressive ideal of scientific \\"mastery\\" a la Lippman, while Michael Harrington represents Economic Democracy.  As compared to Rohaytn, who endorses a \\"partnership\\" of elites who work to adjust and balance the multiplicitous machine of political, economic and social interests, Harrington would spread out the decision making to at least nominally include the people.  Harrington admits this would require a massive reorientation of consciousness -- an unlikely event in the view of the authors.  But ultimately the authors say both sides endorse a similar kind of governance by expert, without moral content.   The authors saw this last pair dimly stirring when they wrote this book in the mid-80s.  Their prediction is perhaps half true as we have also witnessed the covert reassertion of NeoCapitalism in the last three administrations, if especially the current administration. <br />This dualistic strategy is supplemented by the touchstone use of Alexis de Toqueville's political and sociological insights to show how the seeds of much of American life today were sown early on.   A fairly effective narrative trope, it serves their often stated goal of showing that it is through our shared history, our communities of memory, that we may see how others confronted the shifting landscapes of political economy, that we may today find a way to stop or at least hold at bay, in the words of Habermas, the \\"invasion of the lifeworld by systems logic.\\"  They maintain that such a course cannot be found through nostalgia for older institutions that once stood athwart the Mega-State.  Many of those institutions, such as traditional churches, were paternalistic and discriminatory.  Still social movements such as abolitionism grew out of them and were sustained by them.  To recognize how the message of freedom forged by the founding generation has been reforged into a double-edged sword to enforce radical individualism, and destroy religious and republican morality and virtue.   Government by a managerial elite, a kind of \\"democratic despotism\\" which de Toqueville saw as a potential of individualistic American mores has arrived. <br />As an example of the earlier language of America, they cite as an example Martin Luther King deployment of the language of the Bible and republican virtue in his \\"I Have A Dream\\" speech.  His ringing biblical cadences, his use of \\"My Country 'Tis of Thee,\\" and the words of the old Negro spiritual: \\"free at last, free at last, thank God Almighty I'm free at last,\\" evoked our foundational civic and religious language.  Bellah, like King, helps us remember and recapture the earlier language of America. <br />Along the way they also trace the politically neutralizing penetration of the individualistic \\"therapeutic mode\\" into religious life, the loss of \\"communities of memory\\" based on shared values, along with the \\"second language\\" of religious and republican virtue.  All have which have acted to depoliticize American culture.  Where once there was a language of sin and redemption, there is now only the therapeutic language of the self, a radical self which is encouraged by the therapeutic mode to consider one's self and one's happiness as paramount and thus mirrors and supports the ideology of the free market. We richly deserve theoxymoronic label of \\"private citizen.\\"	2003-02-11
US	50506686	R1EGLZ8UMV57IX	0375407502	604131806	A Consumers' Republic: The Politics of Mass Consumption in Postwar America	Books	5	39	39	N	N	The End of Citizenship	From Simon Patten's reworking of the theory of supply and demand into his the theory of  consumption at the beginning of the 20th century,  Americans have been steadily moved away from citizenship to consumership.  Lizabeth Cohen charts the stimulation of desire, describes the segmentation of the American public by marketers, real estate developers and political consultants, and traces the  deleterious effects of this fragmentation upon the public sphere.  She shows with detailed examples and masses of  research how this discourse was created and supported by both the government and the corporation, as well as the public, and how in the process the rights of citizens were transformed into the pale substitute of consumer rights.  Particularly thought-provoking is her thesis that the segmentation of the market happened in concert with the end of mass political movements, and how polictical movements are now indistinguishable from consumer movements.  Well writen, with good illustrations.	2003-02-08
US	50506686	R30N7KYJD8FEO1	0520205685	919518910	Habits of the Heart: Individualism and Commitment in American Life	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Radical Individualism Smooths Birth of Mega-State	HABITS OF THE HEART is a tour de force whose insights into America are as relevant today as they were nearly twenty years ago when the book was published.  It was hailed at that time as an instant classic of sociology, and compared to such influential works as MIDDLETOWN and THE LONELY CROWD.  If anything, its insights are even more pertinent now.   It endures because it wrestles with America's eternal contradictions.  Given the persistence of these contradictions and their cynical exploitation by those in power over the past two decades, it remains as fresh and compelling as the day it was published.  <br />The subtitle \\"Individualism and Commitment in American Life\\" is the main trope guiding the book, a bipolar perspective that neatly describes the American inability to reconcile the \\"utilitarian individualism\\" of Hobbes' \\"war of all against all\\" as exemplified in the liberal economic philosophy that grew up with America, with the \\"expressive individualism\\" of Whitman and Emerson which developed as a reaction to (in Henry James'' words), the \\"grope of wealth.\\"  The final chapter which elucidates \\"Six American Visions of the Public Good\\" describing them as three pairs of conflicting visions: \\"The Establishment versus Populism,\\" \\"Neocapitalism versus Welfare Liberalism\\" and \\"The Administered Society versus Economic Democracy.\\"  But because they are dualistic does not mean they are exclusive categories.  As Bellah and his fellow authors describe it, these competing visions often hold as many similarities as differences.  <br />Specifically, from the latter 19th century until the depression both The Establishment and Populists recognized there was and needed to be a moral component in American public life.  The Establishment side was represented Andrew Carnegie's \\"Gospel of Wealth,\\" while on the Populist side were economic socialists such as Eugene Debs.  The mores of the that time, de Toqueville's \\"habits of the heart,\\" were still moralistic, still partaking of the ideal of the legacy of Jefferson's freeholding citizen even capitalism shook America off its foundations.  <br />Of the next pair, Neocapitalism (which rose to its greatest heights in the form of Ronald Reagan) and Welfare Liberalism (exemplified by FDR), while they have different means look to the same ends according the authors.   The first seeks to empower citizens through the \\"war of all against all\\" and keep the country competitive by unraveling the safety net.  Slackers and failures must not be encouraged to take advantage of the winners because it is morally debilitating for society as a whole.  Welfare Liberalism on the other hand believes that the net should be stronger because it has less confidence in the Market God believes in better chances and social justice, but still views Americans as individuals who must be encouraged in the Hobbesian war. <br />Of the last two visions,  Felix Rohatyn, is the poster boy for the Administered Society -- a continuation of the Progressive ideal of scientific \\"mastery\\" a la Lippman, while Michael Harrington represents Economic Democracy.  As compared to Rohaytn, who endorses a \\"partnership\\" of elites who work to adjust and balance the multiplicitous machine of political, economic and social interests, Harrington would spread out the decision making to at least nominally include the people.  Harrington admits this would require a massive reorientation of consciousness -- an unlikely event in the view of the authors.  But ultimately the authors say both sides endorse a similar kind of governance by expert, without moral content.   The authors saw this last pair dimly stirring when they wrote this book in the mid-80s.  Their prediction is perhaps half true as we have also witnessed the covert reassertion of NeoCapitalism in the last three administrations, if especially the current administration. <br />Along the way they also trace the politically neutralizing penetration of the individualistic \\"therapeutic mode\\" into religious life, the loss of \\"communities of memory\\" based on shared values, along with the \\"second language\\" of religious and republican virtue.  All have which have acted to depoliticize American culture.  Where once there was a language of sin and redemption, there is now only the therapeutic language of the self, a radical self which is encouraged by the therapeutic mode to consider one's self and one's happiness as paramount and thus mirrors and supports the ideology of the free market. We richly deserve the oxymoronic label of \\"private citizen.\\"  <br />This dualistic strategy is supplemented by the touchstone use of Alexis de Toqueville's political and sociological insights to show how the seeds of much of American life today were sown early on.   A fairly effective narrative trope, it serves their often stated goal of showing that it is through our shared history, our communities of memory, that we may see how others confronted the shifting landscapes of political economy, that we may today find a way to stop or at least hold at bay, in the words of Habermas, the \\"invasion of the lifeworld by systems logic.\\"  They maintain that such a course cannot be found through nostalgia for older institutions that once stood athwart the Mega-State.  Many of those institutions, such as traditional churches, were paternalistic and discriminatory.  Still social movements such as abolitionism grew out of them and were sustained by them.  To recognize how the message of freedom forged by the founding generation has been reforged into a double-edged sword to enforce radical individualism, and destroy religious and republican morality and virtue.   Government by a managerial elite, a kind of \\"democratic despotism\\" which de Toqueville saw as a potential of individualistic American mores has arrived. <br />As an example of the earlier language of America, they cite as an example Martin Luther King deployment of the language of the Bible and republican virtue in his \\"I Have A Dream\\" speech.  His ringing biblical cadences, his use of \\"My Country 'Tis of Thee,\\" and the words of the old Negro spiritual: \\"free at last, free at last, thank God Almighty I'm free at last,\\" evoked our foundational civic and religious language.  Bellah, like King, helps us remember and recapture the earlier language of America.	2003-02-01
US	50506686	R2IBZJ7HNVN995	0312126891	459697054	Leo Strauss and the American Right	Books	5	132	149	N	N	Postmodern Conservativism	The chief insight offered by Shadia Drury in LEO STRAUSS AND THE AMERICAN RIGHT is that Leo Strauss's political philosophy is a radical variant of conservatism whose assumptions and strategies are at odds with traditional conservatism.  While both Straussian and Burkean philosophy appear similar in that they both make the assumption that the only choice is between a beneficent plutocracy and anarchy, the Straussians are unsentimental about the past, rejecting the older conservative view that naturalizes pre-modern hierarchy and the inequalities preserved therein as intrinsic to and representative of mankind.  Straussians are instead post-modern activists, who use the past as repository from which to cull whatever elements are necessary to build whatever institutional machine is necessary to regulate lesser mortals.  They imagine themselves as an intellectual pastorate who must defend society against the depredations of liberalism -- that socially disruptive idea which insists on equality of opportunity and justice.<br />According to Drury, Strauss's philosophy accepts the death of God, (unlike traditional conservatism) and then moves positivistically (unlike traditional conservatism) to fill the vacuum with elite group of self-elected philosopher kings.  This elite, alive to the nihilism of the liberal ethos and its potentially anarchic consequences, believes it must act forcefully to paper over the hole left by His demise.  Their esoteric/exoteric readings of philosophy tell them they must forge from the ashes a seamless, monocultural machine to encourage obedience and staunch chaos.  This nationalistic machine must be equipped with a religion (any religion) and a mythic culture based on flag-reverence and knee-jerk patriotism. This is necessary because pluralistic, liberal societies cannot meet the challenge posed by well-organized, culturally cohesive states.  Because the mass of men are primitive, credulous, prone to error and evil, the state with the best machine necessarily will win.  Straussians, unlike traditional conservatives who see the state as malevolent, justify their activism by insisting that as philosophers they are immune to temptations of power.  <br />According to Drury, a particularly striking strategy of Straussian conservatives is their struggle to identify and mythologize American traditions. She points out that while Burke had the last remnants of feudalism to extol as a naturally just system, American conservatives have been forced to create a ?traditional? America out of whole cloth.  To do so, according the Drury, Strauss's followers have invaded history departments across the US where they have been working hard to uncover \\"tradition\\" in the beginnings of America ? a difficult task given that America was the first truly modernist state.  Nevertheless, these historians, depending upon which ax they are grinding, rewrite American history either to prove that colonial America was feudal, or to prove the Founding Fathers were not Deists and creatures of the (Liberal) Enlightenment, but rather Platonists. Drury notes that like postmodernists on the left, Straussians believe there is no ultimate truth, but that instead there are only discourses of power and that whoever controls the discourse wins.  She notes that this is what makes American politics so narrow and so tedious -- the right and the left both operate from the same morally bankrupt premise.  <br />This goes a long way toward explaining the bizarre combination of libertarianism and fundamentalism in neo-conservative thought.  Like other dogmas which have been used to support those in power -- Social Darwinism and eugenics come to mind --  neoconservatism is just the latest apologia for the up-to-date reactionary. Notably, its adherents are generally unaware of the contradiction.  This does not deter them from defending this instrumental hodgepodge of Ayn Rand \\"objectivism\\" and millenarian \\"revivalism\\" however.  Such a philosophy is, of course,its own best self-satirization.   <br />Well-written, its conclusions careful and amply defended, LEO STRAUSS AND THE AMERICAN RIGHT, is not the ravings of conspiracy theorist.  It does not imagine that Straussians have come to run the United States, nor that they form a secret cult which pulls the strings behind the scene.  It exposes rather the infiltration of post-modern intellectual cynicism into the once decent, and even honorable, Republican Party.	2003-01-03
US	50506686	RKHAIQZAQQQAK	0521816173	463121967	Kennedy and the Promise of the Sixties	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Postmodernism Begins	In KENNEDY AND THE PROMISE OF THE SIXTIES, Rorabaugh does a good job of supporting his thesis that the Kennedy administration, though short, was a critical era during which today's postmodern politics, culture, art and literature were born.  In politics, it was Kennedy's reliance upon image marketing and private (his father's) money that undid the old backroom deals of the earlier political structure.  Also, the civil rights movement came into new prominence in the March on Washington, the women's movement was reborn in its train, Pop Art replaced Abstract Expressionism, and Beat literature and the Folk music boomed. <br />Rorabaugh credits the Kennedy administration for encouraging a break with the introverted, conformist world of the 50s -- giving tacit permission to a new extrovert culture where how one felt could be more freely expressed.  It was an \\"inside out\\" time, he argues, which unleashed great optimism and creativity, but chaos and uncertainty as well.  He neatly traces the early 1950s rumblings of political and social dissatisfaction against the bland bourgeoisie pursuits of money-making and family raising, showing how that earlier era set the stage for the early 60s explosion of the civil rights movement, and identity politics.  He shows how the pursuit of social justice combined with the pursuit of radical non-conformity were tacitly endorsed during that era as an antidote to the anti-communist panics as practiced most famously by McCarthy and Nixon.<br />But of course there was a darker side to the new \\"inside out\\" world Kennedy helped create: image politics were born -- a politics of money and marketing.  He points out that Kennedy's platform was not a platform as much as it was a positioning against the previous administration.  Kennedy merely promised he would \\"get the country moving again,\\" talked provocatively of a (non-existent) missile gap.  The Kennedy's used the media brilliantly and the media, especially television, used them.  For the mediarecognized in Kennedy a perfect mythic story - Camelot - and could not get enough of Jackie, the kids, and the young president himself.  In the photo spreads in LIFE, the White House tours on TV, the era of celebrity politics began.<br />Rorabaugh is at his best in showing how the myths of the Kennedy image machine served to shield it from criticism then and now.  Starting with the Bay of Pigs disaster followed by the Cuban Missile Crisis, Rorabaugh shows how an administration hypnotized by its press-clippings never had any real policies, but reeled from one crisis to the next.  Rorabaugh suggests because of the administration's embarrassment in its dealings with Castro and Khrushchev, Kennedy talked tougher and committed more money to supporting the corrupt South Vietnamese government than was necessary or appropriate, and thus laid the groundwork for the disaster in Vietnam as well.  <br />The author also does a good job also of showing how Kennedy's love of intellectual brilliance and as his concentration on surface appearances got him into other kinds of trouble as well.  For example, in bringing in from private business such bureaucratic luminaries such as McNamara and the other Whiz Kids, Kennedy set a new tone of technocratic brilliance and efficiency.  Ultimately, the Whiz Kids gave bad advice to Kennedy during his two big crises with the communists, and terrible advice to Lyndon Johnson on Vietnam.  Rorabaugh notes that Sam Rayburn commented at the time that he found it difficult to work with people who'd never so much as run for sheriff.  The Washington of today is similarly filled with powerful unelected actors -- another vexed legacy of the Kennedy era.  The difference is now perhaps that these powerful actors are more likely to be lobbyists, less likely to be government employees.  <br />Rorabaugh, though he doesn't spend a lot of time on it, is particularly good on the cultural backdrop of the Kennedy years.  Especially impressive is his brief historyof the rise of Johns, Warhol, and Rauschenberg against the previous generation of Abstract Expressionists.  Celebrating the surface like their president, the pop artists fully embraced the world of mass production and consumerism, celebrating it and taking it for granted in a way that the Abstract Expressionists, steeped in the strictures of the Modernists, never could.  <br />At its best, the book serves to help demystify and put into perspective an era that seems to be recalled these days almost exclusively as hopeful and upbeat, as a kind of prelude to the storm of the \\"real 60s\\".  Rorabaugh shows that while it was an era that was filled with hope, much of that hope was mere aura created by the myth makers in the White House and an all too willing media.  Yes, most of the American people were ready for a new birth of social justice.  Yes, the Peace Corp energized a lot of young Americans.  But the high tenor of hope generated by the administration, Rorabaugh suggests, was so popular and dominant precisely because it balanced its very real and compelling opposite: the very real fear of nuclear annihilation - a fear which the Kennedy administration's ineptitude almost managed to make real.  <br />On a personal level, I recall as an elementary school kid in the early 60s that both importance of physical fitness and mathematics were strongly emphasized for young people by the administration during those years.  Kennedy told us not to ask what our country could do for us, but to ask what we could do for our country.  And we wanted to do something for our country.  At the same time we learned to clasp our necks (to keep the flying glass from a nuclear explosion from severing an artery) as we balled ourselves up like pill bugs under our little desks.  I also recall that more than anything I wanted us to be a family that had a bomb shelter.  I recall that somehow I thought that in digging a shelter I would not only help thwart the Russians, but that it would be good exercise, too.	2002-12-26
US	50506686	R36YFS962NK3SQ	0393047490	375012399	Heart of Oak: A Sailor's Life in Nelson's Navy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Voyage of Discovery	Patrick O'Brien's Aubrey and Maturin novels are unsurpassed for their historical accuracy, their swashbuckling plots, and for piquing the desire of non-sailors (like me) to learn more about the nautical technology of the Napoleonic era.  HEART OF OAK answers the need of the nautically-challenged for an illustrated glossary of this technology.  But even better, it offers both the non-sailor and sailor alike an &quot;insider's view&quot; of life on board a typical British warship of the time.  Through its brilliant photographs of common everyday items, it answers the small but nagging questions raised by O'Brien's descriptions of shipboard life, such as what did the grog cup of a common sailor look like, how big is a holystone, and what's a deadeye and how does it work?  HEART OF OAK is a great improvement over the usual dry nautical encyclopedias that merely catalog the naval equipment of the time.  Like the Aubrey and Maturin novels, it pumps blood into the sinews of history. Handsomely designed, elegantly and sparely written, McGuane has given us a treasure trove of images and visceral insights that  enhances O'Brien's works, but also stands solidly on its own as a poetic pictorial history of Nelson's navy.	2002-12-24
US	50506686	R1LVBFH2NIK0CF	0809085364	378447117	Sentimental Democracy: The Evolution of America's Romantic Self-Image	Books	3	6	8	N	N	How To Build A Mythic Discourse	In SENTIMENTAL DEMOCRACY, Burstein periodizes and knits together the diverse strands of the sentimental and mythical rhetoric of the revolutionary generation and two post-revolutionary generations immediately following. He shows how Americans adopted and modified the language of sensibility of the Sternean sentimental novel, the Protestant rhetoric of individual responsibility, and the Lockean language of personal freedom as a way to justify the break with England, what later came to be the quasi-mystical core of what has sometimes been called the \\"American Creed.\\"  <br />He works hard to note shifts and modifications in the discourse according to internal and external threats.  For example, he examines the beginning of \\"paranoid\\" era that began as factionalism crept into Washington's cabinet as Jefferson and Hamilton attempted to advance their very different views of the future of America.  He notes the beginning of \\"manifest destiny\\" in the \\"Era of Good Feeling\\" which reflected the flexing of American muscle upon \\"winning\\" the War of 1812 He finishes up by taking us up through the Jacksonian era, where the discourse changed yet again as more citizens (men) were enfranchised, and discourse of the common man destroyed the elite Federalist appeals to aristocratic honor forever. <br />The American discourse initially partook of the notion of \\"sensibility\\" from Sterne, later from Crevouceur, modern \\"men of feeling\\" who displayed manly virtue balanced with warm-hearted sympathy and generosity. (Think of a perfect Jane Austen hero). To illustrate how the \\"man of feeling\\" was used by American patriots to articulate their rights to protest the abusive behavior of King George Burstein notes contemporary sources which articulated not just the language of the rights of Englishmen, but also the sentimental language of proper behavior, and manly fellow feeling.  Burstein relates this evolving discourse through a lot of primary sources, including private letters, pamphlets, andkey texts of the time such as writings by John Adams, Jefferson, Benjamin's Franklin and Rush.  <br />Ultimately, the wide-ranging source material tends to sabotage the larger narrative about the changes in this discourse.  It requires the maximum attention of the reader to recall how any given editorial or letter or historical document is being used to illustrate a certain period in the development and evolution of this language of feeling.  Within a single paragraph, we may hear from Daniel Webster, a minor senator, a pastor and an editorialist.  Too, sometimes the changes in rhetoric seem so small as to be very little different from the period immediately before or after. So while the overall point Burstein makes about how this romantic discourse served to engage the emotions, passions and the support of Americans against their colonial masters, and how later the populists like Jefferson and Jackson and their cohorts used a variation on this language when they scuttled Adams' presidency, and later the revitalized Whig/Federalists, the sheer number of sources and relatively small shifts in discourse sometimes induces frustration.  Still it is a worthwhile and clearly important work that does fill a need in the history of the period.  Interestingly, in many ways it is similar to AFFAIRS OF HONOR, both in terms of its thesis and density.  <br />Two tidbits that I found particularly interesting in SENTIMENTAL DEMOCRACY: the persistence of the idea of the journey into the frontier of America as the journey into the 'realm of revelation,' (as dubbed recently by Furtwangler, the historian) a kind of sub-genre of the America as the Earthly Paradise genre. This is the sub-genre Lewis of Lewis & Clark used when he wrote up his notes as epiphanies, describing natural landmarks in mythic, epic language. Burstein is also good on the uses of the language of liberty and how is served as a screen (and still does) for imperial adventure.  In speaking about the discourse of the frontier, Burstein's writes: \\"'...the rhetoric of happiness and liberty masked the assertion of raw, expansive power and the neglect of non-citizens' (Indian's) natural rights and moral welfare.\\"  <br />Further, he notes how this discourse served to create of the Indians, untrustworthy, inexplicable others: 'There was no safe place in republican America for a society [Indian society] that was not actively inventing the future...' This seems an apt commentary now, too.  We hear it now most baldly in the hegemonic discourse of global business.  To wit, an example heard every morning on National Public Radio, immediately following the business news, a show sponsored by General Electric: \\"At GE we believe knowing about the global economy is everybody's business.\\"  Prior to that, I recall they were bringing good things to life, another phrase that would fit very well into the 19th century rhetoric about the \\"taming\\" of the West and the \\"cultivation\\" of the frontier.	2002-12-16
US	50506686	R2RZHWVBW67145	0029283752	302919607	Inarticulate Society: Eloquence and Culture in America	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Swimming Against the Tide	Toward the end of THE INARTICULATE SOCIETY, Schactman crystallizes America's discomfort with well-spoken individuals in a chilling insight: our TV and movie villains have become more articulate than the heroes.  Full of pungent comments like this that underline how anti-intellectualism has been promoted through the principle of the LCD (lowest common denominator) -- the conception of the American people as having the intelligence of the average fourth grader (a marketing strategy adopted by advertisers so as to appeal to the widest possible audience), Schactman shows how this conception has flooded into every facet of our public discourse.  Suggesting that those whom we have elected as our representatives have concomitantly engaged in the systematic stupidification of our political language upon the advice of highly paid communications consultants trained in the advertising, marketing and public relations industries, and in the process have sown the seeds of a disinterested, passive citizenry, Schactman, after his dead-on diagnosis, makes a series of proposals intended to resurrect democracy through the renovation of our once proud heritage of political discourse.  <br />In the course of his discussion, Schactman relates how the classic liberal society was founded upon the belief that all (male, property-owning) members of society must be engaged in the public discourse, and the corrollary that in order to be able to do so, individuals must be able to discuss complex issues articulately and persuasively.  Here is his succint summation of the rise of liberal individualism and its implications: \\"Empowering individuals regardless of class began with the revolution of Martin Luther and the Enlightenment, and found political expression in the populism of President Andrew Jackson and the 1848 nationalistic upheavals in Europe.  In the latter half of the nineteenth century, from Karl Marx's theoretical bifurcation of the population into the exploiters and the exploited arose attempts to form the exploited masses of a particular country or region into coherent groups that could agitate for change in their political and economic status.  Where the residue if feudalism held sway, nationalism also began to provide a rationale for the old feudal constituencies to cohere of the purposes of organizing themselves in nonfeudal aggregates.  Leaders whose abilities lay in mobilizing these masses came to the fore and pushed out those old-style leaders who had previously made their way up political ladders to positions of ascendancy and who saw their task only as influencing the elites.\\" Pg. 96.<br />He goes on to discuss how the Marxian analysis has been refocused in the face of the proliferation of various forms of media: \\"Jurgen Habermas insists that the center of argument about the modern world has now shifted from Marxism contentions about how industrial production is organized to an examination of how commination in societies is organized and effected.  That contention is well founded.  While a discussion about the bases of entertainment can be held without reference to the political sphere, it is no longer possible to discuss the modern political sphere without reference to communications techniques and communications technology.\\" Pg. 97<br />He further expands this particular line of argument to point the finger at a media which has all but abandoned its mandate to inform and engage the American people in the political process.  He notes also that in addition to jettisoning journalistic principles that originally posited the media as corrective to the abuses of power, the media now crowds out those who do not seek to appeal to the LCD.  In an apt metaphor which neatly depicts how there is no such thing as a neutral \\"marketplace of ideas,\\" he says:  \\"...quality (entertainment) products are few in number and power, a half-dozen rowboats struggling to stay afloat in a harbor crowded with the yachts, international freighters, and cruise shipsof the mass entertainment industry.\\" Pg. 101.<BR> <BR>But that is just the beginning of the insidious effect of the entertainment cultures effect on public discourse which, according to Schactman, views people not as citizens, but as consumers.   \\"...It is a way of thinking that presumes everything has a price, all things can be bought and sold, and therefore all things should be bought and sold.  ....No other objective--not art, not morality, not personal integrity, and certainly not the modeling of good articulate behavior--can be of importance.  Articulate behavior is not perceived as able to sell anything but itself, and as such it is useless to the commodifiers.  Inarticulate behavior, on the other hand, has been construed as something that appeals to the masses, and thus as a useful commodity.\\" Pg. 107<br />In a pincer movement, under the guise of populism, conservative elements attack articulate culture as unmanly, villianous.  This strategy supports and cheers their unreconstructed supporters who have been raised on the myths of the tight-lipped gunslinger, the man of few words, the man of action.  Think of the current administration where lack of articulateness is promoted as a virture, where tough talk is portrayed as emblematic of American character and American resolve.  Schactman argues that in the face of a society that promotes inarticulate behavior, that it is up to every individual and every family to resurrect and nuture this dying virture.  He also suggests that those in government should lead us by example into a newly articulate age.  That would be welcome, but as it does not seem to serve the political and economic goals of the governing class -- who sell themselves as commodities and enable the market culture to pervade every aspect of our lives -- the adoption of this particular proposition seems seems doubtful.  Nevertheless, here's a slogan I offer that may be of use to those who seek to resurrect a country founded by intellectuals and bomb-throwers: Representation without taxation is tyranny.	2002-12-02
US	50506686	RIORX3227AYQ8	0873190386	398662382	The Memoirs of a Superfluous Man	Books	1	33	135	N	N	Memoir of an Insidious Man	On the surface, MEMOIRS OF SUPERFLUOUS MAN, is an often charming, occasionally misanthropic remembrance of a vanished America by a self-admitted nearly vanished American type.  Deploying a literary strategy similar to Henry Adams' THE EDUCATION OF HENRY ADAMS, Nock identifies himself, his beliefs, his elite classical education as superfluous in modern day America (circa 1900 to 1943).  But the crucial difference between Nock and Adams is how they qualify themselves as superfluous.  Adams is a man of subtle and ironic self-awarness who recognizes that he and the elite class he belongs to has apparently outlived its time, certainly its usefulness. That his family's his long chain of service has come to an end with him,  suddenly snapped against a new America where the new men of power (such as his once good friend Teddy Roosevelt who turned his back on his class and remade himself as a man of the people), is deftly, self-effacingly and ironically told, and often contains real pathos.  The same cannot be said of Nock's version of superfluity.  <br />Though he attempts to use the sophisicated distancing techniques of Adams,  Nock only manages to appear inveterately opposed to everything that might upset his elitist equlibrium.  Through the lens of his classical education, Nock sees mankind as unchanging, steeped in sin, a species whose small attempts at building effective governments are destined to end in futility and folly.  Where Adams sees that those in power in his time have lost their ardor for and dedication to the ideals of the revolutionary era implicitly criticizing the new technocratic class in government and business for its bloodless utilitarian and pecuniary values, Nock criticizes all modern liberal governments, and anything remotely else remotely Lockean.   He absents himself from the social and political movements of his time, such as the women's movement, scorning its outcome as all too predetermined -- since the disruptive liberal ethos demands equality no matter how violently it rents the social fabric, there was nothing to be done for Nock but watch it happen with a certain measure of glee.   Nock is as elliptical and implict as Adams, but where Adams employs the technique to chide society (and himself), what Nock leaves unstated is his hatred for liberalism.  He leaves unstated his belief, for instance, that the social fabric that had held women so securely in their place for so long -- that conservative and sensible fabric mystically woven over the course of time -- should remain intact because it always had, and thus always should.  Interestingly, like other intellectuals of his time and Adams and James before him,  Nock fled the new pecuniary America.  But unlike other intellectuals of his time who fled to Europe because it seemed to offer them a more humane and more traditional culture as a potential corrective to the grasping, greedy money culture of the second industrial revolution, Nock apparently fled America because he wanted to hobnob with the European artistocracy, no matter how faded and tattered it had become.  <br />MEMOIRS OF A SUPERFLUOUS MAN has become one of the early canonical works of the neoconservative movement.  It has all the earmarks of the Straussians -- the hatred of liberalism, the belief that only a few can be trusted with the disturbing truths of philosophy and that this elect should be entrusted with the political leadership by dint of this hard won wisdom.  Nock also displays the parternalistic populism of the neocons as he waxes poetic about the common lumberjacks he lived with as a boy when his father took the family from Brooklyn to Michigan to head up a lumber operation.  He portrays these commoners as hardy Americans untouched by the evils of cosmopolitan liberalism, brilliant and unspoiled, rugged individualists all.  In a particularly vivid sketch, he describes a musical evening where these common men of toil sang better than any professional chorus he had ever heard.  What he leaves unstated here is the neocon belief that the common run of mankind should be made content with entertainments and religions fashioned and promulgated by the elect to keep the commoners happy in their ignorance of the true nature of the world.   <br />Nock asks his readers to accept that he knows the true nature of the world.  Like most conservative arguments, it is the argument from authority, a form of argument which refuses to engage in the hurly burly of real debate.  And that is why ultimately, Nock comes off as as dry and passionless as the technocrats he and Adams abhor.	2002-11-28
US	50506686	R2XNJ9CEAFLR2A	1565846346	686309018	Rich Media, Poor Democracy: Communication Politics in Dubious Times	Books	5	11	15	N	N	One Dollar = One Vote	McChesney introduces us to laissez faire's New Theology of the First Amendment which since the 1970s has gone against most of the great political philosophers starting with John Stuart Mill: the wealthy have the right to purchase elections, advertisers have the right to operate without regulation, and further, commercial entities are to have the same First Amendment rights as citizens.  In other words the role of capital is increasingly off limits to political debate and government regulation.  Regarding public service broadcastings increasing marginalization and defunding by the conservatives McChesney asks: &quot;...what type of society will dominate in the United States and globally for the coming generation?  Will it be one in which the market and profits are sacrosanct, off-limits to informed political debate?  One in which the notion of citizen will be replaced by that of consumer and where we will have a society effectively based on one dollar, one vote rather than one person, one vote?  Will we have a society where people are regarded primiarlily as fodder for corporate irresponsibility or will we have a society where citizens have the right to actually determine whatever economic and media systems they regard as best?&quot;<br />If reading McChesney, the premier historian of the U.S. media, doesn't convince you as to how utterly complicit the media is in the depoliticization and commoditization of American life, and how overdetermined that outcome has become in light of the penetration of the marketplace into every corner of the media, then perhaps you work for the FCC or you or one of the giant media conglomerates (down to 7 at last count who control more than half of the media worldwide).<br />McChesney tells us the same distressing story beginning at the introduction of radio through the launching of the Internet: the utopian promise of an enabled, informed citizenry using their community-owned bandwidth to inaugurate a new and glorious day of political engagement.  Did you know, for instance, that We the People actually &quot;own&quot; the frequency spectrum, and that ostensibly We have the right to call the shots on what the spectrum is used for?  If you didn't, it's not McChesney's fault.  Instead, it's probably because broadcasters, who pay relatively little for our valuable common property and who have made billions from it in miniscule rental payments have not informed you of that fact.  (That's what I mean by overdetermined.)  In fact, the broadcast and cable media do everything they not to tell Americans how much they pay our government (or what pretends to be our government) for the right to put on mind-numbing and misleading junk as the filler between bouts of very profitable advertising.  But, of course, the filler is all about advertising, too. As McChesney notes, nearly every show is a catalog and set of instructions for consumption and a series of disposable lifestyles.  Here's McChesney quoting Milton Glaser, the famous graphic designer who wrote in 1997: &quot;It is curious that after the triumph of capitalism MAerican business is embracing the politburo practice of censoring ideas it deems unacceptable.&quot;<br />But here's McChesney himself talking about the problem of a media which no longer feels any scruples to inform the American citizenry about anything except how good we will feel if we only buy those things we see on TV:  &quot;The logical consequence of a commercial media system is less to instill adherence to any ruling powers that be -- though that can and of course does happen -- than to promote a general belief that politics is unimportant and there is little hope for organized social change.&quot;  He also scores a solid right to the jaw of the free marketeer version of reality: &quot;As Milton Friedman put it in his seminal CAPITALISM AND FREEDOM, 'because profit making is the essence of democracy, and government that pursues antimarket policies is being anti-democratic, not matterhow much informed popular support they might enjoy.  Therefore it is best to restrict governments to the job of protecting private property and enforcing contracts, and to limit political debate to minor issues.'&quot;<br />McChesney counsels that the only way to strike at the heart of this monster is to &quot;seek new terminology, avoiding terms like &quot;the left&quot; with its undesirable baggage altogether.&quot;  In his view &quot;the only course that makes sense in the long run is to reclaim &quot;left&quot; and charge it with new historical meaning,&quot; a counsel not unlike culture jammer Kalle Lasn, who says in CULTURE JAM that in order to change the status quo we must &quot;step over the dead body of the left.&quot;<br />But, who will cover it?  Who will consider it &quot;news?&quot;  Certainly not those who stand to lose so much.matter how much informed popular support they might enjoy.  Therefore it is best to restrict governments to the job of protecting private property and enforcing contracts, and to limit political debate to minor issues.'&quot; <br />McChesney counsels that the only way to strike at the heart of this monster is to &quot;seek new terminology, avoiding terms like &quot;the left&quot; with its undesirable baggage altogether.&quot;  In his view &quot;the only course that makes sense in the long run is to reclaim &quot;left&quot; and charge it with new historical meaning,&quot; a counsel not unlike culture jammer Kalle Lasn, who says in CULTURE JAM that in order to change the status quo we must &quot;step over the dead body of the left.&quot;  <br />But, who will cover it?  Who will consider it &quot;news?&quot;   Certainly not those who stand to lose so much.	2002-11-26
US	50506686	R11M1RBRDGCMXD	0393303195	707462512	The New Radicalism in America, 1889-1963: The Intellectual As a Social Type (Norton paperback)	Books	4	23	28	N	N	The Roots of Cultural Criticism	Lasch's \\"The New Radicalism in America,\\" published in 1965 tells the history of radicalism in America through a series of portraits of well-chosen individuals.  Some, such as Jane Addams and Walter Lippmann are still relatively well known, others such as Mabel Luhan Dodge, Lincoln Steffens, Colonel House, and Randolph Bourne as less well-remembered.  Part of the appeal of this approach is the how Lasch positions and contrasts these leading and lesser lights within the context of the social and cultural movements they led, followed, or reported upon.   <br />Lasch, the son-in-law of the liberal American historian Henry Commager, belonged to the post WWII generation of historians which searched for more objective ways to tell history than the progressive historians and writers such as Parrington and Croly, and the generation immediately afterwards, for example, Commager.  Best known for his \\"The Culture of Narcissism,\\" the \\"New Radicalism in America\\" is the work of a young historian attempting a critique of the grand, sweeping style of earlier generations, and to tell a story of a rise of a new class of personage on the public stage in America: the intellectual. <br />The intellectual in America rose out of the ashes of Victorianism.  Its earliest avatars came from the bourgeoisie, appalled at the stifling, stunted one-dimensional roles assigned to their parents: the father as breadwinner, the predatory male who proved his fitness in the Spencerian business world, the mother who stayed home to create a haven in a heartless world for her husband and children, and who, as such was the arbiter of Victorian genteel culture and the inculcator of the social graces.  For the daughters of the last generation of Victorians, such as Jane Addams and Mabel Dodge, the urge to strike through the pasteboard mask of the cult of Victorian womanhood was an almost physical necessity.   Addams, observing a bullfight in Spain during a grand tour of Europe, was moved to finally act upon her sense of the emptiness of her position, and taking a cue from the early example of the settlement movement, went back Chicago and set up Hull House.   Mabel Dodge, a banker's daughter from Buffalo, set up a salon in Greenwich Village and played the Grande dame to the era's intellectuals, socialists, union organizers, and writers.  Going through husbands at a fairly rapid clip, she eventually moved to Taos, New Mexico and managed to get D.H. Lawrence and his wife to come to stay at her retreat.  Narcissistic to the core, she embodies the free sexuality of the \\"new woman,\\" who used the parlor as Victorians would never have used it: as a ring for clashing ideas.  <br />Randolph Bourne, who frequented Dodge's salon along with cultural critics such as Waldo Frank, Van Wyck Brooks, John Dos Passos, and Walter Lippmann, wrote about the Young Americans who believed that they could create a new world starting with the new model of public education proposed by John Dewey.  He eventually fell out with Dewey over WWI, refusing to accept Dewey's argument that the war was necessary to pave the way for the pragmatic administration of elites who would bring the world closer to a rational state.  Bourne comes off here as a prototype of the 60s cultural critic -- rejecting earlier radical's accommodation to power in the Wilson administration.  <br />These new radicals diverged from earlier American traditions of philosophy and religion which tended to either support those in power, or whose criticisms were expressed in the political arena.  The post-Victorians attack on the moribund culture they were intended to inherit was truly new.  We can see its reverberations today in the emphasis on the cultural critique as the preferred technique of today's post-modernists.  These new radicals believed that by destroying the genteel tradition, by discovering and promoting native traditions or importing a more humanistic culture from Europe, they could throw a wrench into the dehumanizing dynamo of American industrialism and the debased high culture which served as the other pole of its debased dialectic.<br />These histories of intellectuals from the 1960s, such as \\"Anti-Intellectualism in American Life\\" by Richard Holfstadter, and \\"Men of Ideas\\" by Lewis Coser, are the histories of dead white men.  They concentrate on telling of the growth of the intellectual class, their repeated induction into puissance and its gratifying perquisites, and their repulsion from power back to the margins.  For a book that is now two generations removed from the fashionable currents of today, it remains remarkably fresh.  Unlike so many writers of and on history now, who are so throttled by the theory and the malign influence of the first wave of post-modern critics that they do not dare write for a popular audience, Lasch writes to inform, to educate, and to provoke.  Those whose retreat into academia a generation later and who generated a self-protective haze of obfuscation over their works, should consider ripping off that pasteboard mask (Melville), and forget their \\"knowingness.\\"  Write boldly.  Attack directly.  Remember that white males  created the discourse in earlier times and that learning about those who rebelled against the narrowness the genteel tradition at the turn of the century in books such as this might actually be of some use in this post-modern era which cries out for political engagement.   Read Randolph Bourne.	2002-11-02
US	50506686	R5OC1FXPW4O8W	019513351X	111089222	The Machine in the Garden: Technology and the Pastoral Ideal in America	Books	5	67	69	N	N	Men Become Tools of Their Tools	Marx's book is roughly 50 years old now, but it still sparkles with insight into the myth and symbol discourse surrounding America's fulfillment of the 18th century idea of the \\"Garden of the World,\\" a new Eden that would redeem mankind.  Starting with \\"The Tempest\\" as reflective of the West's view of the geographic discovery of \\"primitive\\" and \\"unspoiled\\" lands, and moving through Hawthorne, Emerson, Thoreau, Melville, Twain, to Fitzgerald \\"The Great Gatsby\\" as an exemplification of how the simple\\"pastoralism\\" of the Enlightenment (based on the Virgillian pastoral form), Marx shows how the American artists and writers slowly came to grips with the penetration of the machine into the garden.  He talks about the idea of the \\"middle landscape\\" a notion poised halfway between primitivism and progressivism, about the apparent perversity of \\"lazy\\" early settlers who, in the view of some commentators like Jefferson, never cultivated their own gardens, unlike the English aristocracy.  The section on Melville's rewriting of the pastoral ideal in \\"Moby Dick\\" is a masterful excursion into the imagination and motives of Melville, as he questions the boosterism for industrialism which has infected even Emerson, who apostrophizes about how industry will forge a newer, better millenialist garden.   <br />At some point before the industrial \\"take-off\\" there was hope that technology would extend and even democratize the garden.  Stunning inventions one after the other -- the railroad, the telegraph, the industrial weaving machies -- and their introduction so soon after the American revolution portended a great unemcubered American future.  But still Emerson noticed the change when he wrote in the 1840s that \\"Things are in the saddle and ride mankind,\\" and Thoreau pointed out that men had become tools of their tools -- focused on the means but not on the ends, and instrumentalist view without ideals.<br />James in his notes on trip he took to America in his later career was struck by the \\"acquiesence to monotony\\" in the small New England towns.  The railroad crossing had made them all the same.  Thomas Carlyle had warned America about the insidious effects of industrialization on the spirit.  So did Blake and Wordsworth and other Romantics.  However, many Americans like Emerson, believed the degradation of the \\"dark satanic mills\\" would never happen in America.  None could believe that the apple-cheeked farm-girls of New England working in the first mills would ever fall so low as the wretches in London.  The \\"Garden\\" would not permit it to happen that way.<br />Some other highlights: his keystone use of a Hawthorne essay in the Virgillian mode penetrated by a railroad whistle.  The mixture of Thoreau's hard-headed \\"empirical\\" approach to pastoralism, Melville's skillful metaphors, particularly the skeleton of the whale on an island of natives which looks half like a hanging garden and half like an industrial loom.  Twain's pastoral America in Huck Finn, Twain's recognition that the pilot (as he was) had an entirely instrumental view of a sunset on the river (with its hidden dangers that required constant attention), while the passenger could actually enjoy the sunset.  Finally, although short, Marx's retelling of Gatsby whose \\"Country House\\" on Long Island is founded of the spoils gained by factory workers a little bit up the railroad line, is compelling too.  <br />Science fiction writers have exploited the machine in the  paradox ever since the genre began.  Indeed the genre began with Mary Shelley's whose monster was a creature of technology.  And also, the myth is everywhere apparent in the suburbs of America -- the middle landscape between the country and the city.  The myth and symbol approach of Marx and Nast was attached by the next generation of historians, but now that the dust has cleared we can see how influential a book this really is.  Great stuff!	2002-10-28
US	50506686	R14CPBUOGX78DP	068483328X	677228256	Men of Ideas: A Sociologist's View	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	The Real Idea Men	They just don't write intellectual histories like this anymore.  Coser's prose is lucid, his research deep and compelling.  I have to admit I read this book in one great gulp.  As I did, I felt random insights gained in other books into the rise of the modern intellectual begin to fall into place under the gentle pressure of Coser's narrative.<br />For instance, the concomitant rise of the English coffeehouse and the rise of the intellectual in that newly formed public space.  Habermas points to this innovation as the basis for his notion of the public sphere.  Prior to the public coffeehouse Coser points out, intellectuals had very little opportunity to meet, to talk, to argue, to pursue their particular interests with others in a free and unpoliced space. Modern coffeehouse franchise trades on this legacy; of course, but only superficially.  The original coffeehouses in London each had their own character, their own clientele, their own subject matter.  And people talked, they held forth, they created public opinion.  I don't hear much public opinion being expressed in today's expresso parlors.  In fact, I suspect a real political discussion would be considered out of bounds.  His discussion of the &quot;Brain Trust&quot; in the FDR adminsistration is compelling, too -- the point at which intellectuals were at last let into the center of American power. <br />Taken in tandem with &quot;Anti-Intellectualism in American Life&quot; by Richard Hofstadter, Coser and Hofstader tell a fascinating story of the rise of the intellectual and the resistance they have encountered and continue to encounter.  <br />Check out the list provided by Plaegius shown on this page -- I've read three of them so far, and have been very pleased so far!	2002-10-02
US	50506686	R3JW5PK5AAJXEB	0300088779	768972928	Affairs of Honor: National Politics in the New Republic	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Their Sacred Honor	This is a groundbreaking work that will be sure to change how we think about the revolutionary and postrevolutionary generations.  In Affairs of Honor, Joanne Freeman illuminates the importance of the forgotten cultural force of honor among the Founding Fathers and the generations immediately following the revolutionary generation.  <br />She proves her thesis admirably, and has chosen fascinating examples of how honor and its related values of fame and virtue were driving forces for their behavior.  She demonstrates that through the prism of honor we can better understand behavior that we now find puzzling, having lost to history the central importance of the demands of honor upon our early leaders.  Incidentally, she notes the relative paucity of historic sources during this period in American history, but argues convincingly that the influence of the code of honor, once recognized, appear everywhere in the documents of the time.  She tells her story convincingly through the journals, diaries, and  papers of politicians, pamphlets, newspapers and other historical documents, as well as through the histories crafted by Jefferson and Burr which she argues convincingly were written above all to defend their actions and their honor.<br />If it is true that every history book rewrites history, Affairs of Honor does so more than most.  By exploring the complex interplay and shifting meanings of honor among the founding generation and how the code influenced understandings and misunderstandings among early lawmakers, she shows that the correct observance the cultural code was often more important than the actual programs and laws that were under consideration.  For instance, even if a senator may have agreed with a proposal of Hamilton's, the fact that many considered his behavior to be dishonorable, might sway their vote against the proposal.   (Notably, some of the battles about honor stretched forward through families for generations afterwards).   To make it even moredifficult and confusing, there were different kinds of honor as well - southern honor as practiced by the Virginians and other southern states, and as practiced by Northerners.  (The code of Southern honor more often ended in duels than did the Northern interpretation).  She notes that before political parties had platforms which enabled a politician to defend his voting as part of his party's requirement of him, each voting decision had to be defended on a personal level.  The personal level was the level of honor, and thus a man's vote could be called into question on the basis of honor - sometimes resulting in bloodshed.  Honor was sometimes used as a weapon in elections, too.  Sometimes politicians would charge each other with dishonorable behavior just before an election so that the their opponents could not respond in time.  <br />Contradictions between democracy and the culture of honor abound.  While the founding fathers were \\"republicans,\\" they were also \\"men of honor,\\" a sometimes paralyzing combination.  As republicans, they needed to demonstrate their allegiance with the citizens whom they represented, while in the chambers of government, they needed to pledge their lives, and their sacred \\"honor\\" to each other - the code of honor of the \\"aristocrat.\\"   In a classic example, she notes that in the story of the clothing G. Washington's wore for his inauguration, that Washington was conscious of and tried to balance these the conflicting demands, wearing a American made homespun suit but a suit of the finest homespun, coupled with the fancy buckles from France on his shoes. <br />She clearly shows that in this face-to-face culture, everyone was painfully conscious of the image they wished to project.  Since man's reputation was critical to his success or lack of it in early government, much time is spent defending one's honor and questioning the honor and virtue of others.  One chose one's enemies as carefully as one chose one's friends.  Jefferson was a master of using the code of honor to advance his agenda, dirtying his enemies through intermediaries in the press.  Adams, by contrast, was temperamentally too volatile to use the code of honor as subtly as his old friend Jefferson. <br />Overall, a great insight into the founding fathers, and into early American history.	2002-09-17
US	50506686	R37VBE0F22LR66	0743234782	595092652	The Silent Takeover: Global Capitalism and the Death of Democracy	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Hello Capital, Goodbye Democracy!	Most of Ms. Hertz's book is a brisk trip through material which has been covered elsewhere before. But Ms. Hertz does us the immense favor of providing us with a clean structure that suggests that we view the interconnectedness of the free market ideology, the consolidation of the media, the attacks on unions and the social welfare as working together to form a new non-public consensus in which governments do not govern (instead they act as shills and prostitutes for business interests) and businesses have come to govern (think of the Body Shop, or Ben and Jerry's who maintain very narrow political platforms as a means to demonstrate their liberal &quot;caring.&quot;).  She moves through this material at a good speed, with intellectual rigor, and with plenty of examples and facts to back up her assertions. <br />Two things are original to Ms. Hertz's work: the story of how the penetration of business into government and vice versa means that the public is no longer even taken into consideration by those in power (except perhaps as potential rioters).  She suggests that governments have so weakened themselves through policies of deregulation and privatization (in keeping with the dicta of the free market priests at the WTO and the IMF and the Fed), they are no longer conduits for the needs of citizens they once represented.  Paradoxically, having supped full on tax breaks and corporate welfare, corporations now find they have to take over functions once supplied by the state: well-educated workforces for one.  They do this sporadically, she notes, and almost always with an eye toward the accrual of PR benefits.  It is doubtful they will fund common public goods such as the infrastructures that once ameliorated the dark side of capitalism -- welfare and unemployment programs to take just two examples.  Incidentally, she doesn't blame them for their activities.  She understands businesses are driven by only one imperative finally: creating wealth for shareholders.  Which is why the free market can never fully deliver public goods, despite what the free marketeers say.<br />Citing as a precursor protests in the Progressive era that went outside the usual course of democratic institutions, she believes that it is time for people to make themselves heard - and not just through their purchases or the stocks they choose to buy (although that can be a powerful check on the corporation) - but also through putting their bodies in the street.  For now, in the absence of government, she sees it as perhaps the only check on the private international structures of financial domination - the WTO, IMF.  <br />Although Ms. Hertz's make you believe that the global hypercapitalism is going to be nearly impossible to stop, her personal story gives one some hope. An economist trained at Wharton (she was there to help &quot;jump start&quot; the Soviet economy in the early 90s), she has switched her allegiance to those people on the other side of the barricades.  A powerful conversion story.	2002-09-16
US	50506686	RG73LX2X9V6T3	0745318460	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy: An Investigative Reporter Exposes the Truth About Globalization, Corporate Cons, and High Finance Fraudsters	Books	5	286	309	N	N	The Last Reporter	Greg Palast won't shut up. He won't shut up about how Jeb Bush and his lieutenant stole the election from Gore through a vicious manipulation of the voter rolls. He won't shut up about how cheaply Tony Blair's government can be bought. He won't shut up about how mainstream journalism is in thrall to the prevailing free market corporate ethos. He won't shut up about the Big Lie perpertreated by Milton Friedman and his gang that markets promote democracy, that markets are engines of viture. He shows with unshakable research that instead that instead of breeding virture and freedom, markets breed corruption, inequality, and through a politically moribund media, moral complacency.<br />The opening chapter on the high-tech mechanism that the Bush camp in Florida put in place before the elections in 2000 to expunge African-Americans from voter rolls is worth the price of the book. Palast tells us how Jeb's gang reinstated Jim Crow laws in the New South by hiring a database firm with strong ties to the Texas Republican party to compare lists of voters with lists of felons and purge names from the rolls that \\"matched\\" in only the most tenous ways. Roughly 60,000 voters, most of them Black (because the prison archipelago in the United States imprisons mostly Blacks) were stripped of the fundamental right of voting. Why take blacks off the rolls? Because, as Palast notes, better than 9 in 10 Blacks vote for Democrats. He personalizes these facts in the person of a Black minister who had met and broken bread with Jeb Bush on numerous occasions. The minister showed up to vote at his local precinct where he had been voting for over 20 years and discovered that his name had vanished from rolls. Palast goes into stunning detail on how the scam was perpertrated and shows conclusively that the Bush camp stacked the deck well before the election. Further, he proves even under these circumstances that Gore actually won in Florida. <br />Palast reported this high-tech lynching of Blackvoters rights in the Guardian (funded by public monies) before the actual election. No mainstream American media picked up on the story. When the Washington Post finally reported it, they did so months later under the cover of the Federal Election Commisions investigation into the manipulation of the election. Slate, to its credit, picked up on the story and helped with hard work of investigating the chicanery in Florida in the immediate aftermath of the elections, but as Palast notes, Slate is not the New York Times, or the Washington Post. He shows in lurid detail how the Republican power structure, including of course, the Supreme Court, swung into action under the guidance of James Baker and ended the counting on the basis of the flimsiest of legalistic doctrine. He depicts the almost comical ineptitude of a Democratic Party as it tries to take on the Repulicans. While the Democrats play by the Marquess of Queensbury rules, the Republicans play to win. Anti-nausea medicine is strongly recommended for this chapter.<br />Palast as a young activist attended lectures by Milton Friedman at the University of Chicago to better understand this radical restatement of Adam Smith's 18th century economic laws. In this regard Palast undoubtedly agrees with media historian Robert McChesney's analysis of Milton Friedman's faulty understand of democracy: \\"As Milton Friedman puts it in his seminal \\"Capitalism and Freedom,\\" because profit-making is the essence of democracy (!), any government that puruses antimarket policies is being anit-democratic, no matter how much informed popular support they might enjoy. [Under this logic] Therefore it is best to restrict governments to the job of protecting private property and enforcing contracts, and to limit polictical debate to minor issues.\\" <br />Palast is particularly angry at his peers in the media. At the same time he understands that they have very little freedom to report on anything that would pose a challenge to the values of the marketplace. He notes that it is only because the Guardian and the BBC is publicly funded can he explore venality and corruption in government and business. And by the way, he takes on the left as well as the right. His chapter on Tony Blair's government and how cheaply it can be bought demonstrates that the influence of corporate money has become so pervasive that even so-called Liberals must feed at the trough in order to fund their expensive media campaigns. The Clintonites hated him, too.<br />But Palast's work is invigorating, not demobilizing. The news he reports doesn't invite fatalistic acceptance of a corrupt system, rather it invites activism. This is probably why he is feared on both sides of the aisle. Someday, he just might get people mad enough to do more than just stand up and say I'm not going to take it anymore, but to take the next step and take back their governments from the cynical oligarchy which equates speech with money, which believes that suffrage should be defined as one dollar, one vote instead of one person, one vote.	2002-09-14
US	50506686	RKS1TTLJLD0TQ	0674003128	296227913	Achieving Our Country : Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Resurrecting the "Party of Hope"	In this book, one of America's leading philosopical lights, is trying to clear a space for the political left to reassess its goals and its practices.  He believes that the internecine warfare between the cultural and political left, and the New Left and Old Left must be halted, that a new rearticulation of the goals of the left is necessary for that to happen.   He maintains that the New Left, the one that engages in the cultural project of identity politics, must find a way to see the Old Left managed to put together a number of clear victories, and put aside the issues of \\"purity\\" which paralyzed it.    He offers a context and a framework and a lot of pragmatic wisdom as to how to move forward.  He also does not stint in his criticism of the Left.<br />Here's some quotes from the books that illustrate some of his thinking: <br />'The difference between early twentieth-century leftist intellectuals and the majority of their contemporary counterparts is the difference between agents and spectators. ' p.9<br />'Both Dewey and Whitman viewed the United States as an opportunity to ultimate significance in a finite, human, historical project, rather than in something eternal and non-human.' p.17<br />Quoting Whitman:<BR>'And I call to mankind, Be not curious about God,<BR>For I who am curious about each am not curious<BR>about God.'<br />'Americans,' he [Whitman] hoped, would spend the energies that past human societies had spent on discovering God's desires on discovering one another's desires. ' p.16.<br />They (Whitman and Dewey) wanted that utopian America to replace God as the unconditional object of desire.  They wanted the struggle for social justice to be the country's animating principle, the nation's soul.\\" pg.18<br />According to Rorty:  \\"Other nations thought of themselves as hymns to the glory of God.  [in America]  'We redefine God as our future selves.'p.22.<br />'Whereas Marx and Spencer claimed to know what was bound to happen, Whitman and Dewey deniedsuch knowledge in order to make room for pure, joyous hope.' (not sure what page).<br />Rorty quotes Wm. James (fellow pragmatist): 'Democracy'  Wm. James wrote, 'is a kind of religion, and we are bound not to admit its failure. Faiths and utopias are the noblest exercise of human reason, and no one with a spark of reason in him will sit down fatalistically before the croaker's picture.' p.9.  (The \\"croaker's picture\\" by the way, would be the view of someone who always sees everything negatively, who takes delight in seeing despair and death around every trope.)<br />But this yearning for a democratic utopia is not not the same as a 'passion for the infinite' which in Rorty's view as destructive in its Platonic idealism.  Rorty would also class Marxism and \\"Spencerism\\" as this kind of idealism.   I think it's helpful to add these theories are also deterministic, which is also antithetical to the practice of democracy as envisioned by Dewey and Whitman, although Rorty doesn't pursue this particular line of thinking,<br />(Platonic) Virtue seeks ultimate things, and is not temporal.  Rorty says \\"Dewey sought the \\"temporalization\\" of nearly everything.\\"<br />On a practical level, Rorty suggests it is better to have campaigns (which are finite) than movements (which are a passion for the infinite).  He asks us to further imagine if history were told as a series of overlapping \\"campaigns,\\" not movements such as the Enlightenment, Modernism and Post-Mod).  He says this periodization creates a false drama that  -- a kind of horse race view which places some artists or thinkers in the avant garde and some in the pack, and some left in the dust.   Similarly, movements tend to sort people into the pure and impure, to partake of religious or idealist discourse of the sacred and profane.  He would argue that this division into the pure and impure is what the party of history (the conservatives) do, and that the party of hope (the Left) should cease engaging in it.  <br />'TheFoucauldian academic Left in contemporary America is exactly the sort of Left that the oligarchy dreams of: a Left whose members are so busy unmasking the present that they have no time to discuss what laws need to be<BR>passed in order to make a better future.' p.139<br />Frederic Jameson & US literature teachers '...substitute knowing theorization for awe, and resentment over failures of the past for better visions of the future.' p.12.  Better, Rorty believes, to put those resentments aside, to acknowledge that awful things were done in the past to Africans and Native Americans (and the other victims in the past) and move forward.<br />\\"Bloom sees them (the Jamesonians) as converting the study of literature into what he calls 'one more dismal social science'--and thereby turning departments of literature into isolated academic backwaters.  American sociology departments, which started out as movements for reform, and ended up training students to clothe statistics in jargon.\\" pg.127<br />Rorty says \\"[Mark] Edmundson seems to me right in describing what is going on in....literature departments as part of the latest attempt by knowing philosophers to gain supremacy over inspired poets.  \\" 138.  Rorty says: \\"I think it is important to distinguish between the know-nothing criticism of the contemporary American academy -- the sort of thing you get from George Will and Jonathan Yardley, and politicians like William Bennett and Lynne Cheney -- from the criticisms currently being offered by such insiders as Bloom and Christopher Ricks.  The first set of critics believes everything they read in scandalmongering books by Dinesh D'Souza, David Lehman and others.  They do not read philosophy, but simply search out titles and sentences to which they can react with with indignation.  Much of their work belongs to the current conservative attempt to discredit the universities -- which itself is part of larger attempt to discredit all critics of the cynical oligarchy that has bought up the Republican Party.\\"<br />Following Rorty, I would suggest that that a first step by the Left to regain its focus would be to heap shame on the once-great Republican party, the party of Lincoln and Roosevelt, which has become the party of  the oligarchy.   Kevin Philips and John McCain have already arrived at this conclusion, so it is not that unlikely a project.	2002-09-02
US	50506686	R1MXN11WH4QZU9	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Welcome to the Death Star	ANATOMY OF GREED by Cruver offers what purports to be an \\"insider view\\" of Enron. What you get are jejune views of a 30 year-old mid-level MBA. Cruver never questions, for instance, the larger structural evils that helped Enron puff itself up into the \\"7th largest company in the world.\\" In fact, he has the usual set of assumptions of toilers in the financial vineyard, e.g., the belief that markets always create value, that the free market system represents the best of all possible worlds, and that those who profit most from it most it are the smartest people in the world. <br />But though his view is limited, he's still aware enough to see the irony in his trying to sell the product he's been recruited to help create -- bankruptcy insurance. He's also aware enough to see that much of the Enron edifice was built on propagandistic techniques. For instance, he notes the multilevel parking lot with Orwellian business slogans on each of the 12 floors, the elevators broadcasting short video pep talks from \\"The Building Guy\\" -- an actor in a yellow hard hat -- who constantly informed employees of the greatness of Enron.  He also senses fairly early on that not all is right in Enronland. For instance, on his first day of work he is told by his boss that other members of his team are not all that pleased that he's been brought on board -- a technique apparently designed to make him unsure of himself, to make him work all the harder to fit in. He also experiences Skilling's brutal review process, called colloqially \\"rank and yank,\\" in which 15 percent of employees were consigned to a humiliating twilight existence during which they sat in vast antechamber waiting to be \\"reassigned.\\"  This process forced this unfortunate group to \\"interview\\" for positions within the company with a \\"5\\" (Enron's scarlet letter denoting the lowest rank) emblazoned across the top of their resume. This creation of an underclass as a spur and a goad to productivity is perhaps one of the most chilling expressions of the vicious, vainglorious culture created by Lay, Skilling and their lieutenants.<br />The details, in other words, are the best part of this book. Readers must provide the deeper interpretation of their meaning. Cruver, to be fair, does to some extent try to do so. The problem is that he attempts to do so through format and style. So although you sense his dismay with the excesses and viciousness at Enron, you must supply the outrage. In one of the best passages of the book, Cruver tells us that he kept trading Enron stock until the bitter end. He was still hypnotized by the financial fantasy that Enron had created around itself. He was not alone. Four or five stock brokerages -- those whose parent companies had lent millions of dollars -- maintained \\"strong buy\\" recommendations until the end also. Masters of illusion were Lay and Skilling. Masters of the dark side of capitalism. <br />With a kind of chilling prescience the Enron headquarters was dubbed the \\"Death Star\\" by Enron employees. The offshore partnerships created by Andy Fastow and Michael Kopper were given names out of Star Wars, too: Chewco (Chewbacca), JED1 (Jedi). Those at the top wanted the world to believe they were the Jedi knights of the new global fiancial markets. Slashing through regulations with their fat donations to politicians of all stripes (donation were correlated to results by mathematical models), sitting on the legislative committees with oilmen like Cheney, they had clearly convinced themselves that their crusade would triumph with the end of regulated markets, or, better yet, markets that they could co-design with their willing partners in the Senate, House and White House. But, of course, Cruver implies, they were agents of the dark side, the Darth Vaders (Death Invaders), whose unbridled greed killed people in developing nations (pipeline explosions, destruction of rainforests, etc. ), corrupted governments, and whose dark work threw thousands of people out of work at Enron, and the companies caught in their vortex.<br />This is clearly a tale of epic scope, of overweening pride, of vanity, of grasping, greedy men and women who employed the free market ideology, an ideology backed up with big cynical donations to cynical politicians to enrich themselves at the expense of everything they touched. That Cruver isn't up to telling it is not his fault. He produces instead a kind of memoir, a episodic glimpse of a corrupt culture by someone schooled in business school in the unquestioned virtues of capitalism. This, of course, is a common failing of MBA programs. Of course no social science can honestly question the object of its study -- to do so would put them out of business, or at least stop the flow of donations from graduates. It's indicative of the failings of this kind of education is that Cruver still believes that working at Enron made him \\"smarter.\\" He means smarter in an instrumental bureaucratic financial way, of course, which is how smart is defined in business school. This is why the larger story is mostly lost upon him. <br />As he thinks back on his experience, Cruver clearly misses the powerful rush of playing in the same sandbox as Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling. In fact, he even wrote his Master's Thesis about Enron and he tells us that working at Enron for a year made him smarter about finance than all his MBA training and his previous experience put together. In the MBA epistemic in which he is schooled and in which it is believed (and can be proven with statistics) that everything is a transaction of some kind or another, it is laudable that he does catch glimpses of the larger corruption of the structure in which he so desperately wanted to succeed. We'll have to wait until someone like DeLillo tells us the real story. UNDERWORLD and WHITE NOISE, in the post-Enron world, can only be seen as good starts.	2002-09-02
US	50506686	R3HH6VDJIFLFD0	0300078781	784367001	The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United States as a World Power	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Power Corrupts	In \\"The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United States As a World Power,\\" a solid, if sometimes somnolent history of the U.S. in the post-war period, Donald Wallace White entertains a couple of provocative ideas about the U.S. in the post WWII period that I found particularly illuminating.  <br />One is that the expenditures for building the vast military industrial complex had a dampening effect both on the development of new technologies and U.S. productivity that took America on a precipitous ride from greatest economic power the world had ever seen to a debtor nation within the space of generation.  He recalls an ironic comment by Keynes who, in discussing the end of Great Britain's world economic dominance, likened the economic policy of its decline to the throwing bales of money into depleted coal mines, waiting a while, then digging it up later and accounting it as the creation of new wealth.  America's great wealth instead of being invested into new production capacity, instead of using it as a spur to technological innovation after WWII, it was thrown in that bottomless pit called defense spending from which little innovation arose. That wealth became inert, deadly both in actual fact and in its effect on the economy.  Once war preparations began, it became necessary to use the materiel, and so under the rubric of the Communist threat, Kennedy told the world America would \\"bear any burden.\\" The burden was the most expensive deadly and divisive war in American history -- a war that signaled the end of America's short-lived leadership of the free world.  Within a generation, America (whose people had had enjoyed a world reputation as charitable, friendly, producers of the world's best consumer goods, more than willing to share their know-how and their wealth with the world), were led into one of the last colonial wars, led there by unilateralist, short-sighted policies, driven by nearly irrational fears of the communist threat. White argues thatthis grab toward power hollowed us out, allowing us to be quickly overtaken by those WWII allies who did not shovel their wealth into missile silos, but who learned from American production models of a generation before and within a generation were able to outproduce their teachers.<br />His second major point is that at the end of the Second World War, there were two major myths of American power informing American policy, and American's perceptions of themselves. One, Henry Luce's, was \\"The American Century,\\" the other was Henry Wallace's \\"The Century of the Common Man.\\"  Immediately after the War, Americans subscribed to the latter discourse, treating not only our WWII allies as worthy of our help, but the entire \\"developing world\\" as well.  Using the public works administration model developed under FDR's New Deal, Fiorello LaGuardia was put in charge of an international program that collected and redistributed food and goods and knowledge -- a kind of international clearinghouse to which many states contributed. The point he makes is that this idea was based on a universalistic ideal: that a new day of cooperation was dawning and that Americans would help set an example of mutual respect and caring. Luce's \\"American Century\\" discourse, on the other hand, was based on the assumption of Great Britain's former role, creating and enforcing a \\"Pax Americana.\\"  It was this view, White shows, that prevailed through such vehicles as the Marshall Plan, which, though beneficial to our former allies, wrote off large parts of the world as second class citizens who would just have to wait until we could get to them. <br />Writing history using both popular (Life, Look magazine) and elitist sources (Foreign Affairs, National Review) as well as the usual sources, including declassified government documents, White immerses us in post WWII America.  For those who lived through it, and especially for those who did not it offers an invaluable perspective on the near miss Americamade as it reached out with the idea of universal human rights, justice and abundance, but grasped instead the mantle of military power.   But we were not the only victims -- the same happened to the Soviets.  The overproduction of war materiel eventually destroyed them as well.  Stuck in their own version of the Fordist production model, burying their wealth in bombs, too, the Soviet empire, like the various European colonial empires that preceded it, disintegrated. <br />White also does a great job of detailing the discourses that fed and this departure from America's initial goals.  He's good at describing the inexperienced, naive, hopeful early attempts and building a better world through such vehicles as the United Nations. He also analyzes the \\"consensus\\" discourse promulgated by the historians of the time: Endless regurgitations of the idea that as a country blessed with natural abundance, technological know- how, and the best darn political system in the world, America was ready to take the world stage as the leader of the free world.<br />He also introduces us to the \\"realists,\\" the school of foreign policy led by Henry Kissinger who promulgated the notion of the balance of power which in practice meant playing one state against another.  We can see the effects of that policy now in Afghanistan.  Through the realists and the influence of the American business community a new tool was sharpened and brandished: the free market ideology and the dominance of financial markets -- America's lastest weapon of choice, just as it had been for the previous only \\"superpower\\" -- Great Britain. <br />An often insightful view of how we got here, and how with startling speed the national consensus and our great expectations foundered on the shoals of hubris, fear and greed.	2002-08-11
US	50506686	R15TQJ5PIX69RH	0674931106	105622002	Urban Masses and Moral Order in America, 1820-1920	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Invasion of the "Friendly Visitor"	Boyer's URBAN MASSES AND MORAL ORDER was a book just ahead of its time. In the Foucauldian spirtit of the historical genealogy which has become the standard form of books about social power, Boyer periodizes the many manifestations of social control that rose in American cities from 1820 to 1920. <br />The first social control programs were the Tract Societies who distributed tracts showing new urban populations how to live morally, according to a kind of outdated bucolic Christian ideal. When tracts didn't work (none of the methods worked at all well according to Boyer), a number of other missionary societies stepped in with new ideas: the Children's Aid Society, the YMCA, the Salvation Army, the Settlement Movement, and finally, the City Beautiful Movement. Many of these societies went after children as the best hope for saving innocent urban unfortunates from the ills of the city, their ethnic parents, and the filthy Catholic and Jewish denizens of the tenements. The only exception was the Children's Aid Society whose founder saw urban urchins as extremely savvy, smart and supremely adaptive.  Nonetheless, the Children's Aid Society shipped young people out to rural America in the belief that they could better prosper elsewhere than in the city.  Most of the time this was done with parental consent, but sometimes kids claimed to be orphans so they could have an adventure with their friends. <br />Boyer's largest theme is the tracing of slow retreast of the strategy of personal contacts with the urban poor rendered by the \\"friendly visitor\\" of these many organizations as the means for moral uplift and social control, and its eventual replacement by the notion that a new achitecture, a new environment of playgrounds, swimming pools, outdoor concerts would have a mass civilizing effect.  The prosletyzing was done in the form of buildings and patrolled urban spaces. Sans the religion, but still full of the moralizing and improving rhetoric, the progressive age government was enlisted in these new strategies of social control. And, of course, eventually, the \\"friendly vistior\\" became the social worker.  But the same goal was pursued -- turning scary immigrants into solid middle-class citizens.  Positive resentimentalizaion through civil space, through education, through public art in public museums, etc., is still a major strategy in large cities.  Art and high culture as a moral instrument.       <br />Boyer's other large theme is that all of these movements were essentially the same -- the tactics barely changed from generation to generation, with the exception of the spatial solution which had a different means but the same hoped for end. As one exhausted organization after another gave up, new organizations sprung to take their place, most of them presided over by men from rural communities who had moved to the city and were disturbed by the lack of social cohesion and surveillance they had experience growing up, and so sought to impose their rural or town Christian values and moral controls upon the city dwellers.  The Puritans practiced this form of coercion in their small settlements, until the flock dispersed to such an extent that social control through surveillance could not work. By the end of the 19th century, city dwellers surpassed country dwellers, and much of the impetus of these early movements faded.<br />There is, of course, a parallel now with the Southern fundamentalists trying to impose their beliefs on the \\"godless\\" cities of the Northeast. In fact, in reading URBAN MASSES AND MORAL ORDER with an eye toward the rise of the South in the 70s and 80s, the same kinds prosletytizing are apparent. Although the intent of this particular social control movement was at odds with the free market ideologists on the other side of the conversative movement, the moral conservatives of the South and West (which had always been backward until vast flows of Federal money were diverted there by Southern senators after WWII), needed an ideology to go along with their grab for power. So, once again, we in the wicked urban North once more got to hear about our moral corruption -- as if nearly two hundred years of it weren't enough already.  <br />A great read, a great synthesis, a real classic.	2002-06-24
US	50506686	R2YTEWPORFNH51	1585790354	611407854	The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table	Books	5	42	48	N	Y	Delightful	Two oral practices flourished in antebellum America: the lecture (or sermon) and the conversation. Lectures, such as Emerson's \\"The American Scholar\\" and sermons, such as the abolitionist sermons of Henry Ward Beecher, are well-known examples of this era.  But it was also known as the Golden Age of Conversation, and its greatest practitioner was generally agreed to be Oliver Wendell Holmes, Senior.<br />Holmes was considered an important American writer until the 1920s when he was excised from the American canon by the modernists. They depicted him as willfully provincial, and elitist.  What those critics failed to understand was that the Autocrat is also a comic pose, and that Holmes is making sport of everyone, including elitists.  Holmes'  democratic view of conversation as an open, free-wheeling discourse where anyone could join the Autocrat at his table, as long as they enlivened the conversation, ran counter to the views of  his more elitist friends in Boston's  Saturday Club in Boston.  Holmes loved to talk, and his love for talk made him a democrat, or perhaps a true republican.<br />His Autocrat is a many sided character: stern and foolish, admonitory and celebratory, a polymorph who will don any temporaty mask necessary to keep the conversation alive.  Holmes'  playful metaphorical imagination is also a revelation.  His gift for translating complex ideas into homey metaphors, aphorisms, and similes is nothing short of miraculous.  In the words of another seriously comic American whom I'm sure Holmes would have delighted in, the Autocrat \\"floats like a butterfly, stings like a bee.\\"<br />The Autocrat of the Breakfast table begins \\"in media res,\\" in the middle of a conversation, with the Autocrat attempting to set the rules for conversation at his table.  They are generous rules, but even they are open to sabotage by his tablemates at the boarding house. He begins by banning \\"facts\\" from his table as impediments to conversation, (a condition that should prevail on today's too numerous current event talking head shows.  But I, like the Autocrat, digress).<br />Here's how the Autocrat starts:  \\"I was just going to say, when I was interrupted, that one of the many ways of classifying minds is under the head of arithmetical and algebraical intellects.  All economical and practical wisdom is an extension of the following arithmetical formula: 2 + 2 = 4.  Every philosophical proposition has the more general character of the expression  a + b = c.  We are mere operatives, empirics, and egoists, until we learn to think in letters instead of figures.\\"  \\"They all stared.  There is a divinity student lately come among us to whom I commonly address remarks like this. \\"<br />In other words, as Gibian says in his marvelous OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES AND THE CULTURE OF CONVERSATION:  [The Autocrat] only asks us to study his beliefs the way a pragmatist would study the doctrines of any religion:  \\"I don't want you to believe anything I say; I only want you to to try to see what makes me believe it.\\"  How refreshing in this age of factoids and statisticoids recited with rancor and ideological certitude, to hear the Autocrat and his tablemates at the boarding house attempting to fashion a democracy through and by their conversation.  Nowadays all we have are the unironic Autocrats, control freaks like John McLaughlin, Ted Koppel, Rush Limbaugh, and that guy on FOX whose name I have, pleasantly, forgotten.<br />Listening to the Autocrat you can almost hear American singing.  It's not exactly Walt Whitman's America,  but it's still America in the hopeful, experimental antebellum era, and thus a good antidote to the cold technocratic chatter and lukewarm public relations cant we are showered with in this hypermediated century.prevail on today's too numerous current event talking head shows.   But I, like the Autocrat, digress).  <br />Here's how the Autocrat starts:  \\"I was just going to say, when I was interrupted, that one of the many ways of classifying minds is under the head of arithmetical and algebraical intellects.  All economical and practical wisdom is an extension of the following arithmetical formula: 2 + 2 = 4.  Every philosophical proposition has the more general character of the expression  a + b = c.  We are mere operatives, empirics, and egoists, until we learn to think in letters instead of figures.\\"   \\"They all stared.  There is a divinity student lately come among us to whom I commonly address remarks like this. \\"<br />In other words, as Gibian says in his marvelous OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES AND THE CULTURE OF CONVERSATION:  [The Autocrat] only asks us to study his beliefs the way a pragmatist would study the doctrines of any religion:   \\"I don't want you to believe anything I say; I only want you to to try to see what makes me believe it.\\"   How refreshing in this age of factoids and statisticoids recited with rancor and ideological certitude, to hear the Autocrat and his tablemates at the boarding house attempting to fashion a democracy through and by their conversation.  Nowadays all we have are the unironic Autocrats, control freaks like John McLaughlin, Ted Koppel, Rush Limbaugh, and that guy on FOX whose name I have, pleasantly, forgotten.  <br />Listening to the Autocrat you can almost hear American singing.  It's not exactly Walt Whitman's America,  but it's still America in the hopeful, experimental antebellum era, and thus a good antidote to the cold technocratic chatter and lukewarm public relations cant we are showered with in this hypermediated century.	2002-05-19
US	50506686	R1OV3IU5UDVF5D	0801865867	263426700	First Resorts: Pursuing Pleasure at Saratoga Springs, Newport, and Coney Island	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Invention of American Leisure	Sterngass's history of three of the first American resorts -- Saratoga Springs, Newport, and Coney Island -- shows in fascinating detail how these sites came to give birth to commercial leisure in the U.S.   Destined for classic status, Sterngass has a solid theoretical grasp of the changing socioeconomics of leisure, and a winning narrative style.  Built on  exceptionally deep research, he weaves a dense and satisfying narrative of each resort and its place in American society from the early antebellum era to the early 20th century.  Using primary sources such as diaries and letters as well contemporary newspapers and magazines, he shows with masterful command how each resort was shaped and then undone by local, regional, and national sociopolitical and economic factors.  <br />He shows through lively anecdote, public records, brief biographies, and other primary sources, how these resorts at first document the free sociality of the antebellum period, a period during which Americans self-consciously created the institutions and practices of the first democratic society.   He then shows how after the Civil War the concomitant rise of class distinctions based on wealth, the commercialization of leisure culture and its increasing privatization meshed with new consumerist values in such a way as to scuttle these egalitarian and democratic ideals as expressed through the relatively open culture of early resorts.<br />Sterngass relates, for instance, how it was that during an age of extreme religious piety (the Second Great Awakening) resorts were able to prosper in a still largely Calvinist society. He argues persuasively that early resort goers were part of long tradition of pilgrimage that had blossomed back in the Middle Ages.Saratoga's early entreprenuers touted the \\"healing\\" waters as\\"therapeutic,\\" the \\"bathing\\" at Newport and Coney Island was touted by doctors as \\"restorative\\" and \\"re-creative.\\"   Not unlike the opium-laced patent medicines of the time, the healing waters were a cover for loosening of the usual social restraints.  When tourists got to these early resorts, the hotel ballrooms (which featured nightly dancing), dining rooms (where twenty guests unknown to each other would be seated at table -- a practice which scandalized the European aristocracy who visited), and vast lobbies and porches (which fostered mingling, talking, and voyeurism) served as liminal spaces where the unexpectedly erotic or socially fortuitous meeting might occur.  By contrast, the guest's rooms were tiny and ill-ventilated, a fact that seemed to bother no one -- after all the point was to see and be seen.  And, just as importantly, there was no set formula, no expectation as to what accommodations in a resort hotel should be like.   He also notes that for a country believed to be resolutely puritanical in its beliefs and industrious in its practices, that almost all Americans of the antebellum period went on vacation, and that a vacations of a month or more were common among the bourgeoisie and the aspiring middle class.<br />Saratoga's water were free for visitors and residents for better than fifty years.  Early in the 1800s the town fathers  passed a law to that effect, and in effect zealously guarded the amount of water that was drawn from the springs.  Eventually, as leisure became more commercialized, the springs were fenced in, the water sold, and the springs, not surprisingly, were almost depleted -- an early parable of  sound husbandry of natural resources giving way to the destructive forces of unbridled capitalism.   Similarly, Newport's beaches were open to all from the early antebellum years until just after the Civil War, but soon after Newport was colonized by the robber barons and their friends, who attempted to privatize what had been held in common.  When\\"cottage\\" dwellers like the Rockefellers and the Carnegies had trouble rescinding public access to the beach, they simply decided that bathing was not an activity peopleof their sort should engage in, thus creating just one of many rules that would police the boundaries between themselves and those unlike themselves.    Coney Island, perhaps the most democratic of these resorts by virtue of its proximity to New York City, drew millions to its beaches and amusement parks every summer for decades, ending only in the 1940s.   Sterngass shows how Coney Island's carnivalesque egalitarianism in the Gilded Age was the gift to New York of an amazing Irish politician, John McKane, whose great style and cunning helped create a safe escape for the city's burgeoning factory and office workers searching for diversion and excitement .   The world's first great amusement space, nutured by the cagey McKane and his cronies, was very quickly copied the world over.   Eventually brought down by reformers who consolidated the district with the rest of New York City and shuttered its rowdier establishments and attractions, the reformers drove McKane to an early grave, and instigated a process which eventually destroyed Coney's unique charms.   The process continued to play out well into the 1950s when Coney's vitality finally succumbed under the weight of ill considered public housing projects, the massive infusion of money into suburban developments and the rise of car culture.   <br />Well-illustrated with maps, photos, handbills, and other fascinating documents, this attractive book was published with great care by Johns Hopkins Press.  Clearly, they believe they have a winner.   I think they're right.	2002-03-14
US	50506686	R2AMUINC6N5PCZ	0312094973	79903259	Land of Idols: Political Mythology in America	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Brief History of Thralldom Through the Ages	In \\"Land of Idols: Political Mythology in America\\" Michael Parenti demolishes a number of more insidious and invidious tales of the state (see Tales of the State, Schramm and Neisser, 1997), tales that have been told from the ancients as they have sought to reserve power to themselves. Clearly, concisely, he shows how our contemporary lives are organized according to the whims of one slice of the population: the 2% who own 90% of the wealth, and exploit 98% of the people. Here's one common tale and its antidote: the economic pie will get bigger if only liberal government will get out of the way and let the free market do it's job. In fact, when the economic pie has grown larger, the bigger piece has always gone to the rich, leaving the working class with a smaller piece each time. A supplementary tale says that because they assume so much more risk than the working man does, capitalists deserve much bigger rewards. Tell that to an Enron employee, or someone who was downsized, who receive all the risks, none of the rewards, and don't have billions to fall back on.<br />He notes that any kind of Marxist perspective, even the use of the word \\"class\\" will not be tolerated in the media any longer. When Marxism is mentioned, it is excoriated as a failed system, and the notion of \\"class\\" is reviled along with this characterization. He points out that Marxist predictions have been more right than wrong, however. The creation of a worker's paradise through the withering away of the state never materialized, but his observations about business cycles and recessions were correct, as is his prediction of capital concentration, the growth of the proletariat and the increasing misery of the working class, the need for capital to chase around the world looking for new peoples and materials to exploit.<br />He suggests that the capitalists have made a monopoly culture in their own image through the funding of the arts, universities, the promulgation of legalistic views of the lifeworld, control of the media, medicine and healthcare. He destroys the \\"tales\\" that we have either pluralism or \\"democratic capitalism\\" as promoted by \\"free markets.\\" He notes that rich live at such a remove in terms of social distance that they might as well be living on another planet and thus cannot hope to promote such ideals. And yet, the ruling class promulgates the tale that worthy members of the working class may some day attain this same lofty perch through hard work and pluck, when if fact there is very little movement between economic segments (or classes, as they used to be known before mainstream sociologists changed the terminology to make it more \\"neutral\\"). All proof to the contrary, this canard of the \\"rugged individualist\\" still enjoys the support of the media, and many Americans.<br />But is this a conspiracy? Here's a little known but appropriate quote from Abraham Lincoln (circa 1837) that speaks to this, as quoted by Parenti: \\"These capitalists generally act harmoniously, and in concert, to fleece the people...\\" For those who would point out that 20th century capitalism and early 19th century capitalism are incommensurable, he quotes a critical study of David Rockefeller's Trilateral Commission as a way of demonstrating how 20th century \\"conspiracies\\" work: \\"A conspiracy on the part of certain members of the international ruling class is not being suggested here, but rather that many of these people, who have a great deal of influence, are consciously making efforts to guide and control the direction of the world's political and socioeconomic system in their class interest.\\" A de facto conspiracy, in other words.<br />Parenti sometimes goes a bit far in his acceptance of some conspiracy theories (multiple assassins of both Kennedy and Martin Luther King, the incompetent investigation of Malcolm X, for instance), but, given that it is the paranoid right who are historically much more likely to create and promulgate such theories -- liberal media,communists in the State Department, the hazards of fluoride, homosexual teachers perverting their students -- Parenti's occasional paranoia is relatively benign.<br />There was a political party in New York State in the early 1830s called the Anti-Masonry party, whose conspircist theories about the Freemasons served as the foundation for the Working Man's party, an anti-Albany Regency party which succeeded in driving Freemasons underground, and nearly out of existence. A similar anti-elitist party with a compelling conspiracy theory is what lefties need now!a, communists in the State Department, the hazards of fluoride, homosexual teachers perverting their students -- Parenti's occasional paranoia is relatively benign. <br />There was a political party in New York State in the early 1830s called the Anti-Masonry party, whose conspircist theories about the Freemasons served as the foundation for the Working Man's party, an anti-Albany Regency party which succeeded in driving Freemasons underground, and nearly out of existence. A similar anti-elitist party with a compelling conspiracy theory is what lefties need now!	2002-02-22
US	50506686	R7T81F95T9M1Z	0805048987	309725095	Media Unlimited: How the Torrent of Images and Sounds Overwhelms Our Lives	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Shelter from the Storm	Gitlin's MEDIA UNLIMITED starts out with a memorable joke / parable that informs much of his diagnois of the effects of media upon us: A border guard every week for twenty years stops a suspiciouis man who drives a truck across the boundary. He tears the truck apart each time and never finds anything. On the day of his retirement, the guard, promising not to turn in the \\"smuggler\\" says \\"I know you've been smuggling something across this border for the last 20 years.  But what?\\" \\"Trucks,\\" the smuggler tells him.   <br />Starting with a brief survey of 19th century sociogists who might provide guidance through the media \\"torrent,\\" he rejects Marx (for being too trapped in the productivist mode of economic thought of his time), Weber (for not really understanding that alongside the iron cage of rationalism, the iron cage of consumer desire was being forged), and finally settles on Georg Simmel whose \\"grand paradox\\" of rationalistic money culture Gitlin summarizes this way: \\"a society of calculation is inhabited by people who need to feel to distract themselves from precisely the rational discpiline on which their practical lives rely,\\" and that they \\"come to crave particular kinds of feelings -- disposable ones.\\" <br />So how do we defend ourselves against the torrent? Gitlin identifies a number of plausible navigational strategies, expressed by a typology: The Content Critics (ACT-UP, AIM), The Paranoid (the Frankfurt School, Vance Packard), The Exhibitionist (those who seek to become part of the torrent as a way to participate in the media reality), The Jammer (the hacker, John Heartfield and his anti-fascist montages are an early example), The Ironist (David Letterman, except he's part of the machine, gently gumming the hand that feeds him), The Secessionist (she tries to make her own rules and control her intake), and finally, The Abolitionist (Ted Kaczynski and other wishful thinkers).  <br />He notes that media has \\"by flooding people with generally inoffensive images of those unlike themselves have invited tolerance, and even more, egalitarian and antiaturhoritarian sentiments,\\" but suggests that the larger effect of media has been \\"demobilization\\" which he explains as the \\"ceaseless quest for disposable feeling and pleasure [which} hollows out public life altogether.\\" He notes that the amount of people's TV watching as described in Putnam's \\"Bowling Alone,\\" is the most highly correlated factor of political (dis)engagement.<br />This is just the bare bones of what is a challenging, insightful, and suddenly, very necessary view of media.  Other good stuff  includes his take on media circuses like the O.J. trial, the Lewinski scandal -- that such slowly unfolding events actually turn down the torrent to something approaching human speed and thus expose in the process the hypervelocity and emphemerality of usual media fare -- is counterintutive and true.  He notes that capitalism has always capitilized on speed, always created a class of speed elites who have sought to draw the slow into their slipstream toward a speedy MBA utopia, but that this speed elite has also fostered slow amusements as an antidote.  They sell us the speed because they are afraid of becoming \\"roadkill,\\" while others, like Martha Stewart, sell us the antidote.   He also notes that the \\"hot\\" Manichean world of the media, conservatives play better than liberals.  And further that the atomization of events and individualzation of the news has the effect of discrediting systematic, systemic views of society.  Police brutality, anyone?  <br />He also touches on something worthy of further investigation.  Citing  a CNN announcer who gestured to his new $70 million studio as the house that Lewinsky built, Gitlin notes the media has only a scant penchant for examining its ultimate motive: making money for the investor class. While we consumers of news and entertainment know that intellectually, emotionally, in the face of the never ending torrent the media is reified -- it feels eternal, god-like, self-perpetuating -- and so we somehow forget.  We are so sucked into the stimulus -- even feelings of opprobrium and disgust -- that we forget that media is all about making money through that stimulus: getting and selling eyeballs.<br />There's a sign in New York City near 42nd Street (home of the \\"newscrawl\\" which have become so prevalent on TV screens these days) which calculates the average American's share of the national debt.  Imagine if the networks were enjoined to run, next to their embossed logos, how much money has been made year-to-date.  Other intermittent crawls could show the highest and lowest prices paid for a commercial slot that year, or the year-to-date highest rated show, etc.  We know how much the consumer goods we buy cost and what they contain because of labeling laws, but media comes with no such information.  Since experts can't agree on the harmfulness or impact of television (though Gitlin tips the balance pretty strongly here), it seems the least that could be done would be a visible running tally of the money made.  This would at least remind us of the most important function of media -- to make lots of money for media moguls and their speculators.<br />Gitlin's last book excited critics from the left and the right.  I predict more of the same for MEDIA UNLIMITED, although, I suspect the right will merely say that the media is a liberal mouthpiece, when in fact, with a few hiccups here and there,  this \\"truck\\"  is conservative to the core, creating, supporting and maintaining consumer desire.	2002-02-22
US	50506686	REGW37C24ECFE	0674624637	399767848	Nightmare on Main Street: Angels, Sadomasochism, and the Culture of Gothic	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Scarfication Is Powerful!	Edmundson has got hold of a powerful idea here: that strategies and characters of Gothic literature have burst out of the realm of fiction and infiltrated our public life.  While he sometimes pushes his broadly defined notion of the Gothic too far (it sometimes it seems as if everything belongs to the realm of the Gothic depending on his say so), for the most part he does stick to his original definition of a hero/villain, haunted structures, seduced and screaming heroines and the occasional heroic rescuer.<br />He suggests, quite believably, that the powerful Gothic themes, have been used by Marx (the capitalist as vampire), and by Freud (humanity haunted by the past, in the grip of infantile memory which dooms us to behavior we can never fully escape except with the help of modernist magicians like Freud).  Moving from the talk show (where families reenact Gothic scripts wherein hero/villains describe their inexplicably destructive behavior without understanding or regret as their families hurl abuse at them), to movies (pick just about anything including Disney films), Edmundson strikes at the root of the malevolent vine of the Gothic, a vine which snakes through our political life - Gothic monsters such as Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden, through our social life - our collective perception that we are in danger even in the most benign circumstances.<br />He does see hope for using the Gothic the way it was intended: to throw off the dead hand of the past, originally the aristocratic, then the plutocratic, or therapeutic, now bureaucratic hand of power and discipline.  His writings on Freud are particularly incisive on the therapeutic hand.  Here's a quote: \\"Freud, in his most resolutely Gothic moods, believed that we never forget anything, so that every past moment is stored somewhere in the psyche...  He also thought, at least at times, that *any* negative event that befalls us -- no matter how apparently contingent -- is in some measure the result of our guilty need for punishment, our wish to self-destruct.  Edmundson also notes that Foucualt and Derrida and other \\"new\\" critics favor the Gothic as well.  And if you think of Foucault's evocative prose style, and Derrida's \\"terrorism,\\" Edmundson has a point, a minor point, but a point nonetheless.<br />The Cold War Gothic has now been replaced by the Terrorist Gothic, the apocalyptic version of Gothicism.  George W. Bush whips up the external apocalyptic Gothic, while at the same time we're being terrorized internally by the second variety of the Gothic - the \\"terror\\" gothic - in this case, the recession terror gothic.  The Gothic can be a powerful tool for critiquing the status quo.  The problem is, it has become the status quo, and, unlike \\"healthy\\" Gothic horror, it never opens out into new territory now.  Instead, we're all doomed, doomed, doomed!.  Edmundson notes a few exceptions:  the first Nightmare on Elm Street by Wes Craven for one.  I heartily agree on that score!guilty need for punishment, our wish to self-destruct.  Edmundson also notes that Foucualt and Derrida and other \\"new\\" critics favor the Gothic as well.  And if you think of Foucault's evocative prose style, and Derrida's \\"terrorism,\\" Edmundson has a point, a minor point, but a point nonetheless.    <br />The Cold War Gothic has now been replaced by the Terrorist Gothic, the apocalyptic version of Gothicism.  George W. Bush whips up the external apocalyptic Gothic, while at the same time we're being terrorized internally by the second variety of the Gothic - the \\"terror\\" gothic - in this case, the recession terror gothic.   The Gothic can be a powerful tool for critiquing the status quo.  The problem is, it has become the status quo, and, unlike \\"healthy\\" Gothic horror, it never opens out into new territory now.  Instead, we're all doomed, doomed, doomed!.   Edmundson notes a few exceptions:  the first Nightmare on Elm Street by Wes Craven for one.   I heartily agree on that score!	2002-02-21
US	50506686	R3MDC9FQX2X7M5	0805040919	593522550	The Twilight of Common Dreams: Why America Is Wracked by Culture Wars	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Post Mods Kill New Left with Assist from New Right	Written in the mid-90s when the \\"culture wars\\" were at their height, Gitlin's history of how the wars began in the Left, how conservatives fanned the flames and in the confusion consolidated their claim on the average American, seems somehow remote now.  What with all politicians now running for the center, and the latest war (on terrorism) acting as a yet another national \\"unifier,\\" the flames of the culture wars appear to have been stamped out by all the rushing, marching feet.  Appearances are deceiving though.  It's my guess the embers are still smoldering, and that a little poking and stirring will re-ignite the blaze.<br />In this book, Gitlins strategy is to try to lower the heat of the culture wars through a \\"pox on both their houses\\" retelling of its genesis and most important battles.  His attempt to shed light on the destructive effects of identity politics as practiced by the Left and distorted by the right feels forthright and balanced. Theres a good summary of the influence of various thinkers on the academic Left: Foucalt, Derrida, Horkheimer, Adorno, all of whom attacked the Enlightenment project in varying degrees, ushering in the era of \\"relativism.\\"   Also, he anticipates much of the ad hominen counter-Enlightenment criticism to be heaped on him by Lefty reviewers  e.g., hes an old white male liberal academic Jewish prof out of touch with the latest radical twist on of those white male French guys, who still believes there can be a Left, and liberal and progressive causes worth fighting for.  In other words, he does not agree with one of his graduate students who told him there is \\"no such thing as truth  there are only truth effects.\\" (Gitlin nicely points out that anti-Enlightenment types still use the ground rules established by the Enlightenment to attack the Enlightenment).  <br />He starts the book with a first hand report on the difficulties of getting a new textbook series approved in Oakland, CA, which serves to demonstrateon a practical level the effect of post-modernist theory.  Identity politics, that hydra-headed hyphenating monster (Japanese-Americans, African-Americans, Chinese-Americans, Mexican-Americans, etc.) kicked up so much dust that Oakland didnt succeed in adopting any textbooks for at least two years. By contrast, the conservatives who protested were easy to mollify: some minor revisions mentioning creationism and they were fine.  The hyphenates major complaint?  The textbooks didnt treat their various victimologies fully enough.  Or that their stories were not told with enough obsequiousness and guilt.  The textbooks themselves, in trying to anticipate such criticisms, broke up the main narrative with a multi-media look, and multi-perspectivist story-telling strategy. <br />Less balanced is his description of how the false crisis of P(olitical) C(orrectness) was created in think tanks fueled by conservative money men  (Olin, Heritage, etc.), spread by DSouza and others,  and promulgated through the media to whom it was cynically and successfully pitched as a story of \\"free speech denied.\\"   But then, Gitlin couldnt have \\"balanced\\" this chapter in the Culture War because the Left, ambushed by the conservatives, couldnt recover fast enough, and never had a chance to tell its side of the story in any meaningful way. It was an upside-down time when conservatives got to call liberals anti free-speech and McCarthy-like. Those free speech loving conservative anti-PC warriors were suddenly keeping America safe for good old-fashioned race-baiting, gender intolerance and just plain good ol hate!  I know they  helped me see how wrong to be anti-anti-woman, anti-anti-Semitic, anti-racist, and anti-fascist.  <br />Eventually this latest semi-real war against terrorism will die out and we'll see the usual rancor return.  In fact, the lack of a budget consensus now is a welcome step in that direction!	2002-02-11
US	50506686	R4AMV7BPH7CXF	0521560268	336059988	Oliver Wendell Holmes and the Culture of Conversation (Cambridge Studies in American Literature and Culture)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Golden Age of Conversation	According to Gibian, two oral practices flourished in antebellum America: the lecture (or sermon) and the conversation.  Lectures, such as Emerson?s \\"The American Scholar\\" and sermons, such as the abolitionist sermons of Henry Ward Beecher, are well-known examples of this hyper-speechifying, Chataqua-inspired heavy, Second Great Awakening era.  But it was also known as the Golden Age of Conversation, and its greatest practitioner was generally agreed to be Oliver Wendell Holmes, Senior. <br />Gibian is out to revise and enhance Holmes? current reputation on the basis of a new critical reading.  Holmes was considered an important American writer until the 1920s when he was excised from the American canon by the modernists.  They depicted him as willfully provincial (because he named Boston the \\"Hub\\" of the world), and elitist (he invented the term \\"Boston Brahmin\\"). Gibian attempts a rescue by noting that it one of Holmes? characters, a provincial, town booster named \\"Little Boston\\" in the \\"Autocrat of the Breakfast Table\\" who dubbed Boston the Hub.  Gibian suggests that Boston Brahmin was an appellation meant to poke fun of the contemplative, upper class, pedigreed Bostonian who self-consciously removed himself from the hurly-burly of the common run. But much more than placing the \\"Hub\\" and \\"Boston Brahmin\\" in context, Gibian attempts to show that Holmes encouraged democratic conversation.  That unlike his more elitist friends in the Saturday Club, he was a democrat, or a true republican, perhaps.  <br />He does this by suggesting that Holmes? was equal parts house-breaker as house-keeper, invoking Mikhail Bakhtin?s theory of the carnival as appropriate to Holmes? comic, celebratory, and democratic view of American conversation as an open, free-wheeling discourse where anyone could join the Autocrat at his table (as long as they played by his conversation-enlivening rules, one of which seems to be to play the devil?s advocate at all times).  Gibian elaborates on those rules at some length, noting philosopher Richard Rorty?s views on how a true dialogue can take place follows many of the same basic rules.  <br />In his detailed examination of Holmes's \\"The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table.\\" Gibian shows Holmes was attracted to levity (levitation, lightness) through his mother, perhaps as a reaction to his Puritan Minister father?s gravity (grave, gravitas).  His portrait of Holmes? early life (he could never stop talking as a boy), his description of Holmes? early readings and re-readings of early Renaissance humorists such as Rabelais, his continual search for bon mots and mot justes in those old texts, his eminent position as the only French-trained doctor in America (whose first paper on puerperal fever is an acknowledged medical classic), help us understand how Holmes came to be able to converse with everyone.  The last of the generalists, in the time just before specialization in science arose, he was able to enter into conversations on any subject, draw knowledge from one to inform the other.  And, he would take any side in any conversation, to try it on for size, refusing to stick with any position, believing that consistency is the hobgoblin of small minds, a trait that might make him the first multi-perspectivist. <br />Conversation is dead now, and its slow passing happened concomitantly with the rise of America?s power and industrial prowess, and, of course, the TV, which brings us the great sermons of the happy earthly life of consumption.  There are some who say the Internet is bringing back the conversation.  But for everyone who says that, there is another expert who tells us of its corrupting power.  Meanwhile, the American breakfast and dinner table hears a few spectral conversations around it on the holidays, and the dining room still lingers in the American home.  But it is no longer a performance space. Talking just doesn?t seem all that important anymore. For Holmes and his generation there was some urgencyin conversation: they were trying to invent a democratic discourse, after all.   It was a time when talking, joining clubs and associations, and sharing ideas seemed greatly to matter.  After all, the great experiment had only recently begun.  And space and race, the two quintessentially American topics, intimately intertwined, were critical issues needing resolution.   Eventually, this a conversation that was conducted using different , and deadly, means.	2002-02-11
US	50506686	R2D8OS3PJ93ZE7	0521790395	608626454	The Monied Metropolis: New York City and the Consolidation of the American Bourgeoisie, 1850-1896	Books	5	37	38	N	N	The End of the American Dream	In his introduction to this highly readable, deeply-researched history of the New York bourgeoisie, Beckert says that the current trend in American history of examining the unknown voices of average Americans is laudable.  But, he points out, since it is the rich and powerful who make the conditions under which average Americans live, they are also deserving of study.  (At least I think that's what Beckert was driving at; I took the book back to the library and am writing this review from memory).<br />When I first moved to New York I went with a friend to the Steinway showroom.  He was studying piano at Julliard and wanted to try out a couple of pianos to see how different they were from his old 1923 grand.   I don't know where my friend is these days,  but Steinway is still there, just as it has been from the 1840s (if not before -- I don't have the book, so I can't check).  But what I do know is that Steinway and the manufacture of pianos through the period covered in this great book, is just one of the many stories that Beckert tells to illustrate his main idea:  from small manufactories, great industrial fortunes  grew up, from a small mercantile elite great financiers were born, from the Civil War the New York merchants and especially the new manufacturing class profited mightily.    <br />The eariler merchants, who had kept the manufacturers out of their exclusive society, had to let them inside the charmed circle.  (After all the manufacturers wealth often outstripped that of the earlier merchant class.  The money made from the exportation of cotton and the importation had been good, but it didn't compare to the vast wealth born out industry).    In the process, the old merchant class taught the new manufacturing class (many of whom were fair and equitable in their dealings with workers, who saw them often as co-workers, as honest hard-working Americans who were deserving of their wages, as free man in the spirit of the American Revolution), that their employees were of a lower racial and societal order.  Peter Cooper (Cooper Union)  never bought into this lie, but  many others did.  <br />And so the great consolidation of wealthy New Yorkers was accomplshed as the newly wealthy were taught  about perquisites of power.  In the process, the new manufacturing elite grew increasingly distant from their employees.  And later, as newly efficient  industrial processes robbed craftsmen  of their importance in the creation of goods, and immigrants were brought in to work for pennies a day and set against each other so that labor costs could be cut, tensions and misunderstandings flourished.  The monied class looked for and found ideologies to support their views of themselves of an elite -- Spencer's social darwinism, for example.   In addition to ideologies, they used their vast fortunes to build armories the length of Manhattan to protect themselves  from the rabble (who only a generation before had been freeborn Americans worthy of respect.)  Steinway, for instance, had done his best in earlier days to pay decent wages.  But when they unionized and sought better wages, he and his fellow piano manufacturers conspired to lock out any piano union employees who supported a strike against any other piano manufacturer.   From a belief in the goodness of men,  and the perfectability of the American system through the agency of freeborn men, the discourse changed to the adoption of a bogus science that justified their weath and power.  The same the story was eventually told everywhere in America.  <br />A short review can't hope to do this book justice.  It tells a vast, complex story with admirable clarity and continuity.  I may just get it out of the library again and read it for a third time!	2001-12-09
US	50506686	R33MHZPGB0NFZE	0300090218	365419541	The Strange Death of American Liberalism	Books	3	4	20	N	N	The End of Total War = End of Liberalism	Brands argues a simple idea here that makes good sense: that the lberal agenda was activated and supported by the cold war, not the New Deal, and that it's practitioners included both Democrats and Republicans: Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon.   According to Brands, the communist threat was used initially by the democrats as a reason for expansion of the federal government and the welfare state as a means to demonstrate to the world that  Operation Democracy was superior to Operation Communisum.    And that  as Operation Communism began to falter and the Soviet threat disintegrated, the liberal agenda disintegrated, too.  This gave rise eventually to the &quot;end of welfare as we know it.&quot;<br />Brand argues that the American people have always been skeptical about the federal government being given too much power.  He cites chapter and verse from the Federalist Papers, the history of the Revolutionary War, the U.S. Constution.   He notes that during the cold war this skepticism was held in check because Americans, historically, have always recognized that there must be a federal government to wage war and make treaties.  Given their long suspicion of big government, it took the cold war  the longest war in American history  to draw more power to itself both internationally and domestically. <br />Reagan, the great schizophrenic, wanted it both ways.  For those who lived through that crazy house time, Brands analysis makes good sense.   Reagan told Americans that big government was evil and incompetent, un-American and communisitic and that business was competent and would fix everything that was broken.     But at the same time, from the other side of his mouth, he asked Americans to believe that when it came to prosecuting war, the government was competent and knew what it was doing.  I always wondered why we couldn't let business run foreign policy, since they seemed to be running everything else under Reagan's tenure.  Culturally, Reagan wasa Democrat, (having been an FDR liberal), but  politically he was a weird mixture of Calvin Coolidge, and George Wallace.   He reached way back to the days of the Robber Baron for his rhetoric about business, spent billions on the military industrial complex so his friends could profit from the war, and cut average Americans out of the big Keynesian spending spree.<br />America after WWII at last recognized it was a world leader and that isolationism was impossible.   Everything done in the name of the American people during those years -- improved benefits, the recognition of labor unions, the expansion of various Social Security and Great Society Programs met with little opposition from Republicans for it was all done as a necessary  part of fighting the cold war.   It was Reagan's great genius to stop the gravy train the average American was riding on, and clear the right of way for the gravy train's headed for corporations and wealthy Americans.  I'll always be grateful to him for showing me how undeserving poor people are, and how deserving the rich are.    After all, they are rich and they got that way through hard, hard work!  <br />We are now, since September 11, for the moment anyway, reassuming some of the rhetoric of the cold war.  We hear comparisons of al Queda to facism, we hear of massive military spending, billions in gifts to various industries, billions earmarked for security.  And so, once again we are launched back into the well-known waters of total war, though like the Gulf War, we know it will only be temporary.  Thus the lobbyists know they must take good advantage of the circumstances.  A boondoggle that could not get funding before September is now necessary for national defense.  New corporate welfare proposals are vital to our domestic economy.    I'm so relieved.   It's the language we all understand.  The schooling of half a century is always at the ready, ready for activation by whatever new threat appears, and fortunately now, we don't have to spend any of it on undserving Americans because we don't have to prove that Operation Democracy is better than Operation Communism anymore.  Nobody wants to live in a cave, after all!	2001-12-09
US	50506686	ROS0376YOED4H	014025255X	286483719	The Penguin History of the USA: New edition	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Short(ish) and Succint	Packed with diverting insights and miscellaneous facts, this general history of the US is notable for its sweep, its sensibility and erudition. If you feel the need to understand the various periods in American, the central economic and political factors which drive the continuity and change from one period to another, this shortened history does an excellent job. <br />A couple of interesting facts: Tammany Hall was named after the Indian chief Tammany, who gave William Penn land to start his colony.  Tammany gave Penn all the land he could walk in three days.  Penn stopped after a day and a half and thanked Tammany for his generosity.  But the next generation of Pennsylvanians organized a relay race and grabbed as much land as they could in the day and half that follwed.  And the work bunk, or bunkum comes from a representative from South Carolina, who in the House of Representatives, delivered a long speech dealing only with local concerns, boring his fellows politicos.  He apologized later, saying that the speech was intended only for &quot;Buncum County.&quot; <br />Brogan is particularly adept at drawing incisive portraits of American presidents and leaders.  Abraham Lincoln, who may be the most written about American President, is here given new life by Brogan as a man who was a sharp politician, ambitious, steeped in the give and take of democracy -- a side of Lincoln sometimes overlooked in oher biographies.  His portraits of Carter, Nixon and Reagan are also insightful.<br />Great reading for the average reader and the history enthusiast and scholar as well.  The average reader will appreciate the grace and insight with which he tells the big story, the history enthusiast and scholar will appreciate the odd details, and Brogran's often tangy slant on America and Americans	2001-12-08
US	50506686	R1ZHLOVRYSNNUS	0826413676	367786913	Technology as Magic: The Triumph of the Irrational	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Ancient Secrets of Bureaucratic Magic Revealed!	If you've ever seen the &quot;punk&quot; magicians, Penn and Teller, you know that a lot of their act is about showing you how the trick is done, then, as a topper, finishing the trick in some new way that takes the trick to some new level of mystification. TECHNOLOGY AS MAGIC is a lot like that, but this final topper is your own recognition that you've been a mark and a sucker, and that you will continue to be a mark and a sucker until you turn off the TV, throw away the paper, and start spreading the word about empty incantationsof the government, media, and marketers that have robbed us of clarity in thinking and blurred our moral sensibilities.<br />If you've ever had to write administrative tripe and felt queasy doing so, if you've ever had to devise an apologia to convince management to proceed with some new action system and knew all along that you were only supplying a rationale to make the powers-that-be breathe easier, if you've ever had to generalize about a heterogenous population -- for instance, turning them into a &quot;target market&quot; knowing full well that everything you're saying is a lie and is based on the most abusive forms of instrumental rationalism, and only perpetuates the pseudo-sociology, pseudo-psychology, pseudo-statistics, and pseudo-trends of the media and the &quot;research&quot; that justifies their colonization of yet another group of consumers, this book offers a clear structure for thinking through how you got to such an impasse.<br />Jacques Ellul, who I haven't read but now feel I must based on Stivers' description of his synopsis of the three historical eras, is the guiding spirit behind TECHNOLOGY AS MAGIC. Showing how magic has always been with us from prehistory through to the present day, Stivers using his basic model to show how the magic of numbers and images have supplanted critical thinking in our time. The only shortcoming, perhaps, is Stiver's using statistics to demonstrate some of his points. And one of his major points is that statistics is the favorite instrument of administrative magic. But other than that, this an inisightful, bracing work which deserves wide readership.<br />Among other tricks, plastic words -- the empty incantations of administrative magic -- are herein revealed. Use them vigorously, use them prolifically, and you will go far! Also revealed the basic structure of all advertising communications (based on Neil Postman's insights): discontent =&gt; contentment =&gt; ecstasy. Indeed in the wrong hands this books is a gold mine of strategies for the cynical and unscrupulous in media, government, and business, as it clearly explains how all of this bogus magic works. But will they be more dangerous if they know what they're doing? Probably. Because then their cynicism will be all the more complete, they will be all the more dangerous. We can only hope Stivers' pungent, stinging prose and death(-state) defying criticism is strong enough to scare them off!or points is that statistics is the favorite instrument of administrative magic. But other than that, this an inisightful, bracing work which deserves wide readership. <br />Among other tricks, plastic words -- the empty incantations of administrative magic -- are herein revealed. Use them vigorously, use them prolifically, and you will go far! Also revealed the basic structure of all advertising communications (based on Neil Postman's insights): discontent =&gt; contentment =&gt; ecstasy. Indeed in the wrong hands this books is a gold mine of strategies for the cynical and unscrupulous in media, government, and business, as it clearly explains how all of this bogus magic works. But will they be more dangerous if they know what they're doing? Probably. Because then their cynicism will be all the more complete, they will be all the more dangerous. We can only hope Stivers' pungent, stinging prose and death(-state) defying criticism is strong enough to scare them off!	2001-11-25
US	50506686	R33UCPIN52OBM9	1576751252	939315061	The Divine Right of Capital: Dethroning the Corporate Aristocracy	Books	4	34	37	N	N	The New Feudal State	I was thrilled with Marjorie Kelly's extended analogy of the corporate state as the last bastion of feudal state (and the belief system which upheld it, i.e., the great chain of being, the divine right of kings, etc.).  In her introduction, Kelley warns us that she may overuse the analogy -- but really, it's not possible.  Nor is the analogy of the American Revolution as a revolution against a regime which saw Americans as colonials (and thus with limited rights -- as England &quot;owned&quot; us, our energies and the goods we produced).  <br />The feudal metaphor explains the queasy feeling most workers get when their advice is solicited in quality circles (it's because its like we're being patronized by the nobles, who are only asking us how we feel to have more effective dominion over us).  It explains the pervasive lack of trust employees have for their employers (the lord of the manor only has his interests at heart, and only pays lip service to the importance of developing and keeping employees: when the chips are down, it's bye-bye serfs).  She drags out of the shadows the biases of 18th century models of economic man and the nascent industrial system it described, and demostrates how current conceptual frameworks of business are based on feudal values.  The king is the law, the law is designed for property owners to enforce their power,  labor is always seen negatively, as a cost, an inconvenience, a population that must be ruled.   She notes that in current accouting practices, labor and employees are seen on the expense side of the equation, as liabilities, not assets. This anti-democratic bias is so deeply woven into the fabric of how we think about business and how we're taught about business by MBAs, by business scholars, by the media, by the political and corporate establishmen, that to finally bring &quot;wealthism&quot; to surface amounts to a revolutionary act.  <br />At its heart, the Divine Right of Capital is a conversion story.  Ms. Kelly, as the 15 year editor/owner of a publication called Business Ethics, wakes up one morning to find that all the platitudes about growing corporate responsiblity, corporate environmental sensitivity, the new kinder and gentler workplace that she had been writing about was never going to work.  That a revolution in how we think about business is required.  She and her fellow business ethicists were trapped in the conceptual structures of corporate thinking, corporate doublespeak. Since the first commandment of this regime is: the shareholder is King, the Shareholder-King is the only party who needs should be considered (employees? those varlets!) and the Shareholder King is only interested in profit, and thus the corporation must only serve this one master -- a domination structure which is firmly embedded in Ford vs. Dodge, a 1919 Supreme Court Decision, that tends to be viewed as the &quot;latest thing&quot; in corporate governance law.  With this conceptual structure in place, and reinforced in other Supreme Court decisions, common law, MBA programs, and the government, Kelly realized business can never become democratized, but must only serve the wealthy speculator or investor class who serves them.               <br />Quoting American revolutionaries at length and efffectively -- a good strategy as the conservative business elements hold them in such idolatrous regard -- Kelly shows us why we Jeffersonian cube farmers must rise and throw off the psychological shackles of the private corporation!  Undermine the bogus rhetoric of executive committee of the bourgeouisie and the speculation class!  She studiously avoids Marx, because ultimately she believes in the market, she just believes in a new conceptual framework that more reasonably reflects the modern corporation: i.e., that in a knowledge economy, employees are the one thing that is really valuable unlike in the old Robber Baron days, when the track and locomotives and the right of way was valuable -- the things of a company.  <br />Very reasonable, packed with good, well-researched facts, the only thing wrong with it is that she is entirely too reasonable.  She's been living with the enemy too long and thus writes drily, and quotes facts and figures to make her points.  Tom Paine, whom she often quotes here, was a bombthrower.  And although what she is saying may be earthshattering to some, what's needed is cataclysmic break with the past.	2001-11-19
US	50506686	R1AWPGCL5G6TKR	0738204080	818061203	Gonzo Marketing: Winning Through Worst Practices	Books	5	12	17	N	N	The Revenge of the Lifeworld	Jurgen Habermas, the German sociologist, whom Locke mentions in passing in this energizing screed, once said that modernity is the story of &quot;the colonization of the lifeworld by systems logics.&quot;  Locke, who confesses that he found Habermas unreadable (he's not alone there), and who also confesses he's never read Nietzsche (he notes that Nietzsche was the guy who in declaring &quot;God is dead&quot; was the first philosopher to call the modern project into question), is, whether he knows it or not, (or pretends to know only glancingly) rather heavily indebted to these two Germans.  To Nietzsche he's indebted for his observation that all knowledge is perspectival and interpretive (or networked to use Locke's terminolgy), and to Habermas for his insight into the intrusive power of &quot;instrumental reason&quot; into civil society (a term from Weber, yet another German sociologist whom Locke also mentions in passing).  What I'm driving at here is that Locke, although he may be taken to be radical or revolutionary or gonzo in the corporate world, is well within the boundaries of &quot;traditional&quot; sociological and philosophical thought.  He's only a little post-modernist.    <br />His basic argument, that marketers and corporations are so bollixed up in their MBA administrative magic, their causal relationships, their logistical regressions, their predictive models, their superstitious belief in categories of people (teens, edge teens, Hispanics, edge Hispanics) their abstractions of people into &quot;targets,&quot; and &quot;eyeballs,&quot; that the bureacratic procedures and abstractions and statistics and images and rhetorics the deathworld have implanted implant in us have become a blight upon the face of the earth.  He is at his best in these passages.  But he doesn't stop there, and that's the problem.  <br />He has a program.  He thinks the deathworld of products, psuedo-events, and the bar code and might be persuaded into seeing that the lifeworldis the real world, the thick and historical world and that the deathworld can be made to see that by surrendering the command and control view of people through a program of empowering micromarkets within the corporation and outside the corporation that the surrender might bring forth and new  utopia.  He knows that people are the driving force behind all the creativity and energy and play within the world, and that the MBA marketing world is the thin world, the empty world, the ahistorical world which must like a vampire suck the blood of lifeworld to make a buck.  I think he is wise enough to know that his program is just a kinder and gentler version of the debasement of the lifeword: to his credit he approaches his program gingerly.  But by even making suggestions, no matter how &quot;gonzo&quot; they may be, he's giving the branders ideas.  I prefer him when he excoriates the marketing gurus, when he rants and jokes.  He's not so interesting when he drops names, and talks about his credentials.  But I forgive him for this.  In the deathworld credentials have magical power. And since he's really trying to get these denizens of death to listen, and knows his quarry, he knows he must credential.  And since he's straddling the Internet world and the MBA world, he must mention Esther Dyson and Tom Peters. <br />And so here's where we differ.  I want them to all go to hell.  I don't want corporations to turn into funders of &quot;voice,&quot; of the multitude as Locke suggests.  I don't want the deathworld to come to see itself as patrons of the lifeworld in the service of some new customer service, or lifeworld empowerment or anything else that allows them to get their technocratic claws in a little deeper.  I want them to flip-flap uregenerately on their way, with their deafening quasi-magical incantations about the brand, the brand, the brand beating about their ears.   I want them to continue to bandy about empty terms like &quot;consumer loyalty,&quot; &quot;consumer trust,&quot; &quot;permission marketing.&quot;  I want them to continue praying to Harvard, to  the gods logit, probit, and niche.  We of the multitude take delight in their obtuseness, their irrelevance, their emptiness.  Don't spoil it, man!<br />I realize somebody's got to help him pay his rent (an accusation he flings at marketing gurus, so it's only fair that it's flung at him).  But why not just let the deathworld (which he rightly characterizes as in-corporate, i.e., bodiless, mindless, bloodless) dream their dreams of administrative magic, of technological domination, and the almighty brand image?  We like to watch them thrashing around, like pterodactyls trapped in ancient tarpits.  If they should somehow get free and take flight, who knows what wickedness they'll come to practice next?	2001-11-15
US	50506686	RKO3M2D91NIPB	0415919789	1982760	Cyborg Citizen: Politics in the Posthuman Age	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Call Me Cyborg	Written in the personal, post-modern style, down to earth, and occasionally profound, Cyborg Citizen is an instructive meditation on the interpenetration of the machine and the human, the machine and the non-human, the human and the non-human.  Hables Gray reviews most of the relevant academic literature (Haraway and others) draws examples of cyborg lifestyles from the news (Christopher Reeves and others), from pop culture (TV, Sci-Fi, comic books) to make his larger point that the signs of cyborgization are everywhere now, and that we are all cyborgs now, whether we know it or not.  Though penetrated by technoscience, most of us are not aware of the extent to which we have become drafted in the great cyborg experiment.  Hables Gray argues we need to find new ways of thinking about the intersection of science, technology, and living things in order to make better (or at least some!) choices about where the technoscience juggernaut is taking us.  <br />He explores a variety of different areas where political thinking has either been ineffective or brushed aside by the exigencies of technoscience and capitalism: Frankenfoods, franken-species, cloning, in-vitro fertilization practices are all covered, as are transgendering and cyborgization in pursuit of sexual fulfillment.  He does equal justice to all the complexities these collisions entail. That's why I didn't give the book the full 5 stars, actually, because not all these topics deserve examination at the same length.  But that's a minor complaint, of course.<br />After reading Cyborg Citizen you will find examples of cyborgs everywhere.  Of course, as tool users and builders and putterers, we've always been cyborgs -- as much shaped by our tools as the things we've shaped with them -- but the recognition of this fact and how it plays out across the realms of the civic, the economic, the scientific and technological as described in Cyborg Citizen will show the reader how far we are from Rousseau's state of nature-- if indeed there ever was such a place -- but that we may not have much further to go before the tools and cyborgs we build remake the world into place where we would not choose to live, indeed, a world where we may not be able to live.  Not anti-techoscience, but rather, pro-thoughtful technoscience, Gray lays out the conundrums simply and argues that to be only pro or anti-techoscience is a luxury we cannot afford.  Ultimately, he argues that as cyborgs we have to start thinking about what that really means.	2001-10-23
US	50506686	R104344IGISBE0	0674006712	431315804	Empire	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Imperialism Gives Way to Empire	Among other insights, Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri have a  very interesting take on the near simultaneous end in both the U.S. and Soviet Union of Fordism and the disciplinary state.     They suggest it was the &quot;multitude&quot; in both nations (or the &quot;proletariat&quot; which they define as just about everybody in the age of Empire) rebelling against the industrial factory/modern project which destabilized both nations. This runs counter to the usual top-down explanations for the rise of postmodern economics (They do include the litany of usual top-down causes such as Nixon abandoning the gold standard, the challenge posed by the suddenly recompetitive economies of Germany and Japan, but the explanation of the multitude's rejection of the Fordist state gets top billing and feels more true.)  <br />Similarly, their identification and description of the rise of the postmodern global Empire feels right, too.  In one of the more compelling passages, they describe a structure that is everywhere and nowhere, ready to be activated through crisis (such as the WTC attack), a supranational structure of domination that is slowly, with each crisis, becoming more and more immanent.  When George W. Bush talks about the enemies of freedom, the civilized world versus the non-civilized world the voice of empire is clearly audible.  And I buy their argument that imperialism has been replaced by &quot;Empire&quot; as they define it.  Similarly, I agree that it is time for academics to stop raking through the dead coals of imperialist history for insight into the politics of power and domination.  It is the world of Empire that needs describing and destabilizing.     <br />Written at a very high (about 30,000 feet) theoretical and rhetorical level, Negri and Hardt see and describe much.  What's missing are solid recommendations for the multitude to work it's will in the world of Empire -- a program which is alluded to frequently in first half of the book, but given short shrift at the end.  Nevertheless, they do to a limited extent provide those who might consider going to protest an IMF and World Bank meeting a new way to think about what's bugging them, and some positive recommendations -- such as &quot;global citizenship&quot; to rival &quot;global capitalism&quot; and a &quot;social wage&quot; -- that could be part of the new agenda of struggle.	2001-10-08
US	50506686	R11KBI10Q64LC1	1558492844	460816287	The Ivory Leg in the Ebony Cabinet: Madness, Race, and Gender in Victorian America	Books	4	5	6	N	N	You (&amp; They) Are How You Think About You (&amp; Them)	Cooley's amply proved premise that the psychological models proposed by late 18th century Scottish philosopher's (&quot;faculty psychology&quot;) and by racial theorists such as Harvard's Agasizz are greatly in evidence in American letters throughout the antebellum period, is convincing, and in its own quiet way, revolutionary.   <br />In faculty psychology, the emotions and the intellect are engaged in an endless fight for the &quot;ear&quot; of the will.  Each has it's separate compartment in the mind and operates independently.  Phrenology was a further breakdown into smaller and smaller compartments of these elements.  Cooley demonstrates in a number of examples in works such as &quot;Moby Dick,&quot; &quot;The House of the Seven Gables,&quot; &quot;The Scarlet Letter,&quot; and &quot;Uncle Tom's Cabin&quot; that the characters' thought processes often seem static or &quot;jointed.&quot;  It isn't until later in the 19th century in &quot;Huck Finn&quot; that a proto-modern &quot;stream of consciousness&quot; voice is introduced by Twain.  Emily Dickinson, rejecting the faculty psychology model she was undoubtedly taught in school, also rethinks through her poetry how the mind really seems to work.  <br />In concentrating on the psychological perspective, I'm giving short shrift to Cooley's other concerns: how gender and race were conceived in this era.  The fruitful discussions of the &quot;White Black Man&quot; (Uncle Tom) and the &quot;Black White Man&quot; (Huck Finn), the insight into the endless descriptions of houses in 19th century fiction (the house was a lot like the mind as it was conceived -- &quot;full of rooms&quot;). A fascinating discussion of &quot;whiteness&quot; as it appears in the form of Moby Dick, and as the &quot;white&quot; boiling center of a raging cataract face by one of Poe's heroes, gives rise to a new interpretation of Melville's Moby Dick that runs counter to that of the &quot;castrating&quot; you-know-what proposed by Leslie Feidler.  <br />It can be gnarly to read; Cooley requires your full concentration.  Such concentration is often rewarded by his witty, often engrossing, sometimes startling perspective, but sometimes you just wish he'd take the style down a notch or two for us non-specialists.	2001-10-03
US	50506686	R9S0NW20E8UNJ	1572305622	897052136	Right-Wing Populism in America: Too Close for Comfort	Books	3	31	38	N	N	Exhaustive and Exhausting	The schematic that Berlet and Lyons propose to categorize various right wing populist movements throughout American history in the beginning of this exhaustive and exhausting survey is a fairly reasonable analytical tool.  The problem is that it tends to constrain the historical analysis because each group, introduced in sequence, must be fitted into it's proper place within the scheme.  It wears thin pretty fast.<br />They've done their research, they cite the right authors, they dig deeply into the past, but soon it's all merely additive, not insightful.  It works like this: first a description of this movement, then this one, both of which shared some traits, then this one which developed a new means of expressing their xenophobia, etc.  What it all adds up to is that any insights about these groups, or their proliferation, tend to be located within a fairly narrow range of observation.<br />Still it's a good reference work, and, if you're interested in the learning some of the tactics used by these groups to destroy the last vestiges of the neoliberal orthodoxy, to draw boundaries around groups who are not white, not male, not Christian, not true Americans, this book is a good place to start.	2001-09-21
US	50506686	R3QPVS4Y4O4X44	0262024640	493473	Dreamworld and Catastrophe: The Passing of Mass Utopia in East and West	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	Daddy Stalin and Warbucks: Friends 'Til the End	Buck-Morss's tale of the sputtering, guttering end of the modern Fordist disciplinary project both in the U.S.A and in the Soviet Union is a stunner. Most compelling are the historical insights -- told with particular elegance through the comparison of patriotic and advertising images -- that show how similar both projects really were! Some of the historical tidbits stick in the mind never to be dislodged: Daddy Stalin asking Henry Ford to come build him a factory to make tractors in the middle of the Depression. Lenin's admiration for Frederick Taylor. Amazing how the salvation for both communists and capitalists was the same industrial regime, the same worker's paradise of factory labor!<br />The second half of the book, a kind of diary of cross-cultural US/Soviet cultural exchanges prior to and after the Berlin Wall, is interesting but less intellectually energizing. Still, there is a great deal of wit in Ms. Buck-Morss's observation that Western Marxist critics such as Frederick Jameson (who attended some of the same seminars with Soviet intellectuals that Buck-Morss did) seem less willing to give up on the socialist dreamscape than their Soviet counterparts. <br />A great companion read is Michael Hardt's and Antonio Negri's &quot;Empire&quot; which really has an interesting take on the near simultaneous end of Fordism and the disciplinary state in both the U.S. and Soviet Union. They suggest it was the &quot;multitude&quot; or proletariat in both nations who rebelled against the industrial factory/modern project and destabilized both, an argument which runs counter to the usual top-down explanations for the rise of postmodern economics. <br />Interesting how we're told these days that the Soviets, now suffering in the hot bath of capitalism, are nostalgic for the certainty of the Daddy Stalin years. Perhaps their nostalgia is not so different than Baby Boomer Americans' nostalgia for the lost innocence of the early 50s/60s, the Golden Age of American economichegemony, before the New Deal project finally collapsed. Now that the veil has dropped it seems we had a lot more in common with &quot;them&quot;(us) than we ever thought we did. And still do!	2001-09-20
US	50506686	R3F04PZ4N7R1ZR	0374279411	409578301	Trying It Out in America: Literary and Other Perfomanaces	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Insightful, Less Than Delightful	Dense. Deep.  That Poirier knows his stuff.  He knows it cold, and he's been doing a lot of thinking about American authors, too.  He's got some fine ideas about them.  And a mighty big vocabulary he uses in expressing those ideas.  What he hasn't got is any way into his thinking for people who don't know as much as he does.  He doesn't talk down to this uninitiated reader; he simply ignores him/her.  I confess I could only get about halfway through his latest, and I'm the kind of reader who doesn't quit lightly.  So while I found some good stuff in here -- his writings on Whitman especially -- I got tired of having to reread everything twice.  Maybe you'll have more patience.	2001-09-18
US	50506686	R75PMAY3MB6SQ	1572306653	774794175	The Postmodern Adventure: Science, Technology, and Cultural Studies at the Third Millennium	Books	3	11	23	N	N	All the Trendy Horses	Part of the fun of reading postmodern criticism is its  outlandishness,its attacks on conventional modern modes of thought.  Best and Kellner, well-versed in the theories of Derrida, Lacan, Baudrillard, Bordieu and the other wild beasts of France and their worldwide acolytes, manage to take much of the fun right out them.  In a style that is pendantic, dull, but full of insight, they trace the interpenetration of the modern with the postmodern and talk reasonably about the irreasonable.  Good content, bad style.	2001-09-11
US	50506686	R3RZV4TEUGII9X	0520225783	100060967	Spaces of Hope (California Studies in Critical Human Geography)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Time and Space and Karl Marx	In his introduction to &quot;Spaces of Hope,&quot; David Harvey relates how much the times have changed since he began teaching Marx's Capital in the early 1970s. Back then, he didn't openly specify the content of the class in the course catalog -- he felt sure the powers that were at Johns Hopkins at the time would shut him down. At that time, he tells us, no one in U.S. academia (except for a few foreign professors) had ever really read Marx. The interest at that time was directly related to the recent &quot;revolutionary&quot; fervor time of the late 60s/early 70s wherein Mao and Che Guevera, the Weather Underground, etc., were countercultural icons and Marx's Captial was seen to be the source of their revolutionary program. When the Berlin wall came down, Marx's reputation as came down with it. Now, thirty years after he started teaching it, Harvey finds he has fewer students than ever, but that the text itself is perhaps even more relevant now than it has ever been. He notes that convincing others of its relevance is a difficlt task these days partly because there is no political apparatus to give weight to Marx's ideas, but also because post-modernism and identity politics have tended to denigrate mass political movements as &quot;master narratives&quot; that cannot be trusted. Harvey thinks it's time to get a new revolution going, and he thinks Marx's observations go a long way toward helping us think clearly about the world in which we live and how we might change it. <br />After the personal note sounded in the introduction, Harvey then takes up his real program which is a history of the production of space and under capitalism in the service of trying to create his new revolutionary consciousness to ameliorate, sabotage, rewrite, or replace the prevailing capitalist discourse with new ways of seeing our bodies, the spaces we create and live in. He discusses our impact on the earth and other species and explores new forms of consciousness that grow out of that new sensitivity. At the center of the book is an examination of how deindustrialization has gutted his Baltimore over the past 30 years he's lived there, the rise of the racialized service economy, the rise of the real estate speculators in cahoots with city planners giving massive tax abatements in mostly failed attempts to revitalize the city. This is a subject Harvey knows intimately, and in his description of Baltimore's woes he tells the disheartening story of so many mid-sized American cities which have been struggling to stay afloat during the exportation of blue collar jobs starting in the 70s.  Harvey's chapters on the body as an accumulation strategy (quoting Donna Haraway) offer a good history and discussion of the post-modern rejection of the Des Cartes body/mind duality. He considers the body in the Foucauldian sense of society and its spaces and regimes enforcing discipline and docility, and also considers how our bodies are shaped by capital -- work hours, repetitive acts, the food we eat, the tobacco we smoke -- but interestingly, also discusses the body in terms of variable capital, Marx's terminology.<br />Harvey does a credible job of resurrecting a classic for a new generation, showing how it relates to current postmodern themes. One of his best ideas is to see that we have been in the process of creating utopias in two main ways over the past 500 years or so. The grounded utopias of Sir Thomas More and others, who draw maps and imagine the human relations that might occur in the spaces they create, and the &quot;process utopias&quot; like Adam Smith's view of the invisible hand of captilism making us all better, clothing us, feeding us, improving us. Harvey's most powerful explorations have to do with how capital has created the spaces that capital requires, mostly to the detriment of people, but to the benefit of capital.	2001-09-10
US	50506686	RDUDI0G8Y6WJ6	0195144937	187766342	The Kid of Coney Island: Fred Thompson and the Rise of American Amusements	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Rise of the New Leisure Class	Fred Thompson was the &quot;kid&quot; (he was in his early twenties when he built Luna Park in Coney Island) who first recognized that the American middle class in the early 20th century was ripe for amusement and fun, ready to embrace consumption, fun and leisure as a moral system. Here he is given his due as a great innovator (inventor of the theme park), and a great showman (Broadway producer of mega-extravaganzas). Woody Register's highly readable and extremely insightful book is not just about Fred Thompson (of which there is very little historical information other than press releases, scattered interviews and new stories about Thompson's endeavors and stunts), but is all about the break between the early industrial age (all about saving and putting aside wages for a rainy day, Victorian respectability, the patriarchal society and responsibility) and the dawning of the modern age of consumption (spending for the fun of it, disrepectable activities, the newly feminized office-based white collar man and irresponsiblity). Thompson was the first entreprenuer to sell the idea of childhood as a lifelong event sustained through the agency of the carnival, the theme park, the toy. His genius lay in combining the new conception of childhood as a time of &quot;innocent joy&quot; with the new era of comsumption for consumption's sake. A wild spender, he died penniless, still enthusiastic, still working on his next big project, a perfect exemplar of the new boy/man Peter Pan personality he was instrumental in creating. According to Mr. Register's Introduction, this work took him much longer to write than he expected it would. We are the beneficiaries of his extended and meticulous labors -- this book is sure to beome a classic cultural studies text.	2001-09-10
US	50506686	R1W33ONLS8JA0L	0679741801	994238422	The Image: A Guide to Pseudo-Events in America	Books	5	164	172	N	N	Credibility vs. Truth, Hero vs. Celebrity	&quot;A celebrity is a person who is well-known for their well-knownness&quot; -- an observation from this book that is one of the most often quoted bits of wisdom on the subject of celebrity, and deservedly so.   But this is just one of many quotable observations made by Boorstin in this prescient, clear-eyed look at the beginning of the post-modern world.  Written in 1962, this book has been mined by writers on modern society of every stripe: French postmods (who don't credit Boorstin), Neil Postman (who does).  Though it suffers a bit from the outdated examples used to elucidate his points about the &quot;Graphic Revolution&quot; -- his line in the sand between the modern and pre-modern -- the book is so cogently argued that it rarely matters.   <br />His main thematic device is to dichotomize pre-modern and modern/postmodern categories.  For instance, in discussing celebrity he notes that the precursor of the celebrity was the hero.  He explains the difference by saying that the hero was &quot;folk&quot; based, while the celebrity is &quot;mass&quot; based.  George Washington was raised to the level of hero by the people for his deeds, his fame embroidered by them, cherry trees invented for him to chop down.  On the other hand, celebrities -- the Gabor sisters to use one of his examples -- were celebrities before they even starred in movies.  They were created by astute publicists and through their own knack of getting into the paper.<br />He actually starts his discussion about how the image has come to be substituted for ideals in his first chapter on the gathering and dissemination of the news.  He notes the rise of the pseudo-event, e.g., the press conference, the press leak, the crafty reporter calling sources and playing their quotes off of each other until the reporter arrives at something he can call news.  He notes that newpapers actually used to contain reportage on events, things that had actually happened that were not designed to be covered by the media.  Crimes, he notes in his summary, are the almost the only kind of real news left. (This before the era of copycat murders).  <br />A brilliant, insightful diagnosis of our image-laden world that still holds up after 40 years.  The only thing that's changed perhaps is how accustomed we've gotten to the image and the extent to which we're now sold on authenticity by marketers.  His discussion of Barnum as the precursor to advertising is worth the price of the book.  His sections on public opinion polling, on public relations, on advertising are dead on, too.  He also takes on the sociologists of the time for their &quot;nodal&quot; thinking, their bland concepts such as &quot;status anxiety.&quot;  No one is spared.  <br />The twist the postmods put on Boorstin's observations is that they say they take delight in the artificiality of the image, the bricolage, the spectacle, etc.  (A postmod may be best known for their too-knowing knowingness and celebration of deception).  But Boorstin is actually concerned about the destabilizing effects of the acceptance of the standard of &quot;credibility&quot; (which has supplanted &quot;truth&quot;).  Too, he's worried that the American image we project is not based on ideas or ideals, but only things, only images.  He says at one point that folks in the developing world prefer not to be hammered with the look of all things American, that it makes us look shallow as compared to those societies which are based on ideas (like Communism was -- ironically enough because it was founded on materialism).  And though our images and our things apparently won out over Communism, there is still something pertinent about this observation.  Pragmatism may have saved us from the ravages of idealism that gave rise to facist movements in Europe, but it spared us so that we could look empty-headed, only interested in moving ahead, unquestioningly.	2001-08-09
US	50506686	R1SEZZC5QB1M6Q	0679764895	756467539	Mr. Wilson's Cabinet of Wonder: Pronged Ants, Horned Humans, Mice on Toast, and Other Marvels of Jurassic Technology	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Premod Meets Postmod at Museum of Jurassic Tech	Wechler's exploration of wonder through the objects contained in David Wilson's store-front museum in Culver City, California is truly thought-provoking, often subversive.  Gratefully, we are often suspended in the what seems to be the same world of belief/disbelief created by Mr. Wilson's remarkable conjurations. Part mystery story (what items in the museum are actual, what are embroideries of facts and what are out and out hoaxes, and more mundanely, where did Wilson get the idea for that strange collection of cities listed in the frontispiece of his catalogs) and part meditation on the history of wonder (and anti-wonder) as exemplified in the museum from the early modern period to the present day, Mr. Wechsler tells us about the work David Wilson in such a way as to excite our enjoyment and intellectual play. One can only hope that this book will create enough interest in the work of Museum of Jurassic Technology to keep it going for a long, long time.  Next time I'm in Los Angeles, it'll be my very first stop.  Great illustrations, too!	2001-08-02
US	50506686	R2TX6IYOKTFILD	0816637571	631702935	Textures Of Place: Exploring Humanist Geographies	Books	4	12	14	N	N	All Over the Place	Collections are difficult to review, especially one as wide-ranging as this.  The thread that (supposedly) holds this collection together is that it is inspired by Yi-Fu Tuan, a &quot;humanist geographer&quot; (who, judging from his essay, and the many bouquets thrown his way in the other essays), is the very picture of a modernist major geographer.  <br />What is a geographer these days you might ask?  If you were to read this book, you would have to believe that everyone who has ever read any postmodern thinkers on the subject of boundaries and/or space is a geographer.  That means just about everybody, of course, as postmodernists are all about space and, dare I say it, spatiality.   How soon will place be converted into platiality?   <br />Despite my snarky comments above, I like this book.  Some of it  postmodern ideas are only rearticulations of stuff hardcore guys like Derrida are known for, except here is is told from the perspective of geographers.  I'm not sure what makes these folks geographers exactly -- in fact a couple of them are teachers of medieval literature -- but, I am sure that the majority of these essays are thoughtful and thought-provoking.  Particulary fine is Wilbur Zelinsky's &quot;The World and Its Identity Crisis&quot; which sketches out a (very) shematic history of the world and our place in it.  Here's a quote:<br />&quot;We find ourselves caged in a curious world of contradictions, of unprecedented personal and group anxieties.  The freedom to comparison-shop among lifestyles, to rotate among multiple identities, this culmination of millennia of human struggle and progress, such power and flexibility, all this has failed to generate the bliss one might have anticipated or hoped for.  Instead an increasingly large segment of First World populations, and incipiently others as well, has begun to wonder who or what they are, or should be.&quot;<br />Here he is quoting Zygmunt Bauman:<br />&quot;Postmodernity is the point at which modern untying (dis-embedding, dis-encumbering) of tied (embedded, situated) identities reaches its completion: it is now all too easy to choose identity, but no longer possible to hold it.  At the moment of ultimate triumph, the liberation succeeds in annihilating its object...Freedom...has given the postmodern seekers of identity all the powers of Sisyphus.&quot;<br />So, this collection offers the general reader a chance to check out what's going on in the new world of humanist geography. Essentially it's re-thinking the ways the world, space and place have been thought about, and are thought about, which is what most post-modern stuff does.  Good illustrations, mostly good writing which in some cases opens up new territory, and in others, treads over old, but still interesting, ground.	2001-07-17
US	50506686	R3LZ31NOY4YLC2	0231122748	640238920	Carried Away: The Invention of Modern Shopping	Books	4	8	9	N	N	What Do Shoppers Want?	The best thing about &quot;Carried Away,&quot; is the research Bowlby has done on marketers' changing models of shoppers' consciousness.  She deftly shows that these models are empty of any true psychological insight, but instead entirely bound up with the culture and the time and the economic circumstances in which the models were devised.  The worst thing is that she spends too much time researching British marketing publications from the 50s and 60s.  The US has always been the hot molten center of marketing and retail trends -- a fact which Bowlby readily acknowledges throughout most of the book -- thus the inclusion textual readings from old British marketing journals seems to have everything to do with Bowlby being a professor in England and her original publisher being British, and nothing to do with whether this information is really appropriate.  <br />But this is a relatively minor annyonance in what is really quite a witty, interesting look at the rise of the supermarket and the concomitant creation of new packaging, new advertising, new models of the shopper consciousness.  Bowlby is at her best here, giving us an historical perspective of shoppers (mostly women in the early days of supermarket shopping) who,depending on the theorist, are believed to be extremely suggestible given certain conditions, or extremely rational no matter what the conditions.  For instance, in the 50s, that era of mass outputs and mass consumption and McCarthyism, some social critics like Vance Parkard posited that advertisers were &quot;hidden persuaders&quot; using sophisticated brainwashing techniques to sell weak-minded women things they did not really need.  But in the 60s and 70s, the model of shopper consciousness shifted.   Suddenly, the shopper -- still nearly always seen as a woman -- was in charge, &quot;with it,&quot; &quot;sophisticated.&quot;  The rise of the &quot;power brand&quot; in the 80s -- a time during which the appeals of certain brands were apparently sooverwhelming that even the sophisticated 70s shopper succumbed -- swung the pendulum back to the weak-minded model.  Bowlby neatly lampoons the variations these psycological models have gone through since the rise of the supermarket, but notes that ultimately, this bipolar model is still intact.  <br />I particularly recommend &quot;Carried Away&quot; to marketers, especially young marketers who have never seen the vacillation in the models of shopper consciousness.  Take it to the next marketer's conference you attend.  It's the perfect antidote to those enlessly dull days spent listening to hour after hour of case studies in which consumers are uniformly described as &quot;sophisticated,&quot; or &quot;savvy.&quot;   Bowlby's light touch and eye for the absurd will help you keep all the tepid, instrumetally tainted &quot;shopper psychology&quot; in perspective.	2001-07-09
US	50506686	R37YWA0QHGGOSK	0674004493	294043972	Writing for an Endangered World: Literature, Culture, and Environment in the U.S. and Beyond (Belknap Press)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Reading Between the Lines into the New, New World	Employing a crypto-academic style that is by turns baffling, enervating but often frequently stimulating, Buell puts modernists classics of literature through their paces through the optics of &quot;environmental criticism,&quot; a movement of which he and a few others appear to be the primary practictioners (from what I can glean from the book, the bibliography and the liner notes).  <br />For example, his environmental criticism of Moby Dick is really quite a marvelous way to re-imagine the Melville classic as a text in which the boundaries between the consciousnesses of whales and men are elided through Melville's sympathetic and candid reportage of the whaling expedition and his inclusion of chapters on whaling lore.  He does another marvelous job on Faulkner's &quot;The Bear&quot; and the collection in which it originally appeared, noting that the narrator's description of the abandoned sawmills, the clear-cut forests and the resulting floods and related catastrophes create an emblematic context for the telling of the vexed, multi-layered story of the end of the Southern elitist hunting tradition through the agency of extractive industrialization.  His reading of DeLillo's White Noise restores its enviromental concerns (the Airborne Toxic Event) to its rightful place at the forefront of the DeLillo's topos -- unlike many other recent readings which do not mention this theme.  (Buell notes that such ommissions in what is rapidly becoming a touchstone work in the realm of cultural criticism is a disservice to the book and to DeLillo's environmental concerns demonstrated in his other works such as Underworld, a view that I entirely agree with: I was working at DeLillo's publisher at the time of White Noise's release, and it's publication happened to coincide with a real airborne toxic event in New Jersey, a happy coincidence which not only highlighted this imporant aspect of the work, but, happily for the publishers spurred sales of the book in its prescience.)<br />There are other interesting readings of notable works of fiction and non-fiction through the lens of environmental criticism as well.  Too, the introductory chapters which examine the various types of &quot;toxic&quot; discourses and describe how they restrict how we think of our relationship to the natural and man-made worlds are quite good as well.  So are the final chapters which deal with changing our conceptions of nature (once primary nature, now a second-hand, or second-nature, which he argues should include manmade enviroments as well).  Here he also encourages using the idea of the watershed as an organizing principle of locality and the most appropriate frame of our environmental imagination -- not arbitrary boundaries placed on the landscape either in theory or in practice.  <br />But as you might suspect from the above, Buell covers a lot of territory with this book.  Perhaps this is because in advancing the notion of environmental criticism he feels compelled to treat a lot of areas than would normally be necessary in a more deeply populated field of criticism.  Don't get me wrong.  Just because there's a lot to chew over in this book, doesn't mean it's bad.  Much of it quite good, in fact.  For instance, Buell is very attentive and inventive in his readings of Whitman, Thoreau, Williams Carlos Williams, Joyce, et. al.  He also includes a number of well-selected non-canonical works which illustrate his theses imaginatively.  To summarize, good readings, an interesting, if too somtimess too diffuse programme, a defect which can be easily forgiven.  Now if only the style was more &quot;grounded.&quot;	2001-07-06
US	50506686	R1LE3LPHW1V87S	0745623980	974422201	The Brave New World of Work	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Across the Great Divide	When he's good, he's great.  Some passages in this book, especially those dealing with Beck's idea of a new civil society that must be forged out of the remains of the social welfare contract, are inspiring.  When he's not so good, it's because he's repetitive, or because he's speaking so generally about the effects of the global economy that he veers into vague abstraction at the expense of driving his thesis home.  Because it's a challenging thesis -- the idea of paid civil work as a way to (re)create a truly democratic society -- and because it's articulation is at least partially supported through data, it's easy to forgive the sometimes too-general perspective.  <br />Read as a companion &quot;The Global Age&quot; by Martin Albrow, which is quoted in The Brave New World of Work, and interestingly, has the same strengths and weaknesses: an interestingly theory (we've moved past the post-modern age into the &quot;global age&quot; wherein the interconnectedness of humanity belies old national boundaries and notions of class), and a sometimes too abstract  style.	2001-07-06
US	50506686	R1ON9LY4240QQE	0801437377	173085365	Crossing the Great Divide: Worker Risk and Opportunity in the New Economy (ILR Press Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Brave New World of Work	In &quot;Crossing the Great Divide,&quot; Ms. Smith explores four organizations and sizes up their employment and personnel practices against the rhetorics of social science and global economy theorists. What she finds is a much more complex picture than the theorists allow for.  In and of itself, this is a great service to readers interested in the &quot;Brazilianization&quot; of the Western work force(see Ulrich Beck's &quot;The Brave New World of Work for a good companion read), because, as Smith notes, most of the writing on this phenomenon tends to either demonize those companies who practice &quot;perma-temp&quot; strategies as exploitative, or to praise them as leading-edge companies which are reacting to the exigencies of global capitalism.  <br />An example from Smith's book may be helpful.  One of the companies where she conducts research, a new company which she pseudonomously calls &quot;Reproco,&quot; contracts with firms (such as law firms and other organizations) to provide copying service -- a complete service including copiers and copy machine operators.  The machine operators are paid a little more than minimum wage, are shuttled from one location to another every six months, are given little chance of advancement, but they are given training in interpersonal relations, scheduling, business goals, etc.  For many Reproco employees -- most of whom worked in low-paying jobs in the service industry flipping burgers and have a high school education or less, this training gives them insight into business and handling business relationships that they never had before.  So, while the constant shuttling from location to location works to prevent the formation of unions, the lessons in business practices activates a new sense of self-regard and potentiality the employees have rarely experienced.  <br />Smith then contasts these workers at &quot;WoodWorks&quot; an old economy &quot;extractive&quot; business in the Pacific Northwest which manufactures buildingmaterials (plywood, studs, etc.) The workforce has been downsized through technology upgrades and in reaction to the global market, and employees hopes for lifetime employment are coming to an end.  &quot;Woodworks&quot; has employed a quality control program which attempts to engage workers more fully into all aspects on the business -- from understanding balance sheets, improving manufacturing quality -- as a means to creating teamwork.  Theorists have charged that the devolution of authority makes workers work harder than ever, that it disrupts traditional worker/employer identities in ways that privelege employers and disadvantage workers, and Smith does find evidence of that.  Yet at the same time, she notes that workers, under the gun of the global economy, choose the quality program as the best option in that it demonstrates their desire to keep the factory productive so that they can maintain the lifestyles and their local economy.  Many workers to whom she spoke claimed to have learned much about business from the training programs, and some thought they could use this training if (or when) the plant finally shut down.  While middle-class managers found the quality program an affront to their business acumen -- just another program cooked up by some distant consultant that didn't understand their business -- the plant workers, with some notable exceptions,were willing to try and some found the knowledge they gained useful.<br />The third case study &quot;Computech&quot; looks at a high tech firm with &quot;MicroSerf&quot; temporary/permananent employment practices.  The fourth, and the most dispiriting of the 4 organizations examined, is a special job search service for out of work executives based in Sacramento.  It is the most dispiriting because the executives -- for instance a nuclear engineer, an environmental consultant -- are told they must become non-specialist multi-taskers, remodeling themselves in lieu of the latest buzzwords of the employment market.  Smith points out that this rhetoric is a roundabout way of telling the mostly 40 years plus people who frequent this organization that they need to lower their sites and to get used to lower wages and less job stability.  She also notes that most of them do not find the jobs at the salaries with the benefits they want.  There is no upside for these workers, it's almost all downhill.<br />Smith does a good job of putting a human face on the Brave New World of Work.  She demonstrates today's workers are more resourceful, and their reactions to their new work situations more complex than are presumed by theorists.  Not exactly earth-shattering -- people are always more complex than theorists would have it, but a nice corrective to the high-flown rhetorics and partisanship usually encountered in such discussions.  In short, Smith shows us examples of the willingness of business and government to renege on the &quot;worker-citizen&quot; model(the post-war Keynesian model) and substitute to &quot;worker-capitalist&quot; (the post-modernist conservative, Friedman model).  She treats the devolution of risk downward, examines the American &quot;jobs miracle&quot; (where lots and lots of low-paying service jobs are created for those who can stay out of the vast penal colony) through the real work lives of real American workers.	2001-07-06
US	50506686	R2079DNALCM7MZ	0805052089	854975809	The Price of Citizenship: Redefining the American Welfare State	Books	5	22	29	N	N	Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!	With &quot;The Price of Citizenship,&quot; Katz performs a much needed demystification of the ways in which the social welfare state and the poor have been attacked and continue to be attacked by social and fiscal conservatives under the guise of consumer choice and the chimerical promise of the marketplace as the best of all possible ways to administer &quot;welfare.&quot;  A work of breathtaking scope, Katz examines each of the programs of the welfare state -- Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Unemployment Insurance, AFDC (&quot;welfare&quot;), Public Eduation, etc. -- gives a brief history of the inception of each, and then gives a recent history of how each program has come under attack by the forces of business and and their shortsighted friends in government.<br />Here's how they do it, according to Katz: Using the same master narratives of sorting citizens into deserving and undeserving categories to begin the assault, then tightening the screws on the &quot;undeserving,&quot; the conservative business forces follow up with the panacea of the marketplace as the be-all and end-all solution: get those lazy minority mothers off the dole and into jobs; close down the loopholes in unemployment so that no one will qualify; drive people slowly toward the assumption of more and more risk by scaring them with junk statistics on the imminent demise of Social Security and then offering them the &quot;solution&quot; of mutual funds -- etc., etc., etc.  The strategy is always the same: the market will knit up the ravell'd sleeve of care, when in fact it really serves to unravel the social safety net for those who need it most, and, weaves new money-making nets for others in the name of &quot;efficiency&quot; and &quot;choice.&quot;  These special stronger nets are the new welfare schemes for corporations and the upper and upper middle class.        <br />One of the finest chapters deals with underhanded manipulation by conservatives of the public with regard to viability of Social Security. Katz convincingly shows that Social Security is not in any danger of going bankrupt -- period.  He shows how the forces arrayed against Social Security, through misinformation, through the politics of playing younger workers against older workers, has managed to convince most Americans that they will either not recieve their benefits or recieved reduced benefits.  Indeed, until I read this chapter, I was one sheep among the many.  He then goes on to show how the various &quot;choice&quot; schemes proposed to &quot;fix&quot; Social Security through investment in the stockmarket -- either individually or collectively -- would serve to make financial companies billions and billions of dollars.  In every chapter, Katz follows the money, and, sadly it usually leads to the ultra-right think tanks whose clients most stand to profit from the privatization of government social welfare programs.  <br />It may sound by this review that &quot;The Price of Citizenship&quot; is a muckraking screed.  Or that it was written by a conspiracy nut.  It is neither.  Instead it is a deeply researched work that convinces through facts as well as through narrative that the forces of the marketplace through the instrument of the ideology of the market as espoused by the right wing have been successful in undermining the foundations of U.S. social welfare programs (which frankly weren't much to begin with).  Katz never uses invective -- the strongest word he uses is &quot;underhanded&quot; in his description of the scuttling of Clinton's health plan by business and medical interests -- instead he marshalls facts, questions assumptions, and draw important parallels and connections between the assaults on all of these programs. After reading this book, you'll be more than prepared to do some debunking of the conventional wisdom about Social Security, &quot;Workfare&quot; programs, HMOs, etc.  May I dare say Katz has done us all, and even his country, a noble service by putting the lie to the master lie of the marketplace as the best solution for what ails us.  Voucher this, baby!	2001-05-23
US	50506686	R36YVEOEU4SQF9	0393048438	630738840	Moral Freedom: The Search for Virtue in a World of Choice	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Grave New World?	You've got to hand it to Alan Wolfe.  Building on &quot;Whose Keeper&quot; and &quot;One Nation After All,&quot; Wolfe's latest book &quot;Moral Freedom&quot; is a tour de force which examines Americans' views of morality in the age of expressive individualism and rampant consumerism.  Using a methodology similar to the one he employed in &quot;One Nation After All,&quot; Wolfe interviews a random selection of 200 Americans in 6 geogrphical locations ranging from the Castro district in San Francisco to a small midwestern town in Iowa.  <br />Coupling these interviews with a nationally representative telephone survey conducted with CBS, Wolfe gets down to cases fast.  Asking eternal moral questions, e.g. what is virtue, what is vice?, Wolfe comes to a startling conclusion: Americans have for the most part jettisoned traditional teachings of religion in favor of a looser, more pragmatic situational ethics.  Although some of Wolfe's respondents hew to very specific religious beliefs, even these individuals are loathe to cast the first stone against those who might not agree with their beliefs.  <br />In terms of narrative strategy, Wolfe uses the gay and lesbian population of the Castro district as one end of the moral spectrum, the small town folks in Iowa as the other pole, and finds they have a lot in common with all the other folks in between.  He does stop and point out differences along the way, of course, but in the main, finds considerable agreement. The extended quotes from Americans to whom Wolfe and his colleagues talk demonstrates how smart and thoughtful the average American really is -- as Wolfe showed us in &quot;One National After All.&quot;  But there is something troubling about their articulateness, too.  Some of it sounds like &quot;Oprah-speak&quot; -- there's lots of forgiveness, lots of psychologizing mixed in with the strains of good 'ol American pragmatism.  <br />His main thesis is that we have now arrived in a brave new world of &quot;moral freedom&quot; but have not descended into moral anarchy, a fear espoused by moral philosophers from the Greeks onward is a tad overdone.  (His short survey of moral philosophers' views on the question is illuminating -- but for his real thinking on these questions look at &quot;Whose Keeper&quot;).  It may be that Wolfe is given to seeing the new era of &quot;moral freedom&quot; because of a kind of teleological necessity induced by his earlier works.  I mostly buy it -- it makes a good story -- but I'm a little skeptical that the diverse voices he captures here really add up to proving his thesis.<br />Still, thought-provoking, insightful, using empirical social science in conjunction with his theoretical speculations, with &quot;Moral Freedom&quot; Wolfe has pushed his exploration of morality into a new and invigorating space.	2001-05-22
US	50506686	R3TX1JSUPPS0PZ	1565846559	313953484	The Invisible Heart: Economics and Family Values	Books	5	45	54	N	N	You Gotta Have Heart	Anyone economist whom the Wall Street Journal takes a swipe at is doing something right in my book.  I don't recall the exact quote but the Journal says something like Folbre is a &quot;feminist economist who studies family economics (socialism).&quot;  Folbre wonders aloud if the Journal believes families are necessarily socialist.  Judging from their characterization of Folbre's work, and their endorsement of strict neoclassical econonmic theory in their editorial section, it appears that the Journal and other business and economic theorists of their ilk would prefer to simply call families names than deal with their true economic and moral value in the realm of capitalism.<br />Folbre's thesis is that capitalism has been enjoying a &quot;free ride&quot; on families and communitites from very early on.  She further argues that capitalism is changing the ways people and families concieve of themselves.  Using memorable examples, she makes a convincing case for the inclusion of traditional women's work such as child rearing in such measures as the GDP.  After all, don't corporations need smart well-trained workers?  And don't smart well-trained workers grow up inside families who nuture, care, and educate them?  Further, don't families and workers mostly pay for their training?    <br />Most economists are uncomfortable thinking about how the social and moral structure of society underpins capitalism.  This is because they can't find ways to measure this &quot;natural resource.&quot;  Conservatives know that capitalism encourages radical individualism -- that's why they are always trying to impose &quot;traditional values&quot; on workers.  Conservatives know that capitalism depletes people's sense of obligation and responsibility -- that's why they talk about it so much.  What they don't talk about is that the encouragement of economic self-interest plays havoc with social reciprocity and moral standards.  As Folbre points out, business contracts are almost meaningless in and of themselves.  They are based on mutually accepted customs of reciprocity and obligation that have developed over the course of Western history.  They are a simply a more elaborate version of the handshake.<br />Witty, pithy, and astute, Folbre's &quot;Invisible Heart&quot; is the perfect antidote to inane blatherings of the Chicago School knuckleheads and their mealy-mouthed descendants.	2001-05-22
US	50506686	R1BX8QD76DFX0W	0674004264	516008985	The End of Ideology: On the Exhaustion of Political Ideas in the Fifties, with "The Resumption of History in the New Century"	Books	4	19	20	N	N	The Beginning of History	Three selections from the End of Ideology are worth the price of the book.  First, the essay Bell wrote for this latest edition in which he makes a strong case that with the end of ideology, &quot;history&quot; has begun anew.  Next, the new introduction he wrote in the mid-70s which discusses the critical reception of this book.  Finally, the last chapter of the original book, a masterful history of Marxist thought.  <br />In essay on the resumption of history, Bell clears away much of the underbrush that has grown up around the notion of &quot;global capitalism&quot; by pointing out that the end of empire (and that includes the Soviet Union) and the colonial era has had the largest impact on world politics over the past forty years.  The reignition of various ethnic groups whose identities had been suppressed under various Uber states and ideologies is just as important a part of the story.  The 1975 introduction is a fascinating refutation of his, mostly Marxist, critics. For instance, C. Wright Mills, the maverick sociologist, apparently came after Bell for his review of Mills' &quot;The Power Elite&quot; (included in &quot;The End of Idelogy&quot;).  Bell neatly dissects Mills' both in the essay and in his answer to Mills' criticisms.  Bell, the empiricist, is the clear winner in these two rounds.  The last chapter on Marxism is worth re-reading and re-reading for Bell knows the subject and the players intimately, as only a former boy Socialist born in New York's Lower East Side could.  He explains how Marx's transmutation of Hegel's ideas into &quot;dialectical materialism&quot; set the stage for generations of leftist intellectuals to misinterpret or  reinterpret events into Marxist prattle according to their understanding or lack of understanding thereof.  It's a post-graduation education on Marxism in 35 dense, but, brilliant pages. <br />Two juicy chapters on the American &quot;mafia&quot; and the inflation of crime statistics and the stoking of public fear by law enforcement, although somewhat dated contain some remarkable insights: among them that the &quot;mafia,&quot; like American business in general had to move from &quot;production&quot; to the &quot;consumption&quot; mode, i.e., turning toward the consumer to make money through gambling, and away from more traditional, less lucrative businesses such as prostitution.  These two articles, written when he covered the labor beat for Fortune magazine, still have an edge now, as the same &quot;crime wave&quot; and &quot;mafia&quot; hysteria continue to be generated by the media and law enforcement.<br />Bell's wide-ranging knowledge, his clear-eyed appraisal of the American scene, his tenacity in trying to discover the real levers of power, are qualities one rarely finds in this era where shouting and sloganeering still suffice -- although much of this now comes not from the left-hand side of the spectrum, but the right.	2001-04-20
US	50506686	R2SA7MR1V5R6AJ	0300088655	401549206	The Lonely Crowd, Revised edition: A Study of the Changing American Character	Books	4	77	86	N	N	How We Got Here	A classic of American sociology, Riesman's book still rings true to a great extent in its preternatural sense of the (then) coming break between the modern and post-modern era.  These days Reisman's characterological framework of social personality types -- tradition oriented, inner-directed, other-directed -- seems too pat, too simplistic, too culturally bound.  Nevertheless, whether one believes in it or not, the framework  remains so compelling that the reader begins to group all one's friends and acquaintances in one or another of the categories.  It's the power of imaginative writing that holds our attention in spite of the too neat framework, proving once again that fiction is always more compelling than sociology.  Crisp and evocative metaphors work every time!   Two memorable metaphors --  the inner-directed person has a &quot;gryoscope&quot; implanted in him by his parents and his society, while the later other-directed personality is equipped with radar to seek out social cues, are deservedly famous. So are his distinctions between the way these different cultures control their members through negative self-assesment:  tradition-oriented = shame; inner-directed = guilt; other-directed = anxiety.  <br />To his credit, Riesman bends over backwards to say that people can belong to all categories at once through various manifestations of their characters.  Nevertheless, the categories are so simple, and feel so descriptively true, that the tendency to believe in the categories and Riesman's historical sketch of how each comes about almost our overwhelms skepticism.  Almost.  But as Todd Gitlin points out in the foreward, Riesman's  theories are tied to a population theory (other-directed  societies could supposedly be distinguished by their lower birth rates in combination with economic prosperity) that was almost immediately overturned by the baby boom in the years immediately following the publication of the book.  Riesman himself in the reprint of his introduction from a previous edition points out the flaw in the population projection, recanting this part of his theory.  And although the flaw is minor in the sense of the meat of the book -- psychologizing various populations at certain stages in their economic development, it does began after awhile to discredit even the psychologizing.  For so tightly does he link the other-directed to a phenomenon which is almost immediately proved wrong, that it calls into question everything else he contends.  Remember the book &quot;The Population Bomb&quot; which predicted in the 60s that world would soon be overrun with humanity?  It didn't take into consideration famine, disease, war -- the usual plagues of humanity.  There is nothing so humbling as building a theory on bad demographic predictions.  <br />Whether or not the theories about social character are true, they were extraordinarily influential at the time, shaping  ideas about the American character and American society that persist fifty years later.  There are parts of this book -- most of it in fact -- that feels vital and true to this day. The question is, however, is this because the ideas contained herein have become so dissolved into the cultural discourse that they have become true in the retelling, or are they literally true for their time and so remain?        <br />That's part of the fun of reading this old chestnut -- deciding for yourself!	2001-04-13
US	50506686	R3QRNV6QP3LV4L	0807079529	915384259	The Stranger Next Door: The Story of a Small Community's Battle over Sex, Faith, and Civil Rights	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Trouble in Timbertown	A social history of the political repercussions of an anti-gay coalition formed in a small town in Oregon in the mid 1990s to alter the town charter to prevent &quot;special rights&quot; from being granted to gay/lesbian citizens, &quot;The Stranger Next Door,&quot; does a brilliant job of distilling the national discourse on gay and lesbian rights through a description of the pitched battle between conservatives and liberals for the hearts and minds of the citizens of &quot;Timbertown.&quot;   An often harrowing tale of the manipulation of a small town which has fallen on hard times by a conservative organizer, Ms. Klein's admirably balanced re-telling of the events leading up to the vote on the anti-gay referendum, bristles with memorable people caught in a web of intolerance.  <br />Short, concise, compelling, Ms. Klein introduces us to Christian evangelical ministers and their flocks vs. mainline liberal Presbyterians, rednecks vs. yuppies, business owners vs. unemployed mill hands, long-time residents vs. recent arrivals from California, and takes us through an increasingly bitter political fight that eventually polarizes the town into two bitter factions, and sets neighbor against neighbor in a fight where sexual orientation, once private becomes public.  Along the way she discusses the stratgies undertaken by the opposing camps, such as the too-easy invocation of the Holocaust and Nazism as analogous to the situation in Timbertown by the liberal elite, and on the other side, the invocation of the Bible by born-again Christians as the ultimate authority on sexual behavior.  There is also a particularly trenchant chapter which clearly illustrates the tendency of the media to respond only the most divisive stories and events, and thus fan the fires of hatred higher. <br />Also worth the price of admission is a precise discussion of the various &quot;creation tales&quot; of homosexuality.  For instance, there is  the &quot;essentialist&quot; view of many liberalsand parents of gays/lesbians, a view that insists that sexual orientation is purely genetic, a response that was perhaps partly developed to counter the conservative Christians' insistence that homomsexuality is a choice, and therefore a sin. She notes the essentialist view gets parents of homosexual children off the hook, and also, for liberals &quot;normalizes&quot; homosexuals as a natural category, thus making them worthy of political voice.   Klein believes this view is a disservice to the truth and the multifarious ways in which sexual orientation may come about.  For instance, she tells a lovely vignette of two women, both married with 6 children between them, who, without ever thinking through the &quot;political&quot; aspects of their attraction, leave their husbands and set up housekeeping in Timbertown.  The peculiar and ironic tragedy of this couple is that until the trouble in Timbertown started, no one thought of them as lesbians, and neither had they ever gone out of their way to make it known.  <br />A profoundly sad book in the end. The intransigence on both sides speaks to the declining possibilities for Americans to speak across class, race and sexual orientation, but, at the same this cleared-eyed report encourages us to believe that even if we can't talk across these battle lines, at least there are sociologists like Ms. Klein who can honestly describe the motivations on each side of the divide, and,perhaps in so doing help generate a bridge across the chasm.  As a perfect companion to this book, read &quot;Suburban Warriors&quot; by Lisa McGirr, a history of the rise of the conservative right in Orange County, CA.	2001-04-06
US	50506686	R21H9L672K01OJ	0060194138	650056448	The Modern Mind: An Intellectual History of the 20th Century	Books	5	137	141	N	N	Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Everything	At 800 pages the heft of the book makes you quite aware that you should think of it as a reference book.  But then, you open it up and start reading, and suddenly, you're hooked.  You're hooked because Mr. Watson is telling you the great, scary, tragic story of the 20th century, moving from the nearly unbridled optimism at the beginning of the century through the despair and disenchantment and dark days of WWI, Stalinism, WWII, into Vietnam and the rejection of liberalism and modernism in the last decades of the 20th Century, and he's telling it in an inherently fascinating way: through the leading lights in the arts, sciences and humanities -- a kind of meta-biography. Because he moves chronologically, you begin to anticipate the next raft of intellectuals, the next slew of scientific achievements.  Then, later, you get the next iteration of certain theories and ideas in the hands of greater and lesser minds.  Or, you start to fear how certain misguided ideas -- eugenics and defective Darwinism, for instance -- will be transmogrified into the rationale for evil.  What's most valuable is that Mr. Watson also puts various schools of thought -- the Vienna Circle, the Frankfurt School for instance -- into their proper relation in terms of intellectual history. Mr. Watson's grasp of what's important and what's not, of whom to speak at length and of whom simply to mention, is for the most part nearly faultless.  But that is another of the lures of the book -- seeing if you agree with his characterizations and the amount of space he dedicates to each one! For those who crave the long view, who weren't alive in Vienna in the 1900s, or Paris in the 1910s, New York in the 20s, Berlin in the 30s, Paris after WWII, New York in the 50s, who have tried to grasp the overlapping histories of the fine arts, music, literature and science in some kind of systematic way, this book is the answer.      An awesome achievment!	2001-03-23
US	50506686	RQHYXHS4HGYVA	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	4	9	12	N	N	The End of the Grand March	Kundera frames this novel with two basic ideas: Nietzche's idea of the &quot;eternal return,&quot; and Parmenides notion that the world and everything in it can be classified as either positive or negative.  The first, the notion of the eternal return, is, as Kundera points out, a mystical notion that allows us to think about events in such a way as to try to grasp the emphemerality of human existence.  In short, the eternal return suggests that if all events were repeated endlessly, our response to those events would slowly change as we became more familiar with the parameters of those events.  The eternal return would grant us a platform from which we could compare each new return to our previous response.  Because we cannot, because our trajectory is always forward through time, life is unbearably &quot;light.&quot;  By introducing this conception at the beginning of his novel, Kundera is invoking the modernist tragic-comic turn to all the events that follow.  Parmenides notion of classification into positive and negative is a related device that allows Kundera to interrogate events using this bipolar framework.  Anyway, as a narrative conceit, this approach fixes the narratives of the main characters in a kind of timeless time, which allows Kundera to stand on the sidelines and comment upon his characters progress, to foreshadow coming events, to meditate on whatever he cares to meditate upon.<br />Ulimately it is these meditations -- pungent, mysterious, tragi-comic -- that I found most arresting.  His metaphor of the Grand March of the left -- the accepted notion of all progressives that humanity is heading toward a better world and that everything that stands in the way of the great communitarian dream are only a minor impediments to the fulfillment of a predetermined Utopian future -- is dead on, and dead on funny.  Another meditation on &quot;kitsch&quot; -- which he defines as the absence of &quot;merde&quot; or the innate human trope toward sweeping the disagreeable under the carpet and signing on to those ideas, movements, and programs which are more hygenic or more spiritual agreement with those in power. Essentially, he equates all ideological beliefs and practices with kitsch or what others call the Dreamworld.  There is another little meditations on the four kinds of eyes that humanity wishes to have trained upon them, depending on their predilictions: the eyes of a vast public (celebrities), the eyes of a select or elite cultural group, the eyes of the lover, or the eyes of someone to we have assigned power.  These last two conceits are  very reminiscent of Foucault's insights into the spectacles and surveillances that we create for one another's mutual stimulas and excitement.<br />Kundera's character's, suspended from the intellectual notion of the eternal return, and the notion that everything can be divided into positive and negative categories, tends to get schematized.  Their interactions feel like the interaction of ideas rather than people.  But, because of his philosophical narrative strategy, he's able to have it both ways in a sense.  Here's what I mean: each character illustrates that they are trapped by their own notions of kitsch, and are forever seeking the approval or excitements of one set of eyes or another.  Kundera therefore suggests that we are made up of the most ephemeral thing of all -- ideas -- but that we are also bound to earth by the base biological functions and desires.  These are not new or revolutionary ideas, by any stretch.  But Kundera's expert and unsentimental probing of his characters' motivations and behaviors is quite sufficient to keep us going regardless.<br />Interestingly, using the modernist strategy of locating the reader in the mind of various protagonists to generate different perceptual verions of the events, illustrates a deficiency in all readers.  As we read the version of events from another perspective the new character takes center stage, throwing the other character's previous version of events into shadow.  This tendency to identify with the character blots out, at least temporarily, our belief and acceptance of other versions of the events.  Drawn in to each consciousness in turn, we are seduced and under the spell of each character in their turn.    <br />So even as he provides for us a version of the eternal return, we have difficulty utilizing this powerful notion of comparison to understand the ultimate significance of events.  But hey, this is Prague, and Kafka's presence is everywhere felt in this book!	2001-03-16
US	50506686	RI3I08P2V2BU5	0691059039	590581149	Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American Right.	Books	5	38	45	N	N	From Red-Baiting to Reganomics	A marvelous cultural history of conservative political and religious activism in Orange County, CA circa 1960 to 1980, Suburban Warriors evocatively renders the rise of New Right and the SunBelt, and argues persuasively that Orange County, CA was at the epicenter of the conservative revolution of the late 20th Century.  Combining interviews with activists with larger demographic analsyses of the immigrants who came to populate the area during the post-WWII economic boom, along with an economic history of the growth of the area, McGirr deftly points a portrait of a time and a place and a people who were uniquely ready to create a new post-modern, politically conservative future.  But it is her description of how it was done that makes for the most compelling reading.  <br />McGirr is particularly good at pointing out certain ironies that undercut the Conservative agenda.  For instance, she notes that Orange Country was and is anti-tax (anti-egalitarian, anti-collectivist, anti-communist, anti-Federal government interference, anti-fair housing), but that the boom it enjoyed in the 60s was fueled primarily by federal defense spending.  The Rugged Individualist, Boot-Stapping Entreprenuerial Businessman was in many ways beholden for his economic success on government expenditures.  More recently, Orange County, following it's own free-market, low/anti-tax philosophy went backrupt due to investments in esoteric stock market products, investments the County felt forced to make because of budget shortfalls.<br />She also notes that the conservative philosophy spawned during that era partook of two incompatible philosophies: social conservatism (the moralizing, anti-sex education in schools, anti-abortion beliefs) and libertarianism (the Ayn Rand inspired Objectivist movement was particularly strong in Orange County).  She notes that these philosophies share many of the same values, but that they have different endpoints.  She also notes that while social conservatives battled government or &quot;secular humanists&quot; interference in their lives, they also attempted to get the McGuffey's Reader into their local classroom (textbooks from the 1920s which had lessons about God and morality).  In addition, she notes that the conservative position on property rights -- the property owners' rights are absolute (which justifies race discrimination in the renting or selling of property)-- fails to recognize the &quot;natural rights&quot; assigned to citizens by the US Constitution: equality under the law.   <br />These examples may make it sound as if McGirr is a liberal. I apologize if that is the case.  She may well be, but if she is, it is difficult to discern it.  Indeed, McGirr does us all a great favor by demonstrating it is possible to write about the often deep divisions in US politics fairly, with respect and insight.  Balanced, deftly told, deeply researched, SUBURBAN WARRIORS may cause liberals to reexamine some of their deeply-held prejudices against this movement, it goals and its philosophy.  The Left is just as guilty of demonizing its enemies as the Right.  McGirr does such a splendid job of maintaining distance and objectivity that even a &quot;liberal&quot; can better understand the beginnings of a movement that was often dismmissed in its early days as nostalgic at best, and at worst, pathological.<br />(A confession: I grew up in a liberal suburb adjacent to Orange County and so part of my enthusiasm for this book is related to my nostalgia for that time.  We were liberal Easterners from New York, who came to California to eventually take advantage of the post-war boom and eventually, the terrific, free, state-sponsored college education system -- which came to an end under Reagan before we could do so.  I don't blame Reagan, by the way, we had moved to New York State by then where the old liberal promises were still, at least to a degree, in place.	2001-03-12
US	50506686	R3S9XHVBP2SALE	0674002865	599383749	From the Puritans to the Projects: Public Housing and Public Neighbors	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Double-Binds, Double Trouble	Vale's marvelously detailed history of public housing in Boston from the early Puritan settlements to the present day tells the story of our &quot;alternating current of compassion and hostility&quot; toward the poor in the U.S.  Through his exploration of public housing in Boston, Vale writes a compelling sociological history of the tensions inherent in the American dream of home ownership, government subsidy vs. free enterprise, and most valuable of all explores the ideology of homeownership and its bearing on citizenship.  Dense, meditative, often wryly humorous, this is a deeply researched work which yields uncommon insights about mythic American values of community as expressed through public housing and public spaces.<br />Particularly well-rendered is the recurring theme of how the government used its powers to dispense and dispose of land to reward certain Americans.  The U.S. soldier was the first, and continues to be, a singular actor in this drama of service and reward.   In the Jeffersonian post-revolutionary war period, veterans were rewarded with grants of land. In so doing, the government empowered these men to do the work of settling the frontier -- who better to perform such a task than those already trained in war?  Civil War veterans were similarly rewarded.  <br />From there, other &quot;deserving&quot; populations were rewarded with housing -- those who demonstrated their commitment to an American standard of behavior: industriousness, cleanliness, responsiblity being some of the key attributes for qualification for early public housing.    Vale describes, for instance, how public housing developments in the Depression and postwar era were also used by politicians to reward their supporters, especially deserving working-class poor families who fit a traditional dual parent, father/provider schematic.  <br />The early chapters exploring the city fathers erection and administration of jails, insane asylums, shelters for the poor, and the concomitant rise the settlement movement and the social worker are particularly well-rendered.  Great illustrations, too!	2001-03-09
US	50506686	R3OB6WNJW4S3XU	0674002628	960023604	Man and Wife in America: A History	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Way They Were	With numerous deftly chosen stories of husbands and wives and their contact and experience of the law from the Colonial Era to the present, Hartog describes the slow development of our modern conception of individual rights.  This is for the most part the story of wives' evolution from the state of coverture (where the husband was sovereign) to that of an equal partnership of two individuals.  Along the way, Hartog develops some striking insights such as his conception of frontier states competing in a &quot;divorce market&quot; for divorcing couples in order to draw potential settlers to their states.  Other states, such as California, wrote liberal laws that promised equal treatment for wives as a way to entice women settlers to there -- a kind of rights marketplace.  His great achievment is to evoke over the course of U.S. history, the changing expectations and the responsibilities of husbands and wives as to what constitutes a proper marriage.  At the same time, he discusses societal ideals embedded in the law, and the pragmatic judges who refashioned those ideals to better reflect the evolving relationships of husbands and wives.  He shows that the institution of marriage, ostensibly the most intimate and private and natural of all personal relationships, has close and obtrusive links to conceptions of public governance and individual rights. Too, he show that the two &quot;institutions,&quot; which seem so different from one another -- marriage, (private and personal), as compared to the state (public and bureaucratic) -- modify and reinforce each other through the agency of the judiciary.  Thoughtful, illuminating, substantial, this is a long pleasant walk through the past with a very engaging, studious and knowledgeable, but never pedantic, friend.	2001-02-23
US	50506686	R5WJ8SSXHAQNB	0674002199	745822723	Sovereign Virtue: The Theory and Practice of Equality	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Impossibly Interesting	If you're willing to expend the energy on Dworkin's dense, abstract prose in the first section, you'll be rewarded in the second section wherein he applies his abstractions to tough issues like national healthcare, and genetic manipulation.  Dworkin sometimes sounds like an insurance analyst -- he tends to think in terms of spreading risk across populations.  He also likes to build models to help conceptualize the distribution of risk and reward in society.  These models, fully understood, provide a means of gauging all kinds of propositions: propositions about genetic experimentation, economic inequality, healthcare, to name just a few that he covers in the second section.  The problem is that it takes a long time for Dworkin to set up these models that one begins to lose sight of just why such a conceptual tool might be worthwhile (for instance, a desert island where everyone arrives on an equal footing and the auction that ensues to distribute resources equally according to preference.)  At the same time, there is something heartening about Dworkin's insistence that rationality can prevail, that reasonable people can agree on certain basic assumptions about the importance of public goods and ways in which these goods might be attained.  One wants to believe that this is the case, in spite of considerable evidence to the contrary, especially in our current political discourse, so polarized as not to admit any room for the intrusion of reason.  A noble try, really.  Overall, a tough book, but a rewarding one.	2001-02-23
US	50506686	R2RCU9CMZYKUJJ	0300083343	398286133	Yankee Doodle Dandy: The Life and Times of Tod Sloan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Real Winner, A True Thoroughbred	A marvelous miniature, Yankee Doodle Dandy tells what at first blush is the story of Tod Sloan, an American jockey, who revolutionized horse racing by changing the way a jockey sat on the horse.  (Prior to Sloan, riders sat comfortably on the horses back, ramrod straight.  Sloan leaned forward over the horses withers, leaned over the horses neck.)  His innovation initially met with jeers and scoffing from the traditional race crowd, but within less than 5 years, nearly every jockey had adopted the technique.  There was no arguing with Sloan's success.  Winning two, three, four and even five races at tracks featuring an average of seven races daily, Sloan's new technique, coupled with his remarkable sense of pace and often brilliant strategies, was unstoppable.<br />By following Tod Sloan's career we are given a vivid tour of the U.S. and England in the latter 19th century, from the life of the lowliest stableboy, to glimpses of the English royalty.    We also witness the last gasp of British &quot;imperialism&quot; in its Jockey Club barring Sloan from ever applying for his license again.  His infraction, suspected gambling, had never been cause for such a stringent punishment before.  But, as Dizikes points out, there had never been anyone quite like Sloan before either.  A brash American sportsman, spendthrift, ladies man, vaudevillian (briefly), he was the first sports superstar.   <br />A short, masterful evocation of a uniquely American life, Yankee Doodle Dandy is a great ride!	2001-02-16
US	50506686	R2USGB5GQHFUNV	1890318124	682901316	Confessions of an Original Sinner	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An Original Life	Lukacs gets to you slowly in this marvelous autobiography. It's partly the way he structures his life, and partly his remarkable prose.  Structurally, he moves chronologically through his life, but also moves thematically at the same time, coming back around to the same preoccupations again and again but from different angles, foreshadowing what's to come, commenting on his earlier follies and triumphs.  And so, slowly, he gnaws away at your preconceptions about history, especially U.S. history.  Particularly entertaining are his witty criticisms of U.S. academia, his stinging assessments of Kissinger and Reagan from his perspective as a &quot;reactionary&quot; historian. Direct and simple, never-simplistic, he paints his experience as an exile coming to the U.S. after WWII truthfully, with wit, self-deprecation, and remarkable self-knowledge.  There are passages in this book which are remarkably moving.  His description of his first wife's illness and death, the slow dissolution of his connections to Hungary, the mother and family he left behind, are restrained, but all the more emotionally compelling because of that restraint.  An original thinker, Lukacs never accepts anything at face value.  After reading him, your view of 20th Century U.S. and world history will be changed.  You may even be tempted to adopt his &quot;reactionary&quot; values.	2001-02-16
US	50506686	R2OQEUGPQMNYVS	0735200521	360827717	Journey to the Emerald City: Achieve a Competitive Edge by Creating a Culture of Accountability	Books	2	25	32	N	N	It's to Laugh	Many business books are a form of utopian literature and should be treated as such.  Given this premise, one would think that a book with a title like &quot;Journey to the Emerald City&quot; would be a top-notch business book as it suggests the authors might have a certain awareness of this genre.   <br />Unfortunately, this in not the case here.  Instead, this is yet another entry in the &quot;book as selling tool&quot; sweepstakes.  In this sub-genre of the business book, the book is the foot-in-the-door for selling consulting services.  Little more than a powerpoint presentation fleshed out with the usual miscellaneous facts and figures, these books are short on everything but jargon.  They offer middle managers cozy, self-evident insights and simplistic advice that most company employees find insulting or at least insipid.  (Around our office, the charts in the first chapter that show &quot;non-aligned&quot; and &quot;aligned&quot; processes and goals are considered a fine example of this facile and fallacious sub-genre as they keenly demonstrate the obvious in the most obvious fashion possible.)  <br />Business books are not known for their sense of humor, certainly, because as we all know, business is extraordinarily serious.  Yet, lack of wit and self-awareness are not virtures either.   Nor is the plodding purposefulness with which the authors describe their &quot;innovative&quot; approach, although again, they are clearly in good company in this genre.      <br />A shame really, especially since clearly the publishers felt strongly enough about the book to spend some extra bucks on shiny green foil on the jacket.  Then again, perhaps the title is more apt than I take it to be.  Like in the Wizard of Oz, we find there is no wizard behind the flashy curtain and special effects, but rather the usual seller of snake oil.	2001-01-29
US	50506686	R8Z7CK7VO5W9C	0684868148	277349860	The Virtue of Prosperity : Finding Values In An Age Of Techno-Affluence	Books	3	3	9	N	N	The New Economy Once Over Lightly	D'Souza deserves credit for admitting the &quot;gales of creative destruction&quot; of capitalism are the greatest threat to the conservative agenda of home, family and community.  He also deserves credit for talking to some of the leading lights of the new economy and tweaking them for their lack of values. <br />But ultimately, the books suffers from his once-over-lightly treatments of Western philosophers and the methods he employs for dismissing those whose arguments are either too complex, or too destabilizing to his position.  For instance, he recognizes the strength of John Rawl's reasoning in &quot;A Theory of Justice,&quot; but then takes up a side issue related to economic luck and completely bypasses Rawls' real point.  He does this so frequently that it begins to seem that distraction and obfuscation form the true basis of his technique for critiqing left or left of center social or economic theories. <br />Mostly, it feels like a book designed for new economy nouveau riche who want to learn a little about the roots of Western Civilization so they can feel at least somewhat prepared at parties when more erudite members of the elite drop names other than Larry Ellison, Jerry Yang, or Mary Meeker.	2001-01-24
US	50506686	R3V9L84GCLFF6E	067450335X	269042681	Kids' Stuff: Toys and the Changing World of American Childhood	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Stuff About Kid's Stuff	This is a book about toys that nicely balances an historical analysis of mass-manufactured toys and their appeals to children, with a look at current toys and their appeals.  Mr. Cross has a unerring eye for what toys say about past and current culture.  While he is critical of some of today's toys and the type of play they encourage, such as fantasy violence toys, he is not a public scourge suspecting toy companies of base motivations.  Instead, his opinions are considered and grounded in historical observation. Too, he seems to have a soft spot for Marx toys -- those cheap, antic, crazy, tin and plastic toys that spoke to a kid's sense of chaos and anarchy -- in other words, the toys that were the most fun of all!	2001-01-09
US	50506686	R1Q7H29ZZ6DUKQ	156584257X	814581769	3: Power: Essential Works of Foucault, 1954-1984 (New Press Essential)	Books	4	38	42	N	N	Not Just for Foucault Fanatics	This collection of Foucault's essays, lectures, interviews, and editorials, offers even the casual reader of Foucault welcome insights into his methods, his intellectual biography and the development of his own methods.  Most valuable perhaps are interviews collected from various magazines where he is challenged by his interviewers to respond to their criticisms and the criticisms of others.  In one, for instance, Foucault tries hard to correct those who read his works as a totalizing critique of capitalism, or the current penal system, or the mental institution. He insists that his works are only intended to be seen as the history of various specific institutions and that those critics and followers who are tempted to project his findings onto current practices distort his intent.  Whether or not you believe him, his defense of his method and his avowed intent are compelling.  In another, he also quickly and cogently characterizes his two main intellectual influences, Hegelism and phenomenology, explains why he rejected these particular philosophical trends, but how they nevertheless challenged him to arrive at his own agenda and the course of his studies.  Throughout Foucault is ruthlessly honest about his own failings -- for instance his lack of knowledge about the Frankfurt School, and thoughtful -- his appraisal of the problems that inhere in national healthcare programs, which he generally supports but with interesting qualifications.  The editorials, while they address issues that may seem remote or dated, demonstrate that he was actively engaged in the politics of his time, and show how he applies his analytical methods to current events.  Some selections will be of interest only to the Foucault fanatic or to his biographers, which is the reason for the four star, instead of the five-star, rating.   Highly recommended.	2001-01-09
US	50506686	R3DCH7DFHGI9W1	0465017479	483492985	The Cunning Of Unreason Making Sense Of Politics	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Not for the Uninitiated	Dunn is a Political Theorist at Cambridge who makes good in this book on the Theorist part of his academic title.  Informing us at the outset that he's writing a book for the general reader about how to think about politics, his prose style (which employs parentheses to a fault) nearly defeats both him and us.  Oracular, dense, he is prone to starting paragraphs that state there are such things as &quot;three factors one must explore when thinking of government as coercive structure based on the provision of security for it's citizens.&quot;  He writes sentences so long and so carefully balanced in tone that you forget what he's talking about before you get to the end of the sentence.  Not really for the general reader in other words.<br />And yet...once he gets away from discussing great political thinkers from the past (and how to think about what they thought, and how to decide what makes them applicable) and gets down to describing a case study -- how Margaret Thatcher got into power and stayed in power -- he's quite readable.<br />Here's a passage about Thatcher that shows both Mr. Dunn for good and ill:<br />&quot;In the case of the global neo-liberal agenda of the 80s and 90s (of which Reagan and Thatcher were prominent and consequential exponents), its public impact across large areas of the world, from some of the richest states to some of the poorest, depended both upon ideological impetus and upon drastic shifts in the international context in which the national economies operated.<br />&quot;There were close and obtrusive links between these two factors throughout, since the agencies of international economic coordination were often potent vectors of the the conceptions of sound policy, and the ways in which they operated, and the institutional changes which they brought about, themselves brusquely altered the incentives faced by governments and economic actors across the world.<br />&quot;Thge ideas themselves were in no important way novel(though their expression was naturally more up to the minute).  What had always been less than engaging about them, and what had long proved ineffectual, remained just as engaging, and very often every bit as ineffectual.  But ideological infection and institutional change, both carefully planned and essentially inadvertent, reinforced each other massively.  What was evidently going on was a single interconnected process, a vast tipping in the balance of advantage between one set of ways of organizing production, distribution and exchange, subordinated, at least in intention to the pursuit of social welfare through public policy, and another set of ways of organizing production, distribution and exhange which had far weaker connections with the goal of pursuing social welfare, more especially through public policy.&quot;  pg. 173-4<br />Not for the general reader, but nevertheless one appreciates his wide knowledge, flashes of insight and wit.gh their expression was naturally more up to the minute).  What had always been less than engaging about them, and what had long proved ineffectual, remained just as engaging, and very often every bit as ineffectual.  But ideological infection and institutional change, both carefully planned and essentially inadvertent, reinforced each other massively.  What was evidently going on was a single interconnected process, a vast tipping in the balance of advantage between one set of ways of organizing production, distribution and exchange, subordinated, at least in intention to the pursuit of social welfare through public policy, and another set of ways of organizing production, distribution and exhange which had far weaker connections with the goal of pursuing social welfare, more especially through public policy.&quot;  pg. 173-4<br />Not for the general reader, but nevertheless one appreciates his wide knowledge, flashes of insight and wit.	2000-10-31
US	50506686	RH3K8272X34FE	0674001559	768144399	What Price Fame?	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Real &quot;New Economy&quot;	With a simple conceit, the application of microeconomic theory to the culture of celebrity, Cowen generates fresh insight into the rising proliferation of stars and heroes in our world.  By erecting an economic platform from which look at the phenomenon, he is able to stand apart from the usual moralizing approach taken by cultural critics.  This is not to say he doesn't consider the views of both cultural optimists and pessimists in his discussion.  Indeed, he writes a history of cultural pessimists and optimists starting with the Greeks.  However,by giving us a new place to stand and a new perspective from which to examine fame and its pursuit, he performs a valuable service.   <br />Cowen's  view of 'fame markets' is in his own words 'largely optimistic,' a view based on the notion that 'markets increase the supply of star performances and the supply of fame with remarkable facility.' At the same time he is well aware that fame markets do not necessarily reward the virtuous. In his own words, he notes &quot;modern fame removes the luster from societal role models&quot; and &quot;intense media scrutiny  makes almost all individuals look less meritorious.&quot;  He points out that media seeks profits, promoting images that will attract viewers, not images that &quot;support the dignity of office.&quot; <br />What stands out in this 'economic' view of fame is Cowen's belief that the past efforts of highly visible reformers and moral and religious leaders have borne fruit to the extent that we as a society no longer need them as much as in the past.  It is his contention that moral leaders are more spread among us as compared to earlier times when such leaders occupied high stations in the fame pantheon.  This lower visibility of moral leaders, he believes, creates the incorrect perception of a society without moral leadership.    <br />A pithy and enjoyable book whose great strength and only failing is its narrowness of focus.  The celebrities we choose say something more about us than this relentlessly economic view would suggest.	2000-10-27
US	50506686	R1LF49CBXBBUUJ	0465032761	878165119	Improvised Europeans: American Literary Expatriates In London	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Assuming the Mantle of Modernism	Through the exploration of the lives and works of four profoundly influential American literary &quot;insurgents,&quot; Zwerdling tells the story of their transgenerational fight to clear a space for the recognition of the worthiness American literature among English and European elites.  <br />Engaging, thought-provoking and often surprisingly moving, we follow the expatriate careers of Henry Adams and Henry James in the mid to late 19th and early 20th century, followed by the modernist careers of Pound and Eliot in the early to middle 20th century. Zwerdling makes an extremely good case for cultural power's linkage to economic power by showing how Adam's and James cultivated reputations in both the U.S. and England, laying the groundwork for a idea of a shared Anglo-Saxon Literature just at the time when America was becoming recognized as having usurped England's role as the world's most vital economic and cultural power.  Pound and Eliot build on the foundations laid by Adams and James, fully confident that as Americans they will no longer be treated as second-class literary citizens.  They employ different strategies in their own &quot;siege of London&quot; but Eliot to a large degree succeeds in becoming the final arbiter of all literary disputes and grand critic of modernist literature.  As America takes center stage at the end of WWII, American's version of world modernist literature and culture, not surprisingly, come to predominate forming the core of the canon of Modern Literature as taught in the University.  <br />The literary insurgency takes it's toll on all four of our literary heroes, however. Adams comes to despise much of English culture and mores.  James does his best writing after a long-delayed trip back to America after nearly a lifetime abroad, writings that imaginatively explore what kind of man he might have become had he stayed in his native land. Pound wears out London literary society in a few short years and abandons the field.  Eliot adopts the manners of a high-toned Englishman to such an extent that he sets back the appreciation of other American writers thirty years (according to William Carlos Williams).  Nevertheless, he too, writes some of his best later work after a visit to America.  <br />In becoming expatriates they wander far afield of their original inspiration.  In becoming accepted, they lose some of the insurgent edge.  Of all of these James remains the most alive to the stirrings of new possibilities and the shifting relations of power between Americans and English elites.	2000-10-12
US	50506686	RRX8J898WL8ZW	0674002369	553999206	Inheriting the Revolution: The First Generation of Americans	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Buy this book!	Appleby's thesis is that the generation of Americans born in 1776 through 1800 inherited an as yet unformed society whose outlines were based on the revolutionary conception of governance, but that it was that this first generation of post-war Americans who had to actually form the &quot;more perfect union.&quot;  She shows how this task was taken up by all kinds of Americans through all kinds of means, including evangelicalism, new mass communications vehicles like newspapers, and the formation of political and social clubs and societies.    Empowered as they were by Jefferson's explosive policies, policies which eventually wrested the governance of the United States out of hands of the elitist, self-serving hands of the Federalists, the rising middle class cleared a space for themselves.  <br />Appleby assumes the reader knows the basic history of this period, an assumption which enables her to not only cover a lot of ground fairly quickly, but also to treat her material thematically.  This approach may leave some readers unhappy or confused,  but for those with a basic grounding in the era, the method can provide startling insights into a much-written about period of American history.  In addition, the reader is given by virture of this technique insight into the present era.  Appleby's one overriding insight is that once the civic religion of America was set into motion by this post-revolutionary first generation, and we Americans have been making only minor adjustments to this national imaginary and our place within it ever since.  <br />For fun, read as companion texts &quot;The Education of Henry Adams&quot; by Henry Adams and &quot;Improvised Europeans&quot; by Alex Zwerdling.  These &quot;un-common&quot; Americans contrast nicely with the rising middle class population described here.	2000-10-11
US	50506686	R1CWLB16YHQK9I	0345439430	225024305	The Playful World: How Technology Is Transforming Our Imagination	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Nuts &amp; Bolts View of Technological Transformation	Good account of today's interactive toys, where they come from, and where they're going in the near term.  It's always dangerous to predict how technology will modify our ontological horizons and Pesce, to his credit, doesn't push to hard on predictions, or engage in too much utopian dreaming. He resolutely focuses on explaining in layman's terms how advances in Artificial Intelligence are finding their way into toys.  He also looks at nanotechnology and considers its implications.  A self-admitted techie, he ventures into the predictive mode only where he has some empirical evidence to support his case. For instance he cites a study conducted by Sherry Turkle at MIT among kids who owned &quot;interactive&quot; pets like Furby which found that these kids did not classify these pets as either or alive or not alive but rather as some third category of object.   <br />There will be implications for our children deriving from this new category of object, Pesce states, but doesn't take it much further than that.  For instance, one might ask will this new category of object somehow work to erase the line between machine and humanity, to blur the boundary between our bodies and technology, a boundary already blurred by the objectification of the body in consumer culture?  Will the difficulties encountered in making and refining this third class of artificially intelligent object help us to form a more complete understanding of the capabilities and capacities of humanity?  Is that something we want to do?  Why?  Why are the dystopian implications of such technology always more compelling of our attention than the utopian implications? <br />These are questions that are really not within the stated scope of the book.  But, of course, these are the most interesting questions.	2000-10-09
US	50506686	R1GQK06VY9A5S7	0520053303	289956376	Marxism and Modernism: An Historical Study of Lukács, Brecht, Benjamin, and Adorno	Books	3	11	21	N	N	A Trip Across the Marxist Spectrum	A nice idea this.  Take two pairs of Marxists, starting with a committed Soviet apologist (Lukac), moving across the spectrum toward a much less doctrinaire reading of Marx by dramatist Brecht.  Then, compare and contrast the philosopher/mystic Benjamin who uses Marx as a way to think about the meaning of culture and technology, through to Adorno, the elitist who uses Marxism as a way to criticize consumerism as a manifestion of capitalist, and therefore, degraded, economic policies.<br />The discussion of Benjamin and Adorno is worth the price of admission here.  The elitist aesthete Adorno's initial captivation with Benjamin's early Arcade Project notes, his later disaffection with Benjamin's positive reception of some elements of mass culture is clearly told. <br />Still, the prose can be somewhat daunting and dense.  It takes some effort but the rewards are there for anyone interested in culture and politics in Germany between the wars.  Of course, the influence of these thinkers extends well beyond this period, especially Adorno and Benjamin who were rediscovered by Marxists in the 60s.  Benjamin, the more elliptical and mystical of the two,never fit neatly into the Marxist mold. Of the four, he remains the most interesting and least doctrinaire.	2000-10-06
US	50506686	R2NEZ03LU66RNB	1558492380	564153629	The Vietnam War and Postmodernity	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The End of the Modern Project	More and more it seems as if the 1970s were not the decade in which nothing happened, but rather was the decade that laid the base and superstructure for the postmodern world we currently inhabit.  The essays  in this book make a convincing series of arguments that the Vietnam War,  rarely mentioned in most accounts of the rise of the postmodern, is the  genesis or at least concomitant with rise of the postmodern era.  In many  ways it signaled the end of the modern project, the end of old-time  colonialism, the beginning of &quot;technowar&quot; which saw its greatest  expression in pyrotechnics of the Gulf War, the end of the American  people's belief in the modern project as expressed by its government  leaders.  It was in the 70s that the war actually ended, 1975, and in the  70s that the symbolic language and apologetics of the war proliferated.   Much of the book looks at the  postwar texts that became shorthand  descriptors for the Vietnam experience and show not only how reductive  these texts were, but also how they came to be manipulated during the  hypermasculine Reagan era, which sought to demonstrate that America was not  weak, not beaten, and certainly not demoralized by the Vietnam War.  <br />A  number of the essays take issue with Frederic Jameson's observation that  Vietnam was the &quot;first postmodern war.&quot;  This works pretty well  most of the time as a kind of &quot;Rashomon&quot; device where different  authors' interests and optics prismatize this statement.  I happen to agree  with the editor, Bibby, who suggests that seeing Vietnam as the &quot;first  postmodern war&quot; puts the cart before the horse.  That it not a war  which by its intrinsic nature was &quot;postmodern,&quot; but rather it was  out of this war that the postmodern experience was given context and  impetus.  After all it was during and after Vietnam that those damned (and  I mean that fondly) French intellecutuals began picking apart our modernist  assumptions...andreferring to rhizomes, which, as one essayist points out  are metaphorical dead ringers to the tunnel systems dug by the Vietcong...	2000-06-27
US	50506686	RX0QNSNJHF4TE	0847685039	166093637	Tales of the State	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fresh Told Tales	This collection of essays serves as a corrective to stories and rationales offered by government in justification for it's policies. I liked some of these articles so much that I entered them into my Palm Pilot.  Here's an  typical excerpt from an essay entitled &quot;The Myth of Small Business Job  Growth&quot; by Philip H. Sandro.<br />&quot;Celebration of small  entrepreneurs is a centuries-old tradition in the United States.  However,  in the early 1980s MIT researcher David Birch (1987) propelled the  celebration of small business to unparalleled heights when he concluded  that 88 percent of all net job creation between 1981 and 1985 was in firms  of twenty employees or less...After the publication of Birch's  &quot;findings&quot; numerous other researchers and popularizers elevated  Birch's research and its implications to the status of a full-blown  &quot;tale.&quot;  (George Gilder, Business Week, The Wall Street Journal,  the OECD)...Eager to be associated with job creation, legislators,  bureaucrats, and policy wonks rewrote numerous laws, regulations, and  programs in both Europe and the United States to favor the small business  sector.<br />&quot;Bennett Harrison...has mounted the most influential  challenge to the small business tale.  He has compiled a solid body of  evidence that demonstrates aht the employment share of the small business  sector as a percentage of the total has barely changed since the late  1950s.  First, Harrison finds flaws in Birch's methodology.  After much  criticism of his research, even Birch admitted in an interview in the WSJ  that his early numbers were 'silly.'<br />&quot;Questionable assumptions made  by Birch, Gilder and other proponents of the tale is that small businesses  are leaders in &quot;process innovation&quot; and 'new product innovation.'   The evidence suggests, however, that small businesses are technological  laggards on both accounts.... Separate studies have concluded that computer  programmable machinery is positively related to firm size, just the  opposite of the small business story.&quot;<br />&quot;The small business tale  undermines democracy in the name of democracy.  It does this by severing  voices that might resist corporate agendas from public economic discourse  by severing the state from a legitimate role in economic policy formation.   On the other hand, to critique the tale is to reinstate the state as a  &quot;contested terrain&quot; in economic policy diiscourse, to open up the  state as one arena where questions concerning the purpose of an economny  may be raised.  Reconnecting the state to economic policy formation or  &quot;deprivatizing&quot; economic policy debate allows heretofore  unthinkable questions to be posed.  For example, should we have democratic  control over the economy?  In what areas and to to what extent?  This is  not to say that the state will yield to demands that arise out of these  questions.  But the state can be used as a  strategic vehicle to legitimate  and strengthen groups heretofore defined by the small business tale as  enemies of job creation.<br />Other &quot;tales&quot; the book takes on are  the &quot;American Dream,&quot; &quot;The Contract With America,&quot;  &quot;The Necessity of CyberCensorhip.  All the articles deftly and  devastatingly question the stories of the state and its courtiers, present  incisive alternative views, and shake up the sedimented foundations of the  power elite.  Great stuff!	2000-06-09
US	50506686	R2WGL3YH355URH	0262032651	927343773	Suspensions of Perception: Attention, Spectacle, and Modern Culture (October Books)	Books	4	26	29	N	N	In the Eye of the Beholder	A remarkable book that takes the reader on a chronological excursion into the changing ideas of perception during a crucial period in history -- 1870 through the early 1900s.  Using three paintings to organize this tour de  force examination of prevailing modes of scientific, sociological and  psychological thinking of the time -- a Manet, a Seurat, a Cezanne -- he  makes convincing arguments as to the inspiration these various discourses  may have had on these artists.  The larger context he explores, the  evolution of the modernist, high-industrial conception of attention and  perception, as driven by new technologies and modes of social thinking, has  particular relevance today in light of the Internet.  Crary is clearly  writing for an academic audience here -- his prose style can often be  difficult, but there is much here for general reader with an interest in  media, perception, history, and in learning how we got to where we are now.	2000-05-23
US	50506686	R29YXBEZZX4LEW	0465041957	357546778	How We Got Here: The 1970s: The Decade That Brought You Modern Life (for Better Or Worse)	Books	1	12	29	N	N	The Hole Story	&quot;In the 70s, Dunkin Donuts started selling doughnut holes (or if not the actual holes, then a fascimile of same). In so doing, they answered a question that had been scratching away at American's national unconscious for years: what happens to the stuff in the middle and why?  This grand  marketing strategy had unintended consequences however, effects which could  only have occurred  in this 'slum of a decade.' For only in the 70s could  this 'line extension' (to borrow a phrase popular with marketers of that  era), have been imported into the political discourse.  Not surprisingly,  liberals  applauded the 'outing' of the holes; conservatives, rightly so,  were outraged that the topic came up for discussion.&quot;     Reality  check -- Dunkin Donuts *did* introduce donut holes in the 70s, but  everything else above is a fabrication -- the same strategy which Mr. Frum  employs throughout this book.  Here's how it works: pick a detail, any  detail from the 70s, classify it with scads and scads of other details, the  more extreme the better.  Best extreme details: lots of stuff about  gay sexual practices as indicative that they began their takover of  American culture way back then.  Now finesse these details into the  standard conservative schema (things were better back when people just did  as they were told,) then spin entertaining and completely specious  observations around the details either as a symptom or a cause of negative  social change.  Very important that you make sure you sprinkle on tons and  tons of details!  This will distract readers from noticing that gaping hole  in the center where real thought and insight should have been.	2000-04-07
US	50506686	R3UNM7SHF39XHS	0679454330	889335570	The Global Soul: Jet Lag, Shopping Malls, and the Search for Home	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Narrowness Is Its Own Reward	Okay, so he's not a deep thinker, but he's a fair to good writer.  At best, he succeeds in putting flesh on the bones of the strange new set of dislocations caused by the collision of old national and new corporate  empires. Nothing on implications, but he's a nice supplement to writers on  globalism who too drily concentrate only on large economic or social  considerations.  His perspective, biased, non-representative of any reality  but his own and his friends, has some charm, some pychological insight, and  some good recommendations on new novelists.	2000-03-13
