US	50523389	R2BDJHUP2PG993	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	3	5	8	N	Y	Stephenson doesn't solve problem of (too) huge trilogies	After Cryptonomicon, an amazingly great novel, I had very high expectations for Quicksilver.  But I don't take any author for granted, when he or she decides that we should invest in some 3000 pages of reading.   <br /> <br />A quarter of the way through Quicksilver, I was still very high on Stephenson.  I loved this first book in the volume, which is split into three distinct books.  I'm a scientist, and so have a keen interest in the origins of England's Royal Society, the first professional society for scientists, and also in Stephenson's fictional account of Isaac Newton's early life.  On these topics, Stephenson gives a tour-de-force, including some hilarious sections involving one of Newton's early nemeses, Robert Hooke.  The scientific discussions are amazingly detailed, but might tax the patience of the less scientifically inclined.  Even so, this first book is fairly tightly written, moving between the scientists, English politics, historical details of London and Cambridge, and jumps forward in time to a central fictional character, Daniel Waterhouse.  Stephenson has us finding Waterhouse in his old age starting up a new (and very small) MIT in his home, and leaps back and forth in the narrative from this older Waterhouse to his youth as Newton's first college roommate, and later as a secretary in the newly established Royal Society. <br /> <br />Stephenson doesn't show quite as much flare and use of allegory that made Cryptonomicon so fascinating, but this first book in Quicksilver is very promising. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Stephenson makes a complete separation with the 2nd book, and never returns to Waterhouse (young or old), Newton, the Royal Society, or English politics throughout the remainder of Quicksilver.  The 2nd and 3rd books (in Quicksilver) are located on the European Continent, and involve the politics and economic details of the Continent.  The two primary fictional characters, a soldier of fortune and a female he rescues from a Turkishharem I found to be unlikable and uninteresting.  After many, many meandering pages, we (re-) meet Gottfried Leibniz, who independently made significant progress with the new science/math of calculus (in later years--likely discussed in the later volumes--earning him the unending vitriol of Newton).  Unfortunately, Leibniz is a very minor character in these two books.  The narrative moves sluggishly through the Continent, and only toward the end of the 2nd book do real details of the economy and politics of Europe come to the fore.  It all just goes too slowly, with no real energy; it's all very long and tediously drawn out.  It seems that Stephenson simply lost his way with the narrative, and could not establish a tight focus.  I kept waiting for him to connect us back to England and Waterhouse, Newton, the Royal Society, the forwarded-in-time Waterhouse, anything....  This never happened.   <br /> <br />These separate storylines will surely converge somewhere in the 2nd, or more likely 3rd volume of this monster trilogy, but I am torn as to whether I will ever find out for myself.  The last half of Quicksilver is never fun, insightful, or rewarding. Unless you are a huge fan of Stephenson, I recommend staying away from the Baroque Cycle.	2005-09-21
US	50523389	R3D1ANZYVCDM63	0312852851	793924421	Manhattan Transfer	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Not worth your time	Manhattan Transfer is a poor mix of some reasonably good hard scifi ideas with nearly trivialized surroundings.  I often thought of the movie Armageddon (which I did not like) while reading this book.  Stith doesn't have the tear-jerking moments so prominent in Armageddon, but he certainly manages the Hollywood-style stereotyped characters, and the lack of depth with his science fiction.      Many of the problems with the book are obvious early on; after terrible happenings on the island of Manhattan, Stith describes many scenes where inhabitants look about them, and somehow see clearly what is happening on the city's horizons (and, no, the city is not leveled; all the buildings are still in place).  Can you imagine, in Manhattan, of all places?  The city's residents are amazingly controlled during this terror, another piece of simplification that just doesn't work.  The book is full of such trivializations.  Even when it looks as if it will go somewhere interesting, Stith always manages to reduce the story to something oversimplified and therefore dull and uninteresting.    Unless you like fast reads without much content (so why bother), for hugely better hard scifi, having some similarities to Manhattan Transfer (at least with the aliens), try Vernor Vinge's  \\"A Deepness in the Sky\\".  One of the other many better scifi writers to go to is Jack McDevitt.	2005-09-18
US	50523389	RAJR2MW1TTFQ0	0425079643	253156884	Satyrday	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A beautifully lyric fable	This is a wonderfully written fable, perfect for teens and adults alike.  Bauer has a lyric style that makes the book a joy to read.  Satyrday has a very interesting premise starting with the evil owl having his minions, the ravens, capture the moon.  Much of the story revolves about the satyr and a boy he has raised from infanthood journeying to save the moon, with the assistance of one raven and a magical white fox.  There are numerous other well-developed characters in this fable, and the story moves at a very good pace.  Good and evil, although well delineated, are not always obvious, a nice change from many fantasy stories.  Satyrday would make for great reading to younger children (there are some scary and sad parts, so read it 1st yourself), but expect to translate some of the beautiful language (e.g., the lugubrious raven); not so much, however, to be distracting to young teens that might read this on their own.  As an adult, I wished not for a longer book, but for continuing stories from Bauer.  It is very surprising, and sad, that this book is out of print, being so well written and entertaining, and having gained broadbased, and well-deserved praise in reviews (reprinted in the front of the edition I have).  Hopefully Satyrday will be reissued soon.	2005-09-17
US	50523389	R2DG1JQMAF73KL	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Amazing; a truly great book	Cryptonomicon is one of the very best books I have read.  The primary story is interesting enough in itself, following two generations of Waterhouses, the grandfather Lawrence contributing to the allies decryption efforts during WWII, and the grandson Randy working with modern day cryptography.   <br /> <br />Much of Lawrence's WWII story has been told before, but likely never quite so entertainingly, or with such a unique and quirkily  nerdy character in the lead.  Lawrence Waterhouse is a true scientist and academician at heart, a person completely consumed by his thirst for knowledge, and even more so by his drive to solve problems.  This story easily transitions between European locations during the earlier parts of the war, and then moves on to Australia, southeast Asia, the Philippines and Japan.  The brutalities the Japanese dealt to their enemies are hair-raising, but Stephenson keeps everything grounded and humane.  We get a feel for the differences in culture that may have lead some Nipponese to such brutalities, and can perhaps better understand (if not forgive) some of the war's worst moments. <br /> <br />Randy Waterhouse is a nerd, but lacks the overwhelming drive of his grandfather, perhaps a good general analogy for the two eras.  Even so, Randy's story is entertaining, existing mainly in southeast Asia.  We learn much that is fascinating about modern cryptography, its potential and possibilities.  Stephenson intertwines both stories with energy and focus. <br /> <br />The key to my elevating Crytonomicon to the very best of books, even so, are the huge number of amazing allegories and inventions Stephenson intersperses throughout the book.  There are many of these that would be worth reading the book all its own.  An early example is Stephenson's making an analogy of the Enigma machine to the spokes and chain on a bicycle. In a clear and entertaining manner, Stephenson shows how missing spokes on the main sprocket, combined with broken links on thebike's chain has direct analogy to the Enigma encryption method.  After six pages of this, I felt that I kind of understood what was going on with this complex subject; amazing. <br /> <br />Probably the funniest part of the book is an extended discussion of Lawrence Waterhouse's self-analysis of his sex drive.  Turns out, Waterhouse finds that he cannot concentrate on solving decryption problems (or much of anything else) if he has had no sexual release for a defined period of time.  He writes out equations, and makes graphs plotting his rise in sexual tension, and his resultant lack of effectiveness in his work.  Once he manages a requisite release--and he finds a variety of these--his ability to break codes for the allies skyrockets.  As typical for Lawrence, he has considered every contingency, and comes to a workable solution.  Workable, that is, until he meets Mary.  Mary, who will become his future wife and true love.  Waterhouse has a heck of a time including true love into his analysis, and he finally invents a Mary_proximity_factor (mpf).  Does including this new factor work?  Read the book, and have a lot of fun finding out. <br /> <br />There are many other such excursions and inventions, and nearly all of them work.  They wow and entertain.  They show a level of knowledge and skill in essaying complex subjects in lay terms that is very uniquely Stephenson. <br /> <br />One last example:  Toward the end of the book, where the story elements are naturally converging, and we are seriously anticipating how all will be resolved, Stephenson goes off into far left field.  Suddenly, and with no segway, we are learning about Randy Waterhouse's experiences, many years earlier, in getting his wisdom teeth pulled.  Initially, I wondered what the heck was Stephenson doing; the book is rather long, and I was anxious to see how he would conclude the various plot lines.  Turns out, for Randy anyway, having wisdom molars extracted is similar to true love.  How Stephenson manages to make this work, you'll have to read to find out.  But I will remember this section of the book for a long, long time.  Not because it is so profound, but rather for the moment and place it was introduced in the story, how odd and unexpected it was, and how well it worked at that point.   <br /> <br />Cryptonomicon is like that: strange, inventive, surprising, regularly amazingly amazing, and satisfying in the extreme.  Huge thanks to Neal Stephenson for providing this wonderful and unique book.	2005-07-31
US	50523389	R6LSJ75ZJCV6N	0446613207	512657531	Native Tongue	Books	2	4	9	N	N	TV-sitcom-gone-book	Native Tongue  <br />by Carl Hiaasen  <br /> <br />This book is fast paced, has a lot of energy, and a zany weirdness.  No doubt, it is a page-turner.  And it is better than the other book of Hiaasen's I have read, Double Whammy.  But all that does not a good read make... <br /> <br />A strength of Hiaasen's books are his characters, well defined and numerous.  Most are straightforward stereotypes, from the out-of-luck journalist-turned-publicist, the vapid sex-phone girlfriend, a steroid-doped strongman, the crude-and-sleazy millionaire bad-guy, a muscular-but-clear-minded black good-guy cop, to the dumb-but-intrinsically good-guy burglars, and loads of redneck Florida \\"crackers\\".  Hiaasen makes this cast interesting by having them jump through zany hoops, and by casting two characters that are quite original, an environmentally-militant 70+ aged woman, and an environmentally-crazed former-governor-gone-wildman.  And we meet psychotic whales and sex-starved dolphins.  Etc. etc. <br /> <br />So what's wrong.  Mainly, it's that the book stays at a level of TV-sitcom-gone-book.  It achieves zero depth in dealing with any subject.  One might think that the exception is the environment, but the story is so inane that it cannot achieve traction even here.  So perhaps Native Tongue is just pure entertainment?  If you like brainless action, gratuitous violence, gross humor, and zany \\"fun\\", Native Tongue might satisfy.   <br /> <br />I have one additional problem with Hiassen, and it's similar to the problem I so often have with Michael Crichton.  These books stink of hypocrisy.  Crichton makes a (seriously good) living off nifty science ideas while constantly bashing that same science.  Hiassen's heroes work hard to rise out of the trash heap of modern society, but Hiaasen's writing routinely wallows in that same trash heap for supposed laughs and zaniness.  <br /> <br />While I enjoyed a few sections of Native Tongue, I had no doubts at the end that I had wasted many hours that should have been better spent.	2005-06-12
US	50523389	R1PWA0QCJK4Q8Z	0671459686	401708164	Pilgermann	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Questions on a grand scale, asked by a little man	Pilgermann is a complex and somewhat (purposefully) confused portrayal of death and theology.  The story involves the final year (maybe two) in the life of a Jewish doctor--he names himself Pilgermann--during the early years of the First Crusade.  Pilgermann's story involves sin, punishment (not for the sin of adultery, but for \\"the\\" Jewish sin of Christ's crucifixion), pilgrimage, near-death experiences, a significant theological/artistic undertaking, and final life-and-death encounters.  Hoban delves deep into all three Abrahamic religions to provide the foundation for this book.  His prose is dense and hard to read, but regularly shows brilliance and provides astonishing insights.  The book is truly amazing in its depth of knowledge--I regularly stopped to read other material for sources--and in its base humanity.  It resonates with anger for the injustices of life, and is blunt in the extreme in its portrayal of death.  And yet, I found the story compelling and positive in its whole. <br /> <br />Pilgermann is a small character in spirit and accomplishment, a lonely man that seems to have no real past or future.  Is he representative of humanity in general, or simply the more cynical and defeated among us?  When he is not just passing unanimated through life, he is captured by the present.  He is often overwhelmed by the huge universe about him.  His only real interest in life seems to be a single encounter with a woman at the beginning of the book.  As his story unfolds, it seems that Pilgermann comes to no significant clarity in his life, but is regularly filled with amazing insights and depth of knowledge.  This is a book that asks very serious questions, and forces the reader to provide answers. <br /> <br />Pilgermann has very little in common with Hoban's Riddley Walker, a book that I have treasured since my youth.  The English here is clear, but the story much more complex.  Hoban has once again provided a very serious and signficant gem, but on a completely different plane of existence.	2005-06-03
US	50523389	R23B3V83MPCC74	0679739793	172571009	Waterland	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Waterland seeps in and stays	Waterland is one of those books that leaves a deep impression.  First, Graham Swift paints beautiful images of a fading way of life, along the Fens in England.  While reading Swift's descriptions of this area, I couldn't get various paintings of Monet out of my mind, where lighting and detail so depend on perspective and distance.  Swift's prose is like that, beautiful and complex, then dull and boring (only in what's being described), and then flowing back to wonderful and amazing.   <br /> <br />Swift, through the narrator of the story, Tom Crick, compares the complex ecosystem of the Fens to the people that live along it, seemingly languid and lazy, but deeper down churning and defying understanding, full of mystery and amazement if one but looks.  It takes some early work to enter the flow of the book, but what a wonderful inertia is gained.   <br /> <br />Waterland questions history and memory, both from afar and up close, from times distant and in the present, but seemingly always very personal.  The book is full of wonders, which flow with the seep and power of the Fens themselves.  The book is unique in my experience.	2005-05-31
US	50523389	R1W7PWZQ1N60LV	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great guide to scientific achievement	Singh provides an excellent reconstruction of the events leading up to and involving Andrew Wiles enormous solution to Fermat's \\"most difficult problem in history\\".  Scientific achievement most often requires huge effort and concentration, at levels hard to imagine.  Singh takes us through the heights of amazing rewards, and the depths of self-doubt and depression.  Wiles goes through both, and unhappily, many other mathematicians (tackling Fermat's Enigma or not) have ended with the later.   <br /> <br />Singh backs the reader up in history to Pythagoras, starting with that most important, and yet relatively simple mathematical proof.  He strolls us past Euclid, and (unfortunately) steams through progress made by Indian and Muslim mathematicians in the middle-ages.  Singh provides enough math to grab at the reader, some in the appendixes (more involved), and enough in the text to lay the ground work for Fermat. The 17th century injects renewed life into science and math, and into Singh's narrative.  The issues involved with Fermat's \\"final theorem\\" may be simple enumerate, but not to understand.  Singh once again gets bogged down, at this point in trying to bridge sophisticated concepts of modern math into a base of knowledge through which the reader can  connect to Wiles achievement in 1994.  Once that base is formed, and Singh moves to Wiles, the energy of the book increases by leaps and bounds. The book is very engaging in the last 3rd, where we can finally glimpse the incredible struggle, lasting over 8 years, that Wiles went through to prove Fermat right.   <br /> <br />This book gets very high praise for linking incredibly complex science to the humanity of the people working with it.  Readers will gain a fascination for Wiles' effort and achievement, and perhaps learn to want more.	2005-05-21
US	50523389	R1RIYJ09IXN0Z8	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Stephenson's unique	Snow Crash is one of those books that will either grab you in the first 30 pages, and hold you to the end, or you will hate.  You'll worry about the comic book aspect at first, but quickly get past that.    As with much of Neal Stephenson's writing, Snow Crash is completely unique.  It is hilarious through the first half of the book, and has a couple of Stephenson's amazing allegories sprinkled throughout.  One in particular describing a Dilbert-view of a future Federal bureaucracy is worth the price of the book on it's own.  Snow Crash is not, however, at the level of Cryptonomicon.  The world of Snow Crash seriously bogs down and becomes Hollywood-movie-clichd at the end.  But it's a great ride getting there.	2005-05-21
US	50523389	R27X720AFC5YT2	0812536355	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A truly great book deserving 6 stars!!	The Alien.  A beautiful, strange world thriving in a uniquely alien climate.  A totally alien sentient race, described in an evolving, and fantastically evocative, thoughtful manner.  Problems of first contact language and societal issues are crucial to the story, and handled amazingly well.  <br />The Human. Terribly cruel despotic rule, involving slavery, rape, bigotry, and &quot;state-of-the-art&quot; diplomacy and duplicity.   Millennia spanning civilizations, hemmed in by extremely well-chosen scientific, economic, ecological and societal barriers.  <br />Love is crushed, lost, rampaged and explosively rediscovered.  Dreams are buried and reawakened.<br />Deepness in the Sky is one of those very, very few novels that encompasses all of the above, in a beautifully interwoven story.  A civilization of millennium spanning space traders races to an astronomical anomaly, a newly discovered planet in an on/off-star galaxy.  They are met there by another group of space travelers whom they had not previously encountered.  Both groups are hoping to harvest huge profits from being the first to interact with the new non-human civilization just discovered on the planet.  We learn about all three civilizations in detail, via big picture views/histories, and through many, many personal characterizations.  This book manages to get us involved with, and caring about at least 12 major characters.<br />Vinge's amazing story is beautifully, tragically, magically, heartrendingly emotional, and at the same time mind-bendingly thoughtful on many levels.  I cannot overstate how great this book is.  The way he evolves our understanding of the alien civilization, until we can still care (strongly!!) about these beings as they are described not in translated human-conditioned terms, but rather in a true first-contact, &quot;eye-to-eye&quot; manner, is only one of the rare, and beautiful, back-shivering moments Vinge brings us to.  Absolutely, read and enjoy this book!!<br />I do wish asixth star could be found to rate books like this!!  5 stars are given for lesser books, because these are such rare finds.	2003-12-05
US	50523389	R3KMLPV49HU922	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Great Book, Almost	Al Franken has written a funny, often hilarious, and in places quite serious and moving book with \\"Lies (And the Lying Liars Who Tell Them).\\" <br />In Chapter 5, \\"Loving America the Al Franken Way,\\" are four pages that do an excellent job of portraying how many Democrats, Independents, and others that opposed at least portions of the war with Iraq must feel in the midst of the right's continuing indignation over our right to disagree. <br />There are many other very good places in this book, such as the chapter on \\"Operation Ignore.\\" Franken does a great job of summarizing how the Bush administration failed to follow up on the Clinton administration's effective anti-terrorism efforts prior to 9/11. Often overlooked is the fact that Clinton tried to pass on to Bush plans to aggressively deal with al Qaeda, an effort headed up by Sandy Berger and Richard Clarke. The Bush administration \\"ignored\\" these efforts and warnings about al Qaeda all the way to 9/11. <br />Franken is very moving in his recounting of the media-created debacle following Paul Wellstone's funeral. Franken's choice of recounting part of Will McLaughlin's eulogy about his father, Mike, who was Wellstone's driver and friend, is most appropriate. More than two pages of the eulogy are given, capturing the emotions of the memorial, to conclude a sad and worrisome recounting of how simple mistakes and political cruelness can be broadcast, via laziness and ineptitude by the media, as a hateful and distorted lie. <br />There are many other funny and important sections to this book. Franken writes a very effective play, where a waitress, starting out as a Bush supporter, is educated by a female tax lawyer as to how her \\"wonderful\\" $350 income tax rebate is outdone by more than $4000 in lost governmental support. A highlight of the book is a hilarious and sobering comic titled \\"Supply Side Jesus;\\" this amazing piece is nearly worth the price of the book all on it's own. <br />Using humor, but also pulling nopunches, Franken has an easy time showing Ann Coulter and Sean Hannity to be the liars they are. He takes care of Bill O'Reilly (which Franken renames Bill O'Lielly) with combined humor and outrage. Franken does not wait too long before applying the book's title to our President, George W. Bush, with \\"Operation Ignore,\\" \\"By Far the Vast Majority of My Tax Cuts...\\" and \\"Vast Lagoons of Pig Feces\\" being particularly to the point. <br />But for all its humor and great moments, this book had me shaking my head in a couple places. Franken decided to write another chapter of his \\"Chickenhawk\\" episode from \\"Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot.\\" The current chapter has even less relevance, and is more bothersome, than that from the earlier book. What is the point of this comical farce, intent on embarrassing the political right? Does Franken believe that his kind of mixed humor and malice will have any kind of positive effect? <br />Worse yet, Franken recounts a meeting he had with Barbara Bush, where she had the ill fortune to be on the same plane with him. The chapter makes it abundantly clear that Franken can be a real pain when he wants to be. Franken does no more than lower himself to his antagonists' level.<BR> <BR>Which leads to the biggest problem with this book, its \\"tone.\\" Franken spends several chapters on this issue--although talking about the political right, not himself--and does a pretty good job in making his point(s). He missed the point, however, with the ill-humored sections of this book.  To bad, in an otherwise funny and bold attempt to inject more honesty into our political discourse.	2003-10-21
US	50523389	R38YJPBTV49MCZ	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Better than the 1st, leading to greater disappointment	&quot;The Great Hunt,&quot; volume 2 of Jordan's huge Wheel of Time series, is better than the 1st book, &quot;The Eye of the World.&quot;  Jordan gets off to a great start by filling in a lot of information about characters and bits of story he left the reader wondering about in the first book.  He also garners praise for making good use of parallel universes in this book.  <br />Well, Jordan made good use of it until the disappointing exit from that universe.  The hero, Rand, is often dumb as a brick in this book, and that ultimately leads to a slow and frustrating middle section of the book.<br />There are no heroics in this book, and no grandeur.  The Great Hunt is nowhere to be seen, being rather a plodding, somewhat boring hunt between just a few characters.  Jordan never takes us to Illian in this book--the site of the Hunt's origin--and the scope of the book is not broadened by any new characters until the latter half of the book.  Rand and Loial finish the first part of their &quot;hunt&quot; with a completely ludicrous scene (SPOILER) where they sneak into the Trolloc/Darkfriend camp and simply grab the Horn and Ruby dagger and run (and get away with it!).  This is one of the least believable scenes I have ever read, and suggests a recurring flaw in Jordan's writing; he seems incapable of putting a satisfying finish to his stories and subplots.<br />Jordan does provide some interest with the Seanchan, a cold-hearted and viscous people that have invaded Toman Head.  We are lead to believe that they might be the descendents of Artur Hawkwing's armies come back to &quot;retake what was theirs.&quot;  Jordan surprisingly takes much of the mystery out of this, and other areas of suspense (such as who Selene is), by providing answers in the book's glossary.  <br />Then comes the big ending, with the rather improbably concurrence of events that bring it to fruition.  What a disappointment this ending is, a huge magic-saves-the-day groaner.  Jordan does provide areasonably good build-up with good story elements that could have made this ending great.  (SPOILERS here to end) The Horn is finally blown, the heroes of the past arrive, and:  no ceremony, no heroics (even with all the revived heroes around!), no chills, no thrills, no mystery.  <br />Everything is left up to Rand, and the story completely focuses on him:  the dead heroes have no use in helping him fight Ba'alzamon.  They do help drive the Seanchan off Toman Head, but Jordan spends almost no time on this part of the battle.  Since the Seanchan are the descendents of Artur Hawkwing, who is now present and fighting them, Jordan has a great plot element to work with.  Absolutely nothing is mentioned about this, or other possible plot elements that the reader would expect to expand the scope of the story.<br />Very quickly, for such a long build up to it, Rand and company win.  But, similar to the end of the first book, Ba'alzamon seems to undertake no negative effects from losing.  This is a very flat and unexciting ending.  Once again, Jordan seems incapable of finishing off his story properly, with real suspense or surprise or mystery to satisfy the reader.  <br />A third of the way through the third book, &quot;The Dragon Reborn,&quot; there is no help to prop up the collapse at the end of &quot;The Great Hunt.&quot;  The story simply continues as if almost nothing had happened.  This is a good time to quit this series, and find another author than can write satisfying endings to her/his books.	2003-09-08
US	50523389	R2FBHT8Z4K54S3	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Good enough for 5000+ more pages?	My son loves The Wheel of Time series, and finally talked me into reading the first book, \\"The Eye of the World.\\"  I am a sci-fi/fantasy fan, having grown up with Tolkien:  Stephen Donaldson, Vernor Vinge, and Jack McDevitt weigh in with Tolkien as some of my all-time favorites.  Recently I've read GRR Martin's first 3 volumes of \\"A Song of Ice and Fire\\" series, which is very good.  Even so, I allowed the ten+ volumes in The Wheel of Time series to put me off.  I kept asking myself how the author could possibly be good enough to spend the time required to read through his huge series? <br />After finishing \\"The Eye of the World,\\" that question remains very much in doubt.  <br />\\"The Eye of the World\\" appears to be a standard, fairly unimaginative fantasy novel, even if placed into a large setting.  The main characters, three young men (Rand, Mat and Perrin) are from a small, isolated farming village.  Their village and homes are attacked one evening by minions of the Dark One, and off they go on a quest, to remove the danger they appear to put their home village into, and to discover how they fit into the upcoming battle with Ba'alzamon (another name for the Dark One).  Rand's long-time girlfriend, Egwene, follows along, as does the village Wisdom (a woman healer and leader), Nynaeve.  The group is lead by a powerful female magician, Moirgaine, and her male Warder (protector/companion), Lan.   <br />The group is attacked and hunted by part human, part animal, rather Troll-like, Trollocs.  The Trollocs are lead by Myrddraals (or Fades), eyeless creatures of the Dark One.  Both groups are assisted by human Darkfriends.  If the names appear to be more than a bit pedestrian, perhaps that's because they are.  Jordan also uses one of the worst sentences ever for a fantasy novel, \\"The Wheel Weaves as the Wheel Wills.\\"  I shudder every time I read this, and have to imagine someone actually saying it.  Doesn't quite match up to \\"... and one ring to bind them.\\"<br />The groupis eventually joined by an Ogier named Loial, who is young and hasty (and, one supposes, loyal).  Ogier love trees, and are hairy, but friendly, giants.  They have assisted in the building of cities in Jordan's world, and are clearly a mix of Ent (Tolkien) and Giant (Donaldson).  It seems unlikely that Jordan will come close to matching the inventiveness of Tolkien or Donaldson.  Inventiveness is very important to my enjoyment of fantasy, so I find this apparent lacking in Jordan quite disappointing.  Other readers may look for different aspects in fantasy, however.  Jordan does have strong women characters, and some cultural politics, unlike Tolkien.  Jordan's writing flows better, and has deeper characterizations than Donaldson.<br />There is action in \\"The Eye of the World,\\" but the pace is slow and somewhat tedious.  For all the characters and detailed descriptions, we really do not learn much about any of the characters.  Trollocs stay trollish, we are given no clue what Fades are or how they came to be.  We learn very little about Moirgaine, and her Aes Sedai sisters, except that they are somewhat sinister and powerful.  We do learn a bit about Lan toward the end of the book, but his motivations for becoming a Warder and toward Nynaeve are left open.<br />More happens with Rand, Mat and Perrin, and this part of the story suggests better what might follow in future volumes.  All three characters seem to be headed in very different directions, physically, mentally and emotionally, but we know that they are tied together somehow.  It should be interesting to see how Jordan will handle this subplot.  Egwene and Nynaeve appear to be headed in yet another direction, adding to the mystery.  <br />Even so, I found \\"The Eye of the World\\" unrewarding, especially with the weird ending.  I have had many friends complain to me that they don't like fantasy because magic comes to the rescue whenever the author gets his characters into a jam.  I never felt that was justifiedwith Tolkien or Donaldson, but I think it is, at least in this volume, of Jordan.  He may do better with later volumes, perhaps even enough to have this book make sense.  But I am very much left with the question of whether to simply stop here and read other authors, or stay with Jordan for another volume.<br />OK.  I have read a bit into the second volume, and it is quite good so far.  Donaldson was very tough to get through in his first volume, as was (to a lesser extent) Tolkien.  I'll give Jordan the benefit of the doubt, and try another volume.	2003-09-05
US	50523389	R1F5USJ0R1SSIE	0061020052	257629486	Infinity Beach	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Slow build-up, but a great ending	Infinity Beach is a really, really interesting book.  McDevitt has successfully melded a mystery, a love story, and some very good social and sci-fi commentary in a way that is both surprising and rewarding.<br />The first half of the book sets up the mystery.  The main character, Kimberly Brandywine, becomes increasingly involved with the 25 year old disappearance of her sister, Emily.  Emily had gone on one of the few interstellar missions at that time still looking for first contact.  The mission had returned early and unsuccessfully because of engine trouble.  Emily ended up missing just a few days later after a still-unexplained explosion ripped the side of a mountain off, decimating the city she was visiting.  <br />There are considerable overtones of possible first contact in this part of the story.  But McDevitt lets us chew quite a while on the possibility that life on earth might be unique; a question not often considered in this genre.  McDevitt does not stress this question overly much.  Instead, he spends significant time inspecting the societal impact on humans in a future where, after considerable effort,  no contact has been made with any type of lifeform other than from earth.  Every world humans have visited have so far proved completely sterile.  <br />In Infinity Beach, humans have given up on finding other life, at least within their lifespan.  The society he describes has slowly relaxed into a world of virtual pleasures and work-free luxury.  <br />The only negative I had with Infinity Beach was that at this point, about mid-book, the story has slowed down quite a bit; if you feel like quitting here, keep going (it will be worth it!)!<br />The second half of the book builds the suspense as Kim gets closer to answers.  A love story and more scifi elements get involved when she follows the path of Emily's last voyage.  Quite a ways from the end of the book, McDevitt starts providing some answers to the mystery and all its threads.  These last hundred pages produce a number of great plot twists, and are fun (in a couple different ways) and depressing (in a couple other ways!) all at the same time.<br />Infinity Beach is one of those rare books that does not just &quot;stop&quot; on you.  The conclusion to the story winds down at a very nice pace, giving plenty of time for the reader to consider the consequences of the characters actions, evaluate the state of the human race, tie-up various hanging threads in the story line, and to &quot;detach&quot; from the story.  The slow buildup at the beginning of the book seemed finally worthwhile, as the end reciprocated in a similar and very rewarding fashion. <br />Infinity Beach is a great sci-fi book, with a lot of elements and pacing that are rare in the genre.  Highly recommended.	2003-07-29
US	50523389	R3V2MFOK9FAT19	0061057088	340285120	Voyage	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Great build-up to the big ending, and   fizzz	This is an interesting book about how NASA might have gotten a manned mission to Mars by now.  The story revolves around one very dedicated geologist, and her issuance into the boys club of astronauts.  The book starts well, but about half way through, Baxter gets bogged down--as so many books about NASA and US space missions seem to--in the details of the mission.  The book loses touch with human elements, and is a bit boring.<br />But, again following previous themes, disaster wakes the plotline up, and Voyage runs with good inertia to the end.  <br />The plotline is well conceived and interesting, but any of you that are interested in the alternative history (which I have read only one other book about), Baxter may disappoint you.  There is very little in Voyage of any political or historical consequence (well, other than NASA getting a manned mission to Mars).  Real figures in history (such as JFK) take a very big back seat, and add almost nothing to this book.  I found this lack of tie-in disappointing (especially with the teaser on the back cover mentioning JFK).<br />And finally, I was dismayed with the last four pages of this book.  Baxter builds everything up nicely for the finale, and completely misses.  The ending is completely out-of-character, and performs a jump back to &quot;NASA mission mode&quot; (i.e., downplayed and disappointing).  Too bad, as otherwise, Voyage was an interesting read.<br />3 of 5 stars	2003-07-27
US	50523389	R1ENXDCJM9QEME	0801064031	381708174	Time for Truth: Living Free in a World of Lies, Hype, and Spin	Books	4	10	17	N	N	great writing, but...	Guinness has written a book that is quite uneven in its presentation.  He uses many historical sources and quotations very effectively, and the first half of the book is amazingly lucid.  The philosophical introduction to modernist and postmodernist thinking is excellent, and the book is worth reading for this alone.<br />Unfortunately, Guinness seems to believe that he can convince readers about the truth of Christianity, that God _is_ truth, in the final 60 pages.  It ain't possible, at least for my agnostic tendencies.  Guinness absolutely convinced me that many postmodern thoughts are dangerous, but the extension that a belief in the Bible is the cure...<br />I have to also say that the author couldn't resist running too far to the right, politically, in my opinion.  I agree with just about everything Guinness says about former President Clinton, but what he doesn't say speaks volumes, to the detriment of this book.  He is unequivocally negative about Clinton, never once relenting, even with regard to Clinton's own personal beliefs.  (Always thought it was odd that Christians weren't more charitable about the Clintons.)  Never once mentions Iran Contra, never once mentions Rush Limbaugh, never once...  Well, you can probably figure out which side of center I sit on politically.  With the rabid right-wing out there saying whatever they wish, and claiming that it is the _truth_ (based on the Bible, of course) without cessation, Guinness should have used more balance in his presentation of current events.<br />Even so, I very much enjoyed &quot;Time for Truth.&quot;  I learned a lot, and although it is clear that there is much more to learn after finishing it, that's likely to be very close to what Guinness intended.	2003-07-20
US	50523389	R1GYGAUDW8DKE6	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	2	22	53	N	N	Ponder away	Christopher Moore has written a very interesting book.  Perhaps it is worth reading just to ponder on its purpose.  The purpose is quite elusive indeed.<br />Moore takes the unknown story of Joshua's (Christ's) childhood, and plops it into the gutter of twentieth century muck.  We are sent into the games and utterances of children that would be easy to envisage today, but quite difficult and disconcerting (unbelievable? or were kids always kids?) to think about for Jesus/Joshua.  Early on in the book, as one example, Joshua kills and brings life back to, kills and brings life back to, repeatedly, a lizard, all to satisfy his own adolescent curiosity, and the entertainment of his best friend Biff.  Biff is the narrator of the story, a brazen, scheming, streetwise chap that loves and is loyal to Joshua.<br />If you find it difficult to get past the idea of Jesus killing an animal just to satisfy himself that he can reanimate it, Lamb may not be for you.  I suppose this kind of high jinks is funny to some people, but I had a hard time finding the humor in much of Lamb.  There are funny sections, but to call the book, in an encompassing description, funny or hilarious, is going way too far for me.  But there is much more to Lamb than humor.<br />Even so, Moore has much more in store for you in this book that will be at least as disconcerting as the lizard scene; the angels, as another example, are quite disconcerting; think John Travolta's Michael.  It is true that the book becomes more &quot;traditional&quot; in its presentation of Joshua as he approaches 30.  And the later quarter of the book tries to stick to the known themes about Jesus in the Bible.<br />In the middle, the major portion of the book, there are some very interesting sections where Joshua and Biff journey the world, looking for the three wise men.  They learn about other worldviews and religions in three stories, dealing with Islam, Buddhism, and Hinduism.  All are compelling, although the later is certainly given the harshest treatment.<br />So Moore transcends time in some sense, giving a modern version of Jesus/Joshua to ponder.  He crosses boundaries on the world's biggest religions.  And he finally makes a statement with regard to Biff, and Jesus's other best friend Maggie (Mary of Magdalene), that is quite difficult to understand.  I finally had to suppose that Moore was quite intentional with this ending, and without giving too much away, let me say that it was very surprising, and perhaps quite profound.<br />After all that, you might be confused as to whether I liked Lamb or not.  I can say quite clearly that in the end I did not.  It did make me think, and I am still thinking about it.  Usually, that is exactly the kind of book I do like, and like a lot.  But, in the final analysis, I found this book ugly, vulgar, and trivializing (just in case you are wondering, I am not a Christian).  In other words, it absolutely did not work for me.  Moore took a theme that his writing simply could not encompass; it was too big, and too important for his humor and simplistic views.  He wasn't convincing in any of the portrayals, especially Biff's, the key figure throughout the book.<br />Perhaps I'll feel differently with time.  But I doubt it.  For the kind of message Moore seems to be sending with this book, it will take more than a Biff to make the case.	2003-07-12
US	50523389	R1AOK3MLCCFMW3	0140240039	994918968	The Killing of a President: The Complete Photographic Record of the Assassination, the Conspiracy, and	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A great overview of the JFK assassination	Robert Groden does an excellent job of summarizing the assassination in photographs; not too surprising considering his background.  There isn't anything visual of particular note here for anyone that has read a bit about the assassination previously; at least it appeared that everything here was covered elsewhere in the three or four other books I'd read.  Even so, the book is an excellent collection.  <br />The only complaint I have is that Groden could have done a better job with the captions, and pointing out spots in the photographs that are none too apparent to the reader.<br />What I did find surprising with this book is how well it read; Groden does an excellent job placing succienct discussions about the photographs, and manages to stay, for the most part, quite objective and factual in those discussions.  I particularly liked the bookends of the compilation:  the first page shows JFK's presidential memo indicating his intention to pull out of Vietnam; the last page shows Johnson's memo, written just days after JFK's death, reversing that policy.  If JFK had stayed his course in this one respect, over 50,000 American soldiers, and millions of southeast asians, may have been saved from untimely deaths. <br />How different would the world be if JFK had survived, or a proper investigation into his death had been carried out?  We'll never know.  But Groden's book makes some very important statements about what we should have learned from this particular piece of history, and what we can still do about it.	2003-07-05
US	50523389	R1ZZO89854TB2V	1560250585	701598452	The Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy: The Conspiracy and Cover-Up 25th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Clearly written, well done, but with what result?	Turner and Christian present a well documented, convincing story of why the RFK assassination needed independent review in 1970s or 80s.  This book places a lot of questions at the feet of the LAPD, and perhaps also with the CIA.  But the major question is why there was not more public outcry for a review of the investigation back in 1968 and the following ten years.  <br />One wonders, now in 2003, what relevance is left to this book.  After reading it, any reader should better understand how too blind a faith in our government and its agencies might lead to a loss of control over these agencies, with disasterous results.  Will we allow history to repeat itself?  At a time when significant diminishing of our individual freedoms is occurring, the histories of RFK and JFK might make us rethink how far we might want to go to battle terrorism.  Even if you don't really buy-in to any of the conspiracy theories, the clumsiness of the investigations should provide plenty of reasons to want _more_ oversight of these agencies, not less.	2003-05-29
US	50523389	R2Z5YY45C9L2BV	0380816555	83189557	Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Unusual, fun book	This is another zany, fun book from Christopher Moore; it is the 2nd novel I've read of his, the first being Coyote Blue. Practical Demonkeeping was neither as funny, nor as thoughtful as Coyote Blue, but was unusual enough, and had good enough characterizations to make this an easy, quick, and fun read. The setting of Pine City in CA provides plenty of characters for Moore to establish, but the story of the demon and his keeper is a bit too involved, and perhaps not grounded sufficiently to make this a four or five star book. Even so, it was fun to read.	2003-05-29
US	50523389	R14U0VPC5BB6Q1	0743467523	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Great start, poor finish, unrewarding result	The best summary for Dreamcatcher is that it ended up as typical Stephen King fare. For me, that is not a good thing. I have always felt that King writes novels by taking some fairly simple--perhaps weird, perhaps scary, but still relatively simple--ideas and milking them for all they are worth. I nearly always come away feeling cheated, that the time spent was not worth the final result. Dreamcatcher fits right into this theme.<br />With Dreamcatcher, King takes the ever-ready body snatcher formula, mixes in some really crude and disgusting bodily functions (...from Alien, with a twist only a twelve-year-old boy would appreciate), pours on some completely undeveloped aliens and the generic military crazy guy, tries to spice it up with a poor pinch of biochemistry, and winds up with a labored and predictable car chase. It ends up being a mess. How bad can the book get? When King runs out of old ideas he can muck up, he comes up with stuff like: the human memory becomes, literally, a storage room full of filing cabinets. <br />Still, Dreamcatcher has more than enough to get you going, and to not want to put it down for quite a while. King has some very good characterizations, and an interesting storyline, with a group of boys/men that are psychologically connected somehow. The story of these men as teenagers would make the book worth reading except for its excessive length.<br />So a great start with some pretty bad plot devices through the middle, unfortunately running into a long, predictable chase scene at the end; King just peters out with hundreds of pages to go. Unless you are a Stephen King fan, I recommend picking up something more worth your time.	2003-05-29
US	50523389	R3AEW21QO58K7F	094178102X	732381530	On the Trail of the Assassins: My Investigation and Prosecution of the Murder of President Kennedy	Books	4	20	27	N	N	Can we safely ignore issues raised by JFK's assassination?	Jim Garrison presents a very readable, seemingly well-documented and familiar story (to any that have seen the movie JFK) about the conspiracy that assassinated JFK.  This story is very tragic, and quite depressing to contemplate as being true.  Many readers will be so outraged by Garrison's conclusions, that they will deny the possibility that it could be true.  They will accept a common perception that Garrison is a somewhat deranged, publicity-seeking nut, and refuse to look further into what might the real story of this book, one that has significant relevance today.<br />After reading On the Trail of the Assassins--and, at about the same time, the excellent, perhaps even more depressing Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers by Daniel Ellsberg--I decided I had to read the other side's story about JFK's assassination.  The best choice seemed to be Case Closed by Gerald Posner.  <br />Three important issue rose out of the muddy waters of these readings.  <br />1) I came away very confused about the assassination of JFK:  the physical evidence in this monumental turning point in American politics was so poorly documented and so grossly mismanaged that we may never really find out what happened.  <br />2) Worries about our government were revived, specifically our ability to control our federal agencies like the CIA and FBI.  Memories of Watergate and the Nixon presidency came back, and all the revelations that arose from that debacle in our not-too-distant past.  <br />3) A realization crystallized, especially from reading Garrison's and Posner's books, that it may have become impossible for the average person (one not willing to spent a fraction of one's lifetime looking in detail into this issue) to judge whom to believe, and what is credible.  Posner's book, in particular, appears to be very well documented, but has significant omissions in a number of areas that one presumes must not have supported Posner's thesis.<br />The truth about JFK's assassination, forty years after the fact, seems to becoming a historical essay in confusion:  either serious blundering by a large number of people occurred, or a conspiracy killed the president and worked to cover-up the truth.  The truth here is important.  But is it attainable?<br />The apparent inability for average people to determine the truth and relevance of major book, media and internet offerings is very significant in today's society.  Garrison's and Posner's books only clarify how big the problem is, but do not offer assistance otherwise in resolving this new, 21st century problem. <br />The most relevant issue that we can do something about, with the understanding that comes from JFK's assassination, is the concern about our government and proper oversight and control of it's agencies.   This concern is ever so important right now, with the current degradation of our personal freedoms, and the great strengthening of the agencies that were (hopefully) better controlled following Watergate.  <br />Garrison presents a very readable and compelling story.  No doubt, it is one that is hard to accept from many points of view.  The conspiracy he suggests would have had to be quite large.  Are the public and media at the mercy of their inner desires to just not believe it to be possible?  Could local police agencies and the FBI get caught up in a cover-up for reasons other than the murder of a popular, bright, revolutionary, and, in important circles, hated president?  Perhaps.  <br />The truth of JFK's assassination seems secondary at this time.  The possibilities Garrison and other conspiracy \\"buffs\\" (as Posner coins them) suggest, and that Ellsberg and the Pentagon Papers clearly show, are the true story worth reading.  The public's desire for the good ending, the honorable society, and the hindrance of dissenting opinions requires balance:  Garrison provides some here.	2003-05-18
US	50523389	R2E4HELL91338F	0380725231	573028455	Coyote Blue	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A truly funny book, and a bit more	Coyote Blue is the first novel of Christopher Moore's I have read, and it is easy to see why he is so popular.  The whole book is a crazy, zany, wild ride for the reader and main character alike, and ultimately reaches a higher quality that transcends the goofiness.  Moore presents a completely hilarious character, the Crow god Coyote.  Coyote and a number of Crow legends (I have no idea how historically accurate they might be) are always invoked in significant ways in the story, however, and force thoughtfulness and serious consideration on the reader.  In other words, I was laughing as much as I ever have with a book, while at the same time mulling over some serious issues about life in general.  Coyote Blue is a wonderful book!	2003-05-18
US	50523389	R3OL9X1T2BII1P	0385474466	599805840	Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK	Books	4	8	14	N	N	Likely the case will never be closed...	Posner writes a very readable, and at the same time, very well documented book in Case Closed. He makes a compelling case that Oswald was a truly nutty guy, driven to communism as a teen. Posner describes Oswald as a loaner that fit in neither in the US nor in the Soviet Union. His estrangement and odd psyche culminated in the motives that Oswald may have used in the assassination. Posner also makes a compelling case that Jack Ruby was a hot head that might well have shot Oswald on an impulse.<br />These character analyses are clearly the strength of Posner's book. The documentation, however, as good and well-researched as it appears to be, is where problems become significant. How are we supposed to decide upon the accuracy or quality of the selected references? If you tend to believe the government (Secret Service, FBI, CIA, etc.) are all good people working under proper oversight, then you will likely believe Posner's story. But if you have a tendency to mistrust these organizations, and think that some part of them might have had the ability to misuse their powers, then Case Closed will present problems for you. Posner does a hatchet job on just about anyone that disagrees with his opinion of the events. Perhaps what he says about Jim Garrison, as the most obvious example, is true. But in many parts of the book it is very difficult to decide who to believe. <br />One additional problem with Case Closed is that Posner seems to never think that any of his readers would mistrust him, so he never talks about who he is or why we should accept his judgement and his selection of references. These issues become overwhelming if you get the point I currently am at in worrying that we may never really get the truth with the JFK assassination. Posner spins a good story, but so do others.<br />Physical evidence should make the difference; we should be able to look at the physical evidence and decide on that basis. Here is the primary problem with the JFK assassination, and unfortunately, Posner does not help. He agrees in a rather hand waving way that the autopsy at Bethesda was terribly done. He never talks about why the limousine JFK was shot in was cleaned up so quickly by the Secret Service after the shooting, destroying valuable crime scene evidence. He never discusses how JFK's brain could have gotten \\"lost.\\" He doesn't discuss why security along the route in Dallas wasn't better, or why the Secret Service was so slow to react to the shooting. He shows a new analysis of the magic-bullet theory that is hard to believe: how did the bullet enter JFK below the neck line, exit mid-throat, and have a downward trajectory, when JFK had a back brace that prevented him from leaning forward? <br />If Posner is correct in his assertions, he asks us to believe in a nearly unbelievable set of blunders and ineptitude on the part of a quite large number of people. Which is correct, this seeming endless string of missteps and incompetence on the part of Dallas police, Bethesda physicians, Secret Service, etc., or a conspiracy involving some rogue element in the CIA (for example)? <br />Posner could have provided better balance in Case Closed (he is very harsh to the conspiracy buffs), and he avoids or too-easily dismisses too many problems with the physical evidence to make his title accurate. Even so, this is a very readable book, and I do recommend it for those wanting to learn more about the JFK assassination.	2003-05-15
US	50523389	R3SV82BZZ9G88N	0681831499	257885138	Mighty Bright Clip-On Reader's	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a great little light, but bulbs do not last	The Might Bright is a great little light to read by.  It gives a good amount of light, but not so much as to bother your partner.  My wife regularly complained about my reading light until I got this. It's easy to adjust, and is not so heavy as to be bothersome hooked onto the book.  Unfortunately, the bulbs don't last very long at all (only 2-3 weeks for me, but I manage to regularly fall asleep with it on).  I do have the AC adaptor, which I'd recommend.	2003-03-16
US	50523389	R2IY1A5URRI1SE	0446531251	451794091	In His Image: Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable series	This is a very readable series that covers some very problematic themes.  BeauSeigneur, in the first two books anyway, does a great job of combining religion, history, scifi, and mystery into a hard-to-put-down story.  There are likely to be some uncomfortable moments for any reader, as BeauSeigneur sends us through historical details and quite a bit of both conventional (Christian) and unconventional (New Age) theology.  <br />The series begins with an enthralling recounting of an investigation of the Shroud of Turin.  I had a hard time deciding what was fact or fiction, but BeauSeigneur provides enough references to make us (at least those like me that are not well-versed in the actual events surrounding the Shroud) believe that this version must be fairly close to the truth.  Tragedy follows for the lead characters, and the most gripping moments in the series are in the first book.  <br />The momentum of the storyline, and BeauSeigneur's obvious depth of research easily move us through questions and &quot;weirder&quot; moments; e.g., I kept asking myself through parts of the 2nd book, &quot;does this guy really want us to buy into this New Age stuff or not?.&quot;  Theologically, this book was the most uncomfortable of the three, but in a good way.  <br />The final book was very much a let down for me.  The series transitioned from something that made me question my own perceptions and beliefs, and hardened into BeauSeigneur's vision.  His views don't follow closely to mine, so other readers are clearly more satisfied with book 3 than I was.  Even so, I rate this series as an excellent read:  four stars out of five.	2003-03-10
US	50523389	R6RGY9EFR483L	0436204614	719069674	Devil's Valley	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A novel book	I very much enjoyed Brink's novel \\"Devils Valley.\\"  A strange story that keeps you on the edge, wondering what is going to happen next.  Magic, ghosts (looking and acting much like real people), and a gritty realistic texture to the location and people are combined with significant social insights and total unpredictability to make Devils Valley as _novel_ a book as any I've read.  Brink's examination of local history and journalistic writing also delves into some interesting domains:  for example, where and how much is it proper to delve into people's personal affairs.<br />I'm a bit surprised that other readers didn't look at this book as more of an attempt by the author to describe a place that is more literally an aspect of the title itself.  <br />SPOILERS:  Brink does not answer the question of whether we are reading about one person's hell (or purgatory) or not, but there is much in the book that hints that the main character, Flip Lochner, is in his own personal hell.  We are told very little about Flip's previous life, as one example, other than that his wife kicked him out of the house, and that he has a grown son and daughter that no longer have much to do with him.  Is Flip meeting other people that are involved in independent familial beatings and rapes, or are these people simply projections of his own past?  There is much in Devils Valley that is hard to read, but it is done in a smart, engaging, questioning way.  A great book, with much to think and ponder on.	2003-03-10
US	50523389	R3A5F77GPTC9HQ	0201328399	26703575	Venus Revealed: A New Look Below The Clouds Of Our Mysterious Twin Planet	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An important book that's fun to read	Anyone that wonders why humans should continue to invest in space exploration--especially important at this time of tragedy with the Columbia mission--will find many answers in this excellent book.  Grinspoon is one of those rare writers that enthralls us with the mystery and wonder of science, while at the same time not shying away from, or diminishing the complexities of scientific discovery.  He describes with clarity why studies of other planets are important endeavors in their own right, as well as for our continued understanding of our own planet Earth.  <br />All readers will gain an appreciation from Grinspoon for scientific discovery:  how it builds with improving data from insights that at first seem remote and uncertain into solid foundations for better understanding of issues such as global warming on earth.  Volcanology, plate tectonics, acid rain, and planetary climatology are all discussed in detail, as well as the more esoteric phenomena of planet formation and extra-terrestrial life.  While the later topics might be argued as to their importance with regard to current problems on our planet, Grinspoon makes excellent connections for studies of the former issues on Venus, and their impact to our knowledge of our own home planet.  Anything that significantly improves our understanding of global warming, plate tectonics (earthquakes), etc., is worth a significant and continuing investment.  Venus Revealed is great book in many respects:  lack of a bibliography is the only fault worth mentioning.  (And I, for one, loved the often hilarious footnotes!)  Highly recommended.	2003-02-25
US	50523389	R1B2H791F6H7IN	080501246X	51063647	The Glass Bead Game: (Magister Ludi) A Novel	Books	1	12	43	N	N	Good in bed?	I'll just be honest: the Glass Bead Game is boring!! The only positive aspect of this book for me was that it kept putting me to sleep quickly.<br /><br />The first set of problems I had with the book might not be real serious, but they did bother me on a constant basis throughout, and that is that the book is quite dated.  For example, women deem no serious mention by Hesse in this book at all. I had a hard time getting past Hesse's discrimination in this regard. The fact that his \\"utopia\\" is based on monastic corollaries provides no excuse; there should at the least have been some discussion about the convent analog and what the women Glass Bead Game players were doing. That might have added some interest, anyway.  There are lots of other problems with dating in Hesse's supposedly futuristic society, but it appears most readers are content with them.<br />So back to the main problem:  the book is just really boring. It espouses meditation, and the positives of Buddhist philosophy, but in such a repetitive manner as to be somewhat mind-numbing. The positive descriptions of the supposed utopian society are easy to disregard, being obviously a sterile and inert society. It therefore comes as absolutely no surprise when Hesse informs us late in the book that this is so, and that the main character agrees.  (yawn)  The comparisons with other philosophies and religions I found lacking.  The mysticism and meditative ideas were not novel or particularly interesting.<br />I heard about this book from a friend that enjoyed Eco's The Name of the Rose. That was a book I really enjoyed. This one never resonated for me in any way.	2003-01-21
US	50523389	R3DW8PGYCE5UNE	1569472203	137302133	Hippopotamus Marsh: Lord of the Two Lands: Volume I (Lords of the Two Lands)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Mainly a setup for the next book	In the Hippopotamus Marsh, Pauline Gedge develops an interesting perspective for the once-rulers of Egypt, the Taos.  In this book, they are passing life away as a minor ruling family of the Weset province in mid-Egypt.  Their forefathers succumbed to the Hyksos, invaders from the east that have become Egypt's present pharaohs.  The Hippopotamus Marsh tells the story of how the Taos come out of their physically comfortable, but psychologically stressed servitude to the Hyksos.<br />The story is told exclusively from the point of the view of the Tao family members, and the family dynamics are interesting and complex.  The Weset area and its surroundings are described in beautiful detail.  Unfortunately, Gedge says nothing about how anyone else in Egypt at that time lived or thought.  She never lets us enter the minds of the many servants that wait on the Taos, and we almost never meet any of the peasants that support their moderate wealth.  <br />The presentation of the Tao family is surrealistically loving and kind, being completely at odds with common modern views of rulers of this time period in Egypt.  Gedge is clearly trying to fix this new point of view, and there is real interest in her reorienting our perceptions and assumptions.  Gedge's presentation is not supported by anything factual, however, and the lack of viewpoint from those supporting the family--the servants and peasants--makes her postulate tenuous.  Even so, Gedge makes the Taos and middle Egypt into interesting historical fiction.<br />The main problem with this book is that it goes nowhere except as a setup for the next book.  Still, it's a good read, and hopefully the next book will continue on a good start.	2002-05-20
US	50523389	RHQFIWVFWKD2R	0440207428	149244382	The Minotaur	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Extremely enjoyable read	I very much enjoyed this high-tech (which is not quite up to Clancey), detective, spy thriller.  Coonts does a great job of personalizing his characters (and here, I think, better than Clancey).  This was the first book I've read by Coonts, and it was great even out of order for the series.  I'm very happy to see that readers think there are better books by Coonts out there.  They must be very good indeed.	2002-04-28
US	50523389	R362NGYLIIVR7T	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Seeing the movie only adds to the book	Saw the movie well before reading this book.  Usually when a movie follows very close to the book, I don't enjoy the read.  This was different, and I can only make a few guesses as to why.  One is that I could enjoy the style and intelligence of the author without having to be visually and audibly pummeled by scenes of depravity and torture.  In contrast, the movie provided such strong characters--especially Hannibal Lector by Anthony Hopkins and Clarice Starling by Jodie Foster--that they were right there for me to favorably draw on while gaining the extra insight and better pacing that books usually provide.  Whatever the reasons, the book is most enjoyable, and well worth read, after seeing the movie or (I suppose) prior to as well.	2002-04-27
US	50523389	R3VU07DUD0HOC4	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Very compelling reading	This book is about abortion, and does not avoid the more emotion-laden issues of late-term abortion.  It also shows clearly how important the presidency can be in the nomination of Supreme Court judges.  It is a very thought provoking and entertaining read.  <br />Before reading Protect and Defend, I was moderately pro-life.  Patterson does an excellent job of showing many of the faces and facets of the abortion issue.  He hasn't changed my mind (hard to do with this subject!), but has gotten me thinking about the issue in a more humane and thoughtful way.  Chad Palmer is a character that resonates strongly.  The Tierney parents are very compelling.  Mary Ann (and her lawyer) are real and tragic.  Patterson generates in these characters a quality that touches down deep.  <br />Patterson treats the Christian Right in a quite heavy-handed manner.  Much of what he says seems deserved, and until close to the end of the book, the Tierney parents do a good job of stating the case for pro-life.  When we discover the parents' flaw, however, Patterson's arguments become suspect.  He has gone too far, and in a way that seems unnecessary.  At least, these were my initial reactions.  On reflection, it is not hard to believe that it would take just such flawed persons to have a child in the situation presented....  The book evokes strong emotions:  the quality of the book is shown most clearly by having us wanting to understand Patterson's (Mary Ann and her lawyer's) reasoning, even when we are strongly disagreeing.<br />The Tierney parents are not the only couple here that have significant flaws.  It seems everyone in this book does.  Is that human nature, and part of the problem with pro-life's stance?  I'm not sure Patterson intended this.  The number of personal problems revolving around childbirth and abortion make portions of the storyline seem contrived.  Even so, Protect and Defend more than holds it own as engaging, thought provoking, and most worthwhile.	2002-04-27
US	50523389	RQT0I6PAVNY53	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A mystery that's a lot more!	I'm not really much of a mystery fan.  But I love historical fiction.  An Instance of the Fingerpost definitely fits the bill in both respects.  I can only suppose mystery fans will like the book.  But I can give with certainty my highest recommendation for this book for those that love historical fiction.  I haven't felt quite so _placed_ into a historical setting with such vivid characterizations since reading Shogun a long time ago.  The Shogun comparison is quite narrow, as the two books are very different.  But different is a very much positive aspect of the Fingerpost; I've never read anything quite like it.  A great read!!	2002-04-24
US	50523389	R3V2LCPZVXK3WI	0385420935	794444982	The Cartoon History of the Universe II, Volumes 8-13: From the Springtime of China to the Fall of Rome (Pt.2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good intro to classical (with a twist) world history	This book is not as entertaining as the earlier volume.  But it does cover a lot of history, and certainly is one way to get kids today learning some history.  The reading list in the back of the book is excellent.	2002-04-24
US	50523389	R24GXX2E8L67GO	0671894404	481207217	The Final Days	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A great read for those wanting to understand a bit better...	This book is amazingly detailed, and after the first 100 pages or so becomes an enjoyable read.  The earlier sections are pretty hard to get through, feeling very disjointed and unconnected (perhaps it was easier to read 25 years ago!).  I doubt understanding Nixon is really possible, but this book gives detailed insight into what likely was going on during his last days as president.	2002-04-24
US	50523389	R3NYEKK9S6UX3R	0385265204	485017291	Cartoon History of the Universe Volumes 1-7	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wacky and weird:  a great way to learn some history	Irreverent, goofy, funny, entertaining, and educational:  all apply to this unique book.  This particular book gives a good account of evolution.  Lots of fun, which clearly has educational value.  The second book, vols 8-13, is not nearly as entertaining.  If you don't mind some fun being poked at traditional religious beliefs, this is a good history book for older kids and adults.	2002-04-24
US	50523389	R2X97VOTR78KSQ	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	2	8	13	N	N	Lots of detail, but no personality	This book left me cold.  It has great detail of information, but I didn't learned much from it.  Lewis goes out of his way to depersonalize the book.  He often gives generalities, for example, about how brutal certain periods were, but then provides no details at all about what the brutality entailed.  Usually, he dismisses problems in Islam history by simply stating that Christian regimes at the time were worse (believable, but the reader should expect to learn some details about what was happening at the time).  The frustration is that Lewis never tells us what life was really like.  Were women satisfied in everyday life?  In the palace and on the farm?  What really were the restrictions on them?  How did people in Persia, Arabia, and other regions feel about Islam from 700 through 1800 AD?  This book just does not give any personality to the dates and names.  As a person with a typical Protestant upbringing who is trying to learn about Islam, this book did very little for me.	2002-04-24
US	50523389	R1CXOTY4DU94WH	1586632388	693259451	Historical Atlas of the Ancient World 4,000,000 - 500 BC	Books	5	28	30	N	N	An excellent, readable reference	I have started reading a lot of historical fiction and nonfiction, and have found Haywood's Altas to be very useful.  It works well as an introduction, being quite readable and succinct.  In addition, it is an excellent reference to use when reading nonfiction tombs that presume we all know where all the Hittites came from, or how the Illyrians migrated to Italy.  Just easily finding Zhou, or Thrace on a map has been a big help for me.  A good atlas, well worth the reasonably price.	2002-04-24
US	50523389	RX16Z8PEM7I7Y	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	2	9	25	N	N	Serious effort required, with little reward	Unless you have an in-depth classical education, and are knowledgable about the historical geography of Europe, I recommend you avoid this book. I tried Davies after reading the first three volumes of Will Durant's \\"The Story of Civilization.\\" I was hoping for better focus, and fewer pages. Durant often numbs the reader with huge numbers of names and places (with very few maps). But Davies is worse than Durant in this respect! He assumes the reader is _very_ knowledgable about the historical geography of Europe (not enough maps!), and also assumes the reader has a detailed classical education (e.g., he gives less than 1 page of discussion on Plato and Aristotle). I purchased Haywood's excellent atlas of world history, spent time fumbling through Davies' detailed appendixes, and read slowly through the first 100+ pages. But the effort was not rewarded. And that is a shame: Davies spends many pages in his introduction discussing how Americans (like myself) need a reasonably sized book from which we can learn about our European heritage. I haven't found that book yet.	2002-02-06
US	50523389	R2E92UOW5VNB0T	0452282098	322992187	City of God	Books	4	3	4	N	N	First half, absolute fantastic, but then disappointing	After 60 pages, I went back and reread from page 1.  I did this for three reasons.  First, I was quite confused about what was going on.  Doctorow relates four or five different peoples thoughts, but without letting us know who.   Second, I decided it would be worth going through those 60 pages again, so packed with interesting perspectives and discussions.  And last, because I thought it would be fun and useful to reread.  Those 60 pages are so good I'm still glad I reread them.<br />But pretty quickly, the book dropped into an easier-to-understand mode (but less interesting in content), and finally shallowed into a combination of predictable, goofy (no really discernable common theme), and (for me) downright uninteresting.  What a disappointment.<br />But depending on your religious perspectives, perhaps you will be more satisfied with the conclusion of the book.<br />I finally decided the book is worth a 4/5 rating:  the first 60 pages are as interesting a read as I've had in quite a while.  And the next hundred are quite interesting.  I only became unhappy with the book during the last 50-75 pages.  If you want to read an interesting perspective on religion, city/world observations, with some science and cosmology mixed in, this book is worth the initial confusion.	2002-01-17
US	50523389	R2605HLY75QNAZ	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three great ideas, one wonderful SF novel	Vernor Vinge is full of ideas, and bases them as much as possible on sound science; in A Fire Upon the Deep, he meshes three great ideas. Idea #1: Could evolution provide a way for a species without opposable thumbs to obtain high-level intelligence (as we understand it anyway). If otters or dogs could work extraordinarily well together--Vinge uses telepathy--perhaps the use of multiple mouths and paws could replace dexterous hands. There's no supernatural or paranormal involved. The telepathy is based on sound transmission, but then must be short-range and intrinsically noisy. A small group of individuals could form an intelligent group-mind, but because of the telepathic noise, the group-person members would have to stay close to each other, and distant from other group people. Such are the Tine creatures described in A Fire Upon the Deep. This society is very believable, and amazingly complex and fleshed out. Vinge eases our preconceptions, ignorance, and prejudices, based on our monolithic understanding of human society, into an understanding of this radically different, totally foreign society.  <br /> <br />Idea #2: How could a plant take on intelligence that humans can understand? Vinge does not resort to a common theme in other SF, plants walking on their roots. The plant's mode of transportation as presented by Vinge allows them to also gain short-term memory. The result is two central characters to the story, a male-female couple that resemble mini-palm trees that become very endearing as the story proceeds.  <br /> <br />Idea #3: What if the ability to go faster-than-light-speed depended on the density of space? That would mean the inner part of a galaxy would be hard to travel through (slower than light speed), enforcing cold sleep and multigenerational interplanetary travel in those regions. But further out, interplanetary travel might occur easily within single lifetimes. Vinge extends this idea... Computational speed currently is limited by the speedof light (speed of an electron). The ability to surpass that limitation would mean that artificial/cognitive intelligence would be vastly superior in the outer galaxy. That intelligence might surpass the comprehension of humans minds in the outer regions of a galaxy, becoming Transcendent. What would this mean to civilizations throughout a galaxy?  <br /> <br />Vinge combines these 3 big ideas--each one of them enough to have supported an entire novel on their own--grounds them in remarkably complex characters, supports them with engaging prose, and immerses them in an energetically plausible story, to create an amazingly good SF novel. For people like me anyway. This kind of idea-based SF might not be everyone's favorite, but the Tines--especially the synergistic duo of the 8-member child Ambi and human child Jeffrey--and the mini-palm-lifeforms Blueshell and Greenstalk, are special and wonderful, and will reward all readers.  <br /> <br />A Fire Upon the Deep is not without a few minor faults. Vinge involves a bit of magic at the end, internet-based ideas are a bit dated, and an interstellar chase goes on a bit long. Even so, A Fire Upon the Deep is a fantastic SF book of the very highest caliber. Highest recommendation! <br />	2002-01-03
US	50523389	R149J4P4UQX7O1	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Interesting prose, but too weird to believe	Although I enjoyed Frazier's prose for the first hundred pages or so, that alone was not sufficient.  I could not buy into the storyline for this book.  The characters that Inman meets along his walk back home just were too strange to believe.  Maybe one such odd character would have been acceptable, but this book is full of them.  The ending was predictable and therefore rather boring.  <br />I picked up this book after reading a lot of nonfiction on the Civil War (McPherson's Battle Cry of Freedom and Shelby Foote's 3 vol series Civil War: A Narrative) in the hope of getting a more personal view of the common person's life during the war, especially in the south.  This book did not fulfill my hopes in these respects. I finished not believing much that happened as really being true to everyday life in the south.  Cold Mountain is a fantasy written in a historical setting.	2001-12-30
US	50523389	R3CO0EUFM4UIPO	9998073286	268217544	White Gold Wielder	Books	2	9	17	N	N	Unbelief-able	I just don't believe how bad this last, sixth book, of the Covenant series is.  I truly love the rest of the series, and just finished a third reading  of the complete set.  This time I took my time. I did not rush. I waited  after finishing the One Tree before starting the last book.  All because I  remembered not enjoying the White Gold Wielder (WGW) the previous time, and  could not remember why.  I figured I had just worn myself out, reading too  late into the night as I sometimes do with a great writer.  Maybe I had not  given Donaldson the patience he insists on so often with his complex  writing, patience that is well rewarded in the One Tree.<br />But the first  half of WGW is excruciatingly bad.  Donaldson simply gives up on trying to  have the book make sense.  And without the invention and wonder of the  previous books, I wasn't able to excuse him this time.  For example:  why  with 40 giants on the Search do only four go with Covenant and Linden back  into the Land?  Why does everyone work like hell to move about under the  Sunbane, instead of during the night when movement would be much simpler?   Why doesn't Donaldson come up with a single decent new idea until 40 pages  left to go in this book? Is this just another author resting on his  laurels, or was Donaldson really bereft of new ideas?  <br />About halfway  through, the story becomes somewhat readable, but only the last fifty pages  or so are enjoyable.  And what pain to get there for the reader!  Perhaps  Donaldson believes the reader, like Covenant, has to go through torment to  earn that final reward.  It is a good send-off, but the rest of this book  really is poor.  <br />I had remembered Lord Foul's Bane and the Wounded Land  as being the least of each series.  Lord Foul's Bane earns that  recognition, as a terrible Tolkien rip-off and seriously flawed in  character development.  And the Illearth War and the Power That Preserves  are truly great books that demonstrate clearly Donaldson's lackings with  his first try.  The Wounded Land is actually pretty decent, but shows  similarities to the worst of WGW in the later half of the book.  Donaldson  has Covenant doing stupid stuff simply to extend the storyline.  But the  Wounded Land ends on a high note.  And the One Tree I believe is the best  of the series in many ways; certainly few books anywhere have as complex  and compelling a love story as that portrayed here.  And there are a couple  truly great plot twists along the way.<br />So I had erased the displeasure of  WGW from my memory... now I see that I had a simple case of unbelief.	2000-08-23
US	50523389	RUBB396PT8T5E	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Fantastic series worth problems with 1st book	I don't want to put anyone off this series, just the opposite.  Be aware that Lord Foul's Bane is by far the least of the Covenant series.   Donaldson's inventiveness shows itself early on in the presentation of the  Land.  But his early clumsiness in ripping off Tolkien on a number of  occasions is quite distressing.  More bothersome is the extremely poor  handling by Donaldson of the rape that occurs early in the book.  The  characterizations initially are more confused than complex.   Donaldson  corrects most of these problems in the later books.  But the mother of the  victim, for example, is terribly written and totally unbelievable, lacking  in depth and in having inexplicable motives.  And Covenant becomes so  unlikable that many people I have asked about the book put it down midway  through Lord Foul's Bane.<br />There are other blind spots in this book, and  even a huge fan of the series like myself has to force my way through many  sections of Lord Foul's Bane.  But here's the point of this review:  the  rest of the series is worth the trouble!   By midway through The Illearth  War, any fantasy fan will be totally caught up in the depth of Donaldson's  characters and his unbelievable inventiveness.  And many readers that did  not believe they were fantasy fans will have their minds changed.  The  Power that Preserves just gets better. <br />If you can possibly put the  series down at the end of the 1st Chronicles, you will miss some of the  greatest science fiction writing ever, especially in The One Tree.  The 1st  book of the 2nd Chronicles, The Wounded Land, resembles Lord Foul's Bane by  being the least of the three books in the series (although it is much  superior to Lord Foul's Bane).  The One Tree has everything, from a hugely  complex and moving love story, to some of the best plot twists ever  written.<br />Donaldson is a writer that is worth the trouble of the first  book.  Those that dislike Covenant so intensely that you have trouble  finishing the book, I empathize with you.  But Donaldson will more than  reward your efforts later on!	2000-08-20
US	50523389	R2KVZU96NXGYW1	0375704825	636436418	To Lie with Lions: Book Six of The House of Niccolo	Books	3	4	5	N	N	What an ending	I love this series.  But I just cannot be very positive about this book.  It has more than normal of Dunnett's confused and overly complex passages.  And after fighting with the book it seemed nearly all the way, Iceland  offered potential for another of Dunnett's amazing climaxes.  But without  giving anything away, all I can say is I found the ending to be just  completely wrong.  Completely out of character, completely without any  sense, completely incomprehensible.  What a place to leave us.  Well,  Dunnett has taken us on the emotional rollercoaster before.  Has she just  delayed the conclusion to the next book...  I'll be reading it as soon as  she has it ready.	2000-01-23
US	50523389	R2LGRFA17243QT	0375704795	588892380	Race of Scorpions: Book Three of the House of Niccolo	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Plot twists abound	Dunnett keeps the plot turning and twisting all through this book; expect to mutter a number of amazed exclamations along the way.  She does all without losing depth or compassion in her characters, and without a speck  of lost credibility in the plotline.  This is a fascinating journey through  part of Christianity's most troubled history, and one has to wonder if the  series' setting hinges on the events in this particular book.  The  fictional characters are so real and engrossing as to nearly outshadow the  huge and wonderful historical setting.  An engrossing, moving,  unpredictable, and completely unforgettable book.	2000-01-23
