US	50547190	R1E7ONF8OG0WIH	067165988X	965057002	Dock Ellis in the Country of Baseball	Books	4	26	26	N	N	excellent insight into baseball in the 60's &amp; 70's, strange	Dock Ellis was a frustratingly inconsistant pitcher with excellent stuff.  He pitched for the Pirates from the late 60's to the mid-70's, moving to the Yankees for one last terrific season before a seeming lack of dedication/interest left him wasting away in Texas.  He had a less than glorious return to Pittsburgh in 1979 before calling it a career.  This is not your usual sports bio.  Donald Hall brings his poetic style to the narrative and Dock brings his own strange blend of stubborness,talent &amp; inconsistancy to the table.  While the book does hit some sluggish spells, you should be able to overlook its flaws to learn more about a man who pitched a no-hitter following a night of LSD (talk about performance enhancing), was maced by security before a start, made a surreal trip to Vietnam with should-be-Hall of Famer Bobby Bonds &amp; began one game with the sole purpose of trying to drill every Reds batter he faced.  There are also clubhouse &amp; field tales involving such greats as Gaylord Perry, Willie McCovey, Willie Stargell, Roberto Clemente, Thurman Munson, Reggie Jackson &amp; Jim &quot;Cy or Cry&quot; Palmer.  Dock angered many people during his career, but he was often delivering the truth in an absurdly blunt package.  This is not a great book by any stretch of the imagination.  It is, however, a very entertaining and revealing look at one of the most colorful players of his generation.  Ellis does not pull any punches on personal issues, but, unlike Jim Bouton, he and Donald Hall have gone to great lengths to make certain that their inside stories don't bring harm, in a personal manner, to those who played alongside or against Dock.  It is not a reckless tell-all tome, but it does tell quite a bit about the talented enigma that is Dock Ellis, who wore out many a pair of spikes loping from the penthouse to the doghouse and back again...and again...and again- ad nauseum. --R.H.Conner	2004-05-15
US	50547190	RTCL7HSV37RGK	1572435623	953217364	Unforgettable!: The Giant's Spectacular 2002 Pennant-Winning Season	Books	4	5	5	N	N	a wonderful keepsake for all Giants fans	Thanks to some ridiculous pitching moves(removing Ortiz in game 6. bringing in Worrell to face three guys who had annihilated him in the past...also game 6, not starting Reuter in game 7, sticking with Livan after it was clear he couldn't function within the established strikezone in game 7...the relievers only allowed one hit after his removal) the Giants ended the 2002 season without a world championship. We, as fans, did however get closer than we've been to seeing our team take it all since Willie McCovey lined out to Bobby Richardson, ending game 7, thirty years earlier.  We also get this wonderful look at the '02 seasons from the staff of the San Francisco Chronicle.  The book is filled with rich photography, excellent columns and pivitol boxscores from the almost magical season.<BR> <BR>  After the sting of defeat had time to wear off a bit, I was thrilled to find this book.  We can now relive the triumph and heartbreak of such an interesting cast of characters that includes Barry Bonds, Benito Santiago, Kenny Lofton and, yes, Darren Baker hitching a wild ride from J.T. Snow.  The photography makes the book worth it's price right out of the gate.  If you are a Giants fan you need this book.  Everyone gets his just reward in this book.  It is not a Barry Bonds extravaganza that happens to have a few other Giants thrown in.  They are all here, from Nen to Dunston, Shjinjo to Kent...they're all here.  96 pages packed with exciting photos and stellar(in most cases) reporting from the staff of the Chronicle.  The time line is a bit out of whack in sections of the book.  That is the only real flaw with the packaging.<br />  We have a better shot this year with Alou, a wire to wire division championship, a great possibility of NL home-field advantage, but nothing short of a title can surpass the thrill of these '02 Wild Card upstarts.<br />  My heartfelt sympathies go out to Barry on the passing of Booby Bonds.  He was a GREAT player and coach.  The loss to the cityof San Francisco and the entire Giants organization has been felt by fans like me across the nation.	2003-09-05
US	50547190	R1FZXIGULQWLIO	0810982005	995207544	The Autobiography of Baseball: The Inside Story from the Stars Who Played the Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	over one hundred years of oral history/ amazing rare photos	This is one of the most informative(from the player perspective) books on baseball I've ever seen.  Good narrative riddled with excerpts from interviews and autobiographies of the players who've made this the most beautiful sport around.  Highlights include Willie Stargell's harrowing brush with Texas racism in the minors, psychological terrorism tips from Ty Cobb, playing through agony with Gary Carter and Roberto Clemente, what if's from Judy Johnson and Monte Irvin and dealing with the loneliness of language barriers in a strange land by Juan Marichal.<BR>  Humor comes from a bit on illegal pitches featuring Gaylord Perry and Burleigh Grimes, as well as Joe Sewell's innovative way to deal with a bunt down the third base line...that one led to an overnight rule change.  There is also an amusing debate over who threw the first curve ball and how corn cobs made Paul Waner a better hitter.<BR>  There is also tragedy.  The Carl Mays fastball that killed Ray Chapman is dealt with in these pages.<BR>  The oral history is striking and wonderful, but the rare photos are even better.  Clear photos grace nearly every page, many of which I have never had the pleasure of seeing.  If you love baseball with even half the passion that I embrace it , you must own this book.  It's time to see what was going on before sportscenter.<br />  Despite claims to the contrary by previous reviewers there are no stories related by Barry Bonds and this book is not in chronological order.  It is, however, made to order.  Slip off the dust jacket and enjoy.	2003-04-27
US	50547190	ROF26JD3PZYOT	0762405732	709847106	The Quotable Oscar Wilde (Miniature Editions)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Irish wit runs Wild(e)!	Yes, this is a tiny book, but it is worth owning.  Wilde has issued forth enough wonderful quotes to fill a much larger tome, but, that said, this is a nice novelty item.  The diminutive book is packed with great photos of Wilde, the quotes that made him famous, as well as many quirky illustrations of the author.<BR>Enjoy these quips from the man who uttered &quot;either this wallpaper goes or I do&quot; as his final words.  I highly encourage you to also read Wilde's only novel, The Picture Of Dorian Gray.	2002-06-30
US	50547190	R68CSTUG1V0CT	0425183327	304004391	Zodiac Unmasked: The Identity of America's Most Elusive Serial Killer Revealed	Books	3	11	18	N	N	despite atrocious editing, Graysmith supplies the facts	Robert Graysmith and his ego-run-riot have written a decent sequel to 1986's ZODIAC.  The circumstantiol evidence against his suspect is overwhelming.  I am usually happy to play the role of Devil's advocate, but the facts pointing to Leigh Allen being the Zodiac killer are staggering.  The original Zodiax book captured my interest in 1987 and I was thrilled to see this book.  You almost have to read the first book to fully get into this book though.  Poor police communication and unfortunate timing on searches(not to mention location) have kept this case from being officially solved, but Graysmith has left no question in my mind that we know who was responsible for the horrific murders that brought Zodiac to international prominence.<br />  Graysmith is an excellent collector of information, however, his skills as a writer are sorely lacking at times.  He unnecesarily repeats information so often that there is no doubt that this book could have easily been a hundred or so pages shorter.  I enjoy long books(i.e.- The Executioner's Song by Norman Mailer), but I don't like reading the same paragraphs, slightly re-worded, over and over.  There is also no real reason for the inclusion of the ridiculous chapters on the two pathetic copycats in New York and Kobe, Japan.  While the presentation may be shoddy, the revelations in this tome are not.  Almost every primary detective involved in this case has reached the same conclusion Graysmith has...that Leigh Allen was the Zodiac.  Zodiac Unmasked may not be nearly as well written as Maury Terry's The Ultimate Evil(the most convincing and well-researched Son Of Sam explanation and book out there), but it is just as convincing.  I think the real reason so many people are unhappy with Graysmith's findings is that a multitude of amateur sleuths have just lost their hobby.  This case is no longer a mystery.  Between ZodiaC and the capture of The Green River Killer, a lot of West Coast junior dtectives have much less to investigate now.<br />  Zodiac Unmasked might not be written well and is horribly organized, but it is essential for any true crime buff with an interest in this case.  I would have preferred it if Graysmith had not felt the need to harp on his own importance in this case.	2002-05-11
US	50547190	R1NJ22BSXNIVFF	0802136974	69029112	Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life	Books	4	3	5	N	N	as I suspected, the myth &amp; the man were miles apart	Howard Sounes Buk bio is not nearly as detailed or as informative as his Bob Dylan bio, but it is far and away the best work on Bukowski I have thus far encountered.  The reason for the lack of access is simple enough.  A writer, by sheer necessity, is a solitary figure.  He must spend the majority of his time alone.  Most writers are also paid liars.  Also, given that most of Bukowski's early loves &amp; friends are dead, as is Bukowski himself, it would be difficult to come by much in the way of useful firsthand information.  That being said, I feel that Sounes did the best he could with what was available.  The Dylan bio would have more info just because a musician generally has to work closely with many other people.  Bukowski had only to work closely with his publisher, John Martin.<br />  I've suspected for years that Bukowski was about half the man he claimed to be.  Sounes has confirmed my suspicions.  He was a jealous, sometimes violent lover.  He was guilty of more than his fair share of back-biting &amp; backstabbing.  He wasn't even the constant drunk he portrayed himself to be(trust me on that one...there's no strike against him for that).  What he was was an occasionally great and always prolific writer of verse and prose.  Sounes exposes many an untruth in Bukowski's account of his own life.  He also makes available one of the best and most comprehensive collections of photographs ever presented of Bukowski, including photos of his chief muse, Jane.<br />I advise reading this book if you want the truth about Bukowski, not the myth.  This won't help feed any hero-worship.  It is well-researched and beautifully written in an easy, flowing narrative, not unlike Bukowski's sparse style of storytelling.  I had long believed that Buk was not so much hateful towards people and life as he was afraid of them.  Sounes appears to confirm this.  Avid Bukowski fans will already know much of the material presented within these pages, as few have detailed their ownlives in such sheer volume as Bukowski, but Sounes does an agreeable job of separating fact from fiction in Bukowski's autobiographical pieces.  You will not often be pleased with the liberties Bukowski takes with the details of his friends' lives.<br />Sounes one failing is that he gives way to the temptation to insert his own opinions of Bukowski's work and behavior towards the end of the book.  He does a better job of sidestepping this common pitfall in his Dylan bio.  He does seem to've learned his lesson after the Buk bio.  Locked In The Arms Of A Crazy Life is a must for any Bukowski fan who prefers honesty to mythology.  One of America's great writers was far from being one of America's great men and Sounes has certainly captured that fact and built his biography around that.<br />  If you are new to Bukowski, check out The Days Run Away Like Wild Horses Over The Hills, Post Office, Love Is A Dog From Hell &amp; You Get So Alone At Times That It Just Makes Sense.  The Most Beautiful Woman In Town &amp; Other Stories is worth buying for the title piece alone.  It was, in my opinion, the best short story he ever wrote.	2001-11-17
US	50547190	R2U1V66QV6VHCY	0802136974	69029112	Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life	Books	4	13	13	N	N	as I suspected, the myth &amp; the man were miles apart	Howard Sounes Buk bio is not nearly as detailed or as informative as his Bob Dylan bio, but it is far and away the best work on Bukowski I have thus far encountered.  The reason for the lack of access is simple enough.  A writer, by sheer necessity, is a solitary figure.  He must spend the majority of his time alone.  Most writers are also paid liars.  Also, given that most of Bukowski's early loves &amp; friends are dead, as is Bukowski himself, it would be difficult to come by much in the way of useful firsthand information.  That being said, I feel that Sounes did the best he could with what was available.  The Dylan bio would have more info just because a musician generally has to work closely with many other people.  Bukowski had only to work closely with his publisher, John Martin.<br />  I've suspected for years that Bukowski was about half the man he claimed to be.  Sounes has confirmed my suspicions.  He was a jealous, sometimes violent lover.  He was guilty of more than his fair share of back-biting &amp; backstabbing.  He wasn't even the constant drunk he portrayed himself to be(trust me on that one...there's no strike against him for that).  What he was was an occasionally great and always prolific writer of verse and prose.  Sounes exposes many an untruth in Bukowski's account of his own life.  He also makes available one of the best and most comprehensive collections of photographs ever presented of Bukowski, including photos of his chief muse, Jane.<br />I advise reading this book if you want the truth about Bukowski, not the myth.  This won't help feed any hero-worship.  It is well-researched and beautifully written in an easy, flowing narrative, not unlike Bukowski's sparse style of storytelling.  I had long believed that Buk was not so much hateful towards people and life as he was afraid of them.  Sounes appears to confirm this.  Avid Bukowski fans will already know much of the material presented within these pages, as few have detailed their ownlives in such sheer volume as Bukowski, but Sounes does an agreeable job of separating fact from fiction in Bukowski's autobiographical pieces.  You will not often be pleased with the liberties Bukowski takes with the details of his friends' lives.<br />Sounes one failing is that he gives way to the temptation to insert his own opinions of Bukowski's work and behavior towards the end of the book.  He does a better job of sidestepping this common pitfall in his Dylan bio.  He does seem to've learned his lesson after the Buk bio.  Locked In The Arms Of A Crazy Life is a must for any Bukowski fan who prefers honesty to mythology.  One of America's great writers was far from being one of America's great men and Sounes has certainly captured that fact and built his biography around that.<br />  If you are new to Bukowski, check out The Days Run Away Like Wild Horses Over The Hills, Post Office, Love Is A Dog From Hell &amp; You Get So Alone At Times That It Just Makes Sense.  The Most Beautiful Woman In Town &amp; Other Stories is worth buying for the title piece alone.  It was, in my opinion, the best short story he ever wrote.	2001-11-17
US	50547190	R3LNRCRNVU0BWM	068485256X	95652864	The Last Temptation of Christ	Books	5	13	16	N	N	an absolute triumph!  Kazantzakis' Christ feels real.	Forget the movie...Scorsese left out the balance and meat of this story.  He seemed to be going more for controversy than for an actual bringing to life of this book.<br />  The writing here is absolutely incredible.  There's a proper blendung of realism and surrealism.  I always thought that Jesus and the apostles would have been more human.  They certainly are here.  The book-long tortured, loving relationship between Judas &amp; Jesus is one of the most powerful presented in the history of literature.<br />  The book didn't have its first misstep until at least 300 pages in.  That misstep didn't last longer than a page.  I did find the actual Last Temptation, as presented in the book, to be too wildly fantastic to be believable.  It's easy to forgive that; this is a work of fiction.  Released in the middle of the 20th century, this book remains timeless.  No single book has done more to make me want to read more on this subject.  <br />  I did have one problem with the book.  It does perpetuate the myth that Mary Magdalene was a whore.  She wasn't, as almost all Binle historians will attest.  She was politically &amp; religiously outspoken.  That has earned her two thousand years of character crucifixion.  That said, The Last Temptation Of Christ is easily one of the fuve best books I have ever read.  Very powerful.	2001-01-14
US	50547190	R3U5JFXPMZGMRV	0375700331	407626807	Roughneck	Books	5	16	16	N	N	One of the most enjoyable Thompson reads available!	Roughneck pretty much takes up where Bad Boy left off.  It was originally published in 1954.  In Roughneck, as was the case with Bad Boy, we get a sort of creatively enhanced autobiography of the king of noir pulp.  Follow Thompson through early adulthood, marriage, fatherhood(his description of his own children is hysterical), hobo jungles and more.  He describes employment ventures that leave no doubt why he always had more ideas than time to write.  He goes through stints as a collector, baker, morgue employee, writer of the labor history for the W.P.A., etc.     You will love the story behind the writing and publishing of Thompson's first novel(Now &amp; On Earth).  The man was never short on audacity or irreverance.  Roughneck is an absolute page-turner.  Here's an added bonus for us Thompson fans...this book is absolutely coherent all the way through.  There are no lunatic throw away chapters in Roughneck.  <br />  If you enjoy the work of Jim Thompson, then you must read this book!  As it states on the back of the book: Hard times have never sounded so good!	2000-12-07
US	50547190	R1MKG4KVJ4JFD1	0451403703	558787958	The Hangman's Beautiful Daughter (Onyx)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	my first Sharyn McCrumb experience will likely lead to more	I had no idea what to expect from this book.  I ended up being very pleasantly surprised.  McCrumb clearly knows the Tennessee/North Carolina landscape which graces The Hangman's Beautiful Daughter.  Her literary paints and brushes are all in very good working order.  Most of the characters are very well developed.  However, the only real flaw with this book is that there are so many characters and sub-plots that depth sometimes has to be sacrificed.  John Connolly's Every Dead Thing had the same hinderance.  That being said, I must also say that both authors overcame that one shortcoming with flying colors.  This book is very well-written.  It's nice to see the female characters in a mystery novel receiving most of the depth.  Very refreshing.<br />  Among the wide variety of subjects tackled in McCrumb's novel are homicide, suicide, poverty, cancer, environmentalism, Vietnam war hauntings, pregnancy and, for some strange reason, The Judds.  It's a well-planned mystery that has the necessary ingredient for any great tale of the genre...the pace quickens drastically towards the end.  You can't put it down once you know the answers are stepping from out of the shadows.  This book is also genuinely touching in some parts.<br />  The Hangman's Beautiful Daughter is a well-crafted book that certainly deserves to be read and enjoyed.  I don't want to give anything away...so I won't.  That is all.	2000-12-07
US	50547190	R1DHTXQTFRKBYL	0375700307	149444482	Bad Boy (Autobiography)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	more of an autiobiographical novel than an autobiography	I don't think anyone could dispute that Thompson has taken many liberties  in retelling his own story.  Even so, the stories are well-written and  wildly entertaining.  The fabrications don't detract from the overall  enjoyment, they enhance it.  You find in these pages the roots of many  Thompson characters.  That is a large part of the fun.  The chapters are  very short, giving Bad Boy an addictive quality.  You'll likely finish it  quickly and wish that there was more(there is: Rough Neck).  Bad Boy is  funny, twisted, ugfly and occasionally tender.<br />  Jim Thompson created an  image for himself.  This is merely the autobiography of that self-made  image.  If you want more fact than fiction you should check out one of his  biographies.  I wouldn't recommend this as a first Thompson book.  Get  familiar with him first...and then check out this wonderful book.	2000-09-08
US	50547190	R2FFKOWMRMUMJX	0679424717	683194015	The Executioner's Song (Modern Library)	Books	5	113	120	N	N	harrowing, brilliant...the best true crime I've encountered	Norman Mailer's book is easily the best of the more than one hundred true crime books I've ever read.  The story of Gary Gilmore &amp; Nicole Baker reads like a warped American Romeo &amp; Juliet at times, albeit a white  trash version of sorts.  When all was said and done, Gilmore had spent 18  of his 36 years institutionalized in one form or another.  So Gary fought  the state of Utah when they sentenced him to death in 1976.  The twist is  that he had to fight to make them follow through with their threat.   Gilmore, as well as anyone, knew what prison was like and that he wanted  nothing more to do with that kind of life.<br />  This is one of the feww  1,000+ page books that left me wanting more when it was over.  Mailer had  access to virtually everyone necessary to pull off this monumental  undertaking.  The narrative is basically stripped of needless frills and  the author's opinions are held in check beautifully when you consider the  inflammatory nature of the subject matter.  Mailer also does an admirable  job of allowing Gilmore's victims to appear as human beings, not merely as  props used by Gilmore to achieve immortality and release.<br />  This book has  the potential to spark debate on a variety of newsworthy issues, such as  prison reform, victim's rights, incarceration vs. education, the death  penalty as a deterrent, right to die, etc..  Gilmore's case was remarkable  in regard to American Justice as we now know it.  Gilmore himself was a  complex and fascinating individual with underdeveloped emotional control  and virtually no social skills to speak of.  He developed into adulthood in  legal institutions and was woefully unprepared for life outside prison  walls.<br />  Mailer does not flinch or miss a single beat.  He simply tells  the story of Gary Gilmore and the story of the lives touched and/or  destroyed by Gilmore.  He does not take any obvious liberties to fit the  story to match his own beliefs.  I was not a Mailer fan until I read this  book.  It is one of the five best books I have ever had the priveldge of  reading.<br />  The movie of the same title did Gilmore a serious injustice.   Yes, he was certainly a thief and a murderer, there's no overlooking that,  but he was also an extremely intelligent and artistic man.  I also  recommend reading Shot In The Heart, by Mikal Gilmore(Gary's younger  brother).  It is a beautifully written book that fills in a lot of blanks  and generally helps to complete the Gilmore story.	2000-07-09
US	50547190	RVAOALO4JSP02	0965046990	859589449	Wild Wives: RE/Search Classics	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Willeford was one of the best at Noir	Originally entitled Until I Am Dead and published in 1956, Wild Wives'  only blemish is its ending.  I'm not saying that the ending is terrible, or  even bad, but it did strike me as lazy.  That being said, I can't find  anything else wrong with this book and everything right.   Willeford brings  to the table a sophistication and class that most noir books are lacking.   His knowledge of art, clothing and style strongly tempers his unforgiving  toughness.  I think Willeford was only rivaled in noir by Jim Thompson, but  I must confess that Willeford's stories are tighter, more concise.   This  edition of Wild Wives weighs in at a light 102 pages.  It's a fast,  exciting read and Willeford packs a full, well-rounded story into what few  pages he has given us here.  This isn't as good as Pick Up, which was  published in 1954, but not many crime books are.  This book, as with most  of Willeford's work, is very plausible.  It's a quality that allows you to  fall right into his stories.   Jake Blake &amp; Florence Weintraub are  great characters.  Despite their many quirks and abnormalities, Willeford  manages to keep them consistant through the whole yarn.   I highly  recommend this one, Pick Up and Willeford's memoir- I Was Looking For A  Street.	2000-07-08
US	50547190	RB87K7HWZIX9H	0679733132	631405199	The Alcoholics	Books	1	2	3	N	N	the master misfires badly !	While Jim Thompson is one of my favorite authors, even I must admit...The Alcoholics is absolute garbage!  The characters have the depth of a thimble.  The plot is so thin that it threatens not to exist.  The writing  is atrocious.  It seems like Thompson wrote this over a rough weekend, or  even worse...a dull one.  The story gets insultingly stupid frequently.  In all fairness, it should be pointed out that Thompson had ten  books(that's not a misprint!) in 1953-1954.  Included in that awesome  number were the classics Bad Boy, A Hell Of A Woman, The Nothing Man &amp;  The Killer Inside Me had just come out the previous year(1952).  So I guess  you could say Thompson had a dud coming.  Yeah, well...this is that dud.  Any prolific writer is going to have his share of trash in the vaults.	2000-07-08
US	50547190	R36HOW9C3WKL0E	0863276342	890323856	Irish Rebellions, 1798-1916: An Illustrated History	Books	3	3	5	N	N	a good primer for understanding 800 years of horror	Helen Litton's book is a good start if you are at the beginning in your research of 800 years of horror and abuse inflicted on the Irish people by the British government.  If you are already well-read on the subject, then  this book offers little enlightenment.  It is, however, worthwhile as a  visual aid.  There are excerpts from long lost books, lots of drawings and  many black &amp; white photographs.  This is a very thin book.  I recommend  it as a starting point because it is very easy to read and does not have  that text-book-feel that many historical documents are cursed with.  I also  recommend Morgan Llewelyn's 1916 if you are looking to spark passion and  interest in the Irish struggle.  Read that, read this &amp; then you will  have some background info.  It will help to keep you from getting lost in  the details of less colorful writers like Tim Pat Coogan.     Litton's book  attempts to be unbiased.  It puts some of the Irish atrocities on display  right along with the British crimes.<br />  By the way, what do they mean when  they say The Luck Of The Irish?  Don't they know it was pretty dreadful  until Michael Collins came along?	2000-06-23
US	50547190	RE72O68WAW5EA	068481112X	78419716	CULT ROCKERS	Books	4	2	2	N	N	entertaining &amp; enlightening- I enjoyed it	Authors Wayne Jancik(The Billboard Book Of One-Hit Wonders) &amp; Tad Lathrop have compiled a fun book of rock's lords, losers &amp; lunatics. While no one would ever agree on the list of artists to be included in a  book like this, these guys have done a commendable job.  Some of my  personal favorites include Johnny Thunders, Husker Du, The Replacements,The  Clash, Eddie Cochran, Elvis Costello, Gram Parsons, The New York Dolls, The  Pogues, X, Roky Erickson, VU, Tom Waits &amp; well, you get the idea.  Each  band gets about one to four pages.  There are plenty of black &amp; white  photos included.  There is also a list of what the authors consider to be  the bands key recordings.  I think you'll enjoy seeing some old favorites  in here, and you might discover some new oddities worth checking out.  The  segment on Blowfly is hilarious.  This isn't just punk/alternative  bands...it goes back to Robert Johnson.  It's always nice to see  Flipper(the band, not the dolphin) appearing in a real book.  This one is  not some cheap, rush-job production.  It certainly won't embarrass your  shelves.  Cult Rockers is not, by any stretch of the imagination, the  end-all/be-all book on this subject, but it is a fine one!	2000-06-22
US	50547190	R731NKZ1ZQD2C	0553380575	549305531	Sympathy for the Devil	Books	4	12	12	N	N	truth bleeds from the open wounds of this novel	Kent Anderson has given me what I've been looking for in a VietNam book.  It's as good as James Crumley's One To Count Cadence, butwith more combat.  Where Going After Cacciato wandered through a dreamlike, surrealistic  landscape, Sympathy trudges through the brutal terrain of realism.  Sure,  the facts are a bit off...but this is presented as a work of fiction.  It seems like that's the best  approach if you want to tell the absolute truth about some of the  brutalities of war.  The only flaw I found here was the small segment  dealing with the return to the States.  The prose flowed much more  naturally( as well as more believably) when Hanson(the lead character) is  actually in Viet Nam.  I already own Anderson's Liquor, Guns &amp;  Ammo...Sympathy has guaranteed that I will soon own Night Dogs.  Anderson  has an amzing eye for detail and handles dialogue rather smoothly.  This  one will knock the air right out of you, but when you get your breath back  your first word will be MORE!  Dennis McMillan has published some of  Anderson's work, deservedly placing him in the company of masters like  James Crumley, Charles Willeford, and other hard-boiled craftsman.  Anderson writes about war without losing you in the terminology.  There  wasn't a single part of the book where I couldn't figure out what he was  talking about.  It's as easy to read as it is ugly.  Crumley's  introduction is as good as the actual book.  He also lists several other  excellent books of the genre for you to explore.	2000-05-27
US	50547190	RGHP5XRH0X1KL	0448146401	889841695	State of Blood: The Inside Story of Idi Amin	Books	4	31	34	N	N	this is more like it! an insider exposes Amin	I have had an insatiable craving for knowledge regarding the bloody regime of Idi Amin.  George Ivan Smith's Ghosts Of Kampala was about as filling as a rice cake.  Henry Kyemba's A State Of Blood was more like Thanksgiving  dinner!  Kyemba spent five years as a top cabinet member in Amin's  regime...he knows what was going on and has no misgivings about exposing  Amin.  This book also has 66 b&amp;w photos inside, ranging from the  sublime to the horrifying.  Kyembe fled Uganda in May of '77, so the fall  of Amin is not included here.  If you want to know about the atrocities and  the day to day life of the man some called The Black Hitler, it's all here  for you.  Kyemba delivers the facts with both passion and urgency.  His  battle with his conscience bleeds through the story quite often.  A State  Of Blood is Kyemba's attempt to bring Amin's barbarism to the light for  international eyes to see.   If Idi Amin intrigues you at all, then you  need to read this book.  It will show you things that most decent people  would rather not see.  It's a well-written book.  It is also an addictive,  fast &amp; easy read.  You may not like what you read here, but you will  find that you must keep turning the pages until this dark journey reaches  its conclusion.	2000-05-27
US	50547190	R12UGM39O9MLC9	0316290238	741461517	The Collector (Back Bay Books)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	a strong novel about extreme weakness	John Fowles was way ahead of his time when he released The Collector in 1963.  After coming across this title in serial killer/true crime books over the years, I decided to find out why so many authors felt the need to  refer to The Collector. After reading it, I fully understand the  connection.  The Collector is a flawed, but brilliant first novel.  The  weaknesses of the predator and of the prey dominate the text.  Your  sympathies will be divided before they are finally erased altogether. The  two main characters have few, if any redeeming characteristics, which is  the element that fills this novel with gothic shades of gray.  The  Collector is easily realistic enough to be a true crime masterpiece.  Forget Kiss The Girls and books like it.  This is the original...the best  of its kind.  This one left me feeling cold and empty, not unlike the  feeling I was left with after reading Albert Camus' The Stranger.  This is  not a race against time mystery.  It is a delicate exploration into the  realm of misery and desolation.	2000-05-01
US	50547190	R2EO9UC50T8NK8	0876856067	778864058	Bring Me Your Love	Books	4	18	21	N	N	cool Buk novelty item	Bring Me Your Love is a 1983 short story by Charles Bukowski.  The story itself is above average for Buk and far superior to There's No Business, which is offered by Black Sparrow Press in this same format.  The R. Crumb art is very compatible with the tale.  It's the story of a man visiting his  wife in a mental institution and the conversations that follow.  Typical  Bukowski subject matter...madhouses, women, sex, booze &amp; not much hope  at all.  If your shelves are already filled with the real Buk books, I  would definitely recommend adding this to your collection.  Keep in mind,  we are talking about a fifteen page book here!  There's not much tohold,  hence the great price.	2000-04-29
US	50547190	R31PNGJFQRYZEP	0140067620	23111172	Lady Sings the Blues	Books	5	93	95	N	N	the good, the bad &amp; the ugly...beautifully recounted	I picked this book up because the woman's voice moves me.  I wanted to learn more about her; wanted to know where all of the pain and dignity came from.  I'll admit that I was apprehensive...I was certain that her version  of the story would be sugar-coated.  My fears were unfounded.  Billie  doesn't leave anything out.  She seems to understand that darker points of  her life were where the gift was coming from.  She candidly discusses her  heroin &amp; alcohol addictions, as well as a brief bout of prostitution.   She was as interesting as she was talented.  Hers is assuredly a harrowing  tale, but it is tempered with dignity, honesty &amp; intelligence.  She  possessed a wisdom that can only derive from a lifetime of tragic mistakes.    My one complaint would be that the disturbing chain of events leading to  her death aren't covered here.  But, alas, this is an autobiography &amp;  death can't really be covered in an autobiography.  Get her life from  her...try Donald Clarke's Wishing On The Moon: The Life &amp; Times Of  Billie Holiday(Viking/1994) for adequate coverage of her untimely death.   There is enough trgedy and triumph in Lady Sings to satisfy the strongest  craving.  Ms. Holiday &amp; Mr. Duffy educated me about jazz and its  lifestyle, but, more than that, they made me want to know more...to  experience more.  Lady Sings The Blues is an amazing chronicle of one of  music's most gifted and soulful human beings.  If you have the slightest  spark of interest, you would be cheating yourself by passing on this  wonderfully haunting book.  Billie Holiday saw that her story's value was  dependent upon absolute honesty on her part.  This book would mean nothing  without it.	2000-03-13
US	50547190	R26UA0B4MFIOIN	0446394386	819073870	Joe	Books	5	26	29	N	N	the title is the only forgettable thing about this treasure	If you are not familiar with Brown's novels, then I offer you my condolences.  You are deprived.  Joe is, in my opinion, the best of Brown's disturbing and wonderful novels.  There are no heroes in his books.  There  is also little in the way of hope and compassion.  Brown tells a wicked  story, rich with realism and imagery, like no one in the last half of the  20th century.  As a writer, after reading Joe, I realized I had finally  found a book that I could never realistically hope to rival.  Joe, the book  not the man, is flawless.  I've heard Brown compared to Faulkner, but Brown  has a readability that I never found with Faulkner.  Do yourself a favor,  get this book &amp; get his debut novel, Dirty Work.  There is every chance  in the world that you will then become a Larry Brown fan for life.  This  novel is desolate and grim, but something about his writing endears you to  it anyway.  With most of the great writers long dead, it's refreshing to  know that at least one master of the craft is not only still with us, but  in the prime of his life.  Joe will leave you aching and disillusioned.  It  will also leave you bleeding for more, more, more.  Larry Brown develops  his characters and plots better than anyone going.	2000-03-03
US	50547190	R2AFPC537GU8RC	0679732497	641034765	Pop. 1280	Books	4	11	13	N	N	debauchery abounds! a delight.	Published in 1964, Thompson's Pop. 1280 is one of his finest efforts.  This book is unusually lucid and often hilarious.  Thompson's humor ordinarily leaves you wondering whether or not he meant to be funny, or  whether it was mental illness that brought it out.  That isn't the case  here.  Pop. 1280 was obviously designed to be a black comedy from the  beginning.  Nick Corey is one of Thompson's best characters.  There is, of  course, the usual sex, crime &amp; insanity(and plenty of booze), but it's  unlike any other Thompson book I've read.  It's bizarre and intentionally  funny.  He's thrown a bit of theology and philosophy into the mix.  Pop.  1280 lampoons the back-biting, racism &amp; hypocrisy of Small Southern  Town, USA, where people only take their masks off behind closed doors.   It's an incredibly fast &amp; easy read.  If you need a break from  Thompson's paranoia and tension, well, here it is.  Pop. 1280 is certainly  one of Thompson's finest!	2000-03-03
US	50547190	R3CQI8OG5QK2U4	0440218829	298931176	Sideswipe	Books	5	13	15	N	N	why don't more people know about Willeford?	If you're wondering whether or not it is necessary to've read the first two Hoke Mosley books to appreciate Sideswipe...the answer is a resounding NO.  This was my first Hoke book &amp; I absolutely loved it.  Willeford  had an amazing gift.  I never found myself wondering where the story was  going.  It didn't matter...his storytelling abilities are that good.  If  the book ever seems slow, it is because Willeford actually takes the time  to let you become familiar with the characters.  Sideswipe is, on occasion,  ugly, but it is more often hilarious.  Willeford has a way of making his  heroes flawed enough to make them believable.  I will read the other Hoke  Mosley books, without trepidation, because of what I found in Sideswipe.   The quirks of Hoke, Troy, Stanley &amp; the other characters steal the show  from the actual mystery.  It's almost as if the criminal events were  created as a stage to showcase these bizarre characters.  The strength of  Willeford lies not in the story itself, but more often in the telling of  that story.  I don't like to give away anything in my reviews, just enjoy a  wonderful book.	2000-02-25
US	50547190	R5IKHU2M2CC8F	0440986044	874442703	Temple of Gold	Books	4	88	90	N	N	the disenfenchised have always walked among us	Being 29, I do not carry the bias of nostalgia that other reviewers may hold.  This book was published 13 years before I was born, but the subject matter is timeless.  There have always been(and will forever be) teens who  become disillusioned with life.  Goldman has created, in Raymond Euripides  Trevitt, a character with whom most of us can connect.  He doesn't relate,  or effectively comminicate, with his parents.  He finds it easier to burn  bridges than to appear emotionally vulnerable.  We follow him through a  tremendous friendship with a kid named Zock, several  girlfriends(relationships ranging from purely physical, hollow offerings to  that exaggerated brand of heartache &amp; tragedy that seems to've been  patented by teenagers), high school, rivers of booze, a stint in the Army,  college &amp; marriage.  We have to endure his search for the fabled Temple  Of Gold, helpless to save him the trouble.  There is more tragedy than  triumph, more sadness than laughter, more anger than understanding...in  short, Raymond experiences Life.  Reading this book,  I felt the sense of  powerlessness my own parents must have felt.  You can only witness in  silence as painful, life-altering decisions are made.  Wisdom can only be  found on the other side of mistakes and bad decesions...it cannot be  taught.  Raymond has to bludgeon his soul before he can mend it.  Temple Of  Gold is wonderully written.  It is realistic and moving.  If it lacks  something in the eloquence department, it is because Raymond is telling the  story...not Zock.  I'm afraid I've lost the thread somewhere in this  review...just read the book.  You'll be very glad that you did.  Teen-angst  isn't usually this edible in literature.	2000-02-12
US	50547190	R29W1ZIRMSS3ND	0679732470	497950725	After Dark, My Sweet	Books	4	38	38	N	N	not his best, but better than most	After Dark, My Sweet is one of the most coherent Thompson novels I've read.  Filled with paranoia, booze, hard women, crime &amp; treachery, ADMS is a compact punch that's set on stun.  It differs from most Thompson tales  in that there are no real throw away chapters.  His mental aberrations  don't hinder the storytelling, rather they enhance it.  It's a short,  exciting read that doesn't wander.  Thompson didn't always color in the  lines, but he sure did with this one.  All of the characters are desperate,  yet believable.  There's Collie, an ex-pugilist &amp; mental patient, Faye,  a widowed alcoholic, and Uncle Bud, an ex-cop with no redeeming qualities.   The only flaw in their well-planned crime is that they, themselves, are  involved.  This book reads like a super lightweight fight, you know...the  little skinny guys that come out swinging for their lives at the bell and  never stop until someone goes down.  I've read many Jim Thompson books and  I must say that only A Hell Of A Woman, The Killer Inside Me, &amp; Now And  On Earth surpass After Dark, My Sweet.  A fast read with few flaws is hard  to find, but this is certainly one such book. Thompson imitators always  fail for one simple reason...they lack the ability to bring an element of  genuine insanity to the noir landscape.  There are no substitutes &amp;  this is one of the master's best efforts.  There is also a decent movie  adaptation starring Rachel Ward &amp; Jason Patric, as well as Bruce Dern.   Read the book first for, while the movie is good, the book is far superior.   I am sorry that Jim had to suffer the demons that he did, but I am most  thankful for the literary results!	2000-02-12
US	50547190	R168NYGL6AXG3Z	0451162145	603909342	Koko	Books	5	21	24	N	N	the best serial killer thriller you are likely to encounter	I can count the books I've felt the urge to read twice on one hand...Koko is one of the elite few.  Vietnam vets go in search of a man from their old unit after hearing about a series of murders in the Far East.  Koko is a well-written, terrifying journey into the lower depths of hell on earth.   Be warned, this book does start off rather slow(I almost didn't keep  going), but the rewards are more than worth your perseverance.  It was  released the same year as Silence Of The Lambs...it is a superior novel.   The shared Vietnam experience of the main characters gives this book a  believability that is absent in many thrillers.  This is the first, and  best, entry of a trilogy that includes Mystery &amp; The Throat.  I have  turned my mother, old girlfriends, and other friends on to this experience.   They all thanked me afterwords.  You will too.  I was eighteen the first  time I read this.  I was twenty-five the second time.  Nothing was lost, it  was even better the second time.  This is a mature adventure through a  nightmare psychological landscape.  Do yourself a favor...READ KOKO!  For  Straub, this is the pinnacle of a wonderful career.	2000-01-09
US	50547190	R44J2RNKKWO0Q	0872861562	241806796	The Most Beautiful Woman in Town & Other Stories	Books	2	13	20	N	N	contains Buk's finest short story ever, but little else	Bukowski was a brilliant poet.  He wrote some very entertaining novels.  His short stories are the weakest medium for his art.  Compared to his poems and novels, his shorts are generally immature and silly.  That being  said, The Most Beautiful Woman In Town could very well be the most moving  and hauntingly beautiful thing he ever published.  There is no way to read  it without being touched by strong emotions.  There are some other very  good stories here, like Life &amp; Death In The Charity Ward.  There are  also some repulsive tales here.  Stories like The Fiend are hard to  stomach.  It's impossible to champion rape and child molestation.  Readers  with a history of sexual abuse should be forewarned, some of this can be  very difficult to endure.  The title story makes this book worth including  to your collection, it's that good.  This is by no means a terrible book,  but it falls well short of greatness.  Bukowski was so prolific that one  can excuse the occasional misfire.  Buy it for The Most Beautiful Woman In  Town, and then procede with caution.  Notes Of A Dirty Old Man is more  entertaining and revealing.  The storytelling here is very good, some of  the stories aren't.	2000-01-08
US	50547190	R3K2WG2N8WCK76	0375700293	932067568	Bringing Out the Dead	Books	5	6	7	N	N	great expectations were easily surpassed by Connelly	Bringing Out The Dead has catapulted Joe Connelly into elite company with the likes of Larry Brown(Dirty Work, Joe, On Fire, Facing The Music, Big Bad Love &amp; Father and Son).  Given that I consider Brown the best thing  going, that's saying an awful lot.  Connelly's debut effortlessly and  masterfully blends stark realism with dreamlike surrealism.  The effect is  stunning.  They say you should write about what you know...Connelly was a  paramedic in The Big Apple for nine years.  He has written about a  profession that few of us know much about without getting too technical.   He gives us the humor and horror in layman's terms.  BOTD is a novel about  an heroic profession, and yet there are no tangible heros here.  The inner  demons of the main character(Frank) surface to open up an ethical and  philosophical can of worms.  This is a dark and ugly story that has been  written with absolute beauty.  Pure poetry spills from the veins of some of  the most horrendous situations you will ever encounter.  I can't compare it  to the movie because I always read the books first.  The descriptions are  so captivating and vivid that I don't really see the point in watching the  movie...I've already seen one, raw and uncut.  Joe Connelly's second book  will be in my home the day it hits the stores.  If you're looking for  heros, then go buy a comic book.  If you're looking for a gritty, realistic  portrayal of hell on earth to allow you a temporary escape from your own  woes, then you're on the right track.  This is an excellent debut that most  authors couldn't rival after a lifetime of writing.	2000-01-05
US	50547190	R30DY9DG1KWN0H	0671020749	890233300	The A to Z Encyclopedia of Serial Killers (Pocket Books True Crime)	Books	2	15	15	N	N	decent cheap entertainment	As far as an educational/literary feast is concerned, this isn't much more than a midnight snack.  I generally enjoy Schechter's single-subject documentations(i.e.-Bestial, Deviant, Deranged....all very good books), but  he laid an egg with this one.  It is a valuable source for juvenile cheap  thrills, but as a reference guide it is severely lacking.  You would be  better off checking out M. Newton's Encyclopedia Of Serial Killers or Colin  Wilson's Encyclopedia Of Modern Murder.  The New Murderer's Who's Who &amp;  Human Monsters are also worthwhile, informative &amp; accurate books on  serial killers.   Don't get me wrong here, this is a fun and entertaining  book on the subject.  However, if you are getting your information from  this kind of book you are going to lose a lot of arguments.  There are much  better books on the subject of serial murder waiting to join the others on  your bookshelf.  All this having been said, it should be noted that I am a  stickler for details and could be a bit jaded from having read so many  better books on serial murder.	1999-12-28
US	50547190	R36T4OU1XQMZ5C	0312952287	148927712	The Man Who Killed Boys: The John Wayne Gacy, Jr. Story	Books	1	16	24	N	N	one of the worst of the genre	Having read between 60-100 true crime books, including three onGacy, I feel qualified to critque this.  The book simply skims thesurface in a shameful tabloid manner.  The two other Gacy books, Buried Dreams &amp; Killer Clown, were far superior in quality and mass.  Gacy was a despicable human being, but even he deserved a better biography than this.  This book doesn't offer much more than a few good photos.  If it's information you are seeking, then I recommend Buried Dreams by Tim Cahill w/ Russ Ewing.  Gacy wasn't a very interesting man to begin with, you could see through him like cellophane.  He was sadistic, childish, and ignorant.  I corresponded with him for a while and I would not only suggest skipping this book, but I would also recommend finding a better subject to read about. Try Randy Kraft, Jeffrey Dahmer, Dennis Nilsen or Gary Gilmore.  Now Ian Brady, there's a sick mind worth exploring!	1999-12-28
US	50547190	R3JKUBZDU63ICA	0876857268	793104406	The Brotherhood of the Grape	Books	3	7	14	N	N	stong enough to lead me to his earlier works	Charles Bukowski praised John Fante on his Hostage cd.  That was enough to capture my interest  The Brotherhood Of The Grape seems to do for Italian-Americans what Frank McCourt's Angela's Ashes did for the  reputation of the Irish.  It strengthens the roots of many of the  stereotypes.  Brotherhood was like a Jim Thompson lite.  Picture Vonnegut's  humor bred with Bukowski's negativity and you have a decent idea of what to  expect here.  It amazed me to see the influence Fante had on Bukowski.   Brotherhood is a fast and easy read.  Most of the characters are shallow  and pathetic, but so are a lot of very real people.  The book was well  written and very humorous.  It wasn't as gritty as I prefer, but it was  kind of refreshing to lighten up a bit.  His novel was good enough to  ensure that I will be checking out his earlier works.  I get the impression  that one should start at the beginning with Fante.  I was neither let down  nor blown away by The Brotherhood Of The Grape.  Others have spoiled me  with their toughness, but Fante is no weak sister!	1999-12-27
US	50547190	R36HZSBDHEKB23	1583220089	277736746	The Man with the Golden Arm (50th Anniversary Edition): 50th Anniversary Critical Edition	Books	5	61	65	N	N	this is one book that takes you all the way there	I don't know how I missed Algren, but I had never heard of him before I picked this book up.  I only bought it because of the title.  The darker days of my own youth have made me skeptical of books dealing with  alcoholism and addiction.  They never seem to get it right.  This one nails  it, seemingly without effort.  Unlike other books of the genre, this one  does not romanticize the ugliness it deals with.  Frankie Machine's life is  a tour through poverty, loveless marriages, addictions and hopelessness.   It is not exaggerated.  This is what it's really like.  Algren's realism  and intelligence make this one of the finest novels I've ever read.  The  details are so vivid and accurate that one has to wonder how many demons  Algren shares with his characters.  The Man With The Golden Arm is simply  fiction mirroring life.  It presents a side of life that many of its  readers will never experience first-hand.  Of that, you will be grateful.   A combination of poor choices, bad luck, and lack of opportunity has  overwhelmed the characters so completely that most of them don't know that  they are already dead.  I am a writer...this is one of those books that  will always keep me humble.  For most, their greatest achievement of words  will never come close to to Algren's harrowing tome.  Do not read this  while distracted.  It requires your full attention.  It's that rich, that  brilliant.  This is not just a book about morphine, booze &amp; the  ghetto....it is a book of suffering, pain, betrayal, neglect &amp; spite.   Mr. Algren has been graceful enough to supply the compassion that most of  characters seem to lack.	1999-12-26
US	50547190	R41URB90B8HLO	1880985608	921218556	Go Tell the Mountain: The Stories and Lyrics of Jeffrey Lee Pierce	Books	2	4	6	N	N	the fire of love is just smoke without the music	This book looks great in your hands or on the shelf, but looks aren't everything.  JLP wasn't much of a prose writer.  His narratives ramble and falter regularly.  The stories he has to tell are worth hearing.  I really  wish he had had a friend who had some talent in this medium to help him  out.  The second half of the book is just lyrics, and, as far as a read  goes, that makes the back half of the book invisible.  He was an  interesting man.  He led an interesting life &amp; his death was certainly  premature.  This book is necessary for hardcore Gun Club fans.  There is  information, background, and anecdotes here that will complete the picture  for you.  If, however, your interest in the Gun Club is merely casual or  non-existant, then don't bother.  I wanted to know more about Pierce and  the creation of Fire Of Love, and now I do.  Unfortunately, one of the  things I now know is that JLP was very deserving of a biography, rather  than an autobiography.  This book isn't terrible &amp; I am not sorry I  bought it, but I wouldn't recommend it.  This one seems to've missed the  vein!	1999-12-18
US	50547190	R179MEYWA89BJP	0698104188	226278540	The Zoo Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	two out of three ain't bad	I bought this book because The Sandbox came highly recommended to me.  I also bought it because of Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?.  Albee's introduction to these three plays was insightful and entertaining.   Anything I know about Albee came from these pages.  These are his first  three real plays.  The Zoo Story is the reason to own this book.  Done in  1958, this one seems ahead of it's time.  With the exception of Who's  Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?, this could easily be his finest work of art.  It  involves a conversation between two men in Central Park, one of the  participants is a reluctant listener to the mad ramblings of the other.   What begins as an odd, unstable talk soon turns dangerous for both men.  It  is a danger that at first seems intangible, but becomes an overwhelming  presence...the focal point, if you will.  The dialogue is masterful.   Albee's uncanny ability to shed brilliant light into the darkest corners of  the human mind will likely lead you to wonder what demons lurk in the  author's own mind.  There is a genius and readability here that most  playwrites will strive for over the span of their entire careers and never  even approach.  It's that good &amp; to say more would ruin the story.    The Death Of Bessie Smith drifts easily above an undercurrent of racism,  pettiness, disappointment &amp; futility.  The actual events surrounding  the death of the blues singer inspired this disturbing play.  It is not a  pretty thing to behold.  But its subject matter is a very real scar upon  the face of American history.  As a reader, you will become as frustrated  with the inability to offer a helping hand as does the intern.  Again, the  dialogue is dead on.  It's a very good play, though short of the greatness  Zoo Story so easily achieves.   The Sandbox was a 14 minute play that  wasn't even worth that much of my time.  The characters were lifted from  Albee's The American Dream.  The symbolism may be very rich here, but I  think I prefer the characters where they were originally intended.  It's  too short, somewhat incomplete.  The Sandbox is the major flaw here.   Mercifully, it's too short to undo what the rest of the book meticulously  created.   All in all, this is a wonderful book that I highly recommend for  different reasons than the ones that led me to it.	1999-12-16
US	50547190	R3C78O1QXP2KAQ	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	3	25	29	N	N	completely spellbinding before faltering strongly	The Haunting Of Hill House opens with a very observant comment on sanity.  It's a truly great opening line.  Most of the book is superb.  In an age of gore and one-dimensional characters, Jackson's old novel is a breath of  fresh air.  Jackson creates an opiate-like dreamstate that holds you to the  plot development.  Unfortunately, this spell is shattered by the arrival of  Dr. Montague's wife &amp; her driver.  They are abrasive and crude and have  no place in the atmosphere created by Jackson's earlier pages.  Luckily,  they don't arrive until late in the book.  She had me completely until  their arrival.  After that, the story becomes disjointed and erratic.  I do  think this book is worth a person's while, though I don't feel that it  lived up to its reputation.  It was beautifully constructed...it just  wasn't completed in the same style.  It's sort of like seeing a wonderful  Victorian house completed with a tin roof.  It could have been more  appropriately entitled The Hauntings Of Hill House's Inhabitants' Heads.   The tension and comraderie between the characters intrigued me more than  any supernatural threats.  There are some wonderful insights to the human  mind hidden in these pages.	1999-12-13
US	50547190	RA8HCPFT7XHZW	0060140275	521036274	Ghosts of Kampala: The Rise and Fall of Idi Amin	Books	2	1	2	N	N	not much, but better than nothing	Given the fascinating, albeit monstrous, subject he had to work with, George Ivan Smith came up short.  The book is written with less personality than Al Gore!  Smith's writing is so dry that it is a struggle to wade  through the slower parts(and there are many of them).  Amin is infamous for  his insanity, his humor, and for his brutality...Smith seems to want to  focus more on his politics.  Idi's politics weren't very interesting, hence  the dullness of the book.  Don't get me wrong, some of the madness is  captured here.  The trouble is that Smith can't keep his obvious bias and  lack of comprehension out of the book.  Idi Amin was a terrible human  being, make no mistake about it, but Time magazine gave me more to hold my  interest in one 1977 article than Mr. Smith manages in this 198-page yawn.   Look elsewhere if you want to see the train wreck that was Idi Amin!	1999-12-12
US	50547190	R326JH8D7OTERG	1884615090	290549380	Any Rough Times Are Now Behind You: Selected Poems and Writing : 1979-1995	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a wonderful surprise for poetry fans	I bought this book because I love Alvin's music.  After reading it, I am now a bigger fan of his poetry.  Any Rough Times is filled which rich imagery, both geographically and emotionally.  Alvin's style is simple and  effective.  You can certainly see a Bukowski influence at work here.  It is  only an influence, not actual imitation.  Alvin's voice is his own, there  is nothing awkward or forced about it.  If you enjoy his music, you will  enjoy this book.  His gift for vivd storytelling that brings you to his  emotional state of mind is present in Any Rough Times.  It's not unlike a  literary VH1's Behind The Music without the tabloid feel.  It allows you to  delve deeper into the man than the confines of song structure will allow.   This isn't a book of lyrics(so many songwriter's seem to think it's  necessary to sell you an extended lyric sheet under the guise of poetry),  it's a photo album, created with words, filled with snapshots of one man's  moods and life experiences.  I highly recommend this one!	1999-12-11
