US	50541512	R3603FK58QCE2O	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Couldn't stop turning the pages.	This book immediately pulled me in.  I couldn't stop turning the pages.  For light fiction, the characters were delightfully multi-dimmensional - I cared about what happened to them.  Most of all, the action and pace of the story made it hard to put the book down.  One scene - four teenage American boys with shotguns face down 100 mercenaries.  Maybe not smart, but definitely heroic.   Anyway, I highly recommend this book - it's a lot of fun.	2003-12-19
US	50541512	RZSQ2Y8CNIMDE	0761121323	874075168	What to Expect When You're Expecting	Books	5	0	4	N	N	All you need to know, Not too scary	This review is in response to the many negative reviews for this book.  I read this book for a class that I took in university, as I am studying child and family studies.  My professor and many of the students agreed that the best thing about this book is everything is in it.  It says almost everything you need to know.  The downside is that everything is in it.  It says everything that can possibly go wrong.  But here's some very good news.  This book is organized in a way so that you can select information.  You don't have to read the whole book, so you don't need to read all of the negativities and be worried.  Just read what interests you the most.  In fact, it also tells you some worry wart advice and wives tales that you should not listen to (Such as how well you're \\"carrying\\" or fainting \\"spells\\").  <br />Besides, why get several books about pregnancy when you can find all of the information in one book? (I like this book a lot better than that \\"Weekly Guide\\".  Monthly guides are better.) This book tells everything from choosing a practitioner to the steps of labor.  You can just look at the sample pages in this store.  The pregnancy diet, your monthly check ups, weith gain, twins, intimacy issues, safe exercises, not to mention morning sickness, fatigue, dizziness, blood pressure, you name it and it's here.  One thing that I especially love about this book is that it explains how not every pregnancy is the same, so no woman goes through the same feelings or issues.  There's even helpful information for fathers.  It tells you loads of information about labor and delivery, including caesareans, pain medications, and labor induction.  It tells you about postpartum and breastfeeding.  Don't listen to what one reviewer said about breastfeeding.  The book doesn't say that you're selfish if you don't breastfeed.  It says that the reason why breastfeeding is so popular nowadays is that women know breastfeeding is better for themselves and their babies(read that whole section to see what I mean).  You might not want to read the section about illness during pregnancy, since it says just about every possible illness anyone can get.  But it also says what you should know about using medicine or herbal remedies.  There is information that can make you scared, but can also be important to know about, such as ectopic pregnancies, possible risks to premature births, miscarriages, and even pregnancy loss.  I think that what shows how caring the authors of the book really are is the section about coping with the unlikely event of death to the born child.  Even though some of the information is scary, does book does explain that many pregnancy problems are uncommon.  It also lists information about childbirth organizations, finding a doula, and finding different types of obstricians.  <br />I highly recommend this book whether you are an expecting mother or a student in the field, like me.  Read it while enrolled in a childbirth class.  Read a lot, but be selctive.	2003-10-20
US	50541512	R2ZMXBSMUFOTUC	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Grown Up Story	In response to some mild criticisms of the Order of the Phoenix, I think that the reader should understand this:  While Harry is growing, so is the story.  The story has taken higher grounds than ever before.  Before we saw Harry fighting basilisks, dragons, trolls, and all manner of monsters.  In the Order of the Phoenix, the battles have become personal.  Harry is fighting his own anger, his inner emotional battle with others.  Most of the conflict loops around the dreadful Professor Umbridge.  Sometimes the reader cringes with Harry's pain.  You end up feeling both sorry for and angry with Harry.  The conflict intensifies as the plot thickens.  Another sign of the maturation of the story is the growing good vs. evil theme.  We all know that Voldemort is evil and those on Dumbledore's side are good.  But the book also reveals how even good people make serious mistakes and sometimes seemingly evil people have a soft side to them.  We learn more about Sirius Black and James Potter and the conflict with Snape.  The reader may be left crying in the end.  It also becomes very exciting in the end with the Department of Mysteries, where the answer to many mysteries comes.  <br />My overall point is that what makes the Order of the Phoenix so good is that the story has really grown.  It's not a child's story.  It's a new awakening of life.  For that reason, I encourage people to read it.  <br />Another thing that fascinates me with this book is how the characters shine.  Hermione is so Hermione.  The Slytherins are all brats again.  Umbridge has no soft side to her.  She rudely interupts, she dresses and talks girlishly, she's racist, she loves seeing pain.  Then again, it goes to show how even people who aren't Death Eaters can be just as evil.  Harry has really grown in the end.<br />I am a college student and I've seen the problem where other girls my age say that they don't want to read the book because it's so long.  Anyone in that age group should be aware that legnth doesn't matter; this is a very easy read.  I read this book in only two weeks and if it weren't for my college classes I would have read it even faster.  The main reason why I got into my college budget to buy it is that I was jealous of those who had finished reading within two days.  Besides, once you've read the first three shorter books, you'll be left in suspense for what comes next.  You're missing out on a lot if you don't read these five wonderful books.<br />I look forward to what happens next in the battle against Voldemort.	2003-09-02
US	50541512	RBJSUYP9SCEJ5	0395137144	570245769	Adventures of the Greek Heroes	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Good, but has the stories wrong.	I read this book when I was in middle school and really wanted to read a book about Greek mythology because that was my main interest back then.  I read this book and enjoyed it, despite its childish narration(a bit more fit for six year olds).  However, I was disappointed when I did further research and discovered that many of the myths were wrong in this book.  For one thing, in this book, when man disregarded the gods, the gods took fire from mankind and Prometheus took the fire from the gods to return to men, but as punishment he was chained to a rock.  Well, anyone who knows mythology well enough knows that Prometheus actually stole fire to introduce to mankind and was honored, but later punished because he made it so that the gods got the worst of the sacrifice.  In addition, the book doesn't say that Hercules performed his labors for the king because of Hera's jealousy.  Instead, it makes it seem like the gods sentanced Hercules to work for the king for no reason at all.  I was also ticked off by the puny, unecessary dialogue and the fact that the Latin equivalents of the Greek gods were used instead of the real Greek names(such as Minerva instead of Athena).  Now, for some postivie info, it does at least have some good illustrations and most of the stories actually were right.  I must admit it did a fairly good job at telling the stories of Perseus, Orpheus, and Theseus.  I would for sure not recommend this book if you're looking for an introduction to Greek mythology.  Instead, I recommend checking out Microsoft Encarta Encyclopedia(with plenty of articles on Greek myths) and \\"D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths\\".  If you'd like to read this book, better to go for the library than to buy it.	2002-08-16
US	50541512	R3JJ6U0WVO9JUO	0871293277	168259266	Reginald Rose's Twelve Angry Men: A Play in Three Acts	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Just brilliant.  Be sure to check it out.	\\"12 Angry Men\\" was the last play I read in my Drama Literature class.  It is very well worth reading because of its brilliance.  It is a play that you should either read or watch performed, whether it's the television version or the play version.  The reasons are these:<br />1. The story centers around twelve jurors who consist of ordinary people who must decide whether to vote the defendent as guilty or innocent.  They must decide carefully, though, because if they vote guilty, they might send an innocent person to death, but if they vote not guilty, they might send a murderer out on the streets.  The whole plot and story is a very good look at our justice system. <br />2. The characters are well developed, realistic, and interact together very well.  You never do know the names of the characters, but you do get to see the ways they interact together, whether they are sympathetic or stubborn, or whether they seek justice or have no mercy.  Some are passive, some are angressive, and some are young, some are old, and some are rich, some are poor.<br />3. Themes of this play include stubborness, standing alone, conflicting personalities, common sense, and anger.  Common sense is an especially significant theme with the way the jurors study whether the evidence is reasonable and make their arguements over it.<br />4. The story, simple setting, and believeable characters work out very well.  It's not dull, and in contrary it's very interesting.<br />All in all, this play is well worth picking up or seeing performed.  Please don't miss out on this cleverly written play.	2002-02-01
US	50541512	R2TYMIHZAMC3H0	0198602545	658550121	Oxford Pocket Irish Dictionary (English and Irish Edition)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	If you're learning Gaelic, you'll need this.	The Oxford Irsih pocket dictionary is one of the best sources for learning Gaelic. Not only does it provide a very wide range of Irish vocabulary, it explains pronounciation and grammer, such as past and present tense, plurals, verbs, nouns, and independents and dependents. It is a very good companion for learning Irish courses, and I found it to be especially helpful with the Michael O'Siadhaill Learning Irish Course. In fact, this dictionary provides more information and references than any on-line course I've every seen. It's probably one of the best Oxford has to offer because it has more helpful information about the Irish language than the Oxford Spanish dictionary has about the Spanish language, as I have also been learning Spanish. So anyone learning the Irish language will find it much easier with this minidictionary.<br />In response to these negative reviews, this dictionary does have pronounciation tips. It does not have as much information as pronouncing as language courses do, but remember that the purpose of learning language dictionaries is NOT to teach you the entire language, but to accompany the language course. Look in the beginning of the book and see the pronounciation guide, but also take a course, like the Michael O'Siadhiall Learning Irish Course.	2001-06-02
US	50541512	R10TBDFSSX9LKQ	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	79	82	N	N	A part of Harry Potter we didn't know.	No Harry Potter fan can be without these little books.  Both of the books are modeled after the textbooks mentioned in the series and are written by the great authors Kennilworthy Whisp and Next Salamander(but with the help of JK Rowling).  They also have a foreward by Dumbledore, in which Dumbledore explains that the purpose of releasing the books for muggles is to raise money for charity.  Any muggle will have fun reading all of the many sections of these books about Quidditch and magical beasts.  The Fantastic Beasts book, which I have read the most, is is a very good branch of Rowling's imagination.  It talks about many different creatures, both dangerous and peaceful.  Harry and Ron have written many notes in the book, some relating to the Chudley Cannons, some about Hagrid's love of monsters, and many about what they learned from facing monsters(they can confirm that there are giant spiders in Scotland).  The other book is taken from the Hogwarts library, and we can tell that all of the Quidditch players have used this book often.  It describes the history of Quidditch, the rules, the ancient forms of Quidditch, and the popularity of the game.  It's pretty amazing what one can learn from these books.  We learn that dodos aren't really extinct, but are magical birds that disappear from muggle sight.  We learn that fairies lay eggs and grow in cocoons.  We learn that America, Quodpot is more popular than Quidditch.  We also learn the ten most common fouls of the seven hundred fouls that exist.  We can even learn how many dollars Galleons are equivilent to.  These books help us learn a part of the Harry Potter books we didn't know.  Anyone impatient for the next book in the series will find relief here.  I can assure you will love laughing at the cute humor.  I hope for more text books in the future!	2001-03-24
US	50541512	R1LAMTHIAL64QM	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	So precious!  A book to cherish.	I have read this book twice, first in 8th grade in middle-school, and again last year, when I was a sophmore in high school.  I admit that the first time I read it I was a little biased.  I didn't understand the meaning of many words, didn't like the vulger language, and found it to be tedious.  But after two years I read this book again and now I can forgive myself for my misunderstanding.  I was older and more eduacted, so I understood the language better.  And I was very quickly captivated by the images of the children.  To see young children in their activities, slang conversations, and wild imaginations made the story comical, adoreable, and fun.  The book broadens its descriptions and paints a picture of the whole town.  Rich details are given of social status, law, eduaction, community, and relations in the town.  The time period is the Great Depression and the setting is Alabama, which is a perfect setting indeed!  The poverty of the land and pride of the south is so well percieved.  Every major and minor character has importance and a well drawn characterization.  This book goes into great depth in human nature and behavior.  We see the tenderness and kind loving qualities of many people, but then in some people we see aggresion, slothfulness, and extreme prejudice.  There are many prejudices in the whole story, which relate to racism, but also judging others by stereotypes.  If there was ever such a book that gave the most powerful message on prejudice, this is the book, &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot;.  Mockingbirds bring such beauty and joy to the world through their songs and wouldn't it be so harsh to kill one?  As a satire on society, a messeage on life, and vision of human beings alike, &quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot;, is a beautiful story of humor, happiness, sadness, and all emotions.  This a must read!	2001-01-26
US	50541512	R12KHVKD5VEPFA	0679734775	644788834	The House on Mango Street	Books	5	373	398	N	N	A wonderful underated book?  Let me explain the meaning....	I read some reviews for this book and I could not believe how underated it is and how many people didn't understand it.  Some people say that it is just a collection of random thoughts, but that is not the case.  You see, this book a whole story and instead of having chapters of episodes, it contains &quot;vignettes&quot; which the dictionary defines as &quot;a short descrioptive literary sketch&quot;.  Each vignette contains an important part of the story.  The whole story describes the thoughts, feelings, and meories of Esperanza, an hispanic girl living in the poverty corner of the city, with dreams to escape her world.  At the same time, she grows up and starts to leave her childhood, while learning about the fears and dangers of the world she never knew of before.  Becomeing an adult turns out to be a hard challenge.  The first vignette called &quot;House On Mango Street&quot; is meant to describe the setting.  The second &quot;Hairs&quot; describes the looks and characteristics of the characters.  The third called &quot;Boys and Girls&quot;  tells the difference between genders, which is important because the story deals with men and women.  The following vignette called &quot;My Name&quot; paints the image of self and the feelings of hope and the future.  Therefore, these vignettes are not mere collections of random thoughts and uneducated language, but a poetic story with a well drawn setting, characterization, and gripping tone.  Even though the story evolves around hispanics, this is a book for all races.  The poverty and dreams of home remind me of the experiences of African-Americans and Chinese, as well as Caucasians.  When I was in a Creative Writing class, we wrote many vignettes and if you are a student in Creative Writing you HAVE to get this book and share it with your class and teacher.  It will help you understand the importance writing free verses, for this is the best example of vignettes I have ever seen.  The voice of the author does not sound profesional or too fancy, but like the ordinary words people say today.  it is a story of our time and a tale for all.  My only complaint is that it was too short!  I wanted to know more about what Esperanza does and her wishes.  I also wanted to know what happened to her after the story.  Even so, it is pretty plain to see that Esperanza learned how to escape from her cruel world, unlike the people who never knew where she went.  I haven't seen such an exquisite story of our modern times since I read the &quot;Joy Luck Club&quot;  about two years ago.  If you want to read a beautiful story about growing up, living life, and with musical poetry, you must read this book.	2001-01-24
US	50541512	R3MVVVD9Q6WVPJ	0804106304	31287929	The Joy Luck Club	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Simply wonderful	This is a purely enticing book and not by any means overated!  It has a very simple subject; the relationships between Chinese women and their American born daughters.  The story goes into much depth as it illustrates the modern domestic lives of Americans and the old traditions of China more than a generation ago.  Every character is important and well developed with every emotion, thought, and quality.  Words can't describe the many ways the passions touch the reader, both sad, happy, and angry ones.  All of the many conflicts and histories that surround that characters touch the reader so much that you read on and on, wondering what could take place next.  I also really adored the whole narrating style of the book.  Each character's story is so vivid and precise, and every story is choronicled so well.  Every event will either bring tears or warm up your heart.  There are also the important lessons that relate both to the old ways and the new ways.  Oh, there are so many elements in this book that touch the heart of the reader, but perhaps what affects the reader the most is the way that these mothers and daughters, though once conflicting and rivalous, come to understand one another when they hear the stories they never listned to before.  Their stories contain both bright and dark moments, that not only allow the characters to see one another, but also allow the reader to have compassion for all.  It is very rare that one will ever find a book so perfect in story, characters, tone, setting, and every other characteristic in a book.  This is a book that you don't want to miss out on.  The only reason I have limited how well I can describe this book is because you have to read it yourself to know all of the many great elements.  THIS IS A PURE MUST!  I can assure you that this book in not in anyway overated.	2000-11-19
US	50541512	R30JQKA7CW7AW5	068807510X	474714897	The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Really fun, even for a girl.	I read this book when I was almost fourteen, just an ordinary modern teenage girl.  But any one can read Tom Sawyer and really love it.  It has many MANY a funny part. Tom has many fun times with his friends and their imaginations have no limit.  The reader gets to learn about boys and girls(mostly boys) that lived more than a hundred years ago.  What really appealed to me was the fact that the lives and minds of children then are not too different from children today.  Kids today are obsessed with television.  Kids back then were obsessed with books and too commonly took make believe for reality.  They played tricks on one another and commonly bugged adults or the opposite gender.  Often times, they were very superstitous and strongly believed in ghosts and magic.  The reader is also swept away by the many adventures of Tom and his friends.  Many of their adventures are a part of imagination, pretending to be pirates or Robin Hood.  But Tom and Huck do get to have a few real adventures, specifically with the murderer, caves, and river island.  The story doesn't have much of a plot or significance, but that is the way it was meant to be, for the story is funny and tickles the reader.  It satires and plays with life.  I highly recommend it to everyone, for it is important to know the relationship between our time and the past, boys and girls, youth and adults, the mature and immature, and every opposite.  Enjoy!	2000-11-19
US	50541512	R3B3OQRRG446A9	0440403278	935109813	Number the Stars (Yearling Newbery)	Books	5	27	39	N	N	Very touching for readers of all ages.	This by the same author as &quot;The Giver&quot; and, though different in subjects, both books touch the mind and heart.  The story tells of a Danish family during World War II that works hard to in the midst of Nazis and to help their Jewish friends.  The book gives many accurate and informative details of life in Europe during the war.  There are many feelings and emotions: fear and bravery, love and anger, intelligence and empty-mindness.  It is very good for young readers, as it teaches all about the war experience and the many thoughts of the war.  I don't have many details, but that is only because the book pretty much speaks for itself and you've got to read it.	2000-11-11
US	50541512	R39KA64PDG9IJV	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Defines perfection.	This is one of the most poignant books I've ever read, and I read it twice when I was in middle school.  This science fiction book for young readers shows the perfect world of the future, and shows the many advantages and disadvantages of both perfect and imperfect worlds.  It chronicles the experience of Jonas, who has lived happily in a perfect futurestic community, until he recieves memories from the giver.  I don't want to give away too much from the book, but basically in an imperfect world there is pain, love, and knowledge.  In a perfect world, there is no pain, no love, and no knowledge.  Jonas starts to challenge many of the qualities of the world and the plot gets pretty exciting as the story advances more and more.  At first I thought it was a little harsh, but I later realized that the message in the book not only touched the mind and heart ofthe reader, but the characters in the book as well.  Both me and my sister enjoyed it.  It's very good overview of the world and life, and it's also a very good book for young readers.	2000-11-11
US	50541512	R3EVU833JYQKD5	0670532576	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	5	68	81	N	N	Poignant.  What more can I say?	This book, which was written in the 1960's, may have well been written today.  It describes the many conflicts between gangs, social groups, family violence, and friends.  I was made to read this book twice when I was in middle-school, but even so I enjoyed it.  Many emotions and thoughts surround the patrogonist, Ponyboy, who describes ganglife in the city.  The book goes into many depths to develop the personality and emotions of every single character, and even from the view of the main character, you know the intellects of every little character.  Every emotion is very sicere and well portrayed and not a detail is left out.  You get a good view of human nature, feelings, and life.  The story has a very moving plot that deals with family conflicts, murder, robbery, gang fights, friendship, social status, and loss.  It does well at alerting the reader of the seriousness of gang warfare.  Even though it expresses the many sad parts of life in the city, it gives a message that there can be hope and there is hope for those who have not lost the fight yet.  This is an incredible book and definately worth getting.  A must read!	2000-11-11
US	50541512	RMWUOBBVMCNAB	0440409713	685936724	Boys Start the War, the Girls Get Even	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A funny, hilarious rival!	I remember when I read this book when I was about twelve years old. It's about a group of boys and girls who move in and can't get along. They play pranks on each other and finally decide to declare war on each other. What makes the story funny is that the two try to play tricks on each other to make one side surrender, but their tricks never work out. In the end of the whole war, they finally decide, \\"Why waste our time fighting? Why not just get along?\\" The story is full of laughs and will make you think, \\"Why not become friends?\\"	2000-10-20
US	50541512	R2AVJ81HO3EXTM	0440407524	924940218	Shiloh (Yearling Newbery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	beloved childhood memories	Lately I've been recalling some of the books I read in school, since it will be only a couple of years before I graduate from school.  I remember seven years ago when I read &quot;Shiloh&quot;, one of the best children's books there are.  It's about a boy who finds a beagle and tries to keep it away from it's cruel owner.  I really loved the pictures of life, with good details.  It's about friendship, responsibility, trying to get along, and how wonderful it is to have a pet.  Your children are sure to love it and remember it forever, as I have.	2000-10-20
US	50541512	R1HFVSIM008DX9	0810919397	390794156	Animalia	Books	5	67	68	N	N	One of the Most Amazing Sights in books	&quot;Animalia&quot; is an illustrated book that brings you into a magical fantasy land full of animals.  It features brilliant pictures of cats, birds, mice, unicorns and all sorts of animals.  Each creature acts out interesting activities with gorgeous backgrounds.  I am now sixteen, but I remember when the book recently came out, some six or seven years ago and I was amazed by the many sights of this book.  Every page has &quot;tongue twisters&quot; for the letters of the alphebet, such as &quot;Crafty Crimson Cats Carefully Catchting Crusty Crayfish&quot; and &quot;Lazy Lions Lounging In The Local Library&quot;.  The pages also have pictures of many things that start with the letters.  The lions look at books titled &quot;Lassie Come Home&quot;, &quot;Let's Learn Latin&quot;, and &quot;Life In Louxembourg&quot;.  The cats where charms and sit next to a pond, surrounded by a grand horizan where in the background you see castles and churches. Myself and my brother and sister loved looking for all of the things that started with C.  We were also very amazed by the mesmorizing images.  These illustrations look very lifelike, in fact, they look very much like the wonderful scenes children see in dreams.  Reading this book with your kids is like walking through a great fantasy adventure in an animal world.  It also serves as an excellent method to teach the alphebet to children.  You will always enjoy reading this book with your kids and your kids will also enjoy reading and looking at the book by themselves.	2000-10-12
US	50541512	R3TIG3NG0OVMK	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Keep on reading.  It's getting better and better!	It doesn't take too long to read this 734 page long book.  It proves that the Harry Potter series is getting better and better.  The book starts eerie and tense, showing Voldemort from the muggle's point of view.  Voldemort makes very evil plans.  The story then moves on to the International Quidditch World Cup, which includes funny moments with the Weasleys.  Then the mystery begins when Voldemort's supporters and powers are on the loose.  At Hogwarts, there is the Triwizard Tournament, which involves an important character first introduced in Book 3.  There is excitement in each of the tasks.  The storyline and plot of the book is incredibly mysterious  and gripping.  All of the books are full of great mystery, but this is the greatest mystery of all.  What is the deal with Mr. Crouch?  Who got Harry into this mess?  Who's the bad guy?  The answers in the end of the book will surprise you.<br />The whole nature and portrayal of the book is what helps it become great literature.  This book prooves that all of the censorship against the books are not true.  The book never teaches black magic, but teaches AIGNST THE DARK ARTS.  The evil dark lord Voldemort, who murdered the parents of our hero, has destroyed the lives and families of many.  All lot of history on Voldemort is given in this book.  He and his servents casted curses that caused pain and death, harming very good people.  In the end, the evil dark lord destroys a very good person who you will love, and other good people.  The overall meesage is much similar to the message in &quot;Star Wars&quot;.  The tragic ending brings tears to the eyes, but helps teach the overall message of seeing what the evil easy way does to what is good.<br />While the book contains serious parts, there are many fun, exciting, and entertaining moments.  Harry fights against dragons, merpeople, and monsters(along with his worst enemy).  Hermione battles against servitude, which in a way gives a satiracal portrayal of activism.  Rita Skeeter damages reputations, which gives a satiracal portroyal of the news media(I love the way Hermione gets back at Skeeter!).  Fred and George make their plots, which gives another important message in the end: DON'T GAMBLE BEFORE YOU ARE 21 YEARS OLD!  You'll also grow very attached to the characters Fleur Delacour and Viktor Krum.  You also will get really mad at Cornelius Fudge in the ending of the book, because after all of the cool, exciting, and sometimes scary parts in the story, Cornelius Fudge ruined the whole ending, and everyone got mad at him.  Harry, Dumbledore, Profesor McGonnagal, and even Snape get mad at Fudge.  Still, brings much mysterious pensiveness as we wonder what awaits Harry in the next book.  Believe me, if you have never been excited for the next Harry Potter book, this book will make you really really really excited for the fifth book.<br />The only complaint that I have is that the title didn't fit the book that well.  The Goblet of Fire made it's big appearance in chapter 16, but from then on it was only metioned.  Parents should not be worried about their kids reading this book.  Though it does contain more tense and scary scenes than the other books, children who have read the other three books will definately be able to handle this book.  Besides, two important lessons tought in these books are maturity and how to face your fears.  Never be afraid of anything, for Harry is never afraid of Voldemort.  With all of the mystery, climax, and excitement, this is a book that no adult, teenager, or child will want to miss out on.  This is a one of a kind novel.  Get it while it lasts!ta Skeeter damages reputations, which gives a satiracal portroyal of the news media(I love the way Hermione gets back at Skeeter!).  Fred and George make their plots, which gives another important message in the end: DON'T GAMBLE BEFORE YOU ARE 21 YEARS OLD!  You'll also grow very attached to the characters Fleur Delacour and Viktor Krum.  You also will get really mad at Cornelius Fudge in the ending of the book, because after all of the cool, exciting, and sometimes scary parts in the story, Cornelius Fudge ruined the whole ending, and everyone got mad at him.  Harry, Dumbledore, Profesor McGonnagal, and even Snape get mad at Fudge.  Still, brings much mysterious pensiveness as we wonder what awaits Harry in the next book.  Believe me, if you have never been excited for the next Harry Potter book, this book will make you really really really excited for the fifth book.<br />The only complaint that I have is that the title didn't fit the book that well.  The Goblet of Fire made it's big appearance in chapter 16, but from then on it was only metioned.  Parents should not be worried about their kids reading this book.  Though it does contain more tense and scary scenes than the other books, children who have read the other three books will definately be able to handle this book.  Besides, two important lessons tought in these books are maturity and how to face your fears.  Never be afraid of anything, for Harry is never afraid of Voldemort.  With all of the mystery, climax, and excitement, this is a book that no adult, teenager, or child will want to miss out on.  This is a one of a kind novel.  Get it while it lasts!	2000-09-30
US	50541512	R3ML0TFJHDQI0V	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Different, but getting better and better.	Book three does very well at keeping the story moving. The mystery is a little different from that of the first two books,  and the developement in the story is not as fast paced. Even so, it still has a very good plot structure and storyline. The scenes get tense as you wonder Will Gryffindor win the Quidditch Cup? Will Sirius Black get Harry? Does the Grim mean something? What is the deal with Scabbers? Why does Lupin keep getting ill? and many other questions in mind. The last one hundred pages of the book are incredibly suspending as surprising facts are revealed and the Dementors cause trouble. In the end, decided that the third book &quot;The Prisoner of Azkaban&quot; is my favorite of the first three, not only because of the plot, but also because of the very great humorous moments. All of the books have funny parts, but the third book has some of the best moments, like when Harry goes on the Knight Bus and Snape finds the Marauder's Map and Hermione meets the boggart. The great quality of the Harry Potter books never does seem to die, not the story or the humor. Let us be positive that these books will always be incredible to read!	2000-09-03
US	50541512	R1WCEHHB5WSF8Y	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great plot and mystery, you can't put the book down!	I did not hestitate to read the second book after I read the first.  Like the first book, I became very quickly attached to the book.  The mystery  and suspense of the whole story grabbed my attention, starting with the  first two chapters, where the Dursleys continued their cruelty.  Then,  strange things start happening in Hogwarts and the reader reads on and on  and the whole story leaves you in suspense.  You keep wondering Who is the  Heir of Slytherin?  Why is Dobby doing this? and What on earth will happen  next?  There was one day when I started reading on page 254 and could not  stop reading until I reached page 327.  Even with the mystery and gripping  plot, it came to a very satisfying ending.  An important message also: do  not descriminate those who are not like you.  If want entertaining reading,  you'll find it right here.  If you have a kid who doesn't like to read,  reading this book will give a love of reading to all children who read it.  Lovers of mystery and humor will find what they want right here.	2000-09-03
US	50541512	R1VFI5ZCLLJ9X3	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It's unbelievable!  It's the quintessential perfect book!	Everyone talks all about Harry Potter and I wonder what it is about Harry Potter that everyone loves.  I decided to read the book and I was taken to a far away adventure!  The whole style and language of the book was very  vivid and touching.  You have many funny moments with the Dursleys, but you  also go on adventures with Ron and Hermione.  You love Dumbledore, Hagrid,  Ron, and Hermione, but most of all, you LOVE Harry.  There are moments of  fun and excitement, but at the same time there are very tense and shocking  scenes, which makes you continue reading on, wondering what will happen  next.<br />The book also brings feelings that are hard to describe.  Being a  teenager, I have forgotten much from when I was young.  But when I read  this book, I regained my childhood.  I remembered all of the feelings and  thoughts a child could have.  Harry Potter has the qualities of a young  person, in which one can be confused, but also brave and strong.  Reading  this book brings much hope and courage for the reader as well.<br />ALL ages  will love this book.  My father has been reading this book out loud to my  family and all of my family loves it.  We love the humor and I myself love  the tensity, adventure, and everythin else in this book.  We love Harry's  friends, we get mad at his opponets, and we share the feelings.  Wonder,  amazement, suspense, courage, and fun can all be found in this  quintessential book.  This is a big must!  You will purely love Harry!	2000-07-22
US	50541512	R2U50R4AZOUNAK	0613002784	359539547	Invasion (Animorphs (Prebound))	Books	5	44	47	N	N	I still remember four years ago....	I still remember when I discovered this book four years ago.  I was at the Scholastic Book Fair, looking for a book with excitement and adventure.  My librarian recomended Animorphs, and I got everthing a person can possibly  dream for.  There is action and suspense.  There are battles and fights.   There is shock and emotion.  There is the war between good and evil.  Then,  I was taken far into the air....  I was given the description of what it is  like to be an animal.  I felt the instinct, the emotion, the fear, the  suspense.  I was in a dream, a nightmare.  The book was full of vivid  descriptions, powerful emotions, and a thrill of adventure.  It is  everything you ever dreamed of.  You'll love it!	2000-07-08
US	50541512	R1ROM3SY2HYQVP	0590059475	605038272	Book of Names (Diadem: A Fantasy Mystery, No. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thrilling imagination, magic, mystery, and adventure!	My sister went to a Scholastic Book Fair and discovered this book, and like Animorphs, it brought the reader on a great adventure.  This book series is full of puzzles and mysteries, making the reader a part of the  adventure.  There is magic and wonder, fights and conflicts, and characters  that share the adventure with you.  The author John Peel does an excellent  job in developing characters and filling the atmosphere with imagination  and mystery.  Those of you who love the thrilling adventures in Animorphs  and Everworld will also really love this adventure.	2000-07-08
US	50541512	RR80IF85BSEJW	0590877437	28275338	Search for Senna (Everworld #1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A clever thrilling adventure!	My sister and I both being avid Animorphs fans, we didn't hesitate to get this book when it first came out.  What an adventure it is to read this book!  Five teenagers are pulled into a world that exists in your dreams  and nightmares, full of wars, mythology, and fairytales.  It has many of  the great qualities of Animorphs; suspense, extreme emotions, fights, vivid  descriptions, deep thoughts, and a thrill of adventure.  Along with these  characteristics are allusions to mythology, giving you a chance to learn  the myths of the past, which still exist in Everworld.  K.A. is a genious  when it comes to crafting books!  This book proves it!	2000-07-08
US	50541512	RSAFJIDJVYOY8	0590029738	35570141	Dreams in the Golden Country: The Diary of Zipporah Feldman, a Jewish Immigrant Girl, New York City, 1903 (Dear America)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My favorite Dear America book!	This is my pure favorite!  I love the story of the Jewish emmigrants and this book does it's best to show the many hopes they held in America.  I really loved the character Zipporah and the many other characters.   Zipporah was full of hopes and dreams, as well as worries.  The book was  very good at depicting life in America and describing historical events.   The storyline was purely amazing!  There was tension and once in a while a  surprise.  There were times that made me cry and times that made me happy.   The setting and details were also amzing!  Kathryn Lasky is even more  accurate than Kristiana Gregory(much more accurate believe me!)  This book  is very heartwarming and will take your breath away!	2000-04-17
US	50541512	R2QPJCB6FH143I	0590926675	748102792	So Far From Home: The Diary of Mary Driscoll, An Irish Mill Girl, Lowell, Massachusetts, 1847 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The first Dear America book I read....	....I'm glad I did.  This book introduced the features in this series, which include tragedy, friendship, hopes, emotions, and love.  This book tells the story of the Irish in America who went through troubles, but had  many hopes.  Some were succesful, some were not.  I love the language of  the book and it's clever craftiness.	2000-04-17
US	50541512	RFCJHZCP1MI8C	0590134620	915013123	Standing in the Light: The Captive Diary of Catharine Carey Logan, Delaware Valley, Pennsylvania, 1763	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very suspending	This book really amazed me.  It was full of so much tension and suspension.  The author did amzingly well with the story line.  She was also well skilled with the details and the characters, not tomention the emotion!  The message is also very clear and one can learn much about  history hear. I also really loved the personalities and characteristics of  the characters.  It's hrd for words to describe this book.  I'll just say,  it's purely amazing and suspending.	2000-04-17
US	50541512	R32L0SSFTO8O0S	0590149229	783956182	My Heart is on the Ground: the Diary of Nannie Little Rose, a Sioux Girl, Carlisle Indian School, Pennsylvania, 1880	Books	5	1	10	N	N	Depressing, but heartwarming	This is one of my favorites, even though it was a little depressing.  It depicted the hard sad times of the Native Americans and had some tragedy.  It was however, also heartwarming with the way it depicted friendship,  breaking the hate of our enemies, and goals.  There was even some humor and  happiness.  It was also very historically accurate.  Even though it is sad,  it brings some happy feelings.	2000-04-17
US	50541512	R3SXK11YWTZTVB	0590259881	987032837	A Picture of Freedom: The Diary of Clotee, a Slave Girl, Belmont Plantation, Virginia 1859 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of my earliest and one of my favorites.	This is one of the first books in the series I read and I loved it.  The author does a good job at depicting characters and emotions.  The story was excellent and often touching.  There was tragedy, hopes, and wonderful  feelings.  This book is very accurate in depicting slavery and oppersion.   It is one of my favorites in the series!	2000-04-16
US	50541512	R37YNV3QXDKYRJ	0590226517	798385289	Across the Wide and Lonesome Prairie: The Oregon Trail Diary of Hattie Campbell, 1847 (Dear America Series)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	The story is nice, but I was offended.	Kristiana Gregory writes a nice story.  There are statesments in this book which express many untrue ideas about Latter-Day Saints, mostly through the eyes of characters. I don't know why such hatred was used. Gregory's story does teach about sympathy and learning kindness towards others such as the Native Americans and thre elderly. Her story also illustrates the hardships and trials of the Oregon trail. I wish, however, that she had a better understanding of the Mormon trail and the hardships of the Saints who travelled there. Some information is inaccuarate, but on the other hand, most reviewers have overlooked that and focused on the sweet sense of the story and heartwarming tone of the overall message. It is a good book, though it does offend my religious beliefs.	2000-04-16
US	50541512	R2CSICGJCW8DT4	0711929033	167891632	Enya - Shepherd Moons	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great music to play	This is a really good music book. Shepherd Moons is my favorite Enya album and now I have fun playing the music. I'velearned how to play No Holly For Miss Quinn very well. This music is at first hard to play(which shows how advanced her music is)but if you stretch your hands and practive often, you may be able to play very well.<br />Enya's music is very well arranged.  The music often smoothly changes key majors and flows from measure to measure.  People studying music theory will probably like to look at this book and see Enya's structure of music.  Any critic of her music should get this book and see how well written her music is.  It's very nicely done.	2000-03-10
US	50541512	RDH2KNXMEDVWT	0452281253	325409950	Anthem	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good Message	I read this book not too long ago in school in my tenth grade English class.  I must say, this book is a great book.  I admit I thought some of her views of egoism were a little strange and somewhat rebelious.  However,  I thought it was amazing and it gave a good message.  We can't force people  to be equal, we should let people live on their own.  This book shows that  Communism isn't as great as it seems.  After all, Ayn Rand lived in the  Soviet Union and she knew from living there that Socialism does not help  individuals.  When she came to the US, she thought life is better here.   This book in a way also showed that we can still be equal as individuals  and not as one. Ayn Rand qave a very good message.	2000-02-10
US	50541512	R1RTQY3TEOZN1L	0446518891	330563468	The Mission: Inside the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints	Books	5	19	26	N	N	Accurate	Not only does this book have good pictures, it also has accurate information.  It is a good place to go to in order to find accurate information about the LDS church.	1999-12-11
