US	50543047	R3PJXYBNIK7VD3	0672326728	387194651	PHP and MySQL Web Development (3rd Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent Introduction to PHP and MySQL	Before reading this book I had an abundance of programming experience in C/C++ but none with HTML or programming a dynamic website. This book allowed me to quickly realize that there is not much difference between traditional programming and server-side web programming. True, one has to know a little something about html to present input and output,  start a session, keep track of session and form variables, and interact with a database, but aside from this the programming is much the same: variables, loops, control statements, functions, and objects. And may be the strength of this book is that Welling's and Thomson's presentation makes this very clear. The presentation is no more difficult than it needs to be to get a web application up and running, whether it is a simple on-line survey, or an industrial strength e-commerce site. I was almost alarmed at how easy it seemed to zip through the chapters, or skim through later chapters finding the right tidbits of helpful information.  <br /> <br />I found the chapters on MySQL very good, although I did supplement them with Parts I and II \\"The Relational Model of Data\\" from Christopher Date's \\"Introduction to Database Systems\\", as I wanted to have a slightly more advanced perspective on SQL database querying and a better understanding of what comprises a database system.  <br /> <br />Finally, I should note that a benefit of using MySQL and PHP is that both tools have very good online reference manuals that will answer questions about advanced syntax and use that is omitted from this book (although I must say that this book covers a significant amount of both manuals, and places them well within the context of actual website development).  <br /> <br />I couldn't have asked for a better book.	2005-08-17
US	50543047	R38941VJDRLTE0	0321197844	960449191	An Introduction to Database Systems (8th Edition)	Books	5	23	26	N	Y	the database practitioner's bible	I suppose there are two potential audiences for an introductory database book. The first audience consists of developers who need to know the very basics about databases to design and  implement a database computer application. For that group I would recommend Date's book, but only upon having sufficient \\"computer science maturity\\": i.e. having taken one year of programming, and possibly a course in discrete mathematics and/or data structures and algorithms. Without this maturity much of what Date writes will be very hard to appreciate if not comprehend. True, he gives numerous examples that are quite understandable, but he also spends many paragraphs discussing somewhat abstract issues to the novice that will make him or her want to skip ahead. A good example of this is the notion of thinking of a table as the current value of a relvar, or the importance of closure in the relational algebra. The paragraphs he spends on these subtle importances will frustrate the uninitiated reader.<br /><br />For someone who does not believe that he or she has the maturity to handle this book, and simply wants to develop an application that requires a database, I would recommend buying a more \\"down-to-earth\\" book possibly covering the RDMS that will be used. For example, if it is MySQL, then one might want to purchase<br /><br />Welling's \\"MySQL Tutorial\\" (ISBN: 0672325845) for a much gentler and user-friendly introduction (or better yet the PHP and  MySQL web development book if a web application is desired).<br /><br />The other audience for this book are the professionals who are in charge of managing a database and/or using a database server for an industrial-strength application. In this case, Date's book is mandatory reading. May be not all of it, but certainly Parts I-IV. Reading these parts will give the professional the needed perspective on all the considerations required for successfully using or managing a database system.<br /><br />In the world of database systems, Chris Date is one of the few authors who understands the importance of every minute detail involved with successfully using and managing databases. He proves that in this book, in a style that is not only academic but also quite useful and practical (especially his chapters on the relational algebra and calculus).Date is one of the few authors who understands the importance of every minute detail involved with successfully using and managing databases. He proves that in this book, in a style that is not only academic but also quite useful and practical (especially his chapters on the relational algebra and calculus).	2005-08-17
US	50543047	RIUYLFR6S3ZL2	0195099710	183590703	Evolutionary Algorithms in Theory and Practice: Evolution Strategies, Evolutionary Programming, Genetic Algorithms	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	scholarly and from a general viewpoint	In comparing this book with, say Goldberg's \\"Genetic Algorithms...\\" (may be the most popular genetic algorithms text), this book reads more like a German habilitation thesis (which I imagine it may have served as such), where as Goldberg's book seems more of a light introduction for the mathematically uninitiated. Indeed, Back's book seems quite scholarly with lots of useful references, and gives a good introduction to not only genetic algorithms, but also to evolutionary strategies (a paradigm that is most applicable to Euclidean-type search spaces) and evolutionary programming<br /><br />(simular to ES and not to be confused with genetic programming).<br /><br />I found Chapters 1 and 2 quite good, in that Chapter 1 presented the biological motivations for evolutionary computing along with a brief introduction to the theory of computation and computational complexity, while Chapter 2 gave a very good introduction to the above-mentioned evolutionary computing paradigms. The remainder of the book reads more like a report on the author's experiments in evolutionary computing.<br /><br />It is important to note that Goldberg's book does not cover Evolutionary Strategies, which I have found to be a more fruitful approach since it is specifically designed for Euclidean space where many if not most interesting optimization problems are formulated in.<br /><br />Finally, I offer bit of advice for those who plan to read through this book. Some of the definitions are stated with such generality that they seem very opaque upon first reading. It is very important to understand them, so do not give up! Once the defintions are understood, the algorithms will seem much easier to comprehend. In fact, the algorithms have a very simple outline:<br /><br />i) initialize population<br /><br />ii) while the terminating condition is not yet met: recombine to form new population members, mutate the population members, select the most fit population members to form the next generation.<br /><br /> The partial analyses provided for the algorithms can be skipped on first reading.r /><br /> The partial analyses provided for the algorithms can be skipped on first reading.	2005-07-19
US	50543047	R3N3QQOCEFG5JS	0201157675	306839947	Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization, and Machine Learning	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Not the only paradigm for evolutionary computation	This book gives a good introduction to genetic algorithms for a general undergraduate audience. However, it is important to note that it does not cover Evolutionary Strategies, an approach to evolutionary computing that I have found quite useful  since it is specifically designed for Euclidean space optimization problems where many if not most interesting optimization problems are formulated in (take for example the problem of determining the weights of a neural network that minimizes the network's overall classification error). Nor does it cover evolutionary programming (not to be confused with genetic programming). So after reading this book, I recommend (for the mathematically adventurous) Thomas Back's \\"Evolutionary Algorithms in Theory and Practice: Evolution Strategies, Evolutionary Programming, Genetic Algorithms\\" <br />ISBN: 0195099710  <br /> <br />Happy reading and enjoy the fascinating world of evolutionary computation! <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-19
US	50543047	R2X1G0GFJ7RWAZ	0136291554	618603318	Object-Oriented Software Construction (Book/CD-ROM) (2nd Edition)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	highly recommended as a first introduction to OOP	When writing a treatise on computer programming one has to strike a balance between providing a book that is both useful (which usually means writing within the context of a compilable programming language), but general enough so as not to oversimplify or truncate parts of the theory because it is not represented by the chosen language. In OOSC2 Meyer does just this, by providing a sound and general introduction to object-oriented programming, while using the Eiffel language for purposes of notation and practical programming examples.     Meyer has a very engaging writing style: very clear, with lots of good (and humorous : ) examples. And the Eiffel language itself seems quite simple, readable (it was obviously influenced by ADA) and brilliantly designed (think of Java, but with multiple inheritance, generics, and without the run-time inefficiency of the java virtual machine).   But whether you program in Eiffel, Java, C#, or C++, OOPSC2 has alot to offer in terms of OO software design, and a good understanding of the issues behind inheritance, polymorphism, the importance of static typing, and dynamic binding.     For example, I program in C++, and this book has helped me clearly understand the object-oriented features of the language, because in clearly explaining the principles, it helped me understand the intentions of the C++ language designers.     May be my only complaint, at perhaps half a star, is the fact that Meyer often weighs in heavily against other languages for their shortcomings, while going easy on his own Eiffel language. For example, he failed to give an objective analysis regarding the run-time costs of garbage collection. Indeed, the chapter on garbage collection seemed more of handwaving defense of the fact that Eiffel uses this technology. A presentation of run-time empirical studies for various applications would have been much more welcomed. However I believe that the benefits of this book far outweigh the occasional partisanship shown towards Eiffel. I truely believe that Meyer favors Eiffel because he believes in it more on the basis of principle than on profit (he does own a software company that supports Eiffel development tools).	2005-05-27
US	50543047	R2F26FDNJPJ84U	1584882379	563516106	Computability Theory (Chapman Hall/CRC Mathematics Series)	Books	3	20	26	N	Y	Not recommended as a starting point	The book is divided into roughly three parts: an introduction to computability theory, followed by a more advanced introduction to the theory of degrees of unsolvability and decidable theories, and finally some newer material on computation and structure.  <br /> <br />As for the introduction to computability, let me just say that I'm thankful to have already been introduced to computability via Nigel Cutland's excellent and concise text \\"Computability : An Introduction to Recursive Function Theory\\". Unlike this book, Cutland does not skip any of the important details (or have the reader fill them in with exercises). For example, Cutland acutally provides rigorous but intuitive proofs of the s-m-n Theorem and the existence of universal computers. Contrast this with how this book leaves the general theorem as an exercise, follwed by the sentence \\"But let us get back to more important matters\\". What I found remarkable when reading Cutland is that because of the s-m-n (which is trivialized in this book), Cutland rarely invoked \\"Church's Thesis\\" when proving the computability of a function or relation, where as Church's Thesis gets invoked in this book for matters as trivial as showing that computable relations are closed under the various logical operations. In short, by reading Chapters 1-11 of Cutland, the reader can easily (and thankfully) skip the first 8 or 9 Chapters of this book, while receiving a more complete thoughtful treatment. Yet another reason to read Cutland is his excellent introductions to both recursion theorems, where as in this book the fixed-point theorem receives one page in an awkward location in the book.  <br /> <br />As for the remaining parts, I made an honest attempt to read them in hope that the author's informal style of writing might shed light on some of the more complex results about degrees of unsolvability. And to his credit, I found the Chapter on priority and immunity more understandable than say what is presented in Hartley Rogers's classic \\"Theory of Recursive Functions and Effective Computability\\".  <br /> <br />The following editorial note originally enticed me to buy the book: \\"The final chapter explores a variety of computability applications to mathematics and science\\". Unfortunately this chapter seemed overly brief, and left me looking for better references. In short, reading this book did little to enhance my viewpoint towards computability theory. I'm glad the author is excited about the subject and wants to make the material  seem more appealing by trying to provide more intuition about the subject matter, but the way that it was carried out simply did not work for me. For the casual reader I recommend Dewdney's \\"Turing Omnibus\\", and for the serious reader, the books by Cutland, Oddifredi, and Rogers in that order. I often hear or read the claim that Rogers's book is \\"outdated\\", but it still makes for an amazing read, and is in my opinion still the best graduate text on the subject. Note that most of the results in this book can be found in Rogers. And for the programming oriented reader, the book by Neil Jones \\"Computability and Complexity\\" ought not to be missed.	2005-04-28
US	50543047	RCJOUYFNGCYOV	053494728X	254036315	Introduction to the Theory of Computation	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An excellent one-semester intro to theory of computation	The theory of computation represents a fascinating landscape that intersects computer science and mathematics and can be roughly divided into three overlapping areas: automata and formal languages, computability theory, and computational complexity. And there is enough interesting knowledge about each area to fill three books, each twice the size of this one. And because of this I find it remarkable that the author has succeeded in filling a slim volume with the essential theory and results from each area, in a style that not only seems very accessible and intuitive, but also demonstrates important relationships between the three areas. For example, most books on computability theory do not discuss automata outside of Turing machines, but in his book Sipser elegantly proves that the equivalence problem is decidable for deterministic finite automata, but undecidable for pushdown automata.<br /><br />Not only does the author have very good coverage of the three areas, but he also is able to strike a nice balance between mathematical rigor and intuitive understanding. His \\"proof idea\\" proof preambles greatly helped my students better understand the main ideas behind each result. In terms of coverage I found only a handful of introductory topics that were neglected: Greibach Normal Form, Rice and Rice-Shapiro Theorems, algebraic aspects of formal languages, Turing degrees, and perhaps context sensitive languages. With that said, remember that this book is just a semester-long introduction to a vast landscape. I recommend the following books for more depth: Peter Linz, \\"Introduction to Formal Languages and Automata\\"; Nigel Cutland, \\"Introduction to Computability Theory\\"; Christos Papadimitriou, \\"Computational Complexity\\".<br /><br />Another strength of the book is how the author distinguishes exercises and problems: \\"exercises\\" are similar to the worked out examples, and can be solved by following one of the presented examples, algorithms or theorems, while \\"problems\\" require significant expository writing and deeper insight. Most undergraduates should be able to handle the exercises, but will find the problems very challenging if not impossible, due to the fact that students at this level are mostly familiar with problems that can be solved in a few steps by following some algorithm. So these problems have the capability of developing student intellect, but if assigned in too large a quantity can break the spirit of the developing student. Have care!<br /><br />I congratulate Dr. Sipser on this fine book. May it inspire millions of readers to question the meaning of computation and explore its possibilities and limitations.s\\" require significant expository writing and deeper insight. Most undergraduates should be able to handle the exercises, but will find the problems very challenging if not impossible, due to the fact that students at this level are mostly familiar with problems that can be solved in a few steps by following some algorithm. So these problems have the capability of developing student intellect, but if assigned in too large a quantity can break the spirit of the developing student. Have care! <br /> <br />I congratulate Dr. Sipser on this fine book. May it inspire millions of readers to question the meaning of computation and explore its possibilities and limitations.	2005-04-18
US	50543047	R2Z4V4F9B9N0U8	0060784660	973829223	The Cumbersome Collection (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-11) [SHRINK WRAPPED]	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	I am fortunate to have read the unfortunate events	I must admit that after reading book three, \\"The Wide Window\\", I felt inclined to not read any further in the series. Although I found the first three books full of suspense, humor, and juvenile heroism I was being left with the impression that the remaining books would simply manifest more unpleasant ways for an evil man to harass three orphans and stick to their lives like a tack in a tire. But I persevered (well, ok, my daughter wouldn't let me stop reading them to her!) and by book five, the \\"Austere Academy\\", the author finally began revealing the underlying themes that tie the books together. And from then on neither my daughter nor I could put the books down. The later books continue to have elements of humor, suspense, mystery, conspiracy, and, of course, more heroism from Klaus, Violet, and Sunny. I also like the way the author introduces new vocabulary words and takes the time to explain them to the young reader. Speaking of which, these books really work well for people of all ages.  <br /> <br />In retrospect I'm glad to have bought the eleven-book set. Part of what makes this series so addictive for me lies in the fact that I want the orphans to reach a point where they \\"live happily ever after\\", but it seems that after each book they end up in even more danger than from the start, which of course makes reading that next book even more mandatory.	2005-04-13
US	50543047	RNJNW7CPBAW98	1555253458	475144122	The Psychology of Success: Ten Universal Principles For PersonalEmpowerment	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Somewhat superficial	I admire Brian Tracy as a motivational speaker, but do not consider these tapes as nearly close to his best work. Although the tapes give time proven good advice (you are your own boss, take responsibility for everything that happens to you, have courage and integrity, etc.) I found that much of what he had to say as one-line sound bites taken from other speakers (at least he does quote them). My favorite Brian Tracy tapes in order of preference: Psychology of Achievement *****, Thinking Big ****,  How to Manage Your Time ****, Psychology of Success ***. <br /> <br />I enjoy listening to Brian when at times I find myself lagging at work. Speaking of which,...well, back to work.	2004-12-15
US	50543047	R13UJ7UNUQEA2U	0471504599	473471644	Introductory Functional Analysis with Applications	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	The best undergraduate introduction to the subject	I can't think of a better place to begin learning functional analysis. The book is ideally suited for undergraduates or beginning graduates who have had one or two semesters of real analysis, linear algebra, and possibly topology. The author seemed extremely lucid with clear worked out examples. Phrases like \\"it's obvious\\" or \\"it should be clear\\" were not so frequent. It's quite a beautiful subject, with the last chapter providing a nice payoff application in terms of an introduction to quantum mechanics.  <br /> <br />May be my only complaint was that the exercises seemed mostly five-finger ones. With that said, they should still challenge an undergraduate or beginning graduate, if not force them to re-visit the definitions and basic methods of proof. <br /> <br />I've always thought Rudin's \\"Mathematical Analysis\\" book deserved the title of \\"Best Undergraduate Math Text Ever\\", but this book has made me rethink that position.	2004-12-12
US	50543047	R22YHRMD48SSKF	0060292830	604794436	Three Beloved Classics by E.B. White: Charlotte's Web, Stuart Little, and The Trumpet of the Swan (Boxed Set)	Books	5	38	40	N	N	The Triple Crown of White's Fictional Work	My 6-year-old daughter and I throughly enjoyed all three stories. <br />Most Creative Story: The \\"Trumpet Swan\\" because of the way White takes the reader to different places and settings through the eyes of Louis the Swan. <br />Most Profound Story: \\"Charlotte's web\\". Of all my years of education it took this simple book to grasp a real appreciation of nature and the web of life. <br />Funniest Story: \\"Stuart Little\\". Most of us have on more than one occassion laughed ourselves to tears upon reading, hearing, or watching some funny event. My last time occurred when reading about the trials and tribulations that Stuart had to endure in order to wash himslef in the morning (Picturing him swinging a mallot to turn on the hot water was for me hysterically funny!). I found the Stuart Little of this book much more cute and amusing than the one in a recent movie with the same title.	2004-07-13
US	50543047	R1F7VQFLQIWVWX	0387905189	461579260	Algebra (Graduate Texts in Mathematics) (v. 73)	Books	5	55	61	N	N	Well worth the read for any budding mathematician	I've been acquainted with several introductory graduate algebra<BR>books over the years, and prefer this one for its coverage of all the fundamental areas (groups, modules, rings, linear algebra, fields, and category theory), being concise, and providing great care when outlining each proof. <br />If one compare's the amount of material in this book to Jacobson's &quot;Basic Algebra Vol 1&quot;, Grove's &quot;Algebra&quot;, or Herstein's &quot;Abstract Algebra&quot;, Hungerford's book gets the nod. <BR>Moreover, I much more prefer the concise definition, example, theorem, proof format over the more colloquial approach, as can be found in Jacobson's text. For me at least, the payoff for reading an algebra text is the beauty found in the logic and reasoning from which very profound results arise from the complex interaction and use of more straightforward ones. And this is exactly where Hungerford's book shines through in tremendous glory. When outlining a proof he does an outstanding job in citating the results from previous Chapters that are used. For me this is the strength of algebra (In geometry I cringe when I get a picture for proof, and in analysis it is often quite complicated to verify that a given situation possesses the appropriate conditions needed to invoke some famous lemma or theorem).<br />One last good word about this book: I found the exercises both in abundance (after each section) and quite reasonable for a first year grad. student. Happy reading.	2004-07-12
US	50543047	R1RS8INWCOS40R	013519802X	304261439	VHDL Starter's Guide	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The book lives up well to its title	I know there are many hardware design engineers and students who suffer from  &quot;VHDL anxiety&quot; since it tends to seem alot less intuitive than verilog (especially in this age when C has surpassed ada as a common programming language taught at universities). For this reason Yalamanchili's VHDL Starter's Guide represents a nice contribution to the field. There is enough material in the guide to satisfy, say a senior computer-engineering student who is being intorduced for the first time. <br />My only complaint about the book is its lack of appendices and specification of the entire language. So look somewhere else if this is the purpose for buying a VHDL book. However, as a place to start, it seems quite effective in developing the confidence needed to move on to the more technical aspects of synthesis and simulation. <br />By the way, the author has written a  thicker introductory hardcover book on VHDL published by Prentice Hall. The title is different, but it is virtually the same content. Little if anything was changed from that book to this starter guide. So be careful.	2004-04-30
US	50543047	R1EXMZ4X76RKS0	0130887021	733523110	Discrete-Event System Simulation (3rd Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Gives a well-written and complete introduction	This book provides a very good introduction to discrete-event simulation. The authors start out by providing several simple examples in areas such as queueing and inventory systems, as well as reliability. After the first few chapters the reader gets a sense of what simulation represents and why it is done. In later chapters they score high marks in introducing more advanced issues, such as probability models, random number and random variate generators, queueing theory, and input modeling. <br />In closing, the book makes for a very good junior or senior-level introduction to simulation, and I especially am thankful that the presentation was made independent of any simulation package. Instead it focuses on those things that any good simulation package/language should have (e.g. random-number generators, built-in objects for customers and servers, statistical support for evaluating hypotheses about collected data, etc.).	2004-04-30
US	50543047	R2G0JN02LNDYRL	0131415565	102024845	Starter's Guide to Verilog 2001	Books	5	8	8	N	N	an excellent introduction to verilog	I liken this book to Kernighan and Ritchie's &quot;The C Programming Language&quot; in that it seems very concise, self-contained, well-written, with helpful appendices that will answer most advanced questions about verilog. The comparison is fitting since verilog is based on the C language. The aforementioned book on C is really the only text reference on the subject that I've used in the past five years, and I imagine verilog 2001 will play a similar role as I continue using verilog to design hardware.	2004-04-30
US	50543047	R1STTITZXO7O4A	0387946187	11508338	A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition (Stochastic Modelling and Applied Probability)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	May be the best pr book from a theoretical standpoint	In giving this book a second read, its importance finally dawned on me: it is one of the few if only books that provides a well-rounded theoretical (i.e. mathematical definitions and proofs) perspective on pattern recognition. Although other books, such as Duda et al's &quot;Pattern Classification&quot;, have a significant degree of mathematical rigor, very few can claim to be based on the solid mathematical foundations of Lesbesgue measure theory, as this book is. This book has been a big inspiration for me, in that most pr papers I come across provide some method X, and show how experimentally it is more efficient or effective than methods Y and Z. Such papers, although possibly generating interest in the subject or method, do little if anything to advance the theory which in the end will have the final say of how, when, and why something works or when it doesn't. On the other hand, by making the assumption that the data comes from an unknown (i.e. nonparametric) probability measure space which induces an inherent optimal Bayesian error on the classification problem, this book shows how the theory of probability can be used to prove some very interesting results. <br />As an example, the authors define what it means to have a universally consistent classifier; i.e. a classifier which converges to the optimal Bayesian classifier as the amount of training data approaches infinity in the limit (irregardless of the data distribution). Moreover, one of the important results is that such classifiers exist and are often quite easy to devise (e.g. nearest-neighbor methods). And to be able to mathematically prove this is indeed inspiring.<br />In closing, I would highly recommend this book to anyone who has the mathematical prereqs (probability from an abstract measure-theory point of view)<BR>and is interested in doing high quality mathematical research in pattern recognition. For that audience this book will provide a good foundation for literally an unlimited number ofinteresting questions; many of which remain unanswered.<br />For those who are more interested in the practice of pattern recogition, the above mentioned book by Duda et al. (ISBN 0471056693) will do just fine as a reference. The book &quot;Pattern Recognition&quot; by Theodoridis et al. is also of high quality (ISBN: 0126858756).	2004-04-12
US	50543047	R3QJBRWPA6RU23	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Hard to not recommend this fifth book of an exciting series	My reaction to this book was very similar to what I had after reading \\"Goblet of Fire\\": I enjoyed yet another encounter between Harry and the Dursleys of Privet Drive, found the plot in between Privet Drive and the arrival to Hogwarts rather slow and boring, and then quickly became more engaged with the book once Harry and his companions settled in for their fifth year at Hogwarts.<br />For me the strength of this book lies in the Jan Umbridge character. She really does seem the embodiment of institutionalized evil, and her interactions with Harry and her stay at Hogwarts made me eager to turn the pages, wondering how the author would resolve her unwelcome stay at Hogwarts.<br />I found the book's conclusion once again very exciting, surprising, and revealing.<br />My only complaint might be the book's length. Longer does not necessarily mean better. Quite often I felt that the author's prolonged descriptions of things like the evolution of a character's demeanor during a verbal exchange did less for enhancing the story than it did in unnecessarily slowing down the book's tempo. This book likely has more words than Melville's \\"Moby Dick\\", yet alot less substance. Writer's who are encouraged to be more descriptive in their narrative ought to take that advice with a grain of salt. Sometimes<br /> aspects of a scene are better left to the reader's imagination.	2003-12-22
US	50543047	R289YDMX1WHITV	0486422577	732874969	Combinatorics of Finite Sets (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	An excellent and unique perspective on combinatorics	When one thinks of combinatorics of finite sets, he or she might first think of codes and designs. But this book introduced me to an area of combinatorics which I knew very little about, namely extremal set problems and their solutions which fall under famous Theorems by famous mathematicians: Erdos-Ko-Rado, Sperner, and Kruskal-Katona to name a few. I found these topics fascinating and fun to think about, which is in large part due to the author's coherent style, organization, explanation, and expertise of the subject-matter. Moreover, the author provided solutions to *every* one of the 150+ problems!!! How many math books can boast such a claim? Aside from may be a rough presentation of Lemma 4.3.2 the rest of the book is a masterpiece which I hope will gain more recognition within the next twenty years. <br />I highly recommend this book to both mathematicians and computer scientists. Although the book has very few &quot;algorithms&quot; in it, the thinking and reasoning about discrete structures (e.g. families of finite sets and multisets) will do wonders in developing the mind of a computer scientist, whether advanced or undergraduate. Yet it is quite sad that many cs departments (and math for that matter) invest little if any curriculum in discrete mathematics. Hopefully this will change at least to the point where the cs major will take two or three semesters of discrete math instead of two or three of calculus. For, as this book demonstrates, calculus is not a prerequisite for engaging one's mind in some quite fascinating mathematical problems related to finite sets.<br />Finally, it should be noted that Bela Bollobas also has an interesting book titled &quot;Combinatorics: Set Systems, etc....&quot; which significantly intersects with this book, but not to the degree where the reader should think they are interchangeable. I recommend both, and to read Anderson's book first; as I believe this book lays a better foundation than the latter.	2003-11-08
US	50543047	R1EG70BDEGVOYY	1579550088	20378952	A New Kind of Science	Books	2	20	23	N	N	A major disappointment	In a nutshell the book's main thesis claims  that complex behavior can arise in a system for which each component obeys a simple rule. Unfortunately this thesis embodies nothing new to mathematics and computer science. Any student who takes an introductory &quot;Theory of Computation&quot; course learns this within the first few weeks, whether it be in studying Russell and Whitehead's logical foundations for arithmetic, Thue's string-rewriting systems, Stephen Kleene's generalized recursive functions, or Alan Turing's computational models. For some reason the author seems to believe that the cellular-automaton instantiation of this principle represents new science and merits a 1000+ page book that, outside of some notes at the end of the book, does not provide concrete references or historical perspective. <br />Recursion is at the heart of cellular automata, and is something that is taught to every freshman or sophomore computer-science major. Recursion represents a very powerful idea, since seemingly complex systems can arise by two usually simple definitions: i) the initial conditions of the system and ii) the recursive step which describes the next state of the system in terms of the system's current state. The most common example is the Fibonacci sequence which has been known for over half a millenium: <br />Initial Conditions: f_0 =0, f_1=1, <BR>Recursive Step: f_n = f_n-1 + f_n-2<br />These two steps yield a sequence of numbers that possess a very rich set of properties still studied today by number theorists.<br />Moreover, asymptotically speaking there is nothing theoretically computationally advantages about cellular automata, in that any computation performed by an m by n cellular-automaton grid can be tractably simulated by any general-purpose computer (otherwise the author wouldn't have been able to perform his experiements and show us those pretty pictures). However, it is true that cellular automata have proven useful in modeling some dynamical systems (see &quot;Dynamical Systems and Cellular Automata&quot; by Demongeot et al.) and, for these applications, that one would achieve a constant-factor computational speedup by using a programmable computer whose architecture followed that of  cellular automata rather than a Von-Neumann-style machine, as it would eliminate the need for the Von Neumann machine to simulate the cellular network. <br />But I read this book hoping not to be reintroduced to the ABCs of computing, but rather to possibly have some light shed on how engineers might be able to harness cellular automata for the sake of developing intelligent systems. The current state of the art in terms of distributed intelligence is in the area of artificial neural networks ( a special case of cellular networks) and using them for the sake of pattern recognition. However, success with neural networks has been limited to relatively small-scale networks, given the intractable task of training the network. The task becomes intractable because in the current paradigm it is required that the strength of every neural connection be computed by the engineer/scientist, in hopes of minimizing the average amount of error the network produces when performing the pattern-recognition task. This results in an unwieldy optimization problem in terms of thousands if not millions of variables. Thus success with neural networks has been limited to very well-defined tasks. It is thus an interesting question as to how to make this learning process scale to very-large scale networks. Unfortunately, this fundamental issue does not get addressed anywhere in the book, and surprisingly artificial-intelligence considerations are for the most part absent throughout the book.<br />Finally although the author correctly argues that one cannot mathematically predict the future states of some cellular automata (unlike how one can use calculus to predict the position of the planets at any moment in time), it still may be possible, by making some simplifying assumptions about a network (e.g. by assuming that it is smooth and continuous instead of finite), to prove macroscopic properties that could provide insights into how to harness the complexity of a cellular network. In other words, just as cellular networks can be useful for modeling continuous smooth systems, so it may be that smooth continuous systems may prove useful in uderstanding how to engineer &quot;intelligent&quot; cellular networks. In fact this has been going on for years in the lifelong work of Walden Freeman (see Freeman's &quot;Neurodynamics&quot;) who worked with dynamical-systems models in studying mesoscopic brain activity.	2003-07-14
US	50543047	R3CXZS10O64GJ2	0262600323	212147764	Learning in Graphical Models (Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning)	Books	4	33	37	N	Y	Recommended, but not the place to begin	The title of the book is somewhat misleading, in that most of the research papers involve advanced issues concerning one particular graphical model, namely the Bayesian network. For this reason I highly recommend, as a prerequisite to this book, Finn Jensen's &quot;Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs&quot;. Jensen's book is adequate in giving a good introduction and overview of the subject, but not sufficient for calling oneself an &quot;expert&quot; upon successfully digesting it. <br />To its credit, &quot;Learning in Graphical Models&quot; has several well-written and interesting papers, but the tutorial papers just did not seem enough of an introduction for me to feel comfortable using it as a first source of introduction. <br />What I find most compelling about Bayesian networks is the fact that they seem both highly modular (which facilitates reusability and network interconnectivity) and can be designed in a semi-rational manner (contrast this with neural-network architectures for which few good algorithms exist for determining size and number of layers). For this reason I imagine they will be important players in future engineering projects that require learning and adaptation.	2003-06-18
US	50543047	RZI21BP7D7X4Z	0387952594	554086406	Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs (Information Science and Statistics)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	A very good introduction to Bayesian networks	I am very pleased to have found a book that gives a modern, sound, and self-contained introduction to Bayesian networks. The only prerequisite is basic knowledge of probability. This makes sense because a Bayesian network is essentially a directed graph whose vertex set is a collection of random variables, while an edge from one variable X to another variable Y represents a belief that X has a causative effect on Y. For example, X could be the pregnancy status of a cow, while Y could be a blood test administered to the cow. Vertex Y would contain a contingency table that reflects the conditional probability of Y in terms of X. The author does well in explaining this, as well as adequately treating many of the practical issues surrounding Bayesian networks, such as design issues, network learing and tuning, and some basic algorithms (e.g. bucket elimination and junction trees) that aid in the efficient updating of variable probabilities due to new evidence that may instantiate or change the distribution of one or more variables.<br />The author also provides a good introduction to decision graphs, a close relative of Bayesian networks.<br />The aspect of Bayesian networks that I find most attractive is the fact that there is a &quot;rational&quot; way of designing a network, based on hypothesis, informational, and mediating variables, and their &quot;causal&quot; relationships. Unlike neural networks in which one is almost forced to guess the appropriate structure of the network, every node in a Bayesian network correpsonds with a state or quantity that can be measured either directly or indirectly through other variables. Thus, changes in a system model should only induce local changes in a Bayesian network, where as system changes might require the design and training of an entirely new neural network.<br />Another aspect of Bayesian networks that I find very compelling is the way in which they seem quite amendable to learning and the presentation of new evidence.This is true since knowledge updating is done locally (through variables), while the effects of those changes are witnessed globally through appropriate belief-updating algorithms.<br />On the downside, it should be noted that the operation of belief-updating is in general NP-hard, thus there exists a valid concern about the computational efficiency of Bayesian networks. Contrast this with the fact that once a nueral network has been trained, it is quite easy to compute. One would hope that these concerns will subside with more research, for the above mentioned benefits of Bayesian networks leads me to believe that these networks will have quite an influence on the future directions of machine learning.<br />Although this book will not go down in history as the definitive reference for Bayesian networks, it serves as a good conduit for explaining this quite interesting area of learning at a time when such few complete and modern references exist.	2003-06-14
US	50543047	R15IJAGVWATXHK	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	My daughter and I *love* the entire series	On the level of introducing a child to the joys of reading a long novel, this book has succeeded far and beyond my expectations. Ever since I began reading Harry Potter to my six-year old daughter, it has been the main attraction of the day or evening. In addition to the suspense, adventure, fantasy, and mystery that come with a Harry Potter story, the author does a good job in walking a fine line between writing about a magical world in which anything is possible (e.g. preserving a copy of one's self in a magical diary), to addressing that part of life which is governed by laws and rules (e.g. underage wizards cannot practice magic in front of muggles, but how the Ministry of Magic knows when this happens is never explained).<br />For us the excitement of reading Harry Potter is certainly real and magical; and I hope my daughter's enthusiasm carries over when reading other books that are more concerned with the rules and laws governing the lives and relationships of muggles.	2003-06-09
US	50543047	R18TACENHOCOI6	0130950696	594471139	Speech and Language Processing: An Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and Speech Recognition	Books	4	11	14	N	N	The a good introduction to NLP, but could be improved	This book helped me accomplish what I set out to do; namely to obtain an overview of the field of natural language processing, with an emphasis on language understanding (as opposed to recognition). And I can recommend it on that level. The weakness of the book however is that it left me asking, \\"OK, now what?\\". The book started off strong with a number of dynamic-programming algorithms, finite automaton models, and N-grams that one could sink his/her teeth into from an algorithmic point-of-view. But when it came to actual techniques for natural-language understanding (chapters 14-17) the goods were not delivered. The algorithms disappeared, and the best I could find was in Chapter 15 an incomplete, and unconvincing treatment of Hiyan Alshawi's semantic parsing techniques which fueled the Core Language Engine last decade. Chapter 16 dealt with lexical semantics and was almost entirely devoid of algorithms.<br />My gut feeling after reading this text is that parsing techniques will likely give way to statistical and probabilistic learning methods that will in some sense bypass the need to correctly or accurately parse language. I cannot fault the authors for not exploring this in more depth,as this represents the cutting edge for both NLP and artificial intelligence. In any case, I'm off to read Schutze and Manning's book which will hopefully provide a bit more focus on that perspective. What intrigues me is that most people can understand some language, but very few people understand the grammar of their own language, especially if they have been deprived of a formal education. So why should computers need to know all about grammar rules and parsing? Could they instead be trained by simply being exposed to enough interactions between language and objects? I teach in a department dominated by both foreign and immigrant students. I understand them most of the time, but I would estimate that half the time their sentences or utterances would not fail to be parsed correctly.	2003-04-15
US	50543047	R3FRODK19OA6O6	0262032937	724287306	Introduction to Algorithms, Second Edition	Books	5	32	36	N	N	The definitive reference for data structures and algorithms	While working as a software engineer, my supervisor, who also wrote programs for a living, had a book on his shelf, &quot;Data Structures and Algorithms&quot;, written by Horowitz and Sahni. It was one of the most tattered-looking hardback books I had ever seen! (a true indicator of the worth of a book). Moreover, I view the Cormer, Leiserson, Rivest book as an updated version of this book, in that it has the same core content of data structures and algorithms, and presents the algorithms in psuedocode instead of a GPL like C++. I find this book, however, not only better written than its predecessor, but also containing a number of advanced chapters (e.g. computational geometry and parallel computation) that reflects the explosion of the study of algorithms over the past 20 years. If I had to choose one book on data structures and algorithms to have on my shelf it would be this one, as no other modern text compares with it in terms of its breadth and depth of the subject material. However, for those students or practitioners who prefer to learn about data structures and algorithms within the context of a progromming language, I recommend Mark Weiss's book on data structures and algorithms, both in Java and in C++. His book seems less developed and rigorous, but he gives good examples, explanations, and more practical insights.	2003-02-02
US	50543047	R1IQVW003NU5UR	0446365483	216508473	Juiceman's Power of Juicing	Books	5	158	161	N	N	A life changing book for me	This book along with Dr. Norman Walker's &quot;Fresh Vegetabels and Fruit Juice&quot; helped me begin my quest and desire to mostly eat and drink raw fruits and vegetables. Ten years ago as a first-year graduate student at UC Santa Barbara I found myself with an acne problem that had plagued me for the last 5 years, despite ingesting numerous antibiotics. Moreover, my eyes were beginning to tire easily. Then one day I stumbled upon this book by Dr. Walker which from the onset made complete sense to me. Around the same time I saw an infomercial advertising the Juiceman Jr. which  I bought the next week  (and it hasn't failed me since!), along with the &quot;Power of Juicing&quot; book and began a regimen of fresh juice three times a day, using many of the recipes and suggestions from both books. Some amazing things began to progess over the next year:!<BR>i) my acne not only completely disappeared, but I found myself having a very youthful, vibrant look. I looked better than I had ever in the past.<BR>ii) I lost 15 pounds in one year and became a star on the softball field.<BR>iii) I have not touched my reading glasses in the past 9 years.<BR> <BR>In the words of Jack Lalane (who is older and more fit than 99.99% of all other Americans) &quot;If man made it, I don't eat it&quot;.<br />One note on juicers: low-rpm juicers which press the juice now offer a nice alternative to the Juiceman or any other of the centrifugal juicers. They seem easier to clean and produce a higher yield of vitamins and less oxidation. I recommend Samson  6 in 1 juicer which has a 5 year warranty on the auger (like a drill bit which is used to press the juice) and a 10 year warranty on the motor. <br />The revolution does not begin in the streets, but rather with a tall class of carrot and spinach!	2003-01-22
US	50543047	R3GL0CYYDDSQFF	0387984887	354091829	Modern Graph Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	Excellent in content, but somewhat challenging in narrative	Bela Bollobas has the rare gift of having both deep mathematical insights, and the ability to eloquently communicate them in a way that is accessible to the average graduate student. In his book &quot;Modern Graph Theory&quot;, Bollobas covers just about every exciting area of the subject, and does so in an up-to-date fashion that gives the reader a big picture of each sub-area of the field. The ability to do this not only seems difficult, but also essential, since he himself has written entire books on two of the chapters (extremal graph theory, and random graphs). Just about every major important theorem (including max-flow/min-cut Theorem, and theorems by Menger, Szemeredi, Kuratowski, Erdos/Stone, and Tutte) can be found here, and thus makes this book indispensable for anyone who does research in graph theory, combinatorics, and/or complexity theory.  In my opinion the true highlights of this book are indeed those areas he knows best: extremal graph theory, random graphs, and random walks on graphs, the latter of which may be the best introduction to that subject that one will find in a textbook.<br />My only complaint, at the cost of perhaps half a star, is that his discussions and proofs often seem difficult to follow, as he will state something that to him seems quite obvious, yet to this reader often seemed a bit subtle, and would hence slow down the reading. Indeed, if these off-handed remarks were included as exercises at the end of each chapter, then the number of excercises would have swelled from the current 600 to well over one thousand ! Speaking of which, these 600+ exercises, although also representing another blessing of this book in that they add another degree of depth, tend to lack &quot;starter&quot; exercises, and go straight to the theory. But this is to be expected from  a graduate text.<br />Finally, for the reader whose research significantly intersects with graph theory, but may not be ready or willing to be initiated by Bollabas into the world of graph theory, I would recommend Dietsel's graduate text on the subject. His book covers similar topics, but may be more clearly and transparently, but with less depth and insight.e world of graph theory, I would recommend Dietsel's graduate text on the subject. His book covers similar topics, but may be more clearly and transparently, but with less depth and insight.	2003-01-05
US	50543047	R2GZSM12FBNFFN	0486402584	168904928	Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity (Dover Books on Computer Science)	Books	5	84	87	N	Y	Inexpensive, excellently written, and quite interesting!	I had this book on my shelf for two years before taking a serious look at it, and only wish I had read it much earlier in life. Christos Papadimitriou has written quite a gem! On one hand this book serves as a good introduction to combinatorial optimization algorithms, in that it provides a flawless introduction to the simplex algorithm, linear and integer programming, and search techniques such as Branch-and-Bound and dynamic programming. On another, it serves as a good reference for many graph-theoretic algorithms. But most importantly Papadimitriou and Steiglitz seem to be on a quest to understand why some problems, such as Minimum Path or Matching, have efficient solutions, while others, such as Traveling Salesman, do not. And in doing so they end up providing the reader with a big picture behind algorithms and complexity, and the connection between optimization problems and complexity.<br />After reading this and Papadimitriou's &quot;Introduction to Computational Complexity&quot; (which I also highly recommend), I now consider him one of the best at conveying complex ideas in a way that rarely confuses the reader. I also had the priviledge of attending one of his talks on complexity, and he seems just as effusive and transparent as a lecturer as he does a writer. Ah, for once I bought a Dover book that did not disappoint.	2002-11-14
US	50543047	R1FVT8WEAUGZKM	089019033X	602212676	Fresh Vegetable and Fruit Juices	Books	5	212	217	N	Y	A life changing book for me	This book got it all started for me in my desire to eat mostly<br />raw fruits and vegetables (especially the juices). Ten years ago as a first-year graduate<br />student at UC Santa Barbara I found myself with an acne problem that had plagued me for the last 5 years, in addition to eyes that were beginning to tire easily. Then one day I stumbled upon this book by Dr. Walker which from the onset made complete sense to me. I bought a juiceman juicer the next week (and it hasn't failed me since!) and began a regimen of fresh juice three times a day. Some amazing things began to progess over the next year:!<br />i) my acne not only completely disappeared, but I found myself having a very youthful, vibrant look. I looked better than I had ever in the past.<br />ii) I lost 15 pounds in one year and became a star on the softball field.<br />iii) I have not touched my reading glasses in the past 9 years.<br />In the words of Jack Lalane (who is older and more fit than 99.99% of all other Americans) &quot;If man made it, I don't eat it&quot;.	2002-10-20
US	50543047	RKGW2UJUAXYJA	0521458978	224355751	Algebraic Graph Theory (Cambridge Mathematical Library)	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Well written, intriguing, but somewhat dated	I found this book very clear, concise, and well written. Most proofs seemed effortless on both the author's and reader's part. Moreover, I found the content very interesting, especially the results on the spectrum of a graph, which simply represents the eigenvalues (and their multiplicities) of the adjacency matrix (although recently it has been defined in terms of the normalized incidence matrix). It amazed me just how much mathematics can be put to bear on such a simple notion of vertices and connections between them. The only downside to this book is that algebraic graph theory has moved in many new directions since the first edition (the second edition mostly states some recent results at the end of each chapter), and the interested reader may want to supplement this book or follow up this book with the following: &quot;Spectral Graph Theory&quot;, by Fan Chung, &quot;Algebraic Graph Theory&quot;, by Godsil et al., and &quot;Modern Graph Theory&quot;, by Bollobas, all of which make for graduate-level reading. And to think that some mathematics departments still show little if any desire to support fellow mathematicians who study graph theory! Reading any of these books hopefully might alter some of those entrenched attitudes.	2002-10-18
US	50543047	RXD8KCMHZU41M	038798674X	775885519	Mathematical Statistics (Springer Series in Statistics)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	a measure-theoretic based introduction to statistics	This book has all the ingredients of what in my opinion constitutes an excellent mathematics text: rigorous, concise,<br />self-contained, clear, and taking an abstract point of view. Note however that, due to the latter ingredient, the author studies statistics using a measure-theoretic approach; and thus I highly recommend that a potential reader first study measure theory as a prerequisite. The first chapter reviews the basics of measure theory, but it may seem too giant a first step for some readers.<br />The first two chapters of the book give a nice overview of probability and statistics, while the remaining chapters expand on three fundamental areas of statistical inference: estimation (both parametric and nonparametric), hypothesis tests, and confidence sets). And I must admit that I'm very impressed with the author! For if a textbook is a reflection of what an author knows about some subject, then Shao represents a treasure trove of knowledge that is so eloquently shared in this book. Anyone serious about doing graduate-level reasearch in statistics should invest a year of studying this book. But be forwarned that most likely one will find this, due to the onslaught of measure theoretic analysis, one of the more challenging books to makes its way on the book shelf. For those who cannot stomach so much analysis, but would like to at least understand the gist of statistics, I recommend Roussas's book of the same title. It is calculus-based and makes some simplifying assumptions (e.g. continuous or discrete) about the distributions, which helps make the math digest easier.	2002-10-01
US	50543047	R13V58BLZG1X84	0070428077	524509327	Machine Learning	Books	5	91	95	N	N	An excellent overview for the adv. undergrad or beg. grad	I agree with some of the previous reviews which criticize the book for its lack of depth, but I believe this to be an asset rather than a liability given its target audience (seniors and beginning grad. students). The average college senior typically knows very little about subjects like neural networks, genetic algorithms, or Baysian networks, and this book goes a long way in demystifying these subjects in a very clear, concise, and understandable way. Moreover, the first-year grad. student who is interested in possibly doing research in this field needs more of an overview than to dive deeply into <BR>one of the many branches which themselves have had entire books written about them. This is one of the few if only books where one will find diverse areas of learning (e.g. analytical, reinforcment, Bayesian, neural-network, genetic-algorithmic) all within the same cover.<br />But more than just an encyclopedic introduction, the author makes a number of connections between the different paradigms. For example, he explains that associated with each paradigm is the notion of an inductive-learning bias, i.e. the underlying assumptions that lend validity to a given learning approach. These end-of-chapter discussions on bias seem very interesting and unique to this book. <br />Finally, I used this book for part of the reading material for an intro. AI class, and received much positive feedback from the students, although some did find the presentation a bit too abstract for their undergraduate tastes	2002-10-01
US	50543047	RXH2UEYOCC0OV	0131816292	2544429	Topology (2nd Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The best place to begin studying topology	Although both parts of this book are exceptionally well written,<br />I've seen even better presentations of general topology in Sutherland's &quot;Introduction to Topological and Metric Spaces&quot;, although admittedly Chapters 5 and 8 are not covered there. On the other hand I have found it very difficult to find a better book that covers part 2 of this book, Algebraic Topology. Most textbooks in this area either seem outdated or overly abstract. However, Munkres takes the time to explain concepts like covering spaces and the fundamental group with care and detail, providing a number of concrete examples. Combine this book with his differential topology book, and one can easily self-study his or her way to a mastery of first-year graduate topology.	2002-08-09
US	50543047	R51ABRXRW62J3	0072899050	677286350	Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications	Books	5	22	30	N	N	The &quot;Violin&quot; Book of Discrete Mathematics	This book easily ranks as my favorite lower-division math/computer science textbook. Aside from its omission of elementary coding theory, this book contains just about every important discrete mathematical topic (logic, sets, functions, algorithms, complexity, combinatorics, relations, graphs, Boolean algebra, formal language theory) that a beginning student should be introduced to. Plenty of examples in each section that reflect the end-of-section exercises. Very well organized in that key definitions, rules, and theorems are boxed and well highlighted. <BR>Concepts are well explained and reinforced with numerous examples.<BR>And most importantly, plenty of engaging problems that range from trivial to  quite challenging. Applications to areas such as computer science are in abundance. But most enjoyable for me are the numerous biographical sketches of important discrete mathematicians. All around an excellent text, and one I had been searching for since my days as a freshman in college when I had wondered when, as a math major, I would ever get to the fun stuff: logic, graphs, codes, etc.. Little did I know that I would have to wait 17 years as a professor at the same college to finally get to it.	2002-08-06
US	50543047	R2PPBWE203B4EZ	0521773628	37804002	Causality: Models, Reasoning, and Inference	Books	3	27	49	N	N	A review of &quot;Causality&quot;	First off, the rating of three stars is relative to my expectations that this book would provide me with some insights in how to use graphical models for purposes of making inferences from statistical data and, in general, to facilitate the process of (machine) learning from data. And although Pearl and his colleagues have made great progress in this area, this book seems more targeted for researchers in areas outside of AI, such as economics, statistics, and medical research. Although the author gives a number of rigorous definitions to help support his notions of causality, the book is written in a somewhat abstract manner with few if any nontrivial examples (although enough trivial ones to satisfy a more general audience) to support the definitions and concepts. References to the literature are favored over mathematical proofs. Thus, aside from the references, I found this book of little use, but on the other hand, I do recommend it for its intended audience, for I do believe that graphical models can be of great use in these other areas.<br />Finally given the controversy and general misunderstanding about &quot;causality&quot;, I wonder why Pearl would even use definitions like &quot;causal model&quot; and &quot;...variable X is a causal influence of variable Y&quot;. His justification seems that researchers still think in terms of cause and effect, and thus it would serve them well if they had a mathematical foundation to fall back on.<br />Even if I did not have issue with some of the techniques and algorithms endorsed in this book, it would still seem much more appropriate to supply fresh, distinguished definitions (devoid of the &quot;cause&quot; word and its synonyms) and thus when future researchers use and make reference to Pearl's structural methods, they will call them as such and hopefully avoid confusion and controversy.	2002-05-26
US	50543047	R14MHRZKEOAXZU	0387984852	929015558	Fourier Analysis and Applications: Filtering, Numerical Computation, Wavelets (Texts in Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	An excellent text for Fourier Analysis	I bought this book hoping to find a self-contained, semi-rigorous introduction to Fourier Analysis and its applications, and indeed I'm very pleased with the purchase. One aspect of the book's format that I enjoyed in a self-study setting is how it is partitioned into lessons (which are in turn divided into chapters). Indeed, it seemed that each lesson took me about 60-90 minutes to absorb, which is the average time most students (including myself) devote to one lesson. <br />Another aspect of the book I enjoyed was the fact that, on one hand the author took the time to introduce mathematically sophisticated ideas such as Lesbesgue measure and Hilbert spaces in order to make the proofs run more smoothly, but on the other there where more practical lessons on the fast Fourier transform, filters, and even wavelet analysis (last lesson). Such a blend of theory and practice in a relatively compact text seems quite rare. <br />Finally, I highly recommend this book for students of all levels; but especially to graduate students in mathematics, physics, and engineering.	2002-05-22
US	50543047	RJ24OVF4ML43L	0201361221	202116509	Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis in C++ (2nd Edition)	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A book that favors practicality over theory	I used this book for teaching an introductory data structures and algorithms course at Long Beach St. University. In teaching or studying such a course one has to walk a fine line between giving a good theoretical presentation of the material, but at the same time discuss practical implementation issues. Weiss walks this line with good balance and agility, but his presentation of the material does raise some pedagogical issues; the most obvious being whether or not it is prudent to use C++ code in favor of psuedocode. Not an easy question to answer. One compromise would be to first present the algorithms in pseudocode and then follow it up with C++ in an appendix. This is the choice taken by Drozdek, in his book with the same name. To Weiss's credit, however, I do not think this would work as well. Since he does very well at explaining many practical aspects of the implementation, it seems appropriate to have the code nearby. On the other hand, there were occassions when I felt that the code seemed too advanced and overly refined for an audience consisting of mostly students who are just learning how to program in C++. It only detracts from the issues at hand, namely the data structures and algorithms. <br />With so much detail paid to implementation issues, one aspect of the subject (possibly the most important aspect) that suffers most is the mathematical analysis. Frankly, there just isn't enough of it, to at least support many of the more advanced problems posed at the end of each chapter. Although an abundance of such problems is supplied, it would have helped to see a sample of them worked out as examples throughout the main text. <br />On a more positive note however, I did enjoy Weiss's down-to-earth style of writing. Helps make the material seem unthreatening (of course, until one reaches the problems at the end of each chapter!).<br />Finally, despite some of its shortcomings, I still consider this book one of the best on the subject (from an implementation point of view) and hence rate it with four stars.	2002-05-02
US	50543047	R3F7G15QRSBPU9	0070488452	259206150	Introduction to Mathematical Analysis (International Series in Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A good &quot;pre-Rudin&quot; book	Anyone taking mathematical analysis at a sophisticated level,<br />e.g. using Rudin's &quot;Mathematical Analysis&quot;, would benefit from<br />this book which pays much attention to continuity and differentiability in a more concrete fashion than one typically encounters in a more advanced book. The first few chapters on sets, intervals, compactness, and connectedness may seem daunting, but the book becomes much more friendlier after that.	2002-04-19
US	50543047	R23N4XPM7JTVA5	0387945490	474611210	Probability (Graduate Texts in Mathematics) (v. 95)	Books	5	67	70	N	N	Recommended for researchers in probability and statistics	The most important quality to note about this book is that it is *indeed* a graduate textbook. Thus, anyone who is considering reading this book and who has not yet studied ideas such as random processes (including Markov chains and martingales), the Central Limit Theorem, etc.. should pass on this book and look into one or more undergraduate texts (Ross's &quot;Probability Models&quot; would make a good start). Another question the potential buyer should ask is, &quot;Do I want to apply probability, or do I want to study probability for the sake of probability?&quot;. If it is the former, then there are many more suitable books whose union covers all the topics in this book, and does so in a much more clear and inuitive manner (For example, &quot;Ergodic Theory&quot; by Halmos, &quot;Probability Models&quot; and &quot;Random Processes&quot; by Ross, and &quot;Mathematical Statistics Chapters 1-8&quot; by Roussas is one example of such a covering). On the other hand, if the answer is the latter, then stop here and begin reading! In other words, the 5 stars for this review is relative to anticipating that the reader is a grad. student who wants to do research in probability and/or statistics. Conditioning on these assumptions, the clarity and coverage found in this text cannot be matched. The measure-theoretic approach may take some time to get used to, but in the end the reader will be thankful for this, as many of the proofs fall out quite easily.	2002-03-11
US	50543047	R1XEPWGIXBQ94F	1861001339	331015148	Beginning Object-Oriented Analysis and Design: With C++	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A very helpful book	I read this book to help me prepare for teaching a project course in software engineering, and believe it makes for a very good starting point in understanding the object-oriented-design process, from requirements elicitation, to actual implementation. Moreover, it is written at a level that can be understood by most beginning programmers. The text works very well for an introduction to the requirements, design, and implementation issues, however I felt the chapters on concurrency and data persistance may have been tackling more than he could possibly explain well enough in such limited space. Fortunately, however, these chapters can be skipped without losing much understanding of the later material. His later chapter on implementation issues should not be missed!	2002-02-23
US	50543047	R12JNUF56ON1W0	0486683702	195366542	First-Order Logic (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	a classic	I mainly bought this book because of the influence it has had on numerous modern-day logic texts. If you are unfamiliar with the tableaux method for structural proofs, then you will gain alot from reading this, as it provides a different perspective from the more popular Hilbert-system approach. Tableaux systems, of course, have been made popular because they are easy to program with a computer. Please see Gallier's &quot;Logic for Computer Scientists&quot; for more on this matter.	2002-02-16
US	50543047	RFJJ4Z8SNND02	0691029067	263267851	Introduction to Mathematical Logic	Books	5	30	35	N	N	a classic, but mostly useful as a historical reference	I give this book 5 stars out of respect for its enormous contribution to mathematical logic; for no doubt many of the authors of the more modern math-logic texts were greatly influenced by this book. But with that said, all of the material here is a proper subset of other current books which present the material much more clearly and using better notation. Examples include Burris' &quot;Logic for Mathematics and Computer Science&quot;, Ebbinhaus' &quot;Intro. To Math Logic&quot;, and Gallier's &quot;Logic for Computer Scientists&quot;.	2002-02-16
US	50543047	R2050B2NFKEQVN	0070109052	569916066	Complex Variables and Applications (McGraw-Hill Series in Higher Mathematics)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	One of the best math textbooks I've ever read	I read this book in preparation for an analysis qualifying exam, and found that the examples, exercises, and explanations provided made the entire subject seem both easy and interesting. For a beginning student of complex analysis, I do not see any better option. Moreover, I believe every future mathematics-book author should study this book as an exercise on &quot;what to do&quot;. Finally part II of Lang's &quot;Complex Analysis&quot; has alot of interesting advanced material related to geometric function theory, and would make a good follow-up to this book.	2002-02-16
US	50543047	RY2KJJEDNMPER	0764560794	143648138	Betty Crocker's Cookbook: Everything You Need to Know to Cook Today	Books	5	4	4	N	N	yummy!	I use this book at least once a month when my wife is too busy to cook. Lots of good ideas for the main course and desserts. A must in every kitchen.	2002-02-16
US	50543047	RBOU0GTGQ0TCL	007054235X	58821290	Principles of Mathematical Analysis (International Series in Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	My all-time favorite math textbook	To me this book exemplifies the true power of mathematics, in that in taking an abstract point of view (via measure and metric space) it makes the most daunting analysis problems seem like five-finger exercises. To have introductory analysis presented in any other way is ok as long as the budding math student promises to study this book at some point when they have the maturity. For Rudin's presentation represents a symphony within the mind that should not be missed by any mathematician.	2002-02-12
US	50543047	R3CK0FGUJFCNQP	0123046203	409886758	Algebra, Volume 110 (Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Well written and concise. Makes an excellent reference	This is one of my favorite beginning graduate texts. Although it follows a very terse definition-example-theorem-proof style, the proofs and examples seem very enlightening. Each Chapter comes<BR>with numerous exercises interleaved with the material, as well as<BR>exercises at the end of the chapter. Groups, rings, fields, and modules are covered in depth.	2001-12-10
US	50543047	R28E649H82RXD9	0471603287	62073185	Logic for Computer Science: Foundations of Automatic Theorem-Proving (Harper & Row Computer Science and Technology Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very well written	One of the better books written on automated theorem proving.<BR>The author gives a very clear and lucid treatment of areas such<BR>as propositional and first-order logic, resolution, proof theory<BR>(including Gentzen's cut-elimination theorem), logic programming, and typed logic. This book represents an ideal place to begin for anyone who is interested in developing a deep understanding of the foundations of automated reasoning. Careful detail is given towards Gentzen's tableaux methods for obtaining structural proofs, and the other takes great pains to provide rigorous proofs of the results.	2001-10-19
US	50543047	RU7X2QNJZ2WVV	1589490045	794916265	Automated Reasoning With Otter	Books	4	4	4	N	N	By far the best book on OTTER I've encountered	This book fills a major void in the existing literature on OTTER,<BR>the automated reasoning program developed at Argonne Research by William McCune. The book seems unusual in that, on one hand, it provides numerous examples of OTTER input/output files, useful tips on operating OTTER, and a plethora of exercises which, if carried out, will lead to a rapid understanding of the program and how to use it. But on the other hand, the book also works as a formidable introduction to automated reasoning. Starting from basic concepts such as inference rules and unification, and working up to more advanced topics in equational reasoning, one can gain a fairly good introduction to the theory of automated reasoning. My only complaint involves the lack of a good appendix or glossary which lists and summarizes the numerous commands that can be fed to OTTER. Furthermore, many of them are not even indexed, which makes referencing them somewhat tedious. Other than this, I highly recommend the book. However, I would encourage the novice to first study a more user friendly logic programming environment, such as swi prolog, before attacking OTTER. For having some experience with prolog programming will allow the reader to compare and contrast the two automated-reasoning methodologies. As for OTTER itself, I consider it more useful than a prolog interpreter since it allows for the use of<BR>strategies for finding the desired proof or computation. On the other hand, it is a living embodiment of the fact that there is much progress that still needs to made in developing useful and powerful tools for automating logic and mathematics.	2001-10-19
US	50543047	R34DF6OOK4OFM0	0130959901	400524775	Structured Computer Organization (4th Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very good introduction to the inner workings of a computer	This well-written and often humorous (in the good sense) book is targeted for a freshman or sophomore in computer science or computer engineering. Following a few introductory chapters which give both a historical, conceptual, and structural overview of the computer, Tanenbaum partakes upon a semi-detailed introduction to the various &quot;levels&quot; of a computer, beginning with the digital-logic level (the actual hardware) and working up to both the operating-systems and assembly-language levels. <br />With respect to the digital-logic level, I thought he did well in introducing the student to the essential components (e.g. registers, ALU, Flip-Flops) without overburdening the student with design techniques such as Karnaugh maps, finite-state machines, etc..<br />However, by far the best part of the book seemed to be his explanation of the microarchitectural level, in which the relationship between memory, control, and datapath was fully explained. This chapter seemed to be where the &quot;rubber met the road&quot; in terms of showing the connection between programs and hardware. I would have preferred however if he had not introduced the IJVM language so early in this chapter, and had spent more time demonstrating microprograms. I know for a fact that many of my students seemed very confused about the difference between microinstructions and machine instructions.<BR>Moreover, a majority of them found microprogramming with the Mic-1 very difficult if not impossible. More microprogram examples would probably have helped. <br />Finally, where as the later chapters on instruction sets and assembly language seemed very adequate introductory overviews, the operating-systems level seemed overly broad and of not much use. Certainly, a student should read his other book on OS to fully appreciate this all-too-important aspect of the computer.<br />In closing, I should mention that the Mic1 software also accompanies this text, and helps provide the student with a well-rounded education, in that they get some hands-on experience. The software and the well-written text make it an irresistable choice to use a first course in computer organization.	2001-09-19
US	50543047	R1K4XQHEO0BTGD	0486228770	153712580	Test Your Logic (Dover Recreational Math)	Books	5	13	41	N	Y	An excellent puzzle book for automated reasoning	For those of you who enjoy having computers solve puzzles, this book will provide many good problems to work with. The real puzzle is understanding how to phrase the clues in a language like prolog so that a machine can solve the problem. This book has many wonderful puzzles that can be done with the human mind in minutes, and will sometimes take hours to correctly phrase for solving by a computer.	2001-08-02
US	50543047	R2JFMGRZZWJI9E	9813083972	93420070	Paradigms of Artificial Intelligence: A Methodological and Computational Analysis	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A very thought provoking book, but could be improved.	Paradigms of AI is comprised of three parts: symbolic-paradigm overview, connectionist-paradigm overview, and a critique of both paradigms. The first two parts make up over half the book, and after reading them I was left wondering why the author bothered to spend that many pages on them. Someone new to AI will not gain much from the terse overviews, and someone well versed in AI will probably want to skip these first two parts. On the other hand, the connectionist overview had a few interesting sections on subjects that were new to me: adaptive resonance theory, self-organizing maps, and the integration of symbols into connectionist models. That being said, I felt the third part should have been expanded (i.e. made up more of the book) in a way that gave more concrete examples of the sometimes vague concepts the author attempted to relate. For example, why not place the mathematical treatment related to the computational limitations of connectionist networks from the appendix to an earlier chapter, where it can be well-developed and read so as to support the hand waving? But even more annoying may have been the author's lack of consideration of the computational complexity of connectionist networks, and his failure to mention how unlikely it is that a Turing machine could succeed in simulating a human brain (yes time matters!). He mentions this in a footnote, but does not spend time on the matter. May be the most interesting part of the book was his exploration of the meaning of symbols, and presenting the connectionist/symbolic debate from a phenomenological point of view.  The main message seemed to be that AI systems need to take the scientist or engineer into consideration. In other words, what good is a paradigm if it cannot be understood and controlled? Thus, there must be third-person symbols for helping engineers to manage the complexity of the computing paradigm. Although I agree with this from a &quot;practical&quot; point of view, from an investigative point of view focusing only on systems whose computations and modus operandi can be understood seems to be missing an important perspective of AI; that being that the most intelligent systems (humans) living on our planet are sometimes unpredictable, yet are very useful. I believe there will be a time when humans work side-by-side with artificial machines that are not easily predictable or understood, but useful none-the-less. In closing, I recommend part three of this book to anyone who has an interest in the philosophy of arificial intelligence. The first two parts can be safely be omitted.	2001-08-02
US	50543047	R17BUVKIQ946GF	3540643109	468043519	Introduction to Circuit Complexity: A Uniform Approach (Texts in Theoretical Computer Science. An EATCS Series)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A very well written monograph on circuit complexity	This book is mandatory reading for anyone interested in the fascinating and complex world of complexity theory. Circuits represent an interesting approach to complexity since they allow the computer scientist to gain a better mathematical foothold when attempting to investigate the intrinsic complexity of a problem. The book seems concise, well-written, very accessible to advanced students, and covers most of the important circuit complexity results of the last 20 years. A good supplement to this book, however, is Ingo Wegener's famous &quot;blue book&quot; (which is now downloadable from his website) which provides a more historical and classical treatment of the subject.  If P not = NP is proved within my lifetime, I'm estimating that the proof will involve an analysis of circuits. Good luck!	2001-07-17
US	50543047	R1OKZ35ZOVFPOS	3540629270	408749143	Foundations of Inductive Logic Programming (Lecture Notes in Computer Science)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An excellent text on logic programming!	This book is broken into two parts: logic programing, and inductive logic programming. Before I read this book I had previous exposure to automated reasoning and prolog, but not a good understanding of how they were related. The first part of this book (logic) did an amazing job in moving from propositional logic all the way to the theory behind prolog; and by the end of this part I saw the &quot;big picture&quot;. The second half of the book seemed less magical, but certainly just as interesting nonetheless. The chapter on unfolding seemed very good and I particulary was intrigued by the attention paid to clausal languages and the different types of generality lattices that can be defined over both the atoms and clauses. My first reaction to those chapters was &quot;how can one design hierarchical neural networks to support efficient traversals along these lattices structures?&quot;. May be another book will address such a hybrid approach in the near future. There is also a nice chapter on PAC learning which fills a void in the current literature. The writing and examples seemed both very clear and well-chosen throughout the entire book. In conclusion, I highly recommend this to anyone interested in prolog, automated reasoning, and/or machine learning.	2001-07-17
US	50543047	R3EFHFYQ5YVBX0	0818677961	297409214	The Pattern Recognition Basis of Artificial Intelligence (Practitioners)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Somewhere between a general audience book and a text	I found this book quite interesting due to the way it was structured (from low-level tasks requiring pattern recognition and neural networks to high-level tasks such as game playing and natural language), and due to the author's use of pattern recogniton as a theme for intelligence. In many sections towards the end of each chapter, he also hints at how it may be possible to merge the connectionist and symbolic approaches to AI. For example, with respect to game playing, he discusses possible ways to include backpropagation as tool for evolving a good game evaluation function for backgammon. I also found his intuitive discussions on neural networks (chapters 2 and 3) quite engaging, with an emphasis on possible applications more so than a rigorous mathematical treatment.  One main problem I have with the book, however, is its tendency to oversimplify or omit important aspects of the theory. For example, no where does he mention Bayesian classification methods in the pattern recognition chapters. And in general he does not seem to acknowledge the importance of probability in AI.  I plan to use the text in a 5 week summer course in AI, because I believe that, with such short time, a terse but engaging book along with good lecture notes seems most appropriate. However, had the couse been 10 or 16 weeks, I would have opted for a more standard text that has 3x as many pages and definitions (e.g. Nilsson's good book). In closing, I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning some AI , but does not want to be overburdened with math, or to an expert who prefers to browse the discussions to gain a possibly new perspective on the material.	2001-06-07
US	50543047	R1JYZQYF8DQRF3	0471056693	265378188	Pattern Classification (Pt.1)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Introducing the New Heavy Weight Champion	Before this book was published, I considered &quot;Pattern Recognition&quot;, by Theordoridis to be the best text for learning pattern recognition and classification. Although Theordoridis' book has some difficulties (not enough concrete exercises, ommission of structural methods, and not enough material on Bayesian Networks and HMMs), it seemed significantly better than previous texts. However, not only does Duda, Hart, and Stork's book succeed in those areas where the former fails, but it also has other strengths that the former book does not have: better illustrations, boxed formulas and algorithms, and highlighted defintions. Although somewhat superficial, these improvements mark the fact that pattern recognition is now considered a mainstream subject, and thus requires a mainstream text that keeps the integrity and rigor of the subject matter, while simultaneously making it more accessible to the average engineer. The new champ, however, does not come without it's own shortcomings. For example, I believe the last 3 chapters of Theodoridis' book should be read by anyone who wants a deeper understanding of clustering techniques for unsupervised learning. Moreover, this book fails to acknowledge the brilliant work done in computational learning by Vapnik and Chervonenkis, which reveals the authors' bias towards practice over theory. I believe it deserves more than passing mention in the historical notes section of unsupervised learning.	2001-04-25
US	50543047	RQ8H89LILV0D9	9810239106	694584116	A Fascinating Country in the World of Computing	Books	4	5	5	N	N	unconventional, but effective	When reading one of Larry Wos' books one is often surprised to find a complete lack of rigor when discussing a topic such as automated reasoning that is usually made extremely rigorous by the computer scientists, logicians, and mathematicians who have developed the subject over the past 50 years. At first my reaction to this was one of disappointment and disbelief (i.e. where's the beef?); but then I quickly began to realize that this book may end up being one of the most influential I've ever read, for the simple reason that it is written by a man who clearly loves the subject and has both inspired me and made it quite convenient (by including the source code for Otter and emphasizing the language Otter understands throughout the book) for me to begin my journey through the fascinating country. Indeed, unlike most academic authors who fear their reputation will suffer if they write on anything that does not require scores of new symbols, Larry seems to be saying that it is not about the book and its ideas, but more about Otter and an invitation to explore a vast new world that experimenting with Otter represents. To accomplish this, the only new symbolism you will see in this book is that needed to create an input file for Otter to process. Thus, Larry's approach is quite hands-on/empirical rather than theoretical.  With that said, I think this book is ideal for anyone who has formally studied automated reasoning and is ready to experiement with an automated-reasoning program, such as Otter, whose code is supplied on the CD Rom accompanying the book. I myself had spent the latter half of 2000 pouring through Jean Gallier's &quot;Logic For Computer Science: An Introduction to Automated Theorem Proving&quot;, and it was from reading this that I became interested in the field. Had I not read that text, I do not think I would have been prepared to fully understand what Larry was trying to convey, especially in Chapter 3: Automated Reasoning in Full. Thus if you have little or no experience with logic and automated deduction systems, I suggest supplementing this text with either Nissanke's logic text, Ben Ari's, or any introductory book that explains resolution and unification in full (Gallier's book I consider an academic masterpiece, but it is also a graduate text and hence contains *much* more than you really need).  Personally, I believe that anyone who makes significant contributions to this field in the future will do so using a combination of theory and experimentation. Moreover, if you are thinking of playing with Otter out of curiosity of how it will solve your favorite puzzle, you will not appreciate the solution (proof) nearly as much if you had some formal exposure to logic behind you. Best wishes, and happy experimenting!e little or no experience with logic and automated deduction systems, I suggest supplementing this text with either Nissanke's logic text, Ben Ari's, or any introductory book that explains resolution and unification in full (Gallier's book I consider an academic masterpiece, but it is also a graduate text and hence contains *much* more than you really need).      Personally, I believe that anyone who makes significant contributions to this field in the future will do so using a combination of theory and experimentation. Moreover, if you are thinking of playing with Otter out of curiosity of how it will solve your favorite puzzle, you will not appreciate the solution (proof) nearly as much if you had some formal exposure to logic behind you. Best wishes, and happy experimenting!	2001-04-25
US	50543047	R3W03C7Z0C44I9	013212937X	503558959	Digital Design	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A nice intro. to digital design	This book has been on the market for many years (which in itself seems like a good sign), and when it comes to learning the fundamentals of digital design, it is hard to find a better reference. The books strong points include a number of good examples in each chapter, and plenty of problems that seem quite reasonable for a beginning student to solve. My only criticism may be the absence of a chapter on VHDL, which would probably have more use than some of the other topics  (such as the various types of logic families) discussed towards the end of the book.	2001-02-17
US	50543047	R1WV89L1XI45DF	0133011445	281129436	Principles of Digital Design	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A nice intro. to digital design	This book is very suitable for a 10 week intro. course to  digital design. In fact, the author wrote the book with this in mind, since he teaches ICS 151 at UC Irvine which is a 10 week introductory course on the subject. As an instructor, I was thankful that the book came with transparency templates and a solutions manual (although the publisher does not sell it to students). Using this book is also advantageous for the computer science major who needs a solid foundation in digital design  for learning computer architecture, but does not need to be overburdened by an indepth analysis of issues such as timing, hazard-free designs, etc. (although these subjects are discussed, but not in much detail). Moreover, the final chapter discusses design and synthesis issues for developing a cpu. Thus, this book is very appropriate for computer scientists and computer engineers...but may be not the best book for a design engineer who may need a reference with more information.	2001-02-17
US	50543047	R305ZFSRM2O14A	0805311963	534733460	Artificial Intelligence: Structures and Strategies for Complex Problem Solving	Books	5	21	24	N	N	An excellent book for an intro to AI	This book is actually a follow up to Luger and Stubblefield's older book &quot;AI and the Design of Expert Systems&quot;. Being somewhat dated in both title and content, this book serves as its resurrection. Both books are excellent in providing a basic introduction to AI. They contain a number of problems and provide just enough infromation on each topic to give the reader the general idea and a sense of having learned something substantial (this is always the danger when writing a book that surveys a variety of interrelated fields). Another strength of the book is its ability to make connections between the different areas of AI. For example, when discussing knowledge representation, they make sure to draw connections with it and logic as well as natural language processing.	2001-01-17
US	50543047	R2HGC3NE4UY0EE	0201403757	186617516	Prolog Programming for Artificial Intelligence	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	An excellent book for learning prolog and AI	Having just read a book on automated reasoning which covered topics in logic, such as unification and resolution, I was very pleased with the prolog programming language, in that it takes concepts from logic, and uses them in ways that can be applied to a number of interesting areas of AI, such as NLP, planning, and expert systems. I thought Bratko succeeded in making this connection with logic, without burdening the reader with notation and concepts that are really not needed for writing or understanding prolog programs. <br />The book also worked for me on the level of providing a good introduction to the syntax and sematics of the language. The first 200 pages succeed to this end.<br />Finally, the last 13 chapters can be summarized as representing an introduction to AI from a prolog perspective. On the positive side, he shows how to apply prolog to all of the modern, main streams of AI study. However, on the negative, the slant towards prolog in these chapters tends to oversimplify these disciplines.<br />My impression of the language is that it seems good as a prototying language, since it is declarative in nature, but from my experimentation (using SWI Prolog) I think I could write better implementations using c or java. <br />In closing, Bratko's book represents a very good place to start learning prolog and the world of AI.	2001-01-17
US	50543047	RYFF2C6Q9E7SH	0072418729	738086845	Classical and Object-Oriented Software Engineering With Uml and C++	Books	3	13	15	N	N	This book seems overly general to be of use to anyone	The title of the book is very misleading, in that the book has very little uml and c++. Worse however is the lack of good problems and examples throughout the book. It seems like a watered-down version of Ghezzi's Software-Engineering book, the latter of which I would much more recommend. Some instructors may prefer Schach because it has *something* on uml and OOA&amp;D, but it is probably better to supplement Ghezzi with a good book from this area (one I have yet locate).	2000-12-02
US	50543047	R15XHCW8IE6MD0	020165783X	701144034	UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language (2nd Edition)	Books	3	8	14	N	Y	A decent summary of OOP and UML but pedagogically unsound	For a book as short as this one, I expected a more well-written book. The chapter of use-case diagrams seemed USEless. He started off that chapter with a good written example, but then chose to display a diagram related to a different example that was never explained! It gave me the impression that he did not know how to draw these diagrams with a tool, so he decided to steal the diagrams of others, even if they were not representative of the book's examples. This book may be ok for the average programmer who wants something quick to read to give them the false impression that  they &quot;know&quot; UML. But for a textbook, which was the purpose it served me and my students, I would have preferred a book that gave solid defintions and stuck to them.	2000-12-02
US	50543047	R1MRYFSAVRREVJ	0387942580	213257022	Mathematical Logic, 2nd Edition (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An excellent book, but not for beginners.	This is probably one of the best introductions to mathematical logic for those with sufficient mathematical maturity. I especially enjoyed the treatment of the completeness theorem for first-order logic (using Henkin's Theorem), and the  treatment of Godel's incompleteness theorem, and Trachtenbrachts incompleteness theorem for second-order logic. Compared to other books, this book tends to go light on the notation.<br />If you do not have sufficient math maturity, then you may want to try Smullyan's book on the subject.	2000-11-08
US	50543047	R32CYW268NVVZE	0132645998	290160466	Computer Vision and Image Processing: A Practical Approach Using CVIPTools (BK/CD-ROM)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A great book for beginners in image proc. and comp. vision!	If you want to learn about the algorithms for computer vision and image processing and know algebra, then  this book seems ideal. The author's  style seems very accessible, and the examples show just enough mathematics   to give the book some substance. Moreover, you get free image processing  and computer vision software! It would  be surprised if there were a better  algebra-based introductory book out there.	2000-09-20
US	50543047	R2EM7GVRJWVVCT	0132125897	179503525	Differential Geometry of Curves and Surfaces	Books	3	11	26	N	N	A good introductory book on Differential Geometry	I used this book to study for the geometry qualifying exam at UC Santa  Barbara for Masters and Ph.D. students. I found it easily accesible,  concise, and self-contained.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R2ER5N61IF1DO	0824764994	765347387	Measure and Integral: An Introduction to Real Analysis (Chapman & Hall/CRC Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	a good book for first-year graduate students in analysis	In general I liked this book and thought it had many good problems to  learn analysis from. One aspect I did not like is the authors exclusive use  of R^n as the underlying space. The proofs would have been alot nicer had  they introduced  the concept of a sigma algebra over a set. Also, I thought  the authors should have provided more information on transforms,since they  are very important in engineering. A better book is Rudin's &quot;Real and  Complex Analysis&quot;	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1DLBKC5OEBCNL	0471170550	553042099	Elementary Linear Algebra	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An excellent book for beginners in linear algebra	This is where it all began for me: my first course in abstract algebra. I  thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, and being challenged by its  exercises. Learning that a vector space could be a set of anything  satisfying certain algebraic properties opened my mind to modern  mathematics. 15 years later, I still sometimes reference this book.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R22JQ9ILTRSSIZ	0716714809	687302501	Basic Algebra I (Bk. 1)	Books	2	13	22	N	N	Very confusing most of the time	I dislike the book for two main reason: <br />1)the author hides information  in essay-style paragraphs which usually end in phrases like, &quot;thus, we  have proved...&quot;. If you are lucky, he will somewhere state the  theorem.<br />2) because of 1) it serves as a poor reference book, which is  the main subsequent value of a text after you have taken the course with  it.<br />I do share some of the enthusiasm that Richard has for the book, but  only for those parts of the book that I already understood from previous  work. We actually took the class together at UC Santa Barbara. And from  what I remember, Richard was one of the few students who had anything good  to say about the book. I think a better graduate text is Hungerford's or  Grove's (&quot;Algebra&quot;).	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3PY87KDJBPUDZ	0387978127	951513012	Coding and Information Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good book for learning both coding and information theory	It was a pleasure reading this book! I think Roman provides a fresh  introduction to information theory and shows its inherent connections with  coding theory. I found his presentation on the noisy coding theorem very  well written. Another enjoyable part of the book is his treatment of linear  codes. He weaves a web on intrigue around it, showing it from different  perspectives (e.g. a design theory view, field , and vector space view).  Two  thumbs up!	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3S6OPEMXEJ6GK	0716782715	941549202	New Turing Omnibus (New Turning Omnibus : 66 Excursions in Computer Science)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A nice reference book for computer science	Dewdney does a nice job in covering a wide range of topics (e.g. NP  completeness, codes, formal languages) that computer scientists take for  granted as &quot;common knowlege&quot;. It serves as a nice encyclopedia  for  both computer scientists and a layman with some mathematical  background who is curious about some of the disciplines of computer  science. A great book to have on your shelf.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	RMMAR7S1YRIZZ	0262680521	42012634	Theory of Recursive Functions and Effective Computability (MIT Press)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A classic!	The definitive book on computabilty and recursive function theory. I  remember reading this book in preparation for  research in complexity  theory. I found it very stressful reading the book, but it was a good kind  of stress. The kind that forces you to think deeply about what the author  is writing about. In addition to the main text, the author provides  numerous thought-provoking problems whose study could make a coure unto   themselves. I read this book as a 3rd-year graduate student in <br />math. If  you are an undergraduate and are interested in computability theory, I  recommend Nigel's Cutland's book on the  subject.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3OHSDH77JO8WN	0132126052	700995777	Differential Topology	Books	2	2	10	N	N	A very confusing introduction to differential topology!	I couldn't disagree more with the reviewer from Texas. I tried reading  this book as a first year graduate student, and seemed to struggle with  every line. It was  only a year later, when taking a course on differential  geometry, that an instructor,  Doug Moore from UC Santa Barbara, bothered  to make these ideas more clear in his excellent lecture notes. Usually when  I give a bad review, I like to also recommend a much better book,  but  unfortunately I have none to offer in the area of Differential Topology. My  instructor's solution was to switch to Milnor's &quot;Morse Theory&quot;,  but I found this just as bad if not worse. If someone knows of a better  book, please let me know.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R2U6JCIO79VOTI	0716710455	197159865	Computers and Intractability: A Guide to the Theory of NP-Completeness (Series of Books in the Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A classic!	I think every computer science student should  read some of this book to  learn about complexity theory and the notions reducibilty and completeness.  Moreover, you may come across a problem that you have to show is NP or P  complete, and the examples in the  book provide a good model for doing so.  Papadimitriou's book on complexity is also a great place to learn more  about the subject.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3TGSDNXRER3UW	0125984758	156994747	Introduction to Probability Models, Seventh Edition	Books	5	52	53	N	N	I love this book!	The first four chapters alone (intro, random variables, conditonal  probability, markov chains) are worth the price of the book. The author  packs each chapter with very interesting examples and problems. The one I  found most interesting was his probabilistic analysis of the 2-SAT and SAT  problems of computer science. Here he gives an informal math argument as to  why 2-SAT is polynomial  time decidable and why SAT should be intractable.<br />On the other hand, I think someone relatively new to  probability theory  may find his neat problems and examples a bit too much with a first  reading. The book is in its seventh edition, and I think Ross has taken  advantage of this by providing newer insights and more interesting  problems, but in doing so it may overwhelm the novice.<br />If you are  learning probability for the first or second time, I recommend you  supplement this book with Roussas  &quot;A Course in Mathematical  Statistics&quot;. Despite its title, the first 9 chapters give a  calculus-based intro to probability.  And the rest of the book is  *excellent* for a calculus-based intro to statistics.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1RZCI13QD8F35	0387946187	11508338	A Probabilistic Theory of Pattern Recognition (Stochastic Modelling and Applied Probability)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Where's the beef? Right here!	This book provides a solid theoretical foundation for pattern recognition  and statistical learning. If you consider yourself and expert, or want to  be an expert in this field, this book is a must read. It will make you  think hard about the concepts (and may be question whether you are or want  to become an expert!).	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R36KOH8T8N8Z5P	0201580438	887657910	On to C++	Books	3	3	6	N	N	OK for  C++ beginners	I think this book is good for someone who has programmed in C and would  like to gently move &quot;on to C++&quot;. However, it has two  shortcomings: 1) the author uses the same monotonous example of trains     throughout the text. 2) there are quite a few concepts in C++ (e.g. copy   constructors, operator overloading, streaming) that the author spends  little or no time on.  3) the author's explanation of templates at the end  of the book seemed somewhat confusing, and could have  been<br />simplified.<br />On the positive side, I think it provides a good place  to start for a programmer who needs a gentle introduction to C++ and knows  some C.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R2O9ODXLNCFM6K	354058384X	504705893	Structural Complexity I (Texts in Theoretical Computer Science. An EATCS Series)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	A decent book for beginning researchers	If you are learning about complexity theory for  the first time, I  recommend you read Papadimitriou's excellent book on the subject. One  aspect about this book that I did not like is it's lack of combinatorial  analysis, and its more generic, structural apporoach  (i.e. focusing on  robust sets of problems). Some may prefer this, but I think the  combinatorial approach is more in line with mainstream computer science.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1CQ2V5EQ24JUY	0387972722	634433656	Measure, Topology, and Fractal Geometry (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A nice book	I liked this book because it provided me with a new perspective on metric  spaces, in using them as a basis learning about fractals. I think it serves  as a nice book for an undergraduate to read and get enthused about studying  fractals at a higher level.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	RFM3KX3WMNDJK	0387984550	544413981	Linear Algebra (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	A very good on linear algebra!	I found the book to be very thorough and well written. It seemed very easy  to understand except for the  chapter on Jordan Canonical Forms. However, I  would not recommend this book to someone who is learning it for the first  time, unless they have a high degree of mathematical maturity. Try the  beginner book by Howard Anton.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R230D1CCXK7XQQ	0387985921	289252448	Complex Analysis (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	3	13	19	N	N	A good book, but not for beginners.	if you want an introduction to complex analysis, I advise you to pass on  this book, and read Churchill and Brown's introductory book. Having said  this, part I of Lang's book will seem mostly review if you follow my  advice. Part II, on Geometric Function Theory, is more advance material  that is presented reasonably well.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R32U4Y3ZW2GFJ3	0521294657	618350973	Computability: An Introduction to Recursive Function Theory	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An excellent book for beginners in computability theory	If you are a computer scientist who would like to delve into the  foundations of computing for the first time, this is the  perfect book for  you. The author uses unlimited register machines as his computing model,  then shows equivalence with this model and other models , such as the  Turing machine. The reader should find more advanced topics, such Godel's  Incompleteness Theorem, the Recursion Theorem's, and Reducibility to be  quite accessible.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R8MJP6BRRFJJY	0387520791	503037841	Structural Complexity II (E A T C S MONOGRAPHS ON THEORETICAL COMPUTER SCIENCE)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A decent graduate text on structural complexity	This book and it's volume I counterpart have a place  in complexity  theory, but not as a first introduction to the subject (for which I had to  use it for). For  a first introduction, read Papadimitiou's excellent book.  <br />This book is more appropriate for researchers in the  field.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R2W9TPP49RPRFM	0198531613	401737496	Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An excellent, concise book on topology and metric spaces.	I enjoyed reading this book because of its clarity, conciseness, and nice  way of relating topological  and metric spaces. This book is ideal for the  student who is learning about these subjects for the first  time, whether  or not they intend to do more advanced work on the subject. The reader who  wants to go on and learn about more advanced topics, should consult  Munkres's book.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1FECITNQZN8O1	0471062596	353463001	Elements of Information Theory (Wiley Series in Telecommunications and Signal Processing)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A very good book, but could be improved.	Thomas Cover is a legend in the fields of information theory,  telecommunications, and complexity theory, and this book is a reflection of  his expertise in these fields. Thus, I recommend anyone to read this book  who is even remotely interested in these fields, for Cover will make you  *very* interested after reading the book. I found the Chapter on Kolmogorov  complexity to be very good, and it was the first time that I could claim I  actually had a good intuitive grasp of the subject. I found the Chapters on  AEP, Data Compression, and Entropy Rates also very informative. On the  downside, I found the chapters on Rate Distortion and Channel Capacity (two  very central topics in information theory) somewhat confusing, and have  seen better presentations (see Steve Roman's &quot;Coding and Information  Theory&quot;).	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3DTJ0I70R8U43	0849394627	810333686	Pattern Recognition with Neural Networks in C++	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A good experimental book for neural networks	This book comes with C++ source code, and thus provides a nice place to  begin for someone who is interested in experimenting with neural nets. The  author's focus on the character-recognition problem, so the book is  somewhat specialized from this perspective. I would not recommed this book  to someone who is primarily interested in a strong theoretical book  describing learning with  neural nets.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3AI77PADPOP5E	0126861404	313213222	Pattern Recognition	Books	5	21	26	N	N	An excellent book for pattern recognition	I think the authors provide a nice balance between theory and practice. On  one hand, the algorithms presented can and are meant to be implemented for   testing. On the other hand, the authors provide a  fairly sound  mathematical treatment of areas such  as Markov Models, clustering, and  template matching. Most important, the authors do not focus attention only  on one type of problem (e.g. character recognition). Thus researchers from  all walks of pattern recognition should get something out of this  book.<br />Two big thumbs up!	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1K5GQL7KHZS6F	0201530821	680314888	Computational Complexity	Books	5	14	18	N	N	An excellent inroduction to computational complexity	Papadimitriou is one of the great minds in computer science, which is  reflected in this gem of a book.  His prose is very engaging and he covers  just about every topic (although be it lightly) relevant in modern  complexity theory without overly diluting the proofs and results (for  example, he gives a nice concise proof of Razborov's theorem on monotone  circuits).	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R3QU0R8A60ZDSU	0471370460	702553898	The Probabilistic Method (Wiley Series in Discrete Mathematics and Optimization)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A very interesting book	I found this book very enjoyable to read. Although the  underlying theme  of the book is to demonstrate examples of proofs of existence of a property  of a finite structure by showing the structure must have the property with  positive probabiltiy, the book goes beyond this to cover areas such as  circuit complexity and discrepancy theory that rely heavily on  probabilistic arguments. A must read for anyone who wants to add  probablistic tools to their toolbox for proving things about discrete  structures.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R1I1GOLR90KE0T	0471622931	813802697	Pattern Recognition Engineering	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Focuses too much on character recognition	If you are doing work in character recognition, I think you will find  something useful here. Otherwise, skip this book and read Theodoridis's   &quot;Pattern Recognition&quot;. You will find a wealth of  practical and  theoretical information from all walks of pattern recognition in his book.  <br />In short, Nadler's book seems overly specialized, superficial, and  dated.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	R12XHPJM1L7HVM	0133007081	799156989	Discrete Neural Computation: A Theoretical Foundation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good theoretical book on discrete neural networks	This book is more aimed towards researchers in the field of computational  complexity, who are  studying the computational limitations of discrete  neural nets, in terms of depth, size, and connection weights. From this  perspective it seems very good, if not excellent. On the other hand, aside  from coverage of the perceptron learning algorithm and Hopfield networks  the book has little in terms of applications.	2000-09-14
US	50543047	RYI0H809H3OHR	0125993153	718206366	A Course in Mathematical Statistics, Second Edition	Books	5	21	23	N	N	An excellent calculus-based statistics book.	This is one of the best math books I have ever read. It's level of difficulty falls somewhere between a lower-division and graduate course on statistics. I would recommend it for anyone who wants to understand the  mathematical principles leading to the great results that are typically  spoonfed to Freshman stat. students. Roughly 40% of the book reviews  probability, while the remaining text draws on these chapters while  developing the mathematical theory of statistics. I was pleased with the  numerous concrete examples, and the numerous excercises which for the most  part were similar to the examples. From reading this book I gained an  appreciation for the subject, and it's place in mathematics. I now consider  statistics as one of the well-developed crown jewels of mathematics, as  opposed to my previous view of it as a superficial branch of math that  lacked rigor.	2000-05-01
