US	50552104	R2G0PZ6P2VO2GG	0134425421	153616074	The Story of the Salem Witch Trials	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Poor Performance of a very good Story.	Although very detailed, packed with information, I would not go as far as calling this book a narrative as the Amazon Review did. LeBeau very likely choses his words and it all looks good -a tight summary of a very interesting topic, good language, etc. I started reading with a vengeance but shortly after the first 50 pages I got extremely bored by the book, because in combination with the language and the huge amount of compressed data, I simply was not able to both stay interested in the topic and remember all the incidents. I think if somebody would count the names that appear on those 300 pages, you'd probably get a few thousands. Of course you get a date to every person that appears in the book and of course you get a lot of cross-references to persons the author already mentioned. In my opinion this is not a very good book because you can't use it just for quick reference like a good encyclopedia (because that's exactly what it is with these tons of information)nor can you just dip into it for a good read. The only thing that saved at least three stars for the book is the story itself. And it was written by one of the most powerful author's of all time.<BR>History itself. The Salem Witch Trials is a story of betrayal, superstition, murder, conspiration, corrupt small town politics ... something one can still consider as a methaphor for modern life, because there still are these things after all.	2001-09-07
US	50552104	R1AF4R6MYYQ8C0	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Small Town Vampire Tale	In my opinion Salem's Lot definitely is the second best modern vampire story ever told. Richard Matheson's &quot;I Am Legend&quot; is the best. <br />This is a typical Stephen King book: quiet small town, mysterious stranger arrives and settles in the Marsten House (which has already a history of its own), vampires start to knock on your windows. The story is fast-paced, with well-written characters, and interesting twists and turns that make the hair at the base of your neck stand up. <br />And even if you have already read it, it's certainley a book you can reread without losing the original thrilling atmosphere you experienced when diving into the story for the first time.	2001-09-07
US	50552104	RHICVHWAOJL6P	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This is fantasy just the way it has to be.	I bought the Collector's Edition of this title - unfortunately it seems that it is no longer available from Amazan directly, but maybe it is listed in one of the z-shops. The CE is really nice, bound in leather, gold-randered pages, an original drawing of Harry Potter by the author. But the story between the heavy leather covers is just fantastic.<br />This is an extraordinary return to fiction in the range of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings - although it is definitely no reflection of this fantasy classic as another reviewer mentioned. This is a very original book, beautifully written, full of heart and full of mind - a rare combination only the person can achieve who writes not for a living but lives for writing.<br />By the way, this is no children's book! As a matter of fact, I imagine the book to be very creepy for somebody who still goes to Elementary School. I enjoyed reading. There are lots of wizards, dragons, flying broomsticks, and loads of magic.<br />This is fantasy just the way it has to be.	2001-09-06
US	50552104	R3LNZ30EBHVXV2	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hannibal's back / It's full-time Hannibal this time	The level of satisfaction you gain from this book depends on how you look at it. If you look at it as a sequel, as a follow-up to &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot;, you might call it poor, because it just can notget out of it's mother's shadow. Looking at the book that way it is not only poor but a shame. That would be 3 stars, I guess.<br />But if you come around to think that this is NO follow-up, but just another book featuring Hannibal Lecter, it might be the most satisfying book of that series (Red Drago - Silence - Hannibal, because it gives you unlimited inside into Hannibal Lecter, uncut and uncensored access to his mind ... and his brutality. ****<br />I do not think that my job as a reviewer of this book is to give you an exact summary of the plot, even if you claim you have to know something about the book's storyline to decide whether it suits your expectations or it does not. I will not even give you a rough pictue of the plot, but I give one thing: this book is worth reading. If you liked SOTL, because you were fascinated by Hannibal Lecter, read this book. Even if you liked the whole character of this unique thriller more, read Hannibal, even if - for you it is a follow-up.<br />When Harris comes to describing Lecter's mind you will come to realize that this is one of the most awkward pieces of writing you have ever experienced. <br />There are some pretty strange scenes in this book, so be prepared. You might even call these scenes a little bit &quot;weird&quot; but who are you and me to decide? After all this was a very satisfying read, once again showing that Thomas Harris is an author worth reading!	2001-08-10
US	50552104	RMIW6BQGRR90O	0833526243	803978188	The Tommyknockers (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Milestone	I think that this book is a true milestone in King's work, something you can not compare to his literary landmarks like &quot;It&quot;, &quot;The Stand&quot;, &quot;Insomnia&quot;, &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot;, &quot;Bag of Bones&quot; (I could go on like this for a whole load of more titles, because there are so many of really good books by King but it's close - let's leave it at that. <br />First of all, I have to express a certain feeling of shock, because there are so many reviews that just do not do this book any justice. Second, there are lot of positive reviews, although - they are well-written, I read some of them - they are much too long. I too have a tendency to get short things long (see?), but I want to stick to my main concerns this time!<br />A lot of people will try to convince you of the contrary, but this book is ORIGINAL. In a way, this story is originality itself. Or have you ever heard of a western novelist who stumbles across the edge of an alien space-ship while taking her dog out through the woods? This may sound a bit cynic - at least it does to me -, but it is a very good beginning, the first sentences already are something worth of mental achievement. I like too recall certain passages from this book from time to time, while I realize that I have to read it again soon. <br />To put it in a nut-shell: the plot is a thrilling heart-jolter, the language is alive and very strong, maybe not as strong as it has been in &quot;It&quot;, but still very healthy, the characters start to caputre yourself, pulling you deep into their lives, letting you witness the pure horror that splits their silent world apart. <br />The Tommyknockers is, beside the well-done writing job and the absolutely gripping story, a tale told in old-fashioned Stephen Kingish: first, there WAS the quiet small-town with its quiet inhabitants, THEN there IS the horror ... and when I say horror, Johnny, I m-e-a-n HORROR!	2001-08-10
US	50552104	R2SQF7TH2D6NWO	0684867621	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon : A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	... not only the &quot;world has teeth&quot;	Beware: this book is - although made of very simple ingredients - very scary. What do you get if you take Red Sox' Tom Gordon's #1 fan, a young girl who struggles with her parent's marriage and her brother, put her on a walk along the Appalaichan Trail and make her get lost? A nightmare showing Stephen King's true craft: making an extraordinary story out of an ordinary thought.  The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon deals with the psychological terrors of loneliness and fading hope of ever being rescued; of the lurking dread that somewhere behind you, deep in the woods, is a monster, that is real, very real ...<br />... until Trisha finally confronts her true enemy, the monster, the thing of the woods, she has to defeat in a thrilling showdown that pushes you on the edge of your seat und ripps your nervs like a butcher. This book will definitely make your teeth grind, because it is very tense Stephen King at his best - at least in a way, if you stick to the fact, that it is an ordinary thought, but an extraordinary story.<br />At the end of this book you will come to realize that sometimes the love for the true thing - for that one thing (whatever that is to you) you like best - is the only thing you got ... and the only thing you can fall back on, because it is YOUR thing. Maybe you will even get a few foot steps closer to that thing of yours!	2001-08-09
US	50552104	R2DBI6U40BKJFR	0880015411	200837453	Tales Of Lovecraft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lovecraft for Starters	Oates provides a nice collection of mature HPL stories which might be a nice introduction for everyone who has not made acqaintance with Lovecraft's work yet.  Included are stories such as, The Shunned House, Rats in the Walls (great!), The Outsider, The Dunwich Horror -&gt; mature works!<br />The stories provided by this selction are very dark, true gothic horror stories which won't disappoint any fan of the genre. Reading Lovecraft's language is like looking at a painting by Van Gogh or Da Vinci - overwhelming!<br />Lovecraft's words are very sensitive for the story they tell, very true to the heart of the darkness within, as haunting as seeing a ghost by yourself.	2001-08-08
US	50552104	R36TWVAAZRMQAZ	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	4	0	2	N	N	An almost classic piece of Literature	The story, divided into three parts, starts with the summer of 1958 when the main character is still a 4-year-old child and her mother, the beautiful Marion Cole, fells in love with her husband's assisstent, 16-year-old Eddie O'Hare.<br />The terrific elements of extreme tragic, pathos and broad humor which are just typical for John Irving - and which seem to be the main reason for Irving's big success at writing one bestseller after the other - capture you right from the beginning on, pulling you deep into the sad and sometimes very funny world of Irving's characters.<br />M. Cole has to deal with the great loss of her beloved sons who died in a car crash and with her womanizing husband, Ted, who actually brings home the bacon by writing creepy children's books, but prefers to spend is spare-time seducing young mothers and drawing pornographic portraits of them before telling them to take a hike. <br />Richly detailed Irving tells the intense relationship that develops between Eddie and Marion, who both now that their relationship is only temporary and not going to last.<br />At the end of part I, Marion leaves Ted and Ruth (the child, whom she is not able to love since the terrible death of her two boys - Eddie somehow reminds her of) ... and Eddie who returns home with a broken heart. <br />Part II shows Ruth cole as a fully grown-up, successful writer, while Eddie who still loves her mother is a miserable writer with books like &quot;Sixty Times&quot; who all refer to the time he had spent with Marion (and all of his books deal with the great sex he had with her. Although Ruth is the literary equivalent to a Hollywood superstar, she is all but happy in her life until she finally fells in love with Alan Albright, her editor.<br />Remember the pathos/tragic/etc-thing? Alan dies of course, Ruth is a widow for one year, until she fells in love for a second time, this time with the Amsterdam cop Harry Hoekstra who tracks her down (and instantly fells in love with her, too) when a prostitute is found dead and there is only one witness ...<br />Take a guess.<br />Part III: With Harry Ruth finally manages to find eternal happiness, finally she is able to leave her strange feelings for her father (she does not know wheter to love or hate him for the way he is) behind, Marion shows up again.<br />Irving's &quot;Widow for one year&quot; deals with love, passion, and fugacity, a well-told tale of dramatic lives woven together through live and death, I can only recommend anyone to read.<br />And do not think this is a book for women only, because it deals with love, etc.  I am not women either and I enjoyed reading this book very much, altough it is definitely not what I am usually reading. I like to read horror, si-fi, and fantasy-stories, but mostly I read everything I can get my hands on - and this book is just worth reading, not only because it is a very well-crafted story, but also because it is a very talented work of art, a good example of who proper writing should be done. If you still have your doubts about this book, just shove 'em behind and start reading. It is sure worth the time and an experience you will not forget too soon.<br />Just one more thing: I gave this book only four stars, because there were some small parts in between I did not like too much - but four crowns still is pretty good, isn't it? Decide for yourself!	2001-08-08
US	50552104	R1FG4IBH87G2LR	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fantastic	That's all I have to say about this very rich work of fantasy which has become a classic in modern literature.  My only advice: if you have not read it yet, please read it before watching the movie.	2001-08-01
US	50552104	R3GN6E73UT11O	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Classic Stephen King	Blood and Smoke deals with the typical smoker: the one that desperately dreams of giving it up and simultaneously can't live without it(it's just like that thing with women, can't live with 'em, but can't live without 'em either - sorry, my first line just reminded me of this old saying).    Smoking is carefully woben into the kas (for those of you who have not made acquaintance with King's Dark Tower series and books like Insomnia and Rose Madder yet where he occasionally drops this term, it does mean &quot;fate&quot; or &quot;live&quot; seen in a more interconnected context)of the three main characters who join you on this 4 hour (just a guess) experience; it also connects with the sudden impacts of events that shatter the lives of these three guys and makes the stories King has to tell unique. Although King has written a lot of better stories, this set of three short stories read by King himself is classic story-telling, it's just good old-fashioned (not Wendy's hamburgers but) Stephen King, who starts reading when me made ourselves comfortable in our favorite chair and starts pushing when you are not prepared for it - shoving us into the world of these three guys ... shoving us into the live of the smoker with all the dangers that are ready to jump right on him.    The package this cd-set comes in also is a nice exemple for taking pride in your work. The package looks like a huge pack of King-sized Marlboros with Stephen King's head in the middle. The pack even bears a Surgeon General's warning, making you realize that with opening this package and inserting the first cd into your player you get hooked immedeately ... on three unfiltered tales of blood and smoke.	2001-08-01
US	50552104	RX26KT2Z5COM1	0404051138	933668393	013: Complete Works of Edgar Allen Poe	Books	5	6	11	N	N	speechless...	...that's what this book makes me. I honestly do not know what there is left to say about one of the greatest horror writers of all times. this book is essential - so if you like reading horror, gothic, etc. stories and you have never read a story by EAP, shame on you.<br />If you never even heard of EAP, shame on you even more!<br />But if you don't own this book, &quot;you shalt not be suffered to live&quot;!!!!(sorry for dramatizing, but buy this (*) book!!!!!!!! And read it of course, not only buy it and put it on your shelf because it looks nice and when you show it to people, they all say, wow, you got a great collection - they say this, at least one of them says this, because he knows what proud 'n' lucky son you are to own such a beautiful book -&gt; not beautiful because it is thick hardcover edition bound in leather with golden renderings on the pages on golden imprints on the front and back cover.<br />Legite: (Amazon does not provide pictures for The Complete Works of EAP, and because there are several books in hardcover bearing this title, I do not know which of these books matches the description of the book's design featured in the end, so do not blame me if you buy THIS book because you liked how it does look - if you care for design, take a look around. There has to be some way to retrieve information about the book's design.)	2001-08-01
US	50552104	RMAWWDQVGXB9P	0156837501	74781857	Solaris	Books	5	0	0	N	N	overwhelming	This book is not only a work of science fiction, but of love and loss with a terrific mixture of pathos, drama and a large scale of suspense. I read this novel during one night, finishing it about six o'clock in the morning. It was unputdownable, absolutely fantastic. <br />The story is not only extremely sharp-written, but dark and scary. The disgust and horror Chris feels after being confronted with his dead wife really gets beneath your skin. This is essential read for everybody who likes fantasy, sci-fi, horror books. The only thing I did not enjoy where the very long passages where Lem torments us with scientific details and boring data about physics and science. <br />Nevertheless this is a five star book for me.	2001-07-25
US	50552104	R31DZ43D5H3WVZ	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	1	3	N	N	&quot;mighty&quot; fine story	When starting to read this book I had no clue what it was supposed to be about. The inside flaps and the back cover  keeps everything vague, just admitting that it is about a '50s farmboy, his family, their farm hands, and the crop. This sounds a little like a nice little family story maybe even similiar to Tom Sawyer - and actually it is. <br />A story of a moving quality of experiences and consequences,  with other words a fine read. I don't want to talk about the book's story, because I think it is good not to know what a book really is about until you learn it from the book itself. You also could say the one of the best things about the book is that the publisher does not betray the reader and give him an idea of what the story is about - you might argue how you should chose a book if you don't have a clue what it is about. Well, as for this book, the story on the flaps and the book cover is indeed sufficient.<br />To cut right to the chase, the book is good, because the story is fine. It is a story maybe a little inspried by works of  Mark Twain and Charles Dickens although the literary quality definitely is not comparable with that of these authors. What I want to say is, the book is fine for a John Grisham. I have all of his books so far, and liked most of them, but entirely for their story and not for the writing, which is something  I can't combine with a true writer - which Grisham positively is not. He is after all a lawyer who started writing and that's why all of his books where at least in some way about a lawyer except this one. This is not a bad thing - under circumstances -, but it is, if it is all you get for about eleven years or so. Lots of his books are boring or have at least too much lawyer 'n' courtroom stuff which makes it boring.<br />This book obviously is different. There are no lawyers, no courtroom, nothing Grisham can identify with if he would not have grown up on a farm himself. I don't know if Grisham himself decided that his lawyerssuck or if he just figured out that  a change of scenery could pay more bills. <br />Let's be honest: although this book is nice and pretty, really moving and so on, it is somehow artificial, appears to be at least, because Grisham desperately tried to change his reputation and to make something that could get his writing some fresh air. As I said, this book is good, and really treasureable, because it might be the best one Grisham has ever written, and, as I said, it's a fine story. Despite the fact that Grisham is doomed to write like a lawyer who started writing - with little literary beauty and grace, with bare words - this book is good, because for the first time in his career - it seems to me - he at least tried to give his writing more beauty and grace, making his characters deeper and more identifyable (although the seven year old narrator is kind of a satire to every seven year old kid - the kid's an ex-lawyer who started writing and is more than forty years old - and strongly reminds me of Calvin in the Calvin&amp;Hobbes comics by Bill Watterson) - which he accomplished at times. I especially liked the ending about the book, because it was pathetic and somehow dramatic, the slight reflection of the quality works by Stephen King and John Irving have. <br />In my opinion, if you are not one of those complete courtroom freaks - I honestly can't understand these folks, why would anybody like The Rainmaker or A Time To Kill except a lawyer, but these are supposed to be books and not trial protocolls, e.g. - this is a book everybody should read who likes OR does NOT like J. Grisham, because all of you might be in for some surprises. <br />I liked the book very much, even if it was partially shallow and artificial, but I liked the narrator's tone, even if the idea that it is supposed to be the voice of a 7-year-old is ridiculous. Sometimes you just got to shut up that old critic that lives in the very all of us and just enjoy a story that is of good craftmanshipand good heart. It will give your live a new perspective, for some time at least, as long as the story's still fresh in your mind, and - if nothing else - at least entertain you. <br />What's more important than to retrieve a little entertainment out of the gray routines most of us call their lives?	2001-07-23
US	50552104	RYDQU628H0UCM	1573226521	117734468	The Beach	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Impressive!	A hot book, fast paced, well-written, words sharper than razor blades, powerful characters, interesting through-out! This book is absolutely fantastic, the character of Richard is described so well, so ALIVE that you just become him - in a way - while reading, even becoming a part of his menacing memories of the Vietnam war.  The only reason I gave it 4 stars is, because it takes about 200 pages until something happens, you might call a trigger to later events and there on to the big showdown at the end of the book. The first 200 pages are constructed very well, just like the last, but it kind of just shuffles along, giving us the beach life, the adventure of being stranded on an unknown island. These elements are important to build up a story, but chewed on for too long when it comes to creating the right circumstances for bad things to happen. All I want to say is, that Garland although writing well, had some problems with keeping the story fluid. Put these aside and you got a very thrilling, invloving read, you will remember for a long time - and enjoy much longer, even when you are finished.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R1D0DBS5D276VY	0345433165	990014722	The Right Hand of Evil	Books	3	1	3	N	N	suspenseful, but nothing more	this is true trivial literature. i bought this book in a supermarket and i got exactly what i was buying, something a supermarket is full of. a mass-product.  i suppose this book - it is the only one that i have ever read by saul and as far as i am concerned there won't be any more - was written to sell but not to really get to you. saul does not care about REALLY entertaining his readers, about really satisfying them - in my opinion, the only thing he cares about is his wallet. as long as there are enough of those ben franklins in it, he won't write something more substantial. the writing is awful, the characters are shallow and superficial, the father of the family the book's about is the perfect stereotype of an alcoholic, the story is about some mysterious on-goings because of voodoo, involving a dark and bloody family history, a haunted house, and some scenes of stupid blood 'n' guts just to make it, i don't know - &quot;spooky&quot;? - &quot;scary&quot;? <br />I don't know and I don't really much care about this book. As I said, story's bad, charcter's bad, writing's bad, nevertheless, there are some enjoyable scenes, all in all the book's suspenseful, but, believe me, nothing more. If you were looking for a cheap kick I probably would recommend this book to you, but because I am talking to some serious readers here, I say: forget about it. if somebody gave it to you - like as a present - pass it on. you won't miss anything and you won't regret it. thanks for listening.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R17CKRLURD9LNU	0689107072	129690404	Saratoga Longshot	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Opening Act of the Saratoga Crime Series	This is a classic crime story, simultaneously the first book in Stephen Dobyn's Saratoga crime series, introducing Charlie Bradshaw and the almost legendary Victor Plotz, who get to each other, when Charlie is trying to track down a missing teenager from his hometown who has left for the Big Apple. I don't want to tell more about the plot, because I think telling more would be cheating on those brave readers outta there who want their books the same way John Travolta liked his steak in Pulp Fiction - &quot;bloody as hell, just don't cook it!&quot; - which means, translated into book-language: &quot;shut up, I want to find out what it is about for myself, don't you dare to tell me something about the plot!&quot;<br />The book description by Amazon is more than sufficient and if I tell you that this is a mystery book about crime and one cool cop, this has to satisfy you. I mean, read the book, you'll see what it's about soon enough. <br />The book is packing, has niveau and good writing and if you liked other books by Stephen Dobyns, read´it. If you've never heard of Stephen Dobyns before, read it. But if you want an earlier version of &quot;Boy in the Water&quot; or &quot;Church of Dead Girls&quot; forget about it. ALthough all of his books are about crime the setting in Longshot is completely different to the two books mentioned above. The main character is a small town cop, maybe somehow eccentric that old fellow, who lives for wild west legends and uses stories about them to explain situations in his own life. But don't worry, this is no book about gunslingers of the ol' wild west, but about one modern gunslinger, an open-minded, caring guy, who is stubborn and sticks to his promises - a cop from Saratoga Springs.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R17EN07YBU60KB	0805060200	351248779	Boy in the Water	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Tense	The season this book is set - fall and winter - absolutely capture you with the golden days of autumn, sunny during the day, but getting chilly in the afternoon and the snowy, white-and-cold days of winter together with the story that occurs during these days, tense and full of mystery, delivered by excellent prose as smooth and clean as a freshly fallen blanket of snow.  This novel is haunting and spookey and in some way even better than &quot;Church of the Dead Girls&quot; - a poetic thriller, if there exists something like that.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R1BE4YTM0CUKUX	0060976624	408140508	Thank You for Smoking	Books	5	0	0	N	N	lucky strike	this funny, satirical, sharp-witted novel is something that will make you scream with laughter.  to be read by both smokers and non-smokers.  hilarious &amp; cynical, after having read this book you will never look at smoking the same way again - don't get me wrong, this is no book of the how's and about's to quit smoking (but you might consider taking a job as a spokesman for a tobacco company. Buckley's words are harsh and unforgiving, he blurts things right out, the result = 100% pure unfiltered entertainment. a great story that just'll give you a lucky strike with every page you turn!	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R2AIH45FUBUBBP	0553106651	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fine Language, Only Nice Plot	From my point of view this book deserves five stars for style &amp; writing, while character description/development gets 4, story + plot only 3. That gets me to an average of 4 stars, but only because you can give it a 3 and a half.  The book is absolutely thriling, gripping seizing, a page-turner, but the plot is just to exaggerated and in the end gets really dumb, because there are too much coincidences, just a lot of action laid out during the whole book and in the end desperately tried to put in context with the general story. This book reads like a good action-movie, but like every action movie this book lacks of brains - whole lot of a pity, because I liked the characters, I could feel with Chris Snow, feel his love for his girl friend and Orson his dog, experience the friendship with Bobby, etc., but the story is even for a work of fiction too capillotract and unrealistic. The general idea of the book is good, although that there are two different ideas, two different books all put together, compressed into 400 pages or something. There's the crime story with the serial kid-napper - with all it's side-stories and occurrences a story for itself, featuring all the charcters. Then you got the sci-fi novel, about the Mystery Train Project, Snow's Mother, her death and so on. Again you got all the characters, again you got a book for itself. Unfortunately Koontz tries to connects these to plots - this might sound pretty much sophisticated for most of us: wow, popular writer, a real genius, know what, chuck, he got two different stories and - know what? - in the end it all fits together! Well it's together in the end - you get it all in the big, ponderous finale, the kid-napper &amp; and the horror of the mysterious Mystery Train, there you get the whole fix - but that's not the problem. The problem is, that these two stories, although brought together, don't fit. It's that simple.    Looked at in that perspective, Koontz' &quot;Seize the Night&quot; seems like the work of a pretty bad wannabe-writer - if not for his absolutely likable characters and his astounding words, that glitter like a golden spark of silver in the moonlight. Maybe you can seize the night after all, with your bedlamp turned on brightly, the book unfolded on your lap, windows closed, doors locked.  If you stick to the prose you can't do much harm with this book. It will entertain you until page 200, then it will make you angry about the dumb ending, in between you'll find some chills and scares, not cheap but valuable.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R17QUJSKTKNXHQ	0670858692	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	4	0	0	N	N	To Those Who Don't Like This Book:	.... All in all this is a good book, although the thing with Norman's rubber bull's mask was a little stupid, appeared to be to me at least, but the story about Rose, who her character unfolds during the development of the novel, who she enters the mystical world of Rose Madder - that's great, really great. In my eyes this is a very classic Stephen King, very classic writing, very classic elements of story, but on the other hand it is not. It is a wonderful story of love, lost, and pain, a story that has its own mythology, its own pace and most of all a character made out of flesh and blood, not of ink and paper. Rose is a woman you can see, hear, feel, touch ... she is as true, as this story is - because it is true to the most important thing about a book: the story itself.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R8L6SMP9F6RF1	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A roller-coaster ride of intelligence that ...	... takes your breath away. Like he did with Jurassic Park MC again carefully backs his story up with solid facts of scientific facts, that might not work out when trying at home, but prove to be perfect when it comes to send a team of young academics and hardcore-adventurers back in time to save their professor who did not return from his test run to the medial age.<br />Imagine to go back in time, to find yourself among knights and childes, beautiful maids and dark conspirators, secrets and of course adventure like you have never experienced before.  This book is written with such an amount of intelligence and page-turning action that it makes you dizzy. <br />Definitely something that has to be read several times, so buy the hardcover edition.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R204A1VY9GL0BU	0684852217	55789944	Close Range: Wyoming Stories	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Rough and Raw - Just like the Land is	A short story collection that sure deserve attention. First of all, the writing is absolutely impressive. It takes you to Wyoming, takes you there pretty close, beneath an open sky of all possible colors and hard, sunburned land that turn's into dust, when your boots hit it.  The stories are refreshingly weird (in a positive way, understood?!), grabbing the reader by his collor and tearing him out of everyday life .... Her [Annie Proulx's] work is a gift. Reading a pleasure, time spent in a purpose, like \\"the path is the destination\\". Mighty good read with a literary quality to it that makes your heart pound take up a step and your eyes moving faster over the pages, anxious to devour them. Howdy.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	REUFX5P8XE68S	0140585842	421024422	Cemetery Nights (Poets, Penguin)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Mature Work	This collection of poems that give you the feel of very short short stories from time to time, is a remarkable, respectable piece of work. Stephen Dobyns who's maybe known for his Saratoga crime series and recent successes like \\"Boy In The Water\\" or \\"The Church Of Dead Girls\\" is two things at one time: a writer of mystery and crime stories ... and a poet. The beautiful, astounding way of Dobyns is how he interconnects those two styles, that give his words not only imaginary power when it comes to good fiction but also deep insight and a very dark touch that makes the hairs on the back of your neck step up and cold water running down your back while the somkey winds of apocalypse and doom caress your face.     Cemetery Nights is the evidence for everybody that SD has become a master of these two styles, his vivid imagination and that dark feel his work produces. It is a mature work, a comforting refuge for those of you who seek literary pleasure. <br />His words are powerful, like ice-cold fingers prying gripholds into your memory so that they will remain there for ever, verbal fingerprints engraved in your mind, like letters hatched in the stone of a grave ... on a gloomey cemetery night.    Stroll through hidden paths of darkness, desire, longing, death as well as life and maybe, if the moon shines just right and there are no gray clouds torn in front of the night's only light, you see a reflection of yourself in the smooth surface of a gravestone ... but beware of the dead, they don't pass away erverytime, because in death everything is contrary to life - so death means life and life is death.<br />An Advice: because this book is unavailable here that does positively not mean that there is no way to lay your hands on it. This book is a literary milestone, something everybody who treasures reading has to leaf through at least once.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R1VIN5P6390ET8	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	simple but strong	The story is simple, as is the idea: bestselling novelist gets rescued by his number one fun - a freak, mentally disturbed, can't live without her favorite author anymore, helds him prisoner, he can't flee because his legs are broken ... There is more. With intriguing psychology Stephen King tells the story of a man, captured in his worst nightmare.  He has lost his freedom, but with the book going on, one finds out that there is much more to loose than that. There is digníty and self-respect for one thing. But there also is the manuscript of maybe the best book you've ever accomplished to write, or your foot. There sure is life, but after you lost the things mentioned before, lost them maybe forever, because there is no hope of rescue, that does not sound like a threat any more. But what about losing your mind - especially if it is not you who is loosing it, but the person you depend on, because you almost died in a near to fatal car accident, can't move, can't do nothing without somebody helping you - and this somebody's the one who loses her mind. Step for step. Day for day. No help in sight. You are bound to a bed, later to a wheelchair, because that person - your #1 fan - forces you to bring back to life a person you killed ... And what if that person who's literally nuts, is not only cruel and mean - not only CROSS - but a murderer and you depend on her, are locked up into one little house together with this person, secluded from all civilization, isolated from all possible help. It's winter, the snow's falling hard, the roads are closed, no chance there's somebody coming out there. With rare talent and writing skills Stephen King describes both the prisoner and his guard, taking the reader deep into the minds of both persons, which are so intense, especially the author's tormentor, that you get afraid of her. King lets express her character through her freakish words and her brutal but deranged actions and draws the picture of a very real and very threatening character which makes your flesh creep and your blood run cold. You even start to feel disgust and hatred for that character who is capable of unthinkable cruelty. Read during winter while at your hunting cabin in the woods, miles from other homes or possible help - read and you will start to loose ...<br />A fantastic read.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R1F2X427HPOZIO	0553106651	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fine Language, Only Nice Plot	From my point of view this book deserves five stars for style &amp; writing, while character description/development gets 4, story + plot only 3. That gets me to an average of 4 stars, but only because you can give it a 3 and a half.  The book is absolutely thriling, gripping seizing, a page-turner, but the plot is just to exaggerated and in the end gets really dumb, because there are too much coincidences, just a lot of action laid out during the whole book and in the end desperately tried to put in context with the general story. This book reads like a good action-movie, but like every action movie this book lacks of brains - whole lot of a pity, because I liked the characters, I could feel with Chris Snow, feel his love for his girl friend and Orson his dog, experience the friendship with Bobby, etc., but the story is even for a work of fiction too capillotract and unrealistic. The general idea of the book is good, although that there are two different ideas, two different books all put together, compressed into 400 pages or something. There's the crime story with the serial kid-napper - with all it's side-stories and occurrences a story for itself, featuring all the charcters. Then you got the sci-fi novel, about the Mystery Train Project, Snow's Mother, her death and so on. Again you got all the characters, again you got a book for itself. Unfortunately Koontz tries to connects these to plots - this might sound pretty much sophisticated for most of us: wow, popular writer, a real genius, know what, chuck, he got two different stories and - know what? - in the end it all fits together! Well it's together in the end - you get it all in the big, ponderous finale, the kid-napper &amp; and the horror of the mysterious Mystery Train, there you get the whole fix - but that's not the problem. The problem is, that these two stories, although brought together, don't fit. It's that simple.    Looked at in that perspective, Koontz' &quot;Seize the Night&quot; seems like the work of a pretty bad wannabe-writer - if not for his absolutely likable characters and his astounding words, that glitter like a golden spark of silver in the moonlight. Maybe you can seize the night after all, with your bedlamp turned on brightly, the book unfolded on your lap, windows closed, doors locked.  If you stick to the prose you can't do much harm with this book. It will entertain you until page 200, then it will make you angry about the dumb ending, in between you'll find some chills and scares, not cheap but valuable.	2001-07-18
US	50552104	R2B056R3G8PAIJ	0671024248	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Drift Away Towards Atlantis	With Stephen King books it's just like with smoking - you just can't kick the habit. This is a book of rare literate quality and certainley something King can be proud of.  Hearts In Atlantis take us back to the early sixties, takes us back to where hearts are. The first two stories of the book which consists of five inter-connected short-stories, are one of the best words I 've ever read. They are nostalgic, impulsive and sort of alive, like holding a beating heart in your hand, feeling it pumping, struggling and twisting between your fingers. The atmosphere, King creates, makes you feel you really kind of stranded in a period more than forty-five years ago. I'd say, this book is a true landmark in American literature, but I won't say no more, because telling the story would be like cheating on your classmate. Read the book yourself, face an forgotten era's atlantis.	2001-04-08
US	50552104	R1UDGU2XVU2FR8	0440234743	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	7	7	N	N	sudden adventure-ridden dive into the brasilian jungle	After three books which lacked excitement that was not even accomplished with narrational extravagancies - although that does not say that the &quot;Runaway Jury, The Partner or The Street-Lawyer&quot; were bad books, it just means, that the Testament is a surprisingly fresh wind after a long period of strictly legal thrillers. After having finished reading The Partner I felt almost convinced that John Grisham was rapidly running out of ideas, all lights turned red, self-destruction on hand,T minus 30 secondes, you know what I mean. I've read every single book by JG and there are only two I absolutely don't like. His first, &quot;A Time To Kill&quot; (too long, too uninteresting) and &quot;The Rainmaker&quot; (only touching if you are a lawyer. There are 3 I love. &quot;The Firm&quot;, &quot;The Chamber&quot; and &quot;The Testament&quot;. The &quot;Pelican Dossier&quot;, &quot;The Client&quot; and all books after the Rainmaker are good as well, but consider the first three as classics. The Testament takes you on a hysterical trip into Brasilian swamps, countdown clock ticking restlessly away, you join the hero, Nate, on his mission to find the heir of one very rich son-of-an-out-of-a-window-hopper. Nate's struggling with his booze-addiction, while facing existential failure. His assignment seems to be his last chance. After three books JG finally managed to create a character you could feel and absolutely identify with - even if you're not one of the hard-boiled kinda folks who drink 2 bottles of vodka in less 3 or 4 hours and wake up the next morning - alive! Buy this book in hardcover and put it next to your other JGs - but in a special place. This is a book that really deserves the &quot;laudes&quot;.Maybe it is no coincidence that it marks the end of JGs first decade of writing.	2001-04-06
US	50552104	RF62FCYO5HGGF	080505104X	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Awesome	stephen dobyns is a master, a genius who did not get the popularity his name deserves, and this book is just a way to proove it, although it is not one of my favorite sd books. i initially wanted to spend 3 stars on it, because - for me at least - there where some stains on the white of the paper. but after all i decided to give the book for stars because i did not read it in its original language and i really have to say that the translation had been awful. this was the only book by sd i had read in german and i certainly never again will read one in this  language.  to get back to sd, i have to say, that i appreciate this book because of the way sd unfolds the story before the eyes of the reader, but i prefer some of his younger works - both his poems and his mysteries. although his earlier publications (think of the saratoga crime series, think of cemetery nights, the house on alexandrin, etc.) might have grown a bit rare and you really have to hold your hand over your eyes and look out for them, i recommend them to every fan of sd. his writing gives us the experience of the dark in the word's of a poet - this, i have to say with my head bent down in respect, is absolutely uncommon and rare. and as i said, his books have become a treasure not that easy to achive because the publications of his books were limited to low numbers (especially on his first works) and he did not gain popularity until books like church of dead girls or boy in the water - read it while you still can get it. if you can't get a book you want try the amazon.com out-of-print-store. all i can say is, it worked for me. enjoy your reading.	2001-02-17
