US	50552445	R2092M0BN4RS57	0143035134	876636990	Alexander the Great	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Wordy Bio of Alex	This is a well written, but wordy account of Alexander.  Since this book was the inspiration for the Oliver Stone movie that may not be a good recommendation for it!  What the author tries to do is bring together all the fragmentary knowledge we have concerning Alexander and discusses it in depth.  He does bring a wide knowledge of ancient history to support the known views on his subject, and certain topics are debated here far more than in other biographies.<br /><br />At times the book almost reads like an historical detective work where the reader is placed down with the author to try and dig around the known and possibly unknown facts.  Its a compelling technecque that I have not seen done before.  At times though the narrative strays far from its topic, and analysis often takes over from pure study of historical facts.  This can be difficult for the reader not well versed in the history of Alexander's complex life.  The auhtor also assumes certain controversial opinions which have become popular recently.  For one I do not necessarily agree with his very brief description of the Granicus Battle.  Mr. Fox seems to belong to the revisionist school here asserting that the battle never took place as we have supposedly been lead to believe.  Alexander and the Companion cavalry did not rush across the Granicus into the teeth of the Persia lines, but instead after some mysterious initial set-back crossed further down and fought the battle on the other side of the river on open ground.  This theory was put forth by Peter Greene in his largely negective biography of Alexander's life and Fox seems to buy the same theory here.  For sure the ancient sources are vague, as they always are, but I think a lot of reading between the lines may be going on here to come up with something new.<br /><br />Also Mr. Fox asserts that when Alexander invaded India the phalanx infantry discarded their long sarisa spears!  All the evidence suggests that the phalanx sarisa was crucial in defeating Porus's elephants at the Hydespes.  For such a statement to be made leads one to question Mr. Fox's knowledge on the military aspects of Alexander's career.  The fact that footnotes are not included in the body of the text may also bother some scholars.<br /><br />The good writing is what largely holds this work together, and some of the insightful views and opinions, especially concerning the mystery of Alexander's death are certainly worthwhile.  Those seeking a military analysis will not find that here.  Fox for the most part provides only cursory information on the battles.  This is more a pyschological and investigative biography and it does provide many good insights.  First time readers may find some of these views and opinions confusing.  A good background of Alexander's life is required to get the most out of this book.  I would suggest reading one of the older works out there first before tackling this book.  That way the reader can see where the difference in perspective are.  But for the above mentioned omissions an otherwise promising and well done work.efeating Porus's elephants at the Hydespes.  For such a statement to be made leads one to question Mr. Fox's knowledge on the military aspects of Alexander's career.  The fact that footnotes are not included in the body of the text may also bother some scholars.<br /><br />The good writing is what largely holds this work together, and some of the insightful views and opinions, especially concerning the mystery of Alexander's death are certainly worthwhile.  Those seeking a military analysis will not find that here.  Fox for the most part provides only cursory information on the battles.  This is more a pyschological and investigative biography and it does provide many good insights.  First time readers may find some of these views and opinions confusing.  A good background of Alexander's life is required to get the most out of this book.  I would suggest reading one of the older works out there first before tackling this book.  That way the reader can see where the difference in perspective are.  But for the above mentioned omissions an otherwise promising and well done work.	2005-09-30
US	50552445	RB9POEHFTJZ8U	039473825X	906665018	The Nature of Alexander	Books	4	11	24	N	N	Mary Renaults's Pet Alex	Mary Renault has always had a thing for Alexander.  With her lesbian background in mid-century UK I guess this is not surprising.  We have her to thank for much of the current fascination with Alexander's alleged homosexualty and such.  This is a compelling work nonetheless, and while the bias and emphasis are obvious and perhaps a bit annoying at times, we can forgive Ms. Renault for being a bit over zealous in her passions.  What she tries to do is provide a rationale for some of Alexander's actions.  Sometimes she can be faulted for reading too much into what limited information we have on him.  Still, this is a passionate look at the man and his times.  There are many Alexander's for us to ponder.  Perhaps because he was so many things to so many different people, and because of the limited documentation many scholars are free to pursue their own views on what he might have been.  Mary Renault is no exception in this regard.  To me Alexander is primarily the Great Captain of history.  He was never defeated in battle, his conquests ranged far and wide, and his tactical abilities were supreme.  He should be remembered for this brilliance as opposed to his sexual proclivities which are important only for those who have certain aggendas to pursue.  True Alexander had many different sides to his character it seems, and his short but full life is packed with all sorts of fascinating events.  His conquests can be divided into many distinct phases toward his character.  Was Alexander a liberalizing influnence who spread Hellenism for the benefit of mankind, or just a thuggish tyrant who ran amok in the decadent Persian Empire.  The verdict shall remain open on this and many other questions involving his life.  For sure this is a very pro-Alex bio.  Renault can see little wrong with even some of his most controversial actions.  But her writing style is grand and elegant, and even if slanted, is perhaps no more so than some of the revivisionist bios we encounter today.  Alexander shall forever suffer from extreme view points.  The nature of his life and achievements seems to make this so even in our own time.  Renault is good at possibly reading into his thought processes at certain key moments of his life, and she paints a compelling portrait of his sense of mystery and pathos which ultimately contributed to his demise as much as anything else might have in the end.lexander shall forever suffer from extreme view points.  The nature of his life and achievements seems to make this so even in our own time.  Renault is good at possibly reading into his thought processes at certain key moments of his life, and she paints a compelling portrait of his sense of mystery and pathos which ultimately contributed to his demise as much as anything else might have in the end. <br />	2005-08-25
US	50552445	RPSJUA838H84K	0306813610	50341204	Alexander	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Spendid Classic	Its good to see the works of Dodge in print again.  His six volumes chronicling the history and development of warfare were classics of their kind.  Written in the 1880s, these books still have a lot to say about this subject.  Granted some of the information on the organiaztion and tactics of ancient armies may be somewhat dated.  Also Dodge's somewhat jaundiced view toward Asian non-western armies may seem a bit out of date in these hyper-politically correct times, but his opinions are always insightful and interesting.<br /><br />What makes this history of Alexander different is the background development of ancient warfare leading up to his time, as well as the purely military analysis.  The reader gets a first-rate discussion of military development and innovation before his time which places the Macedonian army and Alexander in greater perspective.  You won't find this kind of depth in many other histories on Alexander.  Other than JFC Fuller's analysis on Alexander's generalship, there are precious few works that devote much time to this most important aspect of his life.  Whatever else Alexander was, and he was, and remains many different things to different people, he was, first and foremost, a great military genius.  This is what we should remember him most for.  Many more recent works often forget this important aspect, and place too much emphasis on his character.  Many biographers try to read too much into his actions, and have their own agendas to pursue in discussing Alexander's actions.  This must have been so in Dodges day as well as he often comments on this tendency.<br /><br />One of the great things about Dodge is his often candid and frank observations.  His writing style is also smooth and elegant.  Too bad more historians today don't have this style of elegance anymore.  Dodge avoids most of the controversial aspects surrounding Alexander's life, although he will often mention them in passing and offer a brief opinion. The reader is constantly reminded that this is a military analysis of the great Macedonian, not a biographical one.  While Dodge's view is decidely pro-Alexander, he does acknowledge some of the darker aspects of his character.  The reader is left to make his own judgement about these matters.  Like Arrian, Dodge tries to stick to the matter at hand, and throughout maintains a solid and consistent narrative.  The maps and diagrams provided may seem inadequate by today's standards, but they are numerous and very helpful in trying to understand Alexander's battles and campaigns.  More works on Alexander should have maps like this.<br /><br />Dodge provides a fine military narrative of Alexander.  You won't find any mention of the deviant sides of his character, which is so popular today.  For those aspects the reader should turn to the fanciful works of Mary Renault who freely discusses such things.  Dodge's work is an excellent companion to any modern day biography of Alexander.  You won't find any better discussion of the military aspects of his life than in these pages.  Highly recommended for all interested in ancient warfare and the development of military conflict in general.onstantly reminded that this is a military analysis of the great Macedonian, not a biographical one.  While Dodge's view is decidely pro-Alexander, he does acknowledge some of the darker aspects of his character.  The reader is left to make his own judgement about these matters.  Like Arrian, Dodge tries to stick to the matter at hand, and throughout maintains a solid and consistent narrative.  The maps and diagrams provided may seem inadequate by today's standards, but they are numerous and very helpful in trying to understand Alexander's battles and campaigns.  More works on Alexander should have maps like this.   <br /> <br />Dodge provides a fine military narrative of Alexander.  You won't find any mention of the deviant sides of his character, which is so popular today.  For those aspects the reader should turn to the fanciful works of Mary Renault who freely discusses such things.  Dodge's work is an excellent companion to any modern day biography of Alexander.  You won't find any better discussion of the military aspects of his life than in these pages.  Highly recommended for all interested in ancient warfare and the development of military conflict in general.	2005-08-01
US	50552445	R1BGDO4K141RRO	0802141498	570579086	Alexander the Great	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good, But Wordy Account of Alex	With all the recent interest in Alexander its not surprising that biographies new and old are popping up all over the place.  Lewis Cummings 1940 bio of Alexander is certainly not one of the better known, nor is it the most distingished either.  Though written in English his account is often less clear than Ulrich Wilken's German translated bio from a few years earlier.<br /><br />Like most bios this one starts out a bit slow with all the heavy-duty background info. about the orgins of the Macedonians and the development of their monarchy over the centuries.  Cumming's rather wordy explantions does not make this difficult historical background easy to comprehend either.  Despite what is purported as a readable work, the first 50 pages are a real push!<br /><br />Once we pass with background and get into Alexander himself the narrative start to pick up.  Still, Cummings is fond of erodite expressions and typically English round-about explanations.  These often cloud the narrative.  One reviewer noted that since Cummings's was a cartographer how come there are not more maps in the book!  This would certainly help as he is fond of discussing all sorts of obscure place names that Alexander allegedly trammped through.  Most bios don't go into such detail on the locales because many of these places aren't around anymore.  They certainly don't debate the topic as much as here.  For all the descriptions about locales that the author may have seen in person, his actual discussions about Alexander are limited.  There are a few good points made here and there, and when not mentioning obsure hill towns in detail the narrative can actually be good at times.<br /><br />Its hard to figure where Cummings stands with Alex.  One gets the impression he is firm admirer in the first half of his career up until the death of Darius III, but after that he believes his subject just becomes a brutal conqueror.  Some good points here that could have been debated more.  Overall this is an average bio at best.  I would recommend Wilcken's from this period of research more as its concise, debates important points, and is a better read.  This would not be a good first work to read on Alexander in my opinion.  Having read other better works the reader might like to take a look at this one just to compare.  Not one of the better older Alex bios out there for sure.s is an average bio at best.  I would recommend Wilcken's from this period of research more as its concise, debates important points, and is a better read.  This would not be a good first work to read on Alexander in my opinion.  Having read other better works the reader might like to take a look at this one just to compare.  Not one of the better older Alex bios out there for sure.	2005-06-23
US	50552445	RH8YNY41MIP5	0385500998	489310389	The Virtues of War: A Novel of Alexander the Great	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Alexander in Fiction	Alexander has inspired a lot of recent works lately, both in fiction and non-fiction.  Here Pressman attempts to make Alexander speak for himself through his words of advice to a young Bactrian Royal Page.  The artifice of the author is convincing, and I found this portrait of Alexander much more appealing than say Mary Renault's homeo-errotic inuendos in her earlier fictional work on the subject.<br /><br />Pressman provides a military view of Alexander's field battles.  There is very little else here.  He stays mostly with this aspect which some might find limiting.  There is little about the other aspects of his career, and the book stays away from the long sieges of Tyre and Gaza, as well as Alexander's expereinces in Egypt.  What the author is concorned with is providing a portrait of how Aleander lead and inspired in battle.  To have tackled all the other aspects of his life would have made this book more a biograpgy than a work of historical fiction.<br /><br />Pressman's Alexander is both crude and profound.  The use of language is very contemporary at times, here Alexander hardly speaks with the elagance we might associate with his time and place.  Pressman portrays him as a grunt almost, as he does the other Greek soldiers as well.  Alexander was a curious mix between thinker and man of action.  Pressman tries to show his thought process in regars to handling his army.  For the most part he succeeds very well.  Having read several bios of Alexander already it was interesting to see how this author made his subject come alive for the reader.<br /><br />The battle scenes are terrific, and again attmept to show Alexander for the genius that he was on the battlefield.  The atmosphere of the various campaigns leading up to final battle are very convincing and show what the fear and anticipation of battle might have been even for the stern Macedonians.  Pressman shows us the four main battles that he fought.  Cheronea is of great interest for its insights into the Theban Sacred Band and to show how Greeks and Macedonians might have felt fighting each other.  Pressman does not dwell on the more controversial aspects of Alexander's life.  The death of Philip he does not have his Alexander explain. Even the latter assassinations of Philotas, Parmenion, and Cletius are causes for regret, but are quickly explained away by this Alexander.<br /><br />This is an Alexander for the most part of the heroic mold, the more traditional version that most of us know.  It lacks the cyncial outlook of more recent biographical works.  The enjoyment of this book will be greatly enhanced if the reader consults a biograpgy of Alexander either before or after reading it.  The interest of this work is that it provides a means to understand Alexander on a more intimate level.  Whether accurate or flawed, Pressman deserves credit for bringing his subject to life for all of us to enjoy.  His impressive literary effort tries to make us better understand the mind of this amazing and controversial figure of history.hts into the Theban Sacred Band and to show how Greeks and Macedonians might have felt fighting each other.  Pressman does not dwell on the more controversial aspects of Alexander's life.  The death of Philip he does not have his Alexander explain. Even the latter assassinations of Philotas, Parmenion, and Cletius are causes for regret, but are quickly explained away by this Alexander.   <br /> <br />This is an Alexander for the most part of the heroic mold, the more traditional version that most of us know.  It lacks the cyncial outlook of more recent biographical works.  The enjoyment of this book will be greatly enhanced if the reader consults a biograpgy of Alexander either before or after reading it.  The interest of this work is that it provides a means to understand Alexander on a more intimate level.  Whether accurate or flawed, Pressman deserves credit for bringing his subject to life for all of us to enjoy.  His impressive literary effort tries to make us better understand the mind of this amazing and controversial figure of history.	2005-05-10
US	50552445	R2NFNO5IFJOLVL	1400041996	315702599	The Iraq War	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Concise and Brief Account	Keegan is always worth reading.  Since his ground breaking work FACE OF BATTALE his writtings have always been thought provoking.  The recent Iraq War certainly needs a good history.  Most of what you see are shallow combat histories on the subject.  Keegan provides a nice background history of Iraq and Saddam.  There's nothing here that you won't find elsewhere, but its clear and well written.  Keegan always writes well, and he has a knack for summation.<br /><br />In this all to brief account of the conflict, Keegan is deffinitely pro-American in his sentiments.  For a Brit this is perhaps is surprising!  The PC crowd probably won't like his opinions, although his bias is not that obvious.  He finds plenty to criticize in US actions, even if he agrees with the basic policy.  The book reads quickly, fully more than half is taken up with background events, which provides a good foundation for understanding what has made Iraq what it is today.  His summation of the clash between Europe and the USA provides interesting views.  He deffinately does not favor European ideas, and says the French and German positions on the subject are vague and self-interested.  He thinks the new European move toward Suprational government is in for a rude awakening.  He may be right.  Still, some details in the debates are glossed over, and there is never any analysis of the Colin Powell's presentation at the UN which alleged Iraqi WMD possession.  The pictures provided created an impression that subsequnet events did not support.  Keegan widely criticizes the anti-American stance of the media, and believes they ignored many facts in order to make their stories.  Iraqi resistance at Um Qusar was certainly made into a bigger deal than was actually the case.  Keegan does not even mention the fight!<br /><br />Iraqi resistence is shown to be hap-hazzard and weak for the most part.  There was no coordinated effort on their part, and their army was so out-classed that it was almost pointless anyway.  Still, they could have done many things differently to make the coalition effort more difficult.<br /><br />One of the nice things about Keegan is that he provides a wider perspective than most American historians would on this subject.  While he acknowledges the overwhelming US contribution, there is still some attention paid to the British effort around Basra which shows how different the conflcit was there.  Keegan points out the contrast between US and UK forces.  Lacking as much hi-tech, the British make up for this in their professionalism and regimental esprit de corps.  Something which the US army sees as sometimes lacking in its own units.  Except for the Marines and Airborne, most US units cannot claim very strong histories and traditions to bind their personel together in the same fashion as the British.  Its surprising then that not long after the publication of this book the Ministry of Defense in London wants to embark upon a drastic change in the UK forces in order to modernize their eqippment.  Much of these chnages will result in the elimination of many famous regimental names that Keegan mentions in this work.  How ironic!  Even the US army sees how important these traditions are, while the Mod seems blind to them!<br /><br />Keegan provides a nice concise account of the campaign up to Baghdad.  Again its a fast and quick narrative, there are some omissions, but events move rapidly just like the actual campaign.  Some find fault with this book because it does not cover subesquent events of the occupation.  I tend to agree, but I also think Keegan didn't want to go there.  He has left that for another historian.  What we have here is a first-rate narration of events leading up and including the conventional conflict.  This book will provide the general background which many others on this subject lack.intless anyway.  Still, they could have done many things differently to make the coalition effort more difficult.   <br /> <br />One of the nice things about Keegan is that he provides a wider perspective than most American historians would on this subject.  While he acknowledges the overwhelming US contribution, there is still some attention paid to the British effort around Basra which shows how different the conflcit was there.  Keegan points out the contrast between US and UK forces.  Lacking as much hi-tech, the British make up for this in their professionalism and regimental esprit de corps.  Something which the US army sees as sometimes lacking in its own units.  Except for the Marines and Airborne, most US units cannot claim very strong histories and traditions to bind their personel together in the same fashion as the British.  Its surprising then that not long after the publication of this book the Ministry of Defense in London wants to embark upon a drastic change in the UK forces in order to modernize their eqippment.  Much of these chnages will result in the elimination of many famous regimental names that Keegan mentions in this work.  How ironic!  Even the US army sees how important these traditions are, while the Mod seems blind to them!   <br /> <br />Keegan provides a nice concise account of the campaign up to Baghdad.  Again its a fast and quick narrative, there are some omissions, but events move rapidly just like the actual campaign.  Some find fault with this book because it does not cover subesquent events of the occupation.  I tend to agree, but I also think Keegan didn't want to go there.  He has left that for another historian.  What we have here is a first-rate narration of events leading up and including the conventional conflict.  This book will provide the general background which many others on this subject lack.	2005-04-28
US	50552445	R2Q6WM5QCEXZSO	1585675652	868576545	Alexander the Great: the Hunt For a New Past	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Evalautions About Alex	This is not your typical bio on Alexander.  This is more a discussion of how to see and evaluate him from different perspectives.  Those who are not familier with the subject matter may find this a tough read.  The author likes to jump around and follows only a very loose chronology of his life.  That being said there is a lot here to like.  The author discusses Alexander from many different angles and tries to understand his motives for certain actions.  He takes Alexander and examines him from various perspectives, each chapter of the book looking at him from a unique way.  Again, if the reader does not have a good understanding of Alex's life this might prove very confusing.  The author seems to fall into the negective category concerning his subject.  He finds many reasons to see the evil of a good many of Alex's actions.  This is not a pro-Alexander book.  Still, this work will help the informed reader look at him in many different ways, and will help understand why he took certain decisions and followed certain policies.  Recommended for all those who have read the standard bios on Alexander and are looking for something that sheds some new light on the subject.  The author certainly throws a lot of interesting ideas around, and those with a good backing of the subject will enjoy this book a lot more than those just reading their first book on Alex.  The reason why I gave this work 4 stars is because it implies that the reader is well read on the subject.  Again, do not read this book if you are just starting out to understand Alexander.  Read several other bios first, both old and new, and then come back to this book.  You will enjoy it a lot more then.	2005-04-05
US	50552445	R1U2HXN2029HPD	0394751019	421244819	The Persian Boy	Books	3	7	34	N	N	Slow Moving Epic	This novel was perhaps a landmark at the time of its publication because of its home-erotic references to Alexander.  Since then we have had much made of this aspect of his character, so i think the novelty has worn off a bit.  Mary Renault is a gifted writer, and her prose is both picturesque and compelling, but this work is a hard go even for someone interested in Alexander!  The story moves slowly.  The narrator,  a enuch who happens to be named Bagoas, provides a more sympathetic account of who this person really was.  The real Bagoas was not killed by Darius, and he proved to be an evil, insidious influence for both Alexander and Darius.  This Bagoas is full of longings and pathos, which gets really tiring after a while.  Also, his/her longings for sex with Alexander, no matter how tastefully done, can be somewhat revolting to some readers.  The constant references to his wearing sexy loin-clothes and long hair to perform errotic male dances is both annoying and disquesting at the same time!<br /><br />What this novel does show was how wide and perverse sexual habbits were at this time, and how women often featured very little in them! At least in the circles of the ruling elites.  We do get some inferences of Alexander's character, which offer some interest, and this can be what makes good historical fiction worthwhile if it paints a convincing portrait of a famous person and his time.  Still, no matter how you slice it this is slow, tedious read.  This book is probably more suited to gay readers than those really interested in Alexander's life and times.  For me Alexander has so many more fascinating aspects to his career besides just his sexual habbits which seem to be the real interest for the recent fascination in him lately.  The equally slow moving Oliver Stone epic marches at about the same tedious pace as this novel.  I'll bet the producers read it at their bedside.	2005-02-19
US	50552445	R2MWBRH4SOZSPK	0451213661	16784203	Empire of Ashes: A Novel of Alexander the Great	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Entertaining Work of Fiction	Machon's story is entirely fiction, but it is still compelling and rich in detail.  The premise for his trail in Athens may be somewhat contrieved, but it provides a means for the author to bring the character of Alexander to life.  Machon paints a somewhat dark impression of Alexander's Persian conquest. He surrounds him with a group of ugly syncophants who in the end sought any means to betray him.  The method of first person narative provides a very personalized view, obviously something the author desired.  Here Machon can bad-mouth many of the famous personages of the period in an effective manner.  The book has been heavily influenced by the works of Victor Hansen Davis who is famed for his views on ancient warfare.  Hanson also his many negective ideas about Alexander which no doubt have influenced the author's perspective here.<br /><br />Perhaps the most controversial aspect of the novel is the contention that Alexander used a secret half-brother sired from one of his father's many liasons with courtisans.  Machon's supposed testimony was that he was the hidden genius behind Alexander's exploits.  This has a lot of conspiracy theory feel about it, but it does force one to consider that we do know actually very little about Alexander directly, and that his amazing exploits might very well have had assistence from a variety of sources.  We know that he uesd look-alikes at times, as when trying to fool Porus at the Hydaspes River during the Indian campaign.  Some readers may have a problem with this theory, but again this is Machon's testimony, and he is a fictional character!  It makes for entertaining reading while the author goes over Alexander's career.  Some aspects of the chronology of events may be off, but overall this is a well done work of fiction which should inspire the reader to check out one of the many current biographies on the subject.	2005-02-17
US	50552445	RPXV84JAVTO04	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Conspiratorial Alexander	Peter Green's biography paints a very dark and rather cynical view of Alexander. To read his book is to think that Alex carefully planned out all his actions.  He carefully awaited opportunities to eliminate his former friends who were perceived as potential threats.  Green must be more a follwer of Curtius and his views of Alex as opposed to Arrian who is more an outright admirer.  Alexander's life is so complicated and comprises so many events that its hard to ascribe so many deliberate motives as are implied here.  Green seems to point out all the evidence at Alexander for wanting to murder Philotas, Parmenion, Clietus etc., and then afterwards adds that such accusations may all be conjecture afterall!  This reveals Green's bias toward this subject it would seem.<br /><br />While I don't doubt that Alexander was certainly no saint, and his grand campaigns through Asia killed many thousands, to imply that he was such a schemer seems a bit unfair.  If anything I think Alexander was prone to sudden and often violent mood changes, brought about by many factors.  The combination of Philip II and Olympia as his parents was certain to create an individual that combined many extreme tendencies.  We see this in him as he combines attributes of both in his character.  He could be gracious one moment, violently angry the next. Was often mystical and reclusive, and prone perhaps toward mistrust. These characteristics became more pronounced after the death of Darius III and his assumption of the status of Great King.  It is fair to say that up until this point Alexander's march had inspired all who followed him.  As him came to assume more imperial trappings his character changed as he perceived threats from those who did not approve of this policy.<br /><br />Alexander's character evolved and changed as circumstances developed.  Did he cross the Hellespoint with the grand intent to assume control of the whole Persian empire immediately, or did the concept gradually evolve as the possibility increasingly presented itself?  This remains one of the great unanswered questions about Alexander.  There will always be those who see it either one way or the other.  For Peter Green it seems Alexander more or less intended from the beginning to conquer all before him.  We can either agree with this or not.<br /><br />One of the more intriguing aspects about this book contained in the appendix is the discussion concerning the location of the battle of the Granicus.  Green seems to think the battle was not fought directly on the River itself, but rather further downwards after Alexander crossed it.  He implies that Alexander may have suffered a repulse at first, leading to his subsequent crossing further down to fight the Persians on more even ground.  So much for the grand charge across the Granicus so often mentioned.  But then did Cletius also save him in the same way if this happaned?  Many questions exist.  Green believes that Alexander's propaganda department neatly covered over this repulse and re-wrote the Granicus as an heroic epic.  Anything is possible in dealing with history so long ago.<br /><br />Green has done an interesting and impressive work.  He raises many worthwhile questions about Alexander.  There is a somewhat hostile stance toward his subject, but given this bias, this biography is still a worthwhile addition to all the others out there.  Read, enjoy and think!volve as the possibility increasingly presented itself?  This remains one of the great unanswered questions about Alexander.  There will always be those who see it either one way or the other.  For Peter Green it seems Alexander more or less intended from the beginning to conquer all before him.  We can either agree with this or not. <br /> <br />One of the more intriguing aspects about this book contained in the appendix is the discussion concerning the location of the battle of the Granicus.  Green seems to think the battle was not fought directly on the River itself, but rather further downwards after Alexander crossed it.  He implies that Alexander may have suffered a repulse at first, leading to his subsequent crossing further down to fight the Persians on more even ground.  So much for the grand charge across the Granicus so often mentioned.  But then did Cletius also save him in the same way if this happaned?  Many questions exist.  Green believes that Alexander's propaganda department neatly covered over this repulse and re-wrote the Granicus as an heroic epic.  Anything is possible in dealing with history so long ago.   <br /> <br />Green has done an interesting and impressive work.  He raises many worthwhile questions about Alexander.  There is a somewhat hostile stance toward his subject, but given this bias, this biography is still a worthwhile addition to all the others out there.  Read, enjoy and think!	2005-02-04
US	50552445	R3HVBD816YOG48	0306803712	325929602	The Generalship Of Alexander The Great (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Excellent View of Alexander	There are many biographies of Alexander the Great out there.  Most tend to look at his influence on the the times he lived in, as well as his legacy to the world.  There are many ways to view the Macedonian juggernault.  Here we have a unique perspective by a reknowned military historian.  JFC Fuller takes Alexander's career and provides a first-rate look and analysis. The book is divided into two roughly equal parts.  The first section provides a fast moving mini-bio of his life, emphisizing the major battles and campaigns of Alexander.  The depth here is lacking, and purposely so, as this information is only provided in order to follow the discussion of his generalship.<br /><br />Alexander exercised a unique kind of leadership. In addition to leading from the front in battle, he also combined the abilities of general and statesmen all in one person.  In battle Alexander's presence was a decisive influence.  He had an innate ability to read a tactical situation, and adapt it to the abilities of his Macedonian army.  Its important to understand how important this army was to Alexander's strategy.  Without this carefully crafted force which his father, Philip II created, Alexander could not have accomplished what he did.  Fuller helps us to understand this by showing how Alexander used this army as a tool for all his endeavors.  Its important to remember how much the Macedoonian army out-classed its Persian and Indian opponets.  It was also a very versatile army, able to operate in almost any circumstances.<br /><br />We see Alexander's brilliance both in major and minor battles and campaigns.  This book is a must have for the Alexander specialist.  It can serve as a useful guide for any of the numerous biographies out there which tend to gloss over many of the details of his generalship.  Highly recommended for Alex buffs, and for the recent interest generated by the new movie on this subject.	2004-12-23
US	50552445	R3DJHNMFQ3KIF2	0393003817	876636990	Alexander the Great (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Classic Study	This is a smoothly done work.  The author, a product of the older German school of history, has been expertly translated here.  This book reads easily, and the reader quickly gets swept up into the interesting and insightful text.  This a fairly straight-forward bio of Alexander.  Those wanting to know his sexual escapades should consult more modern works.  Here such is only hinted at.<br /><br />The main stength of this book seems to be its comparative analysis.  The author shows how Alexander evolved in his strategy of conquest.  He is also skillful at showing how he managed his various titles as ruler, being Hegemon to the Greeks, and Divine King to the Asiatics.  There is limited discussion of the great battles of Alexander, although reference is made to the Oblique Order which he developed from Epamiadas of Thebes.  The early chapter concerning Philip also sheds light on his accomplishments and how they would influence his son.<br /><br />The concluding chapters discuss the legacy of Alexander.  Useful reference is made to how Caeser planned to model his three year campaign of conquest on Alexander in the East before he was assassinated. Tthe legacy of Alexander with the Romans is also interesting. There is also a good deal of how the Diodachi Succession wars developed, and how these various rulers spread Hellanism throughtout their empires.  Alexander can be seen on many different levels.  He is many things to different people.  Here we find a pretty unbiased account, which is on the whole favorable toward his accomplishments and deeds.  Readers more familar with recent bios may wish to consult this work to get a clear, concise and uncluttered account.	2004-12-08
US	50552445	R2F365E97B0C2E	0300087195	676428637	Salamanca, 1812	Books	5	6	6	N	N	First-Rate Account	Rory Muir provides a first-rate account of the battle of Salamanca.  The format he employs is unique as well.  A standard narrative of events is provided, and then a discussion of the sources used follows in each chatper.  In this way the author shows us the thought process involved in evaluating primary and secondary works from this period.  This process of histography greatly enhances the reader to understand what is involved in reconstructing events from the past.  Even an event such as this, well known and rich with sources, still has many questions when subjected to a closer look.<br /><br />The author provides an excellent break-down of events comprising the battle itself.  We see how close the actual battle itself was in terms of whether and how it would take place.  Wellington was patiently awaiting his opportunity, and Marmont finally provided it.  Against a lesser quality opponet Marmont's generalship might well have prevailed, but against the Iron Duke he could not afford to make any mistakes.<br /><br />The author provides a close-up look at the fighting itself, quoting numerous first-hand sources to provide a deeper understanding, but also showing the reader that many primary sources are not without their contradictions.  These the author attempts to take apart in order for the reader to better understand the sequence of events, and how these were described by the primary sources.  The work is greatly enhanced by mixing in lesser known French primary accounts with their better known English counterparts.  We see that the British most often prevailed in their firefights not by a prolonged series of platoon vollies as many previous works on this subject have indicated.  Instead the red-coats fired a solid volley and then quickly followed up with a loud cheer and a steady bayonet charge to disorder the French.  We see at Salamanca that this tactic worked offensively as well.  Also we see that Clusel's famous counter- attack could have done a lot more damage to the British if it had been pressed with more vigor.  The description of Le Merchant's cavalry charge on the French left was certainly the decisive moment of the battle.  Here Rory Muir provides a detailed break-down of events showing the reader how this charge unfolded from beginning to end. One emerges with a greater understanding of how infantry and cavalry fought against each other in this period.<br /><br />I note that Mr. Muir is an Aussie which seems interesting that he would have such a passion for events so far removed from his homeland.  Here he has shown us how battles should be reconstructed in order to emerge with a greater understanding of both the sources used and the period of warfare which they describe.  As a devotee of the Peninsular War, and having visited the battlefied of Salamanca itself recently, I cannot recommed this book highly enough for the serious student of Napoleanic Warfare.re damage to the British if it had been pressed with more vigor.  The description of Le Merchant's cavalry charge on the French left was certainly the decisive moment of the battle.  Here Rory Muir provides a detailed break-down of events showing the reader how this charge unfolded from beginning to end. One emerges with a greater understanding of how infantry and cavalry fought against each other in this period.  <br /> <br />I note that Mr. Muir is an Aussie which seems interesting that he would have such a passion for events so far removed from his homeland.  Here he has shown us how battles should be reconstructed in order to emerge with a greater understanding of both the sources used and the period of warfare which they describe.  As a devotee of the Peninsular War, and having visited the battlefied of Salamanca itself recently, I cannot recommed this book highly enough for the serious student of Napoleanic Warfare.	2004-11-17
US	50552445	R39PVM2BAGF5LM	0306810832	736104414	The Spanish Ulcer: A History of the Peninsular War	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Somewhat Revisionist Account	This is a well constructed book on the Peninsular War.  Indeed, to find any single, readable volume on this subject that attempts to cover all its aspects is great.  Many books tend to concentrate on just Wellington's campaigns and the activities of the Anglo-Portugease army.  Mr. Gates has noted that tendency and has tried to correct it.  In doing so however, he has taken a rather highly critical approach.  Whereas many earlier books were lavish in their praise of Wellington, Gates goes the opposite way.  While it is good to provide a fair perspective, and this subject has certainly required that in English, Gates leans too much toward the revisionist set with his heavy criticism of Wellington.  At times it seems that he almost wants to go out of his way to find fault with the Iron Duke.<br /><br />That aside, this is still a worthwhile work if the reader takes understands the bias here.  Gates descriptions of what the Spanish armies were doing fills in a lot of gaps on the subject.  While often seen as imcompetent in most earlier English sources, the Spanish none the less kept the French off balance.  Time and again the French would defeat them, and time and again, the Spanish would return to the fight with new armies.  This was a major factor in preventing the French from concentrating against Wellington.<br /><br />The battles themselves are crisply done, but often a little too heavy on single vollies taking down hundreds if not thousands of men during some of the actions.  I think Gates gets a little carried away with himself there at times.  Single vollies rarely accomplished this, but a series of them could over time.  There are workable maps provided for most of the actions and campaigns, and while some of these are wanting in professional look, they do at least allow one to follow the action somewhat.<br /><br />The main stength of this work is its wider perspective.  We get to see what the numerous Spainish arimes were doing, as well as get a better understanding of what the French were up against in Iberia.  I agree with Gates when he states that under the harsh circumstances of the French losing roughly a 100 men a day during the occupation, it is remarkable that they lasted as long as they did.  This the book helps us to understand.<br /><br />Overall this is a workmanlike study, easy to read, and with nice details of aspects not often covered in the numerous works on this subject.  If one allows for the often blatant anti-Wellington revisionist slant, then there is much good that can come out of reading this work and comparing it to Weller's and Glover's books.ter understanding of what the French were up against in Iberia.  I agree with Gates when he states that under the harsh circumstances of the French losing roughly a 100 men a day during the occupation, it is remarkable that they lasted as long as they did.  This the book helps us to understand. <br /> <br />Overall this is a workmanlike study, easy to read, and with nice details of aspects not often covered in the numerous works on this subject.  If one allows for the often blatant anti-Wellington revisionist slant, then there is much good that can come out of reading this work and comparing it to Weller's and Glover's books.	2004-10-08
US	50552445	RJGVN2XFYW3RC	0140294333	803394553	Sharpe's Sword: Richard Sharpe and the Salamanca Campaign, June and July 1812 (#14)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sharpe and Salamanca, 1812	I always thought this one of the better Sharpe novels.  After reading it again after seeing both the battlefield and city of Salamanca I was confirmed in this belief.  The descriptions of the city of Salamanca are accurate. This is a lovely place, and Cornwell no doubt was moved by its beauty to impart these feelings into the novel.  Sharpe's confrontation with Leroux is your standard bit we have come to expect in these novels.  The action is well paced and quite good.  Even Sharpe's affair with the mysterious \\"Golden Whore\\" while predictable is nicely done.  The wound that he receives from Leroux is dramatically done, although I doubt he could have recovered so well in such a short time.  Sharpe's pain and suffering in the Dying Room are thoughfully done.  One almost feels his delirium.  The central piece in the novel is the battle of Salamanca itself, sadly lacking in the TV version of the novel unfortunatly.  Here Cornwell writes what he does best, battle descriptions.  The violent ebb and flow of this epic confrontation shows Cornwell at his best.  This was truly the deciding battle of the Peninsular War, and probably was the most balanced in terms of forces and troop qaulity on both sides. After having visited the battlefield, Cornwell's description falls nicely into place.  Of course Sharpe saves the day as usual, but its believeable. One of the better novels in the series.	2004-09-27
US	50552445	R1U8KYQ0UD2FA	0939009366	680875283	Balls Bluff: A Small Battle and Its Long Shadow	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Small Battle, Big Aftermath	This is an excellent, self-contained work on a little known action of the Civil War.  With so many works done on the major events of the war its refreshing to see something different for a change.  Mr. Farwell is an English historian who has written many books on life in the British army during the Victorian era, which was the same time as the Civil War.  The different perspective that a none-American writer has on the subject can be refreshing.  Here Farwell applies his easy going and engaging style to describe the personalities and events involived in a little known battle from the early stages of the Civil War.<br /><br />Balls Bluff certainly can't compare with the fame of Gettysburg or others, but it can provide an interesting look at how a small scale action was fought, as well as illustrate some of the politics that were involved with the incorporation of State troops into Federal service.  This battle also provides a classic study of how things can go wrong very quickly in a military operation.  The Union was looking for a fight after the debacle at Bull Run, and they found it almost accidentally at Balls Bluff.  Stone, the union officer in command, failed to keep a close eye on his ameteur subordinate Baker, the result being another debacle at Balls Bluff with even more shocking results.<br /><br />The fact that the Union was defeated was not half so bad as the way it happaned, a terrible rout and ensuing slaughter of helpess union troops on the cliffs of the river.  The politics of the battle's aftermath show how scapegoats are often found in a Republic.  What happaned to Stone was not unlike what had often occured in ancient Athens.  Political witch-hunts are not a recent development.  Stone was wrongly accused for the failings of Baker.  Had the latter lived there might have been a different reckoning.  The book wonderfully points out the politicis and history of the early war period, and stands on its own as a fine read.  You don't have to know any Civil War history to enjoy this work.  In that sense it would make a good high school assignment indeed!any Civil War history to enjoy this work.  In that sense it would make a good high school assignment indeed!	2004-08-20
US	50552445	R2QOYDUHCAP12M	0862412234	175869788	Tunes of Glory (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	The Book on which the Classic Film was Based	Finally after many years I was able to obtain a copy of this most elusive novel.  For many years I have enjoyed the excellent film made in 1960 with Alec Guiness amd John Mills.  Over time I had a desire to read the novel upon which the movie was based.  Trying to get a copy of this little known work in the States was a difficult prospect, and I am indebted to Amazon.com for their exteneive resources to finally obtain a copy.<br /><br />The novel is almost like seeing the movie.  In fact this is one of those rare examples where a film truly does a literary work justice.  In fact I might even venture to say that the film fills out more aspects of the novel, and while the sequence of events may be slightly diferent in both, the end result is brilliant in both cases.  This can be one of the fun reasons to read a book and compare it to the cinema version.  With this novel most people would likely not know of it except for the brilliance of the movie.  This is why I wanted to read it.<br /><br />The novel finally answered a burning question I have always had.  Which Scottish regiment was the author referring too?  Apparently Mr. Kenneaway served in the Gordon Highlanders in post war Germany.  His expereinces as an officer appear to have been somewhat jaded and his reflexions on national service and the secluded nature of regimental life were shown in the novel.  The conflicting personalities of officers and the petty nature of the mess hall ware issues that are shown to have deadly consequnces.  Still, the way the novel shows the richness of regimental life in a famous Scottish regiment is one of the main attractions of both this work and the movie.  Originally the movie was intended to be shot in Stirling Castle with the Argylls, but the colonel of that regiment decided not to do so which required the production to be done in London Studios.  Mostly likely the London Scottish Territorials were used for the big scene shots.  Anyway, those who have enjoyed the movie for many years will also like to see how the original novel reads.  Like myself they should find it rewarding.e for many years will also like to see how the original novel reads.  Like myself they should find it rewarding.	2004-07-22
US	50552445	R37NIN047QJ0XD	0862815827	203895656	Irish Battles: A Military History of Ireland	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Key Battles for Ireland	This readable account brings together a compendium of Irish Battles from Clontarf in 1014 to Arklow in 1798.  Each of the dozen or so battles has a chapter devoted to it.  The author is careful to provide a useful background for each event, with discussions concerning politics, local history, Irish conerns, social conditions, English occupation and developement of military technology and its impact on irish society through the centuries.  The reader gets a very clear picture of the circumstances surrounding each battle before getting a detailed description of the action itself.  This is how military history should be written!  Being Irish himself, the author is careful not to imbalance his views with anti-English sentiments or viewpoints.  This is refreshing for a change because many irish works have suffered from this kind of bias in the past.  In fact the author will often take the irish to task for their own mistakes in their numerous wars against the English.<br />The earlier battles often lack much documentation, and thus have to be reconstructed within their context.  This is done well, epescially with the early battle of Clontarf, and following with the Norman battles of conquest.  The battles of Hugh o'Neil in the 16th century get very close attention, with the author pointing to the developement of Irish skirmishing tactics in the boughs of Ireland from Norman times until the Aughrim in 1691.  For the first time we see a clear method of how the irish make war, using the terrian to try and off-set the superior fire discipline of the English.  Hugh O'Neil manages well until he is brought out to support the floundering Spanish at Kinsale in 1601.  Here the Irish must try and fight in massed formation, and Mountjoy's troops make short work of them in one of the most lop-sided victories in military history.<br />The narrative continues into the 17th centuries with the Boyne and Aughrim receiving special attention.  In both the author questions the motives of several Irish leaders who have come down to us as legends in this period.  Was Patrict Sarsfield the true Irish patriot of the time, or just someone made into that role to soothe later sensibilities.  In these two battles we see that the Irish can fight well, esecially when they employ their skirmishing bough tactics, but their tendency to lose heart and give way suddenly costs them the war.  For the Irish the recurring theme in all these battles is shortages of weapons and training.  These two factors limit their efforts throughout the centuries to defeat the English. The author points out that the Irish are often fond of blaming circumstances instead of themselves for setbacks.  This is a national characteristic, and for a son of Erin to admit this is quite interesting!<br />In this book you will find some interesting and obsure battles that are not well known in the mainstream of military history.  This is another thing that makes this book worth reading.  For those interested in Irish history, as well as military history in general, this book should fit both niches quite well.several Irish leaders who have come down to us as legends in this period.  Was Patrict Sarsfield the true Irish patriot of the time, or just someone made into that role to soothe later sensibilities.  In these two battles we see that the Irish can fight well, esecially when they employ their skirmishing bough tactics, but their tendency to lose heart and give way suddenly costs them the war.  For the Irish the recurring theme in all these battles is shortages of weapons and training.  These two factors limit their efforts throughout the centuries to defeat the English. The author points out that the Irish are often fond of blaming circumstances instead of themselves for setbacks.  This is a national characteristic, and for a son of Erin to admit this is quite interesting! <br />In this book you will find some interesting and obsure battles that are not well known in the mainstream of military history.  This is another thing that makes this book worth reading.  For those interested in Irish history, as well as military history in general, this book should fit both niches quite well.	2004-07-08
US	50552445	R1M26WVJHWG6R5	0870520148	789309777	The Anatomy of Victory: Battle Tactics 1689-1763	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic Study	Not many books on military history dare to cover such topics as troop deployment and formations. Most works on warfare from these periods tend to assume that the reader would not be interested in such topics. Mostly what we tend to read are strategic overviews, strategy and helpful hints on how to win battles from the military top 100 generals. But how many books really tell us what was technically involved in deploying regiments on to battlefield. Not many. But this is one of them.<br />Mr. Nosworthy has performed a valuable service in helping to re-define our understanding of 17th and 18th Century warfare. The book covers the period from 1685-1763, showing us the important military technological innovations that would change war forever. Most notably these were the introduction of the socket bayonet and the flintlock musket. While seemingly minor events by today's standards, these weapons would have far reaching influence on the battlefields of Europe and beyond. Their use forced a modernization of field tactics, which would have profound impact on the battlefield. Any serious student of the period who wants to learn the nuts and bolts of how Marlborough and Frederick the Great employed their armies successfully needs to read this book. There are also interesting chapters about the tactical experiments the French army was conducting in this period, which was destined to influence later Napoleonic warfare. Although out of print at the moment, keep your eyes on when this title might get re-printed. It's a classic of its kind and deserves to be in every serious collection on warfare. Try and get a copy from any second hand source or just read it in the library! Hopefully this one will get back into print soon!	2004-06-16
US	50552445	R35JZGQQFMWT8F	1900624079	734578114	The Boyne and Aughrim: The War of the Two Kings (Great Battles Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A Brief Account	This slender book attempts to discuss the events surrounding the War of the Two Kings in Ireland, 1690 - 91. Otherwsiee known as the first Jacobite War. There are many titles for this conflict in fact.  The book provides some general background to the events leading up to the Boyne and Aughrim campaigns.  As a general history it suffices, and it does provide one of the few overviews of the entire conflict in Ireland.  There is some attempt as well to place the conflict within its wider context as part of the international situation at the time.  The influence of Louis XIV's wars is examined, as well as a cursory look at the arms, tactics and armies of the period.<br />In addition to the Boyne which is given a rather brief account, the author also looks at some of the other events of the war which are not well known outside of the context of the Boyne battle itself.  We see the siege of Athlone, as well as the first and second sieges of Limmerick. Patrict Sarsfield's brilliant raid on the Willimaite artillery trayne at Ballyneety gets a small mention and description. A chapter examines the naval aspects of the conflict, and how this might have changed matters if the French had assumed a more aggressive strategy after their victory at Beachy Head in the Channel.<br />We see Marlborough putting in an efficient apparecne to successfully besiege and take several Jacobite ports along the Irish coast.  The final clamatic battle of Aughrim is given a more detailed account and we see how well things were going for the Jacobites until St. Ruth was killed and the betrayal of the Jacobite cavalry on the flank.  The resulting rout causes the loss of 7,000 Jacobites to the Williamite loss of 2,000.  This was the decisive victory that gave William III Ireland.  The Boyne a year earlier was only the first success, albeit made more important because of James II's immediate flight from Ireland.<br />The author correctly points out how the Irish have seen this battle incorrectly over the centuries.  In the North parades are held on July 12th, celebrating the Boyne victory.  This is the actual date of Aughrim.  The change-over from old style to new style calander has confused the dates for these events.  The Irish need to look at this period more objectively, and remove the inaccurate myths associated with it.  In particular the North needs to do this, but the South as well could benefit from a more accurate version.  This book begins that process, but it is a slender work and not a complete end of itself.  A glossary provides some primary source information as well as some interesting orders of battle for the Jacobites.  Well worthwhile despite its digressive nature and short durration.over the centuries.  In the North parades are held on July 12th, celebrating the Boyne victory.  This is the actual date of Aughrim.  The change-over from old style to new style calander has confused the dates for these events.  The Irish need to look at this period more objectively, and remove the inaccurate myths associated with it.  In particular the North needs to do this, but the South as well could benefit from a more accurate version.  This book begins that process, but it is a slender work and not a complete end of itself.  A glossary provides some primary source information as well as some interesting orders of battle for the Jacobites.  Well worthwhile despite its digressive nature and short durration.	2004-06-15
US	50552445	R3V5JI6HZRZNI0	0094745102	794536290	Battle Tactics of Napoleon and His Enemies (History & Politics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A  Classic of its Kind!	This work should become the standard reference item for any serious study on tactics in the Napoleanic period.  For far too long we have been influenced by the generalist view of the tactics and formations employed in this period of warfare. Even major historians like Chandler and Elting while providing great overall perspective of the period, are very scanty when it comes to describing how troops actually fought and in what formations. This book provides a lot of answers and has a nuts and bolts approach which is fascinating.<br />Mr. Noseworthy's explanation of how the aristocracy of the 18th Century limited the employment of non-linerar tactics in the French and other armies goes a long way toward explaining why the French were able to employ these methods so well in the Napoleanaic period. Here we see that the tactics of the French Revolution and Napoleanic periods did not simply fall out of the sky, but were already established principals whose time had finally come. Mr. Noseworthy discusses in detail how French formations fought and delivered fire, and dispels a lot of myths about the French army. Contrary to popular opinion, the French fought in a variety of formations besides  just column, and were not adverse to employing lines.<br />Reference is made to how the British fought in this period, and we learn it was not platoon fire that defeated the French in Spain and Waterloo, but point blank vollies followed by spirited bayonet charges. The book quotes a lot from primary sources, many of them seldem referred too before, even by major researchers in the field. This book goes a long way toward re-evaluating how we should understand Napoleanic Warfare, and as such is bound to ruffle a few feathers as far as popular established views are concerned. Mr. Noseworthy's writing is clear, subtle, and to the point. There is seldem a paragraph that does not contain some interesting fact. This book really should be re-printed in a new edition as it is a classic of its kind.  It belongs on the same shelves as Chandler and other noteable Napoleanic historians.  Buy this book wherever you can find it!kind.  It belongs on the same shelves as Chandler and other noteable Napoleanic historians.  Buy this book wherever you can find it!	2004-06-14
US	50552445	R1VIQDVEZQGWMJ	0752425978	892595078	Battle of the Boyne 1690	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	The Boyne, Ireland and Popular Myths	The Boyne is one of those decisive battles which influence a nation's history profoundly, yet is not a great battle itself.  History has a number of these oddities whose influence is more decisive than their immediate results.  Valmy comes to mind in the time of the French Revolution.  A paltry action, but it helped save the new French Republic.<br />In Ireland the Boyne remains an event held hostage by political agendas and sectarian interests.  In the North it is celebrated every year by the infamous Orange Parades on the 12th of July.  Yet the battle was fought on the 1st of July 1690 (old style) not the 12th.  The Boyne was also not as truly decisive as the Battle of Aughrim fought a year later on the same July 12th date, 1691.  Through a bizarre twist of fate the Boyne is celebrated as the battle that saved Protestanism in the North, yet because of the change over from old to new calanders in that period, the event is now celebrated on July 12th.  Most north irish are not aware of this irony.  They celebrate the 12th of July as Willaim's victory at the Boyne, instead of Aughrim in 1691.  Again, politics have subordinated history to its own purposes here.<br />So much for history's irony concerning this event.  The author has attempted to put together a comprehensive study of the battle.  One that is badly needed I might ad!  For too long this event has been viewed simply as an English vs Irish issue.  It was only in a very limited and almost accidental sense.  The Boyne was part of the grander scheme of events associated with the wars of Louis XIV of France in europe.  With Catholic James II desposed by his own incompetence by the Glorious Revolution in 1689, England brought over William III of Holland and his English wife, Mary, James II ardently protestant daughter.  James abandoned his English crown and rushed to France to seek help from Louis XIV.  Distracted by his numerous wars on the Continent, Louis was only willing to provide limited help, although he did see the danger of William of Orange becoming de facto king of England.  But Louis was more interested in matters in Germany at the moment instead of the Netherlands and England.  He would later perhaps regret that stratgeic gaffe.  Still, we can see that all parties wanted to use Ireland as a means in which to regain the English crown.  Makes no bones about it, this was a purely dynastic war. There were few notions of nationalism or patriotism here!  The Irish people really did not stand to benefit no matter which party won, despite what propagandists for both Protestant and Catholic have said since.  This is also the beginning of the lost cause strugle of the Stewarts and their Jacobite followers who would attempt several more claims on the English crown after their failure in Ireland.<br />The author points out many of these facets and provides a helpful background analysis of the leaders and troops involved.  The Boyne was truly a battle of light-weight generals.  William was no genus, and James was barely competent!  So its no surprise that the Boyne is really more an accident than a planned event.  By comparing this battle to others in the period the author provides a good means to see it objectively.  While there are frequent and lenghy digressions at times, the information imparted is well worth the diversion.  The discussion of the emerging military technologies of the battle is really what makes the Boyne interesting from a military history perpective.  The gradual eclipse of the Pike, and Matchlock musket, to be replaced by the newer Flintlock and socket bayonet package is a minor revolution in military developments itself.  All of the various armies of the period were in different processes of accepting this switch over, which the Boyne shows well because so many different national contingents fought there.  William as Stadtholder of the United Provinces in the Netherlands has access to Dutch, as well as newly formed English regiments, and through hispolitical and relgious alliances Danish, Irish Protestants and French Hugannot troops as well.  James II has Jacobite Irish, displaced English Catholics and a brigade of French regulars.  Again, we can see that this is a battle being fought on many different social, political levels.<br />The author's actual description of the battle attempts to correct many long felt assumptions.  William did not intend to feint against Jame's left frank, and attack in the middle.  He was seeking a battle of encirclement, but the clumsy methods of coordinating troop movments in the period prevented any such development, and what William got was a weakening of the Jacobite center to refuse against his flank movements.  This enabled him to force acorss the Boyne at Oldbridge his Dutch, Danish, Irish, and French Hugannot regiments aganist a weakend Jacobite center.  The fighting that resulted was desultry, and of relitively brief durration.  The Jacobite cavalry covered itself in glory by charging heroically against William's massed infantry, but the of the Jacobite foot were gradually puished back by superior discipline and firepower.  James who kept the French and other good Irish troops off on the Left against a threat that never materialized also ruined his chances for a better outcome. If the French had faced off against the Dutch Guards at Oldbridge a different battle might have resulteThe author provides a nice summation of events occuring after the battle, and shows that while the french failed to do much in the battle itself, they did help form a strong rearguard to save James defeated, but un-destroyed army.  In fact this book shows that had james stuck it out in ireland after the battle he might easily have gott'en a better result in the next action.  Instead like jacobites who would follow him, he took ship at the first set-back. With an event like this shrouded in so much Irish myth and lore, its good to see an Irishman trying to give us a clear version of things.  This book should be required reading throughout ireland, especially in the North where they have a somewhat skewed perspective of this event. A really good read for those interested in warfare of the period, as well as Irish history.is political and relgious alliances Danish, Irish Protestants and French Hugannot troops as well.  James II has Jacobite Irish, displaced English Catholics and a brigade of French regulars.  Again, we can see that this is a battle being fought on many different social, political levels.<br />The author's actual description of the battle attempts to correct many long felt assumptions.  William did not intend to feint against Jame's left frank, and attack in the middle.  He was seeking a battle of encirclement, but the clumsy methods of coordinating troop movments in the period prevented any such development, and what William got was a weakening of the Jacobite center to refuse against his flank movements.  This enabled him to force acorss the Boyne at Oldbridge his Dutch, Danish, Irish, and French Hugannot regiments aganist a weakend Jacobite center.  The fighting that resulted was desultry, and of relitively brief durration.  The Jacobite cavalry covered itself in glory by charging heroically against William's massed infantry, but the of the Jacobite foot were gradually puished back by superior discipline and firepower.  James who kept the French and other good Irish troops off on the Left against a threat that never materialized also ruined his chances for a better outcome. If the French had faced off against the Dutch Guards at Oldbridge a different battle might have resulteThe author provides a nice summation of events occuring after the battle, and shows that while the french failed to do much in the battle itself, they did help form a strong rearguard to save James defeated, but un-destroyed army.  In fact this book shows that had james stuck it out in ireland after the battle he might easily have gott'en a better result in the next action.  Instead like jacobites who would follow him, he took ship at the first set-back. With an event like this shrouded in so much Irish myth and lore, its good to see an Irishman trying to give us a clear version of things.  This book should be required reading throughout ireland, especially in the North where they have a somewhat skewed perspective of this event. A really good read for those interested in warfare of the period, as well as Irish history.	2004-06-10
US	50552445	R321X6PQGUTQI	039330714X	519643930	The Gurkhas	Books	5	15	17	N	N	&quot;Ayo Gurkhali!&quot;  The Gurkhas are Coming!	This is another splendid book by Farwell.  Over the years he has written many books chronicling the life of the British soldier and his many gallent campaigns in the days when the sun never set on the Union Jack.  The Gurkhas have established themselves as one of the world's elite fighting forces, and justly so.  Farwell does a nice job telling their story from their beginnings in 1815 when the British first encountered these redoubtable hillmen as enemies.  Over the decades they steadily gained the trust and respect of all who commanded them in India.  Their exploits during the Indian Mutiny of 1857 firmly endeared their trust to the British who were justly weary of the loyalty of any native troops after the attrocities committed by seapoys in that rebellion.<br />The Gurkhas identified themselves as Rifles, or Light Infantry and assumed many of the traditions of the Rifle Brigade and Royal Green Jackets.  This includes the fast 140 pace, the green hued uniforms, the use of bugles and the like.  This is also seen in the style of performance in the band of the Brigade of Gurkhas who perform in their own unique style at Tattoos with fast paced marching and music.  Past association with Scottish regiments resulted in another carry over tradition, the inclusion of pipes in all regimental music.  Again, the Gurkhas have developed their own keen style of piping, including many traditional Napalese tunes as well as Scots pipe music.  Too bad Farwell did not touch a little more on these interesting traditions which make the Gurkhas quite unique.<br />Sadly in todays much reduced British army all of the Gurkha regiments have been reduced to one, the Royal Gurkha Rifles, with a paltry two battalions.  Farwell's book is as much social history as well as military anedotes.  This is a standard feature of many of his works.  Since the book was written back in the 1980s it does not reflect  any of the recent conflicts and peace keeping missions which the Gurkhas have been involved with, nor their current force reductions.  Still an entertaining and informative book nonetheless.olved with, nor their current force reductions.  Still an entertaining and informative book nonetheless.	2004-04-28
US	50552445	RJDMDCOBDR66Z	0679642811	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	4	4	5	N	N	True Moslems Should Read This Book!	This slender volune continues the discussion that Mr. Lewis has debated in his earlier writings.  In fact the reader will find much sumarized here which has been written by the author already in his numerous other works on Islam.  The brief history of Islam will prove useful to the general reader, and perhaps a bit redundant to the more knowledgeable person.<br />The sad fact is that those who should be reading books like this, moderate Islamists and other believers in Islam, most likely aren't.  These people would stand to learn most from the balanced views and general history presented within.  Despite what Mr. Lewis says that believers in Islam tend to have a greater sense of their own history, it is a knowledge often skewed into various forms of hysterical propaganda.  My guess is that most Moslems do not have an objective knowledge of their own history in the same manner that many in the West do of Christianity.  That is where much of the root of the problem resides.  Islam certainly won't let them get such an education either, because books like this will never get translated into Arabic, and even Islamic Immigirants in the West will not likely read it.<br />So Mr. Lewis is largely preaching to those who already understand these issues, or Westerners who want to learn more about it.  While Mr. Lewis has a sweeping knowledge of Middle Eastern History, the reader will often find that he raises more questions than he answers.  Mr. Lewis will seldom give a direct yes or no on any subject of Islam he discusses.  His approach is calm and rational, and will perhaps frustrate the reader who wants to see clear-cut reasons why radicals in Islam want to kill Westerners.  Mr. Lewis will provide many examples and questions, but his own answers are often vague.  Still, his books make for enlightening reads, and are certainly worthwhile.<br />His history of the Saudi State of radical Wahabism and its connection with oil explains a lot about how that country must have a love-hate relationship with the West.  One of his main point seems to be that Islam, being a younger religion than Christianity, is now going through a radical, violent development.  It is our misfortune to have to deal with this problem, and it remains the bigger question how much longer the West shall be willing to be restained in its reponse toward continued terror.a love-hate relationship with the West.  One of his main point seems to be that Islam, being a younger religion than Christianity, is now going through a radical, violent development.  It is our misfortune to have to deal with this problem, and it remains the bigger question how much longer the West shall be willing to be restained in its reponse toward continued terror.	2004-03-30
US	50552445	R3782BYOCL92XA	0385504004	57025522	Ripples of Battle: How Wars of the Past Still Determine How We Fight, How We Live, and How We Think	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Profound and Timely	A new book by VDH is always an interesting event.  Never fearful of being controversial he is a nightmare for the Politically Correct crowd of cultural relivist historians.  In &quot;Ripples&quot; VDH looks at three separate and distinct battles and draws fascinating conclusions from each.  While not related to each other in any way, VDH shows how each has left a lasting impression on society.<br />At Okinawa VHD shows that that desperate fanaticism that the Japanese embarked upon was truly a forelorn hope.  If the 9/11 terrorists have looked to the Japanese for inspiration in sucide attacks, then they have drawn the wrong conclusions.  As a result of this battle, the US determined that it must use atomic weapons against the Japanese in order to end the war swiftly and without further loss.  An invasion of the Japanese mainland would have resulted in far greater loss for both sides.  VHD shows us that we should feel no shame for dropping the bomb on Japan.  If we are to understand why we did so one need only look at the carnage of Okinawa.  If seen wthin the context of the times, the policy becomes clear.  Too many revisionist historians tend to ignore that fact today.<br />At Shiloh VHD pulls together a number of famous individuals who would have profound impact on the Civil War and its legacy in the US.  Sherman, Lew Wallace, Grant and Forest all would be major players in the war, and Shiloh helped to eastablish that fact.  For Sherman it was the carnage of the batttle that would define his strategy of maneauver against the South resulting in the epic March to the Sea.  Forest and Wallace would leave different legacies, each of what prove fascinating to understanding the nature of late 19th century US development.<br />The battle of Delium in 424 BC may not at first seem relivant.  But the fact that Socretes was there makes for some wonderful speculation on VHD's part.  If he had died how would this have chnaged Western Philosophy?  Some may find this a silly point to debate, but the issue seems quite profound.  Such a death would have left a big ripple indeed!  The battle also shows development in Greek Hoplite warfare as Pagondas uses what would become a version of the oblique attack with his Thebans against the Athenians.<br />Taken all together this is a fun and fascinating book. Not for the Left Wing set, although they could learn a lot from reading it!  VHD shows that warfare has always been a part of humanity, and that we are niave to think we can shy away from it today.  His messages has special meaning in this post-911 world.int to debate, but the issue seems quite profound.  Such a death would have left a big ripple indeed!  The battle also shows development in Greek Hoplite warfare as Pagondas uses what would become a version of the oblique attack with his Thebans against the Athenians.<br />Taken all together this is a fun and fascinating book. Not for the Left Wing set, although they could learn a lot from reading it!  VHD shows that warfare has always been a part of humanity, and that we are niave to think we can shy away from it today.  His messages has special meaning in this post-911 world.	2004-03-23
US	50552445	R3U2AS0ATYHYO3	1841763098	379277199	Vimeiro 1808: Wellesleys first victory in the Peninsular (Campaign)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Adequate Account	This Osprey title provides an adequate account of the battle of Vimero in 1808.  This was Wellsley's first major victory in the Peninsular, and as such is worth studying in some detail as it provides a blue-print for his future victories.  I have often found the Osprey titles to be short on text, but high in price, although they do provide a nice synopsis of each subject they handle.  I would agree in general with the reviwer above that Wellsely was not facing first-rate French troops or generals at this battle.  Although pro-French advocates could say the same thing about Maida in 1806, Egypt 1801, and elsewhere in order to find excuses for French defeats against the British.  Over the years there has grown a devoted following of Wellington in the Peninsular, due to books like Michael Glover's and Jac Weller's famous narratives.  English readers of the period have developed a strong pro-British bias concerning the Peninsular War.  This has been reinforced owing to a scarcity of reliable works in either Spanish or French.  It is therefore good that the author spends some time outlining the initial Portugese aspects of the 1808 campaign.<br />The author does a nice job describing the opening battles of obidos and Rolica, often over-looked in any detail by general histories of the campagn.  Here the Osprey OOBs and nice maps convey the action well and pointed out some deatils that I was not aware of concerning these actions.<br />Unfortunately for Vimero itself, the main topic of the book, the narrative falls somewhat short.  The description of the battle itself is all too brief.  Even the maps, while colorful are not as tactical as they should be.  For such a small scale action one would think that very detailed maps for all the battalions involved would have been possible.  The narrative simply describes the French assaults and their repulse with little detail.  Some mention is made of the flanking movement and that the two French brigades were deployed in linear or mixed order formations, but nothing more is mentioned.  More detail on this would have clarifed the old line vs column debate.<br />Despite the fact that the French may have been second-rate troops, they still believed in their superiority, and Junot was counting on this when he threw them at Wellsley's position at Vimero.  I think all the hero worship over the years concerning the French marshalete has made them a bit into straw men.  When Bonny was not around and faced with competent adversaries they often did not do as well.  Certainly Junot was no Massena or Soult, but they really didn't fight that much differently in the tactical sense.  Wellington was unique in that he was both a supurb strategist and tactician.  Most of the French Marshals were decent to good strategists, but weak tactcially, except perhaps for Davout.  Even Napolean never concerned himself that much with tactical matters after his campaigns in Italy.  Wellington could do both.<br />The elements of the battle involved at Vimero would come back to haunt the French over and over again in the Peninsular.  Poor recon of the British positions, hasty attacks in battalion or brigade columns, and no combined arms.  Junot had a division of cavalry that was hardly used, despite the difficult terrian, and his 23 guns saw no action from what I can tell.  Junot expected the vaulted French infantry to do it all.  The author shows that the British repulsed the French columns with one or two massive vollies, followed by a determined advance with the bayonet.  Quite different from the methodical platoon vollies we have often heard about from Oman and Weller. More on this would have been interesting.<br />While brief in content, this volume presents a nice, fairly detailed picture of the battle.  The aftermath events leading up to the Coruna campaign are nicely shown.  Overall a decent production, despite the high price for an 80 page book.  The maps and OOBs are good for wargamers and students wanting a moredetailed appreciation of these battles.more detailed appreciation of these battles.	2004-03-04
US	50552445	RC2RQH0LF3KVU	0141390417	594475621	The Peninsular War, 1807-1814 (Penguin Classic Military History)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Hurrah For Old Nosey!	This us a classic study of the Peninsular War of 1808-14.  Readers will find it less overtly pro-British than Jac Weller's &quot;Wellington in the Peninsular&quot;.  There is an attempt here by the author to show more of the political and historical background which indicates the wider scope of the book over Weller's work.  The French and Spanish side of the story is also elaborated on more which is refreshing for an English work.  Glover spends less time providing minute detail on the battles, although he covers a wider array of events, i.e. not just the battles Wellington was involved in personally.<br />The Spanish reader above was evidently upset about the British and Wellington claiming all the glory of removing the French from Spain.  I am sure most Spanish are not aware of this rather sad period in their history when their country was too weak and inefficient to remove Napolean's brother from the crown.  The Spanish army was quite simply one of the worst trained and officered in Europe!  The Juanta that was established after Napolean removed the king was also divided and unstable.  True the Spanish prople resisted the French in many ways, and the Peninsular War is often referred to as one of the first people's wars of the 19th century. But Spain never could have defeated Napolean without the British.  It's just that simple.<br />The people of Spain owe Wellington and Tommy Atkins a great debt for what they did.  Sure Britain's motives were self-centered, Spain was a means by which they could confront Napolean with their limited land resources, and they took advantage of that fact.  The poor showing of the Spanish army and leadership must be embarrassing to a spaniard in this period, but its better to learn from the past than try to deny it!  This book gives credit to the Spanish soldiers who fought well when not compromised by their poor leaders.  It also credits the Sapnish resistence with holding down many French battalions which might have overwhelmed Wellington if available.  Wellington had some very unflattering things to say about the Spanish leadership, and this might be upsetting to some today, but the fact is the Britsih had to campaign on their own in Spain.  The few times they tried to coordinate with Spanish forces directly almost never worked.  Spanish generals like Cuesta, Blake and Ballastros were incompetent fools!  These poorly lead Spanish armies did keep the French off balance and in their own sloppy way contributed as well to the final French defeat in Spain.<br />The fact is without Wellington the Spanish never could have done it!  This book does a fine job pointing out all these facts and is very even-handed.  True there are not many works in English on the Spanish perspective, but I suspect if there were they might be of dubious quality at best!  Even some French memoirs have to be handled with care, as the author points out sometimes.  A classic work on a complicated subject.  Good to see it back in print again for such a reasonable price.Wellington if available.  Wellington had some very unflattering things to say about the Spanish leadership, and this might be upsetting to some today, but the fact is the Britsih had to campaign on their own in Spain.  The few times they tried to coordinate with Spanish forces directly almost never worked.  Spanish generals like Cuesta, Blake and Ballastros were incompetent fools!  These poorly lead Spanish armies did keep the French off balance and in their own sloppy way contributed as well to the final French defeat in Spain.   <br />The fact is without Wellington the Spanish never could have done it!  This book does a fine job pointing out all these facts and is very even-handed.  True there are not many works in English on the Spanish perspective, but I suspect if there were they might be of dubious quality at best!  Even some French memoirs have to be handled with care, as the author points out sometimes.  A classic work on a complicated subject.  Good to see it back in print again for such a reasonable price.	2004-02-27
US	50552445	R3670V3AMWND4I	1853671274	879923008	Wellington in the Peninsula 1808-1814 (Napoleonic Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;52nd, Avenge Sir John Moore!&quot;	These were the words of Robert Crauford, the maverick commander of the British Light Division as he brought his line to smash the French columns at Busaco in 1810.  This single volume history of the Peninsular War has many such memorable quotes.  I first came across this book many years ago and was pleased to see that it had finally been re-printed.  While decidedly pro-British and heavy on the adulation of the Iron Duke, this study provides a lot of fascinating information in a relatively short space of time.  Working more or less in the Oman/Fortescue tradition, Weller seldom faults Wellington for anything, and considers him one of the superlative commanders of history.<br />Weller provides some very deatiled desriptions of battles. His line vs column debate continues to intrigue historians of the Napoleanic wars today.  Did the French really always fight in single and double columns all the time?  Some more recent historians claim they did not, and the earlier studies of Oman/Fortescue often mistook the L'order Mixed formamtion which was a combination of line and column that the French often employed.  Whatever formations the French used, Wellington often ensured the tactical advantage by concealing his men on the reverse slope.  British fire discipline usually took care of the rest!<br />The book is greatly enhanced by the author's personal photographs of the locales described.  These provide valauble insight to many of the battles discussed.  The maps, while crude by modern standards, are also functional and helpful. Some may be annoyed by the love of Wellington expressed therein, and any admirers of Napolean and his marshals will certainly see their favorites not coming off well.  Why was it the French could never win a battle against the British here?  A classic work of a generation ago, worth the while of any serious students of the Peninsular War, and for all Sharpe series fans as well!	2004-02-20
US	50552445	R1G5LT22H7V2IU	0140294309	83170331	Sharpe's Eagle (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sharpe at Talavera	This is probably one of the best Sharpe novels in the series.  It was one of the first that Cornwell wrote and his attention to the details of the Talavera campaign is excellent.  Here we have Sharpe and his detached half-company of rifles doing standard duties on the skirmish line.  There is a minimum of running around behind the enemy lines defying the odds as we so often get in the later novels.  The episode at the bridge is a study of military incompetence.  Sir Henry Simmerson, our classic snobby bad Anglo-aristo, becomes one of Sharpe's perenial enemies here.  People like this did try to make life difficult for Wellsely in English politics and the novel picks up correctly on that, albeit a bit heavy handed at times.<br />The high-light of the story is certianly the build-up to the battle of Talavera in 1809.  This was one of Wellsely's most difficult and dangerous battles, and his most costly after Assaye in India.  The battle scenes are carefully constructed and taken heavily from Jac Weller's well known &quot;Wellington in the Peninsular&quot;.  Sharpe is cleverly inserted into the action in ways which are believeable and mesh with the history.  His double confrontation with Messhrs. Berry and Gibbons illustrates how many old scores were likely settled during the confusion of battle.<br />Wellsley won a narrow victory at Talavera, winning his title of viscount Wellington, but losing a quarter of his army in the process. Cornwell does a great job describing the fascinating horror of Napoleanic combat.  This is really his forte, and the descriptions of French columns slamming into British lines is right out of Jac Weller.  This book is certainly vintage Sharpe, and remains one of the best.<br />It is a pity that the television version of this novel could not convey the scope of the battle.  The tongue and cheek nature of the TV productions does a bit of dis-service to Cornwell in that way.  Still, one of the best early Sharpe books.	2004-02-13
US	50552445	R3CEOOYHPFXE1Z	0060530464	695590648	Sharpe's Havoc: Richard Sharpe & the Campaign in Northern Portugal, Spring 1809 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #7)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Sharpe, Back in the Saddle Again!	Sharpe is once more back in Portugal with his friends in the 95th Rifles.  This novel is intended to slip inbetween the previous &quot;Sharpe's Rifles&quot; and &quot;Eagle.&quot;  I suppose it does.  Cornwell has cleverly crafted these novels so that each stands on its own.  When he first started this series over 10 years ago he never imagined the success it would enjoy.  After charging through the campaigns in Portugal and Waterloo he began to back peddle into Sharpe's earlier career to fill out more stories for the series.  Thus we have the whole India novels and others which have filled in our heros earlier career.<br />This installment more or less ties up the whole series, but I am sure Cornwell can still get some milage out of Sharpe yet!  Here we have the standard formula that has served Cornwell so well over the years.  His writing is always simple, direct and exciting.  He has crafted these books down to an elegant system which consistently works despite often repeating the same elements over and over.  Sharpe always has to face some arrogant English fop officer, he's usually detached with his merry half company of riflemen, safely away from the 2/95th which should be back in England recruiting.  And he is always on some vague mission for Hogan or Wellington behind the lines which enables him to exercise his independent judgement.  If Sharpe we stuck having to fight in the skirmish line along with everyone else then these stories would not seem half so appealing.  In other words if Sharpe had to perform standard duties for a Rifle or Light company officer Cornwell could never have carried the series as far as he has.  It's Sharpe's independence which allows Cornwell to develope action and suspence in the series, with a little romance thrown in as well.  This time there is only a hint that Sharpe will get the girl in the end!<br />So again we have Sharpe fighting what has become his standard alone on the mountain fort routine against impossible odds.  It would seem to be the same old business as usual if Cornwell weren't so gifted in making it interesting and a little different each time.  After facing off the French as usual Sharpe and co. rejoin the main action in standard fashion.  In this case we have the celebrated action of Colonel Waters and the 3rd Buffs at the Seminary of Oporto.  Cornwell neatly inserts  Sharpe into the action, giving him credit for getting the Buffs over the river which rightfully belongs to a Portugeuse barber who actually found the boats.  Cornwell appologises for this alteration of history, as well as others in order to make his story.<br />The French always come in for particular rancor in these novels.  Its almost as if Cornwell wants to put down the hero worship of Naoplean and his marshals during this period.  Soult appears like a cream-puff with his pretensions to the crown of Portugal and his concern more for cusine than military dispositions.  The French themselves as always look like a bunch of pillaging rapists practicing the Napoleanic principles of living off the land.  Cornwell shows us what that term often implied.  The final battle itself is always well done, Cornwell provides an exciting account of the several fruitless French assaults upon the Buffs at the Seminary.  His descriptions always make the action seem a lot more bloody than it actually was, but to the men involved it must have seemed that way. Once the main action is over Sharpe is back on his own to settle old scores with the current bad guy of the novel, in this case the nasty and effiminate colonel Christopher who really can't provide a decent challenge for our hero so there is no grand sword fight at the end.  Sharpe coldly disposes of him in the midst of the French army's epic retreat from Oporto.  There is one worthwhile French character based on reality, the heroic Major Dulong who actually did save Soult's army at the bridges in question.  Such men did make the French army what it was, even if their dashand ardor could not often stand up to the murderous British platoon vollies encountered in the Peninsular.  As always Cornwell does a splendid job conjuring up these images from a colorful period of warfare.  Shapre marches on again.r dash and ardor could not often stand up to the murderous British platoon vollies encountered in the Peninsular.  As always Cornwell does a splendid job conjuring up these images from a colorful period of warfare.  Shapre marches on again.	2004-01-31
US	50552445	R1YGJLEAMR8QS7	1565122496	857279933	A Frozen Hell: The Russo-Finnish Winter War of 1939-1940	Books	5	11	13	N	N	White Death in Finland	This well balanced book chronicles the events leading up to and including the Soviet invasion of Finland in 1939-40.  Like many I have often heard references to the gallent stand the Finns made against the massive Soviet efforts to conquer them.  The scarcity of materials available in print often restricted any further interest.  Upon viewing the amazing Finnish movie \\"The Winter War\\" I became once again interested in learning more about this topic.<br />This book does the subject much justice.  While the author's sympathies are certainly with the Finns, he does not allow this to bias his opinion toward the actions of Stalin and the Soviets in general.  There are few more inspiring examples of a small nation fighting heroically against a big nation.  The determined stand the Finns made on the Mannerheim Line for 70 days surely rivals that of the Spartans at Thermopolaye 480 BC.  The author shows us that only the Finnish army was capable of such a feat at that moment in history.  Uniquely adapted to their frozen environment, the Finnish soldier was flexible, heroic, and a deadly fighter.  Trotter believes that in their own country, fighting on the defense, the Finnish army was probably the best there was at that time.  The army prided itself on a no-nonesense approach toward war, and had been schooled for years in making the most of their meager resources in a limited economy.  The Soviets in contrast were a newly created force from the days of the Revolution in Russia. While lavishly equipped, the army was untried in a conventional war.  The Stalinst purges all through the 1930s had empitied the competent officer class, leaving the army under the leadership of party thugs and incompetents.  The contrast between the heavy, crude doctrines of the Soviets as opposed to the light, nimble Finns is striking.  The reader will find numerous examples of Finnish platoons and companies decimating entire Russian battalions and regiments.  When it comes to the blow by blow account of the actual campaign Trotter engages the reader with an exciting and detailed narrative.  Again, while his passion is certainly with the embattled Finns, praise is also given to the often suicidal bravery of the Russian soldiers who were thrown away by the thousands in mass attacks against fixed positions.<br />In the end the Finns must submit to the enivitable as the Soviets finally get their act together and begin to apply concerted pressure all along the front.  The Mannerheim line holds out for 70 days, but must fall eventually to coordinated, massive Soviet assaults.  Finland is forced to accept Stalin's peace, requiring the loss of extensive border territories near Leningrad and elsewhere.  Had the Finns not fought they might have gott'en more modest pre-war demands, but there was no assurance that this would have been all that Stalin wanted.  By fighting Finland showed the world that a nation of 3 million could stand up to over 170 million Russians!  The sacrefice of nearly 70,000 men enabled the Finns to retain their indepedence, even if compromised.  Russian losses will probably never been known but must easily exceed 250,000. Trotter discusses the subsequent alliance with Nazi Germany which was controversial for the Finns.  Readers will find this an excellent and exciting work on a little known aspect of the Second World War.  Highly recommended.ount of the actual campaign Trotter engages the reader with an exciting and detailed narrative.  Again, while his passion is certainly with the embattled Finns, praise is also given to the often suicidal bravery of the Russian soldiers who were thrown away by the thousands in mass attacks against fixed positions.  <br />In the end the Finns must submit to the enivitable as the Soviets finally get their act together and begin to apply concerted pressure all along the front.  The Mannerheim line holds out for 70 days, but must fall eventually to coordinated, massive Soviet assaults.  Finland is forced to accept Stalin's peace, requiring the loss of extensive border territories near Leningrad and elsewhere.  Had the Finns not fought they might have gott'en more modest pre-war demands, but there was no assurance that this would have been all that Stalin wanted.  By fighting Finland showed the world that a nation of 3 million could stand up to over 170 million Russians!  The sacrefice of nearly 70,000 men enabled the Finns to retain their indepedence, even if compromised.  Russian losses will probably never been known but must easily exceed 250,000. Trotter discusses the subsequent alliance with Nazi Germany which was controversial for the Finns.  Readers will find this an excellent and exciting work on a little known aspect of the Second World War.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-22
US	50552445	R1YTCE9NQF2I3O	0300084617	123292622	Battle Tactics of the Civil War (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	5	21	34	N	Y	A Brit's Critical Analysis of the Civil War	What Paddy Griffth did here in 1989 was something no American historian on the Civil War ever had the courage to do.  Griffith, not being an American, was able to take a dis-passionate, and objective look at our Civil War in order to discover many of its fallacies.  This was something we have not been able to do because as Americans we have been so enthralled by our Civil War that it has become sacred to us.  This was a pioneering book which dared to look at Civil War combat and compare it to other conflicts.<br />Paddy Griifth poises the question was the Civil War truly a precursor to so called modern warfare, i.e. World War One? Or was it really just bad Napoleanics!  This slender volume takes on that large and interesting question, and covers a lot of ground in just 200 odd pages.  If we really look at how tactical combat was condcuted in the Civil war there is a lot that just does not make sense.  Why were the battles so indicisive?  Were the new rifled weapons really changing the battlefield?  Griffith shows us that above all else staff work was really poor.  Generals could barely manage their troops, and it is no wonder that battles became crude, head-on affairs.  Even the so-called genuses of the war, the Lee's, Jackson's and Grant's start to look more like average generals trying to wrestle with  crude armies when subjected to the kind of analysis that is applied here.<br />The Civil War has been made into such hyberbole by past and present American historians that is has been difficult to stand back and really take an objective look at it.  No doubt these very same people, as evidenced by some of the reviewers here, will take great offense at what Griffith is trying to get at here.  The Civil War was a poorly fought conflict.  The armies were hasily created out of nothing, and as a result could do little more than blaze away at each other.  The infantry tended to be held back by an inate tendnecy to fire and dig in, the cavalry was religated to doing next to nothing for the first half of the war, and the artillery was never properly employed.  When we look at the conflict subjectively, its diffiuclt not to agree with Von Moltkes' assessment that the Civil War was nothing more than armed mobs roving about the woodlands of North America!<br />Infantry fire power has been greatly over-rated in this war.  The new rifled muskets had potentially greater range, but the troops were rarely encouraged to employ it.  Studies of firefights show ranges roughly similar to Napoleanic period with smoothbores!  Yet the basic tendency of Americans was to stand and shot, rather than to maneauver and develope the battlefield, even though the French tactical doctrine that they based their training on emphisized battlefield movement.  When advantages were gained, there was nothing to exploit success because there was no battlefield cavalry to do so.  Even the famed JEB Staurt never used his 10,000 Confederate cavalry to acheive any kind of massed charge on the battlefield which might have provided decisive victory.  Instead he was content to ride around the rear of the Union army making petty raids!<br />In all fairness to the ametuer nature of the armies on both sides Griffith does show that there was potential, and as the war dragged on innovative commanders did achieve noteworthy successes on occasion.  Because the armies had to be created from the ground up everything had to be learned on the job.  Each regiment was trained at a different level and achieved experience at different rates.  Brigade commanders had to hope that their regiments could cope with each tactical situation on a ad hoc basis.  The Civil War shows what has become until recently the American way of war.  Create an army from scratch, throw it together, learn on the job, mkae horrondus mistakes, but learn and somehow get better.  The Civil War armies did just that, and if the conflict appears less innovative under scutiny, this still does not detract from what they were able to accomplish.<br />In his conclusion Paddy Griffith shows us that if we want to look to the first truly modern war we must examine the Franco-Prussian 1870 conflict in greater detail.  The Civil War has wrongly taken that place because of the endless promoting of American historians.  While written a few years ago, Paddy Griffth's work is still quite relivant, and the field of Civil war tactical analysis is still largely devoid of any new works, despite over 200,000 published books on the Civil War!  What Griffith began here has been taken up recently by Mr. Noseworthy in his book &quot;The Bloody Crucible of Combat: Civil War fighting Methods&quot;.  But the field is still wide open for investigation if any Civil War historian is brave enough to challenege the chreished notions of the confilct.  Only by reading books like this can we began to place the Civil War into proper perspective and learn how it truly contributed to the development of Western Warfare.re able to accomplish.<br />In his conclusion Paddy Griffith shows us that if we want to look to the first truly modern war we must examine the Franco-Prussian 1870 conflict in greater detail.  The Civil War has wrongly taken that place because of the endless promoting of American historians.  While written a few years ago, Paddy Griffth's work is still quite relivant, and the field of Civil war tactical analysis is still largely devoid of any new works, despite over 200,000 published books on the Civil War!  What Griffith began here has been taken up recently by Mr. Noseworthy in his book &quot;The Bloody Crucible of Combat: Civil War fighting Methods&quot;.  But the field is still wide open for investigation if any Civil War historian is brave enough to challenege the chreished notions of the confilct.  Only by reading books like this can we began to place the Civil War into proper perspective and learn how it truly contributed to the development of Western Warfare.	2004-01-05
US	50552445	R2UZO3HXZ61SYW	0670032115	108824701	The Peloponnesian War	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Excellent Book!	This most excellent book provides a readable and concise history of the complex events surrounding the Peloponnesian War.  The author has taken the confusing and often contradictory epiosdes associated with this conflict and broken them down into readable segments.  Those who have waded their war through Thucycidides should find this book an essential companion to that work.  While reading Thucycidides provides the fascination of a primary source, a lot of his writing is often difficult to follow as the narrative often goes on and on.  Kagan provides a lot of recent scholarship to help compare the views of Thuycidides and place them in historical context.  He also provides some background information on the strengths and weaknesses of Athens and Sparta as well as much needed historical background on events leading up to war in 431 BC.<br /> His explanation of why these two leading city states in Greece deicded to go to war at this time provides much valuable insight to understanding the reasons for this conflict.  Kagan also provides numerous excellent maps which enable the reader to follow the often complicated action as the war shifts from Attica, to the Pelopannese and then to the Aegean, Sicily and Ioanian Islands.  Most editions of Thuycidides do not provide mapes which also makes Kagan's book esstenial in understanding this war.  Kagan also provides much interesting biographical information on the numerous famous leaders associated with this conflict.  Pericles, Cleon, Brassidas, Lysander and others come to full light as we gain insights to why they made certain key strategic decisions.  Kagan also questions why certain decisions were made, taking the reader into the mind-set of the time which provides much needed analysis.<br />Anyone who has read Thuycicdes must read this book.  I can not recommend highly enough this fine work to help the reader understand this distant, yet vitally important war.  The Peloponnesian War was truly a Greek Tragedy.  We learn how this conflict would forever change the Greek world.  The barbarism and attrocities committed by both sides would have far reaching influence in future Greco-Roman wars.  The versatility of this conflcit should provide fascinating reading to the true military historian.  Here lies the origins of combined land and naval operations that were used extensively by both sides.  Again, essential reading for any interested in this fascinating period of Classical history.how this conflict would forever change the Greek world.  The barbarism and attrocities committed by both sides would have far reaching influence in future Greco-Roman wars.  The versatility of this conflcit should provide fascinating reading to the true military historian.  Here lies the origins of combined land and naval operations that were used extensively by both sides.  Again, essential reading for any interested in this fascinating period of Classical history.	2003-12-22
US	50552445	R2QKEDW3FO3S3S	0140440399	872483286	History of the Peloponnesian War	Books	4	11	16	N	N	The Classic Work of History	All serious students of military history should read Thucydides.  It took me many years to get around to him, but it was well worth it.  In order to understand all the popular topics of military history, US Civil War, WW2, etc., a reading of this work should be required.  So much in this book relates to the Western experience of war throughout the centuries.  Indeed, this work is considered one of the original primary sources of Western History, and one can easily see why.<br />Thucydides speaks of human nature, which from reading him we can see has not changed much over the centuries.  The clash between Athens and Sparta can rightly be considered one of the classic confrontations of all time.  One a naval power and the other a land power.  Such a war was bound to shack the very foundations of the classical world as the old traditions of Greek Hoplite warfare were forever changed by this conflict.  Thucydides provides us a stunning portrait of city states at war.  The arrogance, greed, cunning, desperation and cruelity are all there for us to see.  One can chart the progress of this conflict and see the effects at had on both protagonists.  Over time the original reasons for the conflict become obscure as the war takes on a life all its own, which neither side seemingly willing or able to end it.  Some of the names mentioned are well known in Greek History.  Pericles and Alcibiades must surely be the best known, but there are also Cleon, Brisadas and others.  The character of Alcibiades must surely be the most interesting, and one that we can certainly relate to in our own times.  Former US President Bill Clinton probably most resembles him.  Both are brilliant men of low social character and absolute opportunists.<br />Pure military historians may find this book a slow read at times.  There are relatively few stand up batttles except for Nemea and Mantinea, and these are given cursory descriptions at best.  The conflict consists mostly of sea-borne operations and raids.  One can see the early development of combined land and naval operations here.  The highlight of the book is surely the Sicilian campaign of 415-413.  Here Athens gambled all to become the supreme power of the classical world.  Had she prevailed Western History might have developed quite differently.  Again, arrogance and mis-judegment would undo her.<br />The constant references to strange sounding locales and peoples does not make Thucydides an easy read.  At times one will almost feel lost in the details.  The Penguin edition could use a new look with a lot more maps and visuals to aid the reader in keeping track of the action.  The existing maps are woefully inadequate.  This is the only reason why I have given this book a four star rating.  The presentation needs to be improved with a newer edition.  Those seeking to get more out of this work should consult Donald Kagan's new book on the Peloponnesian War.  The reader will find invaluable assistence here to help in their understanding of this classic work of history.nd raids.  One can see the early development of combined land and naval operations here.  The highlight of the book is surely the Sicilian campaign of 415-413.  Here Athens gambled all to become the supreme power of the classical world.  Had she prevailed Western History might have developed quite differently.  Again, arrogance and mis-judegment would undo her. <br />The constant references to strange sounding locales and peoples does not make Thucydides an easy read.  At times one will almost feel lost in the details.  The Penguin edition could use a new look with a lot more maps and visuals to aid the reader in keeping track of the action.  The existing maps are woefully inadequate.  This is the only reason why I have given this book a four star rating.  The presentation needs to be improved with a newer edition.  Those seeking to get more out of this work should consult Donald Kagan's new book on the Peloponnesian War.  The reader will find invaluable assistence here to help in their understanding of this classic work of history.	2003-11-26
US	50552445	R193VFR6UOEUU	0304359823	353403695	History of Warfare: The Wars of the Ancient Greeks	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Origins of Western Art of War.	This handsomely produced book is lavish with illustrations and diagrams.  Pictures of Greek panoply and other weapons, as well as diagrams of phalanx warfare all contribute to a vivid portrayal of ancient and classical Greek warfare. Victor Davis Hanson is in usual form here providing a convincing over-view of Greek Hoplite warfare, while re-stating many of his controversial opinions that have appeared in his other books.<br />VDH believes Greek Hopilte warfare to be the natural evolution of the free Greek city-states.  Other contemporary cultures were primarily dynastic and centralized, while Greece developed into 1,000 independent Political entities.  Geography and climate clearly played some part in this development, but it was also the unique outlook and desire of the Greeks themselves to resolve warfare quickly and decisively.  VDH provides his usual pro-Occidental outlook in comparing Greco-Western martial developments to their less effective Eastern and Asian counter-parts.  Again, many Liberal and Politically-Correct minded persons might take offensive here, and pehaps there are holes in some of these arguments.  Still, one can't help but admire VDH's bold and controversial statements.  Unlike so many today he is not affraid to make harsh judgements which are quite down-to-earth, but often not very subtle!<br />VDH has particular wrath to vent toward the conquests of Alexander whom he credits with ushering in an era of warring Hellanistic dynasties that would utilize resources from the conquered Persian empire to wage total war that was unknown to the earlier Greek Polis state.  VDH considers Alexander a drunkard and thug!  Pretty strong language to describe one of the universial Western images of classical times.  Perhaps Alexander's army was brutal in conquest, but probably no more than any other great empire.  VDH's obsession with making him out to be Hitler in Antiquity seems a bit odd and threatens to unbalance his narrative at times.  We can deffinitely see that VDH has an aggenda here, to downgrade Alexander as a Western icon of Hellenistic culture.  True, the Romans probably did make him into the larger than life conquerer that we know today.  Still, with the steady development of Greek warfare it's difficult to imagine that someone sooner or later would not have become a conquering Alexander.  VDH seems to mourn the loss of the tradtioanl culture of Hoplite warfare, that well ordered slaughter between neighboring city-states,  but its development into an imperial system was bound to take shape sooner or later. Otherwise the Greeks themselves would have become victem to eventual conquest by an outside empire, as was the case later with the Romans.<br />If you don't mind VDH's tirades against Alexander, then this is still a most excellent work with great illustrations and diagrams which help to bring a vivid impression to life of warfare in ancient and classical Greece.  The book does make you want to read more, including the primary works of the period.itely see that VDH has an aggenda here, to downgrade Alexander as a Western icon of Hellenistic culture.  True, the Romans probably did make him into the larger than life conquerer that we know today.  Still, with the steady development of Greek warfare it's difficult to imagine that someone sooner or later would not have become a conquering Alexander.  VDH seems to mourn the loss of the tradtioanl culture of Hoplite warfare, that well ordered slaughter between neighboring city-states,  but its development into an imperial system was bound to take shape sooner or later. Otherwise the Greeks themselves would have become victem to eventual conquest by an outside empire, as was the case later with the Romans. <br />If you don't mind VDH's tirades against Alexander, then this is still a most excellent work with great illustrations and diagrams which help to bring a vivid impression to life of warfare in ancient and classical Greece.  The book does make you want to read more, including the primary works of the period.	2003-10-04
US	50552445	R3QV0INH9HODUI	0520219112	512271768	The Western Way of War: Infantry Battle in Classical Greece	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The Origins of Western Shock Combat Technique	In this early work Victor Hanson Davies (VHD) explains what has become his central thesis in military history: The origins and growth of Western military superiority in the art of war.  According to VHD we owe much of our military greatness in the West to the legacy of the Greeks who made war their past-time.  The Greek hoplite developed the close order formation of phalanx warfare, a hallmark of what has become the disciplined nature of how Wetsern society wages war.  This method broke away from the earlier heroic tradition of fighting where battle was often a series of individualized combats between warrior champions.  The Greeks went one step further by taking the warrior and making him into a hoplite.  By doing so they created the most effective fighting techniques known to  classical man.  VHD always enjoys being controversial, and many of his ideas may be perceived as being biased and pro-Western, but his grasp of history and antiquity in particular can't be denied.  Even the politically correct, the ones most likely to be offended by these views, will have a difficult time denying some of the facts presented.<br />Greek hoplite warfare was both destructive and limited in scope. It seems the Greeks wished it to be so.  By making war so horrific in the short term they ensured that only those directly involved would be harmed.  This was how the Greek City State thought war should be resolved.  By mutual agreement, at a set place and time.  It was a brutal, yet logical method which over time developed a style of close-combat unmatched by other cultures.  Over time the Greek Polis was gradually eroded, and with Philip and Alexander of Macedon the eventual dream of a united Greece was finally realized.  With that came the means to export this lethal style of war abroad for more productive purposes.<br />The book goes to great lengths to describe the various aspects of hoplie warfare in great detail.  Constant referebce are made to the writers and philosophers of Classical Greece who fought in many of the battles themselves.  VHD provides an anatomy of Greek hoplite warfare, describing each part of the panoply which the individual wore into battle.  In fact this book gives you as close a feel for what those intense, sweaty, violent and bloody conflicts must have been like, without actually being there! From those small enclosed valleys in Greece has evolved our deadly tradition of Western war.  The paradox that VHD points out is that the very means that created this tradition could well destroy itself today.  Modern technology combined with the stand-up battle tradition is a deadly combination, one that can not be played with in the Atomic age.  If nothing else we should learn from the legacy of the Classical Greeks what our own true lethality is.Classical Greece who fought in many of the battles themselves.  VHD provides an anatomy of Greek hoplite warfare, describing each part of the panoply which the individual wore into battle.  In fact this book gives you as close a feel for what those intense, sweaty, violent and bloody conflicts must have been like, without actually being there! From those small enclosed valleys in Greece has evolved our deadly tradition of Western war.  The paradox that VHD points out is that the very means that created this tradition could well destroy itself today.  Modern technology combined with the stand-up battle tradition is a deadly combination, one that can not be played with in the Atomic age.  If nothing else we should learn from the legacy of the Classical Greeks what our own true lethality is.	2003-09-24
US	50552445	R11UZHSL6W6JN4	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Always Controversial	What's great about VDH is that he is not affraid to tackle contversial topics, or to see old events in a new light.  What he has done here is taken the old analysis of battles a la Creasy, and elevated it to a whole new level.  Seven pivital battles are examined, which in VDH's opinion define the West's battlefield superiority over the centuries.  The battles are examined not only from the  military perspective, but from social and idealogical slants as well.  VDH is a different kind of military historian, perhaps considered too radical or conservetive for some, but deffinitely worth reading to gain different insights into well chatered waters.<br />The battles discussed are all well known, some more than others.  In his chatpter on Cortes and the conquest of the Aztecs, VDH dares to challenege the popular notion of the poor natives versus the cruel European colonizers.  VDH clearly shows that Cortez and the Spainish were ruthless, but also remarkable at the same time.  And the Aztecs were no shrinking violets, a huge native empire that ruled over all others in Central America by terror and human sacrefices.  We see the Spanish conquest of Central America in a new light, less simplistic and more within the context of the times.  The same is done with the Zulu War of 1879.  Myth and hero worship of the Zulu warrior is debunked by showing that it was the heavily burdened redcoat, always outnumbered, far from home, but the product of a civil militia tradition that harkens back to Greco-Roman times who was better.  This inate discipline has enabled the West to consistently defeat the Other in many battles.  The West's superior technology, often used by revisionists to debunk these victories is seen as part of the Occident's ability to develop science and technology without restriction from government or religion.  This has constantly restricted the effective development of armies in Islam, as well as other cultures.  The fact that the Western soldier is not a slave, like his non-western counter-part often is, also gives him added strength and iniative in battle.<br />The book concludes with the battle of Midway and the Tet offensive.  At Midway the US confronted a modern Japanese Navy, which was still under the influences of feudalism.  VDH provides a fascinating analysis of how Japan could only develope modernity to a limited point in its otherwise closed society. The Japanese started WW2 with modern weapsons, but because of their imporation of Western technology, without the social freedoms that made it possible, the Imperial armies would soon find themselves out-classed by vastly superior weapons in thr US developed on a scale never possible in socially feudal Japan.<br />The book concludes with a conversial discussion on Viet Nam and the Tet Offensive of 1968.  Here many will find VDH's views hard to swallow, but his arguments carry some truth to them.  The US war effort in Nam was severely restricted by politics and social unrest, which prevented the military from exploiting the sucesses it managed to achieve.  Here VDH shows that the West can also be undermined by the very freedoms that often give it so much strength in War.  The press and Liberal opinions sided with the Communists in the war, regardless of what attrocities they committed.  Public opinion refused to see otherwise, and would pounce harshly on any bumbled US operations.  The US attrocities at My Lai pale in comparison to what the NVA was doing in the countryside to intimidate the peasants, but the Abby Hoffmans and Jane Fondas of the time wanted nothing less than a total US defeat!  Such are the occasional mixed blessings of a free society at war in a nasty conflict.<br />This is a book which many will consider Right wing or conservetive.  For sure die-hard Liberals and the Politically Correct will be offended here, but VDH while passing hard judgement on them, is also critical of government and the military establishment.  Also his grasp on military and social history is hard to deny, and the writing is forceful and direct, if a bit redundant at time.  VDH likes to pound his views home, and in several of his books the reader may sometimes tire of the rhetorical nature of his arguments.  VDH often argues and debates like an old Roman or Greek statesmen.  He is elegent, but repetitive at times.  Still, this is quite a thought provoking book which redresses a lot of the revisionists who have downgraded the military acheievments of the West recently.  Like him or no, VDH is always controversial, informative, and never affraid to debate unpopular issues.and social history is hard to deny, and the writing is forceful and direct, if a bit redundant at time.  VDH likes to pound his views home, and in several of his books the reader may sometimes tire of the rhetorical nature of his arguments.  VDH often argues and debates like an old Roman or Greek statesmen.  He is elegent, but repetitive at times.  Still, this is quite a thought provoking book which redresses a lot of the revisionists who have downgraded the military acheievments of the West recently.  Like him or no, VDH is always controversial, informative, and never affraid to debate unpopular issues.	2003-09-10
US	50552445	R1CINK1ROL8QBW	0786711477	913565174	The Bloody Crucible of Courage: Fighting Methods and Combat Experience of the Civil War	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Finally, How The Civil War Was Really Fought!	This superlative book is one of the first to breakthrough many of the myths and lore that have become so common in the study of our Civil War.  Americans relish this conflict as a national rite of passage, yet seldom has a war been so venerated, with so little known about how it was actually fought.  There have been countless books on this subject, yet few provide any solid picture as to how troops actually fought, with what methods, and how their weapons performed in the bloody crucible of combat.<br />This is a book that the study of the Civil War has long awaited.  Yet, its acceptence may be hard for many devotees to accept.  The American Civil War has cherished many myths and ideas, which, when taken out of their isolaoted context and compared with other conflicts of the time may seem less significant.  This will be hard for many Civil War fans to swallow  at first, but if they are to emerge with a greater understanding of this conflict, they must allow their beloved topic to be studied out of its box. This is something which the subject has long demanded, and which many the so-called experts in the field have been unable to do.  Here Mr. Nosworthy has carefully studied the Civil War in comparison with contemporary wars of the day to provide a comparative analysis.  We learn how the military studies of Jomini actually distorted how Americans perceived true Napoleanic tactics.  Jomini was a conservetive French military writer who drew upon aspects of Napoleanic tactics to support his own views.  The results across the Atlantic in America was a bizarre hybrid of columnar and linear tactics which would make the Civil War so difficult to compare to other conflicts.  In fact if we look at the grand tactical elements of many of the Civil War battles we might be surprised to learn how un-Napoleanic they actually were.  Jomini was more an advocate of 18th century linear warfare, where control of the entire line of battle was essential.  This satisfied his conservetive ideas well, while to appear modern he threw in a few columns of the Napoleanic Wars just for good measure!  we tend to look on civil war battles as more or less linear engagements, or heavy skirmish lines where prolonged firefights dragged on for hours.  Nosworthy shows us that columns were indeed used, though not the flexible smaller ones of the Napoleanic period.  Civil war troops were frequently deployed into columns of regimental width, arrayed along successive lines.  Many battles saw this employment, yet this is something which has gone over the heads of most Civil War historians.  American officers, following more or less the Jomini principles, added their own variations by tending to deploy early in most engagements.  Civil War troops might march into battle in column, but they were generally formed into line.  Still, these tactical distinctions so long ignored by many, are brought to the fore here for the first time.<br />Nosworthy is also careful to interlace primary accounts within his text to provide first hand accounts of how formations were used.  This goes to show that such information was always there, but was never examined in this light before.  Many contemporary journals are also used to show how current debates of the time discussed the issues at hand.  These have long been ignored by most historians of the conflict.  Instead, most secondary works have concentrated on troop movements, commanders decisions, and some general descriptions of how bloody some of the battles were.  Our fuller understanding of how grand tactics played themselves out on the battlefiled have been largely ignored by these historians.  Nosworthy further explains that in order to understand the nature of Civil War combat we must see how military matters stood abroad.  This is something most have been unwiulling or unable to do.  We learn for example how many American historians have wrongly attributed Napoleanic tactics to Napolean I, instead of to his grandson Napolean III who was a contemporary of the Civil War.  References to Napoleanic tactics at the time were intended to mean this, but over the years Americans became confused over which Napolean was actually concerned!  This subtle, but vitally important difference has been lost on generations of Civil War historians.  We must remember that French military doctrine and style were vital until the eclispe of the Second Empire by the Prussians in 1870.  The wars of Napolean III in Moracco, Italy and the Crimea had profound influences on American military thought.  This has largely been forgotten in most studies today.  In their desire to make the Civil War a purely \\"American\\" expereince, many American historians simpy overlooked these important facts.  They have continued to do so today.<br />Nosworthy attempts to break the Civil War down into various parts so that we can see the variations that existed.  He creates for us an anatomy of Civil War combat. This has not been done before to this extent here.  We learn how combat differed in the Eastern and Western threaters of the war, we also see developments in ironclad technology, artillery, cavalry and infantry.  We even see how ilregulars like Forest and Moseby conducted their hit and run battles.  All of these aspects are discussed clearly, in one single volume, without bias, and without the legends and lore of the Civil War distorting matters.  This book also dispels many myths about combat in the Civil War.  Infantry firefights generally took place at much shorter ranges than we have been lead to believe.  We learn that rifled muskets might not have been the sole reason for increased casaulty rates.  Most Americans, unlike their European counterparts, were more familar with firearms because of the frontier style of life many had adopted in the Southern and Western parts of the country.  In combat this translated into more accurate fire whether with rifled or smoothbore muskets.  The stresses of combat often profoundly influenced how weapons performed as oppsed to the testing ground. Few studies have taken this into account.  The bayonet, so often lauded as the decisive weapon of the war, was in fact more a pyschological threat than a physical one.  There is a big difference between a bayonet fight and a bayonet charge.  Many Civil War memoirs often don't make the difference.  The former was very rare, while the latter more commonplace and almost never resulted in actual combat between opposing troops in open ground.  Such careful reading into these accounts enables us to perceive details that were never considered before.<br />The final summation shows us that Europeans did not discount the Civil War, but simply saw it as one of many conflcits of the period.  Many of the so-called firsts of the war which American historians are so proud to point out had in fact taken place already in earlier conflicts.  The use of Ironclad technology, rifled muskets, railroads, etc had already occured by the time of the Civil War. The subsequent development of Prussian tactics employing skirmish lines supported by small mobile columns would revolutionize future tactics and provided a tactical flexibility that was unknown on the Civil War battlefield.<br />The final conclusion of this book is that the American Civil War needs to be studied outside of its own little box if it is to have any significant place in the evolution of warfare.  Some readers may find this hard to swallow, but it is so. This book should take its place along side the lenghty tomes of Mcpherson, Sears, Foote et al.  By reading this book you will get a better understanding of the Civil war than has yet been provided to date on the nuts and bolts of the conflict.  Highly recommended for serious Civil War buffs, re-enactors, wargamers, and all who want to get a better understanding of how the Civil War was really fought.ho was a contemporary of the Civil War.  References to Napoleanic tactics at the time were intended to mean this, but over the years Americans became confused over which Napolean was actually concerned!  This subtle, but vitally important difference has been lost on generations of Civil War historians.  We must remember that French military doctrine and style were vital until the eclispe of the Second Empire by the Prussians in 1870.  The wars of Napolean III in Moracco, Italy and the Crimea had profound influences on American military thought.  This has largely been forgotten in most studies today.  In their desire to make the Civil War a purely \\"American\\" expereince, many American historians simpy overlooked these important facts.  They have continued to do so today. <br />Nosworthy attempts to break the Civil War down into various parts so that we can see the variations that existed.  He creates for us an anatomy of Civil War combat. This has not been done before to this extent here.  We learn how combat differed in the Eastern and Western threaters of the war, we also see developments in ironclad technology, artillery, cavalry and infantry.  We even see how ilregulars like Forest and Moseby conducted their hit and run battles.  All of these aspects are discussed clearly, in one single volume, without bias, and without the legends and lore of the Civil War distorting matters.  This book also dispels many myths about combat in the Civil War.  Infantry firefights generally took place at much shorter ranges than we have been lead to believe.  We learn that rifled muskets might not have been the sole reason for increased casaulty rates.  Most Americans, unlike their European counterparts, were more familar with firearms because of the frontier style of life many had adopted in the Southern and Western parts of the country.  In combat this translated into more accurate fire whether with rifled or smoothbore muskets.  The stresses of combat often profoundly influencedhow weapons performed as oppsed to the testing ground. Few studies have taken this into account.  The bayonet, so often lauded as the decisive weapon of the war, was in fact more a pyschological threat than a physical one.  There is a big difference between a bayonet fight and a bayonet charge.  Many Civil War memoirs often don't make the difference.  The former was very rare, while the latter more commonplace and almost never resulted in actual combat between opposing troops in open ground.  Such careful reading into these accounts enables us to perceive details that were never considered before.  <br />The final summation shows us that Europeans did not discount the Civil War, but simply saw it as one of many conflcits of the period.  Many of the so-called firsts of the war which American historians are so proud to point out had in fact taken place already in earlier conflicts.  The use of Ironclad technology, rifled muskets, railroads, etc had already occured by the time of the Civil War. The subsequent development of Prussian tactics employing skirmish lines supported by small mobile columns would revolutionize future tactics and provided a tactical flexibility that was unknown on the Civil War battlefield.  <br />The final conclusion of this book is that the American Civil War needs to be studied outside of its own little box if it is to have any significant place in the evolution of warfare.  Some readers may find this hard to swallow, but it is so. This book should take its place along side the lenghty tomes of Mcpherson, Sears, Foote et al.  By reading this book you will get a better understanding of the Civil war than has yet been provided to date on the nuts and bolts of the conflict.  Highly recommended for serious Civil War buffs, re-enactors, wargamers, and all who want to get a better understanding of how the Civil War was really fought.	2003-08-07
US	50552445	R2FVILO9JSFHSV	1893554732	996732934	Mexifornia: A State of Becoming	Books	5	29	34	N	N	A Tinely Debate!	An excellent book on a timely subject.  The massive flow of illegal immigration in the US has been largely ignorted by politicians.  The PC crowd have succeeded in labeling anyone as racist who brings up this subject.  Only Victor Hanson Davis has the courage to address this growing problem.  The massive influx of immigration in California is not the only area where this problem is most acute.  The Eastern parts of the US are also suffering from this problem.  Hanson, the philosophic military historian tackles this controversial issue with the same passion and factual analysis that he has applied to all his other books.<br />Hanson writes with clarity and vision. His determination to take on non-historical topics is broadening his perspective, and making him something of a sage on the current American political-social scene.  With his anti-establishment views toward the University elite who are detached from the every day problems in America today, Hanson provides cogent reasosn why this problem should be addressed before it is too late.  In a society that is fearful to address anything controversial, Hanson is a refreshing voice of reason.  His arguments will no doubt be frightening to ultra-liberals, but those who read him carefuly will see that he attacks both Left and Right in this country.  Hanson is more middle of the road than many Americans today can admit.  He speaks for many who have been cowed by a heavy-handed media, and by demogogues who use race is a means for power.  For those seeking a refreshing voice of clarity, with a strong grasp of history, Victor Hanson Davis has finally arrived!	2003-07-11
US	50552445	R2ANYSH5S0NPOW	030680560X	463301318	George Washington's Generals and Opponents: Their Exploits and Leadership	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Key Players of the Revolutionary War	This excellent book provides compendium biographies for all the major commanding generals of both sides during the American Revolution.  The average length of each bio is roughly 10-30 pages, which provides enough general detail for each personality.  No book has put under one cover all the key military players of the Revolution.  In addition to all the standards like Washington and Lafayette, the reader also gets many lesser known American generals, as well as the main British personalities like Howe and Clinton.  The American Revolution was not a war that produced any brilliant generals on either side. Reading these various bios will show that military brilliance was not really displayed in the Revolution by either side.  Washington was an inpired leader of men, but a poor tactican.  Sir William Howe a good tactician, but a conservetive strategist. Readers may be surprised to learn how imcompetent many American generals were, and how basically competent most of the British were.  This was a war about the hearts and minds of the American people, and this was a problem the British never really understood.  Leadership displyaed by both sides was often haphazzard, and this book should provide ample evidence of that.  There is a lot of duplication of events because many of the generals were involved in the same events, but each bio is complete in itself and should provide interesting reading on the major commanders involved on both sides during the American Revolution.	2003-07-07
US	50552445	RDHGSEDKYVC0B	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Every Moslem Should Read This Book!	This slender volume provides a concise history of how the East and West have developed differently.  While once far ahead of the West, Islam over time became complacent and lethargic, and slowly lost its lead over the emerging Occident.  The change was gradual.  The Scientific and Cultural developments of the Renissiance certainly marked the beginning of the West's ascendancy.  The many bloody religious wars of the 16th-17th centuries gradually taught Western Civilization that in order to thrive it must seperate church from state.  This is something that never occured in Islam, and this is one of the main points Mr.Lewis makes here.  Islam has always been the source of all government and law in moslem states.  This has become the main impediment for the Middle East's growth today.  Lewis also points out that Islam's backward treatment of women is another major problem.  Islam has gone seriously wrong in holding back the educational development of half its people.  No wonder Arab children grow up largely ignorant today because their mothers are ignorant as well.  The Moslem state sees no reason why women should be educated, and so the bitter cycle goes on generation after generation.  Perhaps the most significant point made in this book is that the Middle East today must decide which path it will take.  The choice is clear:  Islamic extremism and retension of the past, which will continue to identify Islam with fanaticism and terrorism, or a progressive step forward like the modern state of Turkey has done.  Until the Middle East learns to develope a secular outlook, and seperate church from state, the region will likely continue to spiral out of control.  Already it is decades behind the rest of the world in nearly all areas.  All moslems should read this book and look seriously at themselves and how they might begin to undertake change.	2003-07-01
US	50552445	RBJPSYYJGQLOF	0304352896	51986070	History of Warfare: Warfare in the Seventeenth Century	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Nice Overview of 17th Century Warfare	This lavishly illustrated book provides a nice overview of the complex series of wars that comprised the 17th Century.  The book briefly covers the 30 Years War, the English Civil Wars, and the wars of mid-century, as well as the wars of Louis XIV.  There is even a chapter that discusses the wars outside europe.  The pictures and maps are really what make this book nice.  The text is concise and to the point.  The only drawback here might be the often cursory attention paid to some topics.  To cover an entire century of complex warfare in one slender volume is bound to leave many gaps.  Still, the reader will find a nice introuction to this period, and can use this book as a stepping stone to move on elsewhere in readings.	2003-07-01
US	50552445	R15E78ZN5MYI47	0312471238	837608443	The Last Popular Rebellion: The Western Rising of 1685	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Monmouth and Segemoor, 1685	The Monmouth rebellion of 1685 has a curious place in English history.  The Duke of Monmouth, bastard son of King Charles II, lead a confused life of early privation and then royal favor. One could consider him a classic example of late Boroque dysfunctional child and adult! His status as heir to the crown was always an open ended question, an issue further complicated by Charles II's constant changing moods on the matter.  Over time Monmouth grew in expereince and matured as something of a soldier, fighting in the confused wars of the 1670s in the Low Countries in the service of the French against the Dutch.  His popularity grew in direct contrast to his rival and relation, James II.  When Charles died in 1685, James ascended to the English crown.  Monmouth, exiled in the low countries after losing favor with his late father was easily enough enticed by disparate elements to attmept a rebellion against the new king.  Religion was an importnat factor here as Monmouth was noted for his staunch Protestanism, just as James was an ardent Catholic.<br />The Monmouth rebellion got off to a quick and bumpy start in the marshlands of Sommerset where various discontented elements of local society were willing to support the Protestant Duke.  This support proved fleeting however, as the greater gentry never came out to support him.  With time running out, James II managed to put together an effective response.  Monmouth was counting on the Royal army diserting the king.  There was some reason to be hopeful in this regard, as Monmouth had served as Capitan-General of the Royal army until recently.  James was fortunate to have staunch support by such men as John Churchill, Ogolthorpe and Percy Kirke.<br />With popular support never reaching beyond 5,000 or so in Sommerset and adjoining counties, Monmouth knew that he must win quickly if at all.  He gambled on surprising the Royal army at Sedgemoor with a night attack.  Unfortunately Monmouth's men were not up to to the task of mounting an effective night assault, and despite the Duke's solid plan, the attack fell apart in the morning light.  Sedgemoor became a late 17th century firefight with matchlock muskets popping away ineffectively at each other.  The superior discipline of the Royal army under the firm hand of Churchill would ensure defeat of the rebels when the final push of pike took place later in the morning.  The Royalist cavalry would further rout and destroy the rebels as they fled the field.  The disparity in casuclaties tells the sad story.  Nearly 1,300 rebels for less than 300 King's men.  Monmouth would see his own end at the Tower in London where exicution awaited.  Yet, Segdemoor might have been Monmouth's victory if circumstances and luck had turned a little differently for him.<br />This book combines social, biographical and military history.  Parts are a bit dry at times, but the portrayal of Monmouth's character and the description of the 1685 rebellion are certainly worthwhile.  This late 17th century battle holds fascination as a transitional moment in warfare as the matchlock and pike eventually gave way to the plug-bayonet and flintlock musket.  Those interested in the period should find this book interesting.of mounting an effective night assault, and despite the Duke's solid plan, the attack fell apart in the morning light.  Sedgemoor became a late 17th century firefight with matchlock muskets popping away ineffectively at each other.  The superior discipline of the Royal army under the firm hand of Churchill would ensure defeat of the rebels when the final push of pike took place later in the morning.  The Royalist cavalry would further rout and destroy the rebels as they fled the field.   The disparity in casuclaties tells the sad story.  Nearly 1,300 rebels for less than 300 King's men.  Monmouth would see his own end at the Tower in London where exicution awaited.  Yet, Segdemoor might have been Monmouth's victory if circumstances and luck had turned a little differently for him.<br />This book combines social, biographical and military history.  Parts are a bit dry at times, but the portrayal of Monmouth's character and the description of the 1685 rebellion are certainly worthwhile.  This late 17th century battle holds fascination as a transitional moment in warfare as the matchlock and pike eventually gave way to the plug-bayonet and flintlock musket.  Those interested in the period should find this book interesting.	2003-06-07
US	50552445	R1BTICMRKVJ0O9	1400031133	782925714	An Autumn of War: What America Learned from September 11 and the War on Terrorism	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Still Timely After Recent Events	Even though these essays appeared over a year ago their logic and common sense still are timely. Victor Davis Hanson has a knack for combining the knowledge of the past with the present. Hanson's deep interest and love of the ancients comes through here as the author wrestles with the US response toward terrorism and rogue states that harbor them. The author of \\"Soul of Battle\\" and many other books dealing with the Occidental style of war, Hanson has a tendency to hammer the same points home over and over, but he does it with style and wit. Hanson is of the belief that armies of democratic states are invincible. He made this point very clearly in the previous mentioned book above. Still, one might add that such armies are formidable if well lead. History is full of examples where poorly led democratic armies failed badly. For the United States such examples would be the War of 1812 and Vietnam. If well led and given a clear and direct purpose armies of democratic states can prove quite formidable indeed. Hanson makes much of this case here within these essays. His analysis stands up even more so with recent events in Iraq, even though these were written a year before the invasion. Hanson would no doubt like to compare Iraq's recent fall to that of the Spartans, the Confederacy and Nazi Germany, each, according to his earlier thesis were defeated totally by rampaging armies of free, democratic states. While a bit broad at times, Hanson's no-nonesense style certainly provokes thought, and will most certainly provoke advocates of the Liberal Left toward which most of his broadsides are directed in this country. A wothwhile book, which is inspiring, timely and perhaps a bit controversial depending on your political views.  Hanson's knowledge of history and its comparisons to the present are fascinating and alone worth pondering whether you believe in his views or not.  This book is basically a call to arms for the US, and some may not agree with the message here, but it is a powerful one nonetheless.t is a powerful one nonetheless.	2003-06-03
US	50552445	R1CMNXHC60OKBK	0674082494	735119743	British Military Spectacle: From the Napoleonic Wars through the Crimea	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Thesis	This slightly ponderous book presents a number of interesting questions.  The main point it tries to make is that the military has often been used as a symbol to both inspire and control the public in Great Britain.  The author painstakingly explains how the British army attempted to mould its soldiers into a certain disciplined caste that would prove relilable in all circumstances.  While other countries have allowed their military to become all pervasive and dominant, in Britain the army always maintained a close loyalty to the Crown.  The power of the Crown was tempered by Parliament, which meant that the army would never assume a dominant position in British affairs.<br />That the military was useful as a means to control in social discontent in the early 19th century cannot be denied however.  Before there was a reliable Police Force, the army was instrumental in maintaining the public order.  This in turn ensured that the power of the elite was not threatened.  The army was also an inspiration to many British thinkers and industrialists of the period, who looked upon its regimentation as an example to be followed in civilian affairs.  Even fashion owes much of its influence to the army in this period.  The ever popular term \\"Dressing to the Nines\\" was coined from the sharpe appearence of the 90th Foot.  While this book did address many interesting points concerning the relationship between the military and civilian life in Britain, at times the material seemed a bit redundant.<br />There were also some gaps.  More emphasis should have been placed on the development and use of military bands, their music, as well as their ceremonial use.  The employment of bands went very far to popularize the view of the military to many and should have been discussed at greater length.  Pomp and Ceremony remains an important element in British society today, and continues to showcase the military, despite many evident cut-backs.  The development of many of the great Tattoos, Military Music Spectacles etc., were instrumental in presenting a favorable impression toward the British public.  While many of these events would be developed in a later period, they surely had their start in the time covered in this book.  Failure to mention this influence in more detail I think is the chief failing in an otherwise worthwhile book.os, Military Music Spectacles etc., were instrumental in presenting a favorable impression toward the British public.  While many of these events would be developed in a later period, they surely had their start in the time covered in this book.  Failure to mention this influence in more detail I think is the chief failing in an otherwise worthwhile book.	2003-04-12
US	50552445	R3OHFS8BMREJLF	0865431671	588336857	A Glorious Age in Africa: The Story of 3 Great African Empires (Awp Young Readers Series)	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Concise History of Early African Kingdoms	This slender volume provides a good basic account of the three primary kingdoms of ancient Africa.  We have heard much in recent years from Afro-centric revisionist historians about the alleged wonder of ancient Africa.  This book puts some of those myths into perspective.  While obviously intended for a young reading audience, this book has some useful information.  The maps and pictures have an ameturish quality to them, but will doubtless appeal to high school students and less sophisticated readers.  The text is simple and a bit over-stated at times.<br />The three African kingdoms discussed here were certainly impressive for their time and place, but seem to have left little lasting influence. They were primarily trading empires, with some literature (Islamic Koranic writing and study) some archectecture and medicine.  Music, art and higher forms of literature that would be found in Europe in the Renissiance appear to be non-existent. It is interesting to note that all three Kingdoms were heavily influenced by Islam, a non-indigeneous religion.  Thus it seems Africa's greatest kingdoms were due more to the influence of Islam than anything else.  Much about these kingdoms remains obscure and will likely remain so, thus providing numerous revisionist historians the means to make all sorts of outrageous statements.  The perfect atmosphere for invention and fabrication.  Still, this book provides a clearer look at the early history of Africa  more so than recent ethno-centric studies like those compiled by the dubious Louis Gates.  Young and older readers alike can certainly find some merit in this work	2003-04-04
US	50552445	RJ2QO4CG013LP	0393052117	768094317	Redcoat: The British Soldier in the Age of Horse and Musket	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Balanced and Informative	I like how this book points out in the beginning how in recent cinema the British redcoat has been derided by politically correct gibberish movies.  This book shows how wrong Hollywood has been with its simplistic views on history. This superlative work provides more social history than true battle accounts.  In this respect I am reminded of Byron Farwell's books on the British and Indian armies in the 19th century.  These works were more social military history as well, just as Richard Holmes book is here.  There is nothing wrong with this approach.  Unless you prefer just pure military history instead.<br />Holmes deals with the earlier period of Horse and Musket, 1750s to 1850s roughly, and provides much needed analysis in that era.  The reader will find a lot of fascinating information on the organization of the British army by various branches and departments.  You can find out the number of regiments in the army, how they were broken down into different types, etc.  He does this for infantry, cavalry and artillery.  Readers will find this particularly useful because this information is often referred to eslewhere, but not elaborated on in other works.  Here you will learn the anatomy of the British army.  The book is filled with all sorts of fascinating details.  The famed 95th Rifles for instance were formed from drafts from the militia and 12 line regiments.<br />Holmes uses extensive memoirs and first-hand accounts to illustrate his points.  Many of these works have been cited elsewhere, but their inclusion here provides additional clarification. Some of the works are well known and are in print again, but their use here is useful.  Some readers may become confused because Holmes tends to jump around from one period to another in order to make his point.  Those not well versed in British military history of the period may find it difficult to keep up at times.  Notwithstanding this minor point this is still a tremendously informative book.  I personally found much that was new to me even though I have studied this topic for many years. It also clarified many other points that I was not sure on from readings elsewhere. This book should be read by all future movie producers so that they can get it right when it comes to portraying the redcoat on film. Doubtless they will chose to ignore it.  Those interested in the topic and period can't go wrong with this excellent work.  You will want to have this in your library for constant use.ound much that was new to me even though I have studied this topic for many years. It also clarified many other points that I was not sure on from readings elsewhere. This book should be read by all future movie producers so that they can get it right when it comes to portraying the redcoat on film. Doubtless they will chose to ignore it.  Those interested in the topic and period can't go wrong with this excellent work.  You will want to have this in your library for constant use.	2003-03-14
US	50552445	R1VCI098LTEXDY	0452261120	913821334	Royal Flash (Flashman)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Flashy Does 1848 Europe	This second volume in the ever growing Flashman chronicles provides an amusing look at Germany in 1848.  Here Flashman finds himself involved with some well known personalities of the time.  The Irish dancer turned Spanish strumpet, Lola Montez was the real life fantasy of King Ludwig I of Bavaria who bankrupted his kingdom to satisfy her.  The 1848 Revolution in Bavaria was simply to get rid of her as opposed to ovethrowing the Bavarian monarchy.  Flashy's encounter with Bismarck is both amusing and informative. The reader will find out some of the complexities involved with German politics in this period of pre-unification.  The Schweilsig-Holstein question was one of the essential political battles of the time in Germany. Whether Bismarck would have gone to such lengths to subvert it in his favor is hard to say, but at least it is pleasauble.  G M Fraser certainly puts a lot of research into his Flashman romps which provide for a character being his usual ... self.  Flashy is meant to portray the whole hyprocracy of the Victorian era and the reader should concur that he does so most admirably!  The endless escapes are a bit silly at times, but the writing and and solid pace are what hold these Flashman fantasies together.  Those wanting a good historical farce should enjoy it.  If nothing else it should provide some worthwhile escapism.<br />PS - The movie made in the late 1960s provides an amusing farce, but unfortunately is out of print and likely to remain so.	2003-03-12
US	50552445	R3KBGQI7IBO1QZ	0452261120	913821334	Royal Flash (Flashman)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flashy Does 1848 Europe	This second volume in the ever growing Flashman chronicles provides an amusing look at Germany in 1848.  Here Flashman finds himself involved with some well known personalities of the time.  The Irish dancer turned Spanish strumpet, Lola Montez was the real life fantasy of King Ludwig I of Bavaria who bankrupted his kingdom to satisfy her.  The 1848 Revolution in Bavaria was simply to get rid of her as opposed to ovethrowing the Bavarian monarchy.  Flashy's encounter with Bismarck is both amusing and informative. The reader will find out some of the complexities involved with German politics in this period of pre-unification.  The Schweilsig-Holstein question was one of the essential political battles of the time in Germany. Whether Bismarck would have gone to such lengths to subvert it in his favor is hard to say, but at least it is pleasauble.  G M Fraser certainly puts a lot of research into his Flashman romps which provide for a character being his usual whoring self.  Flashy is meant to portray the whole hyprocracy of the Victorian era and the reader should concur that he does so most admirably!  The endless escapes are a bit silly at times, but the writing and and solid pace are what hold these Flashman fantasies together.  Those wanting a good historical farce should enjoy it.  If nothing else it should provide some worthwhile escapism.	2003-03-12
US	50552445	R18WJPTRL6OVOC	055311154X	245663197	A Regimental Affair: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Hervey Rides On .... Slowly	Mallinson continues the Hervey series with our hero having returned from derring-do in India.  He must settle into dull regimental life with the 6th Light Dragoons who have changed much since he last served with them.  Mallinson manages to make peace time service in England interesting in what would normally be dull fare.  The style of the writting at times is a little like Jane Austen writing historical fiction! Mallinson writes very formally, almost stiff at times, but he does convery a period feel for his characters more than some authors attempt to do.  His descriptions of regimental life and the various personalities that exist in a cavalry regiment are most vivid.  No doubt much of this is taken from his own expereinces in the modern British army where regimental life has not changed all that much over the years.  This stiff, rather paternal system comes across clearly in this story.  At times a bit tedious the book rewards the reader who persists.  There are interesting descriptions of post Waterloo England where much discontent existed with lay-offs and army reductions.  Issues of civic disorder in an era where local Police had yet to be fully developed provides for imformative reading.  The reader can see how difficult it was for the army to control civil matters.  Hervey's imaginative responses to different situations makes us admire our intelligent hero, and the constant friction he has with his imcompetent Lieut-col. gradully builds suspense throughout the novel.<br />Hervey's relationship with his wife is warm and loving, and there is much thoughtful character development here.  When the regiment is transferred to Canada relief comes from dealing with civil disorder in England, but new friction soon developes with tragic consequences for Hervey and his lovely wife.  All of this is well done, if a bit slow at times.  Mallinson does not write in the rapid-fire fashion of some authors of historical fiction, and this may put off some readers.  Where the series is to go now is hard to say, but I shall look forward to Hervey's continued adventures.<br />Note: The helmit pictured on the cover of this book appears to be more of a Heavy Dragoon helmit as opposed to what the Light Dragoons wore in this period.eries is to go now is hard to say, but I shall look forward to Hervey's continued adventures.  <br />Note: The helmit pictured on the cover of this book appears to be more of a Heavy Dragoon helmit as opposed to what the Light Dragoons wore in this period.	2003-02-19
US	50552445	R2TYDRLBZWFBGC	0749919922	629351469	Inside the Foreign Legion: The Sensational Story of the World's Toughest Army	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Up To Date History of the Legion	This book presents a nice synopsis of the Legion's history.  While a bit short on the Legion's history for the first 100 years, the book provides more details on recent events.  Readers may find that this work glosses over the great events of the Legion's early history like Camerone, and the battles in the Crimea and Italy, but the reader will find these aspects covered in other books on this subject.  The monumental history by Douglas Porch tended to gloss over these topics as well, and was short on current history.<br />Parker's book takes the Legion from the fall of Algeria up to the present.  Forced to become France's emergency intervention force in many of its former colonies, the Legion proves its adaptability and versatile nature. The no-nonsense manner of the Legion often does not endear it to many, but in places like Beruit it was the US Marines who got truck bombed, not the Legion! The combat experience of the Legion proves itself again and again.  In the Gulf War the Legion was conducting combat patrols into Iraq long before the highly publisized American in-roads were made.  Parker's book makes for fine reading and moves at a fast pace.  Unlike Porch who allows himself to get bogged down with endless digressions about Legion morale, desertion etc., this book really lets you know what it's like to be a recruit in the Legion. You get eyewhitness accounts of in your face drill sargeants hammering away at new comers. The many first-hand accounts of recent veterans adds color and interest to the narrative.  Parker writes in a lively style, but he does not get carried away as Hugh McLeave does in his earlier book on the Legion.  The main strength of this book is on the more recent history of the Legion.  Those wanting a more romantized account should turn to Hugh McLeave's \\"The Damned Die Hard\\" or Douglas Porch's \\"Complete History of the French Foreign Legion\\" if they seek an academic work.  Either way, Parker's book should prove useful to augment both works and serves as an addenda for them.  Legion fans should grab it!and serves as an addenda for them.  Legion fans should grab it!	2003-01-02
US	50552445	R39B5MUBXB0UPI	0870527851	789309777	Anatomy of Victory: Battle Tactics, 1689-1763	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Definitive Study of 17th &amp; 18th Century Warfare	Not many books on military history dare to cover such topics as troop deployment and formations.  Most works on warfare from these periods tend to assume that the reader would not be interested in such topics.  Mostly what we tend to read are  strategic overviews, strategy and helpful hints on how to win battles from the military top 100 generals.  But how many books really tell us what was techically involved in depolying regiments on to battlefield.  Not many.  But this is one of them.<br />Mr. Nosworthy has performed a valuable service in helping to re-define our understanding of 17th and 18th Century warfare.  The book covers the period from 1685-1763, showing us the important military technological innovations that would change war forever.  Most noteably these were the introduction of the socket bayonet and the flintlock musket.  While seemingly minor events by today's standards, these weapons would have far reaching influence on the battlefields of Europe and beyond.  Their use forced a modernization of field tactics which would have profound impact on the battlefield.  Any serious student of the period who wants to learn the nuts and bolts of how Marlborough and Frederick the Great employed their armies successfully needs to read this book.  There are also interesting chapters about the tactical experiments the French army was conducting in this period which was destined to influence later Napoleanic warfare.  Although out of print at the moment, keep your eyes on when this title might get re-printed.  It's a classic of its kind and deserves to be in every serious collection on warfare.  Try and and get a copy from any second hand source or just read it in the library!	2002-12-06
US	50552445	RORXI7QQ4I1I8	0060923083	517687688	The French Foreign Legion: Complete History of The Legendary Fighting Force	Books	4	30	31	N	Y	Near Complete History of the Legion	This book contains a lot of impressive research on the history and combat performance of the Legion.  Unlike other books on this subject Mr. Porch has decided to take an objective, analylitical approach toward his study of the Legion.  This may put off some readers because Porch's work is long, and does not contain a lot of exciting passages.  This is a serious study of the Legion's origins, history, and combat performance.  Those who stick with this long read will find it rewarding, but also time consuming!<br />There is lots of fascinating information here buried between the sometimes excessive analysis.  A lot of focus is placed on Legion morale, combat effectiveness, and desertion.  Porch spends large portions of time disecting these topics at length throughout the book to try to determine the real efficiency of the Legion and to seperate the myth from the reality.  His conclusions are that the Legion performed best when used in colonial operations.  It was not suited for European conflicts and World Wars, even though it did perform well in them.  The often delicate pyschological make-up of the average Legionaire meant that he was not suited to perform certain tasks.  The Legion prides itself on being a corps d'elite of the French army, even though the Legion itself often disdains that asscoiation.  The love-hate relationship between France and her Legion is well illustrated in this book.  Indeed, this was the very reason why it was formed in 1831 to safely deposit troublesom foreign elements of society.  The Legion seeing this, has responded by imposing an insular discipline over the years which either consumes the recruit, or destroys him in the process!<br />For the length of this book, Porch could spend somewhat more time describing the Legion's battles and campaigns.  The famed battle at Camerone in Mexico, now so much apart of Legion lore, gets scarsely a few pages, while the Dohomey and Madacascar campaigns receive lengthy treatments.  The coverage of topics is sometimes uneven.  One of the best early chapters is on the Carlist Wars of Spain in 1838 and how the Legion was loaned out to serve Queen Isabel in what was to become a long and thankless campaign.  Then strangely, both the  Crimean War and the Italian War of 1859 get just a small chapter together.  The constant references to Legion performance and desertion are a bit redundant after a while.  Still, there is much that is worthwhile here.  The inter-war years chapter when General Rollet attempts to create the traditions of the Legion during the difficult Rif War of the 1920s provides a lot of interesting debate on the popular image we have seen of the Legion in movies and books.<br />Like most Legion histories this one ends after the loss of Algeria in 1961 and provides only a brief look at the attempted challenege to de Gaulle's policy there.  There is no chapter on the Legion today which would really round off this book and help make it the deffinitive history which it purports itself to be.<br />Overall I found this book to be well researched, somewhat dry at times, filled with interesting information and analysis.  No Legion buff should be without it as it discusses many aspects of the corp's history not often covered.  The book probably could have been made shorter and covered effectively just as much material.  There is a good collection of pictures which does enhance the work, and the few maps provided are helpful, if sparringly used. You won't find a lot of Legion lore and heros here, in fact many famous names mentioned elsewhere are deliberately ignored here because the author wishes to have a more detached approach toward this subject. Still, this book will reward the Legion grognard who fights his way through it!topics is sometimes uneven.  One of the best early chapters is on the Carlist Wars of Spain in 1838 and how the Legion was loaned out to serve Queen Isabel in what was to become a long and thankless campaign.  Then strangely, both the  Crimean War and the Italian War of 1859 get just a small chapter together.  The constant references to Legion performance and desertion are a bit redundant after a while.  Still, there is much that is worthwhile here.  The inter-war years chapter when General Rollet attempts to create the traditions of the Legion during the difficult Rif War of the 1920s provides a lot of interesting debate on the popular image we have seen of the Legion in movies and books.  <br />Like most Legion histories this one ends after the loss of Algeria in 1961 and provides only a brief look at the attempted challenege to de Gaulle's policy there.  There is no chapter on the Legion today which would really round off this book and help make it the deffinitive history which it purports itself to be.  <br />Overall I found this book to be well researched, somewhat dry at times, filled with interesting information and analysis.  No Legion buff should be without it as it discusses many aspects of the corp's history not often covered.  The book probably could have been made shorter and covered effectively just as much material.  There is a good collection of pictures which does enhance the work, and the few maps provided are helpful, if sparringly used. You won't find a lot of Legion lore and heros here, in fact many famous names mentioned elsewhere are deliberately ignored here because the author wishes to have a more detached approach toward this subject. Still, this book will reward the Legion grognard who fights his way through it!	2002-12-04
US	50552445	R3DWQSNO7SBR4Z	0935526978	45905601	Seven Men of Gascony (Classics of Military Fiction)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Sweeping Saga of the Grande Armee	Despite what others have said about this book I have always found it worthwhile.  I recently re-read it after many years and still found it to be a sweeping saga of the Napoleanic wars.  Perhaps readers are too taken with the more sleek, action packed yarns of today to allow themselves to get into Delderfield's world of the Napoleanic wars.  Yes the book starts off a bit slow, and yes its not as action packed as some other historical fiction on the same period. But Delderfield's strength lies in his story-telling, and this book gradually enfolds you into the epic of what was the campaigns of Napolean.  After a while you find yourself swept up into the episodic writing of this story which takes its seven Voltiguers on a tour-de-force of Napoelean's battles.  The author has a deep love for the period which is reflected in his style of writing.  Delderfield is a writer of the old school.  His story and characters slowly grow on you if you allow time for it to do so.  While I agree with one reader that it would have been nice if some description of the kind of skirmish tactics the French Voltigeurs employed on the battlefield were provided, I didn't find that it detracts from the story that much.  This book was written many years ago before the plethora of military historical fiction was available.  I'am sure this book served as inspiration for many of the Sharpe novels et al that we see today.  C.H. Forester and R.F Delderfield were the fathers of Napoleanic military historical fiction.  These works stand up well over time, and since there are few books in English on the French perspective out there this makes &quot;Seven Men&quot; even more important.  Give this book time and allow it to enfold you into its sweeping, epic events that were the horror and grandeur of the<br />wars of Napolean.	2002-11-27
US	50552445	R1BFVKBVKJGJXJ	0004710258	555122852	The Scottish Regiments	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Concise History of Scottish Regiments	This updated publication presents a concise history of the current Scottish regiments. The Highland and Lowland regiments, reknowned throughout history for their martial prowess, each have complex and lengthy histories. The author tries gallently to cover all of this in a rapid fashion, but can only be touched upon here. Naturally one has to expect that details of campaigns can only be briefly mentioned. The book is nicely illustrated depicting the uniforms of the various corps over the years.<br />All the famous names are here, including the Black Watch, Argylls, Royal Scots Greys, Royal Scots, KOSBs and Scots Guards. By including the 2nd Dragoons and SGs the book covers regiments of the Guards and what now is the Royal Armored corps as well as the Scottish Divison which contains what remains of the original Scottish regiments that were raised in the 18th century. The most pertinent chapter deals with the recent creation of the Highlanders (Seaforths, Camerons & Gordons) created in 1994 upon the amalgamation of the Queens Own Highlanders and the Gordon Highlanders. This newest creation of the British army contains some of the most famous Highland corps that were raised in the latter half of the 18th century.  The book also includes disbanded regiments like the Cameronians (Scottish Rifles) who ceased to exist in 1968 but who nonetheless contributed a vital history to the Scottish fighting man.<br />The book makes itself current by including this important information and provids a pretty up to date perspective. An added bonus is various regimental info. which is given including number of VCs won by each regiment, as well listing regimental and company march tunes for the interest of the reader. Unless further reductions are planned by the Ministry of Defence (MOD)in the near future, this book should stand for now as the most current concise history of the Scottish regiments available. Lets hope there are no more reductions for now as the current international situation may require the use of these fine old regiments, and the government that disbanded them before may regret that choice in the near future.<br /><br />Addenda:  Unfortunately since  I  did  this  review  many  years  ago  additional  reductions  and  changes  have  occurred.  In  2006  all  the  remaining  Scottish  regiments  were  combined  into  battalions within  the  Royal  Regiment  of  Scotland.  In  addition  the  Royal  Scots  and  KOSBs  were  combined  into  the  Royal Scots  Borderers  as  1SCOTS.  The  RHF  are  2SCOTS,  the  BW  are  3SCOTS,  the  Highlanders  are  4Scots  and  the  ASH  were  5SCOTS  but  have  since  been  reduced  to  an  incremental  company which still  retains  their  historic  name  but  no longer has a pipe  band.  The  remaining  four  Scottish  battalions  within  The  RR  of  S each  retain  for  now  their  historic  names  and cerermonial  dress  although  all  have  been  forced  to  wear  the  Black  Watch  or  government  tartan and  have  lost  clan  association  in  their old  regimental  tartans.  While  the  remaining  battalions  appear  safe  for  the  moment  traditions  are  gradually fading  as  each  assume  a  more  homogeneous part  of  the  whole.  Army  2020  will  likely  see  additional  changes  for  the  entire  British  army  and  Scottish  battalions  in  particular.equire the use of these fine old regiments, and the government that disbanded them before may regret that choice in the near future.  Addenda:  Unfortunately since  I  did  this  review  many  years  ago  additional  reductions  and  changes  have  occurred.  In  2006  all  the  remaining  Scottish  regiments  were  combined  into  battalions within  the  Royal  Regiment  of  Scotland.  In  addition  the  Royal  Scots  and  KOSBs  were  combined  into  the  Royal Scots  Borderers  as  1SCOTS.  The  RHF  are  2SCOTS,  the  BW  are  3SCOTS,  the  Highlanders  are  4Scots  and  the  ASH  were  5SCOTS  but  have  since  been  reduced  to  an  incremental  company which still  retains  their  historic  name  but  no longer has a pipe  band.  The  remaining  four  Scottish  battalions  within  The  RR  of  S each  retain  for  now  their  historic  names  and cerermonial  dress  although  all  have  been  forced  to  wear  the  Black  Watch  or  government  tartan and  have  lost  clan  association  in  their old  regimental  tartans.  While  the  remaining  battalions  appear  safe  for  the  moment  traditions  are  gradually fading  as  each  assume  a  more  homogeneous part  of  the  whole.  Army  2020  will  likely  see  additional  changes  for  the  entire  British  army  and  Scottish  battalions  in  particular.	2002-10-25
US	50552445	R1IRWPYIDT6FOH	0233965602	47927033	The French Foreign Legion	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Legion Intro	This brief book provides a good general history of the Legion from 1831 to the fall of Algeria.  The main assets of this work are its good pictures and maps which help to illustrate the story of the Legion and its campaigns around the world.  There is a nice introductory chapter which discusses the kinds of men who have always joined the Legion, and the popular images we have seen of it in fiction and cinema.  The epilogue shows what has happened to the Legion since the fall of Algeria. The main chapters are a bit brief, but they do convey a general background.  No longer a spear-head for French colonialism, the Legion faces a challenging future.  Yet, the essence of what makes a Legionaire, and the motivation for why he joins remains largely unchanged for over 170 years.  For those wanting a good introduction to this fascinating topic this is a good book to start with.	2002-10-24
US	50552445	R3UXR3LZ5RPU74	0553299603	643547388	Damned Die Hard, The	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Le Boudin Forever!	This is a fine book chronicling the history of the Legion from its beginnings in 1831 to the present.  The author writes in a popular, readable style which should make it approachable to the average reader.  The book moves quickly through the history of the Legion giving special emphasis to some of the amazing characters who have served with it over the years.  Some famous people have come and gone, many becoming strangely devoted to it one way or another.  Many of France's 19th century generals got their start in the Legion, including Achilles Bazaine, MacMahon, Saint Arnaud, etc.  Some would become better lengends than others.<br />This book would greatly be enhanced with some maps showing where the Legion campaiged around the world.  without these visual aids it becomes difficult to keep track of the numerous locales mentioned.  The book takes the history of the Legion up to only the mid-1950s.  The story ends in the choatic in-fighting of Algeria where the political situation almost gets out of control for France.  The author ends the story here without giving us a post-Algeria portrait of the Legion today.<br />Despite these faults, the colorful writing of this book and the obvious devotion of the author for his subject often compensates.  It is written to draw the reader into the personalities and lore of the Legion.  You can almost hear the magnificent Legion band playing &quot;Le Boudin&quot; as you read it!  If like me your interest in the Legion was sparked by books like Beau Geste, than this work should satisfy some of your curosity.	2002-10-22
US	50552445	R35DETU4N600W9	0899681352	544973196	Beau Geste	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Classic Foreign Legion Novel	After all these years this book is still a classic of its kind. A bit slow in the beginning, Wren's writting rewards persistence as the characters begin to grow on the reader. The novel really starts to pick up somewhere after page 100 when John leaves the whodonnit atmosphere of Brandan Abbas and johns the Legion after his brothers. The reader will find a how-to manual here in how to join the Legion and what to expect with training. No doubt this is auto-biographical in nature from Wren's own expereinces with the Legion. He paints a somewhat mixed picture of the kinds of people one must serve with and it seems that one is devoted more to the Ideal of the Legion as opposed to its rather harsh reality. Those who have seen 1939 movie will find most of the books plot is sustained. There are a few minor differences. In the book the evil sarjeant is named Lajeaune as opposed to Markov in the movie. I suppose the latter name sounds more evil! There are a couple of other subtle changes like this. Also, at the end of the book the movie does not show the extent that John and Digby wandered for years in the desert with their two American friends in Arab mufti. In the battle scenes at the fort the book has the Arabs charging on foot as opposed to charging the walls on horseback as is shown in the movie. The book describes the fort's walls as lower which would explain some rationale for this, but the movie just makes it look rather foolish. The book gets better as you go along, so keep at it and you will be rewarded.	2002-10-11
US	50552445	R1EQYLBEOD8D1G	0345241223	647247916	The General Danced at Dawn	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Farewell to the Gordons	These wonderful stories, written by Fraser when he was an officer in the Gordon Highlanders at the end of the Second World War are priceless. There is much sardonic humor and wit here. The characters come and go throughout the book. Each chapter is a self contained story in itself almost. By far the one character who appears most often is the unhygenic pvt. McAuslan. He seems to do for the Scots what some of the WW2 comic characters like Sad Sack did for the GI's. The author, who speaks through the voice of his nom-de-guerre relates many amusing episodes. Some are a little silly at times, and the constant unwashed antics of \\"Peking Man\\" McAuslan gets a bit tiring, but this does not take away from the quality or humor of the work.<br />I like best when Fraser talks about the regimental history and lore of the Gordons when he's taking a break from McAuslan. There are some truly wonderful characters and events related here, all factual enough and displaying the honors and traditions which existed in old Highland regiments like the Gordons. Fraser is at his best when he talks of these traditions and one can see that he relished his hectic years with this famous Highland regiment.<br />The downsizing of the British Empire and the changes this would wrought in the army as well as the world are the backdrop against which these stories are told. This is not a book about war, but about a time when national service was apart of nearly everyone's life. Some of Fraser's opinions may not be considered PC for today, but this in my opinion adds to the charm of these stories. The war and its aftermath left lasting impressions on those who took part. The Gordon Highlanders are sadly no more, having been downsized in 1994.  In this book you will find many funny and amusing tales which made them the fine regiment they once were.  Those who have followed Fraser in his Flashman series will find a different style here, but equally entertaining in its own right. The McAuslan stories form part of a number of works that were written about the post war years in Britain.  \\"Tunes of Glory\\" is another more serious example by Kenneth Kennaway.<br />The McAuslan stories have been recently gathered together into a triology which is not available from Amazon.com in the States.  The book can be ordered from Amazon.com.co.uk and is well worth the extra pennies to do so.<br />Here's to the Gordons!  Long may their memory live!m part of a number of works that were written about the post war years in Britain.  \\"Tunes of Glory\\" is another more serious example by Kenneth Kennaway.  <br />The McAuslan stories have been recently gathered together into a triology which is not available from Amazon.com in the States.  The book can be ordered from Amazon.com.co.uk and is well worth the extra pennies to do so.  <BR>Here's to the Gordons!  Long may their memory live!	2002-09-19
US	50552445	R2WEOUSP4IZSI	0393308022	75392719	Armies of the Raj: From the Great Indian Mutiny to Independence, 1858-1947	Books	5	11	19	N	N	Long Live the old Raj!	This is an elegant and informative book on the old Indian army and the Raj in India. Like the author's previous works on the British Victorian army of the period and its social and military characteristics this book covers some of the same ground, but expands greatly on the history of the Raj's army.<br />Spanning the post Mutiny years from 1857 until the choatic formation of India in 1947, the author presents many fascinating details about army life in India. What becomes apparent is how overall beneficial the British Raj was to India's social development and growth. A hopeless patch-work of petty Mogul Princes and backward religions before the establishment of the Raj in the 18th century, the British were able to transform this mass into something resembling a wokable nation. What is apparent also is that despite their arrogance, British officers really made the Indian army work. Without them the Seapoy was never really as effective.<br />The Indian army was basically intended for service within the Empire. When employed in conventional warfare outside of India in the First and Second World Wars its performance often varied. Requiring specialized foods as well as officers who could speak the myraid languages, sustained heavy casualties limited its use. The sections of the book about the so-called martial races of India is interesting. After the Mutiny the British preferred to employ Northern Indians who were mostly moslem, as opposed to the Hindu's in the South of Madras and Bombay who were deemed untrustworthy and too smart by half for soldiering! The Rasjputs, Pathans and Sikhs would all become the martial races upon which the British drew for manpower in India.  The Sikhs in particualr, with their bizarre religion, have much to thank the British for.  Without them it is doubtful that they would have survived as a religion in India.  They flourished as merchants, urban dwellers and soldiers, the latter always considered an honorable profession for the warlike Sikhs. We might have fewer taxi cab drivers today if the British had not sustained their existence.<br />The last part of the book talks about the nightmare of Independence in India where Ghandi, Jinneh and Nehru were totally uncaring of the amount of trouble they caused as the British tried to dis-engage from the sub-continent without a religeous blood-bath. ... This book helps us to see a more accurate view of [Ghandi] and and his followers. ...  I urge people from both of those countries [India and Pakistan] to read this book and learn about their past as part of the Raj, which helped to make them what they are today.  All in all, a most excellent and revealing book on the subject.ikhs. We might have fewer taxi cab drivers today if the British had not sustained their existence. <br />The last part of the book talks about the nightmare of Independence in India where Ghandi, Jinneh and Nehru were totally uncaring of the amount of trouble they caused as the British tried to dis-engage from the sub-continent without a religeous blood-bath. ... This book helps us to see a more accurate view of [Ghandi] and and his followers. ...  I urge people from both of those countries [India and Pakistan] to read this book and learn about their past as part of the Raj, which helped to make them what they are today.  All in all, a most excellent and revealing book on the subject.	2002-09-10
US	50552445	R32ST2XENTLZRB	0743448219	858244378	The Four Feathers	Books	4	64	69	N	N	The Real Four Feathers - Different Than the Movie Versions	This book is full of noble ideas and notions of Victorian honor in the days of the British Empire.  Those who come to this book after seeing the 1939 Korda classic, or even the more stark 1979 re-make might be in for a suprise.  Even as this review is written yet another cineamtic foray is being planned with a Fall 2002 re-re-make.  No doubt 21st century notions of Political Correctness shall be heavy handed on this 19th Century classic.<br />Still, I think readers will be in for a bit of a disappointment here.  Not for the book itself which is a sublime piece of writing, a work typical ot the pathos of the time, but because of the lack of action contained therein.  This is a pyschological and emotional work.  The main charcters have many inner feelings to deal with.  The plot moves slowly at times, building to a gradual crescendo typical of Victorian novels of the day before it resolves itself in rapid sequences.<br />The film versions convey the general impression of the book, but there are not big clamatic battles of Omdurman or prison breaks which made the Korda movie such a rousing epic.  Here Harry Faversham is very much on his own to resolve his fears and inner emotions, as are his friends.  Its good to see a book like this revived, but readers who come to it from the movie theater or video are apt to be suprised at what they find here.  Lets hope the find the suprise a pleasant and interesting one.  I know I did.	2002-08-23
US	50552445	R3895HFYAXV24B	0393304442	560040952	Mr. Kipling's Army: All the Queen's Men	Books	5	36	36	N	N	An Eccentric View of The Victorian Army	This book provides a comprehensive survey of the Victorian army during the height of the Great British Empire. Mr. Farwell is something of an expert on this period and his lucid writing is a joy to read. The book brings out the many varied living conditions that existed in the British army of that time. This is more social history than pure military fare, but don't let that discourage the perspective reader. This is not dry stuff about living conditions in the Victorian army, the book is full of amusing anedotes from actual living Victorian soldiers.<br />They were a peculiar lot these Soldiers of the Queen, who cherished all their old traditions. The army was extremely conservetive in outlook, from Prviate to General. The regiment was the key element which kept it all together. The British army has always been a regimental army, and this was never more so than in the 19th Century. The army proved extremly adaptive to fighting in all the varied conditions within the Empire, and while this abundance of expereince gave it a unique espirit-de-corps, it did not prepare it well to fight any European conflicts. The British only barely managed to field a few full strength Corps at the beginning of the Great War in 1914. This was in no small way due to the Reforms of Edward Cardwell who created a reserve by linking many of the single battalion regiments together in the 1880s thereby establishing some form of reserve pool of manpower. The system just managed to hold the army together, but created many animosities between time-honored regiments who disliked being linked to each other in adinistractive fashion.<br />The book goes to great lengths to explain the huge social gulf between officers and enlisted men. The British army was stratified to a degree that no other army of the period entertained. It was an 18th century notion which struggled on into the next century. Farwell brings out these and many other fascinating details as he illustrates the daily life of the Victorian soldier. Those interested in the period of Queen Victoria's Little Wars won't want to put this one down. Its full of fascinating tid-bits of people like Kitchener, Charles Gordon, Wolsley, Frederick Roberts and Churchill, as well as the common soldiers and officers that made up the army. Also, anyone interested in the social anatomy of an army and the society to which it belonged should also find it most rewarding. There are many such Victorian studies out there, but few address the army, which perhaps reflected the age more directly than any other English institution of the time.rian soldier. Those interested in the period of Queen Victoria's Little Wars won't want to put this one down. Its full of fascinating tid-bits of people like Kitchener, Charles Gordon, Wolsley, Frederick Roberts and Churchill, as well as the common soldiers and officers that made up the army. Also, anyone interested in the social anatomy of an army and the society to which it belonged should also find it most rewarding. There are many such Victorian studies out there, but few address the army, which perhaps reflected the age more directly than any other English institution of the time.	2002-08-19
US	50552445	R3RRGGZV30OYZ2	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Flashman in Afghanistan	The Flashman novels provide a rogues view of the British Empire in the 19th century.  A warning however, these books are not for the PC crowd.  This is perhaps what makes them so funny, and at the same time interesting and informative.  Mr. Fraser has combined burlesque/comedy with historical fiction here, and he has done it masterfully.  Of course we do not condone Flashman's behavior, but at the same time he provides an amusing insight into the times he lived in.<br />In this first novel of the series Flashy relates how he got statrted in the British army with Lord Cardigan's 11th Hussars.<br />The story expands as he is posted to India after marrying below his station.  Flashy then finds himself in the sequence of events which lead to the desasterous Kabul expedition of 1842.  Much has been made of how the British lost an entire army on this occasion to the supposed prowess of the Afghans.  In fact of the 14,000 that comprised the Bombay army, fewer than a quarter were combatants, and only one British regiment, the 44th Foot, were involved.  The rest were hangers-on and camp followers.  It is no surprise that the Afghans were able to destroy this motely force.  This does not detract however from the appalling incompetence shown by General Elphistone and co. The book accurately portrays the timid leadhership displayed.<br />However, the British did come back to Kabul a year later and they crushed every Afghan force set against them.  So much for Afghans being unbeatable! Being that much of this novel is set in Afghanistan, the story makes for unteresting reading today.  While Flashman is a ficticious rake, he provides the medium by which the author can create some truly good historical fiction.  The events related have been carefully researched by the author, with only minor liberties taken here and there.  The narrative makes for fast and enjoyable reading.  Try not to let the Flashman character distract from the historical events which are being realted here.  Again, if you are soooo politically Correct it is doubtful you will get anything out of these books.  But if you like a good laugh and good historical fiction, Flashy is for you!Again, if you are soooo politically Correct it is doubtful you will get anything out of these books.  But if you like a good laugh and good historical fiction, Flashy is for you!	2002-08-13
US	50552445	R3CS3PODXORKMA	0553380443	212936771	Honorable Company: A Novel of India Before the Raj	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Hervey in India	I found this book a bit less interesting than the first in the series. Perhaps the pace was a lot slower. Hervey is now off to India where he finds much adventure, an a lot of Byzantine politics.  The political world of India in the early 19th century is well portrayed.  One can see where the Empire played such a vital role in protecting the country from brigends.  The story developes slowly in this volume, as Malinson writes more in the style of Patrick O'Brien.  Here we get lots of tips on how to maintain cavalry horses and the like.  Perhaps a bit tedious at times, but character building nonetheless.<br />The action is smaller scaled here, no more big slug-fests like Waterloo.  In India Hervey finds the seductiveness of the landscape intoxicating at times.  He learns to think on his feet and becomes adept at masterering the &quot;petit guerre&quot; of warfare in the East.  This series shows promise, even if Hervey is no Sharpe, and Malinson no Cornwell.	2002-08-09
US	50552445	R3KU2KKBPOWOHT	0195146603	2582519	Ornamentalism: How the British Saw Their Empire	Books	5	6	9	N	N	A nice perspective of the British Empire	This book presents a clear and concise perspective of the British empire.  Not only does the author give a good general overview of this huge topic, but his views are clear and to the point.  The empire meant different things to different people.  What the author has tried to show is that the British did not base their empire on race, but class.  An important distinction which balances many of the anti-empire racial perspectives that politically correct historians have been so fond of pointing out recently.  Cannadine agrees that there was a racial element for sure, but that class hierarchy and ceremony were the predomenent factors involved.  Seen in this way we get a much different idea of what the Empire was to different people.  It is less a Black and White view which may not be popular to those who like to see things in more simplistic terms.  Still, a nice read, with clear and concise writing.  It will deffinitely stimulate your thoughts on the topic.	2002-08-07
US	50552445	R1T00U1JNTGQJR	0060002522	317386419	Sharpe's Prey: Richard Sharpe & the Expedition to Denmark, 1807 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #5)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sharpe in Denmark, 1807	This is book is not as bad as some reviewers seem to indicate.  I find it easilier to view Sharpe as a means to an end.  The Sharpe character serves as a vehicle in which Mr. Cornwell can present a fascinating portrayal of the Napoleanic period in which the British army fought.  To view him in any other context is absurd, because Sharpe is superhuman.  No other living mortal could have seen and done the many things which Cornwell has put him through.  If looked at in this way, the Sharpe series can really be a fun, entertaining and informative read.  Sharpe represents the Tommy Atkins of Wellington's army which humbled the great Corsican over years of warfare.<br />Cornwell has been back-tracking his saga ever since getting Sharpe through the Peninsular and Waterloo campaigns.  The many references to his past in India and England that were mentioned in these novels have been brought to the fore in the latest series.  We get to see how Sharpe got himself into the 95th Rifles and with Wellington's army in Spain.  One has to credit Cornwell for doing a brilliant job here of incorporating all this information and plot together.  He has constructed each novel to stand on its own, as well as be part of the on-going Sharpe series.  What makes these novels great is their period detail and close attention to history.  The reader not only gets first-class action, romance and adventure, but great historical detail as well.  It's a winning combination for sure, even if Sharpe does come across as a robotic killing machine at times. Cornwell's penchant for graphic descriptions of fighting and killing also carry much shock value and keep the reader standing on edge.<br />In this story our hero actually expresses a little feeling and emotion for a change.  The 1807 Denmark expedition is little known and this makes the novel quite interesting.  Sharpe does less of a killing spree here than in previous novels and perhaps this is what readers miss in this book!  Danes are not slaughtered like Frenchmen usually are!  Cornwell provides vivid action for the small-scale battles that occur, allowing us to see the 95th Rifles in action for the first time.  We also get brief cameos of characters who will become important later on while earlier characters prepare to make their exit for them.<br />All in all a worthy addition to the on-going Sharpe series.  If Cornwell can squeese out another one it will have to be set in Portugal at the battles of Rolica and Vimero where Wellington and Sharpe will begin their long march toward Waterloo.htered like Frenchmen usually are!  Cornwell provides vivid action for the small-scale battles that occur, allowing us to see the 95th Rifles in action for the first time.  We also get brief cameos of characters who will become important later on while earlier characters prepare to make their exit for them.  <br />All in all a worthy addition to the on-going Sharpe series.  If Cornwell can squeese out another one it will have to be set in Portugal at the battles of Rolica and Vimero where Wellington and Sharpe will begin their long march toward Waterloo.	2002-07-31
US	50552445	R3BO4I6A7T5YG	0060194251	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sharpe at Sea!	Bernard Cornwell continues his incredible adventures of Richard Sharpe.  With the series having explored nearly every aspect of the Napoleanic period in which the British were invovled, the author is running out of historical chronology in which to insert his main character.<br />Cornwell has been re-tracking Sharpe's career ever since he finished the Peninsular War and Waterloo.  Its a credit to the author's genius that he manages to make it work, but the lengths at which he must go in order to do so are getting a little thin now.  With this book Cornwell devles into Patrick O'Brien terrority with Royal Navy nautical lore.  He seems to have the nautical jargon down pretty good, although this land-lubber wouldn't really know if he was off or not!<br />All the ingredients of the Sharp series are here.  Some stawart companions, arrogant aristos who always want to bring Sharpe low, treacherous characters who are not what they appear, and a lovely lady of the blue blood who falls for Sharpe's manliness!  We have seen this all many times before in the earlier series, but Cornwell still somehow makes it work!  The plot moves along with the usual on the edge page-turner writing and after the slow build-up we explode onto the carnage and horror of Trafalgar where Sharpe gets to meet Nelson first hand and compare him to Wellsley!<br /> The battle scenes are Cornwell's forte and the blood, sweat and tears of Trafalgar become vivd before the reader's eyes.  The carnage among the Franco-Spanish fleet was truly horrible and even through the British suffered much less severely, the stress and strain of the battle was no less for them.  Cornwell describes this very well, even though Sharpe's penchant for killing continues to stack the body count in his favor.  In the wholes series Sharpe has probably killed close to several thousand people!  A bit unbelieveable perhaps, but Cornwell's supurb action writing still manages to hold it all together.  Next stop, Denmark and the 95th Rifles!  After that, Sharpe series shouid get a much needed rest.h Rifles!  After that, Sharpe series shouid get a much needed rest.	2002-07-22
US	50552445	R2Q9H7FHRR60MI	0912951362	987217036	Piper in Peace and War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Deeds of Heroic Pipers	This is fun book to read, but the information conveyed seems skewed at times.  The author writes in the laudatory fashion popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Therefor every piper is heroic and praiseworthy. The national pride the author takes in his subject is touching, but limits the objectivity of his writing. Most of the information concerns the Great War of 1914-18 where surely the greatest loss of pipers during any conflcit took place.  Information on pipers in earlier conflicts is a bit more fragmentary.<br />The author breaks his subject down by individual Scottish Regiments and runs through each's history.  Sometimes the information is useful, other times not.  There is a useful glossary of famous pipers in the back of the book which is  great for quick reference.  This book could use being seriously updated as the piping scene and the number of Scottish regiments has changed a lot in recent years.  A major addenda for piping in the Second World War and Korea, as well as other post war sundry conflcits could probably fill another book which someone should consider doing. Still, for its subject matter there are not many books out there.  For more hard core info. on piping in the British army consult David Murray's \\"Music in the Scottish Regiments\\".  The book may not be available in the States, but try Amazon in UK instead.	2002-07-13
US	50552445	R1L4O97F43G616	0393305333	405729684	Eminent Victorian Soldiers: Seekers of Glory	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The Victorian Empire Builders	This compendium biography presents a fine sketch of the eight prominent Victorian generals who commanded during the Little Wars of Queen Victoria.  The often respressed and somewhat bizarre characteristics of these men seems typical of the Victorian mind-set.  While they were certainly eccentric, these men personified the times they lived in and in their actions pursued the notion of the White Man's burden to civilize the dark regions of the world.<br />In the politcially correct times that we live in today perhaps some of these notions will appear offensive, but in order to appreciate these man we must understand the times they lived in and try not to impose our own values upon them.  Indeed, many Victorians would find our social values today strange to comprehend as well.  Byron Farwell specializes in the Victorian military experience and his writtings on this topic are always witty and informative.<br />The reader may find it surprising that homosexuality was present in several of these gentlemen, namely Charles Gordon and Hector Macdonald.  Again, we can attribute this to the oddities of the age which repressed such feelings on the surface, thereby encouraging their lurkings behind the scenes. It is doubtful that any of them would have preferred to advertise their inclinations as seems to be the norm today.  Homosexuality was more discreet then, and perhaps that was a good thing in a way.<br />The military life that these men pursued perhaps inclined them toward a different lifestyle as the compnay of women was often infrequent in far outposts.<br />The talents of these generals certainly expanded the  British Empire and made it one of the great epochs of its day.  Farwell has provided a worthy addition to Lytton Strachey's  earlier work, &quot;Eminent Victorians&quot;.  The reader will find all sorts of interesting and amusing aspects of these Eminent Victorian Generals.	2002-06-22
US	50552445	R1JT622GINEOOM	0700610529	112749269	Niagara 1814: America Invades Canada	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Niagara or Bust in 1814!	This is a reasonably well researched book on the 1814 Niagara campaign. It's good to see that the War of 1812 is finanlly beginning to receive some of the attention that the Revolution and the Civil War has always received in US History. Despite the reviews that state this is an unbiased account of the pivital campaign fought on the Niagara Peninsular in 1814, I found Mr. Barbuto's account suffered from pro-American sentiments, even if they are were more subtle than Elting's earlier work on the war.<br />Barbuto's main thesis seems to be that the American militia gave a better account of itself in the war than most historians give them credit for. Is this a valid point? He cites the battle of Chippewa as one example where Porter's militia roughly handled the British-lead Indians and Canadian Militia, but even still the US Militia broke when confronted by Pearson's Light companies. Scott had to use Jesup's 25th Infantry to cover his left flank during the battle after Porter's militia were streaming to the rear. Granted, the militia did better here, but they still could not stand up to regulars.<br />At Lundy's Lane Porter's 300 odd men from his brigade gave a pretty good account of themselves, but the were defending, always easier for militia to do, and in the end along with the rest of the US army they retired from the field giving Drummund's battered British regulars a hard fought victory.<br />Under Gaines at the sortie of Fort Erie the Militia did manage to overrun some British gun emplacements, but the battle becomes a confused affair in the rain, and the British reserves from the 6th & 82nd foot shatter the American militia with heavy vollies  as they mill around in the captured British works. The fighting also took place in broken ground and was not a stand up fight, also more favorable circumstances for US militia. These facts are<br />not mentioned in Barbuto's work. The American militia can do adequately when properly lead, but even on these occasions they really can't stand up to British regulars, as much as Mr. Barbuto would like to make us think they could.<br />The book spends a lot of time going over the first two years of the war. I thought a bit too much time was used covering this background information which can be found in many of the other general histories on this conflict. Also, the author repeated information in this background study.<br />The main strength of this work is the operational perspective it provides on the Niagara campaign. Barbuto's work is basically a study of the campaign's background, preparation and exicution.  As such it succeeds adequately. But those seeking a more detailed description on the major battles of Chippewa, Lundy's Lane and Fort Erie should read Donald Grave's work on these subjects. Where Mr. Barbuto excels is in his analysis of the battles and how they shaped the 1814 campaign. He provides cogent reasons for why certian decisions were made, and how they influenced events. This to me is the main strength of this book, which sets it apart from the geneal histories of the conflict.<br />Barbuto gives too much attention trying to prove that the American army was the equal to the British after Scott's intensive training. Again, the only clear-cut victory of the campaign in the open is at Chippewa, where Scott's spendid brigade bests the British in a fair firefight. At Fort Erie they do heavily repulse the British assult, but this is not a fair fight in the open. Fortunately Barbuto does not make the twin mistakes of claiming the British attacked in colume or that they<br />were routed at Chippewa. At Lundy's Lane the Americans fought hard, but in the end they retreated and give up the guns they captured from the British. Even at Fort Erie where Gaine's sortie makes initial progress, the attack bogs down and the British repulse the attack.<br />Given these circumstances it is difficult to support Mr. Barbuto's claim that after Chippewa American regulars and militia never gaveground again. In this regard the author allows his nationalism to unbalance his perspective somewhat.<br />Despite these drawbacks, this is still a worthwhile overview of the 1814 campaign. There is a lot of information about US regiments and leaders, while somewhat less on British units and their commanders. The perspective is mostly seen from the American side, with some attempts to describe what the British were  doing. Probably for the most detailed and non-biased accounts of the battles of 1814 Donald Graves remains the best, but Barbuto has made a worthwhile effort. It would be nice if he or another author might do the same analysis on the 1812 or 1813 campagns, but few American historians want to study this embarrassing aspect of the war in any depth! Can we blame them!Deffinitely a good buy for War of 1812 fans if the slight pro-American bias is taken into account.e ground again. In this regard the author allows his nationalism to unbalance his perspective somewhat. <br />Despite these drawbacks, this is still a worthwhile overview of the 1814 campaign. There is a lot of information about US regiments and leaders, while somewhat less on British units and their commanders. The perspective is mostly seen from the American side, with some attempts to describe what the British were  doing. Probably for the most detailed and non-biased accounts of the battles of 1814 Donald Graves remains the best, but Barbuto has made a worthwhile effort. It would be nice if he or another author might do the same analysis on the 1812 or 1813 campagns, but few American historians want to study this embarrassing aspect of the war in any depth! Can we blame them!Deffinitely a good buy for War of 1812 fans if the slight pro-American bias is taken into account.	2002-06-21
US	50552445	R1QFPXXT199N6A	0304352845	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	5	14	14	N	N	All Three Punic Wars for the Price of One!	Mr. Goldsworthy presents a clean and concise analysis of the three Punic Wars which beset Rome and Carthage in the 3rd and 2nd centuries BC.  There is not much to quibble about with this book, presenting as it does one of the best studies of all there conflicts out there.  The author discusses the primary works of Polybius, Appian, Livy and others and lists their strong and weak points in describing the Punic conflict.<br />What the book lacks if anything is a few illustrations showing the reader what some of the naval vessels of the period looked like.  The detailed descriptions provided of their construction and use is not supported by any pictures.  Otherwise, the narrative flows smoothly, with the author commenting on the validity of the principal primary works and attempting to fill in the gaps with his own astute ideas.  Obviously the information on the 2nd Punic War with Hannibal's epic invasion of Rome is the most completely covered.  The author provides a great blow by blow description of the early campaigns in Italy from Hannibal's first success at the Trebbia River to Cannae itself.  Our information on the 1st and 3rd Punic Wars is much less complete and therefor receives correspondlingly less attention.<br />The author is careful not to compare the military genius of Hannibal and Scipio Africanus, believing that such comparisons are poinless, even if fun for the military historian.  Goldsworthy tries to fill in the numerous gaps left by the primary sources with his own hypothesis which allows the reader to make his own conclusions.<br />This book provides fresh analysis of an age-old conflcit often seen to this day with many myths.  The author provides comparisons with the past to the present with the military situation which might be annoying to the pure student of antiquity, but which is useful to the military historian.  The main strength of this work is that it provides a comprehensive and comparative account of the all three of the Punic conflicts.  The author carefully traces the strategies both combatants took, and notes their differences in each conflict.  A most excellent read and a must for military historians and those fascinated with antiquity and early Rome.icts.  The author carefully traces the strategies both combatants took, and notes their differences in each conflict.  A most excellent read and a must for military historians and those fascinated with antiquity and early Rome.	2002-06-06
US	50552445	REIJEC6KQBOYD	0873386590	54350504	Sword of the Border: Major General Jacob Jennings Brown, 1775-1828	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unknown Hero of War of 1812	This book provides a sparkling bio on the life and times of Maj. Gen. Jacob Brown.  For too long we have ignored the study of the US army in the post Revolutionary War period.  Jacob Brown, a Quaker turned soldier was one of the founding fathers of the American army in the early part of the 19th century.  Like Winfield Scott and others of this period they have for too long been overshadowed by the galaxy of personalities associated with the Civil War.  Without the Browns and Scotts in the antebellum US army there would not have been a firm military foundation in this country on which to build anything.<br />For sure Brown was no military genius, but he possessed common sense and was aggressive in his generalship.  After whitnessing first hand the shameful failures in the first part of the War of 1812 when ametuer American armies bumbled their way across the border into Canada only to be sent reeling back, Brown and others learned quickly what not to do.  A successful defense against Governor Provost's clumsy attack upon Sacketts Harbor in 1813 quickly marked Brown as one of the few American generals able to best British regulars.  He was destined to achieve higher command than just the inefficient New York State Militia.<br />After the disasterous Montreal campaign of 1813, easily the worst debacle in US military history, Brown achieved rank as Maj. Gen. in the regular army.  His promotion was one of several which was intended to remove the aged and incompetent generals that were ruining the army.<br />Brown and Winfield Scott worked hard in preparation for the 1814 Niagara campagn.  Scott has been given a lot of the credit for this work, but it was really Brown who put the wheels in motion and who gave Scott the latitude to train and perfect his little brigade.  The 1814 Niagara campagn would be the coming of age for the US army.  The fiercely fought battles of Chippewa, Lundy's Lane and Fort Erie are at long last starting to receive the attention they deserve.  Morris in his bio goes into some depth concerning these actions, and rightfully so as Brown played a major part in them all.  Still, we see that it was Brown's maanagement and control of the army as opposed to his battlefield genius that accomplished more than anything.  Brown got the militia to actually cross the border and support the regulars.  Brown is often credied as the only general who was never defeated by the British.  American historians are often desperate to point this out in order to regain some pride from an embarrassing conflict.  While Brown was successful in all his battles save Fort Erie, he very easily could have lost at any one of them.  Still, compared to the likes of Dearborn, Wilkinson and Hull, Brown comes acorss as a towering military genius!<br />This biography on Brown paints a nice picture of the man and the times he lived in.  We learn of the origins of this old and honorable American family and how they became the land barons of northern New York before the war. We learn of Brown's domestic life and large family from the fragmentary records which the author has put together and carefully arranged.  Where there is not enough evidence the author tries to put together the pieces.  The War of 1812 takes up about half of this book, while the remainder shows how Brown struggled to maintain a tiny US army under the constant attacks of scheming politicians in Washington.  Without Brown's  harmonizing efforts the US army might not be what it is today.  Brown was also instrumental in reorganizing many departments within the army, and deserves every bit as much credit as Scott has recieved over the years. All of this was done while Brown struggled with heavy debts and  a failing health.<br />Morris has rescued the honor of a general who deserves a very important place in the early history of the US army.  This is a very readable and concise biography.  All students of the War of 1812 and the period in general should enjoy this book.ris in his bio goes into some depth concerning these actions, and rightfully so as Brown played a major part in them all.  Still, we see that it was Brown's maanagement and control of the army as opposed to his battlefield genius that accomplished more than anything.  Brown got the militia to actually cross the border and support the regulars.  Brown is often credied as the only general who was never defeated by the British.  American historians are often desperate to point this out in order to regain some pride from an embarrassing conflict.  While Brown was successful in all his battles save Fort Erie, he very easily could have lost at any one of them.  Still, compared to the likes of Dearborn, Wilkinson and Hull, Brown comes acorss as a towering military genius!<br />This biography on Brown paints a nice picture of the man and the times he lived in.  We learn of the origins of this old and honorable American family and how they became the land barons of northern New York before the war. We learn of Brown's domestic life and large family from the fragmentary records which the author has put together and carefully arranged.  Where there is not enough evidence the author tries to put together the pieces.  The War of 1812 takes up about half of this book, while the remainder shows how Brown struggled to maintain a tiny US army under the constant attacks of scheming politicians in Washington.  Without Brown's  harmonizing efforts the US army might not be what it is today.  Brown was also instrumental in reorganizing many departments within the army, and deserves every bit as much credit as Scott has recieved over the years. All of this was done while Brown struggled with heavy debts and  a failing health. <br />Morris has rescued the honor of a general who deserves a very important place in the early history of the US army.  This is a very readable and concise biography.  All students of the War of 1812 and the period in general should enjoy this book.	2002-06-03
US	50552445	R121FUFJ477FCA	0873386590	54350504	Sword of the Border: Major General Jacob Jennings Brown, 1775-1828	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unknown Hero of War of 1812	This book provides a sparkling bio on the life and times of Maj. Gen. Jacob Brown.  For too long we have ignored the study of the US army in the post Revolutionary War period.  Jacob Brown, a Quaker turned soldier was one of the founding fathers of the American army in the early part of the 19th century.  Like Winfield Scott and others of this period they have for too long been overshadowed by the galaxy of personalities associated with the Civil War.  Without the Browns and Scotts in the antebellum US army there would not have been a firm military foundation in this country on which to build anything.<br />For sure Brown was no military genius, but he possessed common sense and was aggressive in his generalship.  After whitnessing first hand the shameful failures in the first part of the War of 1812 when ametuer American armies bumbled their way across the border into Canada only to be sent reeling back, Brown and others learned quickly what not to do.  A successful defense against Governor Provost's clumsy attack upon Sacketts Harbor in 1813 quickly marked Brown as one of the few American generals able to best British regulars.  He was destined to achieve higher command than just the inefficient New York State Militia. <BR>After the disasterous Montreal campaign of 1813, easily the worst debacle in US military history, Brown achieved rank as Maj. Gen. in the regular army.  His promotion was one of several which was intended to remove the aged and incompetent generals that were ruining the army.<br />Brown and Winfield Scott worked hard in preparation for the 1814 Niagara campagn.  Scott has been given a lot of the credit for this work, but it was really Brown who put the wheels in motion and who gave Scott the latitude to train and perfect his little brigade.  The 1814 Niagara campagn would be the coming of age for the US army.  The fiercely fought battles of Chippewa, Lundy's Lane and Fort Erie are at long last starting to receive the attention they deserve.  Morris in his bio goes into some depth concerning these actions, and rightfully so as Brown played a major part in them all.  Still, we see that it was Brown's maanagement and control of the army as opposed to his battlefield genius that accomplished more than anything.  Brown got the militia to actually cross the border and support the regulars.  Brown is often credied as the only general who was never defeated by the British.  American historians are often desperate to point this out in order to regain some pride from an embarrassing conflict.  While Brown was successful in all his battles save Fort Erie, he very easily could have lost at any one of them.  Still, compared to the likes of Dearborn, Wilkinson and Hull, Brown comes acorss as a towering military genius!<br />This biography on Brown paints a nice picture of the man and the times he lived in.  We learn of the origins of this old and honorable American family and how they became the land barons of northern New York before the war. We learn of Brown's domestic life and large family from the fragmentary records which the author has put together and carefully arranged.  Where there is not enough evidence the author tries to put together the pieces.  The War of 1812 takes up about half of this book, while the remainder shows how Brown struggled to maintain a tiny US army under the constant attacks of scheming politicians in Washington.  Without Brown's  harmonizing efforts the US army might not be what it is today.  Brown was also instrumental in reorganizing many departments within the army, and deserves every bit as much credit as Scott has recieved over the years. All of this was done while Brown struggled with heavy debts and  a failing health. <br />Morris has rescued the honor of a general who deserves a very important place in the early history of the US army.  This is a very readable and concise biography.  All students of the War of 1812 and the period in general should enjoy this book.	2002-06-03
US	50552445	R2QYC0Z4QHS8EL	1896941109	336193306	Field of Glory: The Battle of Crysler's Farm, 1813	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Montreal or Bust in 1813!	The 1813 campaign against Montreal must rank as one of the most dismal episodes in US Military History.  No wonder it takes a Canadian like Donald Graves to write about it, as no American historian has wanted to touch it!  Yet there is much food for thought here, and we as Americans have a lot to learn from our poor showing at the battles of Crysler's Farm and Chatanquay.  In America we are often found of pointing out how the British professionals lacked imagination and iniative.  This seemed to be so during the Revolution.  How did it change for the War of 1812?  The fundimental difference appears to be that the 13 Colonies took a defensive posture against the Britishin the Revolution, while in the War of 1812 the United States was deffinitely the aggressor.  Yet the laws of the United States did not provide well for offensive operations.  State Militias could deny crossing international boundries, and did so freqeuently during this conflict.  Also, the leadership in the United States army was exceedingly poor in this period.  With the likes of James Wilkinson, John Boyd and Wade Hampton leading the US invasion against Montreal, what else but failure could be expected!  Here we have the classic example of political patronage and connections providing an officer corps that was totally incompetent.  In contrast, the British, often accused of having such in their army, were made up totally of competent, professional individuals.<br />The American Army that went to war in 1812 was as bad or worse than the Spanish army of the period.  The American troops were half trained at best, brave yes, but that could not compensate against discipline and professionalism.  At the battle of Chantanguay a small force of Canadien Voltigeurs and Indians under de Salaberry managed to rebuff Wade Hampton.  Canadians have made much of this action, but in reality with the uninspired generalship of Hampton, defeat was almost assured.  This poor showing was compounded a few weeks later at Crysler's Farm where a much bigger American army was roughly handled by a smaller professional British force less than half its size.  Wilkinson who lead this part of the army demonstrated leadhership as bad or worse than Hampton.  In fact he was ill throughout the battle, leaving command in the field to John Boyd, a mercinary soldier of low fortune.  The British, under the inspired Colonel Morrison had only the 49th & 89th regiments of foot and a few light companies and militia to hold off Boyd's horde. Yet, the sheer professionalism of the British and their allies enabled them to do so.  Morrison deployed his well-drilled regulars in an enclosed field, forcing the Americans to take him head-on.  The bumbling American columns were shot to pieces as they emerged from the woods, yet the prolonged firefight which ensued would prove costly to the Britsih as well.  Still, there could be no denying that the Americans were woefully under trained to take on such professionals.  Boyd withdrew after two hours of desultry fighting, losing close to 500 men killed, wounded and captured.  British losses were less than half.  With this second repulse, the American drive on Montreal was ended.<br />Canada owes a great debt to the professionalism of the British regulars who defended her borders.  Popular Canadian history has tried to down-play the contributions of the British troops, while boasting the role of the Indians and Militia.  This is nonesense, and Mr.Graves more than sets the record straight here.<br />Overall this is Mr. Grave's longest and most impressive work.  His two previous books on the battles of Chippewa and Lundy's Lane brought these less well known actions to light, dispelling many popular myths in the process.  Here Graves has shed light on a very dark aspect of the war for the United States, and one that is not well known in this country.  American readers may find it painful to read, yet instructional.  Also, in the ashes of defeat would come redemption in the following year when Jacob Brown and Winfield Scott conduct the 1814 Niagara campaign which salvages to some exstent the shattered reputation of the United States army.  In reading this book one can see that we Americans are a people that enjoy war, yet are not professional in our conduct of it.  These are lessons we need to take to heart for the present day.<br />In conclusion, Grave's book is well written, full of many interesting bios on the personalities involved, and provides numerous addenda.  This reader cannot recommend it highly enough.  It is his best work on the War of 1812 so far.  Military buffs of the period will enjoy its up-close description of the fighting, providing as it does an interesting example of Napoleanic tactics applied in a secondary theater of war.  All War of 1812 nuts should have it in their collection.e following year when Jacob Brown and Winfield Scott conduct the 1814 Niagara campaign which salvages to some exstent the shattered reputation of the United States army.  In reading this book one can see that we Americans are a people that enjoy war, yet are not professional in our conduct of it.  These are lessons we need to take to heart for the present day.  <br />In conclusion, Grave's book is well written, full of many interesting bios on the personalities involved, and provides numerous addenda.  This reader cannot recommend it highly enough.  It is his best work on the War of 1812 so far.  Military buffs of the period will enjoy its up-close description of the fighting, providing as it does an interesting example of Napoleanic tactics applied in a secondary theater of war.  All War of 1812 nuts should have it in their collection.	2002-05-09
US	50552445	R331X66GDQFJXP	1896941036	739471146	Where Right and Glory Lead! The Battle of Lundy's Lane, 1814	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Soldiers Battle in the War of 1812	This is an excellent study on the bloodiest battle of the War of 1812.  For many years little was known about the series of battles fought along the Niagara Frontier in 1814.  This book helps to correct that gap.  A companion volume to the author's earlier title on the Battle of Chippewa, here again many myths are corrected.<br />Winfield Scott recklessly lead his well trained brigade against General Drummonds British posted on the bluff above Lundy's Lane. Unlike many accounts of this battle told in most histories, here Mr. Graves shows us that Scott marched his brigade up to the British position, deployed it, and allowed it to be shot to pieces!  The British artillery tore Scott's brigade apart while it stood dutifully at attention awaiting Scott's word to advance. But Scott held back, fearful of being outnumbered, and affraid to retreat before a superior enemy.  Most histories tell us that Scott recklessy attacked, but the in-depth study of the battle provided here shows us this was not the case.  Scott advanced his brigade to contact, but did not commit it completely to attack.  Only when Ripley's and Porter's brigades reinforced subsequently did the American's finally attack and carry the British guns.  But Scott's brigade will play no part in this process until later.<br />One of the interesting things about this battle is how poorly both sides fought it.  Scott was reckless to the point of mania, while Drummond was weary after the recent defeat at Chippewa.  The British general had only to advance his line at any point during the battle and the American position would have been untenible.  Why Drummond did not make use of his six light companies to screen his force and harrass the American advance remains one of the mysteries of the battle.  The series of British counter-attacks which took place to regain their guns has also been wrongly described by many historians of the action.  As the battle continued from late afternoon into night the fighting became more and more confused.  If Drummond had properly deployed his skirmishers Brown never could have captured the British artillery.  Instead, the Americans were allowed to gain a lodgement in the center of the British line and a bloody series of close range fire-fights took place, all to no avail in driving<br />back the determined Americans.  Both sides would lose in excess of 800 men and the battle would become one of the greatest debacles of the War. Both sides would claim victory, even though neither really could justify it.<br /> For sure the 1814 Niagara Campaign and its battles deserves more attention.  It was this campaign and its battles at Chippewa, Lundy's Lane, and later the siege at Fort Erie which made the ameteur American army into a respected fighting force.  If not for these two battles the New Republic would have been disgraced.<br />We can certainly learn a lot from studying this campaign.  Andrew Jackson and New Orleans has been done over and over again.  There is little to learn from this one-sided battle which saw Americans safely defeating British regulars from behind entrenchments.  What makes Lundy's Lane important is that Brown's brigades went toe-to-toe against British professionals.  They gave as good as they got, and could have done a lot worse.  Winfield Scott emerges as a somewhat vainglory maniac, who nonetheless drilled his brigade to the point where it could fight like a European army.  His colume attack later in the battle, while another dismal failure, illustrates that the American army, when well trained and officered, could perform European tactics.  Scott, for all his faults and recklessness, deserves a lot of credit for this.<br />In sum, Graves has done a great job rescueing an important battle from the dust-bins of history.  The narrative is vivid, smooth, and un-biased. Many prints and pictures enhance the text.  This is the deffinitive work on this battle for many years to come.  All War of 1812 buffs should have it in their collection.eir collection.	2002-04-21
US	50552445	R210RGNHMYFXIK	1896941036	739471146	Where Right and Glory Lead! The Battle of Lundy's Lane, 1814	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	A Soldiers Battle in the War of 1812	This is an excellent study on the bloodiest battle of the War of 1812.  For many years little was known about the series of battles fought along the Niagara Frontier in 1814.  This book helps to correct that gap.  A companion volume to the author's earlier title on the Battle of Chippewa, here again many myths are corrected.  <br />Winfield Scott recklessly lead his well trained brigade against General Drummonds British posted on the bluff above Lundy's Lane. Unlike many accounts of this battle told in most histories, here Mr. Graves shows us that Scott marched his brigade up to the British position, deployed it, and allowed it to be shot to pieces!  The British artillery tore Scott's brigade apart while it stood dutifully at attention awaiting Scott's word to advance. But Scott held back, fearful of being outnumbered, and affraid to retreat before a superior enemy.  Most histories tell us that Scott recklessy attacked, but the in-depth study of the battle provided here shows us this was not the case.  Scott advanced his brigade to contact, but did not commit it completely to attack.  Only when Ripley's and Porter's brigades reinforced subsequently did the American's finally attack and carry the British guns.  But Scott's brigade will play no part in this process until later.  <br />One of the interesting things about this battle is how poorly both sides fought it.  Scott was reckless to the point of mania, while Drummond was weary after the recent defeat at Chippewa.  The British general had only to advance his line at any point during the battle and the American position would have been untenible.  Why Drummond did not make use of his six light companies to screen his force and harrass the American advance remains one of the mysteries of the battle.  The series of British counter-attacks which took place to regain their guns has also been wrongly described by many historians of the action.  As the battle continued from late afternoon into night the fighting becamemore and more confused.  If Drummond had properly deployed his skirmishers Brown never could have captured the British artillery.  Instead, the Americans were allowed to gain a lodgement in the center of the British line and a bloody series of close range fire-fights took place, all to no avail in driving <BR>back the determined Americans.  Both sides would lose in excess of 800 men and the battle would become one of the greatest debacles of the War. Both sides would claim victory, even though neither really could justify it. <br /> For sure the 1814 Niagara Campaign and its battles deserves more attention.  It was this campaign and its battles at Chippewa, Lundy's Lane, and later the siege at Fort Erie which made the ameteur American army into a respected fighting force.  If not for these two battles the New Republic would have been disgraced.  <BR>We can certainly learn a lot from studying this campaign.  Andrew Jackson and New Orleans has been done over and over again.  There is little to learn from this one-sided battle which saw Americans safely defeating British regulars from behind entrenchments.  What makes Lundy's Lane important is that Brown's brigades went toe-to-toe against British professionals.  They gave as good as they got, and could have done a lot worse.  Winfield Scott emerges as a somewhat vainglory maniac, who nonetheless drilled his brigade to the point where it could fight like a European army.  His colume attack later in the battle, while another dismal failure, illustrates that the American army, when well trained and officered, could perform European tactics.  Scott, for all his faults and recklessness, deserves a lot of credit for this.  <br />In sum, Graves has done a great job rescueing an important battle from the dust-bins of history.  The narrative is vivid, smooth, and un-biased. Many prints and pictures enhance the text.  This is the deffinitive work on this battle for many years to come.  All War of 1812 buffs should have it in their collection.	2002-04-21
US	50552445	R31ZYFFAR3U00H	1550022105	789161305	Red Coats & Grey Jackets: The Battle of Chippawa, 5 July 1814	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Revises Myths of the Battle	Mr.Graves does an excellent job descirbing an obscure, yet compelling battle of the War of 1812. Winfield Scott professionally trained and lead his famed brigade at Chippewa where he managed to get the better of the British in a brief, but hard fought firer-fight. The book correctly dispels many of the myths associated with this battle. Contrary to popular opinion, the British did not attack in column, as many histories of the war have asserted. The British were a linear army, they generally deployed and fought in a two rank line. This is how they fought and defeated Napeolean in Spain. It would have been illogical of them to have fought any other way at this battle. Although the British were known to employ the column on occasion, Chippewa was not one of them.  Another myth dispelled is that Scott's brigade routed Gen. Riall's command. The British were bested in a fair-firefight, and retired in good order. They did not rout or run off the field as claimed in many works. Also, there is no documented evidence that Gen. Riall exclaimed \\"By God those are regulars!\\" when he saw Scott's brigade advancing in a professional manner against him. Graves asserts that this famous quote, found in every history on the War of 1812 was first used by Scott himself in his memoirs written many years later. Scott had a tendency to inflate his own importance and liked to refer to himself in the third person in order to do so! Still another myth associated with this battle is that the grey jackets worn by many of Scott's brigade were adopted by West Point to commemorate the battle. Evidence suggests that the US Military Academy had already adopted the grey jacket at least a year before the event. Scott had no particular preference whether his men wore grey or regualtion blue uniforms. All he was concerned with was a professional appearence. The grey jackets were sent because that was all that was available. Normally militia wore such uniforms in the US army.<br />Chippewa created quite a sensation in the States because it was one of the first battles the US regular army actually won against British regulars during the whole war. Up until this point the US regular army had not conducted itself much better than militia! The varied and un-even performance of the American army during the whole War of 1812 was no doubt quite vexing to the British. In a strange way it might have worked to the advantage of the Americans in some cases, although the often poor showing the army made in most engagements did not reflect well upon the young nations honor.<br />The real winners of this controversial battle was Winfield Scott and co. who would become the doyens of American military culture throughout the 19th century. In many respects the US army was founded on the Niagara Frontier in 1814, and not at Valley Forge in 1778. Chippewa and Lundy's Lane a few weeks later were important landmarks in this development. They deserve to be remembered. Thanks to Graves perhaps now they will be.a sensation in the States because it was one of the first battles the US regular army actually won against British regulars during the whole war. Up until this point the US regular army had not conducted itself much better than militia! The varied and un-even performance of the American army during the whole War of 1812 was no doubt quite vexing to the British. In a strange way it might have worked to the advantage of the Americans in some cases, although the often poor showing the army made in most engagements did not reflect well upon the young nations honor. <br />The real winners of this controversial battle was Winfield Scott and co. who would become the doyens of American military culture throughout the 19th century. In many respects the US army was founded on the Niagara Frontier in 1814, and not at Valley Forge in 1778. Chippewa and Lundy's Lane a few weeks later were important landmarks in this development. They deserve to be remembered. Thanks to Graves perhaps now they will be.	2002-04-12
US	50552445	R39P4H3FER3NKD	0806131284	327107439	Agent of Destiny: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Disappointing Perspective of Scott	This rather wooden biography of Scott does not begin to cover in any details the complexity of this man and the times he lived in. As a military historian, Eisenhower seems to gloss over much of Scott's battlefield tactics. This is surprising. His description of the battle of Lundy's Lane, argueably the bloodiest encounter in the War of 1812, is given scant attention here. At this battle, Scott pioneered using a French Napoleanic colume to attack the British position on the bluff above the town. Scott tried this attack hours after the battle had been raging, and long after his own brigade had been shot to pieces by the British. His attack again failed, the British vollies ripping into his column, but the event marked Scott as an important tactical innovator in the fledgling US army. None of this is mentioned in Eisnhower's account of the battle.<br />The remaining portion of this book moves at a snail's pace. Eisenhower's prose is not inspiring, and at times clumsy. Too much time is spent on Scott's petty intrigues with US Presidents and rival generals. In the course of which we learn little of his domestic life, and even less about Winfield Scott, the man. Scott was a brilliant, but arrogant, elistest individual. He envisioned himself as to the manor born, and wanted nothing better than to be a european aristocrat. Eisenhower gives us very little of this perspective.<br />The narrative picks up a little for the Mexcian War chapters as the author has already published a book on this topic. Still, this biography is weak overall. For the length it spans, some 400 pages, the reader does not emerge with a great understanding of Winfield Scott. I would recommed a far better bio done recently by Timothy Johnson which is available from Amazon.com.<br />A comparative reading of this work will show the reader where this book is lacking. Since there are so few biographies on Scott out there, anything is better than nothing, but the reader will not get any great insight into Scott as the guiding genius behind the creation of the modern US army from reading this work alone.o Scott as the guiding genius behind the creation of the modern US army from reading this work alone.	2002-03-20
US	50552445	R2471APRM5R45Z	0700609148	740285875	Winfield Scott: The Quest for Military Glory	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Old Fuss and Feathers at His Best	This is a superlative bio of Scott, a man who spanned a considerable amount of time in the formulative years of the United States and its army. The events of the Civil War, and all its eccentric generals and characters have tended to overlook Scott, but his overall influence on the period can not be denied. Often eccentric, and certainly arrogant, Scott virtually created the modern US army. His regulations and drill manuels professionalized this nations army after its embarrassing and ameteur performance in the War of 1812. Scott, who fought prominently in that conflict at both Chipawa and Lundy's Lane drilled his brigade to a standard that no other American units reached in that war. He saw the need first hand to improve the army's standards and drill. Heavily influenced by French and European models, he standardized the US army and paved the ground for its development and vast improvement.<br />Scott was a vain and arrogant individual, he was not called Old Fuss and Feathers for nothing. Found of gaudy uniforms, and pomp and ceremony these outward ego trips belied his inner genius. Many US Presidents disliked Scotts arrogance and his virtual control of the army. Scott in turn looked upon the likes of Jackson, Harrison and Tyler as the Dark Ages in American politics!<br />Scott was an elitest, he was aristocratic in his outlook, and it is perhasps for this reason that he has often been overlooked in US History. To better understand the emergence of the US and the professionalism of its army, the need to understand Scott's contributions in that regard is paramount. The army he painstakingly created all through the first half of the 19th Century saw final fruition in the Mexican war of 1846. Here Scott's brilliant generalship and strategic outlook ensured his success against the Mexicans. The army he created not only could outmaneaver the enemy, but could outfight them as well. In every major action, the US Army inflicted two or three times the losses on the Mexicans, even while the latter were often defending in fixed positions. All the future greats of the Civil War, Grant, Lee, etc. acknowledged Scotts genius. The Mexican campaign was a model for all to follow. Sherman's march to the sea was certainly inspired by it. In order to have a greater undertanding of the Civil War, and antebellum American in general, we should not neglect the contributions of Winfield Scott.<br />Timothy Johnson's biography is probably one of the most satisfying bios one can ever read. Unlike most bios it does not get bogged down with excessive details pertaining to an individuals life. Johnson keeps Scotts life and career moving at a comfortable pace, with ample time for reflection on the times he lived in. We see the great general in all his strengths and weaknesses. Johnson accomplishes this in a leisurely 240 odd pages, far more satisfying than many bios we encounter today which feel the need to be twice this length most of the time. In short, I cannot recommend this work highly enough for its depiction of the man, and the times he lived in.ns, even while the latter were often defending in fixed positions. All the future greats of the Civil War, Grant, Lee, etc. acknowledged Scotts genius. The Mexican campaign was a model for all to follow. Sherman's march to the sea was certainly inspired by it. In order to have a greater undertanding of the Civil War, and antebellum American in general, we should not neglect the contributions of Winfield Scott. <br />Timothy Johnson's biography is probably one of the most satisfying bios one can ever read. Unlike most bios it does not get bogged down with excessive details pertaining to an individuals life. Johnson keeps Scotts life and career moving at a comfortable pace, with ample time for reflection on the times he lived in. We see the great general in all his strengths and weaknesses. Johnson accomplishes this in a leisurely 240 odd pages, far more satisfying than many bios we encounter today which feel the need to be twice this length most of the time. In short, I cannot recommend this work highly enough for its depiction of the man, and the times he lived in.	2002-03-15
US	50552445	RHUDIWVKD3X6H	0757906125	483433018	John Philip Sousa: American Phenomenon, Hardcover Book (Donald Hunsberger Wind Library)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The Life of John Philip Sousa	This is the definitive bio on J. P. Sousa.  The author has lovingly researched his topic, gathering in all sorts of details about the legendary March King.  It is sad that most Americans are only familiar with a handful of the great mans works.  What this book reveals about Sousa is the great variety of music that he composed.  Besides 136 excellent marches, he composed operettas, humouresques, and many other kinds of works.  Without a doubt Sousa is our most prolific composer, the sheer volume and qaulity of his works far surpassing all other American composers.  Yet the vast majortiy of his music is little heard these days.  It is true that Sousa's music appealed to an America of a different time.  His marches have all the power of an emerging young United States, just entering into the realm of international politics and industrial might at the turn of the century.  In these political correct times Sousa's music might be perceived as being too chauvanistically patriotic in outlook.  Hopefully in the post 9/11 world that we live in there is room for a revival of his music to bring back some of the nations pride in itself.  Mr. Bierley considers the Sousa band is the greatest of its kind in the world.  There is more than a little typical American tendency for overstatement here.  Certianly in the States in the latter part of the 19th century there were few rivals for Sousa's band.  But in Europe many fine military bands already existed and Sousa, though well received on his numerous tours abraod, faced much more critical acclaim.  As director of the US Marine Band, Sousa certainly transformed that musical organization into the top-notch band that it is today.  In fact, Sousa probably modelled his own band on the Garde Republicanne of Paris, but also any of the British or Prussian Guards bands could have served as inspiration as well. Mr. Bierley has brought together a number of fine photos of Sousa and his band, and highlights the many well known and famous musicians that served within the Sousa Band during its 40 year life-span.  The music of J P Sousa evokes a bygone era in the United States.  He was instrumental in both introducing and uplifting the music that was performed in this country.  We could certainly use his like again as current music standards and tastes have fallen fall below what they were even in Sousa's day.  Let us hope for a healthy re-birth of music and someone like Sousa to inspire us musically once more.ns that served within the Sousa Band during its 40 year life-span.  The music of J P Sousa evokes a bygone era in the United States.  He was instrumental in both introducing and uplifting the music that was performed in this country.  We could certainly use his like again as current music standards and tastes have fallen fall below what they were even in Sousa's day.  Let us hope for a healthy re-birth of music and someone like Sousa to inspire us musically once more.	2002-03-06
US	50552445	R1XI0K6CXAYL3I	0306806533	861990583	Amateurs, To Arms!: A Military History Of The War Of 1812 (Major Battles and Campaigns)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Elting shots from the hip for War of 1812	John Elting was reknowned for his up-front, no-nonsense style of military history writing.  In this book, which presents a military perpective of the War of 1812, Mr. Elting shoots from the hip in his own unique style, describing how silly America's preperations for the war actually were.<br /><br />Elting writes with a disdain for the meddling politician in the affairs of the military.  Cherished American presidential ideals like Jefferson and Madison come across as ameteurs and niave in this book.  For sure America did not plan adequately for this war,  and we payed a heavy price for it.  There are lessons to be learned here for today.<br /><br />Also, Mr. Elting's views on the Indians in the conflict do not come across as very Politically Correct.  Its time perhaps that we take a less picturesque view towards the Indians and see them in a more accurate light as Elting presents for us.Even the great Tecumseh, so often lauded these days as a tragic figure in the lost cause of the Indians, is given a sobbering account here.<br /><br />One of the many lessons the US needed to learn was that militia could not win the war. This assumption was a notion held over from the Revolution, which should have long dispelled that idea. In essense the country had to learn the lesson again that only a professional standing army could win battles. As a former US army colonel Elting certainly disdains how our foundinmg fathers treated the army.  In his descriptions of the war itself, Elting is decidely pro-American in his outlook.  This is not surprising from a former soldier of the US army.  His main complaint is that poor leadership and bad politics robbed the American soldier of victory in the war.  While there may be truth in this idea, he tends to dismiss what the British and Canadians accomplished in the war.  Elting glosses over the brilliance of Maj. Gen Issac Brock who saved Britsh Canada from being overrun in the first year of the conflict.  In several actions he seems to inflate British losses while deflating American ones.  While we can't blame Elting for this, the reader might do well to balance this book with other works on the subject.  Read this book for its amusing narrative style and in memory for the passing of Mr. Elting who was a noted military historian on the Napoleanic period.ses while deflating American ones.  While we can't blame Elting for this, the reader might do well to balance this book with other works on the subject.  Read this book for its amusing narrative style and in memory for the passing of Mr. Elting who was a noted military historian on the Napoleanic period.	2002-02-08
US	50552445	R27V53JV3PMFK8	0152017445	718415927	In the Shadow of the Alamo	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Alamo Aveneged!	This is a stirring story of a young Mexican peasant who is press-ganged into Santa Anna's army, as it prepares to march North into Texas to fight the Texan rebels at the Alamo and San Jacinto.  While historical fiction, this is still a worthy book.<br />The author has paid close attention to historical details, and has correctly listed Mexican generals, regiments and battalions. While intended for young adults, older readers will find this an entertaining read as well.  The story brings light upon the suffering and privations that the Mexican army endured in order to fight this campaign.  Seen in this perspective, the legendary Texas heros of the Alamo seem mere mortals, and our sympathies go out instead to the poor, bedraggled, Mexican soldiers.  While not one of the great armies of the day, the Mexican military suffered from chronic shortages, poor quality officers, and corruption.  Not the least of its problems was in the form of Santa Anna himself, who lead irrationally, often marching his soldiers into the ground with little concern for their well-being.  The Presidente's arrogance and vanity only compounded these problems.<br />At the Alamo 600 Mexican solders were sacreficed to his vanity. Had the great Napolean of the West waited a few more days for his siege guns to arrive, he could have reduced the Alamo Mission to ruins, and achieved his victory at far less cost.  This book points out the dismay the Mexican soldiers felt from his arrogant and detached leadership.  The humilating defeat at San Jacinto would end the forlorn Texas campaign and set the stage for the far greater conflict with the United States nearly a decade later, where Santa Anna would again lead his country to defeat.	2002-01-04
US	50552445	R186TO86K6CS2C	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Concise History of Civil War Era	This is a classic work chronicaling the events leading up to and including the Civil War.  While the hagglings about slavery and the Antebellum political world may seem boring at times, the reader is rewarded by persistence.  Mcpherson's writing is clear and lucid, and his perpective is balanced.  This is often hard to find in many of the classic works on the Civil War where bias often ruins the fine literary merit.  Mcpherson provides a fast moving narrative of the war itself which may be disappointing to those seeking more detailed military descriptions.  The purpose of this book is to provide a one volume history of the period, and in this respect, it succeeds most admirably.  This work will serve to provide the reader a wonderful introduction to the abundance of literature on this subject.  Much of that literature is redundant anyway.  Those who want a concise history the Civil War can't go wrong here.  The more classic works of Catton, Shelby, et al, await if the reader desires more wordy accounts.<br />Mcpherson gets the job done in under 1000 pages, covering the entire Antebellum period as well as the war itself.  The book ends just before Lincoln's assassintation and Recontruction.	2002-01-04
US	50552445	R2Y2HY1SEXVD9M	0803265948	357294483	The Seven Days: The Emergence of Lee	Books	4	4	9	N	N	7 Days Misses the Mark	This is a serviceable account of the 1862 Peninsular campaign.  Despite all the huge amont of literature on the Civil War (a lot of it redundant), there is surprisingly little on this pivotal aspect of the conflict. Mr. Dowdey writes in the talkative style of the old school historian.  The supposed strength of this book is its attention to geographical detail.  At times I found that the authors attention to roads and trails did not match the attention that should have been payed to the battles described.  Like most Civil War historians Dowdey does not get into much detail about the tactics employed by either side.  We never learn in what formations (or lack thereof) any of the troops were fighting in.  The battles themselves are frequently described in rather muddled fashion.  Dowdey frequently digresses in his descriptions, which further confuses the narrative flow.  As a Southener Dowdey pays most attention to Southern activities.  Thus we get all sorts of mini-bios on Confederate generals, but little on their Union counterparts.  The chronology of events is also a bit confused.  What Dowdey does well is provide a good overall description of the campaign, and he provides good insight into MacClellan's vague plans for his capture of Richmond.  Dowdey is a bit hard on Joe Johnston's style of command before Lee takes over.  Also the book points out well the complete lack of staff work on the part of Civil War armies in this period.  European observers oftern laughed at the slip-shod attempts to provide this esstential service.  None of the so-called great Civil War commanders ever appreciated this vital aspect of command.  Hence the reason why armies often blundered into each other, and why the battles of the 7 Days lacked any decisive results.  Dowdey's work is perhaps a bit dated, but is well written, and worth a casual read.	2001-11-20
US	50552445	R1MF9FZRQ85DK8	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Crucible Falls Short of being Deffintive work on this Subjec	This is an admirable effort to cover all aspects of the Seven Years War in North America.  Most readers are not familar with the size and scope of this world wide conflict in the 18th century which had far reahing results beyond the America's.  What the author has tried to do is tie in all the conflicts that were going on in Europe, the Carribean, and India, and relate them to events occuring in North America.  This is an admirable concept, and one which needs to be done in order to have a greater understanding of the period.  The author has also tried to carry the story beyond the French and Indian War and explain the gradual drift that lead toward eventual Revolution in Britain's colonies.  The author's main thesis is that for too long we have simply studied the events leading up to the American Revolution without considering the earlier period.  This is all laudable and good, but where the book falls short is in its military descriptions of the French and Indian War itself.  Many of the battles and campaigns described are scant in their details.  The author also spends too much time with rather dull Indian negotiations.  True these were important events, but their description is too long.  I would have preferred a more comprehensive account of the war itself, which has not been done in any recent works.  For a book comprising over 700 pages, one should emerge with a very complete account of the conflict.  The book would have done better with just the French and Indian War and perhaps Pontiac's rebellion.  There has already been alot written about colonial America working toward Revolution with Britain.  A glossary of British and French regiments which served during the conflict also would have been nice.  Notwithstanding these shortcomings, this is still an impressive historical work. The writting is clear and flows nicely.  But it is not the deffinitive work on the subject.  Those wanting that should still refer to Francis Parkman and his volumes on the French and Indian War.nd Indian War.	2001-11-20
US	50552445	R2CA7OKEJK4NW6	1893554333	130426091	The Kinder, Gentler Military: How Political Correctness Affects Our Ability to Win Wars	Books	5	11	14	N	N	How Political Correctness of the 1990s ruined the US Army	This is a book which has a lot of importance now.  With our armed forces engaged now in the unclear war on terorrism, the damage of the Clinton years may become apparent.  The 90s saw alot of politicians trying to conduct social experiments on the US armed services.  What Clinton, Pat Schroeder and others did by insisting that larger numbers of women be introduced into our services was almost criminal.  Now with women making up 11% of the military, the question of how to incorporate them is key.  An even greater concern is the demoralization that has taken place in the military as a result of enforeced quotas of women and the affect that has had on unit morale.  The US army, while hi-tech, is facing a serious morale problem.  With the prospect of dirty anti-torrorist fighting, the question of how our military will hold up is very crucial.  Many units in the army have become nothing more than maternity leave outfits as women become pregnant, leave their posts, expect the army to pick up the bill, and leave extra work for men to do in their units.  No wonder the services are demoralized now.  Added to this is an almost insane congress and army brass which insists on forcing women more into roles of which they are unsuited.  Many like Pat Schroeder, don't even want women in combat, they just want the restrictions lifted as a politcal statement.  The damage she and others have done to our army will only now become apparent as we enter into a new and dangerous kind of war. There is nothing wrong with women wanting to serve their country, and their abilities in the military machine are valuable, but combat is certainly not one of them.  Much praise for Ms. Guttman for having the courage to write this book and shame our generals and politicians.  Let us hope now with recent events that the dead-weight of Political Correctness is finally over in this country.	2001-11-08
US	50552445	R2SC50UG9MP256	0743412826	318175385	Spartacus (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Literary Art, but not History	To read this book is to discover the author's subtle means of literary deception.  There is more art here than fact.  The history of Spartacus is told from various viewpoints where we get glimspes of him as a person.  In reality he was not the saintly fugure that Fast would have us believe.  It seems that Spartacus was in the legions as a solder before deserting and becoming a Gladiator. So much for for the novels pretense of him being a long suffering slave of generations! While the Slave Revolt was hurtful to Rome, it did not present the crushing class warfare that the novel would have us believe.  In fact few native Latins joined the Slave Army, it being composed of slaves imported to Rome mostly.  That Rome was harsh and cruel towards its subjected peoples there can be little doubt, but the idealogical war of rebellion that the novel would have us believe seems doubtful.<br />Spartacus was not the invincible paragon of virtue that Mr. Fast<br />presents.  In fact he won battles as well as lost them in a series of campaigns that stretched the length of Italy for almost 4 years.  At one point Spartacus might have had an opportunity to take Rome itself, but like Hannibal centuries before, he hesitated.  As for his invincible generalship and army, while the slaves certainly administered numerous sharp reverses to Rome, they were not unbeatable.  In the final battle Crassus seems to have destroyed over 60,000 of them.  So much for the invincible Slave Army!  This book is a work of literary art, the writing is compelling, if a bit dogmatic at times.  The depiction of Rome as a corrupt, souless place, perhaps accurate, but administered in heavy doses.  The Roman aristocracy was no doubt riddled by homosexulity which certainly marked its decadence for sure.  Fast seems to condemn it, which might offend some in these Politically Correct times.  The book is a worthwhile read if balanced with some good histories on the subject.  Taken alone, along with the impressive movie, one would be provided with a very imperfect picture indeed!one would be provided with a very imperfect picture indeed!	2001-10-02
US	50552445	RIMYO1GR76UKN	0553380435	740930866	A Close Run Thing: A Novel of Wellington's Army of 1815	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hurrah for the Light Dragoons!	Mr. Mallinson dedicates his book, appropriately to the Light Dragoons, formally the 13th/18th and 15th/19th Hussars.  These fine old regiments, like so many in the British Army today, are no more, and live on in truncated form.  Mallinson pays tribute to them in his book.  Cornet Hervey is a different kind of hero. Those use to the head-bashing logic of Sharpe and co. may find this book a bit of a challenge.  I must confess I did at first, but what we have here is a different perspective of the time, and perhaps a somewhat more realistic one.  Mallinson's character is educated, and accomplishes more with brains than brawn, though he does not lack in his saber skills, and has a rash temper to boot!<br />Still, we are not dealing with another Sharpe here, and Mallinson<br />attempts to provide a portrait of the time as well.  The middle section where the regiment is stationed in Ireland was particularly well done, as it shows how difficult the transition must be for soldiers to become policemen.  Also readers can see how difficult the Irish posting was for British soldiers then, as it is now.  Hervey is not a rake like Sharpe, and he must agonize before declaring his love for the woman he desires.  The depiction of Waterloo was interesting as well, since Mallinson places Hervey on the left flank of the battlefield, the part of the battle often least discussed, because it lacked the glamor of Hugamont and Le Haie Sainte positions.  But this flank was extremely important to Wellington, as the arrival of the Prussians were crucial to the success of the battle.  Hervery expereinces the trials and tribulations of awaiting the slow moving Prussians, and must attemept to effectively liason with them as they arrive.  Perhaps the characters are a little less vibrant, and the writing a bit slow at times, but this series has promise.  Hervey will need to explore his career in the 19th Century British Empire, and will therefore provide the reader with an interesting transition from the conventional warfare of the Napoleanic period, to the smaller affais of the Empire.  Perhaps we might get the Sikh Wars in a future installment as well!he conventional warfare of the Napoleanic period, to the smaller affais of the Empire.  Perhaps we might get the Sikh Wars in a future installment as well!	2001-08-31
US	50552445	R2QJ6ADNXA1PZG	0553380435	740930866	A Close Run Thing: A Novel of Wellington's Army of 1815	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hurrah for the Light Dragoons!	Mr. Mallinson dedicates his book, appropriately to the Light Dragoons, formally the 13th/18th and 15th/19th Hussars.  These fine old regiments, like so many in the British Army today, are no more, and live on in truncated form.  Mallinson pays tribute to them in his book.  Cornet Hervey is a different kind of hero. Those use to the head-bashing logic of Sharpe and co. may find this book a bit of a challenge.  I must confess I did at first, but what we have here is a different perspective of the time, and perhaps a somewhat more realistic one.  Mallinson's character is educated, and accomplishes more with brains than brawn, though he does not lack in his saber skills, and has a rash temper to boot!<BR>Still, we are not dealing with another Sharpe here, and Mallinson<BR>attempts to provide a portrait of the time as well.  The middle section where the regiment is stationed in Ireland was particularly well done, as it shows how difficult the transition must be for soldiers to become policemen.  Also readers can see how difficult the Irish posting was for British soldiers then, as it is now.  Hervey is not a rake like Sharpe, and he must agonize before declaring his love for the woman he desires.  The depiction of Waterloo was interesting as well, since Mallinson places Hervey on the left flank of the battlefield, the part of the battle often least discussed, because it lacked the glamor of Hugamont and Le Haie Sainte positions.  But this flank was extremely important to Wellington, as the arrival of the Prussians were crucial to the success of the battle.  Hervery expereinces the trials and tribulations of awaiting the slow moving Prussians, and must attemept to effectively liason with them as they arrive.  Perhaps the characters are a little less vibrant, and the writing a bit slow at times, but this series has promise.  Hervey will need to explore his career in the 19th Century British Empire, and will therefore provide the reader with an interesting transition from the conventional warfare of the Napoleanic period, to the smaller affais of the Empire.  Perhaps we might get the Sikh Wars in a future installment as well!	2001-08-31
US	50552445	R2GND17MTDQ5LY	1885119275	156582774	With Musket, Cannon And Sword: Battle Tactics Of Napoleon And His Enemies	Books	5	12	20	N	N	A Fresh Perspective of Napoleanic Conflict	I was privileged to to provide Mr. Noseworthy some research for this book, and therefor feel honored to be associated with it.  Notwithstanding my own bias, this is still an impressive work which gives a perspective on the Napoleanic conflict which is unsurpassed.  For far too long we have been influenced by the generalist view of the tactics and formations employed then.  Even major historians like Chandler and Elting while providing great overall perspective of the period, are very scanty when it comes to describing how troops actually fought back then.  This book provides a lot of answers and has a nuts and bolts perspective which is fascinating. Mr. Noseworthy's expalnation of how the aristocracy of the 18th Century limited the employment of non-linerar tactics in the French and other armies goes a long way toward explaining how the French were able to employ them in the Napoleanaic period.  Here we see that the tactics of the French Revolution and Napoleanic periods did not simply fall out of the sky, but were already established principals whose time had finally come.  Mr. Noseworthy discusses in detail how French formations fought and delivered fire, and dispels a lot of myths about the French army.  Contrary to popular opinion, the French fought in a variety of formations besides column, and were not adverse to employing lines.  Reference is made to how the British fought in this period, and we learn it was not platoon fire that defeated the French in Spain and Waterloo, but point blank vollies followed by spirited bayonet charges.  The book quotes alot from primary sources, many of them seldem referred too before, even by major researchers in the field.  This book goes a long way toward re-evaluating how we should understand Napoleanic Warfare, and as such is bound to ruffle a few feathers as far as popular established views are concerned. Mr. Noseworthy's writing is clear, subtle, and to the point.  There is seldem a paragraph that does not contain some interesting fact. I look forward to a work on the US Civil War period where countless myths and falsehoods about the formations employed in that war could be addressed in the same logical fashion. It was a priviledge to be associated with this book, and look forward to do doing so again if the occasion arises.  Buy this book wherever you can find it!teresting fact. I look forward to a work on the US Civil War period where countless myths and falsehoods about the formations employed in that war could be addressed in the same logical fashion. It was a priviledge to be associated with this book, and look forward to do doing so again if the occasion arises.  Buy this book wherever you can find it!	2001-02-07
US	50552445	R1C4TNY27UNVR7	0900075643	502669815	The Recollections of Rifleman Harris: As Told to Henry Curling	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Harris is the inspiration for Sharpe	This book is one of the classic Peninsular War recollections of the period.  Harris was a devil-me-care lad of the English shires, who was first chosen by lot to join the English militia in 1806.  Once in Ireland he becomes enamored of the green-jacketed 95th Rifles, Britian's new experimental Rifle corps, and decides to join them as a volunteer.  The memoirs of Harris and many others like him were no doubt the inspiration for Bernard Cornwall's now famous &quot;Sharpe&quot; series.  But Harris's work is certainly worth reading for its own merit, as it provides a vivid impression of what it was like to be a British soldier in the Napoleanic period.  Unlike many of the memoirs of his compatriots, Harris only served for a brief time.  He experinced Britian's initial efforts to support Spain in her rebellion against napolanic France's domination.  As part of that early expedition, harris sees action at Rolica and Vimero (1808), and partakes in the grim retreat to Coruna (1809).  He is thus privy only to the initial stages of what would become the Peninsular War in Spain (1808-1814)  Harris's recolllections are vivid, but at times confused and lack chronology.  This is reflective of the fact that he was a common ranker, and his level of education was somewhat less than many officiers.  This does not detract from the value of his work; for Harris is in fact an amusing writer with an adroit sense of humor.  He recollects his experinces as they come to mind, and the reader often feels as though he is seated right next to him relaying his stories as they come to mind.  At times this can be confusing, and some knowledge of the period certainly helps in understanding the merits of this work. Christopher Hibbert has provided some valuable notes both in the introduction and within the body of the work, which adds greatly to it.  Modern readers will certainly find Harris worthwhile, and  with the recent interest sparked by the &quot;Sharpe series&quot;, will see how the real thing compares to the fictionalized character.  Sharpe is most certainly part Harris, and the reader also gets an understaning  of the 95th regiment as well.  Worth having.ng compares to the fictionalized character.  Sharpe is most certainly part Harris, and the reader also gets an understaning  of the 95th regiment as well.  Worth having.	2001-01-19
US	50552445	R3M7FKNX2F9IVZ	0060194243	137888326	Sharpe's Fortress: India 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #3)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Sharpe marches on.	The third in Cornwall's pre-series, &quot;Sharpe's Fortress&quot; finds Richard Sharpe back in India on his final adventure there before returning to take up arms against the French in Spain.  With over 15 novels in this series, Sharpe may be starting to get a little worn, but Cornwall's compelling writing and genius for historical detail, espcially in military matters, always makes every Sharpe novel a worthwhile and interesting read.  After Wellsely's (later Duke of Wellington)  astonishing victory at Assaye, the remnants of the Mahratta confederation fell back upon their supposedly inpregnible fortress at Gawilghur.  The interesting thing about Cornwall is that he brings to life often obscure aspects of military history during the Napoleanic period.  While certainly a few have heard of Sir Arthur's great victory at Assaye in 1803, the subsequent siege of the Mahratta hill fortress has generally been religated as a footnote in the establishment of the British empire in India.  Cornwall shows that despite eventual British triumph, the siege was no cake walk for them.  The short-work that the assulting British troops finally made of the defending Indian garrison may offend the Politically Correct today.  And yes, this is a book about run down red-coats like Richard Sharpe, and is not meant to tell the story from the perspective of the Mahratta, or Indians in general. Cornwall revels in the persona of the underdog British redcoat, that down-trodden creature of Britains pre-industrial slums, of which Richard Sharpe is a prime example.  While Sharpe does come across as almost super-human in this book, and indeed the entire series, his character personifies the tough, gritty determination of the British soldier in this period.  There is a reason why a handful of red-coats conquered India, and while this may offend our sensibilities today, we can gain from understanding how and by whom it was accomplished.  India as a nation did not exist in 1800, and the various petty states that existed were never able to present a united front against the small British presence there.  A handful of &quot;Sharpes&quot; under brilliant leadership were able to conquer an entire continent.  As Europeans, we should not be ashamed of this, and should rather endeavor to understand how it came to happan in the first place.  Cornwall's historical fiction provides a glimpse as to how this was done, by showing the various personalities and characters involved, and by weaving fiction with fact, we gain an understanding of long forgotton battlefields in distant and exotic lands.  Cornwall's writing is graphic and violent at times, but no one ever said the early 19th century was ever a gentle and nice place to live!  The novels of Jane Austen provide a false perspective in this regard. Sharpe and those like him were considered animals by polite society, yet their blood and sweat made Britain an empire.  Those with politically correct views, may be offended, but might just learn something in the process.  Sharpe continues to march on, providing entertainment and high adventure, as well as fine historical detail. What better combination can one ask for!tates that existed were never able to present a united front against the small British presence there.  A handful of &quot;Sharpes&quot; under brilliant leadership were able to conquer an entire continent.  As Europeans, we should not be ashamed of this, and should rather endeavor to understand how it came to happan in the first place.  Cornwall's historical fiction provides a glimpse as to how this was done, by showing the various personalities and characters involved, and by weaving fiction with fact, we gain an understanding of long forgotton battlefields in distant and exotic lands.  Cornwall's writing is graphic and violent at times, but no one ever said the early 19th century was ever a gentle and nice place to live!  The novels of Jane Austen provide a false perspective in this regard. Sharpe and those like him were considered animals by polite society, yet their blood and sweat made Britain an empire.  Those with politically correct views, may be offended, but might just learn something in the process.  Sharpe continues to march on, providing entertainment and high adventure, as well as fine historical detail. What better combination can one ask for!	2001-01-05
US	50552445	RSCK5DQMK3OQD	0060951974	771081045	Sharpe's Triumph: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Assaye, September 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sharpe Triumphs again	This is a sublime piece of historical fiction.  We are taken back to the early days of Sharpe's adventursom career, when he was a lowly Sarjeant in the 33rd Foot (West Riddings) Aspiring to higher spheres of endeavor, Sharpe as usual must confront head-on the aristocratic and stilted system of promotion then existant in the British army.  That system is personified in the character of Sir Arthur Wellsley.  Cornwall's depiction of Sir Arthur, seems an astonishingly accurate one.  Wellsley was cold, arrogant, and extremly compitent.  The battle of Assaye (1803) which smashed the Mahratta confederation and paved the way for ultimate British conquest of India, was one of the Duke's most inspired and risky battles. He even rated it higher than Waterloo, and one is apt to almost agree with his opinion.  As usual, Cornwall's depiction of napoleanic fighting is flawless. His description of Assaye is unsurpassed.  Here sir Arthur confidantly lead his small army of 5,000 British and Seapoy troops against the Mahratta mass of over 40,000 and 100 guns.  The advance of the 78th Highlanders, and their endurment of the horrific Mahratta bombardment must stand as one of the great epic infantry assults of the entire period.  The two Scottish regiments in Sir Arthur's command, the 74th and 78th Highlanders, won the campaign for him, and Cornwall does not fail to do them justice in this long forgotton saga.  Sir Arthur's victory at Assaye should dispel the notion that European armies defeated their colonial opponets by means soley of superior technology.  Sheer determination, tactical brilliance, and iron discipline won the day for the British against an Indian opponet who was as well equipped as they, and far more numerous.  Cornwall brilliantly depicts all these elements while giving us a colorful collection of characters, including a youthful Sharpe who must prove himself to become what he is later in the series.	2001-01-05
US	50552445	R27IISPZZSYWCG	0061012645	79009532	Redcoat	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Redcoat provides British Perspective	Redcoat is a fine work of historical fiction on the American Revolution as seen from the British perspective.  The ingredients of Cornwall's writing  are all here.  Characters are standard fair for him, with some clever  deviations.  Cornwall seems to revel in graphic, bloody descriptions of  fighting, whether a battle or a fight to the death between two  protagonists.  At times I find this penchant for violence threatens to  undermine the fine historical research that goes into his works.  The main  stength of this novel lies in its fine depiction of General Howe's 1777  Philadelphia campaign.  The description of the British night attack at  Paoli's Tavern and the rebel counter-attack and near success at Germantown  are first-rate, and alone worth reading. While some of the characters  and  plot are standard Cornwall creations, traceable to his ever popular Sharpe  series with predictable villins, confused heros, and shattered notions of  honor, the reader can still get a very balanced view of what motivated both  sides in this conflcit.  Rebel and Loyalist outlooks are clearly expressed  through the characters.  The book delivers a good story, slow at times, but  reflective of the nature of the war itself, and those who were pursueing  it.  There are some clever character developments here, with interesting  role reversals which provide for surprise.  If the reader does not mind  Cornwall's  often graphic, bloodletting descriptions, he will find much of  merit here.  This is a good novel on the American Revolution, with rich  historical detail and some interesting plot.	2000-08-30
US	50552445	R2GN7EKPDB8DWL	0844663638	669310028	Bonnie Dundee	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Bonnie Book!	This is a wonderful story of the first Jacobite rising of 1689 against  William of Orange, newly crowned King of England.  John of Claverhouse  (Bonnie Dundee) was a staunch supporter of King James, who was deposed in  favor of William by parliament.  The story is told from the perspective of  Hugh Harriot, a young lad who soon becomes a devoted follower of Dundee.  While intended as a children's or young adult book, this is a rich and  detailed account suitable for any age group.  Young readers might find it  challenging, as the scots brogue of many of the characters is hard to  follow at times.  Nonetheless, this is a fascinating look  at late 17th  centruy Scotland and the origins of the Jackobite movement which would  later see full fruition in the disasterous rising of 1745 under Bonnie  Prince Charlie.  John of Claverhouse who became Viscount Dundee by order of  King James for his service against the disruptive religeous group known as  the Covenenters, is an inspiring Scottish hero, a far greater man of honor  and ability than either William Wallace or the rogue Rob Roy in the opinion  of this reviewer.  But in comparison to the other two he is little known.  Dundee was an aristocrat who championed the cause of the Stewarts, and this  may account for his being less known.  His career was also tragically cut  short at the famous battle of Killiecrankie in 1689 where Bonnie Dundee and  his Highland army routed the government forces, but sacreficed his life in  the process.  With his death the Stewart cause was doomed in Scotland, and  the rebellion was over almost as soon as it started.  The reader will learn  about these inspiring events through the eyes of the protagonist, Hugh, who  is portrayed as one of Bonnie Dundees devoted followers.  Sutcliff's  research and skill of telling a story long forgotten are to be commended.  This reviewer highly recommends this book either for sophisicated young  readers, or adults who enjoy good historical fiction.  You can see where  the old famous scots tune &quot;Bonnie Dundee&quot; came from by reading  this fine work.an see where  the old famous scots tune &quot;Bonnie Dundee&quot; came from by reading  this fine work.	2000-08-23
US	50552445	R169KPTW3HY8X	0140116206	862725044	The Last Impresario: The Life, Times, and Legacy of Sol Hurok	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Hurok and British Pomp and Ceremony	I found it disappointing that a bio on Hurok did not contain more about one of Sol's most interesting contributions.  In the early 1950s Sol Hurok went to the Edinburgh International festival where he saw the world famous  Edinburgh Military tattoo.  In this martial spectacle is a parade of  scottish regimental bands and massed pipes and drums along with other  British army bands.  With Edinburgh Castle as a backdrop to the show, Hurok  was duely impressed. With an eye for spectacles and for showcasing new and  different kinds of talent, Hurok wondered how such a show would fair in the  US.  He decided to take a chance, and in the fall of 1955 booked a coast to  coast USA tour of the regimental band and massed pipes and drum of the  Scots Guards.  Everyone thought it was &quot;Hurok's Folly&quot; that a  bagpipe based show would never go in 1950s America.  But Hurok had a sixth  sense for knowing what audiences might like and he gambled his reputation  on the venture.  To everyone's amazement the show was a big hit.  Across  the country the Scots Guards were hailed as the goodwill ambassadors of  Britian.  Audiences thrilled to the martial music, the massed pipes and  drums, the authentic Highland Dancing, and the intricate marching and  counter marching.  Nothing like this had been seen in north America before  and people loved it.  Sol Hurok had established the British regimental band  tour, and each year after he brought over several British bands on tour.  The Scots Guards returned, and in subsequent years the Black Watch, the  Royal Highland Fusiliers and Coldstream Guards, among others, were brought  on tour, each recieving great Appluase.  Hurok established a tradition that  continues to this day,  Yet, this is scarcely mentioned in this bio of him.  Although perhaps not as well known as his opera and ballet shows, still I  believe this venture, which was so typical of Hurok's style and judegment,  should have received better coverage in this book.  It is unfortunate that  it did not.  Still, this is a worthy bio of the man who deserves a lot of  credit for artisitic development in this country.nfortunate that  it did not.  Still, this is a worthy bio of the man who deserves a lot of  credit for artisitic development in this country.	2000-03-23
