US	50571280	RPMV9I1ELF2KM	078796896X	555175538	The Wisdom Way of Knowing: Reclaiming An Ancient Tradition to Awaken the Heart	Books	5	81	87	N	N	short but terrific	If you are a student of the Gnosis and want to learn more about it, and about mysticism within the Western Wisdom traditions, this is as good a place to start as anything. Unlike some other literature of this kind of subject, it is clear, lucid and very readable. The author is an ordained Episcopal priest, but esoteric Christianity is to her I believe a piece of a bigger puzzle, and a frame of reference in particular. She quotes a bit from other enlightened authors, past and present, such as Jakob Boehme. There is also an excellent recommended reading list for further study.<br />The book is short but covers a great deal of ground in little time, so kudos here for the editing.<br />Recommended with enthusiasm.	2004-02-07
US	50571280	R8PL44WZROVCA	0151003467	131302322	Harvests of Joy: How the Good Life Became Great Business	Books	3	6	10	N	N	the book's OK	I share some of the criticisms of other contributors on Amazon who have given the book the lowest possible rating. It is wordy, repetitive, and poorly edited. The author himself revealed that he is not a great lover of books and his literary style indicates it. Granted, it is worthwhile to have this book, in spite of its technical faults, for the sake of having access and insight to the history of the man who virtually pioneered the art of making fine wine in Napa. While I found several passages irritating to read, I could not put the book down. The chapter describing the inception of Opus One with the Baron is great stuff. <br />Early on the author stated his intention to make state-of-the-art Cabernet Sauvignon, Pinot Noir, Chardonnay and Johannisberg Riesling. As the text progresses the author trumpets the region's many successes in the first three noble varietals, and adds the favourable results obtained with Sauvignon Blanc and Merlot. He talks about his many trips to Bordeaux, Burgundy, Tuscany, Spain, and the Mosel, to learn how the established top estates operate. Inexplicably, he makes no effort to explain what happened in his quest to make fine Riesling. I find that very surprising in light of his comment late in the book that he drinks a lot more Sauvignon/Fume Blanc than Chardonnay.<br />The commentary provided by his sons and his second wife is very well presented, more tightly focused and cohesive than the rest of the book. <br />On a personal note I was glad he mentioned the Bible's approval of wine consumption; however, he should also have emphasized consumption in moderation (see Ecclesiastes 5).<br />The description of the Robert Mondavi Winery in Oakville CA was needless to say entertaining. The author claims half a million visitors a year, and I can assert the reasonableness of this claim based on having seen it very busy during a very rainy Sunday while many of the other wineries in the area had no visitors at all. It's most definitely worth a visit, if you have a designated driver.<br />This book is recommended with reservations for the unique experience it offers.	2002-06-01
US	50571280	R2C77S3OSB5H28	092996201X	531767378	The Heavyhands Walking Book	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	an update	Five months after starting the Heavyhands program again, I've lost 36 pounds, converted another 5 to 10+ pounds from body fat to lean muscle, lost 7&quot; off the waist, and have normal blood pressure (it was about 155 over 100 last summer), without having taken any medication. Frankly it feels like a new lease on life. It's nice to be able to wear some clothes that haven't fit for years. The workouts continue to gain in intensity and there have been no injuries at all for the last several weeks. The weather has been wet, icy at times, dark and cold, and exercising indoors has been the only viable option.<br />I remain convinced that this is the best program for weight loss and improvement in overall physical fitness.	2002-01-27
US	50571280	R1MP864OQG8X25	092996201X	531767378	The Heavyhands Walking Book	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	some more information	I hope readers will not object to an additional posting on this book.<br />The 5-minute fitness test recommended by the author, for all intents and purposes, consists of walking for 5 minutes at 120 strides per minute while pumping 1-pound handweights to what he describes as Level 2; ie, from the hand's position when the arm is extended down, two feet up from there - for many people around the shoulder joint - and back. Each arm is doing 60 upswings and downswings per minute in the same pace as the legs. After 5 full minutes, immediately take your pulse for 6 seconds, and multiply the rate by 10. In the author's view, less than 90 is excellent, 90 to 110 is good, 110 to 130 is low average, 130 to 150 is fair, and over 150 is poor. Apart from giving a yardstick to measure fitness level, it helps to decide what sort of exercise intensity is appropriate, depending on how comfortable or uncomfortable the test was. I finally tried this test today and scored 110, without breaking a sweat.<br />It is relatively easy to get into this exercise regimen for the first time, and as I found hard the hard way, it is not hard to pick it up again after getting sick. I was unable to work out for 10 days due to a cold and sinus infection, after 3 days I was able to resume exercise at the same intensity. I felt a little sore only the first day. The author is strongly opposed to attempting heavy aerobic exercise during illness, and I agree with him.<br />Dr. Schwartz recommends working out in time with your favourite music; he's tried just about everything from reggae to Vivaldi with success. I have been working out indoors due to heavy rain and played through over 3 sessions a complete performance of Strauss' Der Rosenkavalier on DVD. Apart from enjoying an outstanding musical experience, the waltz rhythms proved to be ideal accompaniment.<br />This program also encourages personal experimentation; I have added some routines that are not in his book and revised some of them to suit mypreferences. Over the last several weeks I have not done exactly the same workout twice, and have been comfortably adding variety, duration and intensity without injury. Some exercises which I could not do at the beginning - such as the fold in the bellyaerobics - are manageable now. Combined with a low-fat diet, and the steady increase in intensity, I am now losing weight rapidly. My wife is also trying some of these routines and she claims to be feeling better. She is definitely looking better.<br />At the risk of repetition, on page 5 the author in a typically bold graphic lists all of his program's advantages, being: most varied aerobics, fewer injuries, ideal for any age, promotes strength, feels easier, lowers the heart rate, fun movement, can be done indoors or out, inexpensive [hell it's dirt cheap by today's standards], enhances flexibility, super sports trainer, easy for beginners, convenient and portable, more total exercise, swiftest calorie loser, produces sculpted look, and trains more muscles. I concur from experience all of the foregoing except for the sports training, and would add that it reduces stress by providing a healthy outlet for nervous energy, helps you sleep better, aids in digestion and elimination (due to increases in metabolism), makes you look and feel younger, increases self-confidence, and gives you an extraordinary amount of energy to make every other activity easier and often faster. In fact, the time invested in this exercise is recovered by the gains made the rest of the day.<br />I cannot state strongly enough that anyone who is interested in this form of exercise should try it, with the prior approval of a physician. It may well add years to your life and will definitely add life to your years. The author completed this book at age 65 in 1990 and remains 11 years later in magnificent shape.	2001-11-21
US	50571280	R3VWQBDX2Y0VY4	092996201X	531767378	The Heavyhands Walking Book	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	some afterthoughts	I hope the reader will not object to my presenting some additional commentary on this book. Roughly, the book consists of an introduction to the system, its justification, the fitness-level test, descriptions of arm strokes, leg strides, back-emphasis movements, medleys, indoor suggestions; then applications for fast walking, running, and extra strength; then walk dancing, cross training for sports, abdominal-emphasis, weight control, group format walking, techniques for those over 50, and several appendices. The author uses a great deal of statistical data and tables to show how many METs (a measure of metabolic energy, with 1 MET equalling the effort expended while resting or around 3.5ml of oxygen uptake per kilogram of weight per minute) are used depending upon the exercise and how it is done. He claims that many who use his system successfully become capable in a few months of exercising at 10 to 12 METs, which equals the aerobic effort of running 6mph and 8mph respectively. These METs are in turn converted to calorie consumption per minute. Many of these exercises are capable of burning 1,000+ calories per hour, in your own home. Some work rates equal or exceed 20 METs. <br />The author crams a lot of information into sidebars and graphs, which become nearly as substantial as the main text. In spite of the highly technical nature of his data, his book is very readable.<br />At the risk of oversimplification, the author's premise is that typical aerobic exercise generates 70% to 90% of calorie consumption from the use of specific muscles, normally in the lower torso (running being the most obvious example), which contributes to: frequent injury from overuse of those muscles and the joints which support them; boredom from doing the same thing over and over again; and, limited increases in overall fitness level to the entire body. Dr. Schwartz feels that working out with 4 limbs instead of 2 aerobically at a more moderate pace, with a more equitable distributionof work between them, results in higher overall workloads, fewer injuries, more variety, better crosstraining for other activities (since every muscle group becomes work-capable), faster weight loss for those who need it, and more enjoyment.<br />To give an example from my own experience, I have done what he calls double ski poling (DSP), using 3-pound weights, in a 4-step motion with both arms starting fully extended up, then going backwards in a 270 degree arc (where they are pointing straight behind you), while leaning forward and moderately bending the knees, then all the way back up again, continuously. Needless to say this has to be done at first with small weights and slowly, to avoid lower back strain. This is a terrific routine for the quads and also helps the back, abdominals and many other groups. Thanks to this exercise, I've been able to incorporate some jogging in place with weighted lateral arm flings at the same time in my heavyhands workouts. <br />It is the author's opinion that his system offers the best combination, for those who desire it, of strength, muscle-endurance, flexibility and aerobic capacity. Furthermore, trained Heavyhanders can match or exceed the aerobic capacities of distance runners, racewalkers, or cross-country skiers. Best of all, it can be done at modest expense. If you want an intense aerobic workout and to get reasonably strong at the same time, and don't have the time or inclination to go to the gym, don't want to buy expensive exercise equipment, and don't want to exercise outdoors due to inclement weather (where I live, it's raining most of the winter), this is pretty hard to beat.	2001-11-06
US	50571280	R36DQXYAI7DL2H	1566562236	692879219	A Traveller's Wine Guide to Germany (Traveller's Wine Guides)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	ideally suited for the traveller	This book should not be relied upon for vintage information, top recommended producers, or matching various styles of wine with food. I think the author is assuming the reader is familiar with German wine, and knows what he or she likes, and writes to offer directions on how to find many estates (major and otherwise) in every wine-producing region of the country. There is detailed highway information too, along with addresses, telephone and fax numbers, hours of operation, and suggestions on whether or not knowledge of German is an issue. The photography is excellent, and every region, including Ahr and the Mittelrhein, gets comprehensive treatment, so that wherever one might be travelling to Germany, the author will give the most local data. It's quite a unique book and very enjoyable to read. Highly recommended.	2001-11-01
US	50571280	RN3SBTW8OWNJU	0571149537	895134246	The Wines of Alsace (Faber Books on Wine)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	the book is dated but very well written	For Alsace wine enthusiasts this is a wonderful read, and has just about all the pertinent facts about the region, among them all the famous and less well known varietals, all the major producers, the villages,  the grand cru vinyards complete with maps, technical information about the Vendanges Tardive and Selection de Grains Noble and how they compare to the German QmP designations, extensive tasting notes, and a detailed vintage chart up to 1992. Needless to say a new edition with more recent vintages would be very welcome.There is over 570 pages of detailed information, including a linguistic analysis. The author wears his considerable scholarship lightly and his sense of humor is used judiciously. Recommended with enthusiasm.	2001-10-21
US	50571280	R14N5IUYY6F7OM	0969677316	414947287	The Great Dumbbell Handbook: The Quick Reference Guide to Dumbbell Exercises	Books	5	122	126	N	N	a superb introduction to dumbbell strength training	For the person who wants to get back into shape and has neither the time, budget, nor inclination to go to the local gym, but wants to do something at home, this book cannot be too strongly recommended. It is especially suited for novices and is full of excellent information and suggestions. I tried the author's advice to start with 2 1/2 pound weights in each hand and am now up to 10 pounds each after about 5 weeks. I have had no injuries, excessive soreness or fatigue or any other problems. His recommendations on duration, pacing, lifting techniques, frequency and intensity are very sensible. If you follow his program, you have a very good chance of excellent results. He rightly points out that any exercise program should have the prior input of a physician.	2001-10-21
US	50571280	RBCFQC7VYKO5G	092996201X	531767378	The Heavyhands Walking Book	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	it's excellent	For those who love fitness walking but want to go for a more strenuous workout, this is well worth a try. He explains in precise detail the mechanics of his system of panaerobics, which is designed to exercise all muscle groups at the same time, while providing thorough cardiovascular benefits. For those who (like myself) have a tough time with the mechanics of racewalking, and can't walk much beyond 4 miles per hour, this additional regimen can take you to a higher plateau of fitness. When I was doing this a few years ago (before my daughter was born), it helped reduce my pulse to the high 40s. I'm back at it again, and have thus far reduced my pulse from 87 to 60. It has also helped to reduce my systolic and diastolic blood pressure by 10 points each,  to lose 24 pounds in 3 months, and to take 5 inches off the waist. It takes a bit of getting used to, and like any other form of strength/muscle resistance training should be used gradually. Just imagine walking briskly and pushing 2 1/2 lb. hand weights up and down from shoulder height to above your head with your arms fully extended (like engine pistons at work) for 5 minutes, then continuing to walk using 6 or 7 successive and varying movements. You achieve high-intensity exercise with low weights in a very efficient amount of time. (...)<br />Apart from all that the author's writing style is very readable. The book has several diagrams to show exactly how the system works. The author was 65 at the time of publication and had a pulse of 35 and superior conditioning by any standard. There is a full chapter devoted to working out indoors with these exercises, which offers an advantage over conventional walking which is dependent upon weather to some extent. The author claims to be able to keep in excellent shape while watching TV in his hotel room when on vacation. I tried a session of indoor medley exercises due to a mild foot sprain which made normal walking too uncomfortable. Including some weighted punch and kicks, lateral flings, high pump and walk on the spot, cross punching, swooping, knee dipping, double ski poling, some modified ab crunches, and some forehand to backhand figure eight arm swings, 55 minutes was absolutely exhausting. The author does not recommend workouts of that length at first - more like 15 minutes - but this continuous varied movement gives every muscle group some work and an intense aerobic workout. I've been burning close to 1,000 calories per hour. It was at least as strenuous as the Level 2 weighted walking, without causing further foot injury. Once you get comfortable with this system, you can modify it to suit your preferences and needs. <br />This book is highly recommended, although as the author points out at the start, anyone wanting to try it should check with their physician first as a precaution. I checked with two of them and both gave the fitness program their professional approval; and furthermore, they are very satisfied with the results obtained thus far.	2001-09-09
US	50571280	R909GRB4S1NWQ	0679737774	883980851	Walking: A Complete Guide to the Complete Exercise	Books	4	15	15	N	N	a good book but the editing could have been better	For anyone who is interested in pursuing a walking program to lose weight and get back in good cardiovascular condition this would be a good place to start. I do not share the author's view that aerobic/fitness walking is the complete exercise and the only exercise a person needs; it is my own opinion that complete fitness should have a balance of cardiovascular exercise, some strength/muscle resistance training, and flexibility. I would argue the panaerobic/heavyhands walking program advocated by Dr. Leonard Schwartz might be the best of all of the above, but for those who are starting out from a very sedentary lifestyle combined with being overweight, the regimen advocated by Casey Meyers could arguably be a better way to go, at least in the short and medium term. I wholeheartedly agree with the author that walking at a high level is as good or better than running at speeds above 5mph and is an excellent cross training exercise for almost any athlete, with less stress on the body and risk of injuries. He also I think rightly points out that people are living a more sedentary life style in recent years which has contributed to an increase in heart problems and a reduction in life expectancy; these health risks can be safely, conveniently and economically addressed by instituting a moderate walking regimen. The recommendations on intensity and duration, to prevent or minimize risk of injury, are very sensible. He is also right in noting that regular brisk walking reduces stress, increases energy, improves appearance, raises metabolism, burns calories, and makes you feel better. I would add (in case he didn't) that it aids digestion. I walk 45 to 60 minutes almost every morning and still feel good at the end of the day.<BR>My other concern is that the author tends to drone a bit on this subject; while I admire his enthusiasm for the subject, the book is a bit wearing to read. This book could have been at least 25 pages shorter and every bit as informative.<BR>This book is recommended, especially for newcomers.	2001-09-09
US	50571280	R3VAE8896IZSWU	0060393874	1208954	WWF WrestleMania : The Official Insider's Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's good but overpriced somewhat	The book has some interesting scoops - such as how Linda McMahon handled the Hell's Angels gang who got past security looking for seats at the first sold-out Wrestlemania - but much of this material is already in the public domain. The presentation, typesetting, and photography is absolutely first-class. The text is rather brief, and perhaps questionably the book's final chapter is a lead-up to the Fatal Four-Way Match of some years ago, so the book is already dated. The DVD has some vignettes of the first 15 or 16 annual shows, but somehow in W III only the main event of Hulk vs. Andre was featured. The classic match on that card between Randy Savage and Ricky Steamboat was ignored completely. The digital remastering of the old original VHS videos is successful, although oddly the resolution quality of the first Wrestlemania at MSG is much better than W II at all three venues. I found the overall quality and work rate of the matches in recent years completely outclasses the PPVs of the 1980s, although quite rightly no criticism or comparisons are made between the old and the new, as it were. This release would offer very good value for the money if the DVD offered much new material but apart from some short interviews that simply isn't the case. The book can read easily in one day in spite of its imposing size - again much of it is filled with photography. Overall it does not have the research and depth of either of Mick Foley's books, but it remains enjoyable, albeit expensive. Recommended.	2001-08-24
US	50571280	RXGN7T3RPLVPX	0684841843	772466538	Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide, 5th Edition: Complete, Easy-to-Use Reference on Recent Vintages, Prices, and Ratings for More Than 8,000 Wines from All the Major Wine Regions	Books	3	9	10	N	N	interesting but not as comprehensive as the cover suggests	This book is almost 2,000 pages and I am taking the liberty of writing a few comments based on a quick overview. The text on the bottom of the front cover states &quot;...Ratings for more than 8000 Wines from All the Major Wine Regions&quot;. Some important wine areas are completely excluded, such as South Africa, the USA apart from the West Coast, Canada, Eastern Europe, and the Middle East (where there are a few very prestigious growers, such as Chateau Musar). Burgundy and Beaujolais together receive about 500 pages of commentary whereas Bordeaux gets only about 200. Germany gets 11 pages only, of which 5 are maps and general information about how its labelling system works, and no tasting notes at all. Austria is appended to Germany, and receives 5 and a half pages with tasting notes. All of the notes are devoted to one Austrian producer's Trockenbeerenauslese wines. I was quite astounded to find the exclusion in the German chapter of Robert Weil among recommended producers. His Rheingau Riesling wines are getting some of the highest prices in the country and comparable recognition. The section on Spain includes no evaluations of its white wines, as they were not considered by the author to be worthy. There are no comments on the country's wonderful sherries. The section on Portugal is devoted almost entirely to Port, with about half a page on table wine. There are no evaluations of any madeiras. I fail to understand why the author chose to include detailed commentaries on vintage Ports and Sauternes chateaux but practically nothing on sherry, madeira, Hungarian Tokaji Aszu Essencia, or German dessert wine. To me this seems very arbitrary.<BR>It should also be noted that Mr. Parker's assistant Pierre-Antoine Rovani wrote the tasting notes and/or scoring (using the 100 point system of course) for red and white Burgundy, Alsace, the Loire, Germany, Washington and Oregon, and New Zealand. This comes to somewhere between a third and half the total text. His very significant contribution is noted in one paragraph in the introduction.<BR>Having said all of this, for the most part I like what is contained here. It was decided - correctly in my view - to present the major French wine regions in alphabetical order rather than starting with either Bordeaux or Burgundy. Therefore the first 75 pages or so are devoted to Alsace. I have been a huge fan of this area's wines for the last 12 years and Mr. Rovani's comments are excellent. I concur wholeheartedly with his assertions that the very best vintages from the estates of Domaines Weinbach and Zind-Humbrecht (among others) offer quality equal to anything from Burgundy. You are not likely to go wrong with any of the recommendations here. The Burgundy section may seem a bit excessive at 500 pages, but again Messrs. Rovani and Parker emphasize there are sizeable variations in quality and it is easy to pay top dollar for mediocre wine here. It was noted that in the elite Le Montrachet, some 20 acres, there are 15 producers, of which only 5 or 6 can be relied upon for producing consistently excellent wine - yet all of them charge anywhere from $150 to $300+ a bottle. I cannot fault the authors for providing some extra guidance and information here, and if it saves the reader from spending money on one mediocre bottle the book has more than paid for itself. The Bordeaux section is well written but with over 2,000 chateaux to choose from, it could have been longer. To be fair, this area (and Burgundy) can take a book by itself, which Parker has done on 3 occasions already.<BR>The rest of the book has some interesting things too, but I have to disagree with the author's assertion that there is a lot of bad wine made in Washington. I've enjoyed it for many years and cannot honestly recall ever paying too much for a bottle. Oddly enough, Washington's best offerings get higher scoring than those from Oregon. New Zealand's offerings are confined to only one page.<BR>So far I like this book but cannot in all fairness give it an unqualified recommendation.	2001-08-10
US	50571280	R3MKBCVUXMELX5	006067539X	129713446	Here I Stand: My Struggle for a Christianity of Integrity, Love, and Equality	Books	4	5	7	N	N	it's tough to be an iconoclast	Whether you like retired Bishop Spong's ultraliberal views on Christendom or not, it is hard not to like his literary style. My first thoughts after finishing this book was that I do not have the intellectual prowess to pursue a career in the priesthood - although a few friends of mine have suggested otherwise in private - and I do not have the emotional stamina and thick skin required to either be someone who departs radically from tradition, or to marry someone who does. I got the overwhelming impression his first wife's mental illness (paranoia) was due in no small degree from the enormous pressures exerted on her family during her husband's tenure in the South as an outspoken supporter of racial integration during an era of racial intolerance and segregation.  Regardless of whether I agree or disagree in whole or in part on his religious views - relatively moderate at that time - this sort of thing is tragic and should not happen to anyone. To have the KKK going onto your property at 2am would be disturbing to anybody. I also found his efforts to seek some sort of rapprochement/understanding with Judaism via dialogues was admirable - although many would consider such a thing heretical - and the episode of some Jewish friends of the author taking Holy Communion from him at a Christmas Eve service touched me deeply. I hope to read some of the source material from those chapters and explore it further.  The latter part of the book, devoted mostly with his struggles to obtain concessions in the Anglican Communion (in and outside of his Diocese) for the ordination of homosexuals into the Offices of Deacon and to the Priesthood, and for the blessing and santification of same sex unions, is going to be a tough nut to crack for most readers, although the author tries diligently to put his position forward. Not unexpectly, his quest from within to outside the Diocese of Newark to the rest of the US and from there to the worldwide church at the Lambeth conferences met with increasing opposition from the conservative majority. The author categorically rejects the injunctions against homosexual behaviour found in the Scriptures, on the basis of modern scientific and medical evidence. He explored this in greater depth in his other writings, but even at the risk of repetition, I wish he had gone into more source detail in this book. In a future edition perhaps this will be done. The book, while not insubstantial, could have accomodated this very important information, so crucial to the author's premise. As a heterosexual married Christian male it did not convince me, but to be fair, it needed a more thorough exposition.<br />I hope the author fulfills his plans to complete an biography on Bishop Hines, who Spong claims was the most important member of the Anglican Communion of the 20th Century. Based on what is contained here, it would make fascinating reading.<br />This book is recommended, although it should not be taken as an endorsation part and parcel of the author's opinions. It is a very thoughtful, intelligent and cohesively written autobiography. I had misgivings on reading a biography about a priest, thinking it not really worthy of such treatment, but Spong's career is a unique story.	2001-07-01
US	50571280	R2YV820AEWDNHB	0810936909	74399337	National Gem Collection	Books	5	16	16	N	N	very nice to peruse	This book is more suited to enjoying the pictures than the text, but both are fine in every way. Almost all the stones in the book have exceptional color - or colors as the case may be. The front cover, going roughly from top to bottom counter clockwise, features a 99.82 carat fluorite, sitting on top of the 858 carat uncut Gachala Emerald (and the original cover looks way better), the lower left features a 34.07 carat red spinel from Mogok, next is a 52.26 carat calcite, and to the right a 17.85 carat diamond crystal from Murfreesboro, Arkansas. The back cover has a spectacular 181.9 carat Cooper Pedy white opal, that I initially mistook for a black opal. This book is published by Harry N Abrams, Inc. of New York, and is well up to this company's superior standards - and that also helps to explain the rather high price. The book is divided into six sections:  an introduction, some gems of signficant historical interest, a chapter on diamond, corundum and beryl, a chapter on other important stones, one devoted to stones with special properties (eg opals, cat's eyes and star sapphires) and finally ornamental gems. The appendix is also very useful and informative.<br />It is very helpful to use this as a reference for benchmark color. There is little or no commentary on evaluation, appraisal or strategic purchasing.<br />This book is expensive but there are few others like it. Recommended.	2001-06-26
US	50571280	R3T04P93JPWXDG	0316955140	39272620	This Is My God	Books	5	22	24	N	N	very typical of Wouk's best work	As a Christian who is very curious to learn about Judaism, this book served as a fine introductory lesson.  Herman Wouk researched this field exhaustively and relied on the expert knowledge of ordained rabbis on matters of religious law, and I think he tried to avoid overwhelming or intimidating a newcomer to this field of study with excessive details or exposition. In its directness and lucidity it has the same qualities as his other works, and after having read The Winds of War &amp; War and Remembrance twice each, I could not resist the opportunity to delve into this book. As Wouk noted, many top quality writers have almost a conversational style - and he certainly does. Wouk's dry sense of humor is very effective. This is worthwhile not only to read through in a few sittings, but also for reference on specific topics.  I also appreciated the author's attempts to explain his methods of transliteration from Hebrew, and suggestions on their English pronounciation.<br />I hope to use this book in doing further study. Recommended.	2001-06-23
US	50571280	RHKMQC6JIAAYD	0060393009	59636792	Foley Is Good: And the Real World Is Faker Than Wrestling	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Foley does it again	In the introduction, Mick claims he personally likes this new book better than his old one; I would say it is probably a matter of personal taste, and I preferred the original. Even at that, it surpasses all other recent releases in this genre. Like the original, it has some quirkiness in its design; I got tired of seeing the book's title on the margins of many of the pages. The front cover is improved over the earlier book and in my view so is the title. There is more space in this release devoted to Mick's preferences and experiences outside the wrestling business, not the least of which would be regarding theme parks, movies and actors. Some will find this entertaining, others perhaps tedious (myself included), but it is all refreshingly candid and original.  It is hard not to admire Mick's concern for the welfare of children. Many readers will find the practical jokes on other wrestlers absolutely hilarious, and I sensed in his chapter on Owen Hart - which has much new material from the first book - how much he is missed in the wrestling community. Fans of Mick's one-liners will not be dissapointed, although I thought they were toned down slightly in this issue.  The final chapter is the best, with a carefully researched and articulated defense against the high level of media criticism of the wrestling business.<br />The first book had an excellent introductory comment by Jim Ross; it was unfortunate this new issue did not receive similar treatment.<br />Fans of Foley's unique and engaging writing style should not hesitate to acquire this hardcover edition, which, like its predecessor, is fairly priced for its substantial size.	2001-06-05
US	50571280	R3B2YU1EMJ28KF	0811829642	289721488	To Life! L'Chaim! -Prayers and Blessings for the Jewish Home	Books	5	12	12	N	N	truly excellent	I was fortunate to discover this book while on vacation recently. This can be warmly recommended not only to members of the Jewish faith but also to Christians - like myself - and anyone who takes a serious interest in Judaism. It offers blessings and prayers for all the significant observances and celebrations of the Jewish liturgical calendar, as well as milestone events in Jewish life. I found the selected readings from the Psalms were heartwarming and inspired. Its overall presentation is exemplary. In spite of its relatively modest size, it is substantial.<br />Any open-minded and curious potential buyer should not hesitate to purchase this book.	2001-05-18
US	50571280	R1Z0D8IMXA2P3L	0840712707	751531660	Good News Bible: With Deuterocanonicals and Apocrypha for Catholics/390N	Books	4	8	9	N	N	a very good Bible for Catholics and non-Catholics alike	Speaking only for myself, this is not my favourite edition of the Bible - that would be the New Believer's editon - but it remains an indispensable part of my library.  According to Josh McDowell's Evidence Which Demands a Verdict, the Roman Catholic Church in 1546 elected at the Council of Trent to canonize the 15 books of the (Old Testament) Deuterocanonical Gospels &amp; the Apocrypha, as part of what was then a counter-Reformationist movement. I am an Anglican and also study these texts. I concur with Mr. McDowell's observations that some of the books are of questionable historical and theological value; but on the other hand, the Book of Wisdom (of Solomon), Baruch and I Macabees are very rewarding and inspiring. I think it should be up to the reader to have access to the material and glean whatever he or she can. The rest of the Old and New Testaments are translated in modern English and very readable, and compared to some other versions the editors here do not go overboard on theological dissertation.<br />This is enthusiastically recommended as a supplementary reference, and one could get by quite well using this edition exclusively.	2001-05-05
US	50571280	RTFOKYXN1K3WW	084234571X	212544158	New Believer's Bible: First Steps for New Christians (New Living Translation)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	a very readable Bible	Of the six or seven different editions of the Bible I own, this one is the one I use on a daily basis. It is written in very plain and straight-forward modern English, is well type set, and for the most part well annotated. As has been mentioned elsewhere, some of the supplemental commentaries represent the opinions of the editors, so they can be taken at times with a grain of salt. This would not be my first choice on research for Biblical interpretation. Typical of most editions, this one does not have the Deuterocanonical Books or the Apocrypha, so this should not be the only Bible in any believer's library. As a means of having a reasonable modern translation of the original texts, however, this book is very recommendable. It is also priced very fairly. There is also a separate edition of the New Testament, but I would suggest investing in this release. I have spent many wonderful hours reading the Psalms, which are a highlight of this edition, Deuteronomy, and Jeremiah, and have never enjoyed the Old Testament this much until purchasing this Bible. Recommended with enthusiasm.	2001-04-25
US	50571280	R1EJUBR4KAFI60	0819212954	185227914	What Is Anglicanism? (The Anglican Studies Series)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	a very good little book	This is not an insubstantial book, in spite of its modest size of 95 pages. The author goes to some effort to dispel any notions and impressions that the Anglican Communion is socially and financially upper class. He also refrains from denominational triumphalism. There is a great deal of interesting reading on issues of missionary work, prophetic witness, the Sacrements, Bishopry and administration, and Biblical interpretation. The writing style is quite heavy but not overwhelmingly so, and is closely and coherently argued. Certain readers might find his exposition rather stiff and humorless, but very thoughtful and well researched.<br />This book was written I believe in 1982 and it reflects issues affecting the Anglican church at that time. It is due for an updated edition, in light of recent developments. Perhaps surprisingly, there is no commentary or opinion on the Anglican position - at least in Canada from my direct experience - on the issue of encouraging participation of Baptized but not Confirmed Christians in the Eucharist. The Anglicans have come in for some criticism on this matter, even from Pope John Paul II. <br />I enjoyed this book so much that I read it twice. For Anglicans and Episcopalians it is an excellent read, although it is not suited for novices to Christianity. Considering there is not a great deal of literature in this specific branch of worship, it is recommended.	2001-04-24
US	50571280	RTWUFRC3U7KLF	0849963214	244123044	The Darkness And The Dawn	Books	4	4	5	N	N	not a classic. but still pretty good	This book is not as substantial as it might first appear, since a great deal of its space - too much perhaps - is taken up with spiritual poetry. This can be finished easily in a week or less. I found the first part of the book had some very thoughtful and intelligently argued bible scholarship, especially the chapter on the Lord's suffering in the Garden at Gesethemane (sp?), and his precise knowledge of the original Greek is formidable. As the book progresses from the events preceding up to the crucifixion, to Easter, the literary style becomes increasingly anecdotal, evangelical, and sermonized.  I found this latter part of the book rather wearing by the end. Had the scholarly tone been maintained throughout, the result would have been shorter, more cohesive, and perhaps less expensive.  There was enough original insight to make this a worthwhile study, and at the half way point I was preparing to give this work an unqualified recommendation.<br />I think the front jacket is well designed and arresting, and serves its intended purpose.	2001-04-22
US	50571280	R2MKJ072KDGF3A	0914984985	542785179	Revelation: God's Word for the Biblically Inept	Books	4	7	10	N	N	It's good for a novice but perhaps not for an expert	This book comes pretty close in literary style and graphic presentation to what a Revelation for Dummies might look like without the proliferation of humor. Although the authors boldly claim this work is intended to be of help to both the newcomer to the Bible and to the seasoned theologian, I submit it is much better suited as an introductory lesson. For those who find much of this Book of the New Testament nearly incomprehensible by today's standards, myself included, this treatise gave me an opportunity to &quot;get my feet wet&quot;, so to speak.  The explanations of the symbols and events are thoroughly cross-referenced where appropriate to the rest of the Bible, and the Book of Daniel figures very prominently. I liked the way the contributing authors tried to explain John's writing, but on many occasions their attempts at exegesis, relating these verses to recent events, left me shaking my head.  Their commentaries sometimes had a whiff of anti-Catholic sentiment, which I am sure many readers will find rather objectionable. The chronology in Appendix B at the mid-point of the Tribulation period does not match the precise order of events in the relevant chapters.<br />The authors repeatedly call upon the reader to seek repentance and a strengthening of his relationship with the Lord. I found the imagery of Jesus knocking on a believer's door to seek fellowship, and of Him casting a white stone in an urn, signifying his follower's innocence before Judgment as the intercessor, to be very comforting. Speaking only for myself, this sort of message hits closer to home than the plagues and catastrophies.<br />This book may be a good &quot;stepping stone&quot; for newcomers and encourage them to continue investigation. Nothwithstanding the excessive zeal of the authors, I found it on the whole to be worthwhile.	2001-04-03
US	50571280	R3J3SWBORPV59D	0060616601	838932953	The Birth of Christianity : Discovering What Happened in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus	Books	3	6	7	N	N	a must read perhaps only for Crossan enthusiasts	I finished this rather lengthy work some two weeks ago and have had some difficulty in offering commentary upon it.  In comparison with his many other books, which I find are not only theoretically reasonable (at least partially), but are very unified, cohesive and taut in exposition and presentation, this book seemed by comparison to be tedious, very esoteric, and long-winded.  Some parts of it are going to be of interest only to a specialist in this field of study.  The last 100 pages or so, when Crossan very thoughtfully expounds upon the Resurrection narratives of Gospel of Peter and the early influence of women, dovetail the exposition successfully, but several of the first 400 to 450 pages require considerable forbearance.  I got the strong impression the author has been taken aback by criticism he has received among scholarly peers in the past, and consequently he went to great lengths to justify his assumptions, methods of research, and interpretations. As at least one other reviewer duly noted, there is a great deal of scholarly commentary about [other] scholarly commentary. I found myself either losing the forest for the trees, so to speak, or losing patience with all the pre-ambling.  Somewhere around two-thirds of the way, there was a comment about another book having the effect of a series of intelligent notes but not really cohering properly. At the time I could not help but make the same observation about this work.<br />For those who are considering purchasing a Crossan work for the first time, I might suggest his Jesus: A Revolutionary Biography could be a better investment in terms of getting more information/opinions in less research time.<br />In spite of the considerable length of time spent with this book, I felt somewhat dissapointed.	2001-03-25
US	50571280	RPN0VSJNH37D1	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	3	3	4	N	N	the title should have been If They Only Cared	For the price asked for this book, I was hoping for something more substantial, on a par or close to Mick Foley's work. Much of it is filled with black and white photos and as a result it can be finished in one day without difficulty, although at least one prior reviewer claimed to have read it in less than two hours.  Apart from her professional colleagues in the wrestling industry and one sister, she has very little good to say about anyone, especially most of her family.  Although I was expecting some profanity in this book, I think the extent of it was gratuitous and unneccessary.  Joanie Laurer comes across as having a huge amount of emotional baggage and scores to settle with people who in her view have not treated her fairly - including celebrities at the Emmys, fitness contest judges, the staff at the Drew Carey show, Killer Kowalski, parents and step-parents.  I do not at all begrudge her success in the WWF, that is why I bought the book.  Instead of getting some significant insight into the workings of the wrestling business - and she never even explained why how the light-flashing bazooka was introduced in her ring entrances - we get a litany of grievances, and profanity-laced ones at that.  It is basically a very gossipy read.  For her committed fans this book will be indispensable, but for casual fans it perhaps might be better to wait for the paperback.  Although Chyna thinks Goldberg is a phony, I would say his book is better than hers.	2001-02-13
US	50571280	R8Z3B0R1MOAS4	0571180760	928811663	The Wines of Germany (Faber books on wine)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	the book is dated but still interesting	This is the 2nd edition, released in 1983, of Frank Schoonmaker's original classic from 1956. Schoonmaker's familiarity with the subject matter goes all the way back to the 1930s, although Peter Sichel has now issued a newer edition.  Needless to say there have been many changes in the German wine scene over the last 17 years or so - not the least of which is the emergence of Weingut Robert Weil in Kiedrich as the unofficial King of the Rheingau - but it still offers a thorough and scholarly assessment of the time. I absolutely concur with the author's assertion that the top vintages in the Mosel-Saar-Ruwer, then and now, can produce wines, from the best vinyards, that stand comparison with anything the rest of the world has to offer. He places Egon Muller's holdings in the Scharzhofberg vinyard in Wiltingen right at the top, which might have been true in 1971, but today Fritz Haag's wines from the Juffer-Sonnenuhr vinyard in Brauneburg are worthy to rank alongside him in that position.<br />The book does an excellent job of explaining the fundamentals of the German wine law and labeling system, which can be off-putting to the novice. It covers all the major and minor wine regions of what was West Germany at the time, and all the varietals. Then as now, Riesling is still the grape of choice. The vintage chart goes back from 1982 into the 1970s, which could come in handy. <br />This is recommended as a supplementary reference source, but the newer 3rd edition should be sought out first.	2000-12-19
US	50571280	R2RKXYK0GY08A6	0060616628	217861600	Jesus	Books	4	5	6	N	N	at the least, it's very thought-provoking	To be frank and honest I find it very difficult to critique a book such as this.  With the author's attempt to debunk the position that the Gospels are not intended to be taken literally as historical fact, this book is likely to outrage a very &quot;conservative&quot; Christian and fascinate a liberal one.  He admits to a bit of speculation in his reconstructions, and I cannot state whether or not they were well reasoned as a whole.  To be sure, they are very original.  I thought his comparisons  between the Greek Cynics and the Apostles were excellent, and more relevant than most people would imagine.  The chapter arguing against a regal burial for Jesus was perhaps more lurid than necessary.  His analyses of some of the famous parables (such as the feeding of the five thousand, the mustard seed) and moments in the Gospels (such as Emmaus in Luke 24) were well presented, although one may not be persuaded by them.  The epilogue seemed to me a dissapointment, where he introduced the Nicea conference and left the reader up in the air, as it were.<br />The weight of exposition is excellent, and the book is very readable, unlike some other material.<br />I think this work posed as many questions as it attempted to answer, and left me curious for more investigation. I think it's definitely worth reading, although it will not appeal to everyone.	2000-12-18
US	50571280	R3T7TL2TVXNYR1	0609607804	48165624	I'm Next: The Strange Journey of America's  Most Unlikely Superhero	Books	4	6	7	N	N	an honest but unspectacular effort	I would rank this offering somewhere between the shameless self aggrandizing of The Rock and the very ambitious efforts of Mick Foley.  This book can be read quite easily in 2 days, unlike Bret Hart's offering which takes less than 2 hours. I think the decision to start the piece with Goldberg's experiences as a pro wrestler and go into his childhood and pre-wrestling experiences later is going to appeal to the vast majority of potential buyers. As a result this book feels more like two short books offered back-to-back. There were some incidents - such as the unfriendly encounter between Goldberg and Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula at a basketball game - that were narrated twice, and I felt this could have been avoided or reduced with more careful editing.  Given the relatively short length of the book one could argue it was completely unnecessary.  <br />I was rather surprised at the frequent examples of Goldberg's undisciplined behaviour during his leisure hours prior to his wrestling career, including the admission that he failed a drug test during his senior year with the U of Georgia Bulldogs, resulting in his suspension just prior to the Gator Bowl.  It is also noted that his shortened professional football career was attributable to injuries sustained in action and not to his own carelessness or recklessness - although the author perhaps went to excessive length to establish this.<br />I got the very strong impression the author was the black sheep of the family prior to his wrestling success, although this is never stated or implied in the book. It seems he was trying very hard to prove himself especially to his dad and older brothers in spite of his many problems, and finally succeeded. <br />The sections devoted to wrestling were insightful and interesting, and the author makes a refreshingly candid assessment of his own performances and those of his peers. Contrary to popular belief, as it turns out, he did have one loss during that impressive 175 - 0 streak.<br />I wish they had chosen a different photo for the back cover of the jacket. I have no objection whatsoever with Goldberg wearing what I assume to be a yamulka. I believe that a photo of the back of someone's head and shoulders, apart from demonstrating his strength, is rather impersonal and off-putting.<br />This book is recommended with some reservations.	2000-12-08
US	50571280	R1H6JVTZ3E0GZ4	0688028470	83427194	Chef Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen	Books	5	4	4	N	N	the best cajun cookbook there is	The author has done almost everything imaginable here to provide help for  the newcomer to cajun/creole cooking to the professional.  The layout and  presentation is excellent along with the photography. Readers should be  forewarned that many of the recipes are not exactly  &quot;heart-healthy&quot;, especially when the distinctive rouxs come into  play, so some discretion may be called for.  Nobody will be dissapointed  with the quality of the recipes and the flavours and aromas they produce.  Some consideration is also given for those who have an aversion to heavily  spiced or seasoned dishes.  There is something here almost literally for  all tastes.  The author is very generous with his knowledge and experience.  An indispensable book. Strongly recommended.	2000-09-06
US	50571280	RV21O4JVMFYHR	0517014750	859958733	Gourmet's Basic French Cookbook: Techniques of French Cuisine	Books	5	18	18	N	N	very well written and tantalizing	Louis Diat's work is one of the classics, and the recipes are well  explained, relatively straightforward to follow, and produce delicious  results.  If you like beef, try his recipe for Chateaubriande a la  bouquetiere pour deux, a filet mignon dish with mixed vegetables (which can  be expanded to serve more than two), and I guarantee you'll be hooked the  first time, and anybody can make it following his recipe.  It will be as  good as anything you would pay a premium for in a fine restaurant, and  impress the daylights out of your guests.  This is one of my favourite  cookbooks, and well worth seeking out.  Recommended with enthusiasm.	2000-09-04
US	50571280	R2AK60BB9A3W2	0425177807	691404516	Rulers of the Ring: Wrestling's Hottest Superstars	Books	2	0	0	N	N	it's just OK	If you're looking for scoops and a detailed commentary of what goes on  behind the scenes of pro wrestling - which the top of the front cover of  this book promises - this book will probably prove to be somewhat of a  dissapointment.  It apprears most of the information presented here has  been obtained from previously published material, and the career highlight  matches of the wrestlers in question are most likely already known to  potential buyers. I have seen worse than this, but Mick Foley's book offers  a great deal more in terms of sheer size and depth. If you haven't read  much about the histories of Goldberg, Sting, and Chyna, this material will  be of some interest. The color photos are of variable quality.  There are  some proofreading errors too, among them the reference to Kane on page 169:   &quot;This defiant, seven-foot wrestler has proven that he is afraid of  anyone...&quot;.<br />For the modest price asked, this book can be recommended  with reservations only for the most serious wrestling fan; the casual  enthusiast could probably skip it.	2000-09-01
US	50571280	R1GZQJL6VI0QFU	0802082912	976848200	Wagner: The Terrible Man and His Truthful Art	Books	5	71	72	N	N	arguably the most information in the least time	Although this book consists of merely three lectures, and can be finished  off in about 2 or 3 hours without difficulty, it has as much fresh insight  as many other titles that take much longer to study.  The first lecture  exploring the influence of classic Greek mythology and cultural recognition  through artistic expression - ie roughly how the Greek society established  itself through artistic endeavour - gives the reader a pretty clear idea  what Wagner was trying to accomplish for Germany through his music dramas,  and also confirms a pretty outlandish level of self-confidence to even make  such an attempt. The second lecture has some material which has already  been covered in other books - notably Aspects of Wagner by Magee - but is  still interesting. The final lecture with a detailed study of Tannhauser is  excellent, the most interesting commentary on this opera I have read to  date. The choice of Wassily Kandinsky's Die Nacht, inspired by Act II of  Tristan und Isolde, for the front cover was very appropriate. Strongly  recommended.	2000-08-06
US	50571280	R2LJRAAMR8DN5L	0412989115	459412948	Color Encyclopedia of Gemstones	Books	5	64	64	N	N	although the rest are very fine, this is still the best	It is a real shame that this book is presently out-of-print, I borrowed it from the local library some 5 years ago, and to this date have yet to see anything better in this genre. The technical data about precious stones -  such as dispersion, types of refraction, specific gravity, types of  cutting, and so on - are well covered, with specific commentaries on  individual stones presented in encyclopaedic format. It's very useful not  only for specific reference but just for general browsing.  What sets this  book apart, on the other hand, is the quality and quantity of the gem  photography. There are pictures of every major and minor gem in the world,  and where a particular type of stone has more than one color - or colors -  the entire suite of colors is presented. So the garnets, sapphires,  diamonds, tourmalines, topazes, beryls (just to name a few) look positively  kaleidoscopic.  The opal section alone has some magnificent stones,  including top-quality Lightning Ridge black, one of which is photographed  from different directions to demonstrate the superb color play. The zircon  and spinel photography is quite impressive too.<br />This book is emphatically  not for the investor or speculator who is looking for advice, and no  attempts at valuation are made. On the other hand, for readers interested  in specific gemmological research or (esoteric) appreciation, this book  will be ideal. The level of scholarship is impeccable, and the book is not  overwhelmingly technical or difficult. It is not cheap but is worth every  penny. Most strongly recommended.	2000-07-20
US	50571280	R374NW4ZU3OJUV	034544146X	196878122	Texas Rattlesnake	Books	2	1	1	N	N	it's just OK for the price, and that's the bottom line	This pocket paperback can be polished off in about 2 or 3 hours or so, and as noted elsewhere does not offer many scoops or insights into SCSA's career. I think if it had been written by him or on behalf of him instead  of generally about him, it would have been more entertaining.  The multiple  choice test at the end was unnecessary.  The book does offer a quick  run-through of his career up until early 2000 when he was on the sidelines  recovering from major neck surgery. It was presumably published before his  most recent PPV appearance, when he clearly was not at his earlier fitness  level.  There is very little new material not already available elsewhere.  There could have been a few more photographs thrown in for good measure.   At this price it could be considered a must-read for serious SCSA fans, but  for the casual wrestling fan it might be better to wait until something  more comprehensive and duly authorized comes along. Recommended with  reservations.	2000-07-17
US	50571280	R12DECOO2QMJUK	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a supreme effort, but very difficult	The Pulitzer Prize for this work was very well deserved I am sure. The thesis and exposition requires exhaustive support, and the author has gone to considerable lengths to provide it. I would also suggest to a potential  buyer that musical literacy would be very helpful before delving deeply  into this material.<br />To be painfully honest, I was unable to complete this  book in spite of having the best of good intentions. This, alongside Robert  Eisenman's study of James, the Brother of Jesus, are the most  intellectually taxing books I have ever seen.  If someone offers you this  book as a gift, which happened to me, you should consider it a very high  compliment. <br />The author has insights to offer on almost every page and  even a partial reading will be very worthwhile.  For those who love Bach,  it will be indispensable.  Most strongly recommended.	2000-07-06
US	50571280	RH6VZIYAYDGFA	0140513795	158320887	Compact Discs, The Penguin Guide to: Completely Revised and Updated (Penguin Guide to Compact Discs, 1999)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	it's hard to shop for classical CDs without it	I have been an avid collector of these books since starting a classical music library over 20 years ago. The most recent edition maintains the high standard as prior issues. For the record, the &quot;N&quot; is used to  designate a new release/recording that has not been reviewed in a prior  edition.  While the editors' opinions are as a rule highly reliable, they  do not guarantee that what they consider to be an outstanding recording  will automatically become a favourite for the potential buyer. So this book  is truly a guide and no more than that.  Oddly enough there are more  proofreading errors in this issue than prior editions - particularly with  cross-referencing - but that should not deter anybody. Considering the vast  amount of material it covers, it remains very competitively priced. The use  of two columns per page - which one hardly ever sees outside of the Bible  (!) - adds to the depth and concentration of the book.  The editors have  gone to the trouble of adding expository material when evaluating  recordings of obscure works, which gives the reader added motivation to try  them out.  The book is very strong in the area of Scandinavian music,  mainstream and otherwise. These books are also quite sturdy and can take  some abuse without literally coming apart.  All foreign accents are used  where required.  Still a very fine reference.  Highly recommended.	2000-07-04
US	50571280	R2300UN4XYMC5V	0193153181	220664139	I Saw the World End: A Study of Wagner's Ring (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	63	64	N	N	a definitive reference	This book was to have been the first of a two-volume set, but sadly Deryck Cooke passed away before his monumental exposition could be fully realized.  It is a great tragedy that this work was left unfinished, but we should at  least be thankful for what we have. Rather than take a theological,  political or sociological position and try to make the Ring fit, as many  authors did, Cooke chose instead to focus on the actual construction of the  libretto and orchestral score. Although there is insightful analysis on all  4 operas, this volume is devoted mostly to the realization of Das Rheingold  and Die Walkure. The author presents a very convincing thesis that far from  being a disjointed, poorly conceived work, Rheingold, by comparison to the  extremely disparate and incoherent nature of the source material, is in  fact a very compact and concentrated story.  When one looks at the  Nibelungenlied, the Eddic poems, and the various pieces of Norse mythology,  Cooke unequivocally demonstrates that Wagner had enough material to compose  a stage work requiring much longer than 4 evenings to perform. The process  of refining, editing, compressing, and modifying (within reason) to adapt  the writings for the stage is explained in thorough and exhaustive detail.  Somehow Cooke accomplished this without the narrative dragging on or  becoming too difficult, a masterly effort in exposition.  He then goes on  to explain how the leitmotives were conceived and transformed from one  character and/or event to another.  The depth of analysis is worthy of the  subject matter. Anyone who reads this book should have a much greater  appreciation of Das Rheingold than before. <br />This work offers many rewards  to the serious Wagner enthusiast and also to the casual music lover, and  cannot be too strongly recommended. Let us hope it comes back into  circulation.	2000-06-07
US	50571280	R3IELENDMPSZAJ	0500233241	124163066	The Ring of the Nibelung	Books	5	6	7	N	N	magnificent in every way	I had the pleasure to acquire a copy of this book in the summer of 1981 in Seattle during the annual Ring festival. Almost 20 years later it remains a treasured part of my library. This  large and heavy coffee table book is devoted to reproductions of Ul de Rico's numerous paintings of various  scenes from the Ring. The original paintings were rendered in oil on solid  wooden panels, and were rendered in a highly realistic manner with very  bold and dramatic color saturation.  Compared to the works of Arthur  Rackham, Ul de Rico in my view is the more effective and powerful  illustrator.  These images come as close as one could imagine to ideal,  producing visual effects one is never likely to see in Bayreuth or anywhere  else.  The photographs are printed on high gloss paper, and are accompanied  simply by a few lines each, in English, of the applicable libretti.   Interestingly, all of the images from the first three operas have the Three  Norns exchanging the thread of fate around the perimeter, which is a very  interesting effect.  This continues early in Gotterdammerung until the  moment in the Prologue where the thread breaks, upon which the Norns have a  dramatic descent. This very image was used as the cover of the Ring  highlights recording that Solti made with the VPO in 1983, just prior to  his conducting in Bayreuth of the centenary Ring.  Incidentally, the book  also includes a very high compliment, in the Preface, by George Solti  himself.  <br />This book is well worth seeking out and will provide years of  lasting enjoyment. I can't speak highly enough for it.	2000-06-07
US	50571280	R13N3FYBTHR4N8	0943763223	101509439	Jewelry & Gems: The Buying Guide, 4th Edition : How to Buy Diamonds, Pearls, Colored Gemstones, Gold & Jewelry with Confidence and Knowledge	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a good reference	This is a very interesting and certainly colorful book, but not as definitive as some other reviewers might suggest. I would suggest it is more suitable for the novice collector than the specialist, and the price  list in the middle should be used only as a guide and not as justification  for appraisals. The writer has a very high level of scholarship and wears  it lightly, which is excellent. I still prefer the work of Joel Arem in  this area, but this work remains a strong contender. This is probably not a  book to read cover to cover, but to keep handy for reference purposes, and  it does get used a great deal. Recommended.	2000-05-30
US	50571280	R3AU15ZN18YXCE	0395410606	243604121	006: Triumph and Tragedy (The Second World War)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	great epic	My comments refer not only to this penultimate volume but the entire series, and not to the currently advertised edition, but the first edition.  Churchill remains one of my favourite authors, and this historic work is  arguably his literary masterpiece.  Speaking only for myself, I found the  weight and style of English to be ideal, not too light or scholarly.  His  point of view of course is from the winning side, which is his right and  privilege.   For those willing to put in the time, without tiring of the  war, it is well worth the effort.  Somehow the narrative never seems to  drag, in spite of the considerable length. Enthusiastically recommended.	2000-05-07
US	50571280	R1JNML6QWV9ENB	0670824887	224232926	Riesling (Guides to Grape Varieties)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a definitive reference on Riesling wines	This book deserves to be in the library of any wine lover. It gives all the major producers of this much-maligned but noble varietal from Australia, Austria, Canada, France (notably the Alsace region), Germany,  Italy, Luxembourg, New Zealand, Russia (!), and the USA. This author's  writing style is erudite and intelligent without being the least bit  snobbish or elitist.  I have tried several fine German bottles based on his  specific recommendations, for the first time, and absolutely concur with  his observations. This book can be used to find fine wines that offer value  for money at every price and quality range. It offers a great deal of  insight for the novice wine enthusiast and the seasoned expert. For the  moderate price, it is well worth having, and would make a very thoughtful  gift too.  Most strongly recommended.	2000-03-31
US	50571280	R29KHA99CV3ZS1	0773760954	963285744	Bret 'Hitman' Hart: The Best There Is, the Best There Was, the Best There Ever Will Be	Books	3	6	7	N	N	interesting but too short	I read this book in about 70 minutes during a queue at a autograph session of its author earlier today. I rank it somewhere between Dwayne Johnson's lame effort, for which I appear to be in the minority in expressing  disapproval, and the very ambitious but somewhat incohesive work of Mick  Foley. This book has the best presentation of the three and is the least  expensive, which is only fair given its brevity. All three works feature  tributes to Owen and this one is not surprisingly the best of them. I  really like what I saw, but I wish I had seen a great deal more. For  committed Bret Hart fans this book will be indispensable, but for the  average wrestling fan, the documentary video Wrestling with Shadows will be  more interesting for about the same price.  Recommended with some  reservations.	2000-03-25
US	50571280	R3CSPFZPD5ZCKP	1580171818	638584020	Hand-Feeding Backyard Birds: A Step-By-Step Guide	Books	5	14	16	N	N	simply beautiful	It is my pleasure to be the first to write a customer review for this book.  It has the literary weight and feel of a guide more than a book.  At 129 pages, it is also decidedly short, especially when much of the space is filled with the photos.  On the other hand (sic), it would be curmudgeonly  to withhold a strong recommendation.  The bird photography is absolutely  exquisite, and would merit six stars for admiration if the rating system  permitted it.  This charming little book is also fairly priced.  The  author's style of writing is witty and engaging.  I personally cannot think  of another book with such a handsome cover as this one.  The overall  presentation is elegant and tasteful, and the judicious use of sunlight and  shadow adds to the distinction of the photos.  For a casual or serious  bird-lover, this book would make an outstanding gift.  Most strongly  recommended.	2000-03-12
US	50571280	R1H8MJ556D8RYP	014025773X	874362925	James the Brother of Jesus: The Key to Unlocking the Secrets of Early Christianity and the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	5	15	20	N	N	so far, exhilirating and exhuasting	I am taking the liberty of writing some comments after reading only 376 pages of this immensely difficult work. I took a breather after page 200 and read The Rock Says just to change the pace a little. This is one of the  two most difficult books I have ever attempted to read - the other being  Goedel, Escher, Bach, The Eternal Golden Braid - and put this book aside on  the first attempt at reading it two years ago.  The author states in his  preface that the work is design to inform and educate the specialist and  non-specialist alike. While not making any claims to being a specialist on  theology and ecclesiastical history, I have read works by John Shelby  Spong, John Dominic Crossan, Barbara Theiring and several other authors;   and, for what's it's worth, the New Testament.  Having said all that, I  still find this book enormously difficult to get through. I do not feel  academically qualified to say whether I agree with his interpretation of  ancient documents or his conclusions, as I do not have his capacity to  absorb an enormous amount of information and his ability to read Hebrew.  From what I can deduce thus far, he is presenting a very different picture  of first century Palestine from what is written in the New Testament -  particularly the Book of Acts - and is asserting that the Pauline tradition  of Christianity, the foundation of mainstream Christian thought, could be  the greatest fraud ever perpetrated upon the Western world. In fact, in his  preface, he came to the conclusion that Judaism and Christianity were for  all intents and purposes unsupportable.    Eisenman's emerging portrait of  James contains many fascinating details not reported elsewhere. For  instance, while maintaining to have witnessed the Resurrection of his more  famous younger brother, as the first ever elected &quot;Bishop&quot; of  Jerusalem, arguably the holiest man of his era, HE CONTINUED TO OBSERVE THE  MOSAIC LAW SCRUPULOUSLY, including the observance of Yom Kippur andthe  offering of sacrifice(s) and repentance in the Holy of Holies of the Temple  of Jerusalem, a place to which only he had access. He made prayers and  supplications before God - allegedly to the point where his knees became as  callused as those of a camel - on behalf of all the faithful of his  community. I have to tell you, unless I'm missing something obvious here,  when I first read this two years ago that Jesus' brother was observing Yom  Kippur I almost fell off my chair in disbelief. It appears to fly  completely in the face of the theology surrounding the expatiatory death on  Good Friday. Unless James was sadly mistaken, which I doubt, it gives one  cause to rethink Pauline Christianity itself.   And yet, when you read the  Letter of James in light of this information, it sems to make sense.  Oddly  enough, this letter was castigated as containing bad theology over the  centuries - by Martin Luther for one - but now one wonders whose theology  is right and wrong.<br />In any event, this book, if one has the patience to  re-read it, will be thought-provoking. For those who would criticize the  author's very dense exposition, I have to say that this kind of subject  matter is extremely complicated and trying to answer one question usually  results in two more questions. The author is at least trying to present as  much information as possible, but for many potential readers, it will be  too overwhelming to absorb.  I would welcome a future shorter book by this  author, if it ever sees the light of day, attempting to simplify his  position without compromising too much on detail.  If it were as readable  as works by the authors mentioned above, that would be true bounty indeed.	2000-02-20
US	50571280	RQJEF0OETFVX4	0849942063	752805681	Jesus: The Great Debate	Books	3	6	12	N	N	interesting but not definitive	the author has attempted to prove definitively that Jesus was (and presumably still is) the Messiah.  While he tries to write from a historian's perspective in the beginning, and presents much interesting  information, his argument ultimately falls into the typical pattern of an  apologetic.  I found his chapter attempting to quantify the statistical  odds of predicting certain events in the life and death of Jesus  unconvincing as he assumed absolute historical accuracy of the Gospels.  At  the very least, that is highly debatable. The author also devotes a whole  chapter to the inscriptions of early tombs in Jerusalem, some of which are  Christian. That doesn't contribute to the argument.  The book is very  readable, unlike some other theological material.	2000-02-17
US	50571280	R208N0STHI34FD	0060392991	634723262	Mankind: Have a Nice Day - A Tale of Blood and Sweatsocks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Foley gets a pinfall	For all intents and purposes, this reads like a gigantic version of Raw is War. Foley has to commended for writing a substantial work, quite unlike his famous competitor.  Am withholding a fifth star due to the poor design  of the cover and some excessive jokiness - although Foley's wit is much  more refreshing than The Rock's interminable comments about himself.	2000-02-06
US	50571280	RQ04MQWNZJSOJ	0060392983	606000879	The Rock Says...	Books	1	5	6	N	N	D.J. should stick to wrestling	Sorry, this is a full-length magazine that's been expanded to a book with excessive photos. Can be read in about one day, unlike Foley's book, which takes a week to read.  The sections written in the Rock's character are of  no value.  IMHO the author took advantage of his popularity. Wait for the  paperback. I thought Foley's book, although hardly a contender for a  Pulitzer Prize, gave more inside information about the wrestling business  and more &quot;scoops&quot; about the people in it.  Foley has also been in  the business a lot longer and has a better story to tell - in substance and  presentation.  Foley's tribute to Owen Hart is more convincing too. Both  books suffer from awkward covers.   Not recommended, in spite of being a  fan of his character.	2000-02-06
