US	50570484	R1IXHPZ9P8PWRA	1852426845	101797456	Nineteen Eighty Three (Red-riding Quartet) (Pt. 4)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Satisfying conclusion to the Yorkshire Quartet	When a figure dominates a genre as James Ellroy does modern crime fiction, then it is inevitable that blurb writers suggest unnatural comparisons between authors and the master. Many have suffered. Ian Rankin is Scotland's Ellroy; and David Peace is Yorkshire's. While some writers suffer from the comparison, Peace does not.<br />His series of novels set in and around Leeds at the time of the Yorkshire Ripper murders is in my view the finest modern British series in crime fiction. Dark, desperate, highly stylised, moving, they engage with modern Britain - drawing on a number of topical themes: abuse; corruption; conspiracy.<br />This the final novel in the quartet revisits many of the threads initiated in 1974, but are presented in such a way that knowledge of the previous novels is not necessary.<br />The three principals here: BJ, a rent boy, Piggot, a corrupt solicitor, and Jobson, a corrupt policeman, are set in three different interlinking narratives. In demonstrating how his style has developed since his earlier work, here various devices are used effortlessly. Piggot's chapters are written in the second person, BJ refers to himself continually in the third person. The device differentiates the narrative threads, but also serves to demonstrate the distancing each character has from their story.<br />The characters are all too human, complex people with complex motivations. Violence is presented explictly, the consequences of actions explored (throughout the whole of the twenty five year span covered by the novel). <br />The subject matter - violent child murders and abuse - may be too much for some. The writing style may be too much for others. BUt make no mistake, David Peace is the most exciting and most important thing that has happened to crime fiction in the UK in a very long time. <br />Since publication in the UK Peace has been listed as one of the Best Young British NOvelists in Granta magazine.  He is the only genre writer listed.	2003-07-30
US	50570484	RCHB08Y01NYH1	014002025X	344578734	Maigret and the Hundred Gibbets	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Early Maigret - a delightful psychological thriller	IN the first year of publication of Maigret novels almost a dozen were published.  The rapidity with which Simenon produced the books in that first year did not detrimentally effect the quality.  Having read Maigret novels from throughout the series I am of the view that those novels in the first years are as good as any Simenon produced: Lock 14, The Yellow Dog, A Man's Head,  The Bar on the Seine (each of which has recently been reprinted in the UK), are each of the highest quality.  But for me The Hundred Gibbets tops these and is on a par with the best of Simenon's fiction (such as The Blue Room).<br />Through his curiosity as to why a man was packaging 30,000 francs in Brussels posting the money on Maigret resolves to follow Louis Jeunet.  His trailing of Jeunet and switch of Jeunet's suitcase leads Jenuet to commit suicide in Bremen and places in Maigret's possession of a blood stained suit.  The wonderful opening chapter sets in motion a densely plotted well characterised thriller based around Simenon's birthplace of Liege in Belgium.  <br />Maigret has a depth here that some of the later novels lack, and the sense of place is palpable.  The plot involves uncovering an incident from many years before.  The Belgian characters involved in the incident are well drawn, most memorable being the businessman van Damme.  His confrontation with Maigret and continual appearances around peculiar incidents are delightfully done.  <br />Highly recommended I would suggest that this is an excelletn strating place in reading Maigret and if you enjoy this would recommend any of the Maigret volumes referred to previously, or the Zen novels of Michael Dibdin.	2003-07-11
US	50570484	R29IR7ZQU97AXB	0571205127	514551522	Zanzibar	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Disappointing - one eye on an adaptation	Giles Foden is a journalist and his first two novels were very promising. The Last King of Scotland, a fascinating study of Idi Amin and the charisma of power and corruption - and one of the best first novels of the 1990s; Ladysmith, a fine siege novel. On the strength of these two novels Foden was proclaimed by Allan Massie one of the best young British novelists. However, while the big breakthrough as a literary novelist awaits it is customary for promising British novelists to turn their attention to cinema. One cannot blame them. There is little money to be made in literary fiction, even as one of the best young British novelists. So, a young man's fancy will turn to thoughts of big name actors, big budget action thrillers, and the end result sees novels by numbers. Sadly Giles Foden seems to have followed the same path as Philip Kerr.<br />This novel deals with al-Qaida and the US embassy bombings of the late 1990s. The novel was substantially completed before 11.9.2001 and its content evidences the diligence of Foden's researches into ther organisation (although there is a didacticism here that is not present in his earlier novels). It looks at the early links between bin Laden's organisation and the American CIA, one of the three central western characters being a CIA agent involved in training al-Qaida operatives in Afghanistan during the Soviet occupation. This strand is for me the most successful part of the novel. Quiller is an interesting character, battling his past failure, trying to make recompense. He echoes those characters that populate Foden's previous novels (although even aspects of his character - such as his missing limb - feel like caricature). However, Quiller is off centre too often. Instead the plot centres around a young American marinne biologist Nick, (Memo to central casting - man on a mission, driven, unable to commit: promising for Ben Affleck?), and his sometime love interest Miranda, a diplomat at the US embassy in Tanzania (memo to central casting - attractive, strong woman, stumbling into love, powerful scenes when on solo investigation. All scantily clad sections wholly essential to plot due to extreme heat: Try J-LO?). Neither wholly convinces, and the love story feels like a pitch for a movie. <br />I wonder if the book was rushed out to remain topical. It could have benefited from a longer gestation, the paring down of the plot, the building up of the characters.<br />The pages keep turning, but a week after I'd finished the novel there were few scenes that remained in the mind, no long lasting impression. One could say it was perfect airline reading, and one can see a big budget all action movie, if it were not for the problem that Foden makes clear the complicity of the US in the development of bin Laden's movement.<br />On the strength of Foden's previous work I will look forward to his next novel, but I don't think I'll be revisiting Zanzibar.	2003-07-11
US	50570484	R33WU4AFZIXL67	0563538422	767196252	The Adventuress of Henrietta Street (Doctor Who)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Finest Eighth Doctor Adventure	In the world of Doctor Who novels a new work by Lawrence Miles is an event.  His previous works, Alien Bodies and Interference, and his New Adventure Dead Romance, have a scale and a depth that is lacking from most of the long running series predecessors.  Miles has ambition for the series, and sadly, many traditional Doctor Who fans, do not realise that it is on the printed page that the future of the series now lies - and it is through playing with form and style that Doctor Who will continue to justify its existence.<br />With Lawrence Miles new novel, The Adventuress of Henrietta Street, Doctor Who fiction has been delivered the Miles book long promised through the midwife of series editor, Justin Richards.  This is a new start for the series, and coming after an impressive series of novels including Loyd Rose's City of the Dead, Kate Orman's The Year of Intelligent Tigers, and Simon Bucher-Jones and Kelly Hale's Grimm Reality, suggests a bright future for the series.<br />It is difficult to write too much about this novel without giving away key plot elements.  However, to attempt.  The Doctor is sick, stranded in eighteenth century London in a brothel run by Scarlette, the eponymous heroine.  Without his TARDIS, and initially without his companions, the Doctor is sick.  Strange demon apes (babewyns) roam London's streets.  They kill and devour those in their way.  And a bulky character, Sabbath, appears in a metal ship crewed by trained babewyns, pledged to defend time.  This novel deals with the loose ends left hanging by the big bang from The Ancestor Cell, and throws up enough plot strands to suggest a bright future for the series.<br />The novel reintroduces an old friend (although they are never named), and features two controversial elements that will keep the Doctor Who fanbase arguing for years to come.  <br />Aside from the controversy, though, the novel merits the description in the title - the finest Eighth Doctor adventure.  Appreciating that Doctor Who lies on the page, Miles (along with Paul Magrs one of the more sophisticated writers of the series), turns in a stylistic tour de force.  Reminding this reader of William Boyd's fake biography Nat Tate, Miles writes a history.  Freed from the obligation on an author to be omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent, Miles writes a history based on testimonies.  Whether or not events occurred are couched with doubts and questions.  Referring to many sources - from Scarlette, Sabbath, the Doctor, masonic records, secret service records, and the tesimonies of various prostitutes - strands are pulled together.  The plot is never overwhelmed by style.  But the halting nature of the historical narrative leaves loose ends, uncertainties.  This is what the series needed.  This is a novel that bears rereading, but also suggests a new way forward.  The Doctor, in assuming the mantle of Earth's champion, and Sabbath, there to protect time, sets fair for a new conflict in the series.<br />This was a most enjoyable read.  And as well as the big picture Miles puts in some jokes (I enjoyed the conflict between the prostitutes in Manchester, where the southerners wear red and black, the locals, blue and white rosettes.)  One hopes that Miles returns to the series again very soon; and, also, that his ambition extends beyond Who.  Here is a novelist that - in fantasy or science fiction - could play with ideas, and write big important novels.<br />If you enjoyed this read Alien Bodies or Interference, Miles' last two series defining volumes.	2001-11-19
US	50570484	R8OW77YCTOYCH	185242639X	858121993	Nineteen Seventy Seven	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Experimental crime fiction with a social conscience	David Peace's first novel, Nineteen seventy four was a story with roots in working class English literature.  The central character, Eddy, a journalist, became embroiled in police corruption, and a sordid series of child murders.  The novel was set in Yorkshire, written in the first person, and explored the underside of an area that months later saw the start of a vicious series of sexual murders committed by Peter Sutcliffe, the &quot;Yorkshire Ripper&quot;.  This was a promising debut.  That promise starts to be fulfilled with the second volume in Peace's West Yorkshire Quartet, Nineteen Seventy Seven.<br />In this novel Peace raises his work a notch.  He has produced one of the finest British crime novels of recent years, and in his quartet of novels looks set to produce one of the finest series since Ellroy's Dudley Smith novels.<br />The narrative in Nineteen Seventy Seven focuses on two characters, Jack Whitehead, a journalist; and Bob Fraser, a police sergeant.  Both characters appeared in Nineteen Seventy Four.  Both are haunted by the shocking conclusion to the earlier novel.  Their stories are set against the backdrop of the Sutcliffe murders, and the Silver Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II.<br />Each strand is written in first person narrative, and for the most part the plot lines run parallel, although Fraser and Whitehead meet and exchange information.  There are some stylistic similarities between the two strands (both have astream of consciousness feel) but for the most part the characters are sufficiently differentiated.  While the strands run parallel there are some similarities in their development.  For example, both are, or become, involved with prostitutes at a time when those prostitutes in West Yorkshire feared for their lives due to the Sutcliffe murders.<br />This is where Peace has taken an audacious step.  In Nineteen Seventy Seven he begins to work on a fictionalisation of the Sutcliffe murders.  However, the salient facts remain accurate.He places his characters in the main regional newspaper, and in the crime squad investigating the murders.  At the centre of the novel lie the murders, and Peace - in both strands - is interested in following up the victim's reactions.  His characters visit the families.  Unlike some of the crossword puzzle mysteries where murder is a game with no consequences here, everyone involved is affected, from the family, to those investigating, to those that are left, living in fear.  It is this agenda that underpins the novel and Peace's third novel, Nineteen Eighty, published in the UK in August 2001.  And it is this dimension, developing in this novel and still further in Nineteen eighty, that gives Nineteen seventy seven a depth that much contemporary crime and thriller fiction lacks.<br />Aside from the social dimension, Peace's work has raised a level from his first novel in his characterisation.  Neither central character is an archetypal hero, neither wholly amoral.  Whitehead and Fraser are both given enough complexity to be credible.  There are some powerful (and very disturbing) scenes in which Fraser assaults his lover; coupled with a tenderness between Fraser and his child.  Taking mere examples from the novel may make the characterisation sound pat, the usual policeman bending the rules with personal difficulties.  It is not easy to convey how unlike the orthodox approach in crime fiction this is.  However, differ it does; and this is primarily through the first person narrative.  <br />One further dimension is the series of occasional transcripts from a fictionalised talk radio show where callers talk about the Ripper, the Jubilee, and late seventies Yorkshire.  These interludes punctuate the chapters, acting like a Greek chorus on the events in the main narrative.<br />I should also note the powerful conclusion.  In Nineteen seventy four, the conclusion is overblown, excessive.  Here, in retrospect, it seems inevitable.  Yet, it is all the more shocking forthat.<br />As the second book in the series, I would recommend that this be read after Nineteen seventy four.  There are various references, and incidental characters (including BJ , involved in the blackmail of a councillor in Nineteen seventy four) where knowledge from the first novel is presupposed.  Without Nineteen seventy four I feel that many references would have passed me by.  However, as the subject matter is sufficiently different this novel could be read as stand alone.<br />Having praised the novel why a rating of four and not five stars?  This is based on one consideration central to Peace's agenda.  I am uncertain to what extent crime novelists should deal with real events, fresh in the memories.  While the novelist expresses concern about those affected - and makes this a central plank of the novel, could one argue that the very action of using the murders is itself potentially exploitative and damaging.<br />Highly recommended.  If you liked this try On Beulah Height by Reginald Hill, or The Black Dahlia by James Ellroy.	2001-08-21
US	50570484	R81M1N4O78Z2E	1852427418	196805462	Nineteen Seventy Four (A Five Star Title)	Books	3	37	38	N	N	Viscious and visceral (3.5 stars)	It is the fate of any new crime/thriller writer publishing &quot;noir-ish&quot; fiction to be beset by comparisons to James Ellroy. For the great unwashed that market modern fiction the ability to pigeonhole somebody by reference to a known quantity is too tempting to resist. Thus, Ian Rankin is Scotland's James Ellroy. And, for David Peace, those marketing him make reference to his Ellroy type qualities. Thus, &quot;the Yorkshire Ellroy&quot;.<br />Well, to rid ourselves of the similarities. Peace, like Ellroy, writes fiction that does not baulk form dealing with the dark side of huamnity. His writing has a direct quality, that deals with brutal themes. The fiction, like Ellroy, is set in a real place (and - in his later work - draws on real events). <br />But, enough of the comparisons. Ellroy is a consummate stylist, his work finely honed over many years. This is Peace's first novel. We must not expect the same level as Ellroy.<br />However, this is very promising. It is a first person narrative, from Eddie, a journalist, whose father has recently died, and who gets caught up in a series of vicious child murders (some of the most disturbing imagery I have read is in the graphic descriptions of the crime scenes and forensic reports), local government corruption, blackmail, and corrupt racist police officers. On top of this Eddie has work problems, playing second fiddle to Jack Whitehead, the crime reporter of the year, and working with an editor, Hadden, that bows to Jack's greater ability.<br />This is a brutish view of the mid seventies, an unflinching look at a community that produced one of the UK's most notorious serial killers.<br />The first person narrative is generally well done, a startling stream of consciousness that product places, drops lines from songs, and has enough stylistic quirks to satisfy those that will write dissertations and theses of Peace's work in years to come. Sometimes it is too forced (it seems unnecessary to pepper pages with halfremembered song lines and sadly remembered TV advertisements), and the violence of the imagery is disturbing. The characterisation is very strong, particularly Eddie, Hadden, Whitehead, and the one sympathetic police officer, Fraser (the latter three reappearing in Peace's Nineteen Seventy Seven). Plotting is handled well, and the novel is read quickly.<br />The novel is particularly strong on police brutality and corruption (another echo of Ellroy?).  And in this regard the denouement is very powerful (although somewhat over the top).<br />This is an impressive debut, by no means perfect, but indicative of the promise Peace has started to fulfil in the later books in his quartet. It is not James Ellroy, Peace has his own unique voice. But this is heavily stylised noir-ish prose. Peace is one to watch.<br />If you enjoyed this read the later books in the series, or try some of the noir fiction by Vicki Hendricks.	2001-08-16
US	50570484	R33KVDHCMPAPV9	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	3	21	25	N	N	The return of David Kepesh: Eros v Death	A noteworthy feature of contemporary American fiction was the resurgence of Philip Roth.  Eight marvellous books in a row.  His trio of experimental novels: The Counterlife (that gives post modernism a good name); Deception; and Operation Shylock; the intensely moving biography, Patrimony; for this reader the finest novel of the 1990s, Sabbath's Theater, a nihilistic masterpiece of sex, death and despair; and the new Zuckerman trilogy dissecting post war America, American Pastoral; I Married a Communist; and The Human Stain.  Could this great run continue?  Sadly, not.<br />The Dying Animal is a disappointment.  Written in a first person narrative it reintroduces David Kepesh, a Professor of English.  Kepesh is the man that transformed into a breast in Roth's Kafkan fable, The Breast; and detailing the sexual life of a literary academic in Professor of Desire.  Kepesh is a creation of the 1960s, and this new novella indicates that kepesh has not progressed very far.  In order to beat off notions of his mortality Kepesh seduces students (although in a concession to the passage of time, Kepesh no longer seduces them when students, having the decency to wait until they pass through his class).  This brings a whole new meaning to the concept in modenr education of the Staff-Student Liaison Committee.<br />In his monologue, addressed to a listener revealed only in the final paragraphs, Kepesh remembers various lovers concentrating on Consuela, a Cuban emigree.  The intense relationship between the two, and Consuela's subsequent absence and the effect on Kepesh, forms the crux of the novel.<br />The novella is very readable.  Roth remains a wonderful stylist. But, as he has been subject to on previous occasions Roth is criticised for pronography.  This novella is not in my view pornographic.  Certainly there are passages that are explicit, but far more pornographic is Kepesh's relationship with Birgitta in The Professor of Desire - Birgitta, like The Monkey in Portnoy's Complaint, being a girl that would do anything.  The abusive nature of that relationship is pornographic.  The relationships here are not like that (although the ostensible power imbalance inherent in sexual relationships in some recent Roth novels remains).<br />While sex plays a role in the novella it is not its main focus.  Kepesh is worried about growing old, worried about death.  One Scottish poet, Norman MacCaig, said the thing that upsetted him most about growing old was that all his friends were dying.  Ditto, for Kepesh, and so Roth - as he did in The Conterlife and Sabbath's Theater and The Human Stain, wrestles with death.  Sexual activity is used as a means of keeping mortality at bay.  Love is not what keeps Kepesh going, sex is.  This not only underpins the septugenarian Kepesh's life, but also the lives of his friends, even to the death bed.  Kepesh's stroke-ridden friend, a serial adulterer, gropes his wife in his last concerted physical act.<br />One interesting theme developed in the novella is the relationship between Kepesh and his son (another of these father/son relationships beloved by Roth's writing - see the first Zuckerman trilogy - and his reading - such as his praise of John le Carre's A perfect spy).  The son's stumbling path into adultery (based on love) acts as a neat counterpoint to Kepesh's serial philandering.<br />I think this book merits discussion, much thought.  Roth is a serious writer after all.  But, why the  relatively low rating?  For me, there are two principal reasons.  This novella simply revisists themes he has explored before, in more depth, with more rounded characters.  Kepesh's trials here mirror those of Mickey Sabbath in Sabbath's Theater.  Roth is not giving us anything new here.  The second reason relates to the ending.  The return of a character, and their motivation for returning to visit an old man is absurd and lacking credibility.  The absurdity of the final pages serves to undercut the power of some that has gone before.<br />If you enjoyed this novella try Sabbath's Theater, a funnier, angrier, darker take on similar themes.	2001-07-11
US	50570484	R2AMC59H0LPHN9	0811209547	897208528	Christie Malry's Own Double-Entry	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An angry satire but not Johnson's best	BS Johnson is one of those experimental writers, controversial during their lives that subsequently vanishes from print.  Johnson was a journalist, a socialist, and a fine novelist.  Best known for The Unfortunates (his book in a box where every chapter is separately bound and the reader is invited to read them in any order he or she wishes), Christie Malry's Own Double Entry is perhaps his most accessible novel.  <br />However, this &quot;accessibility&quot; is in the midst of a studiedly experimental text.  This is a corruscating satire in which Johnson targets one of the symbols of capitalism, the double entry system.  The very basis of accountancy, and the manipulation of finance, Johnson turns this building block on its head as his central character, Christie Malry, a young man with a future, decides that he will live his life accoridng to the principles of double entry.<br />Johnson's novel has acute observations on a variety of issues in British life that still merit comment.  How working class people come to vote conservative, the manner in which people's worth is measured financially; and all of this is in the midst of an angry satire where Malry wreaks vengeance on the system.  It is a bitter cycnical novel, with a dark wit.<br />There is love, sex, and death; and an unusual use for shaving foam.  And all of this is presented in a slightly distant way, where Johnson continually turns to the reader and winks, letting you know this is a novel.  Characters are aware of their place in fiction, and Johnson deconstructs the novel to let you see how it works.<br />This description may be off putting, but this is classy fiction.  It is funny, and angry.  I enjoyed this work, but preferred Johnson's The Unfortunates; which I feel has more depth, and more humanity.<br />If you enjoyed this you may like Graham Greene's Dr Fischer of Geneva or The Bomb Party or Michael Dibdin's Dirty Tricks (a Thatcherite satire).	2001-06-22
US	50570484	R3D323ORHDFJZ5	0102924996	137830376	Report on Abolition of the Feudal System: Laid Before Parliament by the Lord Advocate Under Section 3(2) of the Law Commissions Act 1965 (Scottish Law Commission Reports)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Goodbye to feudalism	Scotland is virtually unique among modern European legal systems in that two hundred years after the French revolution it maintains a feudal system of landownership.  While this is theoretically true, the modern form of feudalism in Scotland is a much debased version.  Military service vanished centuries ago, as did many of the peculiar forms of regular payment (or reddendo) due from feudal vassal to feudal superior.  In fact the feudal system survived by ceasing to be feudal.  Reciprocal obligations of a personal nature between feudal vassal and superior had vanished to be replaced with a system designed to control property development.  This arose through the use of &quot;real burdens&quot; (broadly equivalent to freehold restrictive covenants in anglo-american systems).  These burdens allowed superiors to privately control development on land.  However, as the years passed the burdens became a way in whcih superiors could extract money form vassals wishing to carry out work on their land contrary to the burdens.  It was this latter practcie that made the survival of the feudal system (a complex anachronistic system) unsustainable.  Accordingly the Scottish Law Commission, the government funded law reform body in Scotland, was asked to put forward recommendations for abolition of the feudal system.<br />This report contains those recommendations.  The report is a masterly exercise, removing the anti-civilian layers of ownership held by superiors and converting the ownership of the vassal to outright ownership, while preserving those aspects within the feudal system that have merit.  Much of the report discusses mechanisms for retaining parts of the system, including certain real burdens for those neighbouring proprietors; as well as consideration of compensation issues. Coupled with the recommendations is a detailed consideration of the policy reasons for the various decisions.<br />Annexed to the report is a draft bill, substantially enacted by the Scottish Parliament in the Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc (Scotland) Act 2000, one of the first susbtantive pieces of legislation passed by the new Scottish Parliament.  As the rules of statutory intrepretation in Scotland allow consideration of the legsilative history of a statute, this report is an invaluable tool in identifying the purpose of the various statutory provisions.<br />This report is also recommended to those interested in comparative law, as it lays down the basis for a new neo-civilian (or western European, not anglo-american) system of property law in Scotland, one of the more interesting modern legal systems.	2001-06-19
US	50570484	R3SWDXM79STFO5	0748661123	881325890	In Between Talking About the Football	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gentle and humane - a writer to watch	Gordon Legge is not as well known as some of those he is marketed with as part of the modern Scottish literary scene. While Irvine Welsh and Alan Warner have had novels adapated for motion pictures, Legge's writing, despite its similarity to the early films of Bill Forsyth, remains little known. This is a pity because Legge has produced some fine modern fiction. <br />His writing has a humanity and gentle wit that the writing of Irvine Welsh and others lacks. Legge is particularly comfortable in the short story form, and this collection of short stories is particularly impressive.<br />From the titles (such joys as &quot;At last, a story about my bike&quot;, &quot;I've got no friends but I've a cat called napalm death&quot; and &quot;When I heard about the Mars Bar the shop was shut&quot;) through each carefully chosen word Legge is a writer to watch. His vignettes of life are like small paintings chronicling the every day existence of his characters.<br />Legge also seems to like, if not love, his characters, the sort of people often ignored by much contemporary literature. Inhabitants of small towns in central Scotland, they are working people, or those subject to years of unemployment. Despite their economic degradation these people maintain their humour, they maintain their basic humanity. Often though Legge writes about their hobbies, their football, their love. Some stories are written in the first person, others in the third. Legge can demonstrate his ability to write experimental fiction with the best of them (his editorial asides in &quot;at last a story about my bike&quot;). But he does not rely on stylistic quirks, instead uses character to make his point.<br />TO describe Legge's work in this way maks him appear to follow a dour central Scottish calvinist model. But that is misleading. His book is funny. The humour stems from character and we do not laugh at those who populate his stories. We laugh with them.<br />Particularly impressive is his Life on AScottish Council estate.<br />Legge's later work grows steadily more assured, and in this collection and in his collection &quot;Near Neighbours&quot; there are some beautiful stories which remind this reader of a Scottish Raymond Carver. For any short story writer there can surely be no higher praise.<br />If you enjoy Carver's fiction give Legge a try.	2001-06-19
US	50570484	RLV5O09R08G35	0563538090	10426558	The Ancestor Cell (Doctor Who)	Books	2	9	9	N	N	A disappointment with too little Interference	This novel is a disappointment.  It is one for completists attempting to tie together lines of continuity.  However, this is not one for the casual fan.  It gives the necessary back story to the eighth Doctor's exile to Earth in The Burning and subsequent stories (including the wonderful Turing Test), but in some ways it is better left unread.   <br />But saying that, this is one of the most important of the new eighth Doctor adventures in the series of Doctor Who novels.  It is important for the very reasons that make it inaccessible to the casual reader.  It is important because of the pivotal position it has in the continuity of the eighth Doctor series of novels.<br />It comes at the end of an arc of stories beginning with Lawrence Miles controversial Interference.  Interference is a wonderfully written complex two part novel.  It deals with big questions of memory and death.  It develops Miles' creation the Faction Paradox, a race bent on meddling with established history.  But, for the Doctor Who fan Interference is important because in this book Miles interfered with Doctor Who orthodoxy, overturning established myhology from the original television series. <br />However, Interference caused the editorial team for the series a problem.  While Miles was bursting with ideas, writing his novels as part of an established series caused problems for those that followed.  Miles had tampered with the Doctor's character, making him an agent for a villainous race; he had killed off an established character (although reintorudcing them in a subtly different form); he had introduced a new companion, Compassion, that in the Miles mythology was to become a walking talking living time machine.<br />At some point, though, somebody had to deal with the implications of Miles' approach.  And editorially, it was decided that the interference Miles had caused should be ditched.  However, rather than doing this casually in a series of novels, it was decided that one novel would address all of the continuity issues.  The Ancestor Cell (co-written by the then editorial adviser) was that novel.  Abrief summary of the plot illustrates the complexity.<br />It is set on Galifrey, the Doctor's home planet.  This is a Galifrey awash with fear, where the Faction Paradox has become increasingly influential.  The Doctor's companion Romana is President of the Time Lords of Galifrey and is attempting to get the Doctor's new time machine in order to protect Galifrey.  Also a mysterious edifice has appeared in the skies above Galifrey, inhabited by a series of bone spiders, and seemingly the prison for one aspect of the Doctor's past selves.  Also cast into the mix are an impossibly elderly version of a past companion of the Doctor, and the Grandfather of the Faction Paradox cult.  The Doctor has to deal with these various aspects.<br />So many different plot and continuity strands do not make for a happy story, and this novel is confused and convoluted.  The conflation of two different writing styles does not help either, the approach reminiscent of the story told of an old Doctor Who story, The Dalek Masterplan, where the script writers each week attempted to conjure a more outrageous cliffhanger to see how thier colleague would get out of it.<br />Too many subsidiary characters fight for limelight.  And while there are some wonderful cameos, the past Lord President of the Time Lords is a wonderful memorable character, the principals - especially the ill used Compassion, a companion of the Doctor, are badly used, as if the wirters are embarrassed about having to deal with the character.<br />Perhaps its problem is that it is too ambitious, but as the end of an era in the stories - the influence of Miles' mythology; and Cole's editorship; as well as ... (well, that would be telling) - it is ultimately a huge disappointment.<br />So, one for completists, not for fans.  And if you want to read how this sort of ambitious work should be written within a longrunning series then you should try Lawrence Miles' Interference or Dead Romance.  Both have ambitious scope, but handled by a thoughtful, and careful writer.	2001-05-08
US	50570484	R21OM39VOOSQIR	0140011307	398754274	The Thirty-Nine Steps (Classic Crime)	Books	3	27	32	N	N	Buchan's &quot;shocker&quot; entertains	Some modern Scottish thriller writers are contrasted (not always favourably) with two perceived greats of Scottish fiction - Robert Louis Stevenson and John Bucahn.  I love Stevenson, the fast pace of his stories, and his characterisation.  This was the first Buchan I read.  While it will not be the last I felt a little disappointed.<br />The Thirty Nine steps is said to be one of the most important novels in the thriller genre. Featuring Richard Hannay a former South African miner, who is caught in a spy story, the effects of which may lead to war in western Europe.<br />The story is fast moving.  Hannay is placed in predicament after predicament (like the Perils of Pauline) following the discovery of a body in his London flat.  He escapes to Galloway, then Dumfriesshire (rural south west Scotland).  Pursued by both police and foreign agents Hannay's life is at risk - and we witness his use of a number of disguises, and his experience as a mining engineer, in escaping each predicament.<br />At times the novel feels like a loosely related series of escapades, but the final chapters (as in Childers' The riddle of the sands) pull the disparate strands together satisfyingly.  Fast paced with an appealing central character, the novel is recommended as a quick and easy entertainment.  However, there are some flaws readers ought to be aware of.<br />In the Scottish sections of the novel Buchan writes the dialogue of the locals in dialect, contrasting this with the the &quot;received pronunication&quot; of the other characters.  As a technique it appears to belittle the validity of the dialect spoken, and appears to patronise the locals.  Although, Buchan's sleight here is countered by his portrayal of the locals.  They share a certain cunning and deviousness.  Additionally, the use of dialect (and a particular type of lowland Scots dialect) renders parts of the text difficult to follow.<br />Most concerning about the book is the inherent anti-semitism.  Analgoies and metaphors rely on negative imagery of jews; and one of the characters (scudder) is overtly anti-semitic in his comments. While this was a prevalent attitude in a certain strata of British writing pre- World War Two, it jars today - and rendered parts of the novel, for this reader, offensive.<br />Buchan is certainly readable, but his work has dated.  His influence is apparent in the work of Greene, and inherent in his work are the influences of American thriller writers of the early twentieth century, and Conan Doyle's Holmes, Challenger, and Brigadier Gerard stories.<br />If you enjoyed this novel you might want to try Graham Greene's Gun for sale; The Confidential Agent; Stamboul Train; and The Ministry of fear.	2001-02-13
US	50570484	R2BWRR4P2JVL6S	0198299419	752081101	A History of Private Law in Scotland (Vol 1 & v.2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Indispensable guide to history of Scots law	Scotland has a small but important legal system, for Scotland is what is called a &quot;mixed legal system&quot;.  Like South AFrica, Quebec and Louisiana Scotland has been influenced by the civilian (Roman law) tradition from continental Europe; and (due to its proximity to England) by the common law, anglo-american tradition.  While unusual, as the European Union works towards harmonisation of its private law, Scotland is taking on a pivotal role.  The Scottish legal system is a working example of how common law and civil law can work together in one system.  Scotland therefore finds itself at the centre of European harmonisation projects.<br />This background perhaps explains the involvement of one of the editors of the volume, Professor Reinhard Zimmermann.  He, one of the foremost legal academics in Germany, is a proponent of the new jus commune (common European private law).  The other editor, Kenneth Reid is a Law Commissioner (a law reformer), and Professor of Property law at Edinburgh University.<br />Together the editors have collected the cream of Scottish academia to produce a definitive history of private law in Scotland (Specifically the law of property, and the law of obligations (comprising the law of unjustified enrichment, contract, and delict (or tort)).  The articles focus on discrete subjects in private law, and allow authors in tracing the historical development to assess the extent to which the law stems from old Scottish common law, English influence, or influence from the civilina tradition (particularly through Dutch writings).<br />This is a majestic publication, virtually every article being of the highest quality.  It is unfair to select particular contributions, but the following stand out for this reviewer.  Firstly Professor John Cairns has produced a concise history of Scots law.  This is masterful, and acts as a wonderful introduction to historians and lawyers to Scottish legal history.<br />Singling out contributions is unwise buta special mention should be made of Prof John Blackie's chapter on the law of defamation and verbal injury.  It is a majstic work, clearly demonstrating the influence of Voet, a Dutch jurist, on the writing of Bankton, a Scottish writer; and thus demonstrating the influence of the Dutch work on the future development of Scots law.<br />To know a country's law and to determine how a country's laws should be chnaged one needs to know about the country's history.  this book ably satisfies this requirement.  It is one of the most important Scottish legal textbooks of the twentieth century.  Its influence will live long.<br />Anyone interested in legal history should acquire this book.	2001-02-09
US	50570484	R1HDD7YDVYK0RH	0156551276	643398473	Maigret and the Apparition (Harvest/HBJ Book)	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Dialogue heavy detecting by numbers	This is the first Maigret novel I have read, although I have heard audio dramatisations of the stories and seen televisations.  I was a little disappointed.  Aware that Simenon produced a vast number of books, almost a production line of material, I did not have high expectations of its qualities.  The novel did not transcend them.<br />The basic plot is simple: a police colleage of Maigret is shot.  He is badly injured, his last words before slipping into unconsciousness relate to &quot;an apparition&quot;.  Maigret is brought into the case and investigates, initially as a controlling force, later through direct interviewing.  The investigation leads Maigret into the heart of the Parisian art world, and a sordid world it is too.<br />Simenon's writing technique is to describe little.  The plot is pushed forward by dialogue, and it is dialogue that accounts for the characterisation.  <br />There is something to be said for this approach in certain stories, and in works by some writers the sparseness of description and revelation through dialogue becomes valuable.  However, in such writers dialogue does not also bear the burden of progressing the story.  The technique (as used by Carver, Kelman, et al) is most effective in stories where little happens.  Alterntaively, it can be useful where there is clear first person narration.   Sadly, here a lot happens, and the novel is in the third person.  The technique is functional at best.<br />The characterisation appears to be perfunctory, although the reviewer accepts that increased familiarity with the characters in a series of novels inevitably increases the depth of characterisation - and as this is a first reading the subtler nuances of the characters may be missed.<br />Maigret himself and his wife are most fully drawn, and there are some charming side characters (including a voyeur who keeps watch over his neighbourhood noting the comings and goings from a Dutch art colllectors home; and the wealthy Ducth art collector himself).<br />In some ways the novel feels like a film treatment, and it is perhaps with actors filling the roles that the characters would take on a little vitality.<br />This book was not for me, but in its favour it was quickly read.  Perhaps the best of Simenon lies elsewhere...	2001-02-08
US	50570484	RPAKMO0YP3EDP	0375411615	58613094	Love, etc.	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Barnes treading water	Julian Barnes is capable of writing great novels.  Staring at the Sun; and Flaubert's Parrot are both excellent - the latter particularly representative of the best of Barnes's writing style.  This style is similar in some ways to the later novels of Milan Kundera, where plot and character study are secondary to the ideas that are explored in various digressions.  (Although at his best Barnes has a sympathy for character - especially female characters - that Kundera either does not achieve or is not interested in).  Indeed, in a recent collection of critical essays James Wood suggested that Barnes is more of an essay writer than a novelist, and this can be seen especially in Flaubert's Parrot and A History of the world in 10 1/2 chapters.  <br />Given the high standards of the best of Barnes's fiction his readership have certain expectations that if not met lead to great disappointment.  Julian Barnes' last novel, England, England was one such disappointment.  A heavy handed satire, toying with notions of nationality and nationhood, it somehow found its way onto the Booker Prize shortlist (perhaps saying more about the paucity of modern British fiction and the quality of the judging panel than the quality of the novel).  It is disappointing to note that the novel under review, Love etc, is not a return to form.<br />Love etc is a belated sequel to Talking it over (1991), and was the name of a French film adapted from Talking it over in 1997.  Talking it over itself seemed to stem from the half chapter in a History of the World in 10 1/2 chapters - an essay on the meaning of love.  Taliking it over had three principal characters, Stuart - the quiet boring one; Oliver - the flamboyant pretentious one; and Gillian - the sensible one.  The three characters were caught in a love triangle.  The plot seemed to echo that enjoyed so often by new wave French cinema.  The novelty of Barnes approach was that each character took it in turns to address the reader.  The novel wasan exercise in perspective and unreliable narration (some years after Martin Amis's similar Success).<br />Love etc. adopts the same approach.  There are the three central characters picking up where Talking it Over left of.  They are ten years older, little wiser.  Stuart is still relatively boring, has somehow managed to make a lot of money in the US, has remarried and separated, and keeps something nasty in his wallet; Oliver is a waster, still pretentious, still in love with Gillian; and Gillian is still relatively sensible.  There is a greater role in this novel for Gillian's mother, whose gnostic words of wisdom litter the novel like Confuscian thought.  The characters also still directly address the reader.<br />There are advantages in this approach.  When done well the character's approach to the reader is not mediated through an ominscient authorial voice.  When done well, the reader is shown how the same event can be viewed in many different ways by different observers.  However, where the stylistic device gave Talking it over its novelty, grates here.  We've seen it done before and the process feels like an exercise in ventriloquism.  The characters all seem like different facets of one character, rther than distinct personae.  The characters are too alike, their individuality based on stylistic quirks (Oliver uses big words; Stuart is banal), rather than any particular revelations of character.<br />Barnes gives the novel a &quot;shock&quot; ending which while handled sensitively seemed like an attempt to give the novel an issue to deal with rather than a necessary action of the characters.<br />This novel is disappointing, and this review has picked out what for this reviewer were weaknesses.  Saying that, what is disappointing for Barnes is still a level above most contemporary English literary fiction.<br />The novel is very readable.  It has a wry wit; and raises interesting observations and questions on the nature of love.  However, I think, ultimately, that the novel fails.  <br />This novel can be read without having read Talking it over, but the characters have more depth if Love etc is read after Talking it over.<br />If you want to try a Barnes novel I suggest Flaubert's Parrot or Staring at the sun.  If you enjoy Love etc, try Alain de Botton's Essays in Love, or - in a very different style - Ivan Klima's Love and Garbage.	2001-01-15
US	50570484	RLHP0WRLE9Q85	0671255479	964212930	Doctor Fischer of Geneva: Or, the Bomb Party	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Late Greene - cynical bitter wit.  Please reprint.	I enjoy Graham Greene's earlier work immensely.  The manner in which a tense readable, complicated (morally, emotionally, but rarely plotwise), literary story can be written using the conventions of genre.  Many of Greene's later stories leave me cold.  There is the occasional masterpiece (The Human Factor), but some of the work feels slight, painting Greene by numbers.  And one recalls the true story of the magazine competition in the UK where competitors were asked to provide a parody of an opening paragraph by Greene.  No prizes for guessing the winner...<br />Dr Fischer of Geneva or The Bomb Party is late Greene.  It is very short, unremittingly bleak in its outlook on humanity (or rather one sector of society), and is a savage sarcastic satire on capitalism.<br />Fischer is a multi-millionaire, his fortune founded on human hygiene.  At regular parties he surrounds himself with acolytes, all rich, all prepared to go through humiliation for one of Fischer's gifts.  Fischer is cold, cruel, manipulative.  The narrator's encounters with Fischer and his parties spawn disgust on many levels - Fischer's view of others; the visceral disgust of his &quot;porridge&quot; party; and the disgust of the corruption of money, and the greed that goes with it.<br />Aside from the (allegorical?) examination of capitalism all aspects of human life are here.  We see poverty, extreme wealth, love, and death.  And in illustrating these aspects the relationships in the book are conveyed powerfully (be the underlying emotion affection or anger).  The relationship between Fischer and his daughter, a gentle creature abhorring her father's attitude and more particularly the attitude of those acolytes of Fischer (whom she christens &quot;toads&quot;); and that of Fischer's late wife and her friend/lover are especially noteworthy.<br />The book is short, but the imagery of Fischer's parties, his humiliations, and the bleakness of his view of humanity will live long with this reviewer.<br />It is a minor book, but highly recommended.  Still in print in the UK it is perhaps time for a US publisher to reprint this later work of one of the twentieth century's greatest novelists.	2001-01-12
US	50570484	R2NU5ULPXC5J93	0151768439	43473074	Call for the Dead	Books	3	123	133	N	N	Important for what came later	This is le Carre's first novel.  It has the merit of brevity, and this brevity is coupled with a plot just complicated enough for the length.<br />It is an important book, but not for its contents.  It introduces George Smiley, Peter Guillam, Mendel of Special Branch, and Mundt of East German intelligence.  The latter was to play a pivotal role in The Spy WHo came in from the Cold; Mendel in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy; Guillam in The Karla Trilogy; and Smiley?  Well, Smiley is the key figure in le Carre's fiction - probably the most famous figure in all spy fiction.  And it is for Smiley's introduction that the novel is important.  Here, we find some of the history of his marriage to Lady Ann, we find some of his background, his work during the war, his time as an interrogator; and - a curiosity - Smiley as protagonist, a man of (occasional) action, rather than the deskbound thinker so familiar from later books.<br />The plot can be summarised simply.  Smiley has interviewed an individual about allegations of spying.  After the interview they die, apparently at their own hand, leaving a note which suggests that Smiley's interview led to the death.  Smiley investigates whether this was suicide or murder?  Was the deceased a spy?  He is led to a confrontation with individuals from East German intelligence.<br />The writing style is workmanlike, although there is some foreshadowing of later le Carre obsessions.  There are musings on the nature of betrayal (personal betrayal in a relationship, and public betrayal of a country); there is the conflict which rests at the heart of Smiley, a moral man acting in a way which may be immoral to achieve a greater objective.<br />Characterisation is perfunctory, only Smiley being adequately realised.  But throughout this book and the later A Murder of Quality the characters seem ancillary to plot, and Smiley himself seems distant, cold.  This reviewer did not care about the characters.<br />The novel is entertaining enough, but contrasted with the high standards set by le Carre's later fiction is disappointing.<br />This is one for le Carre completists.  If you've not read le Carre before do not start here.  The Spy who came in from the cold; and the Karla trilogy are as good as any post-war English fiction.	2001-01-03
US	50570484	R8RMZEU8LRAIP	0312268033	868869890	Mr. Mee	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Another wonderful playful novel from Crumey	This novel deals with big questions.  What exactly is the link between Rousseau, the internet, and Jimmy Shand (a well known Scottish accordion player)?  And is fire a lifeform?<br />Andrew Crumey is one of a new type of British writers, more interested in a tradition exemplified by Borges, Calvino, Barthelme, and Kundera, than another suburban study of the   humdrum lives of humdrum people. (Dan Rhodes is another writing in this way) In reviews elsewhere on these pages I have made reference to his place within this seam of writing, the novel of ideas.<br />Crumey is an exemplary model in this regard.  His previous novels include Music in a foreign language (a Calvinoesque look at fiction and love); Pfitz; and D'Alembert's Principle (the latter two books in a loosely related triptych on memory, reason, and imagination concluded by this novel).  In this novel there are echoes of these earlier works throughout, and their themes, and some of the characters and ideas, permeate this new novel.  And like those previous works this novel is a Chinese box.  This time there are three interlinking narratives - Mr Mee's own introduction to the internet and Rosier's Encyclopaedia; the story of two copyists that disturb Jean Jacques Rousseau's peaceful retreat (Ferrand and Minard, two characters referred to fleetingly in Rousseau's Confessions, that have something of man of Porlock of them); and the confession of an academic studying eighteenth century French fiction.  The strands come together wonderfully.<br />Crumey's fiction taps the rich source of eighteenth century French philosophical thinking (as well as modern variants).  However, to refer to this gives a misleading impression of the novel.  His work is clever, but his intellect is worn lightly. The novels set you thinking.  But, most importantly, Andrew Crumey is very funny. Like his previous novels this is witty and charming.  <br />Andrew Crumey gets better and better.  I very much look forward to his next work.	2000-12-15
US	50570484	RE6LQLNQZSCYV	0375420983	348675377	Thanksgiving	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Dibdin's finest novel - transcending the genre	Michael Dibdin is one of genre fictions great writers. And as well as being a fine prose stylist Dibdin is versatile. He has written a fine modern series, the Aurelio Zen books, which concluded with the near perfect Blood Rain; has written witty (and erudite) parodies such as The Last Sherlock Holmes Story and The Dying of the Light; and atmospheric thrillers, such as The Tryst.  His recent work has suggested a certain tiredness with genre. In some ways the elegiac Blood Rain almost seemed a goodbye to genre. That background has led to his latest novel,  Thanksgiving. It is a slight book in size but deals majestically with large themes.<br />The premise is simple : a widower attempts to find out about his late wife's life before she met him. He is a British journalist, she an American previously married to a redneck. To prepare for  his meeting with the first husband, the protagonist takes a pistol.<br />The opening chapter is a tour de force. Atmosphere is convincing, and the tension of the meeting between the two men linked only by their late lover is cranked up through Dibdin's typical mastery of dialogue. <br />This confrontation with the past permeates the rest of the novel, and throughout Dibdin deals with love, loss, memory, and identity.<br />As with all his work the characterisation is deftly drawn. Particularly noteworthy are the first husband, and the protagonist's stepdaughter. The relationship that provides the hub of the novel is convincing, and the grief, and bereavement, are touchingly illustrated. One of Dibdin's merits as a stylist (a development in his more recent work particularly) is his tendency to show and not tell and at times this can lead to some writing appearing obtuse. This is no fault, and in a book such as this the dreamlike quality that pervades the novel is reminiscent of other great studies of longing, love, and desire such as Schnitzler's Dream Story.<br />The territory covered in this novel was also dealt with in Julian Barnes witty novel, Before she met me. It says much of modern British fiction that it is the well-known genre writer's novel that will live long in the memory, and that the much-feted Barnes' work seems slight in comparison. <br />For this reviewer, this is unquestionably Dibdin's finest novel.	2000-12-15
US	50570484	R1PEX8J4SNYVPG	0375504214	842724523	Anthropology	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Short story collection of the year - 2000	Anthropology is the first book by Dan Rhodes.  It was published in the UK in early 2000 to little publicity.  Seeing a copy in a bookshop I picked it up, read a few of the 101 word stories, purchased; and during the year have been thrusting the book onto friends, and relatives telling them they must read it.<br />This collection of stories cannot be simply categorised.  Their common threads are that each is 101 words long, each deals with an aspect of a relationship (with an increasingly bizarrely named collection of female partners).  The stories are very short, dark, cynical, bitter, moving.  But, most importantly they are peppered with humour, sometimes gentle, sometimes surreal, sometimes absurd, sometimes harsh.  In brief vignettes Rhodes says more about love and masculinity, than is said in far longer works.<br />It took me one train journey to first read the book through, but this is too indulgent.  The stories are as distilled as poetry, should be savoured.  Since the first reading I have returned to the book regularly, and will often recall scenarios, brief expressions.  <br />Part Borges, part Calvino, part Brautigan, this short story collection was for me book of the year in 2000.  <br />If you enjoy Calvino's Invisible Cities, Brautigan's Revenge of the Lawn, anything by Borges, or James Meek's Last Orders you will enjoy this book.	2000-12-15
US	50570484	R1POKDVK4HENTZ	0563538066	933978564	The Turing Test (Doctor Who Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Doctor Who in Greeneland	When I was a youngster the Doctor Who novelisations produced by Target sparked my interest in reading.  The likes of Terrance Dicks, Gerry Davis, Ian Marter, and Malcolm Hulke provided me with much pleasure and led me to explore more of the local library before I ventured into &quot;more serious&quot; fiction.  Those early novels were formulaic and this is wittily shown in an essay by Paul Magrs, a wonderful British novelist whose work seems to draw on magical realism from Gabriel Marquez and Terrance Dicks, where he explains how these early Target books influenced his writing.  In those early Target books certain nouns always had the same qualifying adjectives.  Pockets were capacious.  Hair was &quot;a mass of curls&quot; or &quot;an unruly mop&quot;.  <br />It had been some years since I read a Doctor Who novel, and it was Paul Magrs move into the stable of BBC writers that led me to read one or two of the recent novels.  The books today are very different to the fiction of fifteen  or more years ago.  They are well written adult science fiction.  Things do not always work out for the best.  Life is not simple.  Characters are no longer brief descriptions recalling much enjoyed television stories but are fleshed out, alive.<br />The Turing Test is a fine example of the modern Doctor WHo novel, and indeed may be a level or two above the norm.  Set in the Second World War and featuring as central characters Alan Turing, codebreaker, Graham Greene, spy and occasional novelist, and Joseph Heller, pilot and future novelist; the story features the eighth incarnation of the Doctor.  Stranded on earth he has lost his memory, and is wandering waiting for a meeting in St Louis in 2001.  It features codes, and aliens; but also meditations on sex and sexuality, the value of humanity, and the nature of fighting.<br />The novel is divided into three sections.  One written from the perspective of Turing, one Greene, one Heller. Each is in the first person.  The conceit in lesser hands would have failed but Paul Leonard mimics the styles of the latter two well, and provides a distinctive voice to the lonely Turing.  As someone that has read a lot of Greene lately I feel that Leonard's writing evoked something of Greeneland.<br />The particular value of Leonard's style and structure is that in giving each character an opportunity to speak their character can be revealed in a manner that does not require revelation upon revelation.  Further, each character's perspective being very different - from Turing's naivety, through Greene's bitter cynicism, to Heller's battling pacifism - we are shown different facets of the Doctor, the central character.  For a character with a huge past (to his fanbase) placed in a story arc based on a breakdown and terrible amnesia, this novel succeeds in casting new light on him.<br />It is an impressive adult sci-fi novel.  Mr Leonard is to be congratulated.<br />Readers are referred to the first novel in the arc, The Burning by Justin Richards, and Paul Magrs The Scarlet Empress, for other very good examples of the new Doctor Who novels.	2000-11-27
US	50570484	R1F5U3OUCS8MSU	0140286829	683023613	The Third Man	Books	3	22	24	N	N	An interesting curiosity, but by no means a classic	Greene's novella of The Third Man reminds me a lot of Whit Masterton's Badge of Evil (adapted by Orson Welles for Touch of Evil).  It is a pacy story, exciting, with enough to keep a reader's interest, but when contrasted with the film that followed it does not bear comparison.<br />This is simply a film treatment.  It was a novella written by Greene to provide a plot, and characters for an original screenplay director Carol Reed wished him to write (following an earlier successful collaboration).  It was never intended to be a stand alone novel.  And in a fascinating introduction Greene advises the reader of the changes forced on the original screenplay in the collaboration.  <br />In the novel the story is narrated by Major Calloway, and is reliant on other's recollections of events (notably the writer Rollo Martins).  The central character (Joseph Cotten in the film) is Rollo, not Holly Martins.  Rollo being an English writer of Westerns under the pen name Buck Dexter.  This leads to a &quot;comic&quot; misunderstanding where Martins is mistaken for a great English Man of Letters, B Dexter.  Never convincing the change to an American lead ejects this from the film, and allows the comedy of the literary meeting to arise from Martins championing by Calloway's sergeant in the film.<br />The change to an American lead in the film, and therefore the change in nationality of Harry Lime (originally to have been played by Noel Coward, but thankfully played by Orson Welles in the film) meant that an anicllary character (Cooler) became Romanian in the final film - in order to avoid upsetting American filmgoers.  <br />Aside from the changes to character, there are one or two alterations to plot (particularly in relation to Anna).<br />The novella as a stand alone text is a passable entertainment, and demonstrates Greene's ability at creating quirky interesting characters, and giving a novel a sense of place and atmosphere.  Vienna is wonderfully evoked (although whether this stems simply from the writing, or is recollections of a wonderful film, I cannot be certain).  It does not rank alongside the great Greene entertainments, such as Our Man in Havana; and certainly cannot rate with great novels like The Power and the Glory, The Human Factor, or The Heart of the Matter.<br />This is little more than an interesting curiosity, an opportunity for a reader to view the rough draft of a screenplay for one of the greatest films ever made.  From it we learn that Greene could not write a book that was not entertaining, but we also see just how much of a role Carol Reed, actors, and music, had in creating the final film.  Film is very much a collaborative process, and this film treatment was written with that very much in mind.	2000-11-07
US	50570484	R2GPTDB4F7SUCA	0452272726	296956896	The Eye in the Door	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fine novel in a wonderful trilogy	The first world war exerts a strange facsination for British writers.  In recent years Alan Bleasdale (in television's The Monocled Mutineer), Sebastian Faulks, and Pat Barker, have all produced fine work relating to the war to end all wars.  Even a fine genre writer like Reginald Hill (in The Wood Beyond) writes about the era.  <br />The reasons for turning to this era are manifold.  For the United Kingdom it marked the end of the nineteenth century, the beginning of the twentieth, in that the role of women in society, and that of the working class, changed forever.  Emancipated, and  with a democratic voice, British politics then changed.  <br />Pat Barker's early novels engage with big social questions.  Her novels set in northern English towns consider the class structure, and feminist issues, amid a &quot;gritty&quot; landscape.  Her &quot;Regeneration&quot; trilogy is something of a departure in ostensible subject matter - but considering British social history, one can see why Barker turned to the era.<br />The Eye in the Door is the middle book in the trilogy.  It is probably the poor relation in the trilogy, but is in many ways the most interesting novel.  Where, Regeneration is set among the recuperating servicemen at the Craiglockhart hospital, this novel is English-based.  Set in and around a government ministry in London and the north of England, it evokes a sense of society at the time.  Barker also merges fact and fiction - using real life characters (such as the poet Seigfreid Sassoon and Dr W H Rivers) and situations (a libel trial based on a supposed list of deviants in the upper echelons of British society), and merging them in to her fictional backdrop.<br />This is aided by the central character, Billy Prior.  Prior is working class, but an officer.  Bisexual, he has no shame about his sexuality.  Prior is a masterful character.  Having been anicllary in Regeneration (which focussed on the relationship between Seigfried Sassoon and Rivers), Prior becomes the focus of the trilogy.  His character out of sorts in both worlds he inhabits (from his own home and as a working class boy in the ministry).  <br />My favourite character, though, is W H Rivers.   Rivers was a great man.  he developed more sensitive techniques to treat those suffering form shell shock, and his work at Craiglockhart was of tremendous importance.  In the novels, his quandary in having to cure those damaged by war to send back to the front, to the root of their injury, is brought into sharp focus.  This novel sketches in more of Rivers background (pyschological and emotional).<br />There is much haunting imagery in Barker's novel.  The central image of the eye in the door - the eyehole in a prison door where the prisoner is kept in solitary confinement - is wonderfully drawn, permeating the dreams of Prior.  The imagery of those kept in solitary confinement for their objection to the war will live long with me.<br />Barker is also a fine convincing writer of dialogue.<br />This novel is highly recommended.  Although, it can be read as a stand alone novel, I think its impact is heightened when Regeneration has been read.	2000-11-03
US	50570484	R2SX0RMDZZFY58	0679768548	900605396	Ratking (An Aurelio Zen Mystery)	Books	4	85	88	N	N	The opening of a great series	Michael Dibdin is a genre writer of many styles.  He has written stand alone thrillers, The Tryst and Dark Spectre, parodies, The Last Sherlock Homes Story and The Dying of the Light, and one of the great modern detective series - the Aurelio Zen novels.  This is the first novel in that series.  Critically applauded at the time of original publication (and winner of the British CWA Gold Dagger Award for crime novel of the year) it perhaps deserves reappraisal in the light of the other books in the series.<br />The Zen novels take place around Italy, this in Perugia.  Zen is seconded there from Rome, following political pressure being placed on his superiors.  The pressure is brought because an important businessman has been kidnapped, and in the many months he has been missing the local police seem to be having trouble finding the kidnappers.  Zen's imposition is resented by locals, and his intervention used by members of the businessman's family, and the local prosecutors.<br />In its favour the novel has a strong sense of place, Perugia being well evoked; and wonderful characterisation.  Zen is one of  the great fictional detectives.  He starts here a man on the shelf.  Having been sidelined during a kidnapping investigation many years before, he has been out of operative duty for some time.  He is not quite as he seems, not wholly corrupt, a man au fait with the politics of the police force.  There are many contradictions in his character.  Also, Zen is an outsider.  He is from Venice, the wrong part of the country for some.  <br />Zen's opening scene in the novel says much of his character.  As a robbery takes place on a train, he sits by and watches.  He is berated by his fellow passengers, then at the next station leaves the train to make some phone calls.  The reader is never completely sure where they stand with Zen.<br />The sketchy family background hinted at in this novel is fleshed out in later novels.<br />However, the joy in this novel is the strengthof the minor characters.  The Miletti family (the kidnapped man's children) and their partners are well drawn.  The Marxist prosecutor is a wonderful character.  Partly jealous at the Miletti fortune, partly zealous to perform his job well, but never above playing political games.  Characterisation is brought out through small actions, minor insults.  Sometimes Dibdin tells the reader, rather than showing (e.g. the treatment of Ivy Cook at an early family dinner).  These glitches are less pronounced in later novels in the series.<br />The plotting is sound, the novel part puzzle, part atmospheric.  It is an enjoyable work.  It is in the subsequent novels in the series where plotting is tightened, and characterisation strengthened, together with the increasing familiarity with the principal and his regular support, that Dibdin's strengths as a writer really show.<br />If you enjoyed Ratking try Dibdin's Cabal or Vendetta, or the Dalziel and Pascoe series of novels of Reginald Hill (Particularly Deadheads, Bones and Silence, or A Killing Kindness) or Ian Rankin's Mortal Causes or The Black Book (two Rebus novels).	2000-10-16
US	50570484	REPG6EODEJTGF	0312966776	597134252	Black and Blue: An Inspector Rebus Mystery (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Rankin's finest	Ian Rankin is described as the father of tartan noir, and Scotland's answer to James Ellroy.  I would disagree with the latter description - Ellroy being a great prose stylist, with an approach, and an ability to plot all of his own.  However, Rankin is a good writer, and with Black and Blue he has written a great novel.<br />This novel probably stands comparison with Ellroy more then some of Rankin's other work.  There are two principal reasons for this.  Firstly, Rankin brings together fact and fiction, merging them seamlessly into an entertaining whole; secondly, he demonstrates a mastery of running four concurrent labyrinthine plotlines that come together in a gripping conclusion.<br />The novel focuses on a series of killings by an individual nicknamed, Johnny Bible.  These crimes echo those of late 1960s Glasgow where &quot;Bible John&quot; killed three women in a series of unsolved crimes that ended as abruptly as they started.  The meshing of fact and fiction is handled adroitly.<br />The interlinking plots have as their hub, Rankin's regular Inspector John Rebus.  Rebus is divorced, hard-drinking, and a compelling presence over the series of novels.<br />Here, the plots include the Johnny Bible killings, a vicious gangland murder on the outskirts of Edinburgh, and a media programme on miscarriages of justice reviving an elderly case Rebus was involved in as a young detective.  Navigation around the plots is not straightforward, but the links between the seemingly disparate strands are made with mastery.<br />Rankin's prose style is not innovative, but he deftly draws characters, and some of the incidental characters here, e.g. DCI Grogan, a detective in Aberdeen, and Major Weir, a Scot-loving American oil magnate, are deftly sketched in such a manner that you can see their having a life off the page.  The central character remains the majestic Rebus.  From menace (resolving a problem for a colleague) to mawkish sentimentality (his memories of a murdered prostitute) Rebus is one of the most compelling characters in the genre.  He reacts erratically, and because of this seems all the more human.  Rankin is to be congratulated on this wonderful creation.<br />However, these elements are present in most Rebus novels.  What is it that prompted the description as &quot;Rankin's finest&quot;?  For this Scot  the reason is Rankin's engagement with modern Scotland.  He looks at the oil industry, social deprivation, and drug culture.  Rankin's novels are &quot;state of the nation&quot; books, revealing many facets of society.  Sometimes he drops into hectoring pedagogical mode, more often these observations inform the plotting, and the characterisation.<br />At his best Rankin is as good as anyone in the genre.  And this is Rankin at his best.<br />If you enjoyed this novel try Ian Rankin's Set in Darkness or The Hanging Garden; Denise Mina's Garnethill; or James Ellroy's The Black Dahlia or The Big Nowhere.	2000-10-09
US	50570484	R30QL45LKEX18L	1565846052	342108579	Faceless Killers: A Mystery (Kurt Wallander Mysteries)	Books	3	64	69	N	N	Entertaining procedural let down by poor translation	Henning Mankell was a new writer to me, but having seen comparisons of his genre fiction with that of Ian Rankin I tried this novel.<br />This is the first in Mankell's Inspector Wallander series.  Set in rural Sweden it is a police procedural.  The opening chapters of the novel are gripping.  It begins with a vicious murder to which Wallander is called.  There are few clues, other than the last word of the second murder victim, &quot;Foreigners&quot;.  When news of this leaks out Wallander is drawn into a series of racially motivated incidents, and investigations around camps holding asylum seekers.<br />The tension is built up well in the first half of the novel, and the investigation of the murder, and the racial incidents, maintains high interest.  The second half of the novel is more slackly paced, the denouement slightly disappointing.<br />Wallander is a fascinating character, and while the novel is third person narrative, so much is written from Wallander's perspective that the novel might as well be in the first person.  Wallander is not the most likeable of characters.  He has a strained relationship with his father and daughter, has recently separated, and falls into a number of stereotypes as the &quot;loner&quot; cop.  Wallander's flaws, his racism (his observations on asylum seekers, for example), and his misogyny, for example, create a rounded well-drawn character.  You may not like Wallander but so crafted is the character that his motivation is comprehensible.<br />However, the depth given to Wallander means that supporting characters suffer.  Wallander's father - never satisfied, slightly ill-tempered, and suffering from a serious illness - has potential to be an interesting character, but seems instead to act as a checkbox to note Wallander's famly troubles.  Others have a poorer fate.  The prosecutor (and putative lust interest) Ms Brolin is one character that seems particularly flat.  So ill-drawn are some of the characters that one wonders if afirst person narrative may suit Mankell more, allowing Wallander the depth, and giving the excuse of Wallander's perception of others  to justify their poorer treatment.<br />With this flaw, Wallander's work reminds me more of RD Wingfield's Frost series than Rankin's Rebus - where incidental characters tend to be fleshed out.<br />Most serious flaw in the novel, though, is the translation.  Mankell's prose is rendered in a stilted manner, with a number of glaring grammatical problems.  Mankell seems ill-served by a tin-eared translation.<br />This was an enjoyable novel, that started very well, but tailed off towards its conclusion.  Wallander is a character I would like to see more of, and I intend to read other books of Mankell's.  The series does hold much promise.  But if you're looking for the new Ian Rankin try elsewhere (e.g. Denise Mina).	2000-10-09
US	50570484	R3BAOM8KT2PK74	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Much more than a police procedural	In modern British fiction writing much of the interesting work (engaging with social issues, politics, and class) is found with genre writers.  As  some novelists retreat into an insular examination of the lives and loves  of writers (and other creative types), genre writers - in dealing with the  underside of humanity - can examine the big questions.  At the vanguard of  modern British crime writing are the likes of Ruth Rendell, Denise Mina,  John Harvey, Michael Dibdin, and the writer of the book under review, Val  McDermid.  <br />McDermid is an interesting writer.  Her previous books have  included a PI series, and pyschological thrillers that geuninely shock  (such as The Mermaids Singing).  This book, A Place of Execution, is  something of a departure.<br />It falls readily into two principal parts.  The  first section comprises a police procedural.  It is set at the time of the  notorious Moors Murders in 1963 (what is it with British writers and 1963?   John Lawton's A Little White Death and Reginald Hill's Recalled to Life,  also use the year as a starting point).  The Moors Murders were child  killings that horrified British society and still have an effect today.  As  the novel opens a child goes missing in a small isolated village. The child  is the step daughter of the local squire.  A new police inspector is  involved, and this first section follows his investigation.  It is written  in the third person, but the chief protagonist is the inspector and we  follow his attempts to win the trust of the small community, and the police  politics that is played out in the background.  One does not wish to give  too much away about the investigation, as there are a number of twists  throughout this section.  But the section concludes with a trial at which  the inspector's own character and motivation is questioned.<br />McDermid  excels at the portrayal of the effect of the loss of a child on a family  and on a community.  Also convincing are the relationshipsMcDermid draws.   The developing friendship between the investigating police sergeant, and  the recently graduated inspector; the close relationship between the  inspector and his wife (a peripheral character in the novel, but a  convincing anchor of stability in his personal life); and the manner in  which he wins the trust of local people.  There are some grotesque local  characters created; but coming from a small locality myself these  characters are not out of place, and are only symptomatic of a general  approach to non-locals.  The class distinction between the squire and the  villagers is also acutely observed.<br />If the novel were to stop at the  conclusion of the trial there would be a highly satisfying genre  procedural.<br />However, it is with an audacious second half that McDermid  excels.  It transpires that the first half is a memoir written by a  journalist.  The inspector then tries to block publication.  <br />In this  section we follow the professional writer researching, gathering  information, and examining an incident from over thirty years before.  Many  of the characters in the first half are revisited, older, and with  prejudices reinforced, or challenged by their own experiences.<br />Character  development is wonderful , and the investigation becomes a gripping  thriller.<br />In this section McDermid turns all that you have accepted in  the first half on its head.  <br />This is an excellent novel.  Its  characterisation is, without exception, of the highest quality; and it is  strongly plotted.  Its sole flaw, to my mind, is the conclusion.  It is  bold, but not wholly convincing.  However, for me, its merits outweigh  this.  This is compelling, and looks at the extremes of love and loss.  I  cannot recommend it highly enough.<br />If you enjoy this book I would suggest  you try On Beulah Height by Reginald Hill, which has similar virtues, and  is as well written.	2000-08-17
US	50570484	R3VIGM7Z66UT7M	0671042793	533745123	The Russia House	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Not Le Carre's best.	At his best John le Carre transcends the genre.  His Quest for Karla trilogy (Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, The Honourable Schoolboy, and Smiley's People) and A Perfect Spy are marvellous novels, with deftly drawn complex  characters, and a fine sense of the reasons for betrayal.  <br />This, though,  is disappointing.  It is le Carre's first post glasnost fiction, and in  feeling for new subject matter his novels have seemed a little weaker,  until finding new form with his most recent novel, Single and Single.<br />The  novel focuses on Barley Blair, a drunken book publisher from a small  publishing house in London.  Having applied for a place in the secret  service some years before, Blair becomes a reluctant spy as a book with  observations on Soviet military capability is handed over for Blair at an  audio book convention.  The novel is narrated by a wily lawyer advising the  British secret service.<br />There are some weak points in the novel.  For  this reader le Carre has never convinced when drawing female characters  (even the estimable Lady Ann Smiley remains a cipher from le Carre's first  novel to Smiley's People).  Nor is le Carre convincing when writing about  love, and here one of the pivotal characters is Katya, a Muscovite with  children.  She is better drawn than many of le Carre's female characters  (perhaps the first person male narrative strangely helps in this regard),  but she remains something of a blank canvas.  Her relationship with Blair  is never convincing, and sadly this taints the inevitability of the final  chapters.<br />There are the usual le Carre virtues.  He has a mastery of  novel openings (Witness the first chapters of Tinker Tailor and Single and  Single for example) and this is no exception.  In attendance at an audio  book fair in MOscow a Polish emigre is approached and handed the crucial  papers for Blair.  How this is done, and how he deals with it, are handled  wonderfully.  Each detail making the situation credible.  Le Carre's own  style is again wonderful.  His prose has a fluidity that is very  readable.<br />Le Carre also has astute observations on the relationship  between the superpowers at the time of Gorbachev's restructuring, and -  from the backdrop of the Smiley novels - the relationship between the  United States and United Kingdom secret services.  <br />It is ironic that in  a novel billed as a love story the most convincing relationships are those  between institutions.<br />If you enjoy the novel try to get hold off the BBC  audio dramatisation starring Tom Baker as Barley Blair.  The other le Carre  novels mentioned in this review are more rewarding than the Russia House,  but it is still an enjoyable, albeit disappointing, read.	2000-07-31
US	50570484	R2ADMSSWCQWSL4	0553571699	349407151	A Touch of Frost	Books	3	12	22	N	N	Entertaining, but not gripping	Detective Inspector &quot;Jack&quot; Frost is the subject of a popular television series in the UK.  The character was awarded a medal for bravery (due to a foolish mistake) and dominates the TV series.  Although RD  Wingfield has written only four books, the many plots contained in them  have been cannibalised for many episodes of the TV series.<br />This is the  first Frost book I have read.  Beginning with Frost attempting to attend a  retirement party and failing as he is required to attend a number of crime  scenes, it sets up a number of interlinking (and sometimes not) plots (the  investigation of the death of a tramp, the disappearance of a girl, a rape  inquiry).  The different plots give a misleading depth to the novel, though  Wingfield handles the plots reasonably (although without the mastery of  James Ellroy, Ian Rankin, or Reginald Hill).  However, at times there is  too much happening<br />Wingfield, as one would expect from a former script  writer for British comedian Kenneth Williams, is also a funny writer,  although sometimes the jokes teeter into offensiveness.<br />The novel is  strong on the tedium of much police procedural work, and perceptive on  police politics (similar to office politics in most jobs).<br />However, the  novel is heavily dependent on the character of Frost.  Other characters fit  neat stereotypes, or are too poorly drawn to give credibility, and the  depth given to Frost with some subtle nuances (notably in the conclusion)  merely emphasise, how two dimensional other characters are.<br />This is an  enjoyable novel, but not gripping.  It is not, to this reviewer, in the  first level of modern British genre fiction.	2000-07-31
US	50570484	R3N9OTN3ZFRUBZ	1873176341	630501291	Seven Stories (AK Press Audio)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The quiet voice of a master	I was first introduced to Kelman by an English teacher in secondary school.  He exposed my class to modern Scottish writing, ALasdair Gray, Tom Leonard, and James Kelman.  Indeed, Kelman was invited to my school to give  a reading (unusual given the language in his fiction).<br />I did not read  Kelman for a time afterwards, but came to him again through Alasdair Gray's  Lanark.  Here, in the epilogue (Four chapters before the end) there are a  number of footnotes, one of which was the text of Acid, a short story  featured on this collection.  It is very short (just longer than Richard  Brautigan's The Scarlatti Tilt) but remains one of the most powerful things  I have read, exploring the nature of work, love, and a parent child  relationship in under fifty words.<br />I then started devouring Kelman, the  novels and the short stories.  Although, I love Kelman's novels (especially  A Chancer and A Disaffection) it is to the short stories I keep returning.   His collections from Three Glasgow Writers, through An Old Pub near the  angel, Not not while the giro, Greyhound for Breakfast, The Burn and The  Good Times, are essential reading.  They reveal so much about the human  condition - and, in his later work, the nature of maleness (without any  Robert Bly nonsense).<br />Kelman writes in dialect, and is very funny  (although this is lost in much controversy about his use of swearie  words).<br />This collection of 7 stories (8 on the audio cassette) is  excellent.  You hear the voice of a master, a quiet determined voice, that  - with no hystrionics - allows the work to shine.  The collection showcases  some of the best of Kelman, although, for reasons of length, his impressive  longer short stories (e.g. A situation from The Burn) are not present.   However, the Cd is worth it for two of the stories alone.  Acid, and  Roofsliding.  Acid is described above.  Rooofsliding is Kelman at his  funniest.  An academic analysis of strange behaviour in the tenements of  Glasgow.  It is dry, it is witty, and the easy style with which Kelman  reads accentuates the humour.<br />You should read Kelman, and you should  listen to him.  Because when you hear him, his voice will permeate your  readings of his fiction.  You will feel the tone, will note the  nuances.<br />This is a collection to love and play again and again, and we  must be grateful to the companies are taking the effort to commit our great  writers to audio collections.<br />If you enjoy this, try the Tom Leonard CD  (by AK) where he reads a collection of his Glasgow Poems, &quot;nora's  place and other poems 1965-1995 ref: AK006CD and SOHO003CD, or the  Canongate audio recordings of Alasdair Gray reading Lanark and some  Unlikely Stories.	2000-07-13
US	50570484	R2REOJQAQ98M3O	0440215730	117567133	Recalled to Life (Dalziel and Pascoe Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Sexual intercourse began in 1963 (and very British scandals)	For some reason 1963 is a landmark year in British culture.  Kim Philby defected.  The Profumo affair (prostitutes and politicians - a potent mix) broke.  And, as Philip Larkin had it &quot;Sexual intercourse began in  nineteen sixty three between the end of the Chatterley ban and the Beatles  first LP&quot;.  The era is revisited in a number of novels, including John  LAwton's A Little White Death.  Recalled to Life is Reginald Hill's take on  the era. <br />Hill is one of the finest contemporary genre writers.  His  Dalziel and Pascoe series is a long running police procedural series that  rarely flags, due not only to the stength of the central characters (well  drawn, and believably human, they are the bull like Superintendent Andy  Dalziel, and sensitive graduate Inspector Peter Pascoe), but also the  variety and deft characterisation of the peripheral characters (be they  regulars like Sergeant Edgar Wield (a gay police officer), or Pascoe's wife  Ellie a former sociology lecturer).  Sometimes, though, all does not work  as it should.  In my view this is one such novel.<br />The novel begins with  the release of Cissy Kohler from prison.  She had been convicted of a  country house murder in 1963, where in attendance were a prominent  politician, an industrialist, a distant royal relative, and an American  &quot;diplomat&quot; (together with assorted spouses, nannies and  children).  Dalziel was involved in the original investigation, and becomes  involved in reassessing the investigation.  His investigations take him to  the United States, where his Yorkshire based brand of zero tolerance sees  him featured on the front of a newspaper as &quot;Crocodile Dalziel&quot;.   The story comes together with involvement of the media, the secret service  (from the UK and the USA), police corruption investigation, high politics,  low deceit.  Hill handles the plot in an exemplary fashion, drawing  together the strands, and running a number of storylines/strands of  investigation simultaneously.  So far, so police procedural.<br />As ever the  peripheral characters are delightfully drawn, from the ageing Scottish  nanny, Miss Marsh, to the money grabbing former prison officer, encountered  by Peter Pascoe, to Lord Partridge, a former cabinet minister, forced to  resign in the aftermath of the Profumo affair.<br />So why the moderate  ranking?  If 3.5 stars were available I would have awarded that.  But,  there seems to be something missing in this book.  The Dalziel and Pascoe  series works at its best on home ground, drawing strength from the  Yorkshire geography and culture (witness On Beulah Height and Bones and  Silence).  However, here by removing Dalziel from home base we are left  with a number of forced situations of an Englishman abroad.  There is also  an unlikely love (lust?) interest that stretches the bounds of credibility.  <br />This is a very enjoyable mystery novel.  It has the usual Hill virtues  (plotting, characterisation, and a twisted sense of humour), and manages to  say a lot about English society.  However, for me, the spark is  missing.<br />If you enjoyed this novel try the Lawton book or either of the  the Dalziel and Pascoe books mentioned earlier.	2000-07-11
US	50570484	R2Q9BPX6CP2AO4	0399146040	349365874	Mr Phillips	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Ordinary people have extraordinary lives too (3.5 stars)	Lanchester's A Debt to pleasure was one of the best first novels by an English writer in recent years.  The central character was beguiling, witty, snobbish, urbane, and seemed to have fallen from the pages of a  Nabokov novel.<br />Mr Phillips is not as satisfying, but it is still  enjoyable.  It is a day in the life of a man that has lost his job, but  cannot face telling his family.  He gets the train, he walks about, he  stares at pretty girls, he thinks about sex, he stalks, (the humdrum  normality of suburban English lives.  Anyway, you get the idea)...<br />The  prose is understated, and consciously mundane.  In its own way the novel is  as stylised as A Debt to pleasure.  <br />From the mundanity Lanchester works  (Sometimes too hard) at deriving humour.  Sometimes, the humour is heavy  handed, at other times - when it stems from the character's foibles - it  works wonderfully.  As the eponymous anti-hero has an accountancy  background much of the humour stems from his obsession with numbers.  For  example, his consideration of sex is based around numbers, statistics, and  percentages.  <br />The mundanity does not work as well as in books such as  The Diary of a nobody. However, Lanchester does make tedium fun.  Despite  the humour the central character is well drawn, with a human side (although  Lanchester occasionally totters on the brink of  mawkish senitmentality in  relation to him).<br />Mr Phillips is an enjoyable book, and is easily read.   It feels, though, as if this is an exercise by Lanchester in ventriloquism  (reminding me in parts of the short stories of Candia McWilliam).  Now that  he has tried on a couple of voices, could the real John Lanchester step  forward please.  Because when he does, the signs are that he will produce  something great.<br />People who like Martin Amis (his pre-dental work stage)  should enjoy this.	2000-07-05
US	50570484	R1AXSQ3FRL4VCY	0701137134	623821732	Collected Poems: A New Edition	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Finest Scottish poet (in English) of the twentieth century	Norman MacCaig was born in 1910, his ancestry three parts Gael, to one part Lowland Scots.  He lived and worked in Edinburgh, but his poetry is most associated with the Highlands, particularly, Suilven, and  Assynt.<br />The Collected Poems of MacCaig is not a complete poems by any  means.  MacCaig expressly dissociated himself from his first two  collections, Far Cry and The Inward Eye, published in the 1940s as part of  the apocalyptic movement.  There are also a number of poems missing from  later collections (especially his early work, Riding Lights, The Sinai Sort  &amp;c).  <br />MacCaig's poetry moved in transition from the formal  structures of his 1950s works, to a free form structure in the 1960s with  his wonderful works Surroundings, Rings in a Tree, and a Man in my  position.  His work in the 1980s was more fragmentary in style, like  instants captured in notebooks.<br />MacCaig was self-effacing decsribing his  poems as one or two cigarette pieces.  He claimed to discard poems that  didn't meet his exacting standard.<br />MacCaig was a wonderful rural poet  capturing much of the beauty of the Highland landscape he loved.  He was  also a fine natural poet, with apt metaphors for the animal world (pigeons  described as &quot;wobbling gyroscopes of lust&quot;, a frog &quot;a  Joseph-coated tumbler&quot;).  However, while this is what he is best known  for, MacCaig (from his early 1940s collections) wrote of the inexactness of  language (what HLA Hart described as the &quot;penumbra of  uncertainty&quot; in any words), and despite his avowed apolitical nature  (contradicting his stand as a conscientious objector in the Second World  War) was a fine poet about politics, castigating politicians for their use  of weasel words, meaningless expressions.<br />MacCaig's best work though  comes in two main strands, his elegaic poems, written in the later years of  his life, for friends like Hugh MacDiarmid and AK MacLeod and his wife, and  his love poetry.  MacCaig is a fine love poet, conscious of the verbal  tricks in, and challenges of, a relationship.<br />This collection is not a  complete poems, but contains all the work MacCaig determined was worth  keeping.  It is a wonderful collection, and for a writer sometimes  described as cold, much of it - especially his later work - packs a  powerful emotional punch.  For anyone with an interest in Scottish  literature MacCaig is a pivotal figure.  A man that, with his friends Hugh  MacDiarmid and Sorely MacLean, kept the flame of literature in Scotland  alive, and the quality up, during the dark years before Alasdair Gray, Tom  Leonard, and Jim Kelman emerged.<br />MacCaig is important, and if you enjoy  his work you might like Romanian poet Nina Cassian (especially her  collection Call Yourself Alive?).<br />I cannot recommend this book highly  enough.  And you can forgive a man a lot that wrote Party, one of the most  beautiful short poems in the English language about unrequited love.	2000-06-22
US	50570484	R1YPMJTX3B01A5	0233964630	319746779	Hide and Seek	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The key to understanding Potter	This is the most important book that Dennis Potter published.  A novel, it prefigures much of the work of the late 1970s and 1980s, and acts as a bridge back to the impressive Son of Man.<br />It is a book of many layers,  and later work such as Andrew Crumey's Music in a foreign language, and  Pfitz, adopt a similar approach.<br />It has a disconcerting opening - a man  at his psychiatrist announcing that he is a character in a novel.  The  multiple layers unravel from there.  Having identified the central  character (and having been told of the characteristics the reader realises  he shares with Potter), the author intervenes and he stresses the  differences between his lifestyle and that of the character.  We then take  a further step back and view the author in the third person.<br />The  relationship between characters and their creator (very Pirandello), and  between people and God, are themes Potter continued to revisit.  We are  here seeing the disintegration of a character, and Potter spares nothing in  his portrayal of the breakdown.<br />There are passages in this book that are  repeated in The Singing Detective (the view of sex quoted by Bill  Paterson's pyschiatrist there is lifted verbatim from this novel).  And,  many of the themes of The Singing Detective and Blackeyes can be seen in  this novel.<br />It is out of print, but if you are interested in Potter you  must try to get hold of it.<br />It is a minor book, not brilliant, but it is  the key to understanding Potter's later work (from Joe's Ark and Brimstone  and Treacle onwards).	2000-06-20
US	50570484	R26R47779OW8YV	0312195680	964328992	D'Alembert's Principle: A Novel in Three Panels	Books	5	7	7	N	N	D'Alembert's Dream	This is Andrew Crumey's third novel, and the second in a loosely related trilogy beginning with Pfitz, and concluding with Mr Mee, a worthy conclusion published in the UK in May 2000.<br />This novel is structured  around the structure of Diderot's Encyclopaedia with the focus on Memory,  Reason, and Imagination - and while in Pfitz these aspects were dealt with  in an abstract way permeating the novel, here there are three distinct  parts - each notionally attributed to one of the heads.<br />The most  conventional is the first, Memory, a memoir by D'Alembert, with  observations by his servants.  It deals with D'Alembert's relationship with  the other great minds of the time, Diderot and Rousseau, and his troubles  in salon culture.  The second part is based around a view of the Solar  System by Magnus Fergusson.  This is an off-kilter way to take various  approaches to logic, and philosophy.  Each planetary view has a convincing  internal logic.  Each is completely mad, and very amusing.  <br />The final  part, Imagination, reintroduces storyteller Pfitz.<br />Each part is laced  with Crumey's dry sense of humour, and - as with his other novels -  Crumey's mathematical background is put to good use.  He has immersed  himself in eighteenth century French culture and while in previous novels  by Crumey the influence of Calvino, Borges, and Barthelme is most marked  here we see some of the philosophical games Diderot uses in Jacques the  fatalist and D'Alembert's Dream.<br />While Crumey again demonstrates his  erudition, it is necessary to stress that in the midst of the philosophy,  and the clever games, Crumey is a witty writer.  His novels have a black  humour, and occasional farcical scenes running through them.  <br />Crumey  maintains a very high standard in his fiction, and deserves a broad  readership.  Those that like Barthelme, Borges, Calvino, or Steve Erickson  will find something to like in Crumey.<br />And if you enjoy Crumey and those  writers try Drivetime (a novel) or Last Orders (short stories) by James  Meek.	2000-06-20
US	50570484	R19SA0VE1K0T9M	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	4	35	40	N	N	Secrets and lies in the search for self	The Human Stain is not the best of recent Roth (but then there are few contemporary novels from whatever country as impressive as Sabbath's Theater or American Pastoral).  However, it is confirmation that Roth is  one of the most necessary of contemporary writers.<br />This concludes a  trilogy of loosely related novels taking a personal examination of  important events from post WWII American history.  Each is narrated by  Nathan Zuckerman (Roth's altar ego), and again Zuckerman is present, but -  generally - not intrusive.<br />Set against the backdrop of the Lewinsky  affair, Coleman's own fall from his position as Professor of Classics and  dean of a department for a &quot;racist&quot; remark is a tragedy, and  filled with anger, on behalf of his friend, Zuckerman traces Silk's life,  and his final days (including an affair with a cleaner at the  University).<br />Roth's writing has a passion.  His prose may not be smooth  and elegant, but there is real emotion underpinning it.  Anger at the  nature of modern society, the dumbing down, the compartmentalising of  people.  <br />Roth's characters are more rounded than in the first Zuckerman  trilogy.  His subjects now seem real.  His writing about a writer, and his  problems writing seems to be behind him.<br />This is a book about learning,  about ignorance, about dignity, about shame.<br />It can be contrasted with  the cool prose of JM Coetzee's Disgrace, winner of the Booker Prize in the  UK.  This novel looks at the fall of an academic after an affair with a  student.  It is a well written but cold novel.  No-one can accuse  Roth/Zuckerman of writing cold fiction.<br />The novel is uneven, but there is  much that is poetic in the midst of the righteous anger.  Also, in Les  Farley, and Ernestine Silk Roth has created two of his most memorable  characters.  <br />Many years ago Roth wrote a hilarious baseball novel, The  Great American Novel.  Roth's recent work (beginning I feel with Deception)  has been of an extremely high quality.  And it is with this body of work,  rather than in that thirty year old fiction, that Roth has finally caught  that mythical beast.  The cumulative work of the new Zuckerman trilogy and  Sabbath's Theater truly are Great American Novels.	2000-06-12
US	50570484	R1ZUH43EH3TQK4	1582340374	61916228	the Book of Prefaces	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A labour of love but no labour to love	For many years in catalogues of forthcoming publications Alsadair Gray's Anthology of Prefaces has been referred to.  Some suspected a Gray type joke as the book failed to appear year on year.  Was it a post modern joke?   Gray after all was the man that had an erratum slip inserted in an earlier  book reading &quot;This erratum slip was inserted by mistake.&quot;  The  apparent joke was taken too far when one catalogue of second hand books  published almost a decade ago suggested that the book had not appreciated  in value and was worth roughly 20 second hand.  This was not a bad sum for  a non-existent text.  Snippets of text appeared occasionally, and while the  book remained unpublished it became apparent that Gray was beginnning to  make serious progress on the work.  It then became known that others were  assisting Gray in his task of glossing the prefaces including crucially  important Scottish writers such as Jim Kelman, Tom Leonard, Janice  Galloway, and Alison Kennedy.<br />So now the book has arrived.  The title has  changed (now The Book of Prefaces, rather than an anthology).  The price  rather more than the suggested second hand value.<br />And it is well worth  the wait.  This will stand as a monument to Gray's achievements as an  artist (of words and of pictures).  His remit has been to produce a history  of literature in English from the sixth century to the present day.<br />This  is a book to revel in.  Among prefaces to novels and poems (from the well  known, such as Mary Shelley's genesis of Frankenstein to the less well  known such as Trahern's poetry) there are prefaces (and prologues) to works  of philosophy (e.g. Bentham and Franklin) and law (the introduction to  Stair's Institutions, a crucially important work in the survival of Scots  law as an independent legal system).<br />The book is beautifully illustrated,  wonderfully designed, and contains a charming introduction by Gray  detailing reasons for prefaces and for enjoying reading them (my favourite,  enjoying watching authors in a huff).<br />This book will be an invaluable  companion through life, and careful reading will have the desired effect of  making an individual appear better read and more erudite than they really  are.<br />Buy and enjoy this wonderful book.	2000-06-02
US	50570484	R30A2AZIE2QZW9	0904919919	540255309	A Chancer (Fiction series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Unusual Kelman, but still great	Some folk dinnae like Kelman.  They dinnae like the swearin and the langwij.  Readin writin that's in phonetic Glasweejan is tae difficult fur them.<br />Well, tough.<br />This is early Kelman.  Written when he wis young, like.  An it's great.  Fantastic.<br />Yi see, it's naw like his later stuff.  Naw.  Yi see, here, it's all objective. There's nae gettin inside the heids of the characters.  Yi're jist telt whit they do.  An it's compellun.  Yit, nuthin happens.  Nuthin. Sure there's some fitba and gamblin, an bein a layabout, but it's more than that.<br />Kelman can write.  He's magic.  he loves words, loves his people, loves langwij.  Yi can feel the power in it.  Feel the anger. The frustration at the waste.  An yi might not love his characters, but yi respect them.<br />Like here, Tammas.  A bit o a waster.  A chancer, duckin and divin, lookin fur an opportunity tae mak some money, fur a quick smoke.  But, yi'll come tae like him.  Kelman does that, yi see.  He draws yi in.  <br />But like a said, here it's a bit diffrunt.  We dinnae ken whit Tammas is thinkin, we only know how he reacts, and whit he does.<br />It's clever.  It's well written.  And Kelman's still the godfather o modern Scottish writin.  Still the king.<br />Buy this.  Force them tae reprint it.  <br />Cheers.	2000-05-31
US	50570484	RHEMA2LPFF6O7	0312195508	242461331	Pfitz: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful and witty - variations in a European style	Andrew Crumey is a young Scottish novelist more interested in inheriting the mantel of Barthelme, Borges and Calvino than the arid workaday mentality of most British and American novelists.<br />This novel bristles  with ideas, the inhabitants of a kingdom set to work populating a  fictitious city.  The work on the city is based on a model from Diderot and  Dalambert's Encyclopaedia and is divided into Memory, Reason, and  Imagination.<br />There are interlinking storylines and the novel is part love  story, part thriller, part comedy, part philosophical investigation.<br />As  you can see from the other reviews this novel will polarise opinion.  This  is a novel that requires you to think.  The reader has to play a role in  the story.  You can not let this novel wash over you, although its length  and the beauty of the writing style give you a novel that can be eaten  quickly, but you should digest at leisure.  To say that this novel  encourages you to think may give a misleading impression.  It is not an  arid dry purely philosophical work.  <br />This novel, indeed all of Crumey's  fiction, bears comparison with writers such as Borges, Calvino, Tadeusz  Konwicki, and Galli.  It is as playful as the works of each of these  writers, as stimulating, and as enjoyable.<br />It is a work in the modern  European style, and harks back to the European novel writing of the  eighteenth century.<br />Enjoy...	2000-05-30
US	50570484	R1WOVPHCYP20TL	0679752943	216404459	Deception	Books	5	29	36	N	N	Distilled Roth - a fine vintage	&quot;Happy Birthday&quot; &quot;Thanks.&quot; &quot;It's Deception by Philip Roth.  You'll love it&quot; &quot;Sure?&quot; &quot;Yes&quot; &quot;Why?&quot; &quot;Because it's Philip Roth, and it's clever, and it's  humane, and it's about love and about trust and about sex.&quot; &quot;Like  Portnoy's Complaint and Sabbath's Theater?&quot; &quot;Well, no.  You see  it's written completely in dialogue&quot; &quot;Completely?&quot;  &quot;With one or two stage directions, but otherwise completely in  dialogue&quot; &quot;and what's it about?&quot; &quot;A writer called  Philip&quot; &quot;Philip?&quot; &quot;Yes, Philip.  Roth doesn't bother  with Zuckerman here&quot; &quot;So, what does Philip do?&quot; &quot;He  talks.  Just talks.  To his wife.  To his mistress or mistresses.&quot;  &quot;Plural?&quot; &quot;Yes, plural.&quot; &quot;So he talks.&quot; ...  &quot;Just talks?&quot; &quot;Yes.  Although it's cleverly done.  In some  sections you don't know if it's Philip, or a woman talking at first.  Your  whole perception can be changed depending on how you read these  scenes.&quot; &quot;And you liked it?&quot; &quot;Of course.  I loved it.   It's up there with American Pastoral and Sabbath's Theater.  But it's  distilled Roth.  There's nothing unnecessary.&quot;	2000-05-30
US	50570484	R3U5PKB321U2CC	0679737553	317940828	Love and Garbage	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Klima's masterpiece	Throughout much of the last thirty years some of the finest literary fiction has emerged from Eastern Europe.  Much of this was due to Philip Roth's championing of the work of Kundera and other Czech writers.  Klima is less well known than his former compatriot, but is a more interesting  writer.  <br />This novel is charming, a discourse on life, love, censorship,  totalitarianism, and Kafka.  The tale of an academic forced to give up his  academic career to turn to street sweeping, the central character walks  through Prague cleaning, and we find ourselves accompanying him.  An  engaging humane character wins over the reader, and although this novel is  slow to start the conversational style slowly engrossed this reader at  least.<br />Klima's work will not satisfy those looking for an easy read.  But  if you are prepared to be challenged then persevere.  I, and many friends,  have grown to love it.<br />But if you enjoyed this novel try one of his early  books of short stories, My First Loves, or an overlooked masterpiece of  Polish fiction, Tadeusz Konwicki's A Minor Apocalypse.	2000-03-23
US	50570484	R1J4SRCXVL71Y9	0393038459	749481430	Marabou Stork Nightmares: A Novel	Books	1	6	14	N	N	Nasty and derivative	This is not an easy read, nor is it a nice book. <br />In previous works, Welsh prepared his readers for his dredging of the underside of humanity. The nastiness of the central character, Roy Strang, is therefore not a  great shock.  <br />However, in Trainspotting every degradation experienced is  carefully drawn from well-rounded credible characters, here the experiences  of Strang and those around him look like clumsy attempts to shock.  They  stem not from character, but - it seems - for the worst sensationalist  reasons.  I mention only two illustrations.  There is a brutal gang rape,  and an all too predictable Jacobean revenge thriller ending. <br />To this  reader there is much that is wrong with this book. Some reviewers comment  on Welsh's innovative style.  Well it may appear innovative, but - as was  the case with The Acid House - when you get beneath the superificially  attractive stylistic surface there is much that is derivative.  There are  sections which mimic (badly) the stylistic approach of Alasdair Gray's  satirical masterpiece, 1982 Janine. The structure also appears to show the  multi-layered influence of Dennis Potter's The Singing Detective, but  without Potter's finesse, or fine drawing of character. The use of language  exhibits the influence of James Kelman - but where with Kelman the  distilled prose becomes poetic, here Welsh's language grates. <br />When it  comes to comparisons with the true innovators, Welsh does not pass  muster.<br />On the content of the book the starring role for a professional  soccer player, Jimmy Sandison, is a pleasant surprise for followers of the  lower divisions in the Scottish soccer league, but at the core of the novel  there is a dark centre.<br />Welsh prefaces the book with a quote from former  British Prime Minister John Major (taken ironically) - we should condemn  more and understand less. Here there is a cheap pay-off rationalising  Strang's attitude and behaviour.  I will not give away this surprise other  than to note that - to me - it is offensive. A pat, cliched excuse for  aggressive damaging behaviour. <br />There is little humanity in this book. It  is not recommended.  For an infinitely superior look at the nasty side of  the male pysche you should try Bunker Man by Duncan McLean or Hope by Glen  Duncan.<br />For lovers of Welsh's early work it is sad to see here a talent  gone to waste.  Sadly, his next two books are even poorer as publishers  cashed in on his Trainspotting success.	2000-03-10
US	50570484	R3TSNIFRFPV5NF	0312169469	521490644	Music, in a Foreign Language	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A new writer with a great future	Writers in the United Kingdom are an insular bunch.  Very few engage with the innovations in novel writing from the Indian subcontinent or continental Europe.  Crumey is one of those that does.  He sits easily in  the European tradition.<br />This, his first novel, is Borgesian in nature.   Set in an alternative United Kingom where communism falls just as it does  in Eastern Europe, the story is a love story, a thriller, an excursus on  writing.  The novel is like a mutli-layered Chinese box.  There are various  levels of reality.  Particularly enjoyable are the stories of Galli, a  fictitious writer in the manner of Italo Calvino or Borges.<br />Continually  enjoyable.  Wonderfully written, this novel won the Saltire Book award for  the Best first Scottish Book of the Year.<br />It is very rarely that someone  bursts onto the literary scene with something new to say, and a distinctive  voice.<br />Crumey is one such person, and he continues to improve.  <br />If you  enjoy Music in a Foreign Language, try Pfitz.  <br />Readers of Steve  Erickson, especially fans of Amnesiascope, or Donald Bartheleme may also  like to give Crumey a try.	2000-02-16
US	50570484	R4OIHHMXVRAKE	0393312801	163144266	The Acid House	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Disappointing after Trainspotting	The Acid House is distilled Welsh.  100% proof. At a time where short story writing in Scotland is of a very high standard it is sad to report that Welsh has no mastery of the short story form unlike his fellow young  Scots James Meek, Alison Kennedy or Gordon Legge, or the old master James  Kelman.  <br />This collection is very disappointing, and marks the first step   in the inevitable downward spiral after the wonderful Trainspotting.  However, from here on in, his books just get poorer and poorer.<br />Some  stories are very clever (The Granton Star Cause, Lisa's mum meets the Queen  mum, Disnae matter).  Others are bereft of originality.  VAT 69, for  example, has the same plot twist as Roald Dahl's classic William and Mary.   This then taints your reading of the other stories, because you are left  wondering if the idea can be sourced elsewhere.  (Granton Star Cause is a  filthy minded, but very funny, Metamorphosis, for example).<br />There is some  very good Welsh in here, but the most symptomatic of his subsequent work is  the longest piece - a novella - that ultimately, like Welsh himself, does  not last the pace.<br />If you've not read him before, try Trainspotting. If  you have and have liked him while there is something to enjoy prepare to be  disappointed.	2000-01-17
