US	50587402	R2G51ZMWVKAUZE	0471660868	77637024	Kids Inventing! A Handbook for Young Inventors	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Kids Inventing is Terrific!!!!	I really love Kids Inventing!, THE handbook for young inventors. Written by that expert on invention (also see author Susan Casey's excellent book, Women Invent!), this is a book about inventions by kids, and it's written to be read and used by kids.<br /><br />  Easy to read, full of first-rate practical advice, with lots of good photos and charts, this book will be especially useful not only for all those young inventors out there, but also for their teachers. I'm a teacher myself, and am always on the lookout for books that encourage children to think big, to explore what could be, to use their imagination...and Kids Inventing! is exactly this kind of inspiring book.<br /><br />  The advice on patents and trademarks alone is well worth the price of the book. There is a great deal too, of interesting history throughout. The sections on awards, invention fairs, science fairs, contests, camps...all of these add to the completely practical aspect of Kids Inventing! Author Casey guides the reader step-by-step, always encouraging, always guiding with a sure hand.<br /><br />  Kids Inventing! is sure to be a big hit with the brightest, highest achieving students....but I believe that it will also be of plenty of interest to most kids. This one ought to be in every school library...shot it ought to be in all the classrooms! Highly recommended.	2005-09-16
US	50587402	R3MQE58EQRY5HD	5551639304	222053981	Seven Rivers West	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Rare Find!	I bought a copy of Seven Rivers West at a used books sale at my own public library & just happened to start reading it a few days ago. Wow! What a rare find, what a treasure! A swashbuckling, no holds bared, uncensored, wild, exciting, deeply rich tall tale of the West in the early 1880's.<br /><br />  I real slots of Westerns and have started to write some, too, and once in a while I come across a writer, new to me, one that I greatly admire. The author, Edward Hoagland, is such a writer, one that I'll be searching out, looking for more of his Westerns to read.<br /><br />  A combination of fact and fiction, of fantasy and reality, Hoagland in some way kind of reminds me of the great fiction of Isaac Singer. The book too, in a way, reminds me of Lonesome Dove...at any rate, it is the story of a bunch of very odd characters who are headed into the wild mountains of the Rockies, in search of love, gold, adventure, and grizzly bears to catch and tame. Each character in the book is flawed, is real, is quite human, and Hoagland's writing is packed with interesting detail that only one who has lived close to the wild could appreciate and put on paper. I highly recommend that anyone who happens to see this review of mine, that they get a hold of a copy of Seven Rivers West, then put aside some serious time, as you'll need it. This book will hook you, hold you, and charm you.	2005-08-25
US	50587402	R114XQIOFTISQZ	B0007E6XTQ	13015578	A Drum Calls West	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One Excellent Western!	I recently met Bill Gulick in Spokane, WA., at my first WWA convention....that's the Western Writers Association. The other writers there seemed to hold Bill in very high esteem, so when I got home I found one of his old westerns in a used book store, A Drum Calls West....and I just finished reading it last night.<br /><br />Wow! This guy can sure write....I've been reading tons of Louis L'Amour books, and certainly enjoying them, and Bill's writing reminds me a great deal of L'Amour, same kind of good attention to detail, lots of color, excellent action, great characters, good setting, tight plot...just a darn good read in all regards.<br /><br />  I understand a number of his books were made into movies...which makes plenty of sense. The exciting thing for me is that I've discovered a new author whose writing I really like, and an author who wrote quite a few books. I'm looking forward to getting my hands on as many of Bill Gulick's westerns as I can find...and reading every one of them. Honestly, check this guy out...Gulick's a great writer!	2005-07-13
US	50587402	R24DUVC45DFAM8	084394756X	387612096	Broke Loose	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mighty Fun, and Mighty  Unusual, too.	This was the very first of any books by Robert J. Conley that I'd ever read....and it left me wanting to read more of his work. Conley's writing is a real treat for the reader...and his work will surprise you often, and maybe even shock you now and then. If you only read traditional Westerns, and can't handle a stiff dose of reality in your books, then Robert J. Conley's work probably isn't for you. But if you're like me, and you love good Western novels, and if you are open minded and appreciate excellent writing...by all means, do yourself a big favor and check out Broke Loose....or any of Conley's books. Luckily for us, he published close to 30 Western novels.<br /><br />  I just finished reading another of his books, Strange Company, and it was so good I simply  could not put it down....read it from cover to cover at one long, fun, sitting....and no surprise...it was fantastic. Seriously, I read a ton of Westerns, am a big fan of Louis L'Amour, Johnny Boggs, Rick Steber, Roland Cheek, Larry McMurtry, and Ralph Compton and Ralph Cotton...but hey, honestly, Robert Jackson Conley can hang with the best of them....he's that good, and then some. Check out Broke Loose, or any of Conley's novels....I just love it when I find a (new to me) author whose work I really enjoy, and this is one flat out marvelous discovery!	2005-07-11
US	50587402	R1MOKSBRAHSCO9	0918981085	747730640	Echoes of Vengeance (Valediction for Revenge)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow! This is One Terrific Western Novel!!	I met Roland Cheek a few weeks ago at the WWA (Western Writers Association) convention in Spokane, Washington. I write gardening books but I've just written several westerns myself and recently joined the WWA.<br /><br />  Roland Cheek, the author of Echoes of Vengeance, was assigned to be my \\"mentor\\" for the conference. He is a salty, interesting, unconventional man, a man's man, a strong, tough looking guy, a man who has been a big game hunting and fishing guide and cowboy his entire life. Roland strikes you as 100% authentic...which he is.<br /><br />  I just finished reading Echoes of Vengeance, which is the first one of a series of six related western novels, all following the same character, young Jethro Spring. Spring is a half-breed; his mother was a Blackfoot Indian, his father a trapper. Jethro is wanted by the law for killing the man who killed his parents. The story follows him from one state to another, from one coast to another mostly in the early 1870's. The book starts out with a bang, the action is clear, clean, always believable, and it moves along with the pace and power of a runaway freight train.<br /><br />  In this marvelous book, not only is there plenty of great action, boxing, bar fights, shootings, killing, but Cheek explores a great many social problems of this time and place, and does so without ever being preachy. The characters are different, always interesting, and completely real...and importantly too, we the readers come to care deeply about the characters.<br /><br />  This is a tough story, not all apple pie by any means, but an honest one. Adults who read it will darn sure like it, but I'd bet that a great many young adults would also be crazy about it. I feel lucky to have met Roland Cheek and even luckier to have read one of his novels. I plan to read all the rest of them, too, for sure. I've always loved Louie L'Amour's books, but honest, Roland Cheek writes every bit as well, and, well, check it out. You've got a real treat ahead of you...I'd bet my hat on it.'d bet my hat on it. <br />	2005-07-01
US	50587402	R364BW8JCDSMPG	0945134339	692819525	Buy The Chief A Cadillac	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A  Wonderful Historical Novel	Buy the Chief a Cadillac is indeed a wonderful historical novel, although fairly recent history, as the time period of the book is in the early 1960's.<br /><br />  The Klamath Indian tribe, living on a million acre reservation in southern Oregon, is about to be terminated. The government passed a plan where they would pay each Indian $43,000 and in return, the reservation would be no longer. This novel is set in the days just before and immediately after the Termination Act took place.<br /><br />  Full of well fleshed out characters, mean drunks, crazy cowboys, whisky swilling loggers, lawmen both good and bad, this book is a darn fine read. It is historically correct and explores clearly one of the last really big rip-offs of the Indians by the US Government.<br /><br />  Buy the Chief a Cadillac is fueled by 60's rock and roll, a river of potent booze, hopped up hotrods, guns, chaos, greed, murder and abundant mayhem. We meet and journey with each of the many and varied interesting characters from their own point of view, something that works very well.<br /><br />  The book is tight, keeps the reader turning the pages; the writing is crisp, clean, and clear, and has a definite ring of authenticity about it. This is the first of Rick Steber's books I've read and I plan to read more of them. I'd recommend it for anyone who enjoys reading about the West, for those interested in American history, and think it would make an excellent book for professors to have their students read in classes that deal with the American Indian, the reservations, the 1960's. A terrific book by a talented writer.	2005-06-27
US	50587402	RNP7SPQQZWJ9	0451211502	530839057	Between Hell and Texas (Ralph Cotton Western Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A Terrific  Sequel to a Great Book!	In Gunman's Song, cowboy Cray Dawson teams up with the famous gunslinger, Fast Larry Shaw, to track down and kill the men who killed the woman both of them loved. I flat out was plum crazy about Gunman's Song; thought it had all the elements of a fine western.<br /><br />  In Between Hell and Texas, Cray Dawson is no longer with Fast Larry, instead he's on his own, headed back home to Texas to take up life where he left off. Cray doesn't want to be a gunman, has no interest in having a reputation, but now, because of what he did while with Fast Larry...he does have the reputation. All of a sudden everyone thinks he IS a top gun, a fast-drawing, straight-shooting, never-back-down big time gunman. And, of course, all the wanna be gunslingers, all of them wanting to build their reputations, they all want a piece of Cray Dawson...each one of them wants to be known as \\"the man who killed Cray Dawson.\\"<br /><br />  And so, life as he once knew it, has changed forever for Cray. Once home again, he gets involved with the sister of the dead girl, the sister of the woman he'd loved so much. The relationship between these two is as interesting as everything else in this terrific book.<br /><br />  I've recently discovered the writing of Ralph Cotton, and have become a huge fan. I am a published writer myself, with five books in print, not westerns, but recently I started to write some westerns. In the process I began to read as many westerns as possible, by as many different writers as I could, to see what I could learn from the pros. I had long been a fan of Louis L'Amour, and have come to appreciate a number of other excellent new western writers, too. However, none of them has much of anything over Ralph Cotton. Cotton knows what he's doing, has a solid grasp of what it takes to create a western that is believable, full of action, one that moves fast, a book with characters you care about, and one that's satisfying and fun to read. If you've never read any Ralph Cotton, check him out, for sure. And do read Gunman's Song, and Between Hell and Texas...you won't be disappointed.sure. And do read Gunman's Song, and Between Hell and Texas...you won't be disappointed. <br />	2005-03-20
US	50587402	R3GVKIMFTVO6K0	0843955090	182512881	Purgatoire (Leisure Western)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	First Class Piece of Western Fiction	Purgatoire is an award-winning book, and after reading it, it's easy to see why it won the highest prize for new Westerns. Not long ago I'd read The Big Fifty by Johnny Boggs, and was mightily impressed with its accuracy, color, pace, and most of all with its characters that I actually cared about.<br /><br />  Purgatoire is every bit as good as The Big Fifty, and that's saying a lot. I am a writer myself, with five books published, and I recently started to write Westerns. Actually, I just finsihed writing my second Western late last night. I had decided some time ago, that I would read as many books, by as many new writers of Westerns as I could, so I could see for myself what they were doing well, and the reverse. Many of these new writers have greatly impressed me with their story-telling skills, with books that were extremely enjoyable to read...but I must admit that so far, none has impressed me quite so much as Johnny Boggs.<br /><br />  In Purgatoire, a drunken gunfighter and ex-lawman, Ben Cameron, widely known through out the West as 'The Scottish Gun,' arrives in the dying town of Purgatoire. He is running from trouble, is in the beginning a totally despicable character, about as sorry a drunk as one might find in literature. He meets a whore by the name of Amie Courtland, a once beautiful girl whose face had been slashed with a broken whiskey bottle by some drunken patron.<br /><br />  Ben meets Amie, she's nice to him, he acts like a swine, but things happen. There is plenty of action in this story, all the shooting and gore one would want in a Western, but there is so much more. Murders are taking place, one after another in the town, and Ben Cameron ends up involved in it all, in helping to try to solve the crimes...all of this is quite engaging, fine story telling, a curious puzzle that the reader too, is trying to figure out...but best of all is the development of the characters themselves...they change. And the heroes of Purgatoire are not the standard, run of the mill, Mr Perfect & MS Perfect kinds at all; they are the opposite, downtrodden, unlucky, people no one admires...until the end, when we, the readers, admire them greatly for the way they rise to the occasion.<br /><br />  There was one line in this book, when Cameron looks at Amie, who's just said something about her ruined face, and he says...and I'm probably not quoting this perfectly, but he says: \\"Those scars could never hide your pretty face, Amie.\\"  And he melts her cold heart right then, and he plum near melted mine, too. I highly recommend this excellent book!f the mill, Mr Perfect & MS Perfect kinds at all; they are the opposite, downtrodden, unlucky, people no one admires...until the end, when we, the readers, admire them greatly for the way they rise to the occasion. <br />   There was one line in this book, when Cameron looks at Amie, who's just said something about her ruined face, and he says...and I'm probably not quoting this perfectly, but he says: \\"Those scars could never hide your pretty face, Amie.\\"  And he melts her cold heart right then, and he plum near melted mine, too. I highly recommend this excellent book! <br />	2005-03-14
US	50587402	R2MAXRDT3HUX0Y	0449140822	584780692	TRAP FOR BUCHANAN	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Terrific Western!!!	Wow, I just discovered a \\"new\\" Western writer, whose work I simply love! Jonas Ward wrote a lot of novels and I don't know if he's still alive, if he's still writing or what...but I do know he darn sure could write. I recently wrote my own first Western...normally I write gardening books...am the author of Safe Sex in the Garden, and also of, Allergy-free Gardening, among other books I've published. But I started reading Westerns some time ago, got hooked especially on Louis L'Amour's Westerns, and have recently been reading Westerns by a host of new writers...check out Kirby Jonas, J. Lee Butts, and certainly do look for Johnny Boggs...all of them new writers writing darn good Westerns...In the process I just happened on this one, Trap For Buchanan...am mighty glad I did, too.<br /><br />  I just tonight finished reading Trap for Buchanan, one in a series of Jonas Ward Westerns that follow his character, big, tough, likeable Tom Buchanan...a man who doesn't like trouble, never seeks trouble, a man who doesn't like shooting or killing...but a man who trouble always seems to find.<br /><br />  This story is told through many points of view...through the eyes of two orphan kids, through the eyes of a thief and gambler, through the eyes of an old con artist bar hawg lady, and of course through the bold eyes of Tom Buchanan. Tom is supposed to meet up with an old codger buddy of his, Mousetrap Mulligan, a hard drinking, big talking, tough old coot, a fellow who has just made a big, secret gold strike way up in the Black Mountains. Old Mousetrap runs his mouth while drinking and playing poker in town, and pretty soon everyone is out to get him and his gold.<br /><br />  There's no point in laying out the whole plot of the story in this review, but there is point in encouraging readers to check out this book, and in particular this author. From the first page I liked the book, liked the writing, strong, clear, full of action, full of characters you can care about. I am totally looking forward to reading a whole lot more books by Jonas Ward. I have been a huge fan of Louis L'Amour, a fellow who flat out knew how to write a good Western...and am tickled pink to come across Jonas Ward, another writer who so obviously understood, as did L'Amour, what it takes to create a damn fine Western. Check this one out...pure pleasure...and have a look at any of the Jonas Ward Westerns...It would be my reasoned guess that all of them are excellent.tally looking forward to reading a whole lot more books by Jonas Ward. I have been a huge fan of Louis L'Amour, a fellow who flat out knew how to write a good Western...and am tickled pink to come across Jonas Ward, another writer who so obviously understood, as did L'Amour, what it takes to create a damn fine Western. Check this one out...pure pleasure...and have a look at any of the Jonas Ward Westerns...It would be my reasoned guess that all of them are excellent.	2005-02-19
US	50587402	R1AY72CW5AMCOU	0425199150	444467018	A Bad Day to Die: The Adventures of Lucius "By God" Dodge, Texas Ranger	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	First Class Writing, an Excellent Read!	I just finished reading J. Lee Butts' book, A Bad Day to Die, the adventures of Lucius \\"By God\\" Dodge, Texas Ranger. What a book! Butts is an exceptional writer, has an unusual gift for clever dialog, and is one who flat out knows how to tell a tall Western tale properly.<br /><br /> The book picks up on Lucius Dodge as an old man talking to an old Ranger partner, and then flashes back to one of the craziest, meanest, bloodiest, nastiest cases Dodge and his partner Boz Tatum ever worked on...the Nightshade murders. The two young Texas Rangers, tough, smart, hard working honest fellows are sent to Sweetwater, Texas, a town terrorized by a big family of thugs, the notorious Nightshades.<br /><br /> Two different beautiful girls fall for the handsome young Ranger, Dodge, one the impetuous, sweet-kissing, straight-shooting, green-eyed Martye, sixteen year old daughter from a big, dirt poor family of farmers, and the other the pistol-packing, hard-assed, gorgeous Nance Nightshade. Dodge is no ladies man by any means, often embarrassed by the obvious attentions of these two different, but extremely attractive females.<br /><br /> A Bad Day to Dies isn't light reading, it's a tough book, it doesn't have fairy tale ending, it isn't a book that seems destined to be a Hollywood movie...too real for Hollywood, but what this excellent Western novel is, is historically accurate, hard-hitting, true to the flavor of time and place, and above all, interesting at every point. The deeper into the story the reader gets, the more difficult it is put this exciting book down. Told in the first person by an older and wiser Lucius Dodge, the flow of remarkable similes and metaphors is staggering, the book has the feel of one that was written and then re-written and polished over and over, and of one that was written by a real pro, a wordsmith with uncommon and serious skills. If you've never yet had the pleasure of reading J. Lee Butts, and you appreciate a good story set in the Wild West as it actually was, check out this talented writer. A Bad Day to Die is one mighty fine Western novel. Highly recommended.y was, check out this talented writer. A Bad Day to Die is one mighty fine Western novel. Highly recommended.  <br />	2005-02-17
US	50587402	R2EGBLBV623KEF	0553253212	41265131	Over on the Dry Side	Books	5	18	19	N	N	One of Louis L'Amour's Best Westerns	If you, like me, love most of the books by Louis L'Amour, and you've never read Over On The Dry Side, do check it out. This is the story of a young fellow who grows up poor and lonely, and loses his mother at a young age. He and his hard-luck dad find a carefully built deserted cabin and they move in and start ranching. Trouble soon finds them, but so too does a mysterious stranger.<br /><br />  Up high in the surrounding dry hills there is another finely built cabin, built by the same long gone and mysterious man, a man who supposedly had stashed a big cache of gold before he was killed.<br /><br />  In the nearby hills there is a band of killers who want that gold. Over on the Dry Side is a mystery as much as it is a western. Clues are found and the reader along with the characters in the book ...all are trying to figure out where the stash is, and what it is, as it may be gold, but may not be either. The story is told almost always through the eyes of the young boy, who is about 16. Up in the hills in the other hidden and deserted cabin he finds a little pot of flowers and realizes that a female, a girl probably, left those flowers. He starts to daydream about this girl, pictures her as young and beautiful, as well she does turn out to be. She however, isn't exactly as he has envisioned her to be...she's beautiful but not like he has \\"seen\\" her in his mind. As the book evolves, the boy becomes very jealous of the stranger, the man who turns out to be the brother of the original man who had built the cabins. The story is compelling at all points, the pages turn and you have to keep on reading. Told through the eyes of the young boy, the story has a fresh feel to it, and the reader gets to really care about him and what will happen. In all respects, one of L'Amour's finest books; a real pleasure to read. Do yourself a favor and check out On The Dry Side. I predict, you'll love it.	2005-02-17
US	50587402	R1VD3G292E1HH8	0553252313	152594585	Flint: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Flint is one of L'Amour's Best Westerns	I've read quite a few westerns by the late, great Louis L'Amour, but had never read Flint. Was quite curious to do so, as I recently wrote a western myself and have been email corresponding with a good number of other newer writers of westerns...and one book that almost all of them admired in particular, was Flint.<br /><br />  Having just finished reading Flint, it is easy to see why this one in particular is so highly respected by the western writers. In Flint, the main character is an educated, urbane, complex fellow, a man really with no real name. He goes off from New York after a doctor tells him he is dying, goes off to the west where he had first come from...goes there to die. Once there, he takes the name Jim Flint, after a gunfighter, also Flint, who had raised him.<br /><br />  Flint thinks he's going to go to this hide out he knows of, kick back and die in peace, but of course he is wrong. As soon as he gets off the train trouble starts. Flint is a man who thinks he's soon to die, and as such he \\"just doesn't give a damn.\\" This makes him one unusual character. Flint is a book with a complex plot, full of interesting twists and turns, and although I've enjoyed almost every Louis L'Amour book I've read, this one really does stand out as a classic. A book that's hard to put down, fun to read, and hard to beat, Flint is a MUST read for every fan of good westerns. Highly recommended.	2005-02-17
US	50587402	RJNA6TZ93R1T8	1891423002	877729094	The Dansing Star	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The dansing Star is a Winner!	Just read Kirby Jonas's The Dansing Star and I flat out loved this book. Dansing Star is about a fellow who was raised by Indians, but goes \\"white\\" again. As such, he is not quite accepted by either the Indians or the whites.<br /><br />  Dansing, the main character, goes off on the trail of some bank robbers and eventually is on the trail of a man who killed the woman he loved. He gets into all manner of trouble, and the group of criminal brothers he gets stuck with...well, they are something else!<br /><br />  All the characters are well drawn, the conversations sharp, clean, always interesting. The story moves along very fast...the book is a real page-turner. There is a good deal of history in this book too, all of it well told, fascinating. More than any western I remember reading, Dansing Star gives an honest point of view from the Indians side of things.<br /><br />  This was the first one of Kirby Jonas's books that I've read, and it was great fun to find a new western writer whose work I enjoyed so much. I passed the book on to my brother, who loves westerns, and he was keen on it, too. Jonas is a darn fine writer, the book is just flat out terrific and I expect anyone who enjoys a good action story will appreciate it. I highly recommend The Dansing Star.	2005-02-15
US	50587402	R3105UN4I96QG1	0843953187	389360424	The Big Fifty	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	The Big Fifty is a Fabulous Western!!	1872, Kansas.<br /><br />When twelve-year-old Coady McIlvain and his dad are attacked by Indians, everything changes for him. His father is scalped and Coady is taken prisoner. Coady eventually escapes and ends up with a buffalo hunting, fifty caliber Sharps rifle packing, sharpshooter named Dylan Griffith.<br /><br />Before coming West, young Coady has read a ton of dime westerns and his hero is the great Buffalo Bill Cody. The way the boy mixes up what he has in his mind from the books he's read, with the reality of what he runs into...if utterly fascinating at all times.<br /><br />  The Big Fifty has by far the very best portrayal of the buffalo hunters I've ever read...the endless killing, the piles of buffalo hides, the stinking, rotting carcasses, the seemingly limitless amount of bones and buffalo.<br /><br />  The buffalo hunter, Dylan Griffith, is an unusual hero too...he's a good guy, a printer by trade, better educated than most buffalo men, but not all good by any means, he kills thousands of buffalo, all the while knowing he's killing off a way of life that will never return. The Indians in this fabulously good read, they're all different, some are disgusting, mean, cruel, and others are decent, brave, considerate. The Big Fifty is a wild, rollicking tale, one that starts out with a bang, never ever lets the reader down for one moment, a book that keeps you turning the pages and reading long into the night. I just flat out loved The Big Fifty and I intend to get more books by Johnny D. Boggs and read them. Boggs is a wonderful writer and anyone who appreciates a western with lots of flavor and action, ought to really enjoy the Big Fifty. I highly recommend this terrific book! Sure to be a classic.	2005-02-15
US	50587402	RKX6WO5S2ZEXS	0595310575	195266861	Tristeza: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Tristeza is a Marvelously Good Book!	The main character of this fine story is young Will Riley, a college educated cowboy, slumming down in Mexico in the 1930's.  In Mexico he meets the famous Mexican painters Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, and the beautiful, fascinating, mysterious Tristeza, who sweeps him off his feet.<br /><br />  This novel is an interesting mix of old and new, a western set during the Depression, but with a two fisted cowboy hero who packs a six gun....The book has a touch of science fiction to it, too, and somewhat reminds me of the terrific novel,100 Years of Solitude...in that the reader is best off it just go with the flow, just get into the story and let it take you where it will.<br /><br />  A romantic story, this one is about true love, about love at first sight, but it is far more than a romance...it is a wonderful piece of historical fiction, captures perfectly the flavor or the place and time, and wraps up the reader in a web of unusual action. If you like westerns and like to read something different, do check out Tristeza. Richard D. Jensen writes very well, and this is a marvelously good book. I highly recommend it!	2005-02-15
US	50587402	R3ESYBVUJAISSK	0451210921	909078675	Gunman's Song (Ralph Cotton Western Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	One of the Best Westerns I Ever Read.	I just now finished reading Gunman's Song by Ralph Cotton, and wow! was I impressed. Seriously, I'm a writer myself and I love it when I find a new (new to me anyhow) writer whose work I'm crazy about. This is the first one of Ralph Cotton's books that I've ever read, and it certainly won't be the last. If you like westerns, if you enjoyed Louis L'Amour and you liked Lonesome Dove, then I can pretty well guarantee you'll love Gunman's Song. Cotton can flat out tell a tall tale, he can write like nobody's business.<br /><br />  This is a story of a fast draw gun slinger, who is out for revenge....but it is way more than that. All the characters come alive on the page, the conversations they have are just too cool...I really can't say enough about this book. I've read a few westerns that are heads above all the rest, Lonesome Dove, The Searchers, and I'd put this one right up there with them. It's that good.<br /><br />  One more thing: even if you don't normally read westerns...check this one out. The interplay between the characters is so clean, so sharply focused, the dialog so crisp and interesting, the action so hardnosed and true. You can't beat Gunman's Song...it's just one awesome good western, no two ways about it.	2005-01-18
US	50587402	R1JEVB4P3MQU0D	0786015969	274779568	Vengeance Valley	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One Terrific Western!	I just finished reading Vengeance Valley by Richard S Wheeler and I certainly did enjoy it. I write gardening books (Allergy-free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, etc. ) but I just wrote my own first western and I had been emailing different authors of westerns, asking them for advice on editors and agents and so on...and a good number of them suggested I read some of the books by Richard Wheeler, saying that he was considered by the other western writers to be one of the best new writers out there.<br /><br />  After reading this book, I would have to agree. This book was not the typical western at all, and had characters quite unlike any I'd seen in westerns before, but I liked them, they were interesting, smart, and different. Wheeler knows the West very well, and has an excellent sense of history that comes through clearly in his writing. I read a great many Louis L'Amour westerns, which I do love, and Wheeler writes another sort of western, but a satisfying one. There is real depth to his characters, feeling, they come alive on the page.<br /><br />  I plan to recommend this book to my friends who like a good western, and plan to buy some more of his other books and read them too. I highly recommend that you check out Vengeance Valley, and this author. If you've never read him, I expect you're in for a pleasant surprise.	2005-01-15
US	50587402	R18Z057D708F7S	055328083X	910454221	Fallon: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fallon is a Remarkable Book!	With Fallon Louis L'Amour comes up with a very different main character. Fallon isn't a gunfighter or cattleman; he's a gambler and a complicated individual. I've read a great many excellent books by Louis L'Amour, and have enjoyed all of them but to be honest, they are uneven. By this I mean that some of them are much better than others.<br /><br />  Fallon is one that I flat out loved; one that I remember well, and of all of L'Amour's always fun to read Westerns, I think Fallon is one of the best.	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R2YFEACHMZO9G3	055327676X	489676925	Lando: The Sacketts: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Landois a Winner!	I was reading over some of these reviews and saw that some readers had given Lando a luke warm rating. Had to put in my own two cents.<br /><br />  I thought Lando was flat out terrific! This character is a bit different than many of Louis L'Amour's main men, and I liked the differences. Lando is full of action and the fist fighting scenes are top notch.... the best. I've read perhaps a hundred of L'Amour's books; have enjoyed all of them, some more so than others, but Lando is a winner. Darn good read.	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R222TLQH3GUDK6	0553280406	112450581	The Walking Drum: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not a Western, But it IS Terrific!	The Walking Drum, by Louis L'Amour, is, unlike almost all of his books, it isn't a Western, but is rather a historical book set many centuries ago in what is now modern Europe.<br /><br />  The main character, Kerbouchard, is just a boy when we first meet him. Like all of L'Amour's books, this one is just packed with action and excitement, and like most of his work, this one too is full of interesting history. I am reviewing The Walking Drum because I'd like to encourage all of you who have read his Westerns to read this one too. It is a big, full book, and it is completely fun and entertaining in all respects.<br /><br />  I am a writer myself (I have five published books now) and the more I read of Louis L'Amour, the more I admire how well he tells a tall tale, how rich his books are in historical fact, how clear and refreshing his characters are, and especially how totally adept Louis L'Amour was at writing books that keep his millions of readers turning the pages.<br /><br />  Louis L'Amour wrote many marvelous books and The Walking Drum is easily one of his very finest. Check it out; I predict you'll love it!	2004-10-29
US	50587402	RB2XEOKO7UNJ4	0553280406	112450581	The Walking Drum: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Not a Western, But it IS Terrific!	The Walking Drum, by Louis L'Amour, is, unlike almost all of his books, it isn't a Western, but is rather a historical book set many centuries ago in what is now modern Europe. <br />  The main character, Kerbouchard, is just a boy when we first meet him. Like all of L'Amour's books, this one is just packed with action and excitement, and like most of his work, this one too is full of interesting history. I am reviewing The Walking Drum because I'd like to encourage all of you who have read his Westerns to read this one too. It is a big, full book, and it is completely fun and entertaining in all respects. <br />   I am a writer myself (I have five published books now) and the more I read of Louis L'Amour, the more I admire how well he tells a tall tale, how rich his books are in historical fact, how clear and refreshing his characters are, and especially how totally adept Louis L'Amour was at writing books that keep his millions of readers turning the pages. <br />  Louis L'Amour wrote many marvelous books and The Walking Drum is easily one of his very finest. Check it out; I predict you'll love it! <br />	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R2Z7CY6K6LWXOB	0553275615	226831491	Comstock Lode: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Comstock is a Gold Mine of Fun Reading!	I just finished reading Comstock last week, when I happened to be up in the California gold country myself. I'm a garden writer, author of 5 published books, and I was in Placer County, speaking to the Auburn Garden Club. The town of Auburn, which sits in the middle of the gold rush's richest territory, is a neat place, one to visit if you get the chance. I noticed too that there is still a very busy mining supply store right on one of Auburn's main streets. There's still gold and silver being found up there!<br /><br />  But I digress: All of us who read Louis L'Amour's Westerns have probably noticed that while all of them are fun to read, some are certainly better than others. I thought that Comstock was darn good, and certainly one of the best of his books set in California. If you enjoy a fast-paced, action packed Western, I expect you'll like Comstock. I recommend it!	2004-10-29
US	50587402	RMWURVLX8UKWD	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	4	4	N	N	As Valuable Today as When it Was first Written	I am writing this review of How to Win Friends and Influence People, because I want to encourage everyone to read it. If you've already read it in the past, I would encourage you to read it over once again, as I just recently did myself.<br /><br />  Few books that I've ever read have been of as much help to me as this one. Dale Carnegie was both an unusually intelligent, observant man and a terrific writer. Although this book is now quite old, it has easily passed the test of time and it's sage advice on how to succeed and enjoy life, is as good as ever.<br /><br />  All of Carnegie's methods for success are built on truth, compassion, respect, reasoning, and common sense. I first read this book some 30+ years ago and was amazed by it. When I tried to live my life using his advice, everything worked better for me. I have given away many copies of it over the years to others, and encourage you to buy an extra copy or two, and to give them as gifts to those you love.<br /><br />  I am a writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, etc.) and getting established as a writer took me many long years of rejection and perseverance. This book helped me to hang in there and keep plugging away.<br /><br />  Of all the many good advice books on how to get ahead and enjoy life, there is none better than How to Win Friends and Influence People.	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R29L2OOVN3ME4D	0553280813	752374821	Down the Long Hills: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	My All Time Favorite Luis L'Amour!	Down the Long Hills is as far as I know, the only book Louis L'Amour wrote where the main characters are kids, little kids at that.<br /><br />  I have now read perhaps a hundred books by L'Amour and I have enjoyed every single one of them, even if I did find a few of them to be not nearly as good as most of them. This one though, Down The Long Hills, it is my favorite! After I'd read it I gave a copy to my sister, who is a second grade teacher. She read it and loved it too, and I doubt if she had ever read any Westerns before. She was so impressed on how tough the little boy and little girl in the story were...at how much they knew, compared to children now who have things so much easier. My sister is now reading Down the Long Hills to her own classes, a few pages each day, and the kids are all captivated by it.<br /><br />  I fully expect that if this book were promoted as a kids' book, or as a young adult book, that it would become a huge, smash it. But don't think that the book is just for kids because it isn't at all. Adults will love this book too, for sure.<br /><br />  I am a writer myself with five published books to my credit and I know and understand how difficult it is to write a book where the action just jumps off the page. No writer of Westerns was more a master of the craft than Luis L'Amour, and this little book may well be his finest.<br /><br />  All of Louis L'Amour's books are fun to read and action packed but this story really gets to you. The first few pages of Down the Long Hills are as well crafted as any novel I've ever read. The reader is immediately tossed head over heels right into the action and the fast paced adventure never lets up for a second. Down the Long Hills is a wonderful, marvelous tall tale, an all around terrific read. I recommend it highly!	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R2C70ON79VYJGH	0553269135	578907395	How the West Was Won: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of L'Amour's Very Best!	I just finished reading How the West Was Won and have got to say that it is a mighty fine read! This Western has it all, fun, funny, scary, exciting, a fabulous tall tale of adventure.<br /><br />  If for some reason you have never read any of Louis L'Amour's books, you have been missing out on a real treat. I am a writer myself (Allergy-Free gardening, safe sex in the Garden, and other books) and I have to admit that for most of my life I was snobby about reading any Louis L'Amour. However, less than a year ago my brother encouraged me to try some of them, and immediately I was hooked. I, like many others, no am almost always reading one, and as soon as I finish it I find another and start in on it. I mean, they are just too much fun to be missed.<br /><br />  Some think too that his books are only for men, but I have found that women and many kids too really enjoy them. No one could write better adventure than L'Amour, and certainly no one could write a better Western.<br /><br />  This particular book, How the West Was Won, is one of his best. It is a big, fun, rip-snorting book and I highly recommend it.	2004-10-29
US	50587402	R1591J2FEMWXVO	0312287674	586969602	From the Ground Up: The Story of a First Garden	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An interesting, beautiful, fascinating book!	I read Amy Stewart's fine book, From the Ground Up, last week on a very long plane ride home to California from Indianapolis, Indiana. I'd been to Indianapolis to speak to the Indiana Arborists' Association convention, as I am a garden writer myself (Allergy-free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, etc.). My flight was delayed due to a snowstorm in Detroit but the extra long trip was made more than okay because I had this delightful book to read.<br />  I'd received From the Ground Up as a present from my Mom. It is the story of one lady's first attempt at gardening, and as one who taught horticulture for 20 years, and who has gardened for almost 50 years, it was remarkable fun for me to see all the little mistakes she made, the discoveries she uncovered, the personal disasters and achievements that accompanied her quest to create a wonderful garden.<br />  Really great gardens don't just happen, not at all. They are created with huge effort, smarts, learning, help and advice from other gardeners, with tips from garden books, and most of all by the vision of the gardener in charge.<br />  There exists within the wide range of garden writing a host of some rather fabulously good writing. These are the books that combine solid garden advice with a large dose of very personal observance and experience. Although From the Ground Up is a first book, it reads as though written by someone who had been writing for many years, someone who had honed and polished her writing so that every line sparkled. I would expect that this book would appeal most to those who love to garden, but because the level of writing is so unusually excellent, I'd guess almost anyone who appreciates literate writing would enjoy it.<br />  If you're one who is new to gardening you'll find a wealth of useful tips here, interspersed with some darn good recipes too for making gourmet meals of all that extra fresh produce you'll eventually have. I really can't say enough about this marvelous book. Reading it was pure pleasure.ure pleasure.	2004-01-23
US	50587402	R1YCV167ZSF3EY	0375505253	775151613	Logan's Storm: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Logan's Storm is a Whole lot of Fun!	I read Logan's Storm on a long plane ride last week and enjoyed it very much. This book continues where the other two of Ken Wells' Cajun books leave off, but it is the story of the dad this time, and his adventures.<br />  For anyone who has never read anything by Ken Wells, I think you have a treat in store for you. My brother first discovered this writer about a year ago when he read Meely Labauve. He passed the book on to me; I loved it, gave it to my wife and she loved it too. We then bought and read the next one, Junior's Leg, a real hoot! Tons of fun, some serious laughs in Junior's Leg.<br />  I'm a writer myself (Allergy-free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, etc.) and I love to find new authors whose material is terrific. This is how I feel about Ken Wells and his writing. It is fresh, lively, different, touching, sometimes profound, never preachy, and completely colorful. I keep waiting to see his books make it to the bestseller lists....they deserve to be there, and I think it is just a matter of time. Too good to pass up. Check this book out!	2004-01-20
US	50587402	ROYENR5SWXZEM	0804713855	54308386	Fishes of the Pacific Coast: From Alaska to Peru	Books	5	13	13	N	N	My Very Favorite Fish Book	I do a lot of fishing and own quite a few books on fish. I also keep a life-time fish list, a list of every species of fish I have ever caught that I was able to correctly ID. I have found Fishes of the Pacific Coast by Gar Goodson in particular to be very useful for ID purposes, but I also find it to be very good writing, highly interesting, and full of information that most other fish ID books usually lack. For example, he tells you here if a fish is considered good eating, or not. He tells you where they are found, in how deep of water, locals, tidbits of history about the fish, and also what they eat.<br />  I recently bought two new books on fish, one about fish of the Gulf of Mexico and another on fish of the Atlantic Ocean and looking them over I kept finding things missing; I suddenly realized how much better this book of Goodson's is.<br />  The many illustrations by the artist Phillip J. Weisgerber are all excellent and every single one of them is in color. I am a writer myself, author of some 5 published books now,... and I appreciate books that are put together with care, appreciate writing that is fun and interesting and highly informative. Fishes of the Pacific Coast is an inexpensive book and a darn good one. If you fish in the Pacific you'll want to own this book and will find that having it, and bringing it along on fishing trips will add a great deal to your pleasure. Also, I would certainly recommend this book as a present for anyone who is interested in nature,in fish, in fishing. A marvelous book and one of my favorites for sure!	2003-11-10
US	50587402	R1GUZRR22X4H4M	0140187502	163297853	Sweet Thursday (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	My Least favorite of all his books.	I almost never bother to write a negative book review but on Sweet Thursday I'll make that exception. I have read every single book that John Steinbeck published and I enjoyed every single one of them, except this one. It rambled on and on, wasn't focused in the least, didn't hold my attention. I only kept reading because I expected it to get better. But it didn't and I must confess, I never made it much more than half way through it.<br />  It is odd too, because Steinbeck is a real master, a fabulous writer, creator of stories and charters that will outlast most of us. But this one didn't get it for me, this one could have used more editing. Still, one dog out of so many great books, it is a darn good record. By the way, just finished reading Down to a Soundless Sea, by his son, Thomas Steinbeck, and I was quite impressed with it...great stories, fine writing. Check it out and take a pass on Sweet Thursday.	2003-11-05
US	50587402	RKHWSZB77QN2H	0345455762	491946247	Down to a Soundless Sea	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent, entertaining, different.	Just finished Thomas Steinbeck's book and did enjoy it very much. The characters are odd and varied and all seem perfectly real....I expect most are based on real people. Most of these stories, for this is a collection of (not too) short stories, are stories that were repeated around the Steinbeck dinner table when Thomas's dad, John, was still alive.<br />  The writing style of some of these stories is quite formal, stiff almost at times, and yet they still seem to work. Although the writing is formalized it does have a beauty to it often, a lyrical quality, great selection of words.<br />  In many ways this writing of the son of Steinbeck does remind me of the writing of the father, and certainly that's a good thing. I live on the Central Coast of California where most of these stories take place, and the history in these episodes is right on the money.<br />  If I had one complaint, it would be the same one I've always had for John Steinbeck's writing too: both authors are perhaps overly fond of the tragic ending...which I find odd. I myself am a writer (Birthday Boy, Happy Hour, Safe Sex in the Garden, Allergy-Free Gardening, etc.) and I don't prentend to been even in the same league as John Steinbeck, but still: Every writer I ever met was first of all, dying to get published; then they were dying to make some good sales, to get good reviews, to make some money, to savor some fame. Few writers quite pull this off, but John Steinbeck did so and then some. He was a smash success at an early age and sold books like mad for most of his adult life. I would think his view of the world would be strongly positive, but the opposite seems to be the case. The red pony dies, the huge pearl ruins everything, the big guy accidentally kills the girl, the funny guy trips on a board and breaks his neck. Thomas Steinbeck gets into this tragedy groove too, certainly in the last story in the book, which is the best one too, the strongest,,,,but not to give away the ending.<br />  I think, bottom line is this: it is a really good book, very interesting and well worth reading. The son writes darn well. Must be in his blood., bottom line is this: it is a really good book, very interesting and well worth reading. The son writes darn well. Must be in his blood.	2003-11-05
US	50587402	R1YA5IL8HJZYNG	1582380929	947099367	Trees of North America: A Guide to Field Identification, Revised and Updated (Golden Field Guide f/St. Martin's Press)	Books	5	79	81	N	N	A Terrific Book!	I am a garden writer, horticulturist and botanist and I think Golden Books' Trees of North America is a darn good book. It is small enough to shove in a pocket and take along on hikes...it is easy to use, full of good information, and makes tree ID easy in most cases.<br />  I recommend this book as a present for anyone interested in trees, in Nature, in gardening. Although it is a Golden Book and is easy to use and understand, it is by no means a book just for kids. This is an excellent book, as was the older Golden Books Trees of North America, a book I have taken along with me on many a trip. Worth every penny of the price and then some!	2003-10-28
US	50587402	R29DYHNKCB3M2X	1565121813	386843335	The Writer in the Garden	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Wonderful Collection of Brilliant Garden Writing.	The Writer in the Garden, edited cleverly by Jane Garmey, is a terrific little book. It is an attractive book too, the cover is pleasing, the type good, the actual materials of the book itself are well-made, pleasing to hold in your hand.<br />  This book would appeal the most to two sorts of folks I'd think. One, those who are die-hard gardeners, who just love to garden, who actually do garden. And two, the book would appeal to those who appreciate extra fine writing. I noticed long ago that for some reason, some of the very finest writing I see in non-fiction is about fishing, boxing, and gardening. Somehow these topics appeal to many who write especially well. This book is packed with work from the best in the field.<br />  The Writer in the Garden is thought provoking, exploring why we garden, why we care so passionately about it. I am a garden writer myself (Allergy-free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, etc.) and I think that all garden writers themselves would do well to read this book, to see how the masters write, to elevate our own prose.<br />  This is a top notch book with much to recommend it. I expect too it would make a beautiful present for that person who already has everything he or she needs, and who loves to garden and read.	2003-09-12
US	50587402	R5NKP0SU1K7CC	189344306X	345906226	Questions and Answers for Deep South Gardeners	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic, fun, fact-filled book for Southern Gardeners!	Questions and Answers for Deep South Gardeners, by Nellie Neal, is one excellent book! The entire book is made up of sensible questions and then the intelligent answers. The book is very readable, which will come as no big surprise to the many people who have heard the author on her gardening radio show. Nellie Neal, who is know far and wide as The Garden Mamma, is down to earth, funny as the dickens, practical, smart, and she knows a ton about gardening, especially gardening in the South.<br />  Nellie lives and gardens in Jackson, Mississippi, and knows all the ins and outs of southern horticulture. I'm a garden writer myself, (Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden) and I have a MS degree in horticulture, but I was sill amazed at all the interesting and useful things I learned reading this fascinating book. I think too that you'll find that it is the sort of book that you can keep going back to, re-reading with pleasure, and finding more useful garden advice with each new reading. This fine book would make an excellent present also, especially for anyone at all new to gardening in the South. But get a copy for yourself too; you'll love it.	2003-09-11
US	50587402	RZ87PYBNPFBOD	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Fun, Fabulous Book!	Last week I finished reading the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency and just last night I finished reading the next one, Tears of the Giraffe.<br />  I am so tickled to have discovered another author whose work I just love. My entire family is now reading these books by Alexander McCall Smith and everyone is loving them.<br />  It isn't often you come on a book quite so fun, so interesting, so well constructed, or one that really moves you. These books are doing it to me, in spades. Tears of the Giraffe follows the lady detective, Precious, and it expands, introducing more characters, all ones that feel real, ones that are easy to care about. These books take place in Africa, in Botswana, a place that this author is putting on the map. I write too...and I am always looking for authors who can write books that are fun to read, books where I have to keep turning pages, but especially books with characters that I give a damn about. Tears of the Giraffe has it all but I would recommend that you start with the first one, No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency and take it from there. Best bunch of new novels for the Summer of 2003!	2003-07-04
US	50587402	R30HEC2HTW281T	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Don't Miss This One!!!!	I just can't say enough about the Number One Ladies' Detective Agency! In my own family my aunty, who had lived in Africa for several years, she first found this book and read it, and loved it. Then my mom read it and was crazy about it (and she's a retired librarian who reads a ton of novels). Next my sister, another librarian, read it and likewise was nuts about it too. My dad even read it, and he almost never reads any fiction at all....he was crazy about it also. My wife read it and is almost finished now with the next one from this exciting \\"new\\" author. I just finished it yesterday and knew I would have to review this book, would have to try and encourage others to read it.<br />  I think I'll read all of the books in the series, and I understand there are four of them.<br />  Botswana. I confess I didn't know much of anything about it before this book, but here Botswana comes alive, becomes completely real. The heroine of these books, the big, fat, smart, really wonderful character Precious Ramotswe, she is just too clever and fun. One little mystery after another unfolds here, each of them totally absorbing. I read the occasional mystery, but this one is easily my favorite.<br />  I'm a writer myself (Safe Sex in the Garden, Allergy-Free Gardening, etc.) and I so appreciate writing that is fresh, fun, inventive, imaginative, full of discovery and surprise, and this novel has it all. There were several parts in the book that made me cry too, not from sadness, but from pure joy. A simply marvelous book. If a book ever did completely deserve five stars, this is the one. Treat yourself to a copy and you won't be able to put it down. When you finish it, give it to someone who doesn't read much, and I expect that this one they'll not only finish, but they'll love it too. A rare find; a simply terrific book!	2003-06-29
US	50587402	R2MH6Y7FUSIH0W	1571880755	489944052	Angling Baja: One Man's Fly Fishing Journey Through the Surf	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Fly fishing with Brains, Wit, Charm and Soul.	Last week I bought a few books from Amazon and needed to spend a few dollars more to get free shipping. I did a quick search and came up with this book, Angling Baja, and bought it because it was about saltwater fly-fishing and because it was cheap.<br />  I got the book in the mail yesterday and started reading snippets of it, and immediately, I was hooked.<br />  Tonight I turned off the TV and spent the past three hours or so reading this little marvel. And a real gem it is too. Over the years I have occasionally found some damn fine writing that centered on sports, usually on boxing or fishing, or occasionally even on baseball. This book, this writer, Scott Sadil, is totally impressive.<br />  I am a writer myself  ( Birthday Boy, Happy Hour, Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden ) and like Sadil I've had a life of ups and plenty of downs, and like him I appreciate a good story, a full glass of whiskey, a nice fly rod, surfing, any kind of fish caught on a fly, and all sorts of other things...but read his book for that.<br />  As soon as I finished reading tonight I decided I would get right on the computer and write a review of it. I'm hoping to write one that will compel you who happens to read this, to order this book. I used to believe that a truly fine writer would automatically become successful as soon as he (or she) was published...but that isn't true at all. Genius isn't always recognized by any means, and I speak of Sadil's writing here, not mine. (Im recognized now, just not a genius Im afraid). I Googled Scott Sadil, hoping to come up with thousands of hits but found a mere 312 references to him. I was hoping too, to discover that he'd published a novel, and was disappointed to see that he hadnt, yet.<br />  I did see that Sadil does have a second, newer book, Cast from the Edge: Tales of an Uncommon Fly Fisher. Im going to buy that book too, and am almost certain that it will be terrific. But I really do want to see a novel from this writer. He has a writers eye for things, a writers ear that picks up the best tidbits of dialog, he has that novelists sense of where the meat is, and hes got plenty of heart. Unless I miss my mark, expect a superb novel (maybe several?) from this fellow some day, and hopefully sooner rather than later.<br />  Okay, in case you just like to fish and dont give a hoot about really great writing, there are many very good surf-fishing tips here. I underlined a lot of pages and will be using them too. Scott Sadil takes his fishing seriously and has done plenty of it. For those of you, like me, who love fishing, nature, and good writing, come on, get a copy of this book and read it! I swear I dont know Scott Sadil and no one asked me to write this review. But his writing is that good, uncommonly so, and he deserves a far wider audience. ... this book is a steal!ter. He has a writers eye for things, a writers ear that picks up the best tidbits of dialog, he has that novelists sense of where the meat is, and hes got plenty of heart. Unless I miss my mark, expect a superb novel (maybe several?) from this fellow some day, and hopefully sooner rather than later.<BR>   Okay, in case you just like to fish and dont give a hoot about really great writing, there are many very good surf-fishing tips here. I underlined a lot of pages and will be using them too. Scott Sadil takes his fishing seriously and has done plenty of it. For those of you, like me, who love fishing, nature, and good writing, come on, get a copy of this book and read it! I swear I dont know Scott Sadil and no one asked me to write this review. But his writing is that good, uncommonly so, and he deserves a far wider audience. ... this book is a steal!	2003-06-23
US	50587402	RV1C5ELJA1VR0	0875969178	307375604	1,001 Old-Time Garden Tips: Timeless Bits of Wisdom on How to Grow Everything Organically, from the Good Old Days When Everyone Did	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Terrific, Highy Useful Book!!	1001 Old Time Garden Tips<br />  I enjoyed this book very much, and find that it is one of those gardening books that I keep going back to for new advice.<br />  What is interesting about 1001 Old Time Garden Tips is that so much of the advice, the tips, so much is old stuff, good old advice that has often been forgotten. I do landscaping, design work, horticultural consulting, and am a garden writer myself  ( Allergy-Free Gardening, and most recently,  Safe Sex in the Garden ) and I love to have good, solid, informative, well-written gardening books on hand for quick reference.<br />  The longer I garden ( and I've been at it for close to 5 decades now ) the more I appreciate an organic approach. 1001 Old Time Garden Tips: Timeless Bits of Wisdom on How to Grow Everything Organically, from the Good Old Days When Everyone Did, sure has the longest title I ever saw! But it is also a mighty good, easy to follow, highly useful book and if you garden, I'm almost certain you'd enjoy owning it. I know I sure like my copy. The editor for this great collection of useful tips and advice, Roger Yepsen, has done a terrific job.	2003-06-21
US	50587402	R2VAXUNE73WO5Q	0883651440	834218122	How to have a green thumb without an aching back: A new method of mulch gardening	Books	5	36	37	N	N	A Wonderful Gardening Book	I've read this book numerous times, and enjoyed it every single time. I'm a garden writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening) and I always appreciate good garden writing. For my money, no one did it any better than Ruth Stout. Her writing is useful, practical, easy to follow, sensible, fun, often funny, and is a joy to read. She was quite the gardener, and went about gardening in an intelligent and creative way, with her eyes wide open to things that worked, or those that didn't.<br />  Ruth Stout really ought to be known as the &quot;Mother of Mulch,&quot; since she was such a strong advocate for this practice. This book would make a fine addition to anyone's personal gardening library, and would also make an excellent gift for a friend who loves gardening. If you grow vegetables and flowers and have never read this gem, treat yourself to a copy. Remarkably good!	2003-04-28
US	50587402	R18XCF3LZROJYT	0881920002	343787613	Maples of the World	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Best book on Maples	I'm a garden writer myself (author of Allergy-Free Gardening) and I do extensive research on trees. I like to own all the finest, most in-depth books there are on as many genera of trees and shrubs as possible, since I make my living by researching which landscape plants cause allergies. Maples of the World isn't perfect and left me in question on a few things, but really, I have quite a few books on the genus Acer and this one is head and shoulders above all the rest. It has a very deep, terribly well-researched section on all the different cultivars of maples. It is well-written, well thought out, and the writers are bona fide maple experts. If you love maples (and what serious gardener doesn't?) consider buying this book. It isn't [inexpensive], but then it is a very large book, with tons of illustrations in color and many excellent drawings. Treat yourself to this valuable addition to your own personal horticultural library.	2003-04-27
US	50587402	R1GP9LFH8UJ4WN	0140324623	444133547	Anne of Green Gables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Doesn't get any better.	My wife, my sisters, my three daughters, every one of them read this book and fell in love with it. I actually read it myself and enjoyed it, although I think it is more of a classic for girls and young women.<br />  Anne is such a terrific character, so smart, interesting, complex, empathetic, a real peach. The story itself is charming, fun, emotional, heart wrenching, powerful. If you're looking for a gift for a girl from 10 to 15, I don't see how you could buy a more perfect book. The writing sparkles, the pages turn, the story is addictive, it is a wonderful book!	2003-04-27
US	50587402	RY35LYUMZJKSY	0898310776	656499471	The Garden Through the Year	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Last Book from the Best	The Garden Through the Year is a beautiful and wonderful book. It would make an excellent addition to any serious gardener's own personal library. It would also make a terrific present for anyone you know who loves gardening.<br />  I am writing this today, April 21, 03, on the day that I just heard that the author Graham Stuart Thomas just died. Thomas was easily one of the greatest of all the English garden writers. He wrote many marvelous books and in every one of them, his personality and vast experience shines brightly through.<br />  This latest book is no exception to that rule of excellence in garden writing. I am a garden writer myself (Safe Sex in the Garden, Ten Speed Press)and I always appreciate extra good, extra informed garden writing. No one does it better than Graham Stuart Thomas. First, Thomas was an extraordinary gardener, in the finest tradition of English gardeners. In this book he brings in many new and exciting plants and always his writing is full of the best possible gardening advice. This is a very useful book for someone who is interested in how his/her garden might look (or could look!) in different seasons.<br />  In my own back yard I have a large and beautiful yellow rose bush, a David Austin creation, called, 'Graham Thomas.' This rose smells wonderful, grows strongly, and has that old fashioned petal form that is a joy to see. Like the writer it was named for, the rose is a winner. If you have never had the pleasure of reading any Graham Thomas, buy this book and you'll be pleased. If you are already familar with his work, buy it also, and savor the high quality of an excellent book, probably the last one from the garden master, Graham Stuart Thomas.	2003-04-21
US	50587402	RI109FOXP6CF4	0801867304	200217122	My House Is Killing Me!: The Home Guide for Families with Allergies and Asthma	Books	5	42	45	N	N	An Excellent Book!	I read this book with a great deal of interest. Recently my sister-in-law was getting sicker and sicker from living in a toxic mold infected apartment. One doctor diagnosed her as having MS and another suggested psychiatric treatment! She got sicker and sicker, started to really lose it, her speech was becoming garbled, she felt like she was losing her memory. In mid-sentence she would suddenly lose her train of thought. I took some mold spore counts in her bedroom and they were through the roof. Finally after constant pestering on my part, they moved into a hotel. Immediately she started to get better.<br />Today, living in a different apartment, a much cleaner one, she is well again, back to work too.<br />  I do research and write about plants and allergies (Safe Sex in the Garden) and although this fine book by May doesnt touch on outside landscapes, he does do an excellent job of exploring sickness-causing agents within the house. He gets deeply into all parts of a house, from the attic to the basement.<br />For many people affected by allergies, asthma, and a host of related environmentally triggered illnesses, reading this book would be an excellent idea. If I had one knock on the book it would be that the whole subject of what is growing right outside the bedroom window is ignored. But, to be fair, May sticks to what he knows best here. I have had numerous clients who would wake up every morning feeling lousy, often with sore throats. No one seemed to be able to figure out his or her problem. When I was asked to look over their properties for highly allergenic plants Id often find a profuse pollen-producing shrub or tree right outside their bedroom window. Sometimes the offending shrub will be a male Podocarpus or a male Yew, both of which produce considerable pollen that is light, dry, tiny, allergenic, and quite poisonous. The solution in these cases is simple; replace the shrub. I recently photographed some of this pollen through my microscope, on a glass slide, over which I placed a small piece of window screen. The photo is impressive. Close to a thousand grains of this pollen could pass, simultaneously, through each tiny square of the window screen!<br /> But I digress. This book, My House is Killing Me! Is a fine book and answers many important questions about indoor pollutants. Jeffery May has provided a valuable contribution to the field of indoor, household contaminants. I highly recommend it.slide, over which I placed a small piece of window screen. The photo is impressive. Close to a thousand grains of this pollen could pass, simultaneously, through each tiny square of the window screen! <BR> But I digress. This book, My House is Killing Me! Is a fine book and answers many important questions about indoor pollutants. Jeffery May has provided a valuable contribution to the field of indoor, household contaminants. I highly recommend it.	2003-04-11
US	50587402	R35OG7BX7IGL5D	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun read	In Blood Orchid Stuart Woods switches from his Stone Barrington character to a woman police chief, one Holly Barker. It is a positive switch and I found holly much more fun and certainly more interesting than his rather wooden Stone Barrington.<br />  I don't mean to lay out the plot here, since you could easily read any of the other reviews here & get that. If for some reason you have never read any Stuart Woods, well by all means do so. Woods writes the perfect beach novels, good books to take along on a long plane ride. He knows perfectly well how to get his readers to keep turning the pages.<br />  I write myself...and I know how difficult it is to keep the material fresh and moving. But in recent years Woods' books haven't done it for me the way they used to. I sometimes feel as though he's just cranking them out. In this book, Blood Orchid, he is back to a type of character that he once hit gold with---police chiefs. If you have never read his book, Chiefs, go get that one instead. Chiefs had soul. It wasn't just a fun page-turner, it had characters you cared about.	2003-04-10
US	50587402	R1BCP5ZBOVX86B	0312302436	729859696	Witness in Bishop Hill: A Joan Spencer Mystery	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Darn Fine Mystery!	I believe I have read all of Sara Frommer's books and they have never failed to delight me. Witness in Bishop Hill is every bit as good as all the other ones and it gets into some different, and not normally mined material, than might be expected in \\"cozy mysteries.\\"<br />  I am a writer too (author of Safe Sex in the Garden) and a few years ago I was talking to another writer I know, Vicki Leon, author of all the terrific \\"Uppity Women\\" books. Vicki was working on a mystery of her own (I think it will be called Nero's Mother, and ought to be out next spring). At any rate we were talking about books and writing and she told me that she had just read as close to perfect a murder mystery as she had ever encountered. Coming from Vicki, that's pretty high praise. It turned out that she was referring to Murder in C Major by Sara Frommer. Vicki was surprised (and impressed!) that I had already read Murder in C Major myself.<br />  If you enjoy books that are finely crafted, where there are no excess words, no filler materials, nothing but the best stuff.....and if you've never had the pleasure to read one of Sara Frommer's novels, do yourself a favor and buy one. Her books are sold as cozy mysteries and I suppose they are, but I feel that they are much more than that. I have recommended these books to everyone I know who reads and appreciates good mysteries and they all thought they were great. Frommer's characters are real, you care about them, fear for them, empathize with them. By all means, do read Witness in Bishop Hill. You'll see what I mean.	2003-04-10
US	50587402	R31DNUHRZRGW3C	0883362236	22974090	Birthday Boy: Reading Level 3 (Sundown Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I wrote Birthday Boy	I wrote Birthday Boy while I was living on the farm in 1982 and didn't sell it until 1988. It went through several printings and every single copy of both printings was sold; none were ever remaindered.<br />  But new editors at New Readers Press decided they wanted to only publish dumbed down books from already famous authors. Thus Birthday Boy was allowed to go out of print. I and a great many others used this book to teach numerous people how to read. It is the story of a tough orphaned black kid, Jackson Oaks, who never had a birthday. Jackie eventually becomes a boxer, a pro. This book was always especially popular with my students when I taught horticulture in a prison.<br />Birthday Boy is also a story that is real and one that has made many a reader cry. I remember when the tough as nails ex-Middleweight Champion of the world, Carmen Bassilio, read this book in manuscript. Asked by my editor, what he thought of it and if it rang true, he said: &quot;Yeah, sure it does. I liked it. A lot.&quot;<br />Having boxed myself and having great respect for fighters, especially for Bassilio, I have always been quite proud of his response.<br />  If you know a boy or a young man who is having an especially difficult time learning to read---work with him and have him read Birthday Boy (if you can find a copy). I still get feedback from people who read and loved this, and often it was the first book that they had ever actually read, enjoyed, and finished.	2003-03-25
US	50587402	R1IO6CKGX54678	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fabulous New Book!	My sister, Rachel, gave me this book last week, saying that I would love it, and indeed I did! This is the story of two young boys, teenagers, who are sent to the country to be \\"re-educated.\\" Their crime is that they know how to read and that their parents were educated.<br />This all takes place in China during Mao's \\"Cultural revolution,\\" where he attempted to dumb down the entire populace.<br />  I am a writer myself (Safe Sex in the Garden) and I love and appreciate terrific writing--and there is plenty of it here in this slim but strong novel. It is powerful to see how much these boys value the one book of Balzac that they steal--they're allowed no books at all. It is interesting to see too, how reading one book, one good book at any rate, how it can change one's life. The charming and beautiful Little Seamstress, and what happens to her, is an example of this power of a good book.<br />This is also a very honest, funny, often sexy book. The crystal clear writing sparkles at every surprising turn. Do treat yourself to this little marvel if you love books.	2003-03-24
US	50587402	R1BAA7NL59TCNV	0140119795	762966469	The Cape Ann (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Rare Treat, A Teriffic Book!	I read the Cape Ann several years ago and have been meaning ever since to get on Amazon and review it. Faith Sullivan is a darn good writer and with the Cape Ann she has gone right to the top.<br />  The Cape Ann is a coming of age story, following an interesting young girl (and her family) who live down by the railroad tracks. It is an especially satisfying novel, leaving the reader with a good taste so to speak. I'm a writer myself ... and I appreciate fine writing--and this one has it in spades.<br />  I don't mean to run a synopsis of the story here, one can look to other reviews here for that, but what I wanted to do was to encourage people to read this book. I was pleased to see that it is still selling quite well, some 5-6 years after publication---a very good sign for any novel. But this one deserves to do well. It is a wholesome book but not in the least bit uptight, not preachy. Sullivan's characters are interesting, whole, different, and real. Other reviewers have suggested that the Cape Ann is or will be a classic, and I'd have to agree with that. I predict that thirty-forty years from now it will still be read. It deserves to have a larger readership right now than it does. It is that good.	2003-01-19
US	50587402	R2MH4DHC1GSHV3	037575816X	956555480	Meely LaBauve	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Novel I've Read in Ages!	I loved this novel. Got a copy of Meely LaBauve from my brother last week, down in Mazatlan. He said it was \\"really good.\\"<br />  He was right and then some. A satisfying, funny, fun read, its different and compelling.<br />  I think what I like best is that after reading this book I was left with the urge to read all the rest of the books by author,Ken Wells. There are some authors I love, Isaac Singer, Elmore Leonard, and a few others, and I know I'll read another book by Mr. Wells.<br />  When just now I looked up the book here on Amazon.com, I was surprised and disappointed that it was ranked where it was. This book ought to be a run away bestseller, really. It would make a good movie too. Unless you're really uptight (sexually) you'll enjoy this book. Heck, even if you are uptight, read it anyways, you'll still like it.	2003-01-05
US	50587402	RRASSEZK5MCOC	0809226650	538018429	Landscaping Revolution: Garden With Mother Nature, Not Against Her (The Contemporary Gardener)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Darn Good Book!	I was kind of shocked to see that this title is now out of print. This is a real shame as this book deserves to be widely read. One reader here suggested that the book's cover may have put off too many possible readers--too radical. He might be right about that. But the author here is trying to kick off a sort of gentle green revolution and the cover certainly didn't offend me!<br />  I liked Landscape Revolution, very much and I would like to see the book used as a text for landscape classes. I do some landscape design myself and have taught it and this book would be a good one for students. All too often only one side of the coin is taught in our universities when it comes to horticulture and especially to landscape. The conventional way of thinking, with its heavy reliance on pesticides and chemicals and cloned cultivars, this is always taught. But the flip side, the holistic, organic approach, as found here, this is too often excluded. Landscape Revolution is well written, makes plenty of sense, and is a pleasure to read too. I heard Andy talk once in Columbus, Ohio, and he was a big hit, very dynamic speaker. He writes the same way. I write myself (Safe Sex in the Garden, Ten Speed Press) and I appreciate a job well done. I am not positive this book is for everyone, but for someone who likes to garden, who appreciates a fine landscape, and for someone who isn't too hung up on better living through chemistry, I'd certainly recommend this excellent book.	2002-12-17
US	50587402	RZXA9HNV6GCO9	071121218X	865376185	The Garden Planner	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Garden Design Made Clear and Easy	The Garden Planner is an excellent book and it is one that serves a definite purpose, i.e., how to get started with garden/landscape design.<br />  While there is much written on landscape design, there is not all that much on how to get started actually doing it. I am a member of the APLD, Association of Professional Landscape Designers. I taught landscape-gardening for a dozen years and I write garden books myself (Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden, Ten Speed Press) and I have a large collection of garden landscape books. Many of these books were presents and although interesting, many are not all that useful. But this one is highly useful.<br />  The author, Robin Williams (not the actor!) is an experienced designer and is skilled at explaining how to do it, how to get started, how to end up with something to be proud of. In garden/landscape design there are certain principles for success and they are all well covered here. I would recommend this book to anyone wanting to get started doing landscape design. I would also recommend it to people who are already designers as I think even they would be pleasantly surprised.	2002-11-22
US	50587402	R1BECFTVHSXQU6	0679434836	172537646	Deep In The Green: An Exploration of Country Pleasures	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Garden Writing	People who get the New York Times and read the garden section are probably totally familiar with Anne Raver's writing, but those in other parts of the country may not be. For many years she was the garden editor of the NY Times and although I don't think she holds this position any longer, I still do find her articles now and then in the Times.<br />  I am a garden writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden) and I read the work of as many different garden writers as I can. I especially try to read as much material as possible from writers who write for newspapers, since so often they are tuned in to the most current tastes in horticulture. Then too, as a writer I always appreciate extra quality work when I read it, work such as that of Ann Raver (who by the way, I don't know and have never met.)<br />  Deep in the Green: An Exploration of Country Pleasures is a little book but it's packed with useful gardening tidbits and the writing is superb. Like some other reviewers of this book, I too would like to see another book from her, perhaps a sequel to Deep in the Green. I am always on the lookout for neat little books on gardening to give as presents to my friends who garden, and this one is always a hit. A collection of articles published first in the Times, each chapter here is lively, charming, often darn funny, and in the tradition of great garden writers (especially some of the great English writers), the material is based on true life garden adventures, and it is always close and personal. If you've never read any of Ann Raver's work, I suggest you give it a try. Almost anyone who loves to garden and read will enjoy this book.	2002-11-20
US	50587402	RX2OWPSBPLRCF	0395683297	203612813	Silent Spring	Books	5	10	15	N	N	One of the most important books of our time.	I recently re-read Silent Spring. I had read it years ago, around 1970.<br />  I have an MS degree in Agriculture and in Ag we were swamped with input from the chemical companies. In Ag school the chem. companies sponser all the clubs, the crop science clubs, the dairy science clubs, the horticulture clubs, and so on. They buy the ribs for the barbeques, often the beer too. They wrap the new Ag students up tight.<br />  But I was always interested in organic farming, organic gardening, sustainable agriculture, and I, unlike so many in Ag., was always interested in what Rachel Carson had to say.<br />  What I found so interesting on re-reading this book many years later was that it was still so readable, so to the point, and most of all, that in all this time, so many of the things she warned us about back in the 60's, had not changed, were still here.<br />  I am a horticulture writer (author of Allergy-Free Gardening, Safe Sex in the Garden,(Ten Speed Press) & other books) and I keep a large supply of important reference books on hand. Silent Spring is one of them.<br />To anyone who happens to read this review of mine, I want to say that if you haven't already read Silent Spring, read it. It will open your eyes. If you too, like me, read it a long time ago, try it again. You'll be surprised.<br />  Rachel Carson was way ahead of her time. She was a true naturalist and a very excellent biologist, and actually all of her books are well worth reading and owning. I am reviewing this book now, simply because I want to encourage more people to read or re-read it. It is a classic, and what she found about man- made toxins in our environment, is as true today (unfortunately) as ever. A great book.	2002-11-04
US	50587402	R2R61T4570OV6E	0670032379	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great First Novel!	I read this book last week and certainly was impressed. It probably isn't the sort of book I'd normally pick up and read, but I was stuck somewhere for a few days and I hadn't thought to bring a book along to read. My wife had two novels with her, and The Secret Life of Bees was one of them. But I have to say, I was terribly impressed.<br />  The story follows a young girl, 15 I think, who gets in all manner of trouble and is eventually saved by a totally unusual bunch of older black ladies, in particular by a very unique beekeeper.<br />  Although not a mystery per se, this one does read like a mystery, you never quite know everything until the very end. This keeps the level of suspense up high, making the book a bonafide page-turner.<br />  I write my own self ... and I appreciate just how difficult it is to write well, clearly, brightly, missing nothing the way Sue Monk Kidd does here.<br />  She is especially good with characters, each of whom is completely different, interesting, and real. I also feel that this book is unusual because it is so open minded. It could be a young adult novel but actually it could just as well simply be a novel for adults. I used to be a high school teacher and this book would be a hit with many kids, boys or girls, and not only would they enjoy it as simply a good read, but it would teach them a thing or two in the process.<br />  The story takes place in the deep South in the mid 1960's, at the start of the civil rights movement. I myself was a runaway teenager working in carnivals there in the South in those same days, and the author has captured that mood, time and place perfectly. Tolerance may be the over-lying theme of this fun, interesting, at times quite sad but still uplifting new novel, and it is all expertly mined in this terrific book. Highly recommended.	2002-11-02
US	50587402	R2JG1FP48N72B0	0671737198	883534889	500 Terrific Ideas for Organizing Everything	Books	5	3	4	N	N	If You're like Most of us, You Need this Book!	I have always had a problem with being organized, with staying organized. I found this little book by the literary agent Sheree Bykofsky to be simply terrific! It is full of excellent advice and is easy to follow, easy to use. Ms. Bykofsky is a high powered book agent who is always doing dozens of things at the same time, making deals, courting publishers, giving lectures. If you doubt how incredibly effective and organized she is herself, go and look up her website--take a look at the number of books she has sold, the authors she has helped put on the map. We can all use help with getting organized. I found this book to be a big help, and being better organized has made me more money and most importantly, has added real value to my life. Check it out. You'll love it!	2002-10-08
US	50587402	R23F2MH2BCIHVU	0789000458	133956729	Horticultural Therapy and the Older Adult Population	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A Totally Useful Book	I wish that Horticultural Therapy and the Older Adult Population, which was edited by Suzanne Wells, I wish this book would sell better.<br />  There is a real need for the material in this book to be widely dispersed, read and used. For people working with older folks the information here centers on the practical. It is well-researched, well thought out, nicely edited.<br />  I am a garden writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening) and one of the things I've written was a book produced by the National Council of State Garden Clubs, called &quot;Horticultural Therapy/ A Guide for all Seasons.&quot; That book, edited by Martha DeHart and Joan Brown, covers much therapy ground. However, for using hort. therapy with the elderly, this book here is the best reference.<br />I have seen some amazingly good things happen from hort. therapy. Working with plants and gardens makes life better, makes people feel more human, more alive. Recently I heard a talk given by the man in charge of the new hospital addition at Loma Linda University Medical Center. They are planning to spend millions to set up far greater access for their patients and the gardens. They have the data to show that it not only saves and enriches lives, it also saves money---lower medical costs.<br />I recommend Horticultural Therapy and the Older Adult Population<br />highly. A very good book.	2002-08-07
US	50587402	R18IZL4SHKJWZO	0299159043	991798663	Plants of Life, Plants of Death	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Check this Excellent Book out!	Plants of Life/ Plants of Death by Frederick Simoons is a terrific book. I am a garden writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening) and I appreciate well-written horticultural material.<br />This book is full of unusual and interesting facts and stories that you probably won't find any where else (pregnant women are in special danger from eclipses, garlic warms the body, makes fighter more pugnacious, and increases semen). Garden writers would be wise to own a copy of this for reference. Folks who enjoy gardening, botany, nature and history, will appreciate<br />this treasure. There are quite a few useful and interesting illustrations in the book but probably what most impresses is the thoroughness of the work. It is obvious that many years of study and research went into this labor of love and the results are evident. I highly recommend Plants of Life/ Plants of Death.	2002-08-07
US	50587402	RBQDYIUGZJEC5	0226044408	632641600	The Rose's Kiss	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An Interesting, Fun, Different, and Totally Worthwhile Read!	I'm a garden writer myself (Allergy-Free Gardening, Ten Speed Press) and I just finished reading The Rose's Kiss by Peter Bernhardt. I really enjoyed this book and was amazed at how much I learned too. I read quite a bit of botanical-based material and all too often find the writing very dry, factual but not much fun to read. This book though, is just the opposite--it is fun and totally interesting and you'll learn a great deal from it...be you a botanist, gardener, or just someone who likes to learn more about science.<br />  Peter Bernhardt (who I don't know personally and have never met) has a deep understanding and obvious love of botany and it shows. He is also a very fine writer and he explains things so well, so clearly, that they stick in your mind. I expect that he is also a terrific teacher since he is so expert at explaining complicated material in a simple, easy to understand way. He also tosses in hundreds of fascinating little tidbits of information as he explains flowers, for this is a book about flowers, how they're formed, how they work, how they're pollinated---great section on bats and possums and other small animals that pollinate flowers.<br />  I like too the way he explains exactly what each scientific name means and that he always gives the reader the origins of the word.<br />  I underlined heavily my copy of The Rose's Kiss and it is a book that I'll keep going back over, reading again all the many sections I've underlined. This book was a present to me from my Dad, and I would highly recommend it as a present for anyone you care about who has more than a passing interest in botany, horticulture, life sciences, and (or) Nature and gardening. A terrific book!	2002-06-17
US	50587402	RO14CTKHWE639	0471398845	771106801	Courtyards: Aesthetic, Social, and Thermal Delight	Books	5	46	47	N	N	THE Book on Courtyards.	Courtyards is a terrific book, the result of 20+ years of loving research. Oregon Professor John Reynolds is crazy for courtyards and it certainly shows.<br />A courtyard is a space surrounded by a building, often surrounded by a house. There are all manner of courtyards, large, small, huge, quiet, loud. Some are open and others are terribly private. But all good courtyards have things in common. In the landscapes most of us in the US are used to, we have a house and the gardens are on the outside and we see them before we see the house. In a sense these landscapes serve mostly as dressing to enhance the outward look of the house. But a fine courtyard garden is different. It is smack in the middle of the house and the house surrounds it. It is not wide open to the world, but instead is a place to get away from it all, a place to be outside, but not to be out in the open. The best courtyards are open to the sky, have water, vines, a multitude of interesting flowers, trees, potted plants. A large number of the very finest courtyard plants are discussed in detail in this excellent book. I was struck by how interesting the numerous photos and designs were. Profusely illustrated, each one serves a definitive purpose. I was struck too, by how many different things go into the making of a well thought out courtyard. What is involved so that it will be warm in the winter and cool in the hot summer. What is involved so that it becomes a place where people want to be. I took many notes as I read this large book and some day I plan to build a house of my own design, and in the middle of it, I'm going to have a courtyard. And in this courtyard, I'll have all the things needed, the ingredients so carefully detailed here, that make the right courtyard a magical place. I'd recommend this book for anyone who ever plans to build their own home, for all landscape designers, for all architects, for anyone with a serious interest in horticulture and design. An excellent book.	2002-05-09
US	50587402	R3II7PY7Q9X1ZF	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Best Writer on the Mideast	I discovered Bernard Lewis a few years ago, after seeing him interviewed on Public TV. I try and read everything he writes and this latest book, not one for people looking for simple, easy answers, is to my mind just terrific.<br />  What I like most about Lewis is that he brings so much with him to the table, his background is so deep, his study so solid. He sees things that many other writers miss and his opinions are clear and unbiased, if that is possible on the Middle East.<br />  I am a writer myself, a horticulturist, and I was looking at my own book [book title] on Amazon just a few moments ago, and saw that people who bought my book had also bought this one by Bernard Lewis and also Steven Hawkings' latest book. I was flat out delighted to see that, just to even be at all close to two writers of that great stature. I feel honored to be in the same sentence with either of them. And for anyone who has never read any Bernard Lewis, or who has never heard him lecture or seen him being interviewed, you're in for a treat. He is dignified, remarkably well-read, sees all sides of difficult issues, is an obvious gentleman and scholar both, and is a man of rare wisdom. He's also a darn good writer.	2002-04-29
US	50587402	R2VMT9SG8MQYHW	1888608978	431039289	Nevada Gardener's Guide	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Excellent  Book for Nevada, Arizona Gardeners	I just finished reading this book and found it to be an excellent source for desert gardeners. The authors are long time desert gardeners themselves and it shows. The book is easy to use, easy to understand, well-written, and quite comprehensive. A great deal of plant material is covered here.<br />  The sections on growing lawns under hot, desert type conditions are especially good, and are obviously the result of many years of hands-on, practical experience.<br />  Much gardening reading material is not of much use for people living in areas like Las Vegas, Nevada, but this material certainly is.<br />  If I had but one gripe about the book, it is that it does not cover allergies caused by landscape plants very well. But then, not many gardening books do.	2002-03-16
US	50587402	R38SCL125UTKXU	0944383548	153606532	Someone Stole My Outhouse: And Other Tales of Home Improvement	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Rare Treat/ A Fine Bit of Fun, Funky, Funny, Philosophy	I read \\"Someone Stole My Outhouse,\\" by Cindy Bellinger, last week on a long flight from Los Angeles to Atlanta. Like any good book, this one made many long miles just disappear. At 37,000 feet in the air I looked down and realized I might well be right over the backwoods cabin home of the notorious Cindy Bellinger and her outhouse stealing neighbors.<br />  On the surface this is a book about home improvement, and indeed there is much interesting material here on building footers and tearing down walls and vanishing outhouses. But actually, as I quickly discovered, Cindy Bellinger's writing is certainly always more than just how to fix or build something. I first read a piece of hers in the Santa Fe New Mexican newspaper a few years ago, an article about the fire raging across New Mexico, and the impact it was having on peoples' lives. I was immediately impressed and showed the article to friends who were also impressed.<br />  Very interesting here are the stories of the down-home sort of folks who wander in and out of these tales of home improvement. I also love the way Ms Bellinger uses construction as her focal point to discuss what it is like for a single woman doing things her own way. She has an uncanny interest and appreciation of good tools \\"for a woman.\\" I admit, I was surprised by much in this book, surprised by her depth of know-how at building, at her appreciation of doing things herself, of the way she never let her sex be an excuse for not doing something she wanted to do.<br />  The building and repairing going on in this book are always central but she admits that,  \\"I'm not a finish carpenter, probably because nothing ever gets finished.\\"  But really, like any good artist, Bellinger understands well that it is the doing that counts, that the actual process of building may be more important than the end product. I recommend this book to anyone interested in: good writing, in something unusual and different, to anyone who appreciates a salty, no BS kind of a lady, to anyone who values a woman who has the guts to live life on her own terms, and who knows how to write about it. Someone Stole My Outhouse would make an excellent present for any liberated lady, or for any fellow not easily intimidated by strong women. A darn good read. Check it out.a lady, to anyone who values a woman who has the guts to live life on her own terms, and who knows how to write about it. Someone Stole My Outhouse would make an excellent present for any liberated lady, or for any fellow not easily intimidated by strong women. A darn good read. Check it out.	2002-03-01
US	50587402	R11OHJDIG4LPAJ	0553378597	89834550	The Orchard: A Memoir	Books	5	38	38	N	Y	If I could give this one Six Stars, I would!	The Orchard, a Memoir, is a great book. Last week I was on a long flight back to San Luis Obispo from Omaha and I had this book with me, a gift from my mom. I started reading it and totally forgot about the flight, never noticed the movie they were playing. A good number of times tears were just pouring down my face and I'd wipe them away, wondering if the people on the plane around me thought I was a bit crazy.<br />  But I tell you, I'm crazy about this book! Honestly, I read a good deal and this is easily one of the most interesting, deepest, most powerful books I have read in years. Although true, a memoir, it reads just like a fine novel. I was so totally absorbed reading this rare gem of a find, that it was difficult to realize that the author had died some 20 years ago--she, Adele Crockett Robertson, seems so real, so full of life, so gutsy, so immediate.<br />  Briefly, this is the story of a young girl, a smart, educated girl with a good head on her shoulders, who loses her job in the great Depression, and goes back to the family farm to try and save it from the bank. The many people in the book all come to life perfectly and there are surprises aplenty. I am a gardenwriter (author of Allergy-Free Gardening)and have farmed myself, and I appreciate what Adele went through. I would also add that this is no doubt the best picture of life during the Depression I've ever come across.<br />  I plan to review this book every place that I can, because to my mind, this one is so good, so readable, so well worth reading, so enjoyable, so satisfying, that it completely deserves to be a best seller. Do yourself a favor and read this marvelous book!	2002-02-06
US	50587402	R2HX31TLZJYJNU	157324127X	570418562	Uppity Women of the Renaissance	Books	5	3	5	N	N	I loved this Book!	Uppity Women of the Renaissance by Vicki Leon is a pleasure to read and it's a book you'll keep going back to. Leon knows how to make history fun and she has a knack for finding the most interesting characters from the past, and then bringing them back to life.<br />  If you've never read one of Vicki Leon's books, you're in for a real treat. Give one as a present to a reluctant reader, give one to yourself!<br />  Ms Leon is not just an excellent writer, but is also a fine historian. She has made it her mission to discover long lost women with spunk and brains, and to bring them to the public's eye. I'm a big fan of her's and have every book she's written. I especially like to give them as gifts since they are that rare combination of spirit, fun, frolic, sassiness, seriousness, and real history. Uppity Women of the Renaissance is one of Ms. Leon's very best. Highly recommended.	2002-02-06
US	50587402	R3BV5BM3P2T9CJ	0881924148	558749483	The Well-Tended Perennial Garden: Planting & Pruning Techniques	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Belongs on Your Garden Bookshelf!	The Well-Tended Perennial Garden is an exceptionally good book. It is packed with useful information, full of great advice and comes with lots of top quality photos. Perennials are fun to grow and add a great deal to any garden, but many of them have different and varied cultural requirements. In The Well-Tended Perennial Garden all these particulars are thoroughly covered.<br />  The writing of Tracy Disabato-Aust is fun and lively and adds greatly to this fine book. It certainly deserves a spot on the bookshelf of any gardener. This is one you'll use over and over.	2002-01-17
US	50587402	RVNCUDHF4VZIY	0764551302	881982240	Gardening For Dummies (For Dummies (Computer/Tech))	Books	3	35	200	N	N	Garden Book for Idiots	Actually this is a pretty decent book and there are many good gardening tips in it. I guess the main reason I'm not very fond of it ( got it as a gift and promptly gave it away myself ) is that I find the whole idea of it rather tasteless.<br />  Perhaps for folks whose idea of good reading is comic books, this would be the perfect garden book. It is indeed set up for those who are easily distracted, lots of bullet points and little boxes and so on.<br />  I question whether or not this book was even needed. There are many fine how-to garden books already out there. The old Taylor's Encyclopedia of Gardening, for example, can usually be found used for about the same price or less. Taylors, although old, is a real gardening book.<br />  Somehow I equate gardening with intelligence, with class, with good taste. I enjoy having shelves of books on all the different aspects of horticulture and hardly want one titled Gardening for Dummies. I have a book, Auto Repair for Dummies (also a present) and somehow I don't mind being an automotive dummy. But a garden variety dummy is a bit much.<br />  Nonetheless, if you simply don't have the patience for most books, and you don't know beans about gardening, go for it. Despite the title, the author, Michael MacCaskey, knows plenty about gardening.	2001-12-24
US	50587402	R18OHWOD6E458R	1570611203	972895024	Naturalistic Gardening: Reflecting the Planting Patterns of Nature	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Very Interesting Book	Naturalistic Gardening, by Ann Lovejoy, is an excellent book, especially for anyone with woodlands on their property. But the book is useful too for those who just want to fashion gardens that retain that wild feel, that natural look.<br />  The photographs from Allan Mandell are exceptional and capture well the spirit of this fine book. For those gardeners who have never read any of the many gardening books by Ann Lovejoy, this will be a treat. Ms. Lovejoy writes in a way that is always clear and easily understandable, and her writing has a voice that is fun, energetic, full of life.<br />  All of the books by Ms. Lovejoy are quite good, as is Naturalistic Gardening. No mention is made of my own specialty, allergy-free gardening, and some of that component would be welcome here, but still, this is a book to provoke some real thinking--a book to inspire different, less rigid, less formal gardening. I enjoyed it very much.	2001-12-24
US	50587402	R1Y90KTGXX5NM2	0025054708	131412215	Hortus Third: A Concise Dictionary of Plants Cultivated in the United States and Canada	Books	4	40	41	N	N	One of the most important reference books I own.	Hortus Third isn't perfect. I wish it had more drawings and I wish it included more non-cultivated plants.<br />  That said, Hortus Third is probably the most important garden/botany reference book I own. I am a professional garden writer &amp; speaker (author of Allergy-Free Gardening) and Hortus is one book I turn to almost daily. I now and then do find some things in it that I don't completely agree with, but by and large it is very accurate.<br />  Hortus is an expensive book, and not really one for the casual gardener, but for those whose interest is deep, it is worth the money--and then some.<br />  My own copy of Hortus Third is pretty well dog-eared by now from so much use. I have given it only 4 stars as a rating, and that is because I, like many, wish it included more natives, but still, there is no other book quite like it and it is a very useful, important reference that I simply could not do without.	2001-11-26
US	50587402	RNPVS2CO7U62N	1890132721	733459441	Breed Your Own Vegetable Varieties: The Gardener's and Farmer's Guide to Plant Breeding and Seed Saving, 2nd Edition	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	Double Your Gardening Pleasure with this Fine Book!	I bought this book a few months ago and have been enjoying it very much. I am a hardcore gardener and for many years now I have been breeding my own roses and have also done some hybridizing with begonias. I had never tried crossing vegetables though.<br />  After reading Carol Deepe's neat book though, I've decided that starting next spring I will be making some hybrid crosses with vegetables, for sure.<br />  Most people who garden do not really understand the whole process of making crosses, of creating new hybrids. This book explains it very clearly and gardeners will find out that it isn't really difficult at all. Quite simple actually, and with some often remarkable rewards.<br />  As explained well in this text, vegetables today are mostly bred just for the market, for things like better shipability. Breeding for taste and other such, is pretty well now left up to the amateur breeders. My point here is that if you want to grow the best vegeatbles, you almost need to start crossing your own.<br />  One of the biggest pleasures of creating your own vegetable crosses is that they are YOUR OWN. You can then grow things that no one else is growing, planting seeds that are not for sale anywhere. This can add a huge amount of pleasure to gardening. It just makes it all much more fun.<br />  This book is useful, interesting, well written and easy to understand. It would make a great present for anyone who loves to garden and by all means get one for yourself, too. It will easily pay for itself the very first season you own it. A dandy book!	2001-11-26
US	50587402	R34VB3P5EDWV4T	0674097459	719670909	Linnaeus: Nature and Nation	Books	4	5	8	N	Y	Interesting Reading.	Linnaeus : Nature and Nation<br />by Lisbet Koerner<br />Reviewed by Thomas Leo Ogren, author of Allergy-Free Gardening, Ten Speed Press.<br />  Honestly I have mixed feelings about this book. One, I love it and really did enjoy reading it. I learned quite a bit from it too.<br />  But I do wish it had been written in a more reader-friendly manner. It is a good bit too scholarly for my tastes, a trifle too text-bookishly written.<br />  One of the important things about Linnaeus himself is that he always tried to reach the common man, tried to make his work popular and easily understood. I feel this book could have emulated some of that flavor.<br />  But I don't mean to be too critical by any means because I did like this book very much. There is a real wealth of research here, many things about Linnaeus here that I'd never read before. Karl Linnaeus was THE botanist--of his time, and of our own time as well. His system of binomial nomenclature, Genus species, was pretty much right on the money. He was the first to realize that plants' sexual characteristics were what largely either grouped them together or set them apart. His system is often criticized today, but to me it still makes great sense.<br />  Linnaeus : Nature and Nation, is not for everyone, but serious gardeners will enjoy it, as will historians, especially those with an interest in botany, horticulture, science. Well worth reading.	2001-11-26
US	50587402	R1NJ3BRBT54F42	0801829402	666550074	Airborne and Allergenic Pollen of North America (Johns Hopkins Series in Contemporary Medicine and Public Health)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply, the very best book on plants and pollen.	I am the author of Allergy-Free Gardening, published by Ten Speed Press, and I have read a huge number of books about pollen grains and the plants that produce them.  There are many fine books on the subject but by far, Airborne and Allergenic Pollen of North America, by Dr. Walter H. Lewis, is hands down the best.<br />  The writing here is complex but easily understandable. The material and research in the book are deep and break considerable new ground. Today, as allergies continue to skyrocket, as deaths from asthma grow larger every year, I find it hard to understand how this book has gone out of print!<br />  This may not be a book for the average lay person but for any serious student of allergies, horticulture, and pollen, this is a must read. I'd think that every allergist would want to own a copy of Airborne and Allergenic Pollen of North America.<br />  The lead author, Dr. Lewis, is considered by his peers in biology to be THE medical botanist. He is after all, also the author of the seminal work, Medical Botany, from Wiley&amp; Sons publishers. But unlike many who write about allergy, Lewis also knows a great deal about plants. He is, among many other things, the Senior Botanist at the Missouri Botanical Gardens.<br />  I can not recommend this wonderful book highly enough.	2001-09-07
US	50587402	R1ACQXHGDF5W6P	0971361800	540725307	Open Your Heart: A Mid-Life Fable	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Baby Boomers take notice! This is a good one.	Open Your Heart, A Mid-Life Fable, by Dr. Ruth Cherry, touched me deeply.  This fine book is an exploration of odd and often perplexing experiences we all face as we come to grips with our middle years. The experiences of the &quot;mid-life crazies&quot; are depicted here metaphorically, with sensitivity, gentleness, and humor.<br />  After reading this book I believe that I understand myself better, and feel that I can and should trust my own feelings more. A very useful and constructive &quot;self-help&quot; book. I give the highest recommendation for this book, especially to anyone over 35 who perhaps wonders, (as don't we all eventually?), What's it really all about?	2001-09-07
US	50587402	R349RU0KX98FJF	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	211	224	N	N	Some of the Most interesting Botany You'll Ever Read.	Two different people sent me copies last week of Michael Pollan's book, The Botany of Desire. I'm a writer (Allergy-Free Gardening, from Ten Speed Press) myself and a lifetime horticulturist and I guess they figured I'd appreciate this book.  They were right too.  I found this book extremely hard to put down. Pollan is a writer first and a botanist second but he is remarkably observant about horticultural matters. He is also unusually talented at explaining complex ideas and he does so in a way that is fresh, fun, often funny, and suprisingly profound.  Pollan's section on Johnny Appleseed alone is worth the price of the book. Here Johnny is a multi-dimensional character, one not just eccentric, but a shrewd fellow with great vision and considerable human frailty.  The Botany of Desire is chiefly the history of the tulip, apples in America, cannabis, and the potato. This may not sound like the recipe for a really satisfying read, but in Michael Pollan's more than able hands, it certainly is.  If you enjoy gardening, history, or just plain old very decent writing, I expect you too would appreciate this excellent book.	2001-06-14
US	50587402	R30M0P0QRVIICM	1555913350	399147202	Sex in Your Garden	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Entertaining, Informative, Very Readable, and Quite Useful	I just got a copy of this book, Sex in Your Garden, and I have been pleasantly surprised. There is a huge amount of interesting factual material in it. It is a bit bold for some folks, no doubt, but it is all actually in good taste. I think that this book could be excellent as a way to introduce younger students to the whole idea of sex and plants, or plant sexuality if you will. This subject is one that needs to be understood much better than it is now. Unlike most botany texts on the subject, this one is in plain English and it is fun to read. Hard core plant scientists may object to its tone and some of the wording, but I don't think it was intended for them in the first place. I expect that this book would be a good tool for getting students from grade 7-12 interested in some basic botany. Actually though, it would be informative for all of us &quot;grown ups&quot; too. I'm the author of Allergy-Free Gardening, from Ten Speed Press, and am especially interested in plant sexuality as it relates to allergies. I'd have to say this book is much better than I expected and I that learned quite a bit from it myself. The drawings and photos are first rate too. All in all, Sex in Your Garden is a very useful, informative, fun book. I highly recommend it! Thomas Leo Ogren	2001-06-07
US	50587402	R25HHUVQPDNDLC	0967793408	263730213	Common Dragonflies of California : A Beginner's Pocket Guide	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Wonderful Pocket Guide!	Common Dragonflies of California is an uncommon book. Full of sound advice and chock full of excellent color photos, this book will be of great interest to any California nature lover.  I am the kind of person who loves to know the name of every tree, shrub, flower, reptile, bird and fish that I see. Now that I have this little jewel, I'm going to learn how to identify the dragonflies too.  The more we learn about nature, the more enjoyment we get from it. I highly recommend this fine book! I expect it would make a great present too, for the right person. Tom Ogren, author of Allergy-Free Gardening	2001-05-08
US	50587402	R17OOGFGRJSSL3	1840002336	202768543	Allergy-Free Living: How to Create a Healthy, Allergy-Free Home and Lifestyle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An Excellent Book!	This really is an excellent new book. People with allergies and or asthma need to find different ways to combat their allergies, besides just using more and more drugs.  This book is full of many fine tips for reducing allergies in your house, where you work and play.  I am an allergy researcher myself, and I do not know the authors of this book but I applaud them for this fine effort. I recommend it for anyone who has allergies and also for the family of those with allergies. This book will be worth every penny of its cost, in savings and improved lifestyle through less allergy. Do check it out. Thomas Leo Ogren, author of Allergy-Free Gardening	2001-05-06
US	50587402	RWPROWD86NUTH	0969806108	183231080	Horticulture As Therapy: A Practical Guide to Using Horticulture As a Therapeutic Tool	Books	5	36	38	N	Y	A Very Good, Useful, Overlooked Book	Mitchell Hewson's excellent book, Horticulture as Therapy, is one that ought to have broader sales. I recently recieved a copy and have been reading it and am impressed at the huge amount of  practical information in it.  It is an attractive, large book, well-arranged, and easy to use. A book like this would be especially useful for teachers, staff in hospitals, nursing homes, for all people working with children, for folks working with physically or mentally challenged people, or with the elderly, for staff in prisons, and in many other areas.<br />  The author has a real depth of understanding of how to use horticulture as a therapy and it shows. There are few means as effective as horticulture in relieving stress, in getting difficult students interesting in nature, in putting people back in touch with themselves and the world.  There is a very useful section here too on resources. There are also many other good sections of &quot;how to&quot; things and the book would be very handy for anyone starting a horticulture program. There is also a considerable amount of practical cultural garden information here, and actually I think many ordinary gardeners would find the book useful and interesting.<br />I really can't recommend this book too highly.  I am the author of Allergy-Free Gardening and I will certainly be recommending this book to many in the years to come. Thomas Leo Ogren	2001-04-26
US	50587402	RVJCUIJQ4KN13	0252022130	798388679	Green Nature/Human Nature: THE MEANING OF PLANTS IN OUR LIVES (Environment Human Condition)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Gardener's Must Read!	Charles Lewis is the undisputed champion of people-plant relationships. A learned man, well-versed in all aspects of horticulture, Lewis is also an excellent writer. Lewis asks: \\"In what ways do plants enter our mental and spiritual lives?\\"  What exactly is the importance of cultivating our own \\"inner garden.&quot;  Gardens grow persons, not just  plants.  Lewis found that to pursue his interest in the human side of horticulture he had to look to other disciplines - psychology, sociology, geography, and medicine. Charles Lewis's Green Nature/ Human Nature is a must read for anyone who loves to garden. &quot;Horticultural Therapy for the Soul&quot; perhaps describes this book, but actually it is more. Check out this rare gem--you'll love it. Tom Ogren, author of Allergy-Free Gardening, Ten Speed Press.	2000-09-24
US	50587402	RZBH2Z5LATWVC	0812931033	147017678	The Urban Tree Book: An Uncommon Field Guide for City and Town	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Wonderful, Beautiful Book.	The Urban Tree Book is quite a find- crisp, clear, especially  well-written, always interesting, totally useful. Arthur Plotnik has made a  valuable contibution to the literature of the urban forest with this book.  The illustrations of his wife, Mary Phelan are terrific and add much to  this rare find of a book. This one would make a wondeful gift, for anyone  who appreciates trees and fine writing. But, be sure to read it yourself  first! Too good to miss!	2000-08-11
US	50587402	RYTHFHR5W6NWI	0671010026	524935891	In My Father's Name	Books	5	10	11	N	N	All You Want to Know about Fresno, and Then Some!	Mark Arax's book is a one of a kind. It is a history of a family, a history of the Armenian people, the history of Fresno. The one thing that stands out the most about this book is the stark honesty of it all, so much  so that at times the effect on the reader is unsettling.  As I read this  book I found myself strongly disliking the author and then liking him very  much. Filled with many unusual, colorful, complex and interesting  characters, this true story at times reads like a novel. The story of how a  young man, a newspaper reporter, goes out to find his own father's killers,  is the stuff of movies and I am surprised that this book has not been made  into a movie. But upon reflection, perhaps this book is too real for  Hollywood. I am sure it is too real for some of the local people in Fresno  who may feel he has slighted the town. But above all, after reading this  book, I was left impressed with the author's toughness, his doggedness, his  camera-like mind, his no holds bared approach and his take no prisoners  attitude. I would suggest that this book would make very fine reading for  anyone interested in California history, and also for any interested in the  dark side of small town politics. A well-done, very unusual book.	2000-07-31
US	50587402	R27H64NMBW7HYK	0316732214	568838264	Allergic to the Twentieth Century: The Explosion in Environmental Allergies--From Sick Buildings to Multiple Chemical Sensitivity	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Very interesting, highly readable!	I'm an allergy researcher and when I came on this excellent book, I sat down and read it cover to cover. Couldn't put it down. The writer is very good, the information new and interesting, and thought provoking. \\"Sick Building Syndrome\\" is quite real and affects many people on a daily basis. I am sad to see that this fine piece of work is out of print. If you can find a copy, I highly recommend it. Tom Ogren, author of Allergy-Free Gardening :::: from Ten Speed Press	2000-07-23
US	50587402	R3LFXD9KFIB97T	0520043642	253193342	Pacific Coast Trees, Second edition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Darn Good Book....very Useful.	I am a writer and a professional horticulturist and I need good books. This is one of them. The drawings are clear, the writing is good, the information is helpful. I keep going back to this book over and over and  always find something to use. For anyone exploring the Pacific Coast who  appreciates trees, check this one out. Thomas L Ogren, author of  Allergy-Free Gardening	2000-03-25
US	50587402	R2B2SPR3LALUOB	091197704X	65255185	Allergy Plants: That Cause Sneezing and Wheezing	Books	5	4	6	N	N	I recommend this one!	One of the better books on the subject. Well illustrated and written. Well worth the price.	2000-01-05
US	50587402	RMRYV01H07LGI	0911977120	65255185	Allergy Plants: That Cause Sneezing and Wheezing	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Very good plant-allergy book	Mary Jelks MD has made an important contibution to the literature of allergy with this book. It is especially good for people in the Florida area. I am the author of Allergy-Free Gardening.	2000-01-05
