US	50594384	R38BPU87ITAK4Y	0312313977	23813238	The White City	Books	3	15	19	N	N	A Dissenting Voice	This is a strange fever dream of a novel.  It's the author's first book, set in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition.  <br />A serial killer nicknamed Clemantis, the Husker, is on the loose in Chicago, torturing and murdering small boys and leaving their brutalized bodies in the fair grounds.  When the young son of a prominent citizen goes missing, the police are forced to take notice.  <br />Dr Elizabeth Hadley, a forensic psychologist, is called in to assist in finding the killer.  She is one of the first people working in this field.<br />Chicago is the main character in this book and Michod does a wonderful job of creating a Chicago that is brutal, atmospheric, and frightening.  Hieronymus Bosch would have felt right at home in this Chicago.<br />Winds howl, blood runs in the street, and desperate men threaten strikes against the meat packing industry, whose injustices are vividly portrayed. Meanwhile, the monied elite are blind to the suffering of the less fortunate.<br />However, the human characters in this book are sketchily drawn, and I found their speech and their reaction to events inappropriate and unbelievable.  I could not find a single character to like or identify with.<br />I also found the author's writing style to be unecessarily odd and awkward.<br />I am puzzled at the author's need to invent a semi-fictional serial killer when there was a real one working the Columbian Exposition.  H.H. Holmes, the mad doctor and killer of young women who registered at his hotel of horrors is a more interesting character than Michod's Husker.<br />I imagine Michod reasoned that there had been enough written about Holmes's activities--notably the earlier non-fiction book 'Devil in the White City.'<br />I did not like this book.  Yet, several days after finishing it, I find it still much on my mind.  So what does that mean?  No idea. You'll have to try it and judge for yourself, I guess...<br />I give it an 'A' for atmosphere, a 'C' for character development and plot, and a 'C-' for writing style.	2004-02-18
US	50594384	R1U37IHEZIJKLP	0786014202	664147005	Thicker Than Water	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A Great New Series!	I admit it--I do not usually like female mystery writers.  I also do not usually like books written by committee (in this case a team of two sisters).<br />I picked up 'Thicker Than Water' on the basis of a recommendation I read on one of Amazon's lists.  I am glad I did.  Parrish's books, with the exception of the first, are published as paper back originals.  If ever an author deserved hard cover treatment, this one does.<br />I am also wondering about the lack of professional reviews of the Parrish books on the Amazon site.  I wonder why this author is not getting the attention she (they) truly deserve.<br />The series has a mixed race protagonist, Louis Kincaid, who, like the best of the fictional detectives, is conflicted about almost everything in his life.  The books are set in the 1980s before DNA and widespread use of computer technology.  Smart move.<br />'Thicker Than Water' is rich in character development and sense of time and place. It is as well plotted as anything currently on the mystery best seller lists.<br />In this book, the horrific 20 year old rape and murder of a beautiful young girl may be the key to solving a present day homicide. The man convicted of that murder, and recently released after serving his time, is the prime suspect in the current slaying.<br />Kincaid believes that the thoroughly unlikeable Jack Cade, the man convicted of the rape and murder, may in fact, be innocent.  He forms a shaky alliance with Susan Outlaw, Cade's court appointed attorney.  <br />This book is filled with fully developed characters.  Even the bit players have been created with great care.  The childhood friend of the murdered girl is one of the most touching characters in the book.<br />I think the Kincaid series has great potential.  <br />Buy these books.  <br />Read them.  <br />Recommend them to your friends.  <br />Talk them up to your local booksellers.  <br />Kincaid deserves hardcovers and a publicity team working on his behalf.	2003-09-01
US	50594384	R87CE0J8KEF8G	051513306X	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark and Disturbing	An amazing Rubik's Cube of a novel, with the reader twisting and turning the clues to come up with a solution to the puzzle.<br />On a rainy night twenty years ago, Annie Butts, a black woman suffering from Tourette's Syndrome was found dead in the gutter in front of M. Ranelagh's house. 'Mad' Annie was hated by her neighbors on Graham Court because of her race and her disability.<br />... it's been a long time since I picked up a book this hard to put down.  Walters is a fine writer of psychological mysteries.  Her characters are finely drawn and disturbingly real. I can heartily recommend this novel.	2002-08-20
US	50594384	R3S1ZR2KNXR2Q7	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Last Frontier	The Blue Nowhere refers to cyberspace--the last true frontier.  Deaver's story concerns a cyberspace shootout between codeslinging renegades.  \\"Phate\\"is the screen name of the brilliant sociopath who uses his hacking skills to play a deadly game of murder.  He uses his computer prowess to gather information about his potential victims, and then gains their confidence through \\"social engineering\\" which is simply fitting himself into their world and gaining their trust.<br />His opponent is Wyatt (as in Earp) Gillette, a hacker wizard who is furloughed from prison to help the Computer Crimes Unit of the police capture Phate.  Gillette is serving time for hacking into the Department of defense computers.  His obsession with computers has cost him his wife, who could not compete with his love of machines.  Phate and Gillette were cyber friends before Phate turned to the dark side of computer hacking.<br />Gillette and Phate play a game of cat and mouse outwitting and outhacking each other time after time.  Twist follows turn in this thriller.  Is there a traitor in the police department?  Will Wyatt convince his wife to give him another chance?  Does Phate have an accomplice?  If so, who?<br />I found it hard to believe that a book whose protagonist and antagonist spent most of their time keying away at computers could prove so exciting, but I was wrong, wrong, wrong!  It's a great read.  The computer information is both fascinating and frightening, and the characters are well drawn and believable. <br />The insight in to the sub culture of hacker \\"wizards\\" is compelling.  I hated to have the book end.  I learned that true hackers have thick calluses on their finger tips from constant keying.  They favor foods high in sugar--helps keep them awake for up to 36 hours straight, pounding away at (and sometimes breaking!) their keyboards.  Gillette's food of choice is Pop Tarts.<br />I love computers and I love mysteries, so this book couldn't miss.  I am hoping Deaver willbring Wyatt Gillette back in a future novel.  He's a cool guy.	2002-04-09
US	50594384	ROWQHXAXUQJX3	0805054987	935287733	Off Minor (Charlie Resnick Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Wonderful Series!	I just discovered the Charlie Resnick series and I am loving it!<BR>John Harvey has created a believable, compassionate protagonist in Charlie.  Charlie's a bit of a schlump--loves his food and isn't too concerned about grooming or fashion.  He loves American Jazz and he loves his cats.  This British police procedural series introduces us to the detectives in Charlie's crew and we grow to know and like them all.<br />When two little girls go missing and one is found murdered, Charlie fears he may be dealing with a serial killer.  The story jumps quickly back and forth between characters and this method of story telling proves very effective after one becomes accustomed to it.  The two little girls are the same age, but from different economic circumstances.  Harvey does a fine job in showing us the devastation their disappearances cause their respective families.<br />Harvey is a fine writer and skilled at picturing the despair, danger and frustration of Nottingham's mean streets, where gangs of unemployed or underemployed youths take out their rage on each other.  His Charlie Resnick is a bit of an outsider himself, having been born of Polish immigrants.  He never seems to feel quite comfortable embracing either his Polishness or his Englishness.  He's something of a loner.  His marriage failed and his relationships usually fizzle as well.  <br />He has great sympathy and concern for the victims he meets in his work, and for his crew of detectives, but his most solid relationships are with his four cats.  I recommend this series without reservation.	2002-03-23
US	50594384	RSPRDD1E4GJ0S	034537536X	334108134	Show of Evil	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Disappointing Sequel	Oh, I am so tired of authors throwing together a book in order to capitalize on the success of a previous effort and/or movie!<BR>This is the sequel to \\"Primal Fear\\", which was a suspenseful and gripping read. This novel can't decide what it wants to be. Diehl throws in sub plots that distract from his main story. <br />In the main plot,Aaron Stampler, the multiple personality, or possible faker, from \\"Primal Fear\\" is supposedly cured and about to be released from the mental hospital in which he has been incarcerated. However, murders are being committed that bear Stampler's unmistakeable MO. The people being killed are all connected to Stampler and their deaths appear to be revenge murders. Has he a disciple? If so how is he making contact? He has had no visitors for ten years, no outside contact at all, in fact. Martin Vail, Stampler's former defense attorney, is now the DA. He enlists the aid of Jane Venable, who prosecuted Stampler in the first case, to help investigate the new murders.<BR>Surprise, surprise! The two fall in love.<br />The sub plots involving bodies found in a landfill, a wife murdered by an abusive husband, and a disgruntled employee killing her boss, go pretty much nowhere and harbor no surprises for the reader.<br />The writing is careless--how can anyone see a shadow looming up BEHIND her? The editing is sloppy, and the changes in the characters from one book to the next not very believable. The ending is straight out of a B horror movie and leaves room for yet another sequel--please no, no! I was very disappointed.	2002-02-17
US	50594384	R1RFZAT1J566OG	0451200799	989223479	The Shadow Hunter	Books	4	123	125	N	N	Highly Recommended!	Well, I'm impressed!  I am a pretty jaded mystery reader, but Prescott managed to fake me out with this book.  I liked it a lot, and wholeheartedly recommend it to lovers of good mysteries.<BR>The heroine is Abby Sinclair.  She is a hunter of stalkers.  She insinuates herself into their lives and collects information that will bring them down before they can claim a victim. Abby is bright, extremely competent and amazingly resourceful.  Prescott's villian, Raymond Hickle, is believable and well written, as is Hickle's quarry, a beautiful TV news reporter.  This book is suspenseful, carefully crafted, gracefully written, and is guaranteed to keep you reading non stop until the end. I hope Prescott sees fit to bring Abby back in a sequel.  Meanwhile, I have ordered his other three novels.	2002-02-10
US	50594384	R1GEETI201JC0Y	1551665735	870830835	A Perfect Evil	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An Uneven First Novel	There is a theory, mostly among male readers of crime fiction, that female writers in the genre are inclined to be lightweights who pad their stories with too much romance.  Well, yeah!  Alex Kava, a woman with a man's name, has to plead at least partly guilty to this charge.  The novel is loaded with bodice-ripper fantasizing and purple prose.<br />It's the tale of a serial killer kidnapping and murdering young boys in a small Nebraska town.  Maggie O'Dell, an FBI profiler is called in to furnish a profile of the killer.  The sherif is Nick Morelli, a Marlboro man who sets female hearts a flutter. Nick is out of his depth in this case.  He is following in the footsteps of his charismatic father, who ruled over his family with a heavy hand.<br />Maggie is fresh from an encounter with a Hannibal Lecter type who injured her in both body and spirit.  Although this serial murderer is now in prison, he haunts her dreams.  Maggie is in a troubled marriage and is drawn to the hansome sheriff against her better judgement. As they work together to solve the case, it becomes personal when Nick's nephew is kidnapped by the killer.  Along the way we have a generous helping of possible corruption in the Sheriff's Department and perhaps in the local Catholic Church as well.<br />This book is not as well written as it could be, and the characters are a bit wooden.  Kava does better with the supporting cast than with Maggie and Nick.  The overheated romance novel scenarios really don't work.  It would have been a much better story without them.  There are enough red herrings scattered about the plot to make a good sized sandwich, and certainly the ending will disappoint a lot of readers.  And why would an author create a radio station with the call letters KRAP??  That was a pretty jarring note!  Deep media hatred?<br />BUT! But, all that aside, I liked a lot of this book and there is definite promise shown here.  Kava just has to trust her story and forget about fervid gropings and embarrassing sex scenes.  She got me involved in the plot and despite myself, I enjoyed reading this first novel.  I think the next one will be better.  I hope so--I just ordered it!	2002-01-14
US	50594384	R20LTKFEMGQB5O	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Novel of Suspense	This is what critics like to refer to as a &quot;coming of age novel&quot;.<BR>I am not fond of this kind of facile shorthand.  This is a book about a sister and brother growing up in East Texas. Their mother, Meg, is a passive, helpless woman who cannot imagine or endure existence without the protection of a man.<br />When her husband leaves her for another(presumably spunkier) woman, her world falls apart and she becomes unable to function.<BR>So the children, Alice and Boone, are at first pleased when Simon Jester comes into her life.  Meg and Simon marry and life seems good for a while.<br />Simon, however, becomes increasingly autocratic and unstable until the children become convinced that he means to kill them.<BR>Meg, of course, does not believe them; she is just happy to have a man in her life once again.  Till one night she creeps into the children's room and whispers to them, &quot;Run!&quot;.<br />Alice and her gentle, trusting brother, Boone are wonderful characters, as is Perseley, an East Texas teenager who murdered her mother and attempted to kill her father as well.  Perseley has become famous, both for her crimes and for her skill at breaking out of prison.  She has accumulated a following of young groupies who look upon her as akin to a movie or rock star.  Boone is among her admirers and has compiled a scrapbook about her exploits.<br />The one problem I have with this book is wondering how such a passive, submissive mother could have given birth to such bright, resourseful children.<br />This is a well written, suspense filled novel.  I recommend it.<br />I have not read Hepinstall's first book, but I liked this one well enough to seek it out.	2001-10-09
US	50594384	R3EQ6P5IBX96EV	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Lovely Second Novel	This is what critics love to call a &quot;coming of age novel&quot;. I hate these shorthand descriptions. What exactly does &quot;coming of age&quot; mean? Eighteenth birthday? Twenty-first? Loss of innocence? Sexual awakening?<BR>At any rate, this is the story of two precocious kids, Boone and Alice-a brother and sister growing up in a rural area of eastern Texas in the 1970s. Their mother, Meg, is a passive, dependent woman who cannot imagine existence without a man to take care of her. When her husband leaves her for another (presumably spunkier!)woman, she falls into depression and lethargy.<BR>When Simon Jester saves Meg from drowning and becomes her new husband, her children are pleased at first, and glad that she is happy again. But the story soon turns dark. Simon is not what he seems. In fact the children soon become convinced that he is planning to kill them. Their mother refuses to believe them, and will not listen to their suspicions. Until she comes into their room one night and whispers to them, &quot;run!&quot;.<BR>The characters in this novel are believable. Although one wonders how a woman who chose to live in passivity and denial, could have had such bright and resourceful children. I especially liked the character of Persely, a teen ager who murdered her mother and attempted to kill her father as well. Persely has escaped from prison several times and has a devoted following of groupies. Boone is one of her admirers, and has a scrapbook devoted to her.<BR>I liked this book a lot. It is well written with likeable kids as the protagonists. They seem credible and the author succeeded in making a pretty far fetched plot believable.<BR>I have not read Hepinstall's first book, but I liked this one enough to make a point of seeking out her first novel.	2001-09-14
US	50594384	R20N39MCEHQZ93	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A Lovely Second Novel	This is what critics love to call a &quot;coming of age novel&quot;.  I hate these shorthand descriptions.  What exactly does &quot;coming of age&quot; mean?  Eighteenth birthday?  Twenty-first?  Loss of innocence?  Sexual awakening?<br />At any rate, this is the story of two precocious kids, Boone and Alice-a brother and sister growing up in a rural area of eastern Texas in the 1970s.  Their mother, Meg, is a passive, dependent woman who cannot imagine existence without a man to take care of her.  When her husband leaves her for another (presumably spunkier!)woman, she falls into depression and lethargy.<br />When Simon Jester saves Meg from drowning and becomes her new husband, her children are pleased at first, and glad that she is happy again.  But the story soon turns dark.  Simon is not what he seems.  In fact the children soon become convinced that he is planning to kill them.  Their mother refuses to believe them, and will not listen to their suspicions. Until one night she comes into their room at night and whispers to them, &quot;run!&quot;.<br />The characters in this novel are believable.  Although one wonders how a woman who chose to live in passivity and denial, could have had such bright and resourceful children.  I especially liked the character of Persely, a teen ager who murdered her mother and attempted to kill her father as well. Persely has escaped from prison several times and has a devoted following of groupies.  Boone is one of her admirers, and has a scrapbook devoted to her.<br />I liked this book a lot.  It is well written with likeable kids as the protagonists.  They seem credible and the author succeeded in making a pretty far fetched plot believable.<br />I have not read Hepinstall's first book, but I liked this one enough to make a point of seeking out her first novel.	2001-09-14
US	50594384	R2ABUTF8PL27S9	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Wonderful Novel!	Margaret Atwood has written a brilliant multi-layered story.<BR>Two days after the end of WWII, young Laura Chase drives her car off a bridge. Her death is ruled accidental, though suspicions of suicide are bandied about. The narrator of this story is Laura's sister, Iris, now in her 80s.<BR>After Laura's death a manuscript was found among her things. This novel was published, and made Laura Chase a cult heroine. This novel-within-a-novel tells the story of two anonymous lovers, she of high social standing, he of working class origin. He is on the run from the Red Squads, Communist hunters of the time. In their assignations, he tells her a continuing story, a pulp magazine tale of the planet Zycron, with its virgin sacrifices, undead women who prey upon travellers, and slave children who are put to work weaving beautiful carpets until their eyes give out. When the children become blind they are trained as assassins who contract their services to the highest bidders.<BR>Iris, the narrator, was given into marriage at age 17, to a man she despised, in order to cement an alliance which would save her father's button factory.  The factory was failing, a victim of the Depression of the 1930s.<BR>The novel shifts back and forth in time, and covers the years between the first World War and the present. It is rich in characterization, and Atwood's writing and use of the idioms of the period are impeccable. When Reenie, the housekeeper, talked, I could hear my mother speaking. Atwood's love and mastery of the language is apparent on every page.<BR>Iris is not a perfect person, but to give her credit, she realizes that she is a bit of a snob, and that most times she opted for an easy life over a true one. When she was young her father tried to teach her his business, but she chose not to make the effort, and allowed herself to be pushed into a loveless marriage.<BR>Her sister, Laura, on the other hand had a social conscience, and fell in love as a teenager with a social activist who was on the run--obviously the basis for the character in her book.<BR>I loved this book, and many times stopped short after reading a sentence and said to myself, &quot;Yes! That's exactly right! I wish I had written those words!&quot;. The only criticism I have is that the story lags a bit in the last 100 pages. The final twist of the novel is not terribly hard to predict, but satisfying all the same.	2001-09-03
US	50594384	R2POTV4WZSUCVG	0759612447	225391651	Glorious Failure	Books	2	10	13	N	N	Prescient Title	I think I am too old to be a impartial reviewer of this book. First of all, I found the bad editing to be very distracting. There were a lot of grammatical and spelling errors that really put me off. However, I found the basic story rather intriguing. Walter Pan is a twenty-something citizen in an unspecified time and place. When he scores an almost perfect score on the ASCAP test used to evaluate all citizens for job placement, he refuses to play the game and walks out of the placement office. The powers that be then throw him into Tranquility, an asylum/prison for the non comforming. He is a Messianic figure for Gen Xers.<BR>Jonjak belabors his points, and he does have some good ones, mightly, and endlessly. I wanted to shout &quot;I GET IT, I GET IT!&quot; many times.<BR>The young and the old have always been at war, and I imagine it will be so forever. It's always hard to relinquish power to the next generation, and it's always fashionable to blame one's elders for the state of the world. And it's always easy to believe that your generation has the answers that will fix everything. The 60s peace and love Flower Children who were going to be different from their money grubbing folks, are now the entrepreneurial owners of the flower shops! And their kids are now the generation with all the answers.<BR>This book is a howl of rage from Generation X. As a story it says little that other books have not said better and earlier--see &quot;1984&quot;. There is some talent here, but it definitely needs refining. I hope he tries again.	2001-09-03
US	50594384	R3CFYX82TGS088	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lions and Cheeseheads and Hands, Oh My!	First, I have to admit to being a Packer fan, so I may be unfairly prejudiced toward cheesehead influenced literature.<BR>Now that I have made my confession, let me say that I thought this was a wise and funny book about the power of love.<BR>Patrick Wallingford is a handsome, whitebread, serial adulterer. Patrick is a reporter who works for a tabloid TV &quot;news&quot; cable channel. Think MSNBC during the Diana or JFK Jr media frenzy. Patrick is covering the death of a circus performer who was crushed while trying to catch his wife as she fell from a trapeze. When Patrick inadvertently stands too close to the lions' cage, one of the beasts chews off his left hand. All of this is caught on tape and played and replayed for the avid public. Ratings soar. Patrick becomes known as &quot;the lion guy&quot;.<BR>Meanwhile, in Wisconsin, Doris Clausen, a Packer organization employee, watches the TV coverage of the incident, and begins having visions of donating her husband's hand to Patrick. When hubby soon dies in a freak accident, she sets about making her vision reality. Her only stipulation is that she must have visitation rights to the hand after it is transplanted to Patrick's left arm. Soon, under Doris's influence, Patrick becomes a better man.<BR>The hand is transplanted by a prominent surgeon, Dr Sajak. Dr Sajak, his small, troubled son, a &quot;poo eating&quot; dog, and their young housekeeper, have their own story of redemption to tell.<BR>It's a fine and funny book. It's about time that someone roasted the cable pseudo-news channels. Mary, Patrick's boss is the villian of the story, and she's a real shark, with a hidden agenda of her own.<BR>It's not as good a book as &quot;The World According to Garp&quot;, but writers cannot be expected to hit a grand slam every time at bat. This is a solid base hit.	2001-09-01
US	50594384	R2U4SY0FQLBYEH	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lions and Cheeseheads and Hands, Oh My!	First, I have to admit to being a Packer fan, so I may be unfairly prejudiced toward cheesehead influenced literature.<BR>Now that I have made my confession, let me say that I thought this was a wise and funny book about the power of love.<BR>Patrick Wallingford is a handsome, whitebread, serial adulterer. Patrick is a reporter who works for a tabloid TV &quot;news&quot; cable channel. Think MSNBC during the Diana or JFK Jr media frenzy. Patrick is covering the death of a circus performer who was crushed while trying to catch his wife as she fell from a trapeze. When Patrick inadvertently stands too close to the lions' cage, one of the beasts chews off his left hand. All of this is caught on tape and played and replayed for the avid public. Ratings soar. Patrick becomes known as &quot;the lion guy&quot;.<BR>Meanwhile, in Wisconsin, Doris Clausen, a Packer organization employee, watches the TV coverage of the incident, and begins having visions of donating her husband's hand to Patrick. When hubby soon dies in a freak accident, she sets about making her vision reality. Her only stipulation is that she must have visitation rights to the hand after it is transplanted to Patrick's left arm. Soon, under Doris's influence, Patrick, becomes a better man.<BR>The hand is transplanted by a prominent surgeon, Dr Sajak. Dr Sajak, his small, troubled son, a &quot;poo eating&quot; dog, and their young housekeeper, have their own story of redemption to tell.<BR>It's a fine and funny book. It's about time that someone roasted the cable pseudo-news channels. Mary, Patrick's boss is the villian of the story, and she's a real shark, with a hidden agenda of her own.<BR>It's not as good a book as &quot;The World According to Garp&quot;, but writers cannot be expected to hit a grand slam every time at bat. This is a solid base hit.	2001-09-01
US	50594384	R3M28Y5YIWF248	006093493X	324624246	Blonde: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Candle in the Wind	I absolutely admire this book, and JCO's talent. She is amazing in her insight into human behavior and emotion. This book, though a fictionalized account of Marilyn Monroe's life, comes closer than anything else I have read to capturing what I believe to be MM's essence. I don't know what is truth and what is fiction in Oates's novel, but it FEELS true. Oates makes us understand that Marilyn Monroe was a persona that Norma Jeane Baker invented and donned like a costume. As she became more and more a commodity and less and less a person, the facade of Marilyn Monroe became harder and harder for her to conjure up. Her struggle to exist within these two identities colored her relationships with men--her bosses used her sexually and dismissed with ridicule her attempts to become a serious actress. Her relationships with the men in her life were either merely sexual and exploitive, or colored by her lovers' jealousy of her sexual appeal to other men. Finally she could hold her life together no longer. Oates does not go into detail on Marilyn's death, nor does she speculate on whether it was accidental, suicide or murder. I do not think we will ever know with any certainty. And that seems right. I became so immersed in this book that I hated for it to end. Please read it.	2001-08-27
US	50594384	R1OBPUWR5QD43I	0375701176	380487726	A Summons to Memphis	Books	3	28	38	N	N	Betrayal and Pay Back	I know, I know, Pulitzer Prize novel, but I just couldn't warm to it.  First of all, I found no character I could like.  The protagonist is a middle aged gentleman now living a dull, colorless life in New York City with a woman as drab as he is.  He is still angry at his father for moving the family from Nashville to Memphis when he was 13 years old. The father had been betrayed by his partner and best friend, and was so humiliated and enraged that he uprooted his family and commanded them never to utter the name of his betrayer again.  The move affected every member of the family adversely.  The mother seemed to adapt at first, but soon took to her bed and stayed there for thirty years.  The 18 and 19 year old daughters had their beaus run off by their father. One because he came from Nashville, and the other because he was distantly related to the father's betrayer.  The second son joined the armed service as soon as he became old enough and died in the Second World War.<br />Forty years later, when their father is planning to remarry after his wife's death, the adult daughters plot to stop the wedding, and enlist their brother to return to Memphis to assist in their scheme.  Evidently it was a common practice in Memphis to prevent elderly widowers from remarrying in order to save the estate from falling into the new spouse's clutches.  In this case it is motivated more by revenge than financial concerns.<br />This is the story of a controlling parent and children too cowed to take control of their own lives. The father in this novel was so self absorbed that he did not see his family as individuals, but only as extensions of himself.  Therefore he had no realization of the pain he was inflicting. Their lives were irrevocably damaged by their father's action, but they could have saved themselves and chose not to do so.  Their subsequent revenge on their eighty year old father could not have been satisfactory, and did not liberate them in any way.  A cold, sad book, impeccably written, but not engaging.<br />Not being a Southerner, I don't relate to a place and time where one's pedigree is more important than one's character, and folks can pinpoint one's origin right down to an area of a few blocks by one's accent.  Where a certain style of dress is deemed to be &quot;Nashville&quot; and another &quot;Memphis&quot;.  Since this is definitely a regional story, perhaps I lack the necessary understanding to review this book properly.	2001-08-14
US	50594384	R1JE59E1LK41XC	0525946268	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Family Tragedy	Ms. Oates sets up a perfect American family--a slightly ditzy but loving and beloved mother, successful, robust, salesman-type father, an athletic son, a brainy son, a popular cheerleader daughter, and Judd, the baby of the family, who acts as narrator. The Mulvaneys live an idyllic life at High Point Farm in upstate New York.  They are filled with love for each other, and blessedly sure that life will be good forever.  Alas, it is not to be.  Marianne, the much loved daughter, is the victim of a date rape.  The family soon feels the whispers and scorn of the town.  At this point her father feels he cannot bear the ostracization by his former friends, and the shame he feels his daughter has brought upon the family.  He banishes her, sending her to live with a relative.  His wife makes the decision to sacrifice her daughter, believing she will save her husband by doing so.  The fortunes of the family change dramatically.  The father descends into bankruptcy and drink, and the family is shattered beyond repair.  <br />I liked this book immensely, but the action of the mother in condoning the exile of her daughter in the belief that it would salvage her marriage really disturbed me.  I had to stop reading for a while to calm down.  Ms. Oates is a wonderful writer with a lot of insight into human emotions, but the dissolution of this ideal family is hard to accept.  From the tenor of the reviews I have read on this site, people either loved or hated this book.  All of Ms. Oates's irritating mannerisms are present.  The exclamations!!! (The parentheses).  &quot;The quotation marks&quot;.  The italics (can't do those here!).  That aside, I did truly admire this book.  My one objection would be that the ending was too pat.  It felt as if it was wrapped up too neatly.  But it is well worth your time.	2001-07-28
US	50594384	RGQPDLTTT1CJE	0399147284	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	4	0	1	N	N	True to Form	This book is a great improvement over the last &quot;Prey&quot; effort. Lucas and company are on the trail of a serial killer with a penchant for young, naive blonds, preferably Catholic.  The killer likes to photograph potential victims, or women who have annoyed him.  He does this without their knowledge, then creates pornographic artworks from the photos on his computer and sends them to his prey. <br />He then becomes acquainted with his victims, taking advantage of their naivete  to insert himself into their lives and begin intimate relationships with them.  Then he murders them and buries their bodies in his hillside dumping ground.  When rain washes one of the bodies to the surface, the police discover many more graves, and the chase begins.<br />Sandford has created a whimsical monster in James Qater.  In a funny twist the woman he has chosen to be his next victim, is so sexually curious and inventive that she leaves him too exhausted to kill her.<br />In a side plot, Lucas is back with his old love, Dr Weather Karkinnen, whose biological clock is clamoring wildly.  So Lucas, too, is sexually exhausted. (Please, Sandford, no babies! That would be &quot;Jumping the Shark&quot;!)  <br />Anyway, this was quite a funny book.  The cops are worried that a falling murder rate will lead to layoffs, and Rosemary Roux, Lucas's boss, is worried because the mayor is retiring and her job will go to a new appointee.<br />And Sandford's other character, Kidd, makes a cameo, and catches the romantic eye of Lucas's partner, Marcy.  <br />I am glad to see this series return to its previous level.	2001-06-16
US	50594384	R1P2D622TE75FA	0679776214	273386240	The Grotesque	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Butler Did It---Or Did He?	This is McGrath's first book, and it's a good one.  A goof on the familiar Gothic novel, it tells the story of the hostile take-over of a creepy old estate by the owner's butler.  However, since the narrator is in a state of complete paralysis, and quite possibly insane, his story is suspect.  Is the butler really doing the nasty with Sir Hugo's wife?  Who murdered the insipid fiance of Sir Hugo's daughter and fed him to the estate's pigs?  What REALLY happened in Sir Hugo's barn workshop the day he became paralyzed?<br />A black comedy of murder and manners, THE GROTESQUE provides us with the requsite gloomy mansion, a dismal swamp, a suspicious servant, bad plumbing, and a possible inspiration for Thomas Harris's HANNIBAL.  I recommend it.	2001-05-05
US	50594384	R1MKR8FAHUV9CA	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Dark and Disturbing	From skimming the customer reviews, I can see that this is a &quot;like it, or hate it&quot; novel.  It's a book about loss--almost every kind of loss possible.  Loss of innocence and childhood, loss of friendship, loss of a child, a sibling, a mate, and loss of one's moral anchor.  It's beautifully written, but as I read I found myself hoping that this story did not come from any dark place in Lehane's own soul.  It's a somber book unlike his PI series which is leavened with humor.  I like the theme it presents--that an event from the past echos down the years to change the lives of those involved forever, and in changing the people they would have become, the event also impacts upon the lives of everyone their lives touch.  It's a sad and wise book. I recommend it.	2001-04-22
US	50594384	R1CZIQ56VOSI2O	0316785644	658358380	The Fig Eater	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Tale of Vienna	I liked this book, but at the same time it exasperated me. It tells the story of Dora, a young woman who is found murdered in a public park in Vienna. The nameless Inspector investigating Dora's murder is a fledgling criminalist, who practices forensic science in solving cases. He determines that Dora had eaten a fresh fig immediately prior to her death. Erzebet, the Inspector's wife, is a believer in Gypsy lore. She becomes obsessed with Dora's murder and starts a clandestine parallel investigation with the help of her friend, Wally. Wally is an English governess at loose ends because the family she serves is on vacation. Erzebet and Wally are sure that the figs found in Dora's stomach are a vital clue since no fresh figs are available in Vienna in winter. <br />This novel is successful in bringing Vienna to life. One can almost see the snowy landscape and the whirling skaters on the icy rivers, feel the biting cold, and taste the rich desserts and hot chocolate drinks. The author certainly cannot be faulted on atmosphere. She takes us to a strange, men only, museum where men can view anatomically correct figures of women. Along the way we learn a lot about botany, Gypsy superstition, photography and food. However, the puzzle of the figs is never satisfactorily explained.  The homoerotic feelings of Wally toward Erzebet are clearly present, but are never addressed, either. I finished the book feeling very unsatisfied.<br />This novel is a fictionalization of the story of one of Freud's patients.	2001-01-10
US	50594384	R1HK7MYGIYDLM6	0345440188	452858431	The Ice Harvest	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Knockout  Noir	I have to love a writer who can tell a great story in under 300 pages.  And make no mistake, this is a great story.  Mean, lowdown and dirty, with a cast of characters who have not one redeeming quality between them.  It all takes place in Wichita on Christmas Eve in 1979.  Charlie is a shady lawyer who, with his partner, Vic, has stolen enough money from their mob connected boss to leave town and start a new, better life.  While Charlie waits to hook up with his partner, who has the money, and to catch his plane, he wanders aimlessly around town in a snowstorm, visiting the strip clubs owned by his boss, drinking too much, and visiting his angry ex-wife and the children he has always neglected.  Phillips captures the lonely, dreary lives of the strippers, drunks and employees of the seedy clubs and bars still open on a snowy Christmas Eve.  There's an incriminating photo, a package full of money, and lots of double dealing.  Charlie is a man who has some good intentions and impulses, but generally manages to overcome them.  It's a violent book, funny and ironic, too.  Phillips creates an atmospheric world of lonliness, brutality and sleaze.  It's a stunning debut.  I can't wait for the follow-up.	2001-01-10
US	50594384	R1CTDDITQCOBF2	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	4	73	104	N	N	O'Reilly's  Life Factor	Oh, for Heaven's sake, folks, calm down.  O'Reilly is neither the Messiah or Satan.  I can't believe the fuss over this book! People seem to be reading into it things that simply aren't there.  I am pretty new to O'Reilly, but he seems pretty level headed to me.  He says what he believes to be the truth and lets the chips fall where they may.  Fine with me. Sometimes our sacred cows deserved to be made into hamburger.  Who, in his heart of hearts, doesn't see Jesse Jackson's self-aggrandizment, or Janet Reno's surrender of ethics?  Or Bill and Hillary Clinton's crass, money-grubbing, debasement of the Presidency? One doesn't have to be Conservative to see these things, just conscious!<br />That being said, the book seems less a political diatribe and more a blueprint for living a moral, ethical, and sucessful life.  America needs more common sense voices like O'Reilly's.  I will certainly continue to watch his show.  While I won't always agree, I will always listen.	2000-10-21
US	50594384	RAEG7CVGW7NLN	0786866462	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	2	8	16	N	N	A Density of Plot!	Given the family he was born into, I suppose this book was bound to happen.  It's the story of four young friends and the youthful indescretions that plunged them (and half of New Orleans) into unbelievable (and that's a literal use of the word!) chaos.<br />It reads like Faulkner Lite on speed.  High school hell, homosexual longings, homoerotic obsession, rape, alcholism, adultry, accidental death by garbage truck, madness, terrorism, militia groups, and a really big hurricane.  I'm sure I've left a couple out, but you get the idea.<br />I found the characters to be unlikable, and rather poorly drawn.  Rice could not make me believe that these happenings were a natural and inevitable outcome for the characters as he defined them. The whole scenario seemed false and contrived. The editing seemed a bit shaky in places, also.<br />I assume that the gay, artistic, and sensitive Stephen was intended to be Rice's alter-ego, and that the high school slings and arrows he suffered were similar to Rice's own.  The book would have worked better as the story of a homosexual youth finding his way to self-acceptance, minus the action movie background.  Much less would have been much more.<br />If you're looking for high school hell, watch &quot;Popular&quot; on TV.  If it's Southern Gothic you seek, stick with Faulkner.	2000-10-21
US	50594384	R398N5KQ6C5CNM	0380794772	708765675	In a Dry Season (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Evocative WW II Puzzler	This is my first Inspector Banks novel, and I liked it very much. Banks' live is rather a mess as he tries to work through the end of a long marriage, father and son disagreements about his son, Brian's, future, and the seeming ruin of his career by a powerful superior, who assigns him, out of malice, to an ice cold 50 year old case. Over 50 years ago, Hobbs End, a tiny Yorkshire village, was abandoned and flooded to form Thornfield Reservoir. A young boy playing fantasy games in the recently dried up reservoir bottom, finds skeletal remains buried in the floor of an old building. Banks and DS Annie Cabbot set out to identify the victim and solve the mystery of her death.<br />The story alternates adroitly between time periods and narrators, as we explore the events that led up to the crime.  Robinson takes his time, develops his characters fully, and brings the World War II era in a tiny English village vividly to life. His people are well rounded beings, with their share of faults and virtues.<br />Many story tellers use the device of the past coming back to haunt the present.  Robinson does it better than most.  His story peels away in layer after layer until the final truth is revealed.  He explores love, loyalty, duty, friendship and conscience, and the price one pays for these traits. This book brings to mind Ruth Rendell, who has written books in the same vein.  I will certainly seek out more books by Peter Robinson.	2000-10-02
US	50594384	R1FXIARZIER8V7	0553105639	317255283	Places in the Dark	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Vintage Thomas Cook	If you have never read a Thomas Cook novel, I guarantee that you will love this one.  If you have, it's going to be just more of the same.  Cook returns to the theme that seems to obsess him--that evil from the past will always return to impact upon the present.<br />In this outing, set in the Depression, a mysterious young woman alights from a bus in the small Maine town where brothers Cal and Billy live. Her name is Dora March (or is it?).  She has beautiful green eyes and horrible scars on her back. The brothers who are completely opposite in personality (Cook beats us over the head making this point), fall hard for the lovely stranger. Cal keeps his infatuation from Billy, as he does not want to hurt him.  Later Cal finds out Dora has feelings for him, but she refuses to act on them.<br />When Billy is murdered and Dora flees, Cal believes her to be responsible and, half mad, sets out on a cross country journey to find her.  The only clue he has is a California address he found in a book she left behind.<br />Cook's writing is poetic and lyrical, sometimes self-consciously so, his characters, especially Cal and Billy's mother, are almost caricatures.  They are assigned a trait and spend the rest of the book living up to it.  There is a surprise twist at the end--again a staple in Cook's writing.  If you are a first time reader it will all seem fresh and exciting.  If you're not, it will just be an instant replay.	2000-09-25
US	50594384	RB0E14W8J6ORT	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	4	3	3	N	N	To KIll a Prostitute	This book is bound to be compared to Harper Lee's TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD,  and indeed there are many similarities.  A young brother and sister are at  the story's center.  Their father, who is the town constable, is a good man  trying to do the right thing.  The story takes place during the Depression  in the South. Racial hatred and hysteria motivate many of the townspeople.   Instead of Boo Radley we have the Goat Man, a legendary boogy-man said to  live in the river bottoms under the Swinging Bridge. Instead of Tom, a  young black man accused of raping a white girl, we have Mose, an old black  man accused of murdering a white woman.<br />When young Harry and his sister  Tom, find the mutilated body of a black prostitute lashed to a tree near  the bridge, they believe the Goat Man to be the murderer.  Their father,  Jacob, believing a human hand responsible, tries to investigate the case  and runs into the indifference and hatred of the locals, who believe that a  black man was probably the killer, and black on black killings are of no  account and do not deserve investigation.  The town doctor refuses to  examine the body, and Jacob receives warnings and threats as he continues  to delve into the murder.  More killings follow, and when one of the  victims turns out to be a white prostitute, the town turns violent and  lynches an elderly black man they have convinced themselves is responsible.  Jacob blames himself for the lynching and sinks into drink and  depression.<br />Although this book has a mystery at its heart, it is more a  character driven story of the magic of childhood and the inevitable loss of  innocence.  Lansdale has been around for a long time and has a small but  loyal following.  He has written in many genres, horror, a detective  series, and many short stories.  This may be the first of his books to  appeal to a mainstream audience.  It's not as good as MOCKINGBIRD, but it's  well worth a look.<br />I reviewed this book from uncorrected proofs,and am  assuming that the editing problems I ran into will be corrected in the mass  market edition.	2000-09-13
US	50594384	RTHKF7C7LXT5O	0375411445	435436234	American Rhapsody	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Wicked and Witty Guilty Pleasure	Just when we thought we were out, they pull us back in!!  (With apologies  to the Godfather!)  So you thought you'd had enough of the Clinton/Lewinsky  shenanigans?  Nah!  Not till you read this wickedly funny account.  Joe  Eszterhas has written a big nasty hoot of a book.  It's a &quot;take no  prisioners&quot; account of the sorry and sordid affair that shook the  sacred halls of DC and scared the pants back on some of Washington's more  notable philanderers. The pace is fast and the book leaps back and forth in  time, telling the story in two voices, that of Eszterhas himself, and in  boldface type, that of his demented alter ego, the little man who lives  inside him.  I don't even want to think about WHERE inside him this little  guy has taken up residence. Eszterhas slashes and burns indiscriminantly,  trashing both LA and DC.  He knows where the bodies are buried and does not  hesitate to tell us.  Over and over he makes the point that Hollywood is  the place Clinton really belongs, saying that his kind of behavior is the  norm there.  The gossip is hot and lowdown and probably at least 75% true.   If you like your tell-all books wicked and witty this will definitely be to  your taste.  I loved it even though I hated myself in the morning!	2000-09-06
US	50594384	RAX4B185R4G6V	0440224012	933000105	Heartwood (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Fine New Series	James Lee Burke looks like a cowboy or a roustabout, but writes like a poet.  His love of place is evident in his novels, whether they are set in  New Iberia, Lousiana, or Deaf Smith, Texas.  He also displays his affection  for life's underdogs, and returns again and again to the theme of the abuse  of power by the priviliged few.<br />In this book, &quot;Heartwood&quot;  refers to a type of tree whose core increases in strength as the tree  grows, until it is so strong that saws cannot cut through it.  Burke's  protagonist, Billy Bob Holland, is on his way to becoming a man with a  center of heartwood.  He has a tragedy in his past, an illegitimate son who  is also on his way to becoming a fine and courageous man, and an idealized  love for the town beauty, Peggy Jean Dietrich.  Peggy Jean is married to  the rich, powerful and ruthless, Earl Dietrich.  When Earl sets up the  naive dreamer, Wilbur Pickett, as the thief who stole a fortune in bearer  bonds from his home, Billy Bob takes his case.  That's when all hell breaks  loose in Deaf Smith, Texas!<br />The plot is densly populated and complex.  Burke has always infused his tales with a lot of mysticism, and this one is  no exception.  Wilbur's blind wife is gifted with second sight, and Billy  Bob has visions of the man who was his partner when both were Texas  Rangers.  Burke writes of gangbangers, drug dealers, crooked cops and the  overpriviliged sons and daughters of the wealthy.  This book is beautifully  written and peopled with fully realized characters, admirable, evil, and  all the degrees in between.  I have not yet read &quot;Cimmaron Rose&quot;,  but I am looking forward to another visit to Deaf Smith, Texas.	2000-08-19
US	50594384	RVMFJHG9L883R	0967652804	547057846	Winner Take All	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Very Disappointing First Novel	The dust jacket of this first novel is purple. Good choice--it matches the prose in the first chapter.  I'm sorry to say I could not finish this book.  I got through about 100 pages and found it just too painful to continue.   The plot is standard serial killer stuff, the writing is bad to the point  of being embarrassing to read, and the editing seems non-existent.  I hate  to be so cranky, because any writer who writes a 300+ page novel and gets  it published has done far more than I'm capable of doing.  Pate does seem  to know a lot about police procedures, but that's not enough to carry a  book so noticeably lacking in character development, original plotting,  graceful writing and competent editing.  Sorry, I can't recommend this one.	2000-07-21
US	50594384	RQM6ZXXIJJMQY	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	5	15	17	N	N	&quot;White Teeth&quot;  Has Plenty of Bite!	Oh, my!  What a stunning debut this is!  It's hard to believe this is the work of a 24 year old woman.  She has an amazing command of language and a highly developed sense of irony for one so young.<br />This is the story of  the Jones and Iqbal families.  Archie Jones, a working class Everyman, is  saved from suicide by a cranky butcher who objects to folks gassing  themselves in the restricted parking space in front of his store.  Fated to  live, Archie meets and marries the 19 year old, Clara, a beautiful,  toothless Jamaican who is running from her Jehovah's Witness mother.  Their  daughter is named Irie, which means &quot;no problem&quot; in Jamaican  patois.  The name is definitely not prophetic.<br />Archie's WWII war buddy,  Samad Iqbal, weds the  cranky, opinionated, and aggressive Alsana in an  arranged marriage.  This union produces the dashingly handsome twins,  Millat and Magid.<br />As the lives of these two multi-ethnic families  progress, Smith addresses weighty questions of race, religion, sex,  history, gene tinkering, and the immigrants' very real fear of loss of  cultural identity as their children are assimilated into the culture of  their adopted land.  In an ironic twist, the &quot;good&quot; son Samad  sends back to India to study his native Muslim religion becomes an atheist  and a truly annoying scientist, while the &quot;bad&quot; son remaining in  England becomes a militant Muslim, but no less annoying.<br />I felt that the  book dragged somewhat in the last hundred pages, as Smith seemed to become  obsessed with her characters' obsessions.  However, she did it with such  grace of phrase and love of language that it's a minor complaint.  This is  a densely plotted and populated novel that requires a commitment from the  reader.   I didn't really &quot;get&quot; the teeth metaphor that runs  through the entire book, however.  Still, I can't wait for her next novel.	2000-07-18
US	50594384	RMAGA11HHLK7D	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Pulp Fiction!	No matter how one disguises pulp fiction under layers of polished prose and art history, its true nature comes shining through.  So it is with HANNIBAL, a TALES OF THE CRYPT story masquerading as literature.  Harris  delivers a movie-ready tale with an eye to the bottom line, I'm sure.  In  this outing, Clarice Starling is suspended from the FBI, having been made  the scapecoat for a failed operation.  Meanwhile Dr Lecter is living abroad  in Florence and is so happy in his esthetic pursuits that he hardly bothers  to kill anyone except when really necessary.  Back in the States, Mason  Verger, a surviving victim of the good doctor (if life in an iron lung can  be called surviving), plans his revenge.  Verger was a young pedophile who  avoided prison by agreeing to be treated by Dr Lecter. REALLY bad choice!  <br />I did not like this book.  Not only did Harris betray his finest  character, Clarice Starling, he did it in the ugliest possible way.  I did  not like the fact that he gave Lecter a back story that trotted out the  over-used &quot;abuse excuse&quot; to explain the monster he became.  I  liked him much better as a straight up psycho.  As for Mason Verger, you  can find him or his ilk in every banned comic book from the 40s and 50s.   Jodie Foster passed on the upcoming movie.  Class always tells.	2000-07-14
US	50594384	R1NTAONULALWNN	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Sad and Dark Story	Merci Rayburn returns in this follow up to THE BLUE HOUR.  Still devastated and emotionally frozen after the shooting by a sociopath of her lover and father of her child,  Merci is trying to put her life together.   She has a semi-promising relationship with another detective, Mike McNally,  until the investigation of the shooting death of a high end call girl seems  to implicate him in her murder.  Merci has also been given a cold case to  clear--the thirty year old shooting of another prostitute.  The two cases  converge after Merci receives anonomous tips leading to possible police  involvement in 1969 in the beating of a Mexican orange grower in order to  obtain his land for the city. Merci struggles with her conscience and her  sense of duty, as she tries desperately not to believe her lover could be  guilty, even as evidence piles up to prove otherwise.  This is a dark, sad  novel that really kept me guessing till the end.  Its theme seems to be  that the past is never done with us, even when we believe we have left it  behind.  It also shows the damage that can be done when we don't do the  right thing.  And the damage that can be done when we do.  It's not a happy  book, but it's a good one.	2000-07-05
US	50594384	R6C3ESPIMNRR0	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Plum Funny!	Janet Evanovich is a comic novelist disguised in mystery writer's clothes.  She's out to do for New Jersey what Carl Hiassen has done for South Florida, and succeeds remarkably well.  Not much of a plot here, but it's  not really needed.  Stephanie Plum, the world's most inept bounty hunter,  is on the trail of a bail jumping nut case who has stolen guns from the  army to sell to Central America.  She is joined by a cast of endearingly  screwy friends and relatives.  Funeral home groupie, Grandma Mazur, is a  great character.  She does a hilarious &quot;Dirty Harriet&quot; imitation  as she comes to Stephanie's aid in a face-off with the villian.  Stray body  parts abound.  Sexual tension is rampant. Fashion is victimized.  If you  like a good laugh along with your mystery, this is for you.  If you prefer  your crime fighters to play it straight, you might want to look elsewhere.	2000-07-02
US	50594384	RERN46UJ248VC	0380722798	587236396	Goodnight, Irene	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Knockout Debut!	If my review prompts just one person to check out this new series, I will be happy indeed. In this first book, Irene Kelly goes back to her old job as reporter after the bombing murder of O'Connor, her best friend and  former mentor at the newspaper.  It seems that O'Connor had been about to  make a breakthrough on a thirty-five year old case of an unidentified  murder victim.  The victim was a young, pregnant woman.  Her hands and feet  had been cut off and her face smashed to prevent identification.  When  Irene and Frank Harriman of the Las Piernas police become involved in the  case, bodies start piling up too fast to keep count. Ms Burke's theme seems  to be that past misdeeds will always come back to haunt us.  This is a  theme that also echoes through her work in later books. If you're a mystery  fan, you definitely should check out this new series.  It's well written,  with fine character development, and intelligent plotting.  I highly  recommend it.	2000-06-30
US	50594384	RFVT0LXKPQ08H	0061044393	193566702	Hocus	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another Winner from Jan Burke	Almost every professional reviewer puts Jan Burke in a box with other female mystery writers.  We see her compared with Grafton, Cornwell, and Paretsky, etc.  Well, enough of that!  This &quot;female mystery  writer&quot; can go toe to toe with the boys anytime.  She proves it again  with &quot;Hocus&quot;.  As with most of her other novels, Burke again uses  the theme of tragedies in the past impacting on lives in the present.  In  this book Irene Kelly's husband, Frank, is taken hostage by two young men  he had rescued ten years ago.  Their fathers had been killed and they had  been left to die in an abandoned warehouse.  They believe that a corrupt  policeman was involved and are using Frank as a bargaining tool to obtain  his name.  Burke creates sympathy for the two villians.  We feel real pity  for them because she has shown us how they became the damaged creatures  they are now. Frank and Irene are very likeable characters simply because  they seem like normal people.  They have a loving marriage, two great dogs  and a 20lb cat, wonderful friends and neighbors, and jobs they go to every  day.  This series just keeps getting better and better.  Burke deserves to  be compared with Robert Parker, Dennis Lehane, and Robert Crais.  She  definitely can play with the big boys.	2000-06-26
US	50594384	RO91OW1SZKSJK	0684855518	91466535	Bones: An Irene Kelly Mystery	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Bones by Jan Burke	I just recently discovered the Irene Kelly series, and am quickly becoming one of Jan Burke's devoted fans.  This book is a suspense filled, spine-tingling read.  Just don't read it late at night when you're home  alone.  Ms. Burke has created a memorable, charismatic serial killer in  Nick Parrish, who is as devoted to his work as Hannibal Lecter.  Irene  Kelly becomes the focus of his attentions after he engineers a horrific  escape from his captors in a scene of unbelievable carnage.  Kelly is a  reporter married to a cop, which causes many complications in her life.   She's a remarkably likable, well rounded protagonist who has a strong  marriage, good friends and lovable pets.  Burke's portrayal of the cadaver  locating dog, Bingle, is worth the price of the book.  She's a fine writer  who has created believable characters and has made me care about them.	2000-06-21
US	50594384	R5RIOIJ2F7Z2J	0385495838	487267340	L.A. Requiem	Books	4	0	0	N	N	L.A. Requiem: A Dark Story	Wow!  At last the back story on Joe Pike, Elvis Cole's strong, silent and very dangerous partner.  This book is much darker and more serious than Crais' other Cole mysteries, which tend to be a little flip and wise  cracking.  I like this style better.  Cole and Pike are asked by the  elderly, infirm Frank Garcia to look into the disappearance of his  daughter, Karen.  Joe Pike and Karen were romantically involved years ago,  so of course they accept the assignment.  What seemed to be a  straightforward missing persons investigation quickly morphs into a serial  killer hunt, possible police corruption, and further complications to  Cole's love life.  This book introduces John Chen, the young criminalist  who reappears in DEMOLITION ANGEL.  It also flashes back to Joe Pike's  early years and shows us how he evolved into the mysterious man he has  become.  Cole is as successful  in his portrayal of modern L.A. as James  Ellroy has been in evoking the L.A. of the 40's and 50's.  A definite  winner.	2000-06-20
US	50594384	R13EYNY350BJU	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	9	11	N	Y	Dark Angel Indeed	Robert Crais' writing is becoming darker.  The early Elvis Cole books were rather flip and breezy, but this one is a dark story indeed.  In a departure from the Cole series, Crais has given us Carol Starkey, an ex  bomb squad tech who has been reassigned to the Criminal Conspiracy Section  of the LAPD.  Starkey has been maimed in body and mind by the bomb blast  that also killed her lover, another bomb squad tech.  Though this happened  three years ago, Starkey is still living on gin and Tagamet and reliving  the incident every night in her dreams.  When a bomb technician is killed  what seemed to be a routine bomb disarmament, Starkey is assigned to the  case. Starkey and an ATF agent believe the bomb is the work of a notorious  serial bomber who calls himself Mr. Red.  Their investigation leads to some  frightening Web sites and to interviews with  people who derive pleasure  from seeing things explode.  When they make contact with Mr. Red, he claims  that the bomber they seek is a copycat who may just be one of their own. A  great suspenseful read.  I finished it in one day.  You may not find  Starkey likeable, but she is altogether admirable in her tenacity to solve  this crime and to reclaim her life.	2000-06-20
US	50594384	RGAPS7YW26IML	039914613X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Easy Prey  not an Easy Read	When internationally famous supermodel Alie'e is murdered along with another woman at a party attended by the &quot;beautiful people&quot; of the Twin Cities, it ignites a media firestorm.  Lucas Davenport and his  crew of usual sidekicks are frustrated as suspects begin to drop like  flies.  You'll need a pencil and paper to keep track of the story threads  and bad guys in this novel. Lucas is also juggling relationships with three  women, which further complicates matters.  As always, Sanford's writing is  impeccable.  However, he does not give the reader a fair shot at guessing  who the murderer turns out to be. I was truly annoyed at the silly finale.   I know it's fashionable to bash the media barracudas, hungry for another  celebrity tragedy to feed on, but this was extremely contrived and just did  not play out as believable. The series seems to be tiring and going for the  easy action movie type scenarios, complete with car chases, shoot-outs and  bodies dropping (sometimes literally) all over the place.  Not up to the  usual &quot;Prey&quot; standards.	2000-06-16
US	50594384	R3GG0RD8J7NPHF	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A Rip-Roaring Read	Quadriplegic criminologist, Lincoln Rhyme, is back in a can't-put-it-down story with more twists than a slinky toy.  Seems Lincoln, in North Carolina to undergo a highly experimental and risky surgical procedure that might  give him more mobility, is talked into assisting the locals in finding a  troubled, insect loving teen aged boy who killed another teenager and  kidnapped two women.  The teen, dubbed &quot;Insect Boy&quot; by the folks  who live in his small town, has been wonderfully depicted by Deaver.  The  insect lore is quite fascinating, as are the forensic deductions made by  Rhyme from his observations of trace physical evidence taken from the  primary and secondary crime scenes.  I liked Deaver's portrayal of the  women in the story as strong and resourseful, rather than helpless victims.   He's very good at developing characters the reader can understand and  emphathize with.  And the plot is a roller coaster ride of action and  suspense.  Just when it seems over, it heats up again, and takes off on a  new tangent.  I have only one complaint, and that is that the locals are  portrayed just a little too red-necky for my taste.  Otherwise it's a fine  thriller that is guaranteed to keep you reading.	2000-06-08
US	50594384	R2S8XUT4UGF5OQ	044022179X	710984646	Dirty White Boys	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Thriller	A terrific follow-up to Point of Impact.  This book is that rare thing, a  character-driven thriller. The good guys have serious flaws and the bad  guys have redeeming qualities.  Just as in life we are not wholly good or  evil, so it is in this book. <br />Three white trash convicts break out of  jail and rampage across Oklahoma.  Trooper Bud Pewtie has the bad luck to  encounter them on a routine call to check on a car registration.  He  survives to fight again.  Twice!!  Bud who is a married man with children,  is involved with a young woman who is married to his partner. Lamar Pye,  the leader of the outlaws, is devoted to his mentally and physically  challanged cousin, Odell, who escaped with him from prison, along with  Richard, a meek artist from a prominent family who is taken along because  Lamar admires his ability to draw lions. Lions represent Lamar's vision of  himself as conqueror and king.<br />This is a fast-paced, well written  thriller.  I consider it as good as its predecessor, Point of Impact, and  that is high praise indeed.	2000-05-01
US	50594384	R2NZJ8OODFMEZG	044022313X	399753192	Black Light (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fine Ending to the Trilogy	Black Light completes the Bob Lee Swagger trilogy which began with Point of Impact, followed by Dirty White Boys.  Hunter knows his guns and his characters.  The dialogue seems true to place and time, and race relations as they existed in 1955 Arkansas have been portrayed in the context of the  time.  This book tells the story of Bob Lee's father, Earl, and his death  during a gunfight with two young fugitives.  The story shifts from 1955,  when Earl was shot, to the present as Bob Lee and a young writer try to  ferret out the mysteries surrounding Earl's death.  They are assisted by  Sam, the eighty-six year old lawyer who also appeared in Point of Impact.  Sam is refusing to go gently into old age, and struggles mightly with bouts  of forgetfullness. <br />I love Stephen Hunter, and had this been written by a  lesser writer I would have been very impressed.  Since it WAS written by  Hunter, I have to say that I thought it was not quite up to the quality of  the first two books in the trilogy.  It seemed more hastily written and  errors such as aging a character only one year in twenty-seven months were  distracting to me.  Dirty White Boys is still my favorite, but this is a  worthy conclusion to the Swagger trilogy.	2000-04-30
US	50594384	R17VKBAGVP8AW2	0312242298	528597475	Panic Snap: A Novel	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Once and Again?	Essentially the same book as &quot;Topping from Below&quot;.  This update of the standard Gothic novel throws in a lot of S&amp;M and a helping of bestiality.  I would characterize it as &quot;Nancy Drew meets the Marquis de Sade&quot;.  The mystery was not particularly mysterious, the sex not  particularly shocking and the characters not particularly likeable.  Thing  is, this author writes pretty well.  Her prose flows smoothly and does not  feel stilted or clumsy.  I am assuming that, since her author photographs  on the book jackets are obscured by shadow,  she is using a pen name.   Laura, whoever you are, give us a better book.  Or have you already done so  under another name?	2000-04-23
US	50594384	R3TEKLYQ19LLCC	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	American Tragedy	Phillip Roth has written a follow-up to &quot;Sabbath's Theater&quot;.  This time the protagonist is the &quot;anti-Sabbath&quot;.  &quot;Swede&quot; Levov is a man who just wants his share of the American  Dream.  He is a Jew who looks like the Aryan ideal, a sports hero in  school, a successful businesman who marries an all-American beauty queen  and lives in a perfect house in the exurbs.  As his carefully crafted life  smashes headlong into the radicalism of the 60's, and his daughter commits  an unspeakable act, Swede is left to wonder how he could have done  everything right and had it all go horribly wrong.<br />This book is way up  there on my list of depressing novels.  You're not going to feel good after  reading it, but the book will stay in your mind for a long, long time.   Swede's trials rival those of Job.  They are truly biblical in their scope.   Swede hasn't the vitality, juice and life-force of Roth's Sabbath. Unlike  Sabbath, Swede lived by the rules and the rules let him down.  A book you  won't soon forget.	2000-04-12
US	50594384	R2FD8Q9DQ9DQ4O	0684864967	389232995	Slab Rat: A Novel	Books	2	2	7	N	Y	Slab Rats	I've never been to NYC or worked at a magazine, so maybe I'm not qualified to review this book.  That being said, I'm going to take a shot anyway. I picked this book up right after reading American Psycho and I'm sure that has colored my thinking.  I could not work up an interest in any more  self-absorbed, murderous young New Yorkers.  Heller has talent, that's certain,  but he's bound to be compared to his father and suffer from said  comparison.  This is not Catch 23.  Too bad.	2000-04-03
US	50594384	RISYPOZ00B047	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Thriller Yet!	This is a great book!  The characters are well drawn and theplot is seamless and complicated.  There's a lot of ordnance info thatyou fellas will love and that even I thought interesting. (Not fascinating, just interesting). I generally avoid these conspiracy thrillers like Ebola Fever, but a friend told me this one was exceptional and he was right.  Couldn't put it down.  Come on, girls, give it a chance!  It elevates the thriller genre into literature just as James Lee Burke takes the detective yarn to a higher plane.	2000-04-03
US	50594384	R3MFXUHS1JH8H4	0312969198	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Cold Day in Paradise	I thought the character development was terrific, the locale believable and the writing skilled.  The only problem I had was with the plot.  I did not find the instant animosity of the chief of police credible.  I also was  able to correctly guess what had happened to Edgar.  But I'm a sucker for  great characters and look forward to this author's next book.	2000-03-28
US	50594384	R34CDIX6PGG8JJ	0451525256	834895535	The Ox-Bow Incident (Signet Classics)	Books	3	20	23	N	Y	The Ox Bow Incident	This is a study in mob violence.  It is definitely slow starting and preachy in its first 100 pages. It demonstrates how a charismatic leader who is significantly above most of the gathered cowboys and townsfolk in  social status, can override the voices of reason and turn ordinary people  into a lynch mob. It plays on the distrust of the law (see the OJ trial for  a modern example) common to everyday folk in the West of 1885.  I wish  there had been more character development.  One knows little about any of  these people, including the victims.  However, it provides a valuable  insight into the ease with which a crowd can be turned into a mob, and how  hard it is for an individual to speak up against a mob. Definitely a  worthwhile book to read.	2000-02-19
US	50594384	R1JNAWRJEGB48H	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	0	0	N	N	American Psycho	Am I the only one who found this book funny? It describes the trendy world of the greedy, consumer oriented '80s, where everyone knew exactly what you were wearing, but never quite knew your name. Where the restaurant of the moment was where one had to dine on designer food, and be seen in the most expensive designer fashions. When nothing was enough and nothing satisfied, sometimes sadistic torture and horrific murder was the only way young, rich and successful Patrick Bateman could pacify his inner demons. It's up to the reader to decide whether Patrick is fantasizing the killings, or really committing them.  One has to wonder who is cleaning the apartment after one of his rampages, if they are real.  <br />It's not a pretty read, but the rampant materialism of its shallow characters is a hoot. Although the constant litany of brand names and designer labels gets old pretty fast. The scene in the restaurant du jour where Patrick and his friends(? ) try to one-up each other with the most expensive business cards is a gem. Read it, but don't take it too seriously.	2000-02-17
US	50594384	R37S7C7LBXFI7L	0451524217	645845418	McTeague	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	McTeague  by Frank Norris	Although this book was published 100 years ago, it rivited my attention as no modern author has recently done.  The characters are broadly drawn, and are certainly flawed people, however I was able to enter this story  completely.  I felt the love pangs of the elderly couple, pitied Maria  Macapa, and hoped that Trina and Mac would somehow persevere in spite of  Marcus' treachery.  I have not been able to get their stories out of my  head.  I saw Eric Von Stroheim's movie &quot;Greed&quot; which translated  this book to the silent screen.  It's also a marvel!	2000-01-08
US	50594384	R2L59O5A4PHK0L	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	1	1	N	N	False Memory by Dean Koontz	This man has a wonderful imagination.  Mr. K., you have made me positively lust for a Golden just like Valet!  This is no mean feat, since I have four cats.  This being said, I have to carp a little.  Please, no more space  filling similies! This device is annoying, detracts from great story lines,  and just seems like showing off all your considerable knowledge.  I loved  the people and cared about their fates.  I also appreciate the amount of  research that went into this book.  My only complaint is the amount of  unnessary filler. Less is more!	2000-01-08
US	50594384	R11K9VWKFOCLA1	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Poisonwood Bible by Barbara Kingsolver	I loved this book!  I was an adult during the time of Patrice Lumumba.  I am so ashamed that it took this work of fiction to awaken me to Congo (Zaire) history.  Any book that inspires me to read more about its subject  has done its job and more.  I loved the five women who narrated their  stories and loathed their religious fanatic husband and father.  I was awed  by the skill and wit it took for the  author to create Adah.  Remarkable.   This is quite a departure for Kingsolver, who usually writes about the  American Southwest.  Brava!	2000-01-08
