US	50591946	R3DUPTA820NHVS	0321130073	514034583	HTML for the World Wide Web with XHTML and CSS, Fifth Edition	Books	5	11	11	N	N	It's Absolutely One Of The Best HTML Guides!	There are millions of Websites up and running on the Internet today. Although they vary significantly in their content, design, and use of technology, they all have one thing in common - they are dependent upon programming languages such as HTML to communicate with viewers. It's the HTML &quot;coding&quot; that presents text, graphics, photographs, sounds, video, and other programming options. A good understanding of HTML is necessary to produce an operational and effective online presence.<br />     Elizabeth Castro has written HTML for the World Wide Web to provide Website designers of all skill levels with the latest ground-breaking HTML, XHTML, and Style Sheet tags. She presents a variety of sample scripts and illustrations to assist designers to create dynamic Websites. Whether the designer uses a commercially available HTML editor or works from scratch, this book will provide new and exciting programming options that can be put to immediate use!<br />     The book is written in a clean, concise, and straightforward manner, cutting through the mountains of writing that weigh down most other books. After providing some brief Website design tips, Castro moves to the heart of the book, programming tags. Available programming tags are clearly presented and discussed, and accompanied by sample scripts and illustrations of their actual use on the same page. No need for page flipping here to see what each tag can accomplish.<br />     Are you interested in putting some exciting programming features to work? Elizabeth Castro suggests that beginners read through the entire book and follow strict HTML guidelines when at all possible. Although her book is intended to be a strict HTML resource tool, it can also serve as a Website design guide that will offer quick design solutions to meet the growing demands of online publishing for a variety of users.<br />     Castro recommends that Websites be designed simply, fast-loading, and accessible to those using a variety of browsers, platforms, and monitor settings. According to Castro universality is key. Her pet peeves are overpowering backgrounds and unwanted, unsolicited, self-loading obnoxious sounds! A convenient fold-out color chart at the back of the book identifies a selection of available Website colors. Other charts include listings of tags, special characters, and helpful Web development tools.<br />     This is a top-rated book. Keep it within easy reach of your computer while designing Websites. It's extremely easy to read and thumb through to find the tag scripting and other information you need when you need it. Feel free to highlight text on pages, to fold the corners, and to insert bookmarks. Have it on hand. It's absolutely one of the best HTML guides available. Highly recommended!	2002-12-27
US	50591946	R20E4JI7STK67Y	0471055891	94508024	Hack Attacks Encyclopedia: A Complete History of Hacks, Cracks, Phreaks, and Spies Over Time	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Gain Insight of the Mindset of Hackers, Crackers, Phreakers!	The widespread availability of computers and access to telephone and Internet technologies has contributed to the sharp rise in the number of people going online over the years. Unfortunately, many of these people found their way online through less-than-honest means, and once online, they would set out to perform a great deal of mischief and damage to various computers and computer information systems.<br />Hack Attacks Encyclopedia edited by John Chirillo serves as the ultimate source for collected information on the history of hacking, cracking, and phreaking. The book features nearly 2,000 text and HTML document extracts that includes news articles, online postings, and other snippets of insightful information. Some of the accounts are startling. Readers will quickly pick up just how clever some hackers, crackers, and phreakers really are. The following snippet exemplifies available talent in Northern America:<br />\\"Silver Spy has everything going for him - comfortable surroundings, a father who is an engineer. He ranks in the top 3 percent of his high-school class. His SAT scores for college admission totaled 1,400 of a possible 1,600. He wants to attend Stanford or the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. But in the eyes of the phone companies he is a thief, and in the eyes of the law he's a criminal. Such is the portrait of this 17-year-old computer \\"hacker\\" and \\"phone phreaker\\" who lives about 20 miles outside Boston. He spoke with U.S. News & World report on the condition that neither his real name nor home town be revealed.\\"<br />The Hack Attack Encyclopedia is broken up into major sections by decade - the 70's, the 80's, the 90's, the Millennium, and a special historical synopsis. From beginning to end, readers will be able to follow the history of mischievous behavior. It will be an eye-opening experience for anyone to follow the advancements made in communications technologies and how they can be easily circumvented and otherwise compromised to carryout further activities. Although some of the technologies disclosed in the book are outdated and have been replaced, readers will still gain helpful insight of the mindset of hackers, crackers, and phreakers operating today. They are a force to be taken very seriously.<br />An extensive 217-page glossary of terms will enlighten readers about the slang talk used in the hacking, cracking, and phreaking communities. As a special bonus, the CD accompanying the book features full-length editions of the article and snippet extracts included in the book, hundreds of computing and Internet exploits, and a sampling of useful utility programs.<br />Hacking, cracking, phreaking, and virus infection still poses problems for many people today. This book will open the eyes of many people - including business people, IT managers, and law enforcement officials. It will serve as an excellent starting point for taking necessary corrective action to prevent further mischief and harm caused to personal and company computer systems. I can't wait to see an updated edition. Highly recommended reading.	2002-10-18
US	50591946	R2SCMIWUL1K808	0201761769	194610460	Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Hacking - Readers Are Shown How It's Done!	During the last several years we have seen a sharp rise in the number of methods employed to hack into computer systems worldwide. The frequency of such attacks is alarming and the consequences are staggering. Clever minds, basic computer and programming skills, and knowledge of system exploits coupled with the intent to cause harm of one kind or another is a hard combination to beat.<br />     Stuart McClure, Saumil Shah, and Shreeraj Shah have written Web Hacking: Attacks and Defense to provide solid insight into the very strategies involved to successfully hack into vulnerable computer systems. This book features extensive coverage of popular and lesser known exploits that allows successful hacking to take place. Readers will read up on them, they can actually challenge them - hopefully against their own systems, and they can prepare their own strategies to counter possible future hacking attempts against their own systems.<br />     I was truly amazed as I read one system exploit after another - it seemed so easy for people to go hacking these days. Case studies were intriguing - Website defacement, intercepting and deleting e-mail messages, determining passwords, stealing identities, shopping cart shoplifting, credit card fraud, and more. I easily concluded that just about anyone with basic programming skills could have a serious go at hacking into a computer system if armed with the information provided in this book.<br />     The authors walk readers through actual hacking processes using programming code lines, screen shots, graphical diagram analysis, and they discuss in plain English how hacking attempts and other forms of mischief takes place. In short - readers are put in the hacker's seat and shown how to do it. Readers are also introduced to a number of popular hacking tools used to apply the hacking craft - username and password crackers, Web proxies, cookie programs, and other tools used to insert and extract useful information.<br />     The intention of the book is clear - to create serious awareness of hacking threats and to offer readers - individuals, IT department professionals, Web developers, business leaders, and other concerned parties, the information they need to adequately safeguard their systems and client data. They will learn how various servers, server software, and program languages work and how best to deploy them for optimum security. Although no computer system may be 100% hack-proof, taking serious precautions and putting into use the countermeasures and advice provided in this book will reduce the likelihood of major intrusion attempts.<br />     Although the contents of this book appears overwhelming at times, readers should take heart in knowing that they are learning about the serious nature of hacking and criminal activity associated with it. Some hackers are people with easily obtained computer tools who are out to prove their skills while others want to steal or exact revenge. Regardless of their skill levels and intentions, they pose serious threats to a lot of people. The content of this book is essential reading. There's much to be gained by reading and applying it to current Web communication and commerce strategies. It's highly recommended.	2002-09-20
US	50591946	R3NOYYH1HW2IC0	073571102X	845467308	Homepage Usability: 50 Websites Deconstructed	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Breaks New Ground in Critiquing Website Designing	Homepage Usability: 50 Websites Deconstructed by Jakob Nielsen and Marie Tahir, breaks new ground in the art and science of critiquing Website design. This full-color book features assessments of 50 popular corporate Website home pages and provides significant insight for developing sharp eyes and minds for objectively evaluating Website design efforts. Website home pages featured in the book includes Amazon, Boeing, FedEx, Gateway, General Motors, IBM, Microsoft, Ticket Master, USA Today, and Wal-Mart.<br />     As the authors point out in the book, and rightfully so, company home pages - and those of others - must advance and protect their public image. Any inconsistencies and weaknesses can have a negative impact on the way companies and other people are perceived by the public. Trust and reputation are important commodities to convey. And it starts with the home page.<br />     The book offers readers many important Website design learning experiences. They will learn to develop keen awareness for communicating Website purpose through the effective use of Web page space, by using particular features when most appropriate, understanding and applying general layout design principles, developing clear and precise written content, designing and effectively placing graphics, and incorporating purposeful navigation and linking. Readers will also pick up on the marketing and promotion strategies that are heavily dependent upon these and other important design considerations.<br />     The authors survey the use of specific Website design features, they set forth certain criteria for effective Website design, and offer readers valuable constructive criticism throughout the book that will encourage them to enhance their own Website design efforts. Although some comments in the book appear to be picky, they do make good sense. We should always be assessing our own Website design strategies and sometimes the best way to learn is by objectively analyzing the work of others.<br />     We owe it ourselves and to others to be aware of the world around us and to design Websites that are totally relevant and effective in conveying their intended messages. This book will contribute to our understanding of human nature and public response to the Web as a leading communications medium. It will also generate additional interest and enthusiasm for designing Websites. There are many exciting lessons to learn from it. The instruction is clear, the color graphics are great, and the layout is spacious, making it an excellent workshop and classroom course book.	2002-08-19
US	50591946	R2QMZRLUYH813Y	0910965579	481018821	Net Crimes & Misdemeanors: Outmaneuvering the Spammers, Swindlers, and Stalkers Who Are Targeting You Online	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Book is Timely, Gripping, and Compelling.	The Internet has opened up many doors of opportunity for people to communicate with one another and to share lots of information. The Internet has also broken down many walls of seclusion that once shielded us from other people. Unfortunately, some of the same social ills commonplace in society today - such as stalking, harassment, scamming, and identity theft, have found fresh life and new victims online - sometimes with devastating results - including rape and murder.<br />     Jayne Hitchcock wrote Net Crimes & Misdemeanors to recount her own horror story and to offer readers important information that will help them prevent - or at least minimize - the likelihood that they themselves and others will encounter the same mistreatment at the hands of other people. Hitchcock was herself the victim of both online and off line stalking and harassment. This book spells it out - fraudulent newsgroup postings, harassing e-mails, spamming, phone calls, identity theft, and other criminal activity. She experienced a severely challenging period of time in her own life. Her personal account is most gripping.<br />     After discussing her own experiences, Hitchcock goes on to discuss these and other crimes and mischievous activities at length that threaten the welfare of people online - fraudulent postings, e-mail harassment, invasion of privacy, spamming, scamming, identity theft, auction frauds, adoption frauds, banking and shopping concerns, inappropriate information gathering techniques, threats to child safety, and so on. Readers are provided with stunning accounts of other people who faced various forms of online harassment and scamming. We read about how they responded to these threats, how their lives were changed, and how we can take action to avoid much of these same problems ourselves.<br />     The strengths of the book includes the sharing of well-planned strategies, helpful checklists that encourage and nurture responsible behavior, a variety of helpful online resources, and much creative advice on how to cope with many real-life situations. For instance, readers will learn how to tweak Internet software programs for maximum protection, how to safely communicate with other people online, how to deal with problematic people they may encounter, how to locate and notify local, state, and federal agencies in regards to computer and Internet criminal activity, and how we can learn to best help one another.<br />     Jayne Hitchcock distinguishes herself as a real cybercrime expert. Her book will motivate people to sit up and take notice of what's going on around them and to help them to respond appropriately to the threats that all people face online. Online stalking, harassment, and other crimes are not laughing matters and they should never be taken lightly. In this one book Jayne Hitchcock provides all the reasons why everyone should take such threats more seriously.<br />     The book is ideally suited for a variety of workshops, seminars, and community awareness events. Government agencies, local law enforcement agencies, college campus officials, women's service groups, and child protection organizations will greatly benefit from the detailed information provided. The book is timely, gripping, and compelling. It's essential reading and highly recommended.	2002-08-17
US	50591946	R7N3WGWL0R7LU	0735524874	891239255	The Legal Writing Handbook: Analysis, Research, and Writing (Legal Research and Writing)	Books	5	39	44	N	N	An Immense Help to Any Lawyer and Law Student!	Oates, Enquist, and Kunsch have published the third edition of The Legal Writing Handbook, one of the most comprehensive legal writing books available today. This book speaks powerfully about the entire legal writing process. There is a definite art and science to crafting legal documents and this book provides the detailed instruction necessary for legal professionals and law students to produce truly outstanding work.<br />     Readers are briefly introduced to the American legal system in terms of government and court history, responsibilities, accountability, and the nature of both common and enacted laws. Then comes the real meat - performing legal research and analysis, making use of available printed and online resources, learning sound legal grammar, and instruction for crafting a variety of professional legal documents that lawyers write most often - legal advice memos, client letters, motion briefs, and appellate briefs.<br />     The book is very helpful in terms of crafting legal documents. Readers will quickly pick up on how to select the right words and how to effectively structure their thoughts. Like the work of a sculptor or clay modeler, legal documents should be crafted in such a way as to convey the right message to the right people. Through a variety of gripping written examples the reader will learn just how important it is to devote quality time and to give serious thought to the legal writing process.<br />     The book reveals in no uncertain terms that there are definite strategies involved in crafting legal documents. Whether one is an attorney for a plaintiff or defendant, a law enforcement officer, or prosecutor, the outcome of court cases can hinge on one's writing skills. One revelation from the book that will hit readers hard is that clever legal document writers can act unethically by crafting their legal documents in such a way as to distort the truth to get guilty people off. Likewise, there is the possibility of trying to convicttotally innocent people. An innocent person can be made to appear quite guilty of a crime by cleverly crafting such documents. Certain facts can be emphasized or de-emphasized, mis-truths can be implied through the clever use of wording and structuring, and so on, to cast particular people in poor light. Readers will find utterly amazing - and perhaps a bit frightening - how opposing parties can take the same set of facts and circumstances and craft two entirely different perspectives involving the same case matter!<br />     Readers are also introduced to the many types of helpful and essential legal research resources available to them - online court decisions and statues, online information brokering services, law dictionaries and encyclopedias, law reviews, and general practice books - all of which will greatly contribute to the legal writing process.<br />     This book will be of immense help to any lawyer and law student desiring to develop their legal writing skills - or to polish up their existing ones. They will be introduced to a number of essential research and writing resources, they will be exposed to expert writing instruction and numerous legal documents, and they learn how to best represent their clients in legal matters. This is must reading for lawyers, law school students, and other legal professionals!	2002-07-09
US	50591946	R6Z84DZQZUSVU	0072192569	777387746	HTML Virtual Classroom	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Robert Fuller Delivers Superb HTML Instruction!	Plenty of good books have been written to help people &quot;code their own&quot; HTML (HyperText Markup Language) Web pages. HTML Virtual Classroom by Robert Fuller impresses me as being one of the easiest HTML books to learn from, that I've seen, in a long time.<br />The author surveys the functionality and use of the more common HTML tags - including line and paragraph breaks, text attributes, image attributes, text and image alignments, background coloring, fonts, forms, frames, tables, layers, cascading style sheets, and hyperlinking. He also devotes quality time to help his readers fully develop their Websites - not just teaching them &quot;the coding&quot; part. He provides detailed instruction for smartly working with text, images, colors, Web browsers, story boarding, testing, and uploading created Web pages.  For instance, readers are encouraged to sketch out their Website design ideas - on computers, graph paper, index cards, or napkins. Cute, clever, and outstanding advice!<br />The book is accompanied by a multimedia CD containing a number of video lessons in both the Windows and QuickTime file formats. They are definitely designed for enhancing the learning process. Lesson content is delivered at a comfortable pace and is clearly presented. As author Robert Fuller can be seen speaking to his students the instructional content of his book comes to life on the screen. Readers can freely move back and forth between the book and the video presentations to learn at their individual paces. Furthermore, the video lessons can be played back and backed up as often as necessary to drive the instruction content home. Depending upon individual computer system specifications, some readers may prefer to copy the lesson files to their computer hard drives for smoother and more convenient viewing!<br />HTML still continues to serve as the foundation of Website design. Although other markup languages have arrived on the scene that offer their own advantages, there is still great demand for HTML programming skills for creating business Websites. Robert Fuller delivers superb instruction. This book is highly recommended for classroom, workshop, small business, and organizational use. I can't wait to get my hands on his Dreamweaver book!	2002-06-09
US	50591946	R18YVWTPYP48CS	0910965587	178353942	Super Searcher, Author, Scribe: Successful Writers Share Their Internet Research Secrets (Super Searchers series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Will Greatly Contribute to Online Researching Endeavors!	The Internet has become an ever-growing depository of information on every imaginable topic. Businesses, researchers, reporters, investigators, students, authors, shoppers, and Internet enthusiasts of all kinds make use of this information resource on a daily basis. Do they make the best use of it? Online researching is a discipline and there is a definite art and science for doing it right!<br />     Loraine Page and Reva Basch have produced an outstanding collection of online researching experiences. Super Searcher, Author, Scribe features the experiences and advice of fourteen professional writers - a variety of authors, researchers, and Internet devotees who have proven track records. They offer quite different but equally successful approaches to using the Internet to gather information.<br />     In a convenient question and answer format these writers discuss topics such as what their favorite search engines are - and why, what their favorite online information sources are, sorting through online information, how the Internet has helped their professional writing careers, the use of personal Websites, what kind of computer hardware and software they use, what kinds of online connectivity they have, and other general information. Additionally, they provide their own &quot;super searcher power tips&quot; for readers to pay particularly close attention to. An appendix lists cited Website URL's and other resources.<br />     Readers will find this book insightful. The varying research experiences and methods shared will greatly contribute to their own online researching endeavors. Readers will glean from the contents of the book and develop their own individual strategies, determining what specific approaches will work best for them, resulting in more efficient use of their own research time, effort, and resources. This book is excellent reading for small businesses, teachers, students, researchers, and of course - writers!	2002-04-18
US	50591946	R2RAPOKUHJ3HY3	0910965498	274279153	Electronic Democracy: Using the Internet to Transform American Politics	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It's Informative, Gripping, Thought-Provoking, Motivating!	The Internet has taken on many important roles in recent years as a powerful communications and information medium. Apart from online marketing of businesses, perhaps no other part of our lives has been more influenced by the Internet than that of discussing politics and spiritual matters and making our particular points of view seen and heard by others.<br /> Electronic Democracy (2nd Edition, 2002) written by Graeme Browning offers readers amazing insight of the powerful role that the Internet has played in transforming American politics. At no other time in American history have so many people been able to discuss issues that matter to them the most and actually been able to do something about changing the course of the American political landscape.<br /> Throughout the book readers are presented with actual events - names, dates, places, and circumstances that led other people to take action. Readers will learn about political parties, special interest groups, and common everyday folks who took action to express their points of view and to seek change. The book describes in vivid detail the roles that numerous Websites, discussion groups, and e-mail campaigns had in electing politicians, removing certain politicians from office, changing laws, and affecting other matters of public policy.<br /> The book serves as an excellent guide for becoming politically active in the American political scene - or for that matter, in any country around the world. Readers will learn how to mount their own grassroots campaigns - right from home. They will learn how to organize campaigns, raise funds, present issues, contact people, influence legislation, and to get the word out about their own particular causes - responsibly. They will also learn about the dark side of online activism - the abuses that have taken place to disrupt American culture. As they will read, dirty tricks are still very much a part of politics.<br /> This is one book I couldn't put down easily. It's highly informative, gripping, thought-provoking, and will surely motivate people of all backgrounds and persuasions to become more involved in shaping the direction America will head in. It's must reading for anyone desiring to become an agent of change in American society. This book will help you get started today!	2002-04-13
US	50591946	ROCWPPGT57VRC	0963022261	310025892	The Newsletter Editor's Handbook, 5th Edition: A Quick-Start Guide to News Writing, Interviewing,Copyright Law, Volunteers and Desktop Design	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Learn How To Create Better Newsletters!	Online newsletters have become big news in recent years. Companies large and small, for-profit and non-profit organizations, news services, religious ministries, and many special interest groups now produce their own online newsletters for distribution to their targeted audiences.<br />Newsletter Editor's Handbook by Arth, Ashmore, and Floyd (not a legal firm), is a quick guide to publishing effective online and printed newsletters. Readers will learn about writing for the Internet, news writing, conducting interviews, copyright laws, style guides, legal concerns, grammar, desktop publishing concepts, marketing, and how best to distribute their newsletters.<br />The book features plentiful information on gathering news and how best to publish it. Instruction about developing content stands out as one of the key benefits of the book. Readers will learn about the kinds of information that can be shared in newsletters - such as news, meeting information, feature stories, editorials, opinion columns, reports, biographical profiles, history, book reviews, letters to the editor, announcements, press releases, comics and cartoons, and promotional items.<br />Readers will develop a greater appreciation for the roles that newsletters, editors, and writers in general have in creating and sharing information. They will also learn how to write good content. This book would make a great addition to any writer's library. It would also make a excellent workshop course book for producing newsletters!	2002-04-12
US	50591946	R3RPF8YGEF5WQ2	0910965552	433325764	Internet Prophets: Enlightened E-Business Strategies for Every Budget	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Create A Profitable Online Business Presence!	Despite the downturn in the corporate business world, the Internet still exists as a means for enterprising people to market their business ideas to make a living. Opportunities are boundless and growing numbers of people continue to give the Internet a try. There are plenty of resources available to help them succeed.<br />Internet Prophets offers readers an excellent collection of business concepts, strategies, and instruction to help them start online businesses. The book features information about creating sound business plans, managing businesses - including money matters, creating effective Websites, marketing business Websites, online resources, and general business information that will make an impact on the way people do business - while being mindful of operating budgets!<br />Throughout the book readers are reminded about setting clear goals and objectives. Planning every stage of one's business is of paramount importance - the business plan, the Website, marketing, search engine strategies, and knowing what the competition is doing are all aspects of a business that demand close attention to detail and determination to carry out.<br />Most fascinating about the book - in my opinion - are the business strategies provided. Readers are exposed to some exciting and very practical ways to draw attention to themselves and to maintain professional and profitable business-client relationships. Strategies include establishing online communities, setting up auction services, creating portals, providing visitors access to information, joining e-marketplaces, adding interactive tools to Websites, hosting live online events at Websites, adding dynamically updated content to Websites, and thinking globally when planning the action.<br />The tone of the book is serious and the rewards for gleaning from it are enormous. The strategies are sound and the resources provided will put people in touch with the companies, products, and services they need to develop a meaningful online business presence that will produce positive results for them. The book is ideally suited for start-up business operations and those existing businesses that want to and probably should make the move to the Internet to promote themselves. Essential reading!	2002-04-12
US	50591946	R2VWB4AYCO2T7E	0072194057	882961363	PhotoImpact 7: The Official Guide	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Covers Many of the Features of PhotoImpact In Detail!	Ulead's PhotoImpact 7 allows users to easily create, capture, edit, and share a variety of graphic images. Michael Meadhra and Anthony Celeste have written PhotoImpact 7: The Official Guide to assist readers to make the most of this powerful image creating and editing program.<br />This comprehensive book describes in detail the many features found in PhotoImpact 7. Learning to use a new program can be frustrating for some people and others may require immediate comprehensive instruction that owner's manuals seldom provide. Michael Meadhra and Anthony Celeste have done a masterful job in bringing out the many features of PhotoImpact.<br />Readers will easily pick up on how to create new images and edit existing ones, how to apply special effects to text and graphic images, how to enhance photographs, importing images from scanners and digital cameras, creating animations with GIF Animator that ships with the program, designing Web pages from directly within the program, and creating image albums to store graphic images in.<br />A good amount of attention focuses on the use of PhotoImpact's pull-down menus, tool bars, and panels. Readers will learn how to quickly and effectively use them to open up images, to select areas, choose colors, crop images, create text and shapes, create pre-defined and user customizable text wrappings, apply type faces, colors, patterns, perform texture fills, deformations, add lighting effects, and to perform other program tasks.<br />PhotoImpact has come along way and has gained the respect of many people - including mine. This book will help readers gain a better appreciation of what PhotoImpact 7 has to offer them as an image creator and editor. The CD accompanying the book features a trial edition of PhotoImpact and includes some of the graphic images found in the book - including screen shots - in color!<br />PhotoImpact deserves our serious attention and so does this book. If you are a fan of PhotoImpact this book will further allowyour creative juices to flow - you won't be disappointed. If your are new to PhotoImpact then be prepared for detailed instruction that the owner's manual fails to offer!	2002-04-12
US	50591946	R3QKS8FC6EE500	0072193840	925391525	Hacker's Challenge : Test Your Incident Response Skills Using 20 Scenarios	Books	5	4	8	N	N	An Incredible Opportunity to Srutinize Actual Case Studies!	Along with advances in computer and Internet technologies we have also witnessed countless unlawful attempts to break into computer systems around the world with the intent to steal, damage, or otherwise compromise information.<br />Hacker's Challenge by Mike Schiffman offers readers an incredible opportunity to scrutinize actual case studies of intrusion attempts - those attempts to gain unauthorized entry into computers systems to cause deliberate harm or mischief.<br />Hacker's Challenge is broken up into two sections - 20 actual case studies with actual attack scenarios and log files (names and data have been changed for legal and confidentiality concerns), and corresponding solutions to them. Readers are challenged to read the case studies and determine for themselves how the attacks were made, what vulnerabilities were exploited, what harm, if any, had occurred, how to lesson the impact of future intrusions, and what possible remedies can be made to prevent future attacks altogether.<br />Readers will learn how to determine the levels of attacker technical abilities and sophistication used. The case studies cover a broad range of attacks - those perpetrated by \\"script kiddies\\" who use existing attack code made available on the Internet and using publicly known attack methods, clever and skilled attackers who use publicly known coding and write their own code, and extremely skilled attackers who use publicly known coding, who write their own code, and who take advantage of non-public exploits and cutting-edge technologies to accomplish their evil work.<br />Of further interest, the case studies and solutions presented in Hacker's Challenge will demonstrate how company officials and security consultant team members can effectively respond to different kinds of intrusion attempts. Their methods of discovery - much like police detective work, are fascinating, detailed, and very professional. Readers will follow along with them step-by-step to determine the order of events, to search log files and research events for clues, to think through issues for themselves, and arrive at their own conclusions. The solutions at the back of the book provide detailed answers, intrusion prevention measures, and a wealth of additional resources for further consideration.<br />An added benefit of this book is that readers will learn about the skills involved in this kind of detective work, such as knowing about software programs and operating systems, knowing their particular vulnerabilities and exploits, knowing programming languages, reading log files, piecing together details, searching computer systems, searching buildings, interviewing suspects and witnesses, consulting with computer security experts, and putting to use essential people skills to obtain helpful information.<br />Hacker's Challenge also presents readers with some valuable lessons to be learned - by learning from the mistakes of others. The case studies point out a number of system weaknesses that can be easily exploited to gain access to computer systems - including the keeping of system software default settings, using dictionary word passwords, failing to install the latest program versions, failing to install updates and security patches in a timely manner, failing to use anti-virus and intrusion detection programs, failing to use an appropriate firewall, failing to filter ports, failing to use appropriate encryption, failing to properly set radio strength - for wireless systems, and failing to either remove or disable unneeded programs and services on Web servers.<br />Hacking poses many problems for a lot of people. Consequences of someone breaking into a computer system can affect the lives of many people - embarrassing downtime, lost revenue, stock market reactions, unemployment, public health and safety. Vigilance is key here - keeping up on the latest vulnerabilities and exploits, using the latest software versions and patches, and incorporating other necessary security precautions. This book will greatly benefit any company or person involved in handling information technology issues. It's also ideally suited for classroom and workshop use!	2002-03-01
US	50591946	R1XSGJPWT8E81	0471128996	247261494	Your 24/7 Online Job Search Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the Best Online Job Search Books Available Today!	Looking for work is serious business that affects not only the lives of job seekers, but also the lives of many others around them. Need some hope and encouragement? Read on!<br />     Your 24/7 Online Job Search Guide by Lamont Wood offers most job seekers the opportunity to learn about the options available to them online. The book covers the major job finding Websites and many lesser-known ones that target specific industries. Additional instruction includes use of the Web, e-mail, newsgroups, search engines, how to compose and post resumes and cover letters, online manners, interviewing tips, and information about many very helpful online resources for job seekers to take advantage of.<br />Without a doubt, Monster.com has established themselves as the largest and most popular online marketplace for job seekers and employers to find each other. I still recall peering through a Chicago transit train window several years ago and viewing a blimp hovering over Wrigley Field with &quot;Monster.com&quot; in orange lettering. What an impact the sight made. Lamont Wood devotes an entire chapter and other commentary to this outstanding service. His instruction is concise, accurate, readable, and easily understandable. Anyone not familiar with Monster.com will be able to find their way around the service with very little trouble. Readers will learn how to compose and post their own resumes, search for jobs, and obtain job training and other related services.<br />Not to be left out are other services that make their own contributions to the job finding landscape as well - including CareerBuilder.com, Dice.com, HeadHunter.net, HotJobs.com, JobsOnline.com, and Vault.com. Other Websites featured are listed by category in areas such as academia, banking, college students and recent graduates, consulting, engineering, finance, freelancing, general, information technology, internships, law, medical, sales and marketing, science, and temping. Readers will learn about the wealthof articles, tips, and instruction these Websites have to offer them.<br />While the Internet has opened up many real opportunities to match prospective employees with employers, it has also opened up opportunities for identity theft - and plenty takes place. Lamont Wood unravels some of the elaborate schemes operated by unscrupulous people who obtain personal information for the purposes of defrauding merchants, banks, and their targeted victims - their strategies are shocking and their work can quickly ruin anyone's credit rating. Wood offers sound advice concerning the posting of personal information online. You can be sure - other people online are looking for some to use!<br />Another concern for job seekers are the countless get-rich-quick scams that lure victims with claims that they can make a lot of quick money from the convenience of their homes. Scams such as multi-level marketing, medical billing, bulk e-mail, envelope stuffing, and craft/assembly work are quickly and soundly debunked.<br />Lamont Wood has written one of the best online job search books available today. His wit, charm, and background makes an excellent contribution to any job finding campaign. The book is packed with essential information about online services, preparing online resumes, online networking, online resources, and various technologies that can be used to find employment. It's must reading for personal, classroom, and workshop use!	2002-02-28
US	50591946	R24BVMOE04FACO	078972443X	930655504	TANGLED WEB: Tales of Digital Crime from the Shadows of Cyberspace	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Intriguing, Thought-Provoking, and Compelling!	Advances made in computer and Internet technologies have contributed to the expansion of gathering, storing, processing, and exchanging all types of information. Unfortunately, there are many unscrupulous people around these days who make unlawful attempts to obtain certain information, damage information and computer systems, obstruct services, cause mischief, and otherwise interfere with normal electronic communications.<br />     Tangled Web discusses the roles of computer, Internet, and telecommunications technologies in the realm of computer crime - including pornography, identity theft, hacking, credit card data theft, altering Web pages, deliberate shutting down of services, fraudulent money transfers, worm and virus infections, and sabotage carried out by disgruntled employees. Actual accounts of real people perpetrating such crimes, including interviews, drives home the impact that criminal computer activity can have on the lives of so many other people.<br />     Power describes in detail the kind of people involved in committing computerized crime - their motivations, how they go about their work, some of the law enforcement strategies involved in catching them, and the consequences of their actions - including monetary losses, downtime, and threats to human safety.<br />     The book contains a helpful glossary of terminology specifically related to computer crime. A listing of resources provides readers with a wealth of additional information about computer crime, threats to online privacy, and measures that can be taken to help prevent future breaches of safety and security. Inclusion of the Computer Fraud and Misuse Act and other U.S. laws and treaties spells out the serious nature of criminal computer crime and some of the steps the federal government has taken to discourage further criminal activity.<br />     I found the book quite chilling. I couldn't easily put it down. Anyone familiar with Simson Garfinkel's Database Nation (O'Reilly & Associates), will find this book thoroughly intriguing, thought-provoking, and compelling reason enough to take more serious measures to protect their computer systems and data against possible attack. Extraordinary reading and relevant to our culture today!	2002-02-12
US	50591946	R29T16TYGZ6VYD	0787955191	535923476	Lessons from the Cyberspace Classroom: The Realities of Online Teaching	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Fosters Community Among Educators And Their Students!	Growing numbers of K-12 schools, colleges, universities, and businesses have begun offering online instruction, taking advantage of computer and Internet technologies to deliver instruction once confined to the realm of physical classrooms. Indeed, the Internet, so-to-speak, has become a virtual classroom and community where all kinds of instruction can take place - anytime day or night, anywhere around the world.<br />     Lessons from the Cyberspace Classroom offers readers a broad treatment of the issues involved in planning, creating, and carrying out distance education via the Internet. In a concise manner the book introduces the issues, raises many serious questions, and provides many solutions to help meet the educational goals of instructors, their learning institutions, and their students.<br />     The real beauty of the book lies in its effort to motivate instructors and learning institutions to think through the issues for themselves - to evaluate the unique circumstances they face and to encourage them to seek more effective ways of accomplishing their goals. Because each virtual learning experience will be unique, a number of important considerations should be weighed to determine course structure, content, and delivery, such as:<br />What technologies should be used? <BR>Who will create the course? <BR>Who will own the course material(s)? <BR>How will the course be delivered? <BR>How will assignments, projects, and exams be administered? <BR>How will instructors and students be prepared? <BR>How will student participation be controlled? <BR>How will student behavior be controlled?<BR> <BR>     Lessons from the Cyberspace Classroom does a superb job of fostering community among educators and their students. The authors express the importance of creating learning communities were serious dialogue takes place - dialogue that enhances the learning process and leads to achieving specific educational goals. This book is must reading for online educational course development.	2002-02-11
US	50591946	RJ5PTTG5Y4K9B	0072195118	250349600	How to do Everything with Adobe(R) Acrobat(R) 5.0	Books	5	55	58	N	N	Gain A Greater Appreciation For Adobe Acrobat!	Adobe's Acrobat program is one of the premier software solutions available today for creating and sharing PDF documents.  The PDF file format (Portable Document Format), is one of the more popular methods of sharing documents online. It offers special security features and maintains uniform viewing of files across platforms. Document page layouts, including fonts and formatting are retained.<br />How to Do Everything With Adobe Acrobat 5.0 by Doug Sahlin provides extensive documentation and instruction on the use of the latest edition of this leading program. Sahlin demonstrates through the use of screenshots and discussion how Acrobat can easily take captured data and documents, including Web pages, and create professional looking PDF documents for sharing with others.<br />     The book is thoughtfully divided into four sections - an introduction to Adobe Acrobat, creating PDF documents, editing PDF documents, and distributing PDF documents. Book content is extraordinarily well-structured, easy to read, and understandable. Readers may begin reading at the point they feel most comfortable with. Newbies to Acrobat are encouraged to start at the front. More advanced users may focus upon their specific areas of interest.<br />     Major strengths of the book include readability, attention to detail, and the comprehensive coverage of Acrobat features. Readers will learn nearly everything there is to know about Acrobat - gathering and capturing data from a variety of sources, integrating audio and video files to create multimedia presentations, editing and formatting content, adding digital signatures, using document security features, optimizing files, preparing files for use on the Internet, saving and viewing files, and much more. Readers will also learn how to integrate the use of other programs with Acrobat to create file content - including OmniPage Pro 11, PageMaker, and Publisher.<br />     Readers will gain a greater appreciation for Acrobat as a serious publishing tool. It provides smooth conversion of data and existing documents into a format accessible by millions of people around the world - business people, attorneys, engineers, researchers, educators, Web developers, writers, and hobbyists. This is must reading for anyone who wants to use Adobe Acrobat to its full potential as a powerful publishing tool!	2002-02-02
US	50591946	R11VKGS79TWLPN	1551800675	683674905	Start and Run a Profitable Business Using Your Computer (Self-Counsel Business Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why Not Set Up A Home Or Small Office Business?	Start and Run a Profitable Business Using Your Computer by Douglas Gray is an excellent guide for starting businesses centered around the use of computers. Whether at home or in a formal office setting, computers can be used by just about anyone to start and run a worthwhile business. Douglas Gray treats his readers to 101 solid ideas on how they can put a computer to use to effectively start, operate, and maintain a business. Though helpful, no previous business experience is necessary.<br />     The book is broken up into three sections. The first section lists 101 businesses that readers can start with a computer. The author briefly describes each business opportunity, including discussion of the skills and equipment necessary to perform them. He also includes strategies for promoting them. Business categories include desktop publishing, researching, writing, editing, graphic design, multimedia, business accounting, finances, faxing, printing, training, Consulting, database services, E-mail services, and Website design services.<BR> <BR>     The second section discusses the actual setting up of businesses - assessing one's marketability, selecting a company name, an office, a telephone, other communications equipment, obtaining supplies, and dealing with the day-to-day matters involved in running a business. Most helpful is the author's advice about joining professional organizations, lecturing, teaching, and conducting seminars and workshops - any personal strengths should be exploited to further enhance one's business and career!<br />     The final section discusses the actual setting up of offices - setting up the work environment, setting up office equipment, and selecting computer equipment and software. The author devotes attention to making readers aware of ergonomic concerns - carpal tunnel syndrome and neck, back, and eye strain - these are important considerations for any line of work!<br />     The book is concise and easy to read. It contains great ideas and instruction necessary to start and operate a business. It's perfect for students, housewives, retired folks, and those persons not accustomed to operating a business. With the right planning and investment of time and resources, just about anyone can set up and run a successful business. This book will show you how. Good reading!	2002-01-09
US	50591946	R3N9MQXNPKIG36	007219247X	3003178	Net-Mom(R)'s Internet Kids & Family Yellow Pages	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Families Will Enjoy Many Hours of Fun and Adventure!	The 2002 Net-mom's Internet Kids & Family Yellow Pages directory offers kids and their entire families a number of refreshing, entertaining, and informative Websites. After a brief introduction readers are treated to Net-mom's top hotlists, top Websites, and safety tips for surfing the Internet. Then the real fun begins!<br />     This 587-page yellow page directory covers hundreds of topics of interest to kids and their families. Websites offer information about animals, art, buried treasures, coin collecting and money, computers, food, foreign countries, American history, insects, interesting facts, the Internet, music, scouting, ships and shipwrecks, space missions, sports history, toys, transportation, weather, world leaders, and much much more. I took the time to visit some of the Websites listed in the book. Here are several that caught my interest:<br />     Students will be in for a real gooey education at Silly Putty University. Here they will learn about the history, composition, and many uses of this still-popular toy - the toy with only one moving part. Students will also learn about the many varieties of Silly Putty currently available - the original pink, the 50th year anniversary metallic gold, glow-in-the-dark colors, temperature sensitive color changing colors, and an assortment of bright colors. When ready, students can elect to take the final exam in order to receive their Silly Putty degree!<br />     After viewing the Silly Putty Website I moved on to Coin World , to look up some information about my favorite coin - the 1943 steel pennies. During the second World War copper was needed for the war effort so zinc-covered steel pennies were struck. However, some rare 1943 copper pennies and even rarer 1944 steel pennies were made. At least one 1943 silver-bronze penny was made! I performed some additional online research and ended up placing bids at eBay for some steel pennies - and I won!<br />     As with any child-age educational material, parents should become seriously and creatively involved with the upbringing of their children. They should take the lead to protect their children at all times while they surf online. To her credit, the author advises parents to review certain Websites that contain sensitive material. Topics such as religion, politics, child development, environmentalism, and the creation-evolution debate sometimes touch upon controversial issues and require responsible parental involvement.<br />     The author provides brief and concise summary descriptions of each site mentioned in the book and creatively relates topics of interest to encourage readers to dig deeper in their online researching. As I've found out for myself, visiting Websites like the ones listed in this book can be a good educational experience, as well as a bunch of fun for the whole family. Parents can sit down with theirs kids and have many hours of fun and adventure. This book is ideal for babysitting, daycare, home-school, and public school use!	2002-01-08
US	50591946	R18BEJQY4M6H8P	1570734372	179559215	The lawyer's guide to creating Web pages	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Written Specifically For Lawyers And Law Firms!	The legal profession has been playing catch-up in recent years in regards to putting technology to use to better serve the needs of their clients and the special interests they represent. The American Bar Association has been one of the leading voices in creating awareness of how modern computer and Internet technologies can better benefit lawyers, their clients, and the legal process as a whole.<br />     The Lawyer's Guide to Creating Web Pages by Kenneth Johnson is a publication of the Law Practice Management Section of the American Bar Association. It was written specifically for lawyers and law firms who are planning to establish their own online presence. They will learn the basic principles of Web development, online marketing, and how best to present themselves before the online community.<br />     Johnson provides entry-level instruction in HTML programming. His readers will learn about basic design considerations such as setting font sizes, content alignment, using special characters, incorporating graphic images, creating e-mail and URL linking, and creating Website content. Johnson guides his readers through the process of creating an actual legal firm Website. Sample pages include content typical of many legal firm Websites. Readers will also learn about Web browsers and software programs they can use to create Web pages.<br />     Although the book is four years old and in need of updating, it still offers important guidance for setting up legal firm Websites. If you just want to learn how to design and create a Website, there are better books around that can offer current and better detailed instruction. Otherwise, avail yourself of the strategies provided in this book.<br />     The Internet is one of the most powerful marketing tools available today. Members of the legal community not yet taking advantage of this medium will find this book to be an excellent introduction to making the move online to market themselves. What better way to market andpromote their legal services - other lawyers already are!	2002-01-05
US	50591946	R27X6NH1IHYCTR	1582970491	978311960	2002 Writer's Market Online	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Indispensable Reference Work For Freelance Writers!	To many people writing is a hobby, a special interest, an expression of deep thought, and to others a profession - and a paycheck. Whatever oneswriting endeavors are intended for, there are many ways to express oneself and many avenues to getting work seen by others. 2002 Writer's Market Online edited by Kirsten Holm and published by Writer's Digest is one of the most exhaustive printed resources available today for getting work published, to get your name out, and to get paid for doing it!<br />  This mammoth 1112-page book features thousands of publishing opportunities - the names, contact information, and publishing guidelines for book and magazine publishers, literary agents, and companies accepting business and education writing, greeting card writing, playwriting, and screenwriting works. National and regional publications cover topics such as beauty, business, entertainment, finance, health, history, hobbies, journalism, music, nature, parental guidance, pets, religion, romance, science fiction, sports, technology, and the travel industry. Readers will also learn about hundreds of literary contests and awards that will bring in money and create name recognition that's important and often necessary to launch and maintain writing careers.<br /> Readers also have at their fingertips solid writing advice that will help them get their work noticed. Contributors to this fine work offer guidance on handling contracts and agreements, major copyright concerns, setting writing fees, writing query letters, manuscript formatting, submitting manuscripts, finding online and offline markets, syndicating columns, writing for the online market, and publishing on the Web. Special insider reports sprinkled throughout the book offer readers additional insight on other topics important to writers.<br /> 2002 Writer's Market Online features full access to Writer's Digest's [...] Website that features the full electronic edition of the printed book, additional listings, updated listings, an electronic newsletter, and additional writing helps and tools able to enhance anyone's writing career. Persons buying the book receive a full one-year subscription to this very helpful online service. This book and the accompanying Website are indispensable reference works for members of the freelance writing profession. These two resources provide up-to-date information about the people they need to know to powerfully advance their writing careers. They are highly recommended reading!	2002-01-01
US	50591946	RB5GHJ27B09TH	1582970165	732961209	Writer's Online Marketplace : How & Where to Get Published Online	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Essential Guide That Makes The Web Work For Writers.	Writer's Online Marketplace edited by Debbie Ridpath Ohi does a masterful job in presenting the Web as an open marketplace where writers can have a go at promoting themselves through personal Websites, where they can publish their own literary works, where they can network and develop professional relationships with others, where they can gain wider reading audiences, and where they can generate an income. The book is packed with a wealth of essential online marketing information that will inspire every writer to proceed onward with their careers.<br />     Readers receive concrete suggestions on how to get their name out. Advice includes using signature lines in e-mail messages, setting up informative Websites, joining mailing lists, writing press releases, publishing e-zines (or Webzines), conducting workshops, and establishing one's self as an expert - as a book reviewer perhaps?<br />     Readers will learn how to network with others - including meeting those people they need to know to advance their writing careers. They will learn about the growing world of e-publishing - the pro's and con's of putting books into electronic format and posting them online. They will gain access to a number of online publications listed in the book that accept manuscripts for publication. They will also learn how to search for writing markets, how to submit manuscripts, negotiate contracts, and follow copyright laws that pertain to freelance work, e-books, and Websites.<br />     The book is an essential guide to making the Web work for writers. The contributions of many seasoned writers makes this book a valuable tool for advancing writing pursuits. Writers of all walks of life and all levels of experience will benefit from its wealth of information. It will make an outstanding workshop textbook. Must reading!	2001-12-28
US	50591946	R2XU8X4X6RFRVI	1581801327	57327744	Your Perfect Home-Based Studio: Guide For Designers & Other . . .	Books	5	16	18	N	N	The Perfect Guide For Setting Up A Home Office!	The job market has taken many hits in recent years. Mergers, acquisitions, bankruptcies, and layoffs have become quite commonplace in American society. As the result of these trends in the business world, many people have taken to market their talents and skills from the comfort and safety of their own homes. Many have set up elaborate home offices from which they now conduct business.<br />     Your Perfect Home-Based Studio written by Poppy Evans is the perfect resource for those persons looking for professional guidance in setting up their own home office studios. This book includes a wealth of design options - furniture, accessories, home design and decorating options, and discussion of important business matters.<br />Poppy Evans guides her readers through a number of important decision-making topics pertaining to the setting up of a home office - the arrangement of furniture and equipment, the importance of having an ergonomically correct workstation, choosing the right computer equipment and service technicians, dealing with children, and establishing an effective online presence. Business matters discussed include determining what kind of business to establish, dealing with local government authorities, maintaining financial records, keeping track of expenses, paying taxes, and dealing with slow-paying clients. Thrown in is plenty of other important details necessary for setting up and running a productive home-based business.<br />     While setting up a home office may seem an easy task, there are some important considerations we should to keep in mind. Because one's place of work is confined to the home, as Poppy Evans points out, it's necessary to establish workplace discipline, being as accessible as possible, maintaining contact with clients and the business world, and to cultivate good working and long-term relationships with clients. The recognition and the paying of close attention to these concerns and others addressed in the book will go a long way to help readers operate successful home businesses.<br />     The book is beautifully illustrated with high resolution photographs of actual home office designs. A number of case studies are included to provide readers with actual home-based business experiences. The content, layout, and over all quality of the book makes it an excellent guide. This is must reading for consultants and anyone desiring to set up their own home office!	2001-12-26
US	50591946	R3LSSQO6UWSKFR	1563824876	714846438	Selling on the Web (E-Commerce) (Made E-Z Guides)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Enhance Web-Selling Opportunities And Create New Ones!	Selling on the Web by Paul Galloway reads like a short course primer on Web development, Website promotion, copywriting, advertising, marketing, and selling. Galloway provides concise instruction on these topics as they directly relate to successful online selling.<br />Readers will learn about important Website design considerations that will help them get sales, how to write content specifically for the Web, how to market online with Websites, e-mail, newsgroups, chat rooms, search engines, and how to market offline by using traditional broadcast, printed, and direct mail campaigns.<br />Galloway illustrates throughout most of the book the power of the written word - words used in copywriting to get sales. He illustrates how to legitimately play upon the emotions of people - fear, greed, guilt, pride, and love to get sales. He will also help his readers to write to gain their prospect's attention, to capture their interest, to arousing their desires, and to move them to take action.<br />Paul Galloway offers beginners an excellent opportunity to go online and to make the best of it. This concise guide to Web selling is packed with excellent information and instruction. The book is written in an extremely easy-to-read style anyone should appreciate - short paragraphs, bulleted and numbered lists, tips and notes, and a wealth of resources that are easily accessible and can be put to immediate use to generate an income. Convenient listings of books, services, and Websites are provided.<br />This book is highly recommended for new Web developers, small business operators, students, and for classroom and seminar use. It will greatly enhance every Web selling opportunity and create new ones.  A Windows and Macintosh compatible CD edition of the book is also available from the publisher.	2001-10-02
US	50591946	R3R3O2DX9LDH3I	1551803038	541371387	Writing for the Web (Geeks' Edition)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Packed With Excellent Writing Instruction!	The &quot;Geek&quot; edition of &quot;Writing for the Web&quot; by Crawford Kilian was written for Web developers who are more adept to programming than sitting at the keyboard of a computer and cranking out written Web page content. This book will help them to write better content that will effectively communicate the purpose of their Websites, to inform their readers, and to achieve desired results.<br />     To become more effective communicators online we must adopt certain writing guidelines that will appeal to readers, that will inform them, and then persuade them to act upon what they have been exposed to. Crawford Kilian assists Web developers to do just this. His thoughtful instruction will help Web developers to craft their content around guidelines that includes minimalization, coherence, clarity, accuracy, and correctness. This requires Web developers to know their audience(s), to generate reader interest and interactivity, writing for international readers, properly organizing content, choosing words carefully, avoiding biased and otherwise problematic terminology, and respecting spelling, grammar, and sentence structure.<br />     Topics covered in the book that will contribute to better Web writing includes instruction on organization, choosing the right words, editing existing Web content - with examples, persuading readers to respond, marketing on the Web, understanding copyright matters, and FAQ's about launching Web-writing careers.<br />     This concise guide to Web writing is packed with excellent writing instruction that will set new Web developers straight on the art and science of writing with the online community in mind. The focus on written content makes this book a good choice for those persons desiring to start a Web-writing career or wanting to advance their existing writing pursuits. Recommended for new Web developers, small business operators, and for classroom use!	2001-08-22
US	50591946	R1X8PJF1JFRERQ	0697327205	601905810	The Newspaper Designer's Handbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Book Illustrating The Art Of Designing Newspapers!	The Internet has become a popular place to share news - every kind of news imaginable.  Good Website layout design and effective use of content material will assist visitors to take it in.  What better way to learn about producing outstanding online news publications than using a great newspaper design guide.  Tim Harrower has produced a fifth edition of his Newspaper Designer's Handbook that illustrates the fine art of designing newspapers - Web developers should also take notice!<br />     Newspapers, magazines, and other printed works have been around for a long time and still represent the most popular form of communicating information.  Web development owes a lot to the printed publications we have grown up with and have become accustomed to. Design and placement of headlines, captions, body text, photographs, and other content in print have direct application to sharing news online today.  Tim Harrower's handbook offers much in the way of design help that Website designers should pay close attention to - the key concepts of general layout design, use of colors, cropping and placement of images, text, fonts, sizing, using quotes, and copyright considerations.<br />     Harrower demonstrates his mastery of newspaper design throughout the book.  He shows great attention to detail.  He critiques a variety of layout designs, he offers thought-provoking follow-up exercises that will force readers to think through what they are learning, he reveals newspaper publishing<br />rules we should know about, and he throws in some creative humor that contributes to top-notch instruction comparable to taking courses in journalism - at considerably less expense.<br />     The contributions of this book to online news reporting is significant. Content is clearly presented, it offers attention to details, much advice is given, and offers plenty of great layout ideas. The companion CD includes interactive cropping and layout exercises, a number of interactive quizzes, a glossaryof key terms, and other helpful information that will introduce readers to the theory and practice of good newspaper design, all of which is fully applicable to Website design.<br />     This is an essential resource for anyone desiring to publish news online. It's must reading for journalism students, ideal for Web development and general business use, and does a great job introducing all readers to the world of news publishing!	2001-08-01
US	50591946	R38FH1WK2T4OAQ	0870836137	894369554	New Testament Recovery Version (large 9 1/4" x 6 1/4", black)	Books	1	12	62	N	N	The Recovery Version Bible is Biased!	The Recovery Version Bible is the work of the Living Stream Ministry, the publishing-arm of Witness Lee's &quot;Local Church&quot; movement, which is considered cultic by many.  This translation is available from the Living Stream Ministry and from the Amana bookstores - all of which are owned and operated by members of this particular religious movement.<br />The Recovery Version Bible/New Testament contains some textual changes and extensive footnotes supportive of this particular religious movement's beliefs and practices, such as God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit being just ONE PERSON, not three distinct Persons.  The &quot;s&quot; in &quot;spirit&quot; in 1 Cor. 15:45 has been capitalized to support the movement's belief that Jesus Christ became &quot;the Life-Giving Spirit&quot; after His death and resurrection.  Footnoting supports this view as well.<br />Some of the footnotes are quite problematic - particularly if you don't belong to Witness Lee's &quot;Local Church&quot; movement.  Denominationalism is harshly put down in this abrasive manner:<br />&gt;&gt;The word is the Lord's expression, and the name is the Lord Himself. The apostate church has deviated from the Lord's word and become heretical. The reformed church, though recovered to the Lord's word to some extent, has denied the Lord's name by denominating herself with many other names, such as Lutheran, Wesleyan, Anglican, Presbyterian, Baptist, etc. The recovered church has not only returned to the Lord's word in a full way, but has also abandoned all names other than that of the Lord Jesus Christ. The recovered church belongs to the Lord absolutely, having nothing to do with any denominations (any names). To deviate from the Lord's word is apostasy, and to denominate the church with any name other than the Lord's is spiritual fornication. The church as the chaste virgin espoused to Christ (2 Cor. 11:2) should not have any name other than her husband's. All other names are an abomination in theeyes of God. In the recovered church life we have no teachings of Balaam (2:14), no teachings of Nicolaitans (2:15), no teachings of Jezebel (2:20), and no mysterious doctrines of Satan (2:24), but only the pure word of the Lord. Amen! The recovered church has no denominations (names), but the unique name of the Lord Jesus Christ. The deviation from the word to heresies and the exaltation of so many names other than that of Christ are the most striking signs of degraded Christianity. The return to the pure word from all heresies and traditions and the exaltation of the Lord's name by abandoning every other name are the most inspiring testimony in the recovered church. This is why the church in the Lord's recovery has the revelation and presence of the Lord and expresses the Lord in a living way, full of light and with the riches of life (Witness Lee, Revelation 3:8, #3 footnote, The Recovery New Testament, p. 1343 in 1st edition; page 1256 in 2nd edition; Book of Revelation Booklet, 1976, page 27).&lt;&lt;<br />Furthermore, it should be pointed out that this movement views itself as the one true expression of Jesus Christ and His body in every city and on the whole earth.  Denominational groups are viewed as being poor, fallen, blind, degraded, and being the harlot daughters of the Whore of Babylon (Rev. 17).<br />Be wary of this translation and any other translation produced by any other particular religious movement - they may very well be biased for a reason - to support the movement's beliefs and practices and to draw unsuspecting people into it!<br />I would advise readers to go online and read up on this particular religious movement and this translation before spending serious money on it.  Better yet - forget about doing so and buy a good NASB!<br />JHM	2001-07-09
US	50591946	R4FVXA64Y42L1	0789725002	871994919	How to Expand & Upgrade PCs (2nd Edition)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Makes Computer Learning Much More Fun And Easy!	Preston Gralla and Que Publishing have done a great job updating and expanding &quot;How to Expand &amp; Upgrade PCs.&quot; This second edition provides a more comprehensive look at how average computer users with little technical know-how can perform major upgrades to their computers and expand the use of them by installing new memory chips, hardware, and a variety of peripheral accessories.<br />In keeping with Que's fine tradition of using high-quality printed graphics, this new edition is beautifully illustrated and designed to make learning much more fun and easier to accomplish. The book explains in simple terms how major computer components and technologies work, how to handle computer equipment, what the latest technological advances are, and how everything works together to make computing happen!<br />Readers will learn what the basic computer components are, how to open up computers with the right tools, how to connect cables and set switches, how to install jumpers, power supplies, hard drives, CPU and memory chips, a variety of circuit boards, floppy drives, CD-ROM drives, DVD drives, Zip drives, tape drives, and modems. Readers will also learn how to hook-up USB port devices such as printers, digital cameras, scanners, other accessories, and improve over all system performance within the Windows Operating System environment.<br />This fully illustrated book is perfect for small businesses, classroom use in public and private schools, colleges, adult education courses, for beginners, and will also make a fine gift for the first-time computer buyer!	2001-03-27
US	50591946	R20J9BHBSYP88E	1552123073	86438729	The Savvy Way to Successful Website Promotion: Secrets of successful Websites; Attracting on-line traffic; The most up to date guide to top positioning on search engines	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Written With Small Business Owners In Mind!	Derek Galon has written The Savvy Way to Successful Website Promotion for small business owners who are looking for some effective ways to better promote themselves online through their own Websites. This book offers plenty of concise information on how they can get this accomplished.<br />     This book features plenty of marketing and promoting tips, including finding a good ISP, advice on coming up with domain names, basic Website design considerations that will make Websites easy to find and display, special programming features that will attract attention, and developing Website content that will help online business people produce sales. A helpful glossary of Web terms is included at the back of the book.<br />     Readers will find particularly helpful the concise instruction on programming. They will learn about linking, embedding keywords into their Web pages, and using banners. Readers will also learn about using mail lists and taking advantage of newsgroups. The tips and tricks outlined in the book are cute, clever, and will actually work. I chuckled when I read about embedding search engine key words by blending them into Web page backgrounds!<br />     The author's emphasis placed upon using search engines is well-founded. This is a major step in drawing visitors to Websites. The brief overview of major search engines like AltaVista, Infoseek, HotBot, Excite, Lycos, and MSN will help readers learn the skills and strategies involved in preparing their Websites for submission. The process will be rewarding once traffic starts coming their way!<br />     Written for the average business owner creating a Website or updating an existing one, this book will help them attain a good business image before the online community. It's written in a brief, concise manner for quick reading and implementation. It will help readers to start doing business online.  Ideal for beginners!	2001-03-10
US	50591946	R1USR5BI2BG6GV	1565923537	397506157	Designing Web Audio & CD-ROM: RealAudio, MP3, Flash and Beatnik	Books	5	8	9	N	N	This Book Is A Masterpiece!	Advances in Web audio technology are nothing short of amazing. New software programs, new programming languages, and improvements with bandwidth have produced phenomenal results. Josh Beggs and Dylan Thede have written Designing Web Audio to provide professional-level Web development instruction in areas of Web audio theory, soundtrack creation, programming, and broadcasting - Webcasting.<br />     Readers will learn how audio sounds are created, how microphones and other input devices work, what the latest streaming audio file formats are and how they work, how leading audio file editors work, how to create effective multimedia Web pages and multimedia presentations, how to write basic audio file programming scripts, and how to create Webcasts. Many helps, tips, and sample scripts are included to assist readers to achieve the best possible results!<br />     The authors explain in significant detail the many considerations involved in creating and using Web audio. Factors such as determining the overall purpose of a Website, determining the target audience, recognizing bandwidth limitations, hardware and software used, system and browser platforms used, mode of delivery, audio content, and legal constraints are all important matters to be analyzed and taken into full account before getting started.<br />     The book features a convenient buyer's guide to selecting and using audio file editing and presentation programs, recording studio equipment, and sound effects libraries. Readers receive solid instruction on how they can create professional Web sound studios costing anywhere from several thousand dollars on up to $20,000 or more. A number of leading software and recording equipment options are presented to help serious readers select and put to use the latest audio software and recording tools. Checkout the buying tips!<br />     Familiarity with audio file formats is essential. An excellent appendix compares the latest audio file formats: MP3, RealAudio, Windows Media, QuickTime, Liquid Audio, Flash, Director Shockwave, Beatnik, MIDI, WAV, and AIFF. With this information available to them, readers will be able to select and use the Web audio broadcasting formats best suited to meet their own particular needs.<br />     This book is a masterpiece. It provides thorough coverage of today's latest Web audio technology. It's laid out well, it's clearly written and illustrated, and it will produce professional results. It's ideally suited for professional Web developers and musicians who have significant experience working with computers and the Internet. This is an outstanding Web audio resource!	2001-02-06
US	50591946	R11TZU5X22R38M	0789723018	130499627	MP3 Underground	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Exciting Book About An Exciting Audio Technology!	Ron White and his son Michael have teamed up to write MP3 Underground, an exciting book that discusses in considerable detail the inner workings of the Internet, MP3 streaming technology, the software programs and devices used to participate in this innovative medium of online music distribution, and legal considerations that govern the music industry. Readers will greatly benefit from the treatment that Napster receives.  The book provides a lot of detail, perhaps more than some folks in the music recording industry would like us to know about.<br />     The book provides essential information about MP3 music playing programs such as RealJukeBox, MusicMatch, and the Windows Media Player, online music search programs such as Napster, Go!Zilla, MP3 Friend, and CuteFTP/MX, and portable players that will allow users to play downloaded tunes while on the go. Users will be able to compare the features of programs and players, they will learn how to use them, and then select the ones that best suit their own individual music needs.<br />     Other helpful information provided by the authors includes instructions on how to download music, collecting and organizing music, burning your own music CD's, and recording online broadcasts using &quot;ripper&quot; programs. An excellent feature of the book not to overlook is the impressive listing of 101 audio Websites that offer downloadable music, music industry news, Webcasts, good links, software programs, and other streaming audio content.<br />     The CD that accompanies the book features an impressive array of audio file editors, players, plug-ins, compression programs, and Web browsers that will help you get started to create, edit, play, and distribute music immediately. These programs will permit you to create and distribute just about every kind of sound file. They are really great tools to have on hand!<br />The book is fun, enjoyable, and entertaining to read. The contents is directed toward those who take music seriously, with a touch of humor thrown in to grab your attention. The inside front cover legal disclaimer is a riot.  Readers will learn to greater appreciate computers and the Internet as serious tools to create and distribute music.  This book will revolutionize the way we create, share, listen to, and enjoy music.  This is a great gift idea for budding musicians and computer hobbyists. It's ideal for beginners!	2001-02-04
US	50591946	RCOXM3E47MDNX	0596001053	719579285	Database Nation : The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Addresses Many Privacy Issues We Face Today!	The first edition of Simson Garfinkel's Database Nation was published last year and it was well received. It won the praise of many people in the computer and Internet industries for its candid portrayal of how advances in computer and Internet technologies, satellite surveillance technology, abuse of database information, computer hacking, human error, fraud, lax security, security and law enforcement technologies, Federal agency policies, and legislation can affect our lives. Consequences are far from flattering.<br />     Readers will find alarming the actual experiences of real people documented in this book. Read up on how companies can use computers and Websites to track customer shopping and surfing patterns and make future use of this information for a variety of purposes. Readers will be made aware of how easily transit card use can be tracked. Did you think that grocery store discount card was used only to save you money? Ever wonder what all that information on a customer survey or registration card was used for? This book addresses these and many other privacy issues we face today that have far reaching implications on how we live our lives in this society. Don't take things for granted. Be informed.<br />     O'Reilly &amp; Associates has updated this book and packaged it in a convenient paperback edition, making it more affordable and easier to carry around. It deserves your reading. Be sure that your purchase of it will be recorded and tracked by a computer somewhere that is operated by someone who may not necessarily have your own best interests in mind!	2001-01-31
US	50591946	R1B83EZ7OR1KJ2	0814479871	855959320	Public Relations on the Net: Winning Strategies to Inform and Influence the Media, the Investment Community, the Government, the Public, and More!	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Offers Successful Public Relations Strategies For Online Use	Shel Holtz wrote Public Relations on the Net to promote strategies that will help readers to successfully influence the media, government, business communities, and the general public through online connectivity.<br />     This book features a wealth of helpful information that will assist any company, organization, or person to look good before the public. Holtz points out that the Internet can play a significant role in public relations work. This is so true. This book offers readers a full course in developing essential communication skills and sound public relations strategies intended for online use.<br />     Holtz covers the basic public relations tools used today - e-mail, e-mail newsletters, discussion groups, and Websites. He lays the necessary groundwork for their effective use. With many companies facing embarrassing situations such as strikes, recalls, work stoppages, plant closures, financial problems, litigation, and about-face actions, saving-face strategies are important and even crucial to the survival of any company. Holtz creatively guides readers through the use of these tools to achieve the maximum possible impact under every imaginable circumstance, good or bad.<br />     Readers will be encouraged to learn that any company or organization - large and small alike, are on equal footing online if good public relations campaigns are carried out. Strategies involving writing for the Web, designing Websites, follow-up action, and crisis response efforts will pay off for anyone. For instance, Holtz points out that companies can maintain good public images of themselves by providing links to timely, accurate, and up-to-date information at their Websites. Examples of good public relations work are provided.<br />     This book is ideal for companies and organizations who should be concerned about creating and maintaining positive and professional images before the public. Public relations consultants will glean important understanding on how to develop sound media relations skills. The book is highly informative and will benefit any public relations campaign!	2001-01-25
US	50591946	R26EHPPLWZ14AI	0814470319	40036393	On the Art of Writing Copy: The Best of * Print * Broadcast * Internet * Direct Mail	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Helps Readers Improve Their Writing Skills!	Herschell Gordon Lewis, the author of many writing books, including Cybertalk That Sells, has updated his book, On the Art of Writing Copy. This book offers a fresh approach to learning the in's and out's copy writing. By gleaning from the many actual printed ads and rules provided in the book, every reader will begin producing better copy.<br />     Lewis provides bold and creative solutions to creating copy for any occasion - including traditional and online advertising campaigns, corporate usage, news reporting, fund-raising, and general correspondence. Throughout the book, Lewis presents actual printed magazine advertisements that demonstrate various methods of communicating - his insightful critiques of them will help readers to structure, clarify, and polish up their own work.<br />     Lewis has mastered the art of writing and so will his readers who apply the contents of this book.  Specific instruction includes choosing and using words, exercising care in selecting words, manufacturing words for impact, creating effective sentence structure, producing motivational copy, writing guarantees, and targeting specific audiences. His short course on grammar and usage will help readers improve their writing skills.  They will see immediate results.<br />     This book will cater to the writing needs of many, including Web developers and online businesses. They will find this book particularly useful for creating professional-grade Website copy, e-marketing newsletters, and e-mail correspondence. This book would make a great writing class instructional guide. This book is essential reading!	2001-01-18
US	50591946	R33903RUXFG32M	0814470114	670119418	CyberAssistant: How to Use the Internet to Get More Done in Less Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Develop Solid Research Skills With This Book!	Business people and hobbyists alike have found the Internet to be a goldmine of a place for buying and selling, marketing and promoting, and for gathering and sharing information. There is much to search for online but not everyone has the time and resources available to conduct adequate research. D.A. Smith-Hemphill has written CyberAssistant: How to Use the Internet to Get More Done in Less Time to help other members of the online community to make the most effective use of the time and resources they do have.<br />     The book focuses primarily upon getting set up with an online account and computer equipment, developing research methodology, and making use of the navigational tools people should be using for their searches. Smith-Hemphill discusses how to search for ISP services, setting up browsers and computer equipment, getting along with others, using search engines, making use of the newsgroups and discussion groups, tapping into specialized databases, and how we should go about looking for information.<br />     Smith-Hemphill takes netiquette seriously and her treatment reflects a high standard of behavior still found lacking online. She points out that because we communicate online electronically, people we interact with know us only by how we communicate with them using a mouse and keyboard. Readers will learn how to make good impressions the first time and every time when replying to e-mail, participating in online discussions, following respectable acceptable use policies, correct spelling and use of grammar, our choice of words, and other proper key strokes.<br />     Search engines play an important role in conducting online research. Smith-Hemphill discusses use of the major search engines that help us find the information we look for. Selection of key words, phrases, and other character strings are among the topics covered. A selection of other helpful Websites will assist readers to track down essential information online and help them develop solid research skills.<br />     One fascinating aspect about this book is worth mentioning. Smith-Hemphill encourages her readers to learn from their online research experiences. The documenting of various research methods, procedures, and other helpful tricks and tips can go a long way to enhance our long-range effectiveness - and careers. This is an important process every member of the online community should learn to do!<br />     The book reads easy and is highly informative. The average business owner, employee, researcher, student, and hobbyist will find it very helpful and easy to follow. This book would make a great addition to any business, classroom, and library environment with online connectivity. This is a great gift idea. Ideal for beginners!	2000-11-28
US	50591946	R20203DPIQZ55K	0471349763	378814542	Dan Janal's Guide to Marketing on the Internet: Getting People to Visit, Buy and Become Customers for Life	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Great Marketing Advice for Any Marketing Campaign!	Dan Janal has been on the frontlines of Internet marketing for many years.  He has written and spoken on the topic well. His latest book, Janal's Guide  to Marketing on the Internet, represents the best advice available on  promoting one's self online in plain and easy to read language.<br />      Janal covers plenty. The book is packed with a wealth of great marketing  advice that will help any marketing campaign. Some of the marketing  strategies discussed in the book include creating online marketing plans,  Website design intended to get results, incorporating the use of search  engines, effectively using e-mail, writing and distributing publicity  material online, building relationships with other online people in the  newsgroups, establishing virtual communities, creating special focus  groups, and offering quality customer service.<br />     Sticking to the  business of marketing ourselves online is not always easy to accomplish. A  lot of other events and circumstances can compete for our time. Janal is up  front with his readers, and at the front of his book he points out that  those persons who will most benefit from his book are those persons who are  seriously determined to carry out the strategies outlined in it.<br />      Marketing products, services, and information online is big business for a  lot of people these days. Consider the opportunities that are available for  businesses large and small, public service and private organizations,  associations, and average people like you and me. Take what Janal has to  offer you in this book and put it to use today!	2000-09-13
US	50591946	R2HO86O5CPVG5S	1565920414	525200885	Smileys: Over 650, Compiled by David Sanderson, the "Noah Webster of Smileys"	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Have You Sent a Smiley Today?	Smileys. You know what I'm talking about. Those little sideways faces  composed on computer keyboards. Known also as &quot;emoticons&quot; they  express a variety of emotions, feelings, sentiments, and sometimes  represent well-known persons. They serve as a quick way to get messages  across, whether good or bad, happy or sad. David Sanderson has complied  over 650 of them in this handy pocket sized book to meet every occasion and  need.<br />      This printed collection of smileys is arranged topically by  categories such as emotions, attitudes, persons and personalities, animals,  hair styles, special interests, and occasions. Examples of actual smiley  usage are provided throughout the book to help readers along. Definitions  for recommended use are provided to help readers select the right smileys  for the right occasions. Readers will have fun combing through the pages of  this book to see what is available. And of course, everyone is free to  compose their own smileys. All the ingredients are here!<br />     This smiley  guide is ideal for company office and network environments where people  communicate with one another on a regular basis. It will also come in handy  when composing e-mail to send to friends, relatives, and business contacts.  A smiley can add a touch of humor and personality to any communication.  Have you sent a smiley today? 8^D	2000-09-13
US	50591946	R21RYXBPKBG9OI	0874778840	921489457	Making Money in Cyberspace	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Anyone Can Derive An Income From It!	Work-at-home experts Paul and Sarah Edwards, the authoring team of a series of leading working-from-home books, have teamed up with Linda Rohrbough to write Making Money In Cyberspace to encourage business people  to take their existing businesses online and to invite others to test the  waters of starting an online business from scratch themselves. This book  will open up the exciting world of online business opportunities.<br />      Making Money In Cyberspace was written to demonstrate that a number of  traditional occupations including domestic, technical, and corporate level  work can be conducted online from the comfort of a home or office. The  authors cite a number of occupations that just about anyone can make a  living from online. Check out the helpful checklist at the back of the  book!<br />     The book focuses a considerable amount of attention to the  details of designing creative Websites that will effectively market an  online business operation. Building and promoting effective Websites,  developing content, advertising options, payment considerations, and  selecting an Internet service provider are covered. A number of actual  cases studies are provided to reinforce these important issues.<br />      Readers will appreciate the fact that the authors have expressed themselves  in a non-technical manner. Anyone can pick up this book and put it to use!  It will make a great companion to other books written by these authors.  This is sure to be a favorite among those who love what the Internet has to  offer and desire to derive an income from it! This book would also make a  nice gift!	2000-08-02
US	50591946	R38J4GSQI1271E	0879305150	792642465	The Domain Name Handbook; High Stakes and Strategies in Cyberspace	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Most Comprehensive Domain Name Resource to Date!	Remember the old saying, &quot;What's in a name?&quot; A name should represent a well known company, person, quality workmanship, products, and services. Nothing could be more true when we consider what is involved in  registering and using domain names today.  Ellen Rony and Peter Rony have  written The Domain Name Handbook to provide readers with a considerable  amount of detailed information about this often overlooked but essential  element of establishing an online presence.<br />     When a company or person  takes action to establish themselves online it is necessary for them to  come up with a unique domain name that clearly represents the nature of  their products, services, or other stated purposes of the Website. Sounds  easy enough but this is not necessarily the case. One of the most hotly  contested aspects of setting up a Website today is the selection and  ownership of a domain name. There are a number of factors to take into  consideration in this crucial decision making process. Ellen Rony and Peter  Rony do a masterful job of exposing the many pitfalls that could spell  disaster for anyone wishing to set up shop online today.<br />     This  650-page book is packed with extensive information about many of the legal  challenges that have been waged over the registration and use of domain  names, including alleged copyright violations, trademark infringement, and  actual court cases.  This is the most comprehensive resource for domain  name dispute case studies to date. It is heavily footnoted. Thumb through  it to read up on what real people have experienced themselves. Many of the  accounts will expose the darker side of the business world we compete  in!<br />     According to the documentation provided in this book some big  name companies have gone after smaller companies and persons (and vice  versa), who have registered domain names already trademark protected by  existing laws. Some of the laws currently pertaining to Internet domain  name use have not been etched in stone as of yet but information provided  in this book will help chart the course. The accompanying CD and a Website  offer supplemental reading material. Although these resources offer plenty  in terms of legal proceedings, the authors recommend that readers consult  their attorneys for solid legal advice!<br />     Perhaps through no fault of  your own you may one day find yourself the focus of an infringement case.  Be prepared to face these challenges today. This book is must reading for  Website designers, Web business consulting firms, attorneys, and companies  doing business online!	2000-07-19
US	50591946	R2YFPKUQVQVS0L	1574200011	479479760	Landa List	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Keep This Book Within Arm's Length of Your Computer!	Have you ever found yourself sitting at the keyboard of your computer and  needing a quick answer about spelling, grammar, or punctuation? The Landa  List writing guide offers users a quick and easy way to produce clean copy  for any written undertaking, including Web content. This 50-page guide  offers a surprising amount of information within its covers that will make  anyone look good in print.<br />     This economical guide is well-organized,  clearly written, easy to read, and provides writing solutions involving  punctuation, the use of numbers, capitalization, grammar, spelling, gender  usage, proofreading, and confusable words. Lists of the top misspelled and  confused words are provided to help users avoid making embarrassing usage  mistakes. It's great for online use!<br />     Although this guide doesn't  pack the punch that The Chicago Manual of Style does, how many people have  one of those sitting on their shelves anyway? Who has the time to thumb  through it while composing newsgroup and e-mail messages online? Who wants  to run out and pay for one?<br />     The Landa List conveniently fits inside  desks, notebooks, and briefcases and is ideal for people on a budget and on  the move. It's a great gift idea for students, secretaries, and people  involved in creating Web content who need immediate answers. It's also  ideal for classroom, company, and promotional use. Keep this book within  arm's length of your computer. Highly recommended!	2000-07-18
US	50591946	R227EBGWGZPGKD	0891061428	552359762	Online Recruiting	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Will Keep Recruiters Actively Involved and Successful!	Donna Graham has written Online Recruiting to assist company recruiters to  find the best candidates to fulfill their company needs. She provides her  readers with information about essential online tools, resources, and  offers successful strategies that will make the process of searching for  good employees less confusing, more user friendly, and more productive.<br />      Graham encourages her readers to take full advantage of every  opportunity to post job openings and to view job search resources such as  job boards, newsgroups, company Websites, traditional newspaper classified  ads, and other forums pertaining to employment services. She identifies and  compares the major job search Websites that recruiters should know about.  She encourages her readers to bookmark those sites that offer unique value  and rich content - these sites should always be at their fingertips!<br />      Readers are presented with some sample job postings they can freely adapt  for their own use. Graham will help her readers craft their own postings  that will address touchy issues such as job titles, salaries,  specifications, employment history, and educational requirements. Her  instruction will keep readers operating well within the boundaries of  employment law.<br />     Employee retention is a major concern of Graham. She  conveys the sentiment that people looking for work ought to be helped to  find careers, not merely jobs to get by in life. There's a big difference  here. According to Graham, prospective employers should seek the right  people and show genuine interest in them, particularly in areas of  employment practices.<br />     Job recruiters working for large corporations,  mid-size companies, and for themselves will find this book to be a valuable  guide for carrying out effective online employee searches. Graham's tips,  tricks, techniques, key concepts, strategies, and approach to doing  business will keep recruiters actively involved and successful with theirwork. Highly recommended!	2000-07-18
US	50591946	R32KYE7P8FOJ7I	0471377481	61515775	ISP Liability Survival Guide: Strategies for Managing Copyright, Spam, Cache, and Privacy Regulations (Networking Council)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Will Keep ISP's Operating on the Strait and Narrow!	ISP Liability Survival Guide written by Timothy Casey is an excellent guide for ISP's to follow in order to run an effective service and remain within established industry standards of practice and the law. This book  will help ISP's to sort through all the existing laws, regulations,  policies, and issues and help them to determine which ones apply to them  and how applicable ones should be enforced through their services.<br />      This book provides an excellent treatment of handling intellectual property  issues. Trademark, copyright, patent, and domain name issues are big today.  ISP's will receive a mini-course in dealing with them. What is a trademark?  What is a copyright? What is fair use? What constitutes infringement? What  are the implications of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)? What  is the ISP's liability? How does an ISP respond to a complaint? It's all  covered here. ISP's will appreciate the advice on handling reported  incidents of alleged infringement.<br />     ISP's face a number of other  serious threats to their services. Some of these are caused by the conduct  of their own clients and sometimes through the efforts of outside parties  looking for ways of expanding their reach. ISP's must keep up on gambling,  pornography, spamming, spoofing, cookies, fraud, defamation, libel, and  child privacy issues. This book will educate ISP's about these troublesome  issues and provide them with strict guidelines that will keep them  operating on the strait and narrow.<br />     ISP's receive advice and  instruction on other matters such as planning, establishing, and enforcing  policies and terms of service. They will also benefit from the number of  actual case studies that reveal how various laws, regulations, policies,  and court decisions have clear implications on how they should conduct  their own services. This is must reading for any ISP and company who wants  to do things right!	2000-07-18
US	50591946	R3AR90A9UVSTIL	0910965374	863524770	Net.People: The Personalities and Passions Behind the Web Sites	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Will Inspire Others to Go Online Themselves!	Thomas Bleier and Eric Steinert have brought together in net.people the  people, the content, and the work that has gone into a sampling of Websites  representative of average people like you and me. The book profiles the  lives of men and women who offer a variety of informational services that  include budget living, comic books, electronic gaming, horse riding, humor,  medical advice, misheard song lyrics, B-movies, movie reviews, software  reviews, sports, unusual tourist attractions, writer resources, Website  reviews, and even celebrity grave sites - honest!<br />     Readers will learn  how the ideas of these people were turned into successful Websites and  about the amount of time, labor, expense, and strategies involved in  launching them. How did they design their Websites? How did they find  financing for their sites? How do they draw increased traffic to them? What  were the successes and failures they experienced? How have their lives been  changed? The answers to these and other questions are here for all to read  and learn from.<br />     Just who are these people? They are people just like  you and me. They have real interest in sharing certain information with  others for fun, and in some cases, for profit of one kind or another. They  have knowledge, skill, talent, ideas, and opinions just like anyone else.  What makes them different is they have gone online with their offerings.  They have experienced the good times and the bad. Readers may be able to  identify with them as they read this highly personal and revealing book.<br />      This book will inspire readers to take their own thoughts and ideas  online as well. It will help them to further develop their own ideas, to  design their own Websites, and come up with their own marketing strategies.  It's highly recommended reading for anyone wanting to go online. Readers  will have fewer excuses not to do so after reading this book!	2000-07-18
US	50591946	R187DDWAT70DAL	0672318172	364834775	Sams Teach Yourself e-Job Hunting Today	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Offers Highly Effective Job Search Strategies!	Schlesinger and Musich teamed up to write e-Job Hunting to help members of  the online community to successfully find employment through the use of  Internet technology. They offer in-depth resume style and writing  instruction, career planning, self-evaluation, online interviewing  instruction, and a number of highly effective job search strategies.<br />      Readers will find helpful instruction on how to write and otherwise prepare  resumes for posting online. Effective word selection, grammar, formatting,  layout, type faces, content, length, scannability, and the methods of  posting resumes are important considerations covered in good detail in this  book.<br />     The authors of e-Job Hunting do a commendable job of  identifying and evaluating the major and most helpful job board sites such  as monster.com, careerpath.com, careerbuilder.com, careermosaic.com, and so  on. Additional sites, publications, and topics discussed in the book offer  a wealth of further job seeking guidance.<br />     This handy guide is a good  place to start in the job searching process. It covers all the bases.  Readers will learn a lot about themselves and the kind of employment that  is best suited for them. This is essential reading for anyone serious about  finding a good job and perhaps a new career doing something they want to  do!	2000-07-18
US	50591946	RQYA2KZ1ZKM0V	0965866890	352828104	300 MORE Incredible Things to Do on the Internet -- Vol. II (300 Incredible Things to Do on the Internet)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This is One of the Greatest Internet Gifts Available!	The Internet has provided people with many more opportunities to do things since the first edition of this little book came out in 1998. Ken Leebow has come up with another great collection of useful online resources and  fun things to do.<br />     This book is another compilation in the series of  Incredible Things to do... books. Readers are invited to learn about taking  care of their computers, sound investing, managing their homes, MP3 music,  playing crossword puzzles, searching online, smart shopping, and more.  Readers are also be able to view Webcams located around the world, read up  on dumb laws and urban legends, find jobs, find travel information, and do  many more things!<br />     This book offers helpful information that people  can really use. It makes an ideal gift for folks who surf the Internet for  fun, business, and pleasure. It's compact, concise, and very easy to read.  It will also make an excellent promotional give-away item at parties,  tradeshow exhibits, special business functions, and other events. It can be  customized for any company and organization. This is one of the greatest  Internet gifts available!	2000-06-28
US	50591946	RA1LEQX093BIL	0071353100	559374897	The Complete Guide to Associate & Affiliate Programs on the Net: Turning Clicks Into Cash	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Become Involved in this Booming Industry!	Daniel Gray has written The Complete Guide to Associate and Affiliate Programs on the Net to provide a very insightful look at this booming industry and to encourage his readers to consider participating in what it  may have to offer them.<br />Readers will learn who the big players are, such  as Be-Free, Commission Junction, and LinkShare, and learn what is involved  in bringing merchant companies and prospective affiliates together. Readers  will also learn about the different types of programs offered to affiliates  and the mechanics involved in setting up business relationships.<br />     The  book features full-page listings of the 100 top companies (merchants),  that, according to Gray, offer the best affiliate marketing opportunities.  Readers can familiarize themselves with the history of each company and  determine for themselves whether a perfect marriage can take place.  Information such as Websites, types of products and services, contact  information, program administration, commission and payment schedules,  revenues, and restrictions are provided to permit prospective affiliates to  make informed and intelligent decisions. Gray offers a selection of  merchant profiles to help readers understand the behind-the-scenes  operations of leading companies in this industry. This is an insightful  experience!<br />     The book also features a number of affiliate marketing  success stories. Readers will be able read up on what others have already  experienced - the good and the bad, and learn how they can successfully  participate. Guidance in selecting merchants, designing Websites and  newsletters, launching publicity campaigns, keeping track of sales, and the  listing of resources that provide additional assistance make this book  truly amazing. Must reading!	2000-06-28
US	50591946	R1G6YEUOTFYHAO	0889082960	402853269	Producing a First-Class Newsletter: A Guide to Planning, Writing, Editing, Designing, Photography, Production, and Printing (Self-Counsel Reference Series)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Ideal for Small Business and Home Office Use!	Producing a First-Class Newsletter written by Barbara Fanson is a helpful guide to assist people to plan, design, write, edit, and produce newsletters.  The contents of this book can be effectively adapted to  produce online newsletters as well!<br />Fanson assists her readers to plan  their own newsletters.  She highlights the different kinds of newsletters  in use today so that her readers can determine for themselves what kind of  publication they need.  She helps them to identify their audiences, to  determine their objectives, and to name their newsletters.  An impressive  listing of popular words associated with newsletter titles is provided to  help her readers come up with a title that will work for them!<br />Important  design considerations are covered in the book.  Readers will pick up on the  use of the grid system and the use of margins, allies, columns, headers,  footers, paragraph styles, type faces, colors, graphics, and photographs.  Sample newsletter designs provided in the book offer some great layout  possibilities. With some solid HTML programming readers will be able to  adapt these ideas for Website and online newsletter use!<br />Fanson offers a  concise newsletter writing course to further guide her readers along.  They  will learn how to write effective headlines, how to develop and write good  content, and use good grammar in the process.  Other considerations  associated with publishing newsletters such as the legalities of  copyrights, trademarks, and citing other works are covered.<br />Fanson offers  her readers valuable assistance.  Every stage from planning to managing  newsletters is covered in adequate detail.  Anyone who can master the  contents of this book can manage to produce a first-class newsletter.  It's  ideal for small business and home office use!	2000-06-28
US	50591946	R18PC9QU8N3DXS	0965866815	895391985	300 Incredible Things for Kids on the Internet	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Perfect Gift for Kids and Their Families!	The Internet has many fun and exiting things for kids and their families to do. Ken Leebow has produced 300 Incredible Things For Kids on the Internet to provide them with many things to do that will educate,  entertain, and otherwise keep them busy exploring the vast sums of  information available online.<br />     This book is a compilation of links  arranged topically. Kids and their families will be able to visit famous  places such as the White House and other government buildings, they will be  able to read up on our Presidents, they will learn some US history, visit  libraries and museums, obtain college entrance information. listen to  music, play games, and do other things.<br />     This Internet directory  makes the perfect gift for kids and their families. It's compact, very easy  to read, and will provide many hours of fun for the entire family. It will  make an excellent gift and promotional give-away at parties, tradeshow  exhibits, and other special functions. The book can also be customized for  any company and organizational promotion!	2000-06-28
US	50591946	R2S5ZJGY4HJ8KQ	047135614X	845570931	Designing Web-Based Training: How to Teach Anyone Anything Anywhere Anytime	Books	5	40	41	N	N	An Excellent Guide For Conducting Web-Based Training!	One of the most innovative and practical uses of the Internet in recent years has been providing what has been called Web-based training (WBT), to a variety of people online. William Horton has written Designing Web-Based  Training to provide us with insight into the immense educational and  training potential that the Web has to offer its users.<br />     Horton  points out many of the benefits of offering WBT: It can save money in  production costs, company employees and college students can save money in  transportation and lodging expenses, course material costs are very low,  course instruction and materials can be made available to all participants  anywhere worldwide at specific times or any time day or night, course  content can be easily updated and broadcasted in a timely manner, and so  on.<br />     Readers receive detailed instructions for establishing their own  training programs. All the necessary ingredients are here, including  guidelines to create local and universal course content, log-on  instructions, course announcement statements, policy statements, survey  pages, course syllabus outlines, virtual classroom instructions, tutorials,  interactive classroom exercises, testing, and contingency plans.<br />      Horton provides guidance for formulating and communicating specific  hardware requirements for virtual learning. Speakers, printers,  microphones, video cameras, scanners, and CD-ROM's and/or DVD players are  standard for most learning environments. Operating systems, software  programs, monitor size, color coverage, screen resolution, and browser  settings involving graphics, cookies, JAVA, ActiveX controls, and page  updating are important considerations that cannot be overlooked.<br />      Horton provides an excellent overall view of Web-based training. The  planning, the creation of content, necessary hardware requirements, and  incorporating new technologies are thoroughly covered. Companies, private  organizations, and schools planing to take their classrooms and courses  online will find this book both motivating and a good starting point from  which to plan their moves. Web developers will find this book to be an  essential guide to assist their clients to get online and produce good  results. Must reading!	2000-06-21
US	50591946	R1YWT2OEQXTCGL	0201700115	288367033	Web Design Essentials (Professional Studio Techniques)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Educational Presentation of this Book is Phenomenal!	Web Design Essentials introduces readers to some of the more advanced features of Adobe's Photoshop, Illustrator, and GoLive programs, and brings together the talents and advice of a number of seasoned  contributors.<br />Readers will receive an advanced education in planning  Websites through the use of flowcharting, optimizing graphics images for  the Web, designing Web navigational graphics and interfaces, creating  animated GIF images and DHTML animations, producing sensational rollovers,  and learning a number of enhanced table, frames, and cascading style sheet  effects.<br />The educational presentation of this book is phenomenal.   Readers are treated to high quality graphic image illustrations, clear and  easy-to-read text, high-resolution screen shots, and excellent layout that  bring out in rich detail the special effects that Photoshop and other  professional-grade programs are capable of producing.<br />This book is  ideally suited for Web savvy professionals and those persons already  capable of handling Photoshop.  The work in this book is stunning and  represents the best in the industry.  Readers who come to grips with the  programs featured in the book should be able to match them after some  practice!	2000-06-21
US	50591946	R1VLAQVZVS4FLD	0471383090	792959472	Email Marketing: Using Email to Reach Your Target Audience and Build Customer Relationships	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Course on Creative and Disciplined E-Mail Marketing!	Veteran writers Jim Sterne and Anthony Priore have written Email Marketing to share with their readers a number of profitable e-mail correspondence design concepts and marketing strategies they can use to effectively  communicate with their intended online audiences.<br />     Readers will learn  about some popular uses of e-mailing such as sending product announcements,  announcing special offers, delivering customer service announcements,  distributing surveys, and pointing intended audiences to Websites and other  resources for further marketing purposes.<br />     Email Marketing features a  broad range of information to assist readers to craft their own e-mail  campaigns. Sample correspondence provided in the book demonstrates how  easily readers can compose e-mail and link up with existing Websites for  maximum marketing impact. Readers will learn about positioning themselves  to arouse the interest of their targeted audiences. The authors cite some  creative key motivators and themes readers can employ to manage customers  to keep them happy, interested, and coming back!<br />     E-mail has  empowered people to communicate online. The authors instruct their readers  to proceed wisely in regards to who they send e-mail to. They adequately  caution readers about sending unsolicited email and provide guidance to  keep them on the good side of most people. They demonstrate some very  legitimate and creative ways to obtain permission to send e-mail, including  doing business with services that supply specially created e-mail lists  targeting people with specific interests.<br />     This book offers a full  course on carrying out creative and disciplined e-mail campaigns that can  be applied to any business, organizational, and personal marketing effort.  Readers will benefit from author experience and other cases studies  provided in the book. Must reading for business use!	2000-06-21
US	50591946	RPWLFBZODEZB4	1551802074	541371387	Writing for the Web (Writers' Edition) (Self-Counsel Writing Series)	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Learn to Craft More Effective Web Communication	Writing for the Web written by Crawford Kilian will assist Web developers and Website content providers to craft better Web communication that will attract the attention of the Websurfing public and increase the likelihood  of producing more favorable results.<br />     Readers will learn that the  Internet has produced different demands in publishing. While cool Web  graphics, video clips, sounds, and creative HTML programming may have their  place in Web development, Kilian believes that the content of HTML - plain  text, has been geatly overlooked. He points out that the real purpose of  publishing on the Web is to publish text to communicate. Other elements of  Website design serve primarily as decorations and have clouded the true  purpose of Web publishing. They can also become distracting and actually  inhibit Web content comprehension.<br />     Kilian encourages his readers to  use the Web for a variety of purposes such as publishing e-zines and  finding employment and he shows readers how they can create Web content  that will get attention.  His emphasis is clearly placed on composing and  displaying text.  Readers will learn the importance of targeting their  specific audiences, how to determine content subject matter, how to  structure and display content for maximum visual impact, how to compose  effective sentences, choosing the right wording, and selecting appropriate  font styles.<br />     This book is a concise guide to Web writing that will  provide readers with ideas and encouragement to advance their own literary  pursuits.  Sample content, writing resources, and the focus on textual  content make this book a good choice to jumpstart a Web-writing career -  perhaps yours! Highly recommended!	2000-06-14
US	50591946	R27ZCS6QPRS6VG	0062516116	977759025	BotGuide : The Internet's Hottest Tools That Work the Web for You	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Should be Called &quot;HotGuide to Online Porn!&quot;	BotGuide - The Internet's Hottest Tools that Work the Web For You, written by Michael Wolff and Peter Rutten, with Ben Greenman, lists hundreds of research and automated tools that can perform a variety of very helpful tasks.  However, pages 231 through 235 offers readers...some descriptions and links to online porn sites...	2000-06-14
US	50591946	R3OQVR5I93Z0NJ	1565926536	719579285	Database Nation: The Death of Privacy in the 21st Century	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Contents of this Book is Chilling!	Simson Garfinkel has written Database Nation to present a comprehensive assessment of the direction technological advances are taking that have already threatened the privacy of American citizens. Threats to our privacy  hit home - they threaten our liberties to voice opposing views, to mount  peaceful protests, to buy and sell, to move about freely without big  brother watching us, and to live our lives as we please without undue  snooping by others.<br />     The book serves as an indictment of the Federal  Government, law enforcement agencies, financial institutions, private  companies, and others who have gained too much control over the lives of  people. Garfinkel provides a historical perspective of technological  developments and demonstrates how easily we have gone down the road of  information gathering. Readers will learn that their privacy is lost when  information about them is being collected and sometimes sold, stolen, and  put to use by others for a variety of purposes.<br />     The contents of this  book is chilling. Are threats of crime and terrorism justification for  power grabs and the surrendering of our civil liberties? Garfinkel provides  case studies to demonstrate the impact technology has had upon our personal  freedoms. He provides revelations about various uses and abuses of  barcoding, fingerprinting, audio and video surveillance systems,  Webcamming, wiretapping, credit reporting, medical record management,  confidentiality, and more.<br />     Readers will learn how the lives of  average American citizens can be turned upside down when errors creep into  IRS tax records and credit bureau reports. People are human and humans make  errors unintentionally, they steal information, and they deliberately  tamper with information for a variety of criminal reasons. Readers would be  shocked to learn that they themselves may have been the victims of undue  scrutiny!<br />     This book should serve as a wake-up call for American  citizens to become more knowledgeable about widespread information  gathering efforts and the potential for harm that could result from its  illegal and unethical use. This is must reading for any person who is  concerned about the direction America is taking - and for those persons who  don't care but should be more concerned about where we are heading!	2000-05-31
US	50591946	R1ZK414GGALS96	0201874849	431454621	Community Building on the Web : Secret Strategies for Successful Online Communities	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Adds a Human Touch to Online Marketing Strategies!	Amy jo Kim has written Community Building on the Web to provide a broader perspective of the concept of community as it applies to the online world. The Internet comprises of millions of people with varying interests and  needs to be met. They tend to group around one another at their favorite  Websites, newsgroups, and chatrooms. They have, in effect, established  their own little online communities according to the dictates of their own  interests.<br />     We have already seen a number of major online enterprises  start to cater to their own members in special ways by structuring their  own communities. Amazon, AOL, eBay, iVillage, Yahoo, and numerous  My-dotcoms are examples of sites that have nurtured community environments  for the benefit of their members. Amy jo Kim offers her readers the  background information they need to successfully establish, operate, and  manage their own online community presences with relative ease.<br />      Readers are taught how to create or re-structure their existing Websites to  meet the perceived community needs of their targeted audiences to achieve  planned marketing objectives. Amy jo Kim offers some outstanding examples  of existing Websites that serve the interests of specific audiences. She  demonstrates throughout her book how easy it is to set up individual  communities by developing themes, raising topics, offering products and  services, encouraging participation and social interaction, offering  feedback channels, and integrating sound marketing principles.<br />      Community Building on the Web will help readers add a human touch to their  online marketing strategies that will help draw new visitors to their  sites, to foster community environments, to inspire trust and confidence,  and to achieve intended objectives. This book will help Web developers,  businesses, and private organizations meet the needs of their own online  communities. Start your own today!	2000-05-31
US	50591946	R3HF75AX2PQWM2	156592388X	688549778	Stopping Spam: Stamping Out Unwanted Email and News Postings	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Offers Serious Solutions to Spamming!	Stopping Spam by Alan Schwartz and Simson Garfinkel (no, not Simon &amp; Garfunkel), provides the background history on the practice know as &quot;spamming&quot;, insight into the potential harm that can be caused by  spamming, and offers readers a textbook approach to handling this egregious  violation of netiquette. They provide case studies, programming solutions,  assistance in responding to spam and junk mail, and legal information that  readers can arm themselves with.<br />     Readers should find quite  intriguing the events that brought the problem of spamming to the  forefront. They will read up on the Canter &amp; Siegel affair, the rise of  Spam King Jeff Slaton, and the expoits of &quot;Spamford&quot; Wallace and  his Cyber Promotions, Inc. outfit. The Cyber Promotions timeline at the  back of the book recounts the major legal events brought on by the efforts  of this one company to legitimatize the practice of spamming. These are all  fascinating accounts that no opposer of spam should miss out on!<br />      Readers will learn how major online services like AOL and CompuServe have  handled incidents of spam. AOL for instance, published their top ten  spammers list which included weight reduction gimmicks, marketing  companies, and not too surprisingly, publishers of pornography. Elaborate  blocking methods were put into place and court challenges filed to prevent  further unauthorized targeting of these and other services.<br />     The  authors provide detailed analysis of e-mail messages to help readers  determine for themselves the origin and/or nature of electronic  correspondence sent to them. This analysis reveals that some spammers will  take elaborate and very unethical measures to send spam and shield their  identities. The authors demonstrate how easily anyone can forge e-mail.<br />      This book offers plenty of resources that readers can access to become  further educated on the matter of spamming. The authors point out that  members ofthe online community have a number of legitimate ways to deal  with it. This book is a good resource guide that anyone concerned about  spamming should obtain. It's good reading!	2000-05-29
US	50591946	R355L32PHCH811	0471381861	443858383	Affiliate Selling: Building Revenue on the Web	Books	5	12	15	N	N	An All-Encompassing Perspective of Affiliate Marketing!	Helmstetter and Metivier offer an all-encompassing perspective of the affiliate marketing industry in their book Affiliate Selling. Readers are introduced to a number of marketing concepts, strategies, and companies  that will get them results. Readers will learn from some of the best people  in the industry, including Amazon.com, one of the premier models of online  affiliate marketing today!<br />     Merchant companies large and small have  set up elaborate partnerships with linking companies and others to market  their products and services. Bags, books, clothing, computers, flowers,  food, music CD's, and toys are among the more popular items marketed  through referral programs today. Readers will learn about affiliate  marketing companies who make a living by bringing merchant companies and  individual Website operators, companies, and organizations together.  BeFree, LinkShare, and Commission Junction are some of the leading  affiliate solution providers cited in the book that readers should know  about.<br />     The readers of this book will learn how they can enhance the  value of their Websites by linking with merchants offering products and  services directly related to their own Website objectives. Consider a pet  store owner linking up with a respected brand of high quality, high-protein  dog food. Travel agencies can team up with manufacturers and distributors  of name brand travel bags and luggage sets. A book reviewer could link up  with an online book dealer to provide quick sales and delivery of books to  his readers at substantial savings over traditional methods of buying  books!<br />     This book offers a great amount of technical help to business  operators and Web developers by demonstrating how easy it is to set up  effective Web page links. Banners, graphics, text, scripts, strategic  placement of logos, and affiliate membership criteria are covered to make  setting up shop easy. Screen shots provide readers with some outstanding  examples of actual Websites that offer various forms and styles of  affiliate linking!<br />     Affiliate marketing through referral programs has  a lot to offer merchants and their affiliates. Prospects are good for them  to generate a lot of money in the years to come. Whether readers are  merchants or prospective affiliates, this book will help them get linked up  with the people they are looking for. The authors cannot guarantee success  but they do a great job of preparing and encouraging their readers. Do you  have what it takes to be the next Amazon.com?	2000-05-29
US	50591946	R2LZZ2JQ7W5NPY	0910965285	507309905	Millennium Intelligence: Understanding and Conducting Competitive Intelligence in the Digital Age	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Merits Serious Consideration!	Millennium Intelligence written by Jerry Miller and his friends at the Business Intelligence Braintrust offers a new look at competitive intelligence and information resources that merits serious  consideration.<br />     This book offers its readers insight into why  companies want to know about each other, what the benefits of such research  are, and how it can best be performed. Some reasons are obvious. Companies  want to remain competitive and want to know what their competitors are  doing. Are their competitors' products and services superior? Are their  products being more economically produced? What are the latest and most  effective marketing strategies? Are their own company secrets safe from  their competitors? The list goes on!<br />     This book serves as a valuable  tool in a number of ways. The authors encourage companies to develop sound  strategies for harvesting business information, they make good arguments  for academics to teach intelligence information gathering, they assist  readers to find, collect, and put to use various sources of information,  and they offer countermeasures necessary to monitor the information  gathering efforts of others.<br />     The authors provide a number of good  resources and strategies for finding business information. Various online  research tools, visiting company Websites, viewing online job listings,  buying and analyzing competitor products, telephone inquiries, and even  going to public libraries can pay off!<br />     While the gathering of  business intelligence information can be carried out strictly for  legitimate personal and business reasons, intelligence gathering operations  can be abused and misused. Readers are presented with all the right reasons  to conduct their research and to represent their companies in an entirely  legal and ethical manner.<br />     The recurring theme of this book is that  business information gathering should recognized as a profession rather  than merely an occupationor job task assigned to company employees. This  field requires professional training, effort, and adequate resources to  develop to its full potential. This book is must reading for any person and  company involved in the gathering of business information - or who should  be and are not presently doing so!	2000-05-29
US	50591946	R2OXPNIKMVWNRB	1576101258	194630361	How to Get Your Dream Job Using the Web	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Out of Print But Not Out of Service!	Many years ago the Internet was created as a means for scientists and the military to communicate with one another. In recent years the Internet has become a means of sharing other forms of communications, including special  interests groups, hobbyists, researchers, and for even conducting business.  Why not use the Internet for finding a job? A number of companies and job  recruiters post job openings and other information concerning employment on  the Internet. How to Get Your Dream Job Using the Web, authored by Shannon  Bounds and Arthur Karl, opens up the resources offered on the Internet for  use by job hunters today.<br />     One of the major strengths of the book,  which is evident as you open it up, are the extensive listings of Websites,  newsgroups, and BBS sites listing current job opportunites and other  employment related information. The reader is introduced to a number of  job-hunting resources, such as online recruiters, job and resume banks, and  professional organizations that will aid those seeking employment.  Well-known corporations such as Intel, Microsoft, NetScape, Novell, Sun  Microsystems, Texas Instruments, and Zenith are listed, providing immediate  access to loads of information on current job openings, qualifications, and  recruiting workshop schedules.<br />     Of special interest to readers, this  publication provides readers with all of the instruction necessary to  produce top-quality home pages, electronic resumes, and cover letters,  along with information on how to effectively post and e-mail them on the  Internet. The authors provide a considerable amount of helpful instruction  on how to produce effective, creative home pages, resumes, and cover  letters that will get results. For example, the authors provide the readers  with tips from top recruiters on what they are looking for in resumes from  prospective employees. A number of online resources are also provided so  that readers can gain insight on how to compose resumestargeting specific  career fields.<br />     The book is accompanied by a CD containing everything  necessary to produce top-notch Websites, resumes, and cover letters. The CD  contains a number of helpful Internet tools, including shareware versions  of popular HTML editors, graphics programs, sound file editors, E-mail,  FTP, and News programs. The CD also contains a generous amount of Web page  clipart, such as arrows, backgrounds, bars, buttons, and other images. With  the wealth of information available on the Internet, those seeking  employment will find this book to be a valuable resource guide. If you are  serious about finding a job, you cannot afford to be without this  book!<br />If you can still find a copy of this book - grab it!	2000-05-24
US	50591946	R3ABOZ0LYJ2HTX	0062516116	977759025	BotGuide : The Internet's Hottest Tools That Work the Web for You	Books	1	1	4	N	N	A Great Book with Some Bad Content!	An otherwise good book was ruined by the inclusion of 4 1/2 pages of so-called adult services.  It's unfortunate that Harper Collins Publishing would allow such content to be featured in a book I otherwise had high  marks for.  It wouldn't have hurt sales the least bit to have left the  stuff out.  I could not and would not recommend this book to others!	2000-05-24
US	50591946	R3SG5P66TCS941	0471288438	513006584	101 Successful Businesses You Can Start on the Internet	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Essential Guide to Starting an Online Business!	It is certainly no secret that the Internet has changed the way people conduct business. Those with products and services to offer have had a whole new world of opportunity opened up to them. Now just about anyone  with a modest investment of time and money, with varying levels of computer  skills and talent, can make their presence known with relative ease.  Another good Internet business book has arrived on the scene that readers  should know about. Daniel Janal, the author of another popular book, The  Online Marketing Handbook, has written another real winner, 101 Businesses  You Can Start on the Internet, with the intent to address the concerns of  those who would like to join the ranks of the Internet business  community.<br />     101 Businesses... is divided into two sections. In the  first section, Janal offers his readers a number of compelling reasons why  one ought to open up shop on the Internet. Some reasons to consider are the  reaching out to a worldwide market, to do business with an affluent market,  no barriers of time zones, being open twenty-four hours a day, beating the  competition to new markets because they are not online, very low startup  costs, and little or no rent payments to make. Janal proceeds to outline  the basics of getting started on the Internet, how to find your way around,  and how to conduct your business. To his credit, Janal is brief and to the  point when he needs to be, saving the greater portion of the book for other  important matters.<br />     The second section of the book, which I consider  to be the heart of the publication, deals with the kind of business  opportunities that exist on the Internet and how some folks have set up  shop. Chapter-by-chapter, Janal discusses a number of creative business  opportunities, such as computer and service-related work, and then provides  solid case studies of those who have braved the waters, so to speak.  Complete with names, addresses, phone numbers, URL's, and Web pages, Janal  provides his readers with the insight that few previous publications have  brought to light. Janal asks a number of penetrating questions of those who  have already set up shop on the Internet that hit right at the heart of  conducting business.<br />     Janal breaks new ground in the direction of  Internet business publications with this book. It is one thing to read  about how to conduct business on the Internet and actually speaking with  those who have been there. According to Janal, we ought to learn from the  experiences of others, whether positive or negative. They have sound advice  to offer! I hope Janal and other writers will continue developing this  trend. Janal's book is well thought out and written. It will help many,  including college students, who want to start their own businesses but who  are in need of the encouragement of others. Put Janal and his case studies  to work for you!	2000-05-24
US	50591946	R3TAPBSR8TRXMM	0028633407	619134819	The Unofficial Guide to Starting a Business Online	Books	5	60	61	N	N	It Will Help You Make the Right Business Decisions!	Many fine books have been published within the last several years on the topic of starting online businesses. Most of them deserve high praise for helping people to get started. One of the better ones in my opinion is  Jason Rich's book, The Unofficial Guide to Starting a Business Online.<br />      This slightly larger-than-pocketsized handbook contains a wealth of solid  business information within its covers. Jason Rich offers a panoramic view  of what it takes to start an online business today. He thoughtfully details  essential matters that will contribute to an effective enterprise. He is  quick to point out steps and facts of information that can save time and  money - two important factors to consider when setting up and operating a  business!<br />     Readers will learn, for instance, that it is not necessary  to register (or pay someone to register), their business Websites with  literally thousands of search engines and other Websites to get noticed.  Rich points out that 90% of the Web surfing public uses the top ten search  engines to find what they are looking for!<br />     Readers planning to set  up shop are provided timely information about selecting and buying computer  equipment, software titles, home office equipment, and necessary supplies.  Web browser plug-ins, Webcamming, streaming audio and video technologies,  and other Web development tools are covered to provide readers with ideas  they should consider incorporating into their business sites to enhance  performance and profitability.<br />     Jason Rich does a commendable job  warning his readers about some of the sham operators who offer those get  rich quick schemes that are nothing more than scams perpetrated upon the  unwary. Rich lists the top 12 scams, according to the FTC, that arrive in  our e-mail boxes on a regular basis, such as the endless number of business  opportunities, multilevel marketing and pyramids, sending bulk e-mail,  chain letters, and those work-at-home schemes that sound too good to be  true!<br />     Readers are treated to the dialog that takes place between  Jason Rich and his team of interviewed guests. Questions asked and answered  involving Web development strategies include Website hosting, ISP's, key  design features, creating and using Web graphics, creating online stores  and catalogs, and software recommendations. Plenty of advertising and  marketing advice is given as well to guide readers. These are not short  answers - they are well thought out and deliver detailed solutions!<br />      This book will help readers lay the groundwork necessary for establishing  their own online businesses, to fine-tune their business plans and online  presence, to effectively promote themselves, and to take advantage of a  variety of resources to launch and maintain successful businesses. It's  must reading for anyone desiring to start an online business. Get a  jump-start with this book today. It will help you make the right business  decisions!	2000-05-23
US	50591946	RPOMU51SXO38U	0966288947	862139527	eBay Online Auction	Books	5	14	14	N	N	eBayola Covers all the Angles of eBay Auctioning!	Neil Salkind and Bruce Frey have written eBay Online Auctions to assist online shoppers to learn about the leading online auction house - eBay. Written in a creative question-and-answer format, the authors cover all the  angles of auctioning to help their readers buy and sell a variety of  products, services, and plenty of other interesting things, including many  hard-to-find and one-of-a-kind items.<br />     Readers will be able to pick  up on a number of essential matters involved in auctioning online at eBay,  such as registering with the service, creating their own private activity  logs, navigating through the Website, learning about buying and selling  merchandise, searching, listing merchandise, adding pictures, bidding  instructions, payment options, using and choosing escrow services, making  arrangements to ship and receive merchandise after sales have taken place,  and taking precautions to avoid experiencing the deadbeat blues!<br />      This book will contribute to more productive participation at eBay. It will  help readers save time, effort, and money as they find their way around  this popular site. The useful glossary at the back highlights special Web  pages and terminology covering general services, features, transaction  options, and other information available at eBay that they should become  familiar with!<br />     Readers on the move won't be burdened down by  carrying this book around away from the home or office. The book's handy  8&quot; x 5&quot; size makes it easy to carry, tuck away, and to have on  hand at a moment's notice. It's a great guide for anyone wanting to learn  about auctioneering at eBay!	2000-05-23
US	50591946	R39VJTEI9AGK75	1565922824	927958500	Information Architecture for the World Wide Web: Designing Large-scale Web Sites	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Web Development Requires a Solid Foundation!	Today many Website design technologies and rigid content requirements have made Web development a more demanding task. Although there are many fine Website design books around to assist Webmasters, a return to the basics of  design layout is in serious order.<br />     Information Architecture for the  World Wide Web offers readers the guidance they need to design Websites  that are easy to manage, navigate, and expand as mission requirements  change. Rather than discussing strict HTML and Web graphics design, the  authors focus upon the actual mapping out of Websites to insure that they  are properly structured and will deliver content in an efficient and  orderly manner.<br />     Rosenfeld and Morville outline the main job tasks of  the information architect and the disciplinary background they should  possess or cultivate. They cite backgrounds in library science, journalism,  engineering, marketing, graphics design, and computer science as essential  disciplines to be embraced. When brought together and put into practice  they will perform important roles in developing an eye and mindset for  successful Web development.<br />     The authors discuss important Website  design considerations such as the productive use of screen real estate,  navigational bars, frames, pull-down menus, and other features that can be  employed to effectively deliver Website content. Although this line of  instruction is not the main emphasis of the book, the brief addressing of  these features assist readers to gain added perspective of the overall  strategy of delivering, you guessed it, Web content!<br />     Readers are  instructed to perform thorough research to determine answers to questions  such as: What are the goals? What can your clients afford? Who are the  intended audiences? Why will people visit a site? What types of content  should and should not be part of the site? Answers to these and other  questions should be determining factors throughout the entire Web  development process.<br />     Readers will find the discussions involving  brainstorming extremely helpful. This activity should be of major concern  during the Web development process. The use of boards, flipcharts, mockups,  design sketches, developing prototypes, metaphor exploration, creating  scenarios, and structured blueprints can greatly enhance the entire  development process.<br />     Reading this book will be for many a refreshing  and stimulating experience. Readers will gain valuable behind-the-scenes  insight necessary to successfully design Websites that not only look good  but perform well to achieve intended goals. Good HTML, programming language  scripts, and flashy Web graphics are not enough. Pick up some solid  visionary thinking skills. Highly recommended!	2000-05-23
US	50591946	R1S2KOIZBKIS7O	0966103254	842072209	Poor Richard's E-mail Publishing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Offers a Fresh and Exciting Perspective of E-mailing!	Poor Richard's E-mail Publishing written by Chris Pirillo offers a fresh and exciting perspective of e-mailing that deserves our serious attention. Pirillo sets forth many compelling arguments for e-mail being oftentimes a  superior form of marketing than elaborate Websites and newsgroup  participation. He demonstrates throughout the book that members of the  online community can share a variety of topic information with other  persons online through this medium.<br />     Pirillo provides his readers  with many fine examples of how e-mail can be used to provide instant  publishing of information for a variety of reasons. Forms of e-mail  publishing (e-publishing), discussed in the book includes special  announcements, bulletins, discussion lists, newsletters, and press  releases. These forms of communication can serve individuals,  organizations, and companies in a variety of ways, such as keeping others  informed of news, alerting them of problems, calling them to action,  selling them a variety of merchandise, and pointing them to existing  Websites for further information on any given matter.<br />     If we stop to  consider just how many times we have received software update announcements  from companies (I get plenty), online newsletters from special interest  groups (I get a law newsletter), and news about new products from companies  we do business with (I get new book lists from publishers), we can see that  e-publishing can become a powerful marketing tool for any business,  organization, or person.<br />     Pirillo spends a generous amount of time  guiding his readers through the processes of creating newsletters and  discussion lists, perhaps the two most popular forms of e-publishing. He  advises his readers on many of the do's and don'ts of creating, managing,  and promoting them. Coverage includes developing content, formatting,  linking, advertising, partnering with others, and handling problem people  who would abuse these broadcast mediums.<br />     Readers will learn from the  personal examples provided in the book on how e-publishing can greatly  benefit them. Pirillo suggests viewing a variety of newsletters and he  provides a directory of e-publications at the back of the book for easy  reference. These will suit the tastes of a wide range of personal interests  and are representative of the kinds of publications we can create  ourselves. He also provides listings of recommended software programs and  services to get his readers up and running.<br />     This book is highly  recommended for anyone desiring to promote an online or off-line business,  a non-profit organization, or who simply want to share information about a  particular topic. This book is easy to read, it's packed and highly  informative, and it will enhance one's marketing efforts!	2000-04-27
US	50591946	R26MSKK1O4AQ6E	0764506889	595837013	Starting an Online Business For Dummies	Books	5	119	133	N	N	Offers the Right Stuff to Get Online &amp; Noticed!	Starting an Online Business for Dummies offers readers the right stuff they need to get online, to get noticed, and to remain competitive in today's highly competitive online business world. Readers will pick up on a  number of important business development concepts, Website design  considerations, and marketing strategies. They will also learn that the  Internet is a cost-effective way to let others know about the products and  services they have to offer!<br />     Website design considerations featured  in the book includes developing content, establishing a graphic identity,  offering features like guestbooks and discussion groups, setting up sites  to handle secure sales, providing various payment and shipping options,  providing customer service, and becoming a resource for customers. Greg  Holden points out that business people can attract prospective customers to  their sites by offering important information, products, services, and  features free of charge that will not only enhance the appearance and  functionality of a Website but may also end up enhancing one's  bottomline!<br />     When it comes to marketing, Holden provides realistic  and easy to use marketing strategies and advice developed to draw  attention. Readers will learn about starting their own newsletters, using  newsgroups and mailing lists, holding contests, establishing business  partnerships, exchanging links, placing banner ads, and using meta tags to  attract the attention of search engines!<br />     Other important online  business considerations covered in the book includes Website security,  legal matters, trademarks, copyrighting, taxes, and record keeping. Holden  offers instruction and advice on these and other matters and directs his  readers to Websites where they can find further information. A 32-page  &quot;yellow pages&quot; Internet directory is included in the book to give  readers a jump-start on finding good online resources!<br />     The CD that  accompanies the book is loaded with the latest trialware editions of  popular programs such as Paint Shop Pro, HotDog Pro, Norton Utilities 2000,  Internet Explorer, Netscape Communicator, and the Adobe Acrobat Reader. A  bunch of business programs are included as well to help businesses get up  and running quickly!<br />     Starting an Online Business for Dummies offers  readers an excellent introduction to the art and science of setting up an  online business. Every major aspect of starting a business is covered in  adequate detail to help someone get started. Get a copy of this book and  experience the thrill of operating your own online business - it can be  very rewarding for you!	2000-04-26
US	50591946	R2TV6GS1ZRQDR2	0395908752	287727508	Mastering Guerrilla Marketing: 100 Profit-Producing Insights That You Can Take to the Bank	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Provides a Broader Picture of the Entire Marketing World!	Jay Conrad Levinson wrote Mastering Guerrilla Marketing to reinforce basic marketing principles that are necessary to carry out any kind of effective campaign. While there is certainly nothing new about the principles  outlined in his book, Levinson's approach is fresh, focused, compassionate,  and his methods of reinforcing them will spark the imaginations of his  readers to help them generate their own creative marketing ideas!<br />      Levinson addresses and expands upon the most critical areas of marketing:  planning, weaponry, media, online marketing, direct response, people,  attitudes, technology, economizing, creativity, and action. Each of these  areas are discussed in a manner that results in positive reader response in  areas of personal growth, learning, and changes in perspective that will  make them more successful marketers!<br />     This a book of action -  marketing action. Readers will be challenged to re-evaluate their present  marketing strategies and establish new ways of carrying out their efforts.  This book offers readers plenty of encouragement to press on to meet their  goals, it will generate enthusiasm to get them more involved in their work,  it will forge determination to succeed, and it will help them see the  broader picture of the marketing world. Highly recommended!	2000-03-24
US	50591946	R1L50L761DGGVJ	0201606003	399806256	Effective Web Animation: Advanced Techniques for the Web	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Provides a New Look at Incorporating Animated Imagery	J.Scott Hamlin is on the cutting edge of Web graphics design and his book Effective Web Animation offers a new look and fresh approach to incorporating animated imagery. According to Hamlin serious Web graphics  design goes far beyond the simple GIF animations of poorer quality and  performance that just about anyone can create. Image size, color quality,  interactivity, accompanying audio, and faster delivery over the Internet  are factors that have led to new Web animation technologies. Are we ready  to face them?<br />     Hamlin lays a foundation for Web animation on the  professional level for serious minded Web designers who must face new  graphic design consideration demands. Hamlin offers detailed instruction  involving the use of JavaScript, Photoshop, and Macromedia Flash and the  results are phenomenal. This book contains many well-planned and  beautifully designed graphic images and the tips and advanced techniques  necessary to create comparable results. The accompanying CD features sample  code, animations, demoware, and tutorials for further instruction  opportunities.<br />     Web animation is making a comeback and Web graphics  design has become serious business. Hamlin's contribution in the form of  this book is essential for those designers who want to graduate to a higher  level of Web design mastery and income. Clients are wising up to the many  Web technologies available to them and are becoming more discerning about  how they spend their advertising dollars. Don't be left behind. Consider  animating your Web creations today. This is must reading!	2000-03-24
US	50591946	R3KQ54RG4VOPW5	0471348279	324618840	Global Solutions for Multilingual Applications: Real-World Techniques for Developers and Designers	Books	5	16	23	N	N	This Book Seriously Addresses Language &amp; Translation Issues!	Chris Ott has written Global Solutions for Multilingual Applications to encourage businesses, Webmasters, and IT managers to develop Website strategies that will address language and translation issues. Considering  the number International sites that have gone online, many companies may  find it wise to represent themselves online in such a manner that will  effectively communicate to a variety of language and cultural groups. The  results could be phenomenal!<br />     This book addresses a number of issues  specifically related to multilingual communication such as selective  browser use, e-mail communication, multi-language word processors, using  special font and character sets, international Web graphic image  considerations, global writing, avoiding local or national assumptions such  as addresses, and the pros and cons of creating either static or dynamic  Websites.<br />     Very few books discuss the matter of international and  multilingual communications in as great detail as this one. There is no  doubt that the world has been drawn closer together as the result of  Internet access. Sooner or later changes will take place to facilitate  unhindered global communications online. This book is must reading for  those persons who want to begin making this possible now!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	R35WACDOX8BIGO	0910965307	418818265	Net Curriculum: An Educators Guide to Using the Internet	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Offers Great Online Educational Opportunities!	The Internet has opened up a number of educational opportunities in recent years that have allowed parents, teachers, and students the opportunity to take advantage of a great wealth of information. Linda Joseph has written  Net Curriculum to provide her readers a glimpse of what the online world  has to offer in the way of educational opportunities.<br />     A number of  Websites have sprung up offering a variety of educational assistance. Many  target specific ages and grades and others meet specific educational  objectives. Linda Joseph presents her readers with a broad range of  educational Website categories. Topically listed Websites cover art,  biographies, geography, government, history, immigration, law, math, music,  science, social studies, writing, and more!<br />     Other helpful Websites  listed in the book offer readers access to actual lesson ideas and  activities, many of which educators and children alike will find quite  interesting. Viewing from the lenses of live video cams, viewing Civil War  photographs, visiting online museums and art galleries, publishing news and  stories online, and sending Web postcards are some of the activities  featured in the book!<br />     Linda Joseph offers her readers basic  information on getting connected, accessing online information, sharing  information with others, Web publishing, student safety, copyright  infringement, fair use, and acceptable use issues. Readers will learn the  basic principles of Web design while creating their own school Website!<br />      This book is ideal for home school and public school teachers, parents,  and Web developers who are looking for answers on how to make use of  Internet technology to broaden the scope of available educational  materials. There is an abundance of resources online and Linda Joseph has  opened the door for accessing much of it!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	R13MHBSU2SHJSH	0201433311	379463024	Collaborative Web Development: Strategies and Best Practices for Web Teams	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Recommended for any Web Design &amp; Consulting Business!	Jessica Burdman has written Collaborative Web Development to assist companies to establish a team concept of Web development. She offers a sound blueprint for Web development that will allow a number of creative  individuals to make their own contributions and for companies to better  manage every stage of development from beginning to end.<br />     Burdman  lays down a solid foundation for establishing a serious Web development  team. She identifies key team members and their individual  responsibilities, she will assist project managers to break down and assign  specific project responsibilities, and she will help companies to better  manage their people and business policies. Burdman offers noteworthy advice  on handling client matters such as payments, their involvement in the  Website design process, dealing with roadblocks, thorny issues, and meeting  deadlines.<br />     A central theme emphasized throughout the book is good  communication at all levels of development. Burdman will assist companies  large and small to work through the many issues they will face, including  many that will stretch their patience thin. The accompanying CD contains a  number of helpful demoware development programs and other essential tools  to meet a variety of Web development needs. Highly recommended for any Web  design and consulting business environment!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	RLR1R4853G45F	0764505858	975153279	MP3 For Dummies	Books	5	49	51	N	N	A Great Book for the MP3 Community!	Andy Rathbone has written a fine book for MP3 devotees, MP3 for Dummies, that provides the very basic of information that people need to get started on this fast booming craze. Rathbone offers his readers an extraordinary  amount of information that the average person on the street can make use  of.<br />     MP3 has become hot news! Websites have opened up for business  and offer the latest files, players and programs are being produced, the  number of court cases involving copyright infringement are on the rise, one  local university has blocked student access to one file distribution site  due to bandwidth problems, and yes, some books have been written on the  subject.<br />     MP3 for Dummies provides detailed information about buying,  downloading, creating, sharing, and selling MP3 files. Readers will learn  about a number of places where they can buy and download MP3 files and  where they can have customized CD's created for distribution. Readers also  have the opportunity to create their own CD's provided that they have the  right equipment to do so.<br />     Speaking of equipment, readers will learn  about the latest and the best MP3 players and storage devices on the  market. Furthermore, they will be able to choose and use portable MP3  players and learn how to hook them up to home, office, and car stereo  equipment for easy listening!<br />     Other helpful information in the book  includes the debunking of certain MP3 copyright and piracy myths, choosing  and using MP3 utilities, finding Websites that distribute MP3 files,  learning how to compose your own kind of music, and a variety of tips. The  accompanying CD contains Windows, Linux, and Mac shareware versions of  popular MP3 players, a bunch of MP3 sample tunes, and live links to  Websites that distribute MP3 files!<br />     The information in this book is  first-rate! The cartoons, humor, and wit are great too! Readers will learn  to experience the cool sounds of MP3 and chuckle at the sametime! The book  will also contribute to their better understanding and appreciation for Web  development and computer technology. This is a great beginner book for the  MP3 community!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	R1XARUE65P8JL3	1885068379	211618236	101 Ways to Promote Your Web site: How to Attract More Visitors to Your Web Site	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Goldmine of Promotion Ideas Worth Digging For!	With the number of Websites online today many people are seeking ways to improve the likelihood that their own sites will get better noticed. Susan Sweeney has written 101 Ways to Promote Your Web Site to encourage Web  developers, businesses, and others to develop and launch effective  marketing campaigns to get themselves noticed.<br />  Within the covers of  this book Sweeney offers a number of sound ideas and strategies that will  improve the chances for any Website to become better publicized. Readers  will quickly pick up on some essential Website design ideas, how to  effectively use search tools, and how to make use of newsgroups, e-mail,  mail lists, ezines, and other forms of online communication.<br />  Sweeney  will assist her readers to develop sound linking strategies to draw  visitors from other sites. She discusses the use of banners and the use  signature files at the end of e-mail and newsgroup messages to draw further  attention. She also offers some very interesting and creative ways to keep  people coming back time after time again!<br />  The book features a number  of helpful tips, techniques, and resources that will aide in Website  designing, marketing, and offline promotion. Additional expert advice on a  variety of topics and book updates are only keystrokes away at the  companion Website. Web developers, business owners, ad agencies, and  consultants will find this book to be a goldmine of ideas worth digging for  that will pay huge dividends in terms of recognition!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	RYE8Q1UUL6CUK	076152505X	476708507	Electrify Your Web Site in a Weekend (In a Weekend (Premier Press))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Get Better Noticed Today the Electrified Way!	Electrify Your Web Site in a Weekend was written to help Website designers and Website owners to add real life and character to any Website to get them noticed fast and easy. Author Paul Bodensiek offers his readers a  number of brilliant ideas that will turn so-so sites into noticed sites.  This book features a variety of cool Website design features such as sound  files, graphics, JAVA and JAVA Script programming, tables, frames, style  sheets, strategic positioning of images, text, and links, and much much  more!<br />     The author includes some very fine published resources for  additional Website design ideas. Readers should take full advantage of them  to learn about other exciting possibilities that await them. The  accompanying CD offers shareware versions of some very popular Web  development programs that will help readers create and edit graphic images  and sound files, and upload Website files to their servers.<br />     With  this book on hand and put to good use readers can enhance their online  presence with little effort in no time at all. For the modest cost of this  book readers will get results. This book is ideal for beginners and small  business operators who want to look better online. Get better noticed today  the electrified way!	2000-02-23
US	50591946	RHLLA3YYELTBJ	0072121858	3003178	Internet Kids & Family Yellow Pages, Millennium Edition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Great Online Discovery &amp; Learning Guide!	The Internet offers an immense wealth of information on a growing range of topics. Websites spring up every day to offer the world of online users something new or re-packaged to digest! Many Internet directories do a good  job of providing links and an assortment of helpful information.<br />     The  Internet Kids &amp; Family Yellow Pages directory is geared towards kids  and those families who don't want to be hit by an onslaught of social  problems and so-called adult materials online. This directory provides  Website information about a variety of sites that offer important  educational topics such as math, history, geography, other academic  subjects, and a number of other interesting topics that will create a  deep-rooted interest in searching online.<br />     Readers young and old(er)  alike will be able to access information online about animals, art, buried  treasures, computers, food, foreign countries, history, insects,  interesting facts, the Internet, kings and queens, music, scouting, ships  and shipwrecks, space missions, sports history, toys, transportation,  weather, and much much more!<br />     The author and her staff provide a good  summary description of each site mentioned in the book and they creatively  relate topics of interest and increase the desire of their readers to dig  deeper in their online researching. I even learned a few things myself and  I don't even have a wife and kids! The accompanying CD features an  electronic version of the book and some trial online safety software!<br />      As with all child-age educational materials, parents should become  seriously and creatively involved with the upbringing of their kids. They  need to know what they are being taught today as fact and fiction. They  should oversee the online research process to protect their children from  various online traps, including errant information posted online as fact.  Some of the topics discussed in this book are open for debate and differing  opinions do exist. Nonetheless, this is a great kid and family guide and a  good starting point for online learning and discovery!	2000-02-01
US	50591946	RCTDWKWX5BG8X	078972314X	659346420	Harley Hahn's Read Me First Guide to the Internet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Handy Gift and Pocket Guide!	The year 2000 promises to be another spectacular year for online membership growth. More and more folks are flocking to buy computers, signing up through online services, and preparing to checkout the online  scene. There are plenty of resources and activities for everyone but many  folks would still appreciate and may need a helping hand.<br />     Harley  Hahn has written a cute little book, Harley Hahn's Readme First Guide to  the Internet, to provide some very brief but helpful guidance before going  online. Some information about the Internet and how it works, a little  something about Internet addresses, using e-mail and Web browsers, and some  online safety concerns are covered. The information is very brief, basic,  easy to read, and understandable. It has been conveniently packaged for  people on the move. Checkout Harley's Harley Hahn Teaches the Internet for  detailed instruction that couldn't be squeezed into this book!<br />     This  book measures a mere 4&quot; x 4&quot; x 5/16&quot; and would make an ideal  gift for many occasions. In fact, given its small size, it would make an  excellent promotional give-away item at special events such as parties,  conventions, and conferences. It's not as detailed as books costing from  two to five times its cost but you get what you pay for. Put some money  into Harley's pocket and slide this little book into yours or someone  else's today!	2000-02-01
US	50591946	R20U2VBN2DHJ1W	0072122900	806098594	I Want My MP3!: How to Download, Rip, & Play Digital Music	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Learn More about this Booming Technology!	MP3 is the latest technology developed for the downloading and playing of music on personal computers today. It has also opened the door for lots of people to access, play, create, and affordably distribute their own music  to others.<br />     Bill Mann has written I Want My MP3 to encourage  computer-savvy readers to take advantage of this new and exciting  technology. The book covers a broad and thoughtfully interwoven range of  topics related to MP3 technology, such as obtaining and using MP3 and  utility programs, buying MP3 players for the home, office, and car,  accessing and downloading sound files from online services, buying MP3  music online, creating your own kind of music, and sharing music (legally)  with others!<br />     This book offers a wealth of online resources for  readers to obtain MP3 music files. A number of MP3 online music services,  libraries, and search engines are discussed to help readers find the tunes  and special effects they want. Is your computer able to handle MP3? Bill  Mann provides readers with the insight they need to upgrade their own  equipment to handle MP3 technology, including the installation and use of  CD burners which have made the sharing of computer data a much simpler and  affordable task!<br />     MP3 may not be for everyone but I did happen to  find the MP3 files included on the accompanying CD simply breath-taking.  It's amazing how these files can be stored and accessed online. Convenient  distribution has made this file format big business for a lot of people.  Professional musicians, music buffs, computer hobbyists, and Web developers  should learn more about this booming technology and put it to use.<br />      This book is easy to read and follow along. It is highly recommended.  Consider subscribing to some of the online newsgroups, mailing lists, and  newsletters featured in the book for further educational experience.  Readers are cautioned to avoid Websites offering suspected unlawful  distribution ofmusic files and the availability of other illegal content!	2000-02-01
US	50591946	R3I78JZ6MZBRB9	0072119772	644627647	HTML: The Complete Reference	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Add Improved Functionality to any Website!	There are still some folks around like myself who prefer to design Websites and pages using raw HTML &quot;coding.&quot; Windows Notepad is still my top HTML editor of choice. However, whether folks prefer to  &quot;code their own&quot; or use standard HTML editing programs, there are  clear advantages of becoming familiar with the basics of HTML programming  that will pay dividends in the long run. Not all HTML editors are created  equal and sometimes inside knowledge is helpful in the Web development  process.<br />     HTML: The Complete Reference is a huge 2 1/4 - inch book  packed with helpful and important HTML Web design information. Here readers  will take in a broad scope of Website programming features that will  improve, freshen up, and add functionality to any Website. Learn how to use  fonts, colors, backgrounds, frames, tables, layers, style sheets,  client-side programming, plug-ins, audio and video clips, and more. Plenty  of scripting examples are provided to permit immediate results in the  Website design process.<br />     This reference book includes all the latest  tags, Web browser and programming compatibility considerations, and  background information needed to produce outstanding Websites. The book  reads better as a reference guide than a novel. However, one can learn  quite a bit by simply thumbing through it on a casual basis. A particular  Web design feature could leap out from a page and arouse interest that  could lead to a great design idea!<br />     This book recommended for  experienced programmers only, who are well acquainted with the in's and  out's of Web design concepts. It's a great reference book to have on hand  when a programming matter arises or when some changes must take place to  liven things up!	2000-02-01
US	50591946	R3NX2ECZUG1SMD	0910965315	279787714	Design Wise: A Guide for Evaluating the Interface Design of Information Resources	Books	5	3	12	N	N	Provides a New Approach to Information Sharing Development!	The Internet has become a leading source for all kinds of information. Government agencies, companies, organizations, schools, libraries, hobbyists, and others have placed just about anything and everything  online. In doing so many have neglected the ease of which people searching  online can find and access what they are looking for at the millions of  Websites that adorn cyberspace.<br />     Design Wise written by Alison Head  addresses the need to evaluate and re-think the way Websites are designed  in order to allow quick and easy access to the information provided by  them. User-interface, navigation design, structure, and overall interaction  should contribute to more effective accessing of information, not impede  it. These matters require serious attention.<br />     Head offers an  insightful look into the world of software and Web development and delivers  her own assessments for the need of change and future direction that may  take place. Input from industry leaders, news about current trends in  information sharing technology, actual case studies, her tips and  recommended guidelines, and the question &amp; answer format contribute to  a very fine treatment of information sharing development.<br />     With the  flood of information resources available online and the move in direction  to search for information online, providers of information who have set up  Websites, databases, and search engines should take heed to Head's advice  and begin creating resources that are more user-centered in design. This  approach would allow people to quickly and easily find their way around and  obtain the information they are looking for. All will benefit from the  fresh ideas and concepts presented in this book!	1999-12-07
US	50591946	R1BSYEK2RAJJGF	0789720930	55614699	Harley Hahn Teaches the Internet (2nd Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This is a Solid Internet Educational Guide!	Harley Hahn has updated his book, Harley Hahn Teaches the Internet, to provide his readers with an instructional guide about the use of today's computer and Internet technology. More than merely a primer, this book  brings to light and together all the essential information the average  person needs to get online and to become a more active and productive  participant in the online community.<br />     Hahn discusses a broad range of  topics related to the use of the Internet. He covers computer and Internet  terminology, online connection services and options including Web TV and  DSL, the operation and use of popular Web browsers and other related Web  programs, he offers insightful information about the selection and use of  domain names, using e-mail at home and away, understanding of the  significance and use of Internet addresses, using search engines,  conducting online research, talking with other people online, online safety  concerns, and a host of other online issues.<br />     Of special interest to  his readers, Hahn offers pointers about downloading software programs off  the Internet and installing them. This is an important concern in light of  the recent trend of manufacturers to market and distribute their own  software online. Plenty of resources are offered to get people online and  ready to create Webpages and to download clipart, MP3 music files, sounds,  HTML editors, Web browsers, compression programs, and other essential  programs! Hahn provides one of the better glossaries available today for a  book this size - 27 pages in length! A sampler directory of Websites is  included as well!<br />     Internet businesses, students in the classroom,  and others will appreciate Hahn's attention to detail given to make  productive use of the Internet. Readers will glean fresh understanding,  develop their own online strategies, and come away with greater  appreciation and knowledge of how things work and what the Internet can  accomplish for them. This is a solid educational tool!	1999-12-07
US	50591946	R250R2H1NX7ETY	1564143694	344191529	Online Business Planning: How to Create a Better Business Plan Using the Internet, Including a Complete, Up-To-Date Resource Guide	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A Great Business Plan &amp; Online Resource Guide!	The Internet offers many people the opportunity to set up a business and to make a living. Lots of great information is available online that will assist would-be business operators to get up and running. Online Business  Planning by Robert Gorman addresses many of the business planning needs  faced today.<br />     Gorman offers good coverage of what it takes to draw up  an effective business plan that can be used to meet a variety of business  needs. According to Gorman, a good business plan should cover items such as  a description of your business, information about the products and services  you have to offer, industry and market analysis, customer information,  marketing strategies, company personnel, information about the competition,  and finances. Gorman will take his readers through the entire plan-writing  process. Plenty of samples are provided in the book to put readers on the  right track!<br />     Gorman provides his readers with a number of online  resources that will be of great help to them. Business plan resources,  business management, contract workers, obtaining loans, legal guidance,  pricing advice, location selection, marketing strategies, market research,  industry research, dealing with competition, and other matters are also  covered. Even if someone isn't interested in developing a business plan the  links are still great. These online resources are worth the cost of the  book alone!<br />     Gorman offers good business information and access to  plenty of online help. The companies featured in the book are among the  most respected in their industries and readers should take advantage of  their business expertise. This is a good business guide to have on hand!	1999-12-07
US	50591946	R3ST260YSXK63Z	0910965269	939198197	The Extreme Searcher's Guide to Web Search Engines: A Handbook for the Serious Searcher	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Makes Finding Information Online a Much Easier Task!	The availability of a lot of information on the Internet has made finding specific information a more difficult task to accomplish. Unless someone knows were to find something online they must make use of existing tools to  find it. A number of elaborate search engine tools were created with this  one goal in mind.<br />     Randolph Hock has written The Extreme Searcher's  Guide to Web Search Engines to provide us with helpful insight into how  existing search engines can be put to use to help researchers find specific  information online. A number of these search engines have been around for a  while and have seen much use, but time, effort, and money can be saved by  becoming more familiar with the major ones and using those that will get  the job done!<br />     This book covers the operation and use of major search  engines such as Alta Vista, Excite, HotBot, Infoseek, Internet Sleuth,  Lycos, Northern Light, WebCrawler, Yahoo, and others. Readers will find out  that there are not only search engines that search the 'Net, but search  engines that search multiple search engines themselves! Some of these are  covered in the book as well!<br />     Readers are introduced to each search  engine covered in the book. Screen shots, entry fields, and information  about special functions and use are provided. They will learn how each  search engine operates and how they should be put to the best possible use.  They are compared with one another and the author offers his own opinion of  the strengths and weaknesses of each one. Readers are left to determine  which search engines are best suited for their own particular needs. An  accompanying Website provides updated information at their fingertips!<br />      The book is ideally suited for professional researchers, students,  businesses, and libraries. It can be read from cover-to-cover or opened up  at any particular place as special needs arise. It is thoughtfully written  and very readable. It will make finding information online a much easier  and more enjoyable task!	1999-12-07
US	50591946	R2WT4DVTHIOE3S	1841120618	136817903	Business the Amazon.com Way:  Secrets of the Worlds Most Astonishing Web Business	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Could Your Company be the Next Amazon.com?	Amazon.com, perhaps best known for its highly effective and popular affiliate marketing program, has achieved much success during its short time in business. It has grown from a Web-based start-up in 1995 to become  one of the most influential businesses in history.<br />     Rebecca Saunders  has taken the time to provide us with a behind-the-scenes look at the  day-to-day operations of Amazon.com. She provides some background on the  people who own and run it and offers some of the major reasons why this  company has prospered in so little time. She offers her readers  &quot;secrets&quot; of how this company has achieved its much heralded  success within the membership of the online community. Readers will learn  how they can harness some of the successful strategies that has made  Amazon.com a household name.<br />     For a company that has yet to turn a  profit, Amazon.com under the direction of Jeff Bezos has put into place  some mighty sound principles for conducting business that others should  nonetheless pay close attention to, such as having a strong focus. Having a  clear purpose, goals, and laying a foundation for the future are essential  for the survival of any company.<br />     It won't take readers long to  notice that Amazon.com pays close attention to other details. Consider  areas such as promoting a sense of community, learning to know about your  customers, building customer satisfaction, providing safe and timely  delivery of products, keeping promises (where have we heard this before?),  name branding, Website domain name selection, Web development, and saving  money.<br />     Could your company be the next Amazon.com? You won't know  without learning from among the best in the business world. This book is  packed with a lot of insight that will lead any business in the right  direction. They will benefit from sound advice and a clearly written  outlined text that reads quickly and is easy to understand. Readers will  enjoy this concise yetrevealing look at this giant Web-based company. This  book will provide readers with what it takes to succeed in any business!	1999-12-07
